Suppliers Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Supply to energize Be part of supplying the world Connecting demand and supply Together with our suppliers, we rely on a competitive and transparent global supply chain that we continuously develop and optimize to generate affordable, reliable, and clean energy. Our goal is to create value from initial design to market execution. Our actions are consistently focused on the pursuit of productivity, quality, availability and digitalization. In all our activities, we are committed to a sustainable and respectful use of resources. We value diversity and safety for our employees and for everyone who contributes to our supply chain. ~ 16 bn euro annual purchasing volume ~ 3,000 procurement employees ~ 25,000 suppliers worldwide 100 % climate neutral by 2030 “ A strong and trusting relationship with our suppliers is essential for making the energy transition happen. We value partnerships, and together we aim to create long-term and mutually beneficial relationships where reliability, openness, and performance play an important role. Barbara Buttinger Senior Vice President Strategic Procurement Collaboration Partnering with us means being part of our supply chain management that fully exploits the potential of global purchasing markets while ensuring reliable end-to-end supply chains. Together, we contribute to business success and create competitive advantages. Explore more Document pool As diverse as our products and solutions are, so are our supplier information and requirements. Depending on the country, region, or location, the requirements for ordering or purchasing may vary. We have compiled an overview of all necessary specifications. Explore more Supply chain finance Designed specifically for selected suppliers, our multi-bank financing program is a highly cost-effective way for suppliers to convert 100% of the value of their receivables into non-recourse cash at a very attractive discount rate. Explore more Supplier portal Various IT applications and programs are an integral part of our ordering processes. They increase efficiency and transparency and make collaboration with our suppliers even faster, simpler, and more efficient. Explore more Sustainability in the supply chain Sustainability is our guiding principle, supporting us in our day-to-day work and ensuring our long-term growth. Through sustainable development we make our contribution to a more equitable global economy and provide energy-efficient, durable products and solutions for our customers. Explore more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025