Legal Cookie Notice Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Cookie Notice Status: December 2021 This Cookie Policy applies to the websites accessible under “siemens-energy.com” (the “website”). This website uses cookies. Cookies are small files containing certain information that are stored on your device. Cookies are served either by Siemens Energy AG (“Siemens Energy”) – so-called “first party cookies” – or by third parties providing services to Siemens Energy; such cookies are referred to as “third party cookies”. Cookies are necessary to provide certain functionalities on a website, e.g. to maintain a language choice made by a user. Moreover, cookies enable the respective issuer (Siemens Energy or a third party) to recognize that the website was previously called up by a certain end device, allowing the identification of returning visitors (or rather their end devices) and gathering information about their usage of the website and their presumed interests. This information is used to improve the website and to deliver relevant advertisement for Siemens Energy products and services on the website as well as on third party sites. Cookies can be assigned to four categories, depending on their function and intended purpose: absolutely necessary cookies, performance cookies, functionality cookies, and marketing cookies. Strictly Necessary Cookies These cookies are essential in order to enable you to move around the website and use its features, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. Without these cookies, services requested through usage of our website cannot be properly provided. Strictly necessary cookies do not require consent from the user under applicable law. You may configure your web browser to block strictly necessary cookies, but you might then not be able to use the website’s functionalities as intended. To the extent that information processed in connection with strictly necessary cookies should qualify as personal data in a given case, the legal ground for that processing is Siemens Energy's legitimate interest to operate the website. Performance Cookies These cookies collect information about how visitors use a website, for instance which pages visitors go to most often, and how visitors move around the site. They help us to better understand a user’s behavior on our webpage. This is necessary to improve the user friendliness of a website and therefore enhance the user’s experience. Further information collected by performance cookies may include e.g.: internet browser and operating system used, the domain name of the website which you previously visited, the number of visits, average duration of visit, and pages called up. In general, the information collected by these cookies is aggregated and can normally not be linked to a specific natural person. However, in certain cases the collected information can be linked to you directly (provided you disclosed your identity to Siemens Energy, e.g., when creating an account or filing a request with us). To the extent that information processed in connection with performance cookies can, in a given case, be directly linked to you or otherwise qualifies as personal data, the legal ground for that processing is your user consent. Functionality Cookies These cookies allow the website to remember choices you make or information you enter (such as your username, language or the region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personal features. They are also used to enable requested functions such as playing videos. To the extent that information processed in connection with functionality cookies should, in a given case, qualify as personal data, the legal ground for that processing is the user’s consent. Marketing Cookies Marketing cookies (also referred to as targeting or advertising cookies) are used to deliver adverts on third party websites more relevant to you and your interests. They are also used to limit the number of times you see an advertisement as well as help measure the effectiveness of an advertising campaign. Legal basis for the processing of personal data in connection with marketing cookies (if any) is the user’s consent. Settings You may find detailed information about the different cookies (e.g. purpose of the cookie and recipient of the information collected by the cookie) here: Services Marketing These technologies are used by advertisers to serve ads that are relevant to your interests. DoubleClick Description of Service 1. Description and Scope of Processing We use DoubleClick Bid Manager and DoubleClick Floodlight for advertising. The DoubleClick technology uses cookies to analyze your use of the website. The information generated by these cookies about your use of the website is transmitted to and stored by Alphabet Inc. on a server. DoubleClick Bid Manager uses the transmitted anonymous or pseudonymized data in particular to evaluate visitor behavior on our website and to optimize the website. Alphabet Inc. may pass on the collected personal data to third parties through this technical procedure. 2. Legal basis of the Processing The legal basis for the processing of data is Art. 6 para. 1 lit. a GDPR, if the user has given his consent. 3 Purpose of the Processing DoubleClick Bid Manager allows us to find existing and new customers based on demographics, interests and purchase intentions, reach the right audience with first party, third party or proprietary Google data and context targeting. Google's proprietary algorithms automatically adjust the bids to our campaign goals. This allows us to maximize our ROI on advertising campaigns. 4. Retention Period The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for our purposes. 5. Withdrawal and Opt-out You can manage your privacy settings using the onsite button on our site. You can also permanently prevent the setting of cookies at any time by making the appropriate settings in your browser, so that DoubleClick cannot set a cookie. In addition, cookies already set by DoubleClick can be deleted via the browser at any time. 6. Further information For more information about DoubleClick's privacy practices, please see Google's privacy policy at http://www.google.com/intl/de/policies/privacy/. Data Puposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Advertising Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 a Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. USA Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor http://www.google.com/intl/de/policies/privacy/ DoubleClick Ad Description of Service This is an advertising service. With this service it is possible to provide relevant ads to users and get campaign reports. Processing Company Google Ireland Limited Google Building Gordon House, 4 Barrow St, Dublin, D04 E5W5, Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. https://support.google.com/policies/troubleshooter/7575787?hl=en Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Advertisement Analytics Optimization Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Browser information Click path Cookie information Date and time of visit Demographic data Device identifiers Location information Hardware/software type Internet service provider IP address Number of times ads are seen Serving domains Interaction data Page views Search history Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Google Ireland Limited Google LLC Alphabet Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://policies.google.com/technologies/cookies?hl=en Storage Information Maximum age of cookie storage: 1 year Stored Information test_cookie Test for cookie setting permissions in user's browser Type: cookie Duration: 1 day Domain: doubleclick.net IDE Contains a randomly generated user ID. Using this ID, Google can recognize the user across different websites across domains and display personalized advertising. Type: cookie Duration: 1 year Domain: doubleclick.net Eloqua Description of Service This is a software as a service (SaaS) platform for marketing automation. Processing Company Oracle Corporation 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. https://www.oracle.com/de/legal/data-privacy-inquiry-form.html Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Tracking Marketing Analytics Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. IP address Pages visited Cookie information Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Oracle Corporation Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.oracle.com/legal/privacy/ Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://www.oracle.com/marketingcloud/opt-status.html Storage Information Maximum age of cookie storage: 1 year, 1 month Stored Information ELQSTATUS This cookie is used to track individual visitors and their use of site. This is set on the first visit of the visitor to the site and updated on subsequent visits. Type: cookie Duration: 1 year, 1 month Domain: .eloqua.com ELOQUA This cookie is used for email services. It also helps for marketing automation solution for B2B marketers to track customers through all phases of buying cycle. Type: cookie Duration: 1 year, 1 month Domain: .eloqua.com Everesttech Description of Service This is an IT service. With this service business IT solutions are provided. Processing Company Adobe Ireland Limited 4-6 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Republic of Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. DPO@adobe.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Payment Website security Analytics Customer Support Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Data provided through forms on the website Device information IP address Referrer URL Search query when user clicks on link to this page Usage data Browser information Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted after 7 years from the last interaction Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Adobe Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.adobe.com/privacy/policy.html Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://www.adobe.com/privacy/cookies.html Storage Information Maximum age of cookie storage: 1 year Stored Information everest_g_v2 The purpose of the cookie is to map clicks to other events on the client's website. Type: cookie Duration: 1 year Domain: .everesttech.net everest_session_v2 This cookie is used to display personalized and relevant ads to the users and measure the efficiency of the ad campaign. Type: cookie Duration: Session Domain: .everesttech.net Facebook Social Plugins Description of Service This is a social plug-in from Facebook, which allows the user to connect their website with the social network Facebook. Processing Company Meta Platforms Ireland Ltd. 4 Grand Canal Square, Grand Canal Harbour, Dublin, D02, Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. https://www.facebook.com/help/contact/540977946302970 Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Integration of Facebook functions Optimization Marketing Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Browser information Date and time of visit Facebook user ID Websites visited HTTP-header Interaction data Browser type IP address Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Singapore Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Meta Platforms Ireland Ltd., Meta Platforms Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.facebook.com/privacy/explanation Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://www.facebook.com/policies/cookies/ Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://www.facebook.com/ads/preferences/?entry_product=ad_settings_screen Google Analytics Description of Service This is a web analytics service. With this, the user can measure the advertising return on investment "ROI" as well as track user behavior with flash, video, websites and applications. Processing Company Google Ireland Limited Google Building Gordon House, 4 Barrow St, Dublin, D04 E5W5, Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. https://support.google.com/policies/contact/general_privacy_form Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Marketing Analytics Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Pixel JavaScript Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Click path Date and time of visit Device information Location information IP address Pages visited Referrer URL Browser information Hostname Browser language Browser type Screen resolution Device operating system Interaction data User behaviour Visited URL Cookie ID Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The Retention Period depends on the type of the saved data. Each user can choose how long Google Analytics retains data before automatically deleting it. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Singapore Chile Taiwan Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Google Ireland Limited, Alphabet Inc., Google LLC Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://policies.google.com/technologies/cookies?hl=en Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=de Storage Information Maximum age of cookie storage: 2 years Stored Information __utmb This cookie is used to track the time of the visit. Type: cookie Duration: Session _ga This cookie is used to distinguish between users. Type: cookie Duration: 2 years _gid This cookie is used to identify the user Type: cookie Duration: 1 day __utma This cookie is used to record the time and date of the first visit, the total number of visits and the start time of the current visit. Type: cookie Duration: Session __utmz This cookie is used to record where the visitor came from. Type: cookie Duration: Session IDE This is used to show personalised ads. Type: cookie Duration: 1 year, 1 month CONSENT This is used to store the consent choices of the user. Type: cookie Duration: 2 years __utmt This is used to throttle the request rate. Type: cookie Duration: 10 minutes _gat This is used to read and filter requests from bots. Type: cookie Duration: 1 minute __utmc This is used to store the time of the visit. Type: cookie Duration: 30 minutes Outbrain Description of Service This is an advertising service. This service provides recommendations upon user interests. Processing Company Outbrain Inc. 111 West 19th Street, New York, NY 10011, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. dpo@outbrain.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Advertisement Conversion Tracking Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Pixel Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Anonymised IP address Browser type Date and time of visit Device information Device operating system Referrer URL Websites visited Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. United States of America Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. Data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. Worldwide Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Outbrain Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.outbrain.com/legal/privacy Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://www.outbrain.com/legal/#cookies Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://www.outbrain.com/legal/privacy#privacy-policy Storage Information Maximum age of cookie storage: 5 minutes Stored Information outbrain_cid_fetch This cookie determines how the user accessed the website. This is used to measure the efficiency of the marketing. Type: cookie Duration: 5 minutes Domain: outbrain.com Quantcast Description of Service This is an advertising, audience insights and measurement service. Processing Company Quantcast Corporation 795 Folsom Street, San Francisco, CA 94107, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. dpo@quantcast.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Advertisement Tracking Audience measurement Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Browser information Browser type Device identifiers Location information IP address Referrer URL Screen resolution Time of access or retrieval Unique device identifier URL Websites visited Application data Application used Auction identifiers Search strings Usage information Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. Worldwide Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Quantcast International Limited Quantcast Corporation Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.quantcast.com/privacy/ Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://www.quantcast.com/opt-out Storage Information Maximum age of cookie storage: 1 year, 1 month Stored Information mc This is used to collect data on the user's visit on the website. Type: cookie Duration: 1 year, 1 month Domain: quantcast.com d This is used to collect anonymous data on the user's visits to the website. Type: cookie Duration: 3 months Domain: quantcast.com TradeDesk Description of Service The Trade Desk is a DSP (Demand-side Platform) that serves display, Video, Native, Audio and Connected TV campaigns globally. The trade Desk is a IAB accredited Data Processor. Processing Company The Trade Desk, Inc. 42 N. Chestnut St, Ventura, CA 93001, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. privacy@thetradedesk.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Advertisement Analytics Optimization Personalisation Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Cookie ID Mobile advertising IDs Geographic location Browser type Device type Browser version Information from third party sources Preferences Ads viewed Referrer URL Device operating system Click path Usage data Interest information Unique device identifier Timestamp Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America United Kingdom European Union Brazil Canada Australia Japan Hong Kong Singapore Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. The Trade Desk, Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor http://www.thetradedesk.com/general/privacy-policy Stored Information TDID This is used to register a unique ID that identifies a returning user's device. The ID is used for targeted ads. Type: cookie Duration: 1 year TTDOptOut This is used to register a unique ID that identifies a returning user's device. The ID is used for targeted ads. Type: cookie Duration: Session TDCPM This is used to register a unique ID that identifies a returning user's device. The ID is used for targeted ads. Type: cookie Duration: 1 year Xandr Description of Service This is an advertisemnet platform. With this service it is possible to address individuals with products and services they may be interested to. Processing Company Xandr Inc. 28 West 23rd Street, Fl 4, New York, NY 10010, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. https://about.ads.microsoft.com/en-us/solutions/xandr/dpo-privacy-form Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Functionality Optimization Advertisement Analytics Reportings Targeting Personalisation Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Tracking Pixel Mobile SDKs Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Browser information Browser language Cookie information Ads viewed Device operating system Device information Device identifiers iOS identifier for advertisers IP address Geographic location Search terms Videos viewed Pages visited Clicked advertisements Internet service provider Surfing history Device model Data connection type Search history Interaction data Interaction with advertisement Ads shown Hashed version of email address Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. United States of America,European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted no later than 18 months after retrieval. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Xandr Inc., Service partners Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.xandr.com/privacy/platform-privacy-policy Stored Information uuid2, uids This is used to distinguish browsers and devices. Type: cookie Duration: 2 months, 29 days sess This is used to test whether cookies from Xandr are accepted. Type: cookie Duration: Session icu This is used to select ads and limit the number of times a user sees a specific ad. Type: cookie Duration: 2 months, 29 days anj, usersync This is used to track whether a cookie ID is synced with partners. Type: cookie Duration: 2 months, 29 days token This is a helper cookie used as a security measure with industry opt-out pages. Type: cookie Duration: 1 day pses This is used to measure the time a user spends on a site. Type: cookie Duration: Session gstatic.com Description of Service This is a domain used by Google to off-load static content to a different domain name in an effort to reduce bandwidth usage and increase network performance for the end user. Processing Company Alphabet Inc. 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043-1351, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. https://support.google.com/policies/contact/general_privacy_form Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Increasing network performance Reducing bandwidth usage Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. JavaScript Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Images CSS Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. United States of America Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. Requests for CSS assets are cached for 1 day, font files are cached for one year. Some information retained until removed by the user, some expires after a specific period of time, some is retained until the user's Google Account is deleted. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. Worldwide Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Alphabet Inc., Google LLC, Google Ireland Limited Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor http://www.google.com/intl/de/policies/privacy/ Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://policies.google.com/technologies/cookies?hl=en Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://safety.google/privacy/privacy-controls/ Functional These technologies enable additional functionalities of the website. Adobe Audience Manager Description of Service This is a marketing and analytics service. This is a service to analyse visitors’ activities; such as identifying visitors, recording data calls, synchronizing data, error tracking and testing. Processing Company Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited 4-6 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Republic of Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. DPO@adobe.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Analytics Testing Error tracking Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Browser information Device information HTTP-header IP address Referrer URL Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Adobe Systems Inc. Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.adobe.com/uk/privacy.html Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://www.adobe.com/uk/privacy/cookies.html Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://www.adobe.com/hk_en/privacy/opt-out.html Storage Information Maximum age of cookie storage: 5 months, 27 days Stored Information demdex This cookie is set to assign a unique ID to the website visitors. Type: cookie Duration: 5 months, 27 days Domain: adobe.com dextp This cookie is set to record the time of the last call for data synchronization. Type: cookie Duration: 5 months, 27 days Domain: adobe.com Adobe Fonts Description of Service This is a font service. It provides access to a font library. Processing Company Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited 4-6 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Republic of Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. DPO@adobe.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Functionality Optimization Providing fonts Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Tracking Pixel Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Fonts provided Time taken by browser to download fonts Account ID Browser information Whether or not an ad blocker is installed IP address Device operating system Browser version Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Adobe Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.adobe.com/privacy/policies/adobe-fonts.html Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://www.adobe.com/privacy/cookies.html Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://www.adobe.com/privacy/opt-out.html Akamai Description of Service This is a content delivery and cloud infrastructure service provider that distributes, accelerates and protects online applications. Processing Company Akamai Technologies GmbH Parkring 20–22, 85748 Garching, Germany Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. privacy@akamai.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Analytics Cloud computing Monitoring Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Browser information Date and time of visit Device information Device operating system Geographic location IP address Mouse movements Pages visited Visited URL Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. f GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. Worldwide Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Akamai Technologies, Inc., Akamai Technologies GmbH Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.akamai.com/us/en/multimedia/documents/akamai/akamai-privacy-statement.pdf Storage Information Maximum age of cookie storage: 1 hour Stored Information AKA_A2 This is used to speed up content delivery on websites using the adaptive acceleration feature. Type: cookie Duration: 1 hour Domain: akamai.com RT This cookies is used to measure loading times of pages. Type: cookie Duration: 1 month, 19 days bm_sv This is used to optimize the response time between the visitor and the website. Type: cookie Duration: 2 hours ak_bmsc This is used for security purposes and to distinguish between humans and bots. Type: cookie Duration: 2 hours bm_mi This cookie is used to measure the performance. Type: cookie Duration: 2 hours Brightcove Description of Service This is a video cloud for video online hosting. Processing Company Brightcove Inc. 290 Congress Street 4th Floor, Boston MA 02210, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. privacy@brightcove.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Customer Support Compliance with legal obligations Analytics Optimization Video hosting Personalisation Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Web beacons Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Unique device identifier IP address Preferences Data provided through forms on the website Referrer URL Click path Geographic location Media Access Control (MAC) address Hardware/software type User ID Device information Device operating system Session duration Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. f GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. United States of America Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Brightcove Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.brightcove.com/en/legal/privacy Flickr Description of Service This is an online photo management and sharing application. Processing Company Flickr, Inc Suite 200, 67 E Evelyn Avenue, Mountain View, CA 94041, USA Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. dmca@flickr.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Analytics Customer Support Functionality Intellectual property Personalisation Improvement of service Providing Service Safety measures Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Browser type Color depth Device identifiers Device operating system Location information Hardware/software type IP address Previously visited pages Screen resolution Time of access or retrieval Mobile network information Pages viewed Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. United States of America Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. Worldwide Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Flickr, Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.flickr.com/help/privacy Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://www.flickr.com/help/cookies Fontawesome Description of Service This is a font and icon toolkit service. Processing Company Fonticons. Inc. 6 Porter Road, Apartment 3R, Cambridge, MA 02140, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. privacy@fontawesome.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Providing fonts Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. IP address Referrer URL Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. United States of America Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Fonticons. Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://fontawesome.com/privacy Storage Information Maximum age of cookie storage: 2 years Google Fonts Description of Service This is a collection of fonts for commercial and personal use. Processing Company Google Ireland Limited Gordon House, 4 Barrow St, Dublin 4, Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. https://support.google.com/policies/contact/general_privacy_form Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Providing fonts Improvement of service Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. APIs Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. IP address Aggregated usage numbers Font file requests Referrer URL CSS requests User agent Browser information Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Singapore Taiwan Chile Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Alphabet Inc., Google LLC, Google Ireland Limited Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://policies.google.com/technologies/cookies?hl=en Indeed Description of Service This is a job portal. Processing Company Indeed, Inc. 124 St. Stephen's Green, Dublin 2, Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. privacy-dept@indeed.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Analytics Job application Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Media Access Control (MAC) address Profile information IP address Domain name Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. f GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Indeed, Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://de.indeed.com/legal#privacy Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://conv.indeed.com/pagead/conversion-optout Storage Information Maximum age of cookie storage: 1 year Stored Information INDEED_CSRF_TOKEN Ensures visitor browsing security by preventing cross-site request forgery. This cookie is essential for the security of the web site and visitor. Type: cookie Duration: Session Domain:  gdc.indeed.com JSESSIONID Preserves users states across page requests Type: cookie Duration: Session Domain: gdc.indeed.com LC No further information is known about the purpose of this cookie. Type: cookie Duration: 1 year jasx_pool_id No further information is known about the purpose of this cookie. Type: cookie Duration: Session LinkedIn Plugin Description of Service This tool adds Follow and Share buttons for the social media service LinkedIn to the website. LinkedIn is a social network that focuses on professional networking and career development. Processing Company LinkedIn Ireland Unlimited Company Wilton Place, Dublin 2, Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/ask/TSO-DPO Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Social Media Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. IP address Referrer URL User account information Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. Data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. Singapore United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. LinkedIn Ireland Unlimited Company LinkedIn Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.linkedin.com/legal/privacy-policy Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://www.linkedin.com/legal/cookie_policy Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/answer/62931/manage-advertising-preferences?lang=en Stored Information Linkedin_oauth_ This cookie is set to provide functions across pages. Type: cookie Duration: Session jQuery Description of Service This is a JavaScript library service. Processing Company OpenJS Foundation 1 Letterman Drive, Building D, Suite D4700, San Francisco, CA 94129, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. privacy@openjsf.org Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Providing content Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Log file data IP address Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. United States of America Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. OpenJS Foundation Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://openjsf.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/84/2019/11/OpenJS-Foundation-Privacy-Policy-2019-11-15.pdf Strictly necessary These technologies are required to use the core functionality of the website. Adobe Launch Description of Service Adobe Launch is a tag management system. With this, the user can deploy and manage all of the analytics, marketing, and advertising tags necessary to power relevant experiences. Processing Company Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited 4-6 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Republic of Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. DPO@adobe.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Tag Management Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. No data collected Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. f GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. Adobe generally retains the data within the Adobe Experience Cloud services for a maximum of 37 months from the time it was collected. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. India United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited Adobe Inc. Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.adobe.com/privacy/policy.html Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://www.adobe.com/privacy/cookies.html Amazon Web Services Description of Service This is a cloud computing service. Processing Company Amazon Web Services EMEA SARL 38 Avenue John F. Kennedy, L-1855, Luxembourg Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. eu-privacy@amazon.co.uk Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Cloud computing Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Accessed applications Authentication and security credential information Browser plug-ins Browser type Browser version Click path Content interaction information Cookie ID Cookie information Device information Device type Download errors Downloaded content from AWS Duration and number of simultaneous streams and downloads E-mail address Full URL clickstream to, through, and from AWS website (including date and time) Geographic location Interactions or communications with AWS Internet service provider IP address Mouse movements Network connection type Opened emails or clicks on links in emails from AWS Operating system information Page interaction information Page response times Playback details Streams Telephone number Time zone Usage data Views and interactions with content and ads Visits to, interactions with, and use of AWS offerings Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Amazon Web Services Inc. Amazon Web Services EMEA SARL Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://aws.amazon.com/privacy/?nc1=f_pr Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://aws.amazon.com/legal/cookies/ Stored Information AWSALB This cookie is used to keep the user on the same server for each subsequent request on which they have landed with their first request. It is used for load balancing . Type: cookie Duration: 7 days AWSALBCORS This cookie is managed by AWS and is used for load balancing. Type: cookie Duration: 7 days Cloudflare Description of Service This is a service providing increased security and performance for websites. Cloudflare offers for example a content delivery network („CDN“) to improve the loading times of the website. The use of a CDN enables the user to make content available for retrieval more quickly with the help of regionally or internationally distributed servers. Processing Company Cloudflare Inc. 101 Townsend St., San Francisco, CA 94107, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. privacyquestions@cloudflare.com , legal@cloudflare.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Optimization Website security Improvement of service Reducing bandwidth usage Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. IP address System configuration information Name of website Date and time of request Name and URL of the accessed file Amount of data transferred Status Information Device operating system Referrer URL Requesting provider Device type Time of the server request Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. f GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. United States of America,European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. Data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Singapore Australia United Arab Emirates Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Cloudflare Group Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.cloudflare.com/privacypolicy/ Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://www.cloudflare.com/cookie-policy/ Stored Information _cf_bm This is used for the bot protection solution provided by Cloudflare. Type: cookie Duration: 30 minutes cf_clearance This cookie is used to stor the proof of challenge passed. It is used to no longer issue a challenge if present. It is required to reach an origin server. Type: cookie Duration: 30 minutes _cfuvid This cookie is used for rate limiting rules. Type: cookie Duration: 7 days cf_chl_cc_XXX, cf_chl_rc_i, cf_chl_rc_ni The cookie is used by Cloudflare for the execution of challenges. It is not used for tracking or beyond the scope of the challenge. Type: cookie Duration: Session CookieMonster Description of Service Serves as a connection between Usercentrics consent management and the website, so that other data processing scripts can decide whether they are allowed to run. Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Compliance with legal obligations Consent processing Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Consent type Consent choice Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. c GDPR Google Tag Manager Description of Service This is a tag management system. Via Google Tag Manager, tags can be integrated centrally via a user interface. Tags are small sections of code that can track activities. Script codes of other tools are integrated via the Google Tag Manager. The Tag Manager allows to control when a particular tag is triggered. Processing Company Google Ireland Limited Google Building Gordon House, 4 Barrow St, Dublin, D04 E5W5, Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. https://support.google.com/policies/contact/general_privacy_form Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Tag Management Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Website tags Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Aggregated data about tag firing Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. Singapore Taiwan Chile United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Alphabet Inc., Google LLC, Google Ireland Limited Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://policies.google.com/technologies/cookies?hl=en JSDelivr Description of Service This is a CDN for open-source projects. Processing Company Prospect One sp.z o.o. Królewska 65A/1, 30-081 Kraków, Poland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. dak@prospectone.io Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Functionality Optimization Customer Support Analytics Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Usage data IP address Browser type Browser version Pages visited Date and time of visit Amount of time spent on a page Unique device identifier Diagnostic data Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. f GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Prospect One sp. z o.o., Third-party Service Providers Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.jsdelivr.com/terms/privacy-policy-jsdelivr-net Sentry Description of Service This is an error tracking and performance monitoring platform for Web apps, mobile apps and games. It is used to monitor and fix crashes in real time. Processing Company Functional Software, Inc. dba Sentry 45 Fremont Street 8th Floor San Francisco, CA 94105, United States of America Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. security@sentry.io Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Tracking Detecting code errors Develop and improve products Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Mobile SDKs Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Usage data Device information IP address Error data Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. f GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. United States of America Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Functional Software, Inc. dba Sentry Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://sentry.io/privacy/ Usercentrics Consent Management Platform Description of Service This is a consent management service. Usercentrics GmbH is used on the website as a processor for the purpose of consent management. Processing Company Usercentrics GmbH Sendlinger Str. 7, 80331 Munich, Germany Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. datenschutz@usercentrics.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Compliance with legal obligations Consent storage Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Local storage Pixel Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Opt-in and opt-out data Referrer URL User agent User settings Consent ID Time of consent Consent type Template version Banner language IP address Geographic location Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. c GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The consent data (given consent and revocation of consent) are stored for one year. The data will then be deleted immediately. Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Usercentrics GmbH Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://usercentrics.com/privacy-policy/ Stored Information uc_settings This holds the ControllerID and SettingsID, the language, settings version and services with their consent history. Type: web Domain: usercentrics.com uc_user_interaction This is used to signal whether a user has already given consent. Type: web Performance These technologies enable us to analyse the use of the website in order to measure and improve performance. Adobe Analytics Description of Service This is a web analytics service. With this, real-time analytics and detailed segmentation across all of the users marketing channels are possible. Processing Company Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited 4-6 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Republic of Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. DPO@adobe.com Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Analytics Technologies Used This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Ad campaign success rates Browser information Click path Clicked advertisements Cookie ID Date and time of visit Device information Information users provide in forms on this site IP address ISP/Connection speed Items placed in shopping cart Name of website Personal information the user provides outside of the services Product info, such as colors, prices, styles and photos Purchase activity Referrer URL Search query when user clicks on link to this page Usage data Whether user clicked on link, image, or text Whether user downloaded a file, image, or else Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes. Transfer to Third Countries This service may forward the collected data to a different country. Please note that this service might transfer the data to a country without the required data protection standards. If the data is transferred to the USA, there is a risk that your data can be processed by US authorities, for control and surveillance measures, possibly without legal remedies. Below you can find a list of countries to which the data is being transferred. For more information regarding safeguards please refer to the website provider’s privacy policy or contact the website provider directly. United States of America Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Adobe Inc. Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://www.adobe.com/privacy/policy.html Click here to read the cookie policy of the data processor https://www.adobe.com/privacy/cookies.html Click here to opt out from this processor across all domains https://www.adobe.com/privacy/opt-out.html Stored Information s_ecid This cookie is used to allow persistent ID tracking in the 1st party state and is used as a reference ID if the AMCV cookie has expired. Type: cookie Duration: 2 years s_cc This is used to determine if cookies are enabled. Type: cookie Duration: Session s_sq This cookie is set and read by the JavaScript code when the SelectMap functionality or the Activity Map functionality are enabled Type: cookie Duration: Session s_vi This is a unique visitor ID time and date stamp. Type: cookie Duration: 2 years Yahoo Analytics Description of Service This is an analytics service. Processing Company Verizon Media EMEA Limited 5-7 Point Square, North Wall Quay Dublin 1, Ireland Data Protection Officer of Processing Company Below you can find the email address of the data protection officer of the processing company. Verizon Media EMEA Limited, Attention: Data Protection Officer, 5-7 Point Square, North Wall Quay Dublin 1, Ireland Data Purposes This list represents the purposes of the data collection and processing. Reportings Analytics Technologies Use This list represents all technologies this service uses to collect data. Typical technologies are Cookies and Pixels that are placed in the browser. Web beacons Cookies Data Collected This list represents all (personal) data that is collected by or through the use of this service. Usage data Duration of visit Links clicked Clicked advertisement Ads viewed Statistical information Legal Basis In the following the required legal basis for the processing of data is listed. Art. 6 para. 1 s. 1 lit. a GDPR Location of Processing This is the primary location where the collected data is being processed. If the data is also processed in other countries, you are informed separately. European Union Retention Period The retention period is the time span the collected data is saved for the processing purposes. The data needs to be deleted as soon as it is no longer needed for the stated processing purposes. The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed for the processing purposes Data Recipients In the following the recipients of the data collected are listed. Verizon Media EMEA Limited Click here to read the privacy policy of the data processor https://policies.yahoo.com/ie/de/yahoo/privacy/topics/webanalytics/index.htm Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025