Convenience Translation  
 
 
This edition of our Bylaws for the Executive  Board, prepared 
for the convenience of English -speaking readers, is a 
translation of the German original. For purposes of 
interpretation the German text shall be authoritative and final . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bylaws  
 
for the Executive  Board  
of 
Siemens Energy AG  
Valid from October 1, 2024 
  

2 § 1 
General  
 
(1) The Executive Board shall be responsible for the management of the 
Company . The Executive Board is under an obligation to promote the 
Company ’s interests and drive sustainable growth in enterprise value.  
 
(2) The members of the Executive Board shall manage the business of the 
Company  in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Articles of 
Association and these Bylaws.  
 
(3) The Executive Board shall ensure compliance with all relevant legal 
requirements and internal Company  policies  and promote such compliance in 
all Group companies. It shall ensure an appropriate and effective risk 
management , risk controlling  and internal control system . 
 
(4) As a rule, m embers of the Executive Board shall not be over 63 years of age.  
 
 
§ 2 
Conflicts of interest  
 
(1) When making their decisions, members of the Executive Board may not be 
guided by personal interests nor may they exploit for their own advantage 
business opportunities offered to the Company . Over and above the provisions 
specified in section  88 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), the 
members of the Executive Board shall be subject to a comprehensive prohibition 
on competitive activity for the period of their membership of the Executive Board 
and the period of their contract of employme nt. 
 
(2) Executive Board members may conduct additional activities of a material 
nature outside the Company , in particular accept mandates on other 
supervisory boards, only with the Supervisory Board’s approval.  
 
(3) In connection with their function, the members of the Executive Board may 
not demand or accept unjustified benefits from third parties either for 
themselves or for other persons or grant unjustified benefits to third parties.  
 
(4)  The members of the Executive Board are obligated to disclose any conflicts 
of interest without delay to the Chair  of the Supervisory Board and to the 
President of the Executive Board, and to inform the other members of the 
Executive Board thereof. The Chair  of the Supervisory Board shall inform the 
Presiding  Committee of the Supervisory Board of the conflict of interest on the 
part of a member of the Executive Board when the relevant issue is presented 
to the Supervisory Board for decision. All transac tions between the Company  
or an entity dependent on the Company  on the one side, and members of the 
Executive Board or persons, companies or organizations related to members 
of the Executive Board on the other side, must be conducted in accordance 
with the standards that would apply in arm’s length transactions. If an 
individ ual transaction of this kind does not require the involvement of the 
3 Supervisory Board pursuant to section  111b para. 1 or 112 of the German 
Stock Corporation Act (AktG) but the value of the transaction concerned 
exceeds €25,000, the transaction shall nevertheless require the prior consent 
of the Supervisory Board.  
 
 
§ 3 
Collective responsibility  
 
(1) The members of the Executive Board shall bear collective responsibility for 
the entire management of the Company . They shall work cooperatively and 
provide each other with information on an ongoing basis about important 
activities and transactions in their respective Executive Board portfolios. If a 
member of the Executive Board has material concerns about an issue in a 
portfolio for which another member of the Executive Board is responsible and 
he/she is unable to resolve these concerns in a discussion wit h the other 
Executive Board member concerned, he/she is obligated to present the matter 
to the full Executive Board for a decision. In such cases, the action must be 
suspended until a decision is taken by the Executive Board.  
 
(2) The overall interests of the Company  shall have priority over the interests of 
the individual Executive Board portfolios.  
 
(3) The Executive Board shall be required to take a decision in all matters for 
which a decision by the Executive Board is prescribed by law, by the Siemens 
Energy Articles of Association or by these Bylaws, specifically regarding  
 
a) fundamental issues relating to business policy and company strategy;  
b) the annual planning and multi -year planning;  
c) the preparation of the annual financial statements and the consolidated 
financial statements, the combined management report of Siemens 
Energy AG and the Group, and the submission of all of these 
documents to the Supervisory Board;  
d) the Notice of the Shareholders’ Meeting;  
e) proposals for the agenda of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting;  
f) submissions to the Supervisory Board and to the Annual Shareholders’ 
Meeting required by law or by the Siemens Energy Articles of 
Association;  
g) transactions that require the consent of the Supervisory Board;  
h) all matters that are submitted to the Executive Board by the President 
or a member for decision.  
 
4  
(4) A portfolio assigned to an individual member of the Executive Board shall be 
that member’s own responsibility. Where activities and transactions in one 
Executive Board portfolio also concern one or more other portfolios, the 
Executive Board member concerne d must first reach an agreement with the 
other Executive Board members involved. If no agreement can be reached, 
each of the Executive Board members involved is under an obligation to 
ensure  that the matter is brought to the full Executive Board for a decision. In 
such cases, the action must be suspended until a decision is taken by the 
Executive Board . 
 
(5) Activities and transactions in a particular Executive Board portfolio that are 
considered to be extraordinarily important for the Company  or associated with 
an extraordinary economic risk shall require the prior consent of the full 
Executive Board. The same shall apply for such activities and transactions for 
which the President or another member of the Executive Board requests a 
prior decision by the Executive Board.  
 
(6) A member of the Executive Board may proceed with activities and 
transactions of the kind described in paragraph 4 sentence 2 and paragraph 
5 without the prior consent of the Executive Board or – in the case of 
paragraph 4 sentence 2 – without the prior agr eement of the other Executive 
Board members involved if the Executive Board member concerned believes, 
after due consideration, that the activity or transaction is required to avoid a 
severe, imminent disadvantage for the Company . The President of the 
Executive Board must be informed of any such activity or transaction without 
delay.  
 
 
§ 4 
Allocation of business responsibilities  
 
(1) The division of the Executive Board into portfolios and the allocation of 
business es to the individual members of the Executive Board shall be defined 
in the business allocation plan as approved , subject to Section 5 (1),  by the 
Supervisory Board based on a proposal by the Presiding  Committee of the 
Supervisory Board. The Labor Director (“Arbeitsdirektor”) shall be appointed 
in accordance with the requirements of section  33 of the German 
Codetermination Act (MitbestG).  
 
(2) The heads of the Governance functions , as determined by the Executive 
Board , shall, in conformity with the provisions for collective responsibility 
pursuant to Section 3, each have an unrestricted right to issue functional 
instructions in relation to their function toward all parts of the Company . This 
shall also apply, unless not permitted by law, vis -à-vis the heads of units that 
form a separate legal entity and the heads of Siemens Energy companies 
outside Germany.  
 
 
  
5 § 5 
Organizational and personnel decisions  
 
(1) The detailed delineation between the Business Areas , the Regions , the 
Corporate Functions  and the other areas , including  the consolidation  or 
division of Corporate Functions within the same Executive Board portfolio , 
shall be specified by the Executive Board based on a proposal by the 
President of the Executive Board.   
 
(2) The Executive Board shall decide  on the appointment and dismissal of the 
holders of all leadership positions on the first level below the Executive Board, 
and of the Compliance function.  
 
Such Executive Board decisions regarding the leadership positions of 
Accounting & Controlling, Assurance, Human Resources , Legal & 
Compliance  (General Counsel)  and Compliance  shall require the approval of 
the Presiding  Committee of the Supervisory Board.  Before appointing 
leadership position holders on the first level below the Executive Board who 
account for at least 10% of the Company’s total revenue, or who are of 
particular significance for external reporting, the Executive Board shall afford 
the Presi ding Committee the opportunity to comment. Currently, this affects 
the areas Gas Services Central, Gas Services Distributed, Grid Technologies 
Products, Transformation of Industry – Compression, Transformation of 
Indust ry – Steam Turbines & Generators, as well as Project Entity , Wind 
Power Onshore and Wind Power Offshore . In the event of changes, this list 
will be amended accordingly.  Additionally, the Presiding Committee shall be 
afforded the opportunity to comment before appointing the COO  and CTO of 
Wind Power . 
(3) When appointing people to management functions in the Company , the 
Executive Board shall take diversity into consideration and, in particular, aim  
for an appropriate consideration of women and internationality. The Executive 
Board specifies targ ets for the proportion of women in the top leadership 
functions.  
 
 
§ 6 
President of the Executive  Board  
 
(1) The President of the Executive Board shall be responsible for the coordination 
of all Executive Board portfolios. He/she shall endeavor to ensure that the 
management of all Executive Board portfolios is uniformly guided by the 
objectives set and approved a s a whole by the Executive Board.  
 
(2) The President of the Executive Board may at any time request information 
from the members of the Executive Board regarding issues within their 
respective portfolios and may specify that he/she must receive prior notice of 
certain types of transactions.  The President of the Executive Board shall be 
authorized to issue audit instructions to Corporate Audit and investigation 
instructions to the Corporate Functions ; the member of the Executive Board 
responsible for the respective function shall be informed acc ordingly.  
6  
(3) The President of the Executive Board shall represent the Executive Board and 
the Company  in external relations, specifically vis-à-vis shareholders and 
investors, public authorities, trade associations, economic organizations, and 
media. This responsibility may be delegated to another member of the 
Executive Board for certain types of matters or on a case -by-case basis.  
 
(4) The President of the Executive Board shall have responsibility for leading the 
Executive Board in its cooperation and communication with the Supervisory 
Board and its members. He/she shall inform the Chair  of the Supervisory 
Board on a regular basis regarding the state of business and the situation of 
the Company . He/she must report to the Chair  of the Supervisory Board 
without delay if there are important reasons for doing so or if there are 
business issues that may have a significant impact on the situation of the 
Company . The Chair  of the Supervisory Board may also at any time request 
from the members of  the Executive Board information regarding matters in 
their respective portfolios; the President of the Executive Board must be 
informed immediately and in full regarding any such requests. A member of 
the Supervisory Board may – through the Chair  of the Supervisory Board – 
effect the provision of information regarding matters in the Executive Board 
portfolios from the President of the Executive Board.  
 
 
§ 7  
Approval of the Supervisory Board  
 
(1) The approval of the Supervisory Board is required for the following 
transactions and measures:  
 
a) the acquisition, disposal and reorganization of companies, interests in 
companies and parts of companies, if in the individual  case the  market 
value or – if that is not known or the book value is higher – the book 
value of these transactions equals or exceeds the amount of 
€300  million or if the loss on a sale equals or exceeds the amount of 
€300  million, as well as the conclusion, cancellation and modification 
of intercompany agreements;  
 
b) measures or transactions, which result in a reduction or 
termination/closure of existing business fields, if such measures or 
transactions affect revenue of at least 4% of the total revenue 
generated in the last fiscal year by the Group;  
 
c) investments and divestments relating to movable fixed assets or 
intangible assets and external leases, if the value of the investment or 
divestment equals or exceeds the amount of €300 million;  
 
d) the acquisition, development, disposal and encumbrance of land, land 
rights or similar rights, if the individual value equals or exceeds the 
amount of €300 million;  
 
7 e) financial measures, if the value of these measures in the individual 
case equals or exceeds the amount of €300 million, with the exception 
of day -to-day financial transactions for managing liquidity and other 
financial risks such as currency, interest and,  where appropriate, 
share -related risks, and the repurchase of own debt issues in 
accordance with the conditions of issuance;  
 
f) the annual planning . 
 
(2) Individual measures as specified in paragraph 1 lit. a) to e) that are related 
shall be aggregated to determine the thresholds specified in paragraph  1. The 
approval of the Supervisory Board may be granted in advance for individual 
measures  or for a specific group or type of measures.  
 
(3) The approval of the Supervisory Board shall be deemed to have been granted 
if the individual measure is part of  an overall plan approved by the Supervisory 
Board and  is specified as such in its type and scope.  
 
(4) The Executive  Board shall ensure that the measures as specified in paragraph 
1 lit. a) to e) are undertaken by affiliated companies (as defined by sections  15 
et seq. of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)) in which the Company 
holds a direct or indirect majority interest , only with the approval of the 
Supervisory Board .  
 
(5) Exempted from the approval requirement in paragraph 1  lit. a) to e) are 
transactions and measures in which only the Company and its affiliates (within 
the meaning of sections 15 et seq. of the German Stock Corporation Act 
(AktG) ) are involved.  
 
 
§ 8 
Meetings and resolutions  
 
(1) The meetings of the Executive Board shall be convened by the President of 
the Executive Board. Any member of the Executive Board may request the 
convening of a meeting, specifying the matters to be discussed. The 
Executive Board shall approve the calendar of meetings (Board Calendar) 
based on the proposal by the President of the Executive Board.  Unless 
otherwise stipulated by the President of the Executive Board, it is permissible 
to participat e in the meetings by telephone and/or using electronic means of 
communication (in particular video conference).  
 
(2) The noti ce of a meeting , including the agenda,  shall be distributed no later 
than one week prior to the meeting . Any  proposed resolutions in connection 
with the agenda items shall be distributed no later than five days prior to the 
meeting . Any member of the Executive Board may request additions to the 
agenda. Such a request must be made at least five days before the meeting 
unless the degree of urgency justifies shorter notice.  
 
8 (3) The President of the Executive Board shall chair all meetings. He/she shall 
determine the order in which agenda items are discussed, and the method 
and order of voting. He/she shall have the right to defer deliberations and 
resolutions  on individual agenda items . 
 
(4) The President of the Executive Board may determine whether persons who 
are not members of the Executive Board shall be consulted in the 
deliberations.  
 
(5) The Executive Board shall be quorate if two thirds  of its members take part in 
a resolution . Members of the Executive Board who abstain from casting their 
votes during a resolution, shall be deemed to be in attendance within the 
meaning of preceding sentence.  Absent members of the Executive Board may 
cast their votes orally, in writing or by common means of communication (e.g. 
by e-mail or via the electronic boardroom ). Absent members of the Executive 
Board shall be informed without delay of resolutions  taken in their absence. 
Except in urgent cases, discu ssions and resolutions  regarding matters in the 
portfolio of an absent member of the Executive Board shall take place only 
with his/her consent.  
 
(6) As far as possible, resolutions  of the Executive Board shall be passed  
unanimously. If unanimity cannot be achieved, a resolution  shall require a 
simple majority of the votes cast. Abstentions shall not be counted as votes 
cast in this sense.  The President of the Executive Board shall have the 
deciding vote in the event of equal votes for and against a proposal.  
 
(7) Resolutions  may also be passed outside meetings by the submission of votes 
orally, in writing or by common means of communication (e.g. by e-mail or via 
the electronic boardroom ). The President of the Executive Board shall arrange 
for the resolution to be taken within a reasonable period . Notwithstanding 
paragraph 6 sentence 2, a resolution  of this kind is valid only if at least three  
quarters of the members of the Executive Board have voted in favor of the 
proposal.  
 
(8) Minutes shall be taken at every meeting of the Executive Board by a minute -
taker , who is appointed  by the President of the Executive Board. The minutes 
shall be signed by the minute -taker  and sent to all members of the Executive 
Board. Resolutions  of the Executive Board passed  in accordance with 
paragraph 7 shall also be recorded in minutes; the minutes shall be sent to 
every member of the Executive Board without delay. Any objections to the 
wording of the minutes shall be raised without undue delay.  
 
9 (9) If the President of the Executive Board is unable to carry out his/her duties, 
the duties for which he/she is responsible in accordance with the present 
section  7 shall be carried out by the member of the Executive Board appointed 
by the President to perform said duties. If the President of the Executive Board 
has not appointed any other Executive Board member as his/her deputy, or if 
the appointed Executive Board member is also unable to carry out the duties 
concerned, the duties shall be performed by the Executive Board member 
with the most years of service on the Executive Board. The deputy shall not 
be entitled to use the President’s deciding vote in accordance with paragraph 
6, sentence 3.  
 
 
§ 9 
Committees of the Executive Board  
 
(1) The Executive Board may form committees to deal with certain tasks. It shall 
appoint one committee member as committee chair.  
 
(2) Meetings of committees shall be held as required. Where the dates of such 
meetings are not determined in advance on the board calendar, the chair  of a 
committee shall convene a meeting with at least one week’s notice if he/she 
deems a meeting necessary or if a committee member requests a meeting 
and specifies the issues to be dealt with at the meeting.  
 
(3) Decisions of Executive Board committees shall require unanimity unless 
otherwise stipulated in the resolution establishing such committees.  
 
(4) The provisions of section 8  shall also apply mutatis mutandis  to the meetings 
and decisions of the Executive Board committees.  
 
 
§ 10 
Former members of the Executive Board  
 
(1) Former members of the Executive Board shall no longer be involved in the 
business operations of the Company  once they have left the Executive Board. 
They shall refrain from exercising any influence over the business operations 
of the Company  and from any public statements regarding such operations. 
The obligation on current members of the Siemens Energy decision -making 
bodies and senior managers to ensure that they do not disclose confidential 
information and Company secrets shall also apply to any communic ation with 
former members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, and former 
senior managers.  
 
(2) Where former members of the Executive Board hold positions on Supervisory 
Boards, similar positions in companies, or positions in academic, social, 
cultural, professional, or other organizations, they shall not occupy these 
positions on behalf of the Company . The Company  shall not be responsible 
for any expenses or obligations arising in connection with the fulfillment of 
such roles.  
10  
(3) In derogation from paragraph 2, an agreement can be made on a case -by-
case basis for a member of the Executive Board – once he/she has resigned 
from the Executive Board – to take up or continue certain positions on behalf 
of and in the interests of the Company  if there is a particular benefit for the 
Company  in the case concerned. Any such agreement must be made in 
writing and requires the approval of the Presiding  Committee of the 
Supervisory Board.  
 
(4) If an agreement is in place in accordance with paragraph 3, the former 
Executive Board member involved shall be entitled to reimbursement of 
expenses incurred in connection with the fulfillment of the role concerned and 
to any necessary and reasonable supp ort from the Company . The agreement 
may also include provision for appropriate compensation.  
 
*** 