Convenience Translation  
 
 
Declaration of Conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code by the  
Executive Board  and the Supervisory Board  of Siemens Energy AG pursuant to 
Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act  
 
Since submission of the last declaration of conformity in February 2021, Siemens Energy 
AG has complied with the recommendations of the Government Commission on the Ger-
man Corporate Governance Code in the version dated December 16, 2019 (“Code”), 
published by the Federal Ministry of J ustice and Consumer Protection in the official sec-
tion of the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger), and will continue to comply with them in 
the future, with the following exceptions:  
• According to recommendation C.4, a Supervisory Board  member who is not a mem-
ber of any Executive Board of a listed company shall not accept more than five  
Supervisory Board  mandates at non -group listed companies or comparable functions, 
with an appointment as chair of a Supervisory Board  being counted twice. According 
to recommen dation C.5, members of the Executive Board  of a listed company shall 
not accept more than two Supervisory Board  mandates in non -group listed compa-
nies or comparable functions, and shall not serve as the chair of a Supervisory Board  
in a non -group listed co mpany.  
Instead of viewing the recommended maximum number of mandates for Executive 
Board  and Supervisory Board  members as a fixed upper limit, it should be assessed 
on a case -by-case basis  whether the number of relevant mandates as defined by the 
Code  is appropriate . This assessment should consider the expected personal work-
load caused by the accepted mandates, which may differ depending on the specific 
mandates.  
• According to recommendations C.10 sentence 1 and D.4 sentence 1, the Chair of the 
Audit Committee should be independent from the Company and the Executive Board .  
Numerous material business relationships exist between Siemens Energy AG and its 
subsidiaries  on the one hand, and the companies of the Siemens Group on the other 
hand due to their joint group affiliation prior to the spin -off becoming effective. Given 
the function of Prof. Dr. Thomas as a member of the Executive Board  of Siemens 
AG, he therefore cannot be considered independent in accordance with the inde-
pendence indicators defined by the Code. In the view of the Audit Committee and the 
Supervisory Board , it is advantageous and in the Company’s interest to continue ben-
efiting from the expertise an d experience of Prof. Dr. Thomas as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee for a transition period.  
  
 
2  
As already announced at the Company’s ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting on February 
10, 2021, Prof. Dr. Thomas will resign his position as Chairman of the Audit Co mmit-
tee prior to the Company’s next ordinary  Shareholders’ Meeting, which is planned for 
February 24, 2022, and an independent person will be appointed to the position. From 
that point in time, the Company will be in compliance with recommendations C.10 
sentence 1 and D.4 sentence 1 of the Code.  
 
Munich, September 2021  
Siemens Energy AG  
 
The Executive Board   The Supervisory Board  
  