 
 
SPEECH FOR OPENING OF THE ANNUAL SHAREHOLDERS ’ 
MEETING 2023 OF SIEMENS ENERGY AG 
  Joe Kaeser  
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG  
Munich, February 7, 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The version published here in advance reflects the content of the main part of the speech by 
the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Some parts of the formal information on the course 
of the General M eeting are not included. The speech given orally during t he General Meeting 
may deviate from this preliminary draft, in particular to take current developments into 
account.  The spoken word as delivered in German shall prevail.  
 
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2023 Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  2 of 9 Dear Shareholders, ladies and gentlemen:  
As Chairman of the Supervisory Board, I her eby open the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 
2023 of Siemens Energy AG and take the chair in accordance with the Articles of 
Association. Today, we give account of our second year as an independent, publicly listed 
company. Before I report on the work of the Supervisory Board during the past fiscal year – 
from October 1, 2021, to September 30, 2022 – let me say a few words about the format and 
procedure of today’s Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.  
New virtual format facilitates truly interactive dialogue  
In July 2022, the German legislator created the legal basis to establish  the virtual 
shareholders’ meeting as an equivalent alternative to physical shareholders’ meeting s on a 
permanent basis . The new virtual format provides us with the formal framework to  protect 
shareholders’ rights, facilitate  an interactive dialogue  and, at the same time, realize benefits 
such as global participation, lower CO 2 emissions and lower costs.  
However, because we are  still lacking  (practical) experience with the format , we a re 
proposing a two -year authorization to conduct our AGM in a virtual format . This will enable us 
to gain experience with the format and, on this basis, will allow us to take discretionary 
decision s how to conduct  each shareholders’ meeting during this per iod. Today’s Annual 
Shareholders’ Meeting is being held in the new virtual format. What does this mean 
specifically? Today, you will be able to provide your statements, questions and proposals to 
us, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, live via video link. I look forward to a 
lively and active discussion with you.  
A challenging year characterized by dramatic geopolitical and geoeconomic 
changes  
Today, I give account in respect to  the activities of the Supervisory Board in what was in 
many ways an extraordinary and challenging fiscal year 2022, which was marked by 
dramatic events and changes. You will all be aware of the issues which have impacted the 
world and brought ongoing uncertainty: the war  in Ukraine ; the coronavirus pandemic in 
China; geo political and geoeconomic tensions between various economic systems, 
especially between China and the USA; inflation caused by rapid increases in energy and 
raw material prices; supply gaps and supply chain disruptions; extreme climate events. 
Germany is not the only country experiencing this “ Zeitenwende” (“ turning point” ).  
Those of you who attended the last Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on February 24, 2022, will 
surely recall that Russia invaded Ukraine just a few hours before the meeting started. We 
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2023 Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  3 of 9 were all shocked that a brutal war of aggression deploying 20th century tactics had broken 
out in Europe.  
Dramatic impacts of Russia’s war of aggression – we pledge our solidarity and 
support to the Ukrainian people  
To date, this war has had dramatic impacts:  
• on supply chains, trade relationships and movement  of goods;  
• on longstanding business relationships – including those of Siemens Energy;  
• on the supply of food and energy to millions of people;  
• and on inflation a nd economic growth worldwide.  
However, the most serious impacts have been on the security and lives of more than  
40 million Ukrainians, to whom we pledge our support and solidarity. Today is the 349th day 
of this terrible war. This is already 349 days too  many.  
Energy security has become a challenge – sustainability must remain at the top 
of the agenda  
As a consequence of the war , energy security and energy affordability  have become a 
challenge . We have been taking secure and reliable energy supplies at st able prices for 
granted. Th is changed all of a sudden. Questions were raised about failings in Europe’s 
energy policy – and rightly so.  
The focus has switched to ensuring energy security and affordability. At the same time, 
sustainability must remain at t he top of the agenda because climate change continues to 
progress . The past twelve months have been dominated by its effects. We all still remember 
the images of forest fires, floods and the critically low water levels in the River Rhine.  
However, climate  protection is not a task for Germany alone – it’s a global task. Working with 
its partners and customers, Siemens Energy can shape the energy transition and contribute 
to reduc e carbon emissions  significantly  worldwide. The company th erefore  has a key rol e to 
play in fighting the climate crisis, just as it has in ensuring the secure and reliable supply of 
sustainable and affordable energy to billions of people.  
 
 
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2023 Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  4 of 9 Issues discussed by the Supervisory Board in the past fiscal year  
Let’s now turn to today’s a genda. I would like to start with the report of the Supervisory 
Board, which is also part of agenda item 1. You will find the detailed report on pages 129 to 
134 of the Annual Report. Here, I will concentrate on a few focal points of the Supervisory 
Board’ s work.  
During the reporting period, the Supervisory Board conducted six regular meetings and one 
extraordinary meeting. It also adopted one resolution using the electronic boardroom as a 
virtual voting tool. Alongside its traditional tasks , which  include monitoring the operational 
business, reviewing the financial statements and setting Executive Board remuneration, the 
Supervisory Board focused on the following issues:  
The Supervisory Board welcomes the Executive Board decision to restructure the  
Russia business and exit th e Russian  market  
• First , the Supervisory Board received regular reports provided by the Executive 
Board and a specially established task force concerning the effects on the company’s 
business activities of Russia’s war of aggres sion and the resulting sanctions regime. 
It supported the unequivocal stance taken by the Executive Board and the decision to 
restructure the company’s business in Russia and exit the Russian market.  
Situation at Siemens Gamesa and full integration was a f ocus of the Supervisory 
Board  
• Second , the Supervisory Board focused during the fiscal year on the situation at 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE), the opportunities and risks of  a full 
integration, the procedure for achieving the full integration and the financing  of the 
transaction . 
New corporate structure fosters responsibility and accountability  
• Third , the Supervisory Board assessed in depth  the new corporate structure which 
came into effect on October 1, 2022, as well as its effects on human resourc es, 
processes and accounting. The company now reports four business areas: Gas 
Services, Grid Technologies, Transformation of Industry , and Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy. There is now one  Executive Board member with clear and direct 
responsibility for ea ch segment. This ensures external clarity as to the performance of 
each business. The structure th erefore  fosters responsibility AND accountability.  
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2023 Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  5 of 9 ESG topics now a greater part of the Supervisory Board’s work: Innovation and 
Finance Committee becomes Su stainability and Finance Committee  
• Fourth , the Supervisory Board dealt with the strategic evolution of Siemens Energy 
to become an integrated energy technology company and with its sustainability 
strategy. Given the particular significance of innovation to  the company’s strategic 
capability and competitiveness, the Supervisory Board decided to  discuss innovation 
strategy as an element of the company’s overall strategy at its plenary meetings.  
Sustainability topics are now discussed in depth by the Sustainability and Finance 
Committee (SFC), formerly known as the Innovation and Finance Committee. ESG 
(environmental, social and governance) topics are therefore of even greater 
importance in the Supervisory Board’s work. To optimize cooperation between the 
SFC and the Audit Committee, the Chair of the Audit Committee is a permanent 
guest at SFC meetings.  
Planned change of the independent auditor – resolution proposal to be presented to 
the Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2024  
• Fifth , the Supervisory Board decided on  the auditor. From fiscal year 2024, Siemens 
Energy intends to engage KPMG as the independent auditor of the annual and 
consolidated financial statements. We will present a corresponding proposal to you  
for resolution at next year’s Annual Shareholders’ Meeting.  
Changes in the composition of the Supervisory Board and Executive Board: 
leadership team stronger and more diverse  
• Sixth , the Supervisory Board also concerned itself with personnel matters and 
changes.  
Changes to the Supervisory Board  
Employee representatives Rüdiger Groß and Hagen Reimer left the Supervisory 
Board. They had both been members of this body since the company was 
established. I would like to thank them most sincerely for their consi stently 
constructive collaboration. And I welcome Manuel Bloemers and Thomas Pfann, who 
joined the Supervisory Board as new members on September 1, 2022. Mr. Bloemers, 
Mr. Pfann: I look forward to continuing our cooperation.  
 
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2023 Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  6 of 9 Changes to the Executive Boar d 
Changes were also made to the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board approved 
the termination of the Executive Board mandate of Dr. Jochen Eickholt, who became 
CEO of Siemens Gamesa as of March 1, 2022. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, I 
would like to  thank Mr. Eickholt and wish him every success in his important new role. 
As of March 1, 2022, the Supervisory Board appointed Karim Amin to replace Mr. 
Eickholt as a member of the Executive Board. At the start, he was responsible for the 
Generation divisi on and is now responsible for the Gas Services business area.  
Two more new Executive Board members were appointed in the current fiscal year. 
Vinod Philip, formerly Head of Strategy and Chief Technology Officer (CTO), was 
appointed as the Executive Board member responsible for Global Functions effective 
October 1, 2022. He is therefore responsible for functions such as Innovation, IT and 
Purchasing. Anne -Laure de Chammard was appointed as a member of the Executive 
Board effective November 1, 2022, and is r esponsible for the Transformation of 
Industry business area.  
In Ms. de Chammard, Mr. Amin and Mr. Philip, we have gained three knowledgeable, 
cosmopolitan and empathetic leaders who have made the management team even 
stronger and more diverse. I look forw ard to our further collaboration and, on behalf of 
the Supervisory Board, wish them every success.  
In the current fiscal year, the Supervisory Board has already extended the Executive 
Board mandates of Maria Ferraro and Tim Holt, which were due to expire at the end 
of September 2023. The early extension of their contracts until the end of November 
2027 ensures continuity on the Executive Board.  
Dialogue  with all stakeholders includes leadership, governance and 
sustainability topics  
Dialog ue with the Executive Board is important to the work of the Supervisory Board which is 
why I maintain regular and direct contact with all Executive Board members. The same also 
applies to the L egal & Compliance function. Integrity and zero tolerance in compl iance 
matters are the basis for sustainable, fair and honest business operations.  
In my discussions with institutional investors, I address the leadership, governance and 
sustainability topics currently being dealt with by the Supervisory Board. I also ma intain a 
dialog ue with political decision -makers worldwide, as well as with representatives of the 
science community and non -government al organizations.  
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2023 Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  7 of 9 The feedback I receive is a key element in continuously developing the work of the 
Supervisory Board o f a global ly active  company  in the field of energy transition . This also 
includes the exchange within the globally oriented "Community of Chairpersons" of the World 
Economic Forum.  
Annual financial statements of Siemens Energy AG adopted  
The annual financi al statements and consolidated financial statements as well as the 
combined management report of Siemens Energy AG and the Siemens Energy Group for 
fiscal year 2022 submitted as agenda item 1 have been audited by Ernst & Young GmbH, 
which issued an unquali fied audit opinion for all three. The Executive Board and the auditor 
explained the details of the financial statements and the Group non -financial statement to 
both the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. Following its review, the Supervisory 
Board  approved the financial statements. The annual financial statements of Siemens 
Energy AG are therefore  adopted.  
Proposal to amend the Articles of Association relating to  virtual annual 
shareholders’ meetings: authorization period limited to two years  
I already addressed the subject of virtual shareholders’ meetings at the start of my speech. In 
order to secure flexibility for future shareholders’ meetings, we propose a corresponding 
amendment to the Articles of Association. Instead of the five years permit ted by law, we are 
asking you to approve a two -year authorization. We would like to learn from the experience 
with this format, which is new to all of us, and then resubmit a corresponding resolution 
proposal to you for further decision. We ask for your su pport for this amendment to the 
Articles of Association!  
Other resolutions on today’s agenda are the renewal of the company’s authorized and 
contingent capital and the authorization to acquire and use  of treasury  shares. Dr. Bruch will 
be explaining further details of the background to these proposals later in this Annual 
Shareholders’ Meeting.  
Energy transition taking place at different speeds worldwide: electrification and 
sustainability are high on the agenda e verywhere  
During fiscal year 2022, Siemens Energy faced a challenging environment. Alongside 
internal optimization measures, there was a strong focus on geopolitical and geoeconomic 
topics . Every country in every region of the world needs energy. Electrifi cation and 
sustainability are very high on the political and economic agenda everywhere. However, 
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2023 Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  8 of 9 every country differs in terms of ambition and resources as well as speed and resolve in 
implementation. For this reason, business opportunities will vary fro m region to region.  
Excellent long -term perspective  for Siemens Energy  
As a leading global energy technology company, Siemens Energy is right in the middle of 
this diversified – not to say fragmented – environment.  However, with the most complete and 
highest -quality portfolio in the industry, the company has an excellent long-term perspective . 
In an energy transition of varying speeds , being able to offer options  is critical : from 
hydrogen -capable  gas turbines, high -performance wind turbines , smart transmission grids  to 
advanced  generation options for energy carriers such as green hydrogen or syn thetic fuels.  
Full integration of Siemens Gamesa is now key task  
For this reason, after much consideration by the company’s boards , the tender offer for  the 
remaining shares in Siemens Gamesa was a logical step. Now, s uccessfully implementing 
full integration is a key task, which must also address past shortcomings.  
The action plan is convincing and designed for the long term. The management team with 
Jochen Eickholt as CEO and Christian Bruch as Chairman is experienced and knows what 
needs to be done. The impressive successes in restructuring the Gas and Power business 
underscore our confidence that the management team will achieve sustainable success at 
Siemens Gamesa as well. However, it will take some time to work through the difficult 
structure of the legacy order backlog.  
I am therefore very pleased  that, in terms of both growth and income, the conventional part 
of the Siemens Energy business is devel oping faster and better than originally planned. 
Alongside the Executive Board, many employees have worked very hard to achieve this 
outcome. I would like to express my sincere gratitude!  
Unsatisfactory share price performance  
We cannot  be satisfied with o ur share price performance in the reporting year, even though 
the price has recovered considerably from its low in October. A number of factors have been 
at work here . Management attention is focused on those factors , which Siemens Energy can 
influence  and which can result in tangible improvements.  
Framework established for reshaping Siemens Energy  
The acquisition of SGRE ’s minorities  and optimization of the company’s structural 
organization and processes make up the framework for reshaping Siemens Energy which 
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2023 Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  9 of 9 has largely been completed. With the additions to the Executive Board, we have an 
exceptionally strong leadership team. The strategy is in place . The industry offers scope for 
reliable growth and attractive mid -term returns.  The company has the clear purpose of 
delivering benefits to society and the world we live in. This is also important because it is a 
factor considered by the brightest talents when choosing an employer.  
A good team performance in a challenging year – than ks to everyone involved  
The Supervisory Board wholeheartedly supports the direction of the company taken by the 
Executive Board. Our CEO Mr. Bruch and his Executive Board team have the full confidence 
of the Supervisory Board. On behalf  of the Supervisory Board , I would like to thank the 
Executive Board and the company’s 9 1,000 employees for their commitment during these 
difficult times and in a tough environment. And I would like to thank our shareholders, 
customers and partners for the trust they have pla ced in the company and its management 
and governance bodies.  
It was a challenging year that was very demanding on everyone. However, a lot was 
achieved and the course for the future has been set. For this reason, we are looking ahead 
with confidence. Than k you for your attention.  
 
INFORMATION AND FORWARD -LOOKING STATEMENTS  
This document contains statements related to our future business and financial performance, and 
future events or developments involving Siemens Energy that may constitute forward -looking  
statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “look forward to,” 
“anticipate” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project,” or words of similar meaning. 
We may also make forward -looking statements in other  reports, prospectuses, in presentations, in 
material delivered to shareholders, and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may from 
time to time make oral forward -looking statements. Such statements are based on the current 
expectations and c ertain assumptions of Siemens Energy´s management, of which many are beyond 
Siemens Energy´s control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors, 
including, but not limited to, those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter “Report on 
expected developments and associated material opportunities and risks” in the Annual Report. Should 
one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, should acts of force majeure, such as 
pandemics, occur, or should underlying  expectations including future events occur at a later date or 
not at all, or should assumptions prove incorrect, Siemens Energy´s actual results, performance, or 
achievements may (negatively or positively) vary materially from those described explicitly o r implicitly 
in the relevant forward -looking statement. Siemens Energy neither intends, nor assumes any 
obligation, to update or revise these forward -looking statements in light of developments which differ 
from those anticipated.  
Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other documents may not add up precisely 
to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.  