 
SPEECH FOR OPENING OF THE ANNUAL SHAREHOLDERS ’ MEETING 2022  OF 
SIEMENS ENER GY AG 
Joe Kaeser  
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG  
Berlin , Februar y 24,  2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The version published here in advance reflects the content of the main part of the 
speech by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Some parts of the formal information 
on the course of the General M eeting are not included. The speech given orally during 
the General Meeting may deviate from this preliminary draft, in particular to take current 
developments into account.  The speech as orally delivered in German  shall prevail.  
Check against delivery.  
 
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2022 Siemens Energy AG  
  Seite  2 von 9 Dear  Shareholders, Ladies and Gentlemen,  
As Chairman of the Supervisory Board, I hereby call the 2022 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 
of Siemens Energy AG to order and assume the chair of the meeting as provided in the 
Articles of Association. I am very pleased that w e are reporting to you today on our first year 
as an independent DAX40 company. Just a few months after the listing on the Frankfurt 
Stock Exchange, we were promoted into the DAX30. This was both a gratifying recognition of 
the importance and potential of Siemens Energy and an obligation  to soundly  and 
successfully leverage this potential.  
Siemens Energy has reoriented itself  in the midst of  the challenging yet necessary energy 
transition. In the midst of the COVID -19 pandemic, 92,000 employees have provided 
customers throughout the world  with the best possible support  – while continuing to drive 
digitalization of important processes like customer service. They are helping to ensure that 
critical infrastructure continue s to function reliably under difficult conditions. Therefore, on 
behalf  of the Supervisory Board , I would like to sincerely thank all employees around the 
world for their commitment and engagement.  
Interactive dialogue at general meetings is important to us  
Unfortunately, the pandemic is again forcing us to hold our Sharehol ders’ Meeting virtually 
this year  – without the physical presence of the shareholders or their proxies. For the 
Supervisory and Executive Boards of Siemens Energy, personal interaction  with you is 
especially important yet only possible with an in -person shareholders’ meeting.  
The Federal Ministry of Justice has just presented draft  regulations  for stock corporations  to 
hold virtual shareholders’ meetings. The draft contains many good and important ideas for 
guaranteeing  shareholder right s while offering companies  the necessary legal certainty . We 
welcome this initiative and hope that it will soon become a reality. Swiftly  ensuring legal 
clarity is important for the share holder  culture and for shareholder rights in Germany.  
Today, however , we unfortunately still must  comply with the provisional  legal framework. 
Regrettably , shareholders  therefore  do not have the right to speak , ask questions  or make 
motions during this Shareholders’ Meeting.  However, all registered shareholders and their 
proxies were able to submit questions via our Internet service until midnight, February 22, 
2022. We have made changes over the previous year to improve the situation.  
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2022 Siemens Energy AG  
  Seite  3 von 9 This year, for the first time, you were able to submit speeches in writing or as a video  
message in advance. We will show all video messages at the beginning and during the block 
of questions. These messages are also available in the Internet service for the Shareholders’ 
Meeting. This year for the first time, you also had the opportunity to respond to the speeches 
by Dr. Bruch and me. We published the scripts of both speeches on our website on February 
18. In addition, questions could also be submitted in English. With this change, we are taking 
particular account of the company’s large inter national shareholder base. We believe these 
measures have improved  the shareholders’ right to ask questions in advance.  
Tasks of the energy transition: the fight against climate change – and the fight  
to preserve  prosperity, peace , and fundamental freedom s 
Siemens Energy is helping to meet and master one of the greatest challenges of our times: 
ensuring a reliable, affordable, and sustainable electricity supply for humankind. It is the 
issue of our times: the fight against climate change  – and the fight  for securing prosperity, 
peace, and fundamental  freedom s. The climate crisis dominates election campaigns and 
summit meetings. Environmental movements have rightly made their voices heard – not just 
on Fridays. Investors are increasingly demanding that companies adopt rigorous  
sustainability strategies. The iss ue of our time has arrived in society. But more importantly, 
the countless discussions and announcements now  need to be followed up by concrete, 
measurable efforts.  
This is evident . Yet what is meant by “prosperity, peace and fundamental freedom s”? 
This means  an energy transition –   
• that creates jobs in green technologies and gives future prospects to those whose 
jobs in the fossil energy sector will be lost ; 
• that provides reliable and affordable electricity to the hundreds of millions of people 
who still have no access to electricity today ; 
• and that employs world -class innovations to provide scalable solutions that can be 
used worldwide.  
Rigorous  implementation of the "Energy of Tomorrow" strategy  
In the past fiscal year, Siemens Energy rigorously  implemented the first part of its “Energy of 
Tomorrow” strategy . This first part  aims to transform the company into a leading full -service 
provider of sustainable energy technology. Much has been accomplished. We can be very 
satisfied with the development o f the Gas and Power (GP) business. Its management has 
stabilized the business and realigned Gas and Power. We made faster progress here than 
planned, despite adverse circumstances.  
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2022 Siemens Energy AG  
  Seite  4 von 9 Fast progress at Gas and Power  – despite adverse circumstances  
“Team Purple”, as they call themselves, has done  a good job , particularly consider ing that 
this is a young company in its first year as an  independen t company . Nor should one forget 
the challenges presented by the structural change from fossi l to renewable energy. Siemens 
Energy undertook important initiatives here  – such as concluding a  “Future A greement ” that 
establishes a reliable , social ly responsible  framework in the event that structural adjustments 
have to be made. This was not an easy task. That’s why I’d also like to personally thank the 
employee representatives and Mr. Robert Kensbock in particular.  
Business performance  at Siemens Gamesa unsatisfactory – need for 
operational improvement and consistent leadership  
However , the business performance  of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy S.A. (SGRE), 
in which Siemens Energy holds a majority stake, was not satisfactory. In the past fiscal year, 
Siemens Gamesa acco unted for roughly 3 6 percent of Siemens Energy ’s revenue and nearly 
37 percent of its order intake.   
Power generation with renewables at the core of the energy business of the 
future  
Over the long term, power generation with renewable energies  will play a leading role at 
Siemens Energy. Together with power transmission, storage and conversion, it will be the 
core of the energy business of the future. With this in mind, the Executive and Supervisory 
Boards intensively considered alternative courses of action  for the business.  The 
appointment of Dr. Jochen Eickholt as the new CEO as of March 1, 2022, addresses the 
need for operational improvements and consistent leadership at SGRE. This marks the first 
step in the realignment of a n important future  business  field for a modern energy company.   
Karim Amin will succeed Mr. Eickholt on the Executive Board of Siemens Energy on March 
1, 2022. Mr. Amin previously served as Executive Vice President of the Generation Division 
at Siemens Energy. I think highly of Mr. Amin  as an experienced and excellent manager with 
a great passion for people, and with notable enthusiasm for customers and for the energy 
business in general. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, I wish Mr. Amin a good start and 
much success . Good luck, Ka rim! 
 
 
 
 
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2022 Siemens Energy AG  
  Seite  5 von 9 Real transformations are painful  before they  start to  shine  
In this first year of independence, Siemens Energy has both achieved a lot and learned a lot : 
for example,  that even major changes are possible and can have a positive impact if they are 
tackled boldly and consistently and clearly explained  – but also that building  a new company 
takes time and patience, particularly when it involves what may be the biggest restructuring 
ever in the energy industry. The fact is : real transformations are painful  before they  start to  
shine.  
Topics addressed by the  Supervisory Board in the past financial year  
Let me turn now to the Report of the Supervisory Board, which is also part of Item 1  on the 
agenda of today’s Shareholders’ Meeting. You can find the detailed report on pages 136 to 
141 in the Annual Report. In my following remarks, I will concentrate on some key areas of 
the work of the Supervisory Board. I’d then like to explain some ch anges in the company’s 
compensation system and sketch the steps we have taken to ensure the independence of 
the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board held seven regular meetings in the past fiscal 
year. Two resolutions were passed using the written proc edure.  
In addition to the “ traditional”  tasks such as supervision of  the operational business, auditing 
the financial statements, and dealing with the compensation system, the following topics 
were front and center :  
• First, the Supervisory Board dealt intensively with the implementation of the first 
stage of the “Energy of Tomorrow” strategy program. This stage is called 
“Accelerating Impact” and aims at sustainably improving the company’s operational 
performance and bringing Siemens Energy to a sustainabl e margin level for the long 
term.  
• Second, the Supervisory Board focused on a dialogue with the Executive Board 
regarding the development and adoption of a long -term technology strategy for the 
company. The energy world is changing rapidly. Digitalization,  decentralization , and 
decarbonization are strong trends affecting the energy business. They have a serious 
impact on future topics like renewable energies, storage, and hydrogen. As a result, 
they will offer attractive business opportunities for Siemens Energy.  
• Third, the  Supervisory Board kept its eye – albeit indirectly – on market 
developments, operational performance, and the strategic orientation of Siemens 
Gamesa. The renewed profit warning issued on July 14, 2021, underscored the need 
for stronger leadership at and more effective supervision  of Siemens Gamesa.  
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2022 Siemens Energy AG  
  Seite  6 von 9 • Fourth, in practically every meeting of the Supervisory Board, we addressed  how the 
company was dealing with the effects of the COVID -19 pandemic.  The health and 
safety of the employees was and remains a top priority. Working in close cooperation 
with our customers and suppliers, the company ensured that critical infrastructures 
could continue to function.  At the same time, the company helped slow the spread of 
the pandemic with its program of providing vaccinations and testing.  
That roughly sums up the focal points of the Supervisory Board’s work. Discussion  with the 
members of the Executive Board is especially important  for this work . I also keep in direct 
contact with  the members of the  Executive Board – Christian Bruch, Jochen Eickholt, Maria 
Ferraro and Tim Holt. The same is true for the Legal & Compliance function s. The Chief 
Compliance Officer , Dr. Anita Schieffer , has access to the Supervisory Board  at all times  and 
reports regularly to the Audit Committee at its meetings.   
Dialogue with all stakeholders as part of corporate governance  
For me, as part of our corporate governance, dialogues with investors  and with other 
stakeholders from politics, the scientific community, and environmental organizations and 
movements are also especially important. Topics of these exchanges included issues of 
governance, social responsibility, and sustainability. Siemens Energy is planning to set 
ambitious ESG targets that are consistent with its value chain. Mr. Bruch will discuss this in 
greater detail in his presentation.  
For a company these days, it is no lon ger sufficient to just be economically successful. A 
company must achieve more: It has to create value for society in order to be highly regarded 
and considered relevant. Companies must meet this high demand today. And economic 
strength is the prerequisite  for doing so.  
Selective adjustments to Executive Board compensation  within the existing 
system  
Siemens Energy’s Executive Board compensation is intended to ensure that the work of the 
management is rewarded based on performance. It is also an instrument for attracting  and 
keeping  the best people for the  company. As such, it is an important topic for the Supervisory 
Board. At our Shareholders’ Meeting last year, you gave 96.7 percent approval to the 
compensation system for the Executive Board, a very large  majority. However, there was 
also some critical feedback.  
The Presiding Committee addressed  your concerns  and has proposed to the Supervisory 
Board to selectively adjust the Executive Board compensation for fiscal 2022 within the 
existing system.  
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2022 Siemens Energy AG  
  Seite  7 von 9 What d oes that mean specifically?  
• On the one hand, the free cash flow before taxes is now a financial indicator for the 
bonus. This indicator, together with the adjusted EBITA margin before special items, 
is intended to incentivize short -term improvements in profitability and cash flow.  
Further criteria for the individual target achievement of the bonus relate to ESG and 
thus to sustainability. In the bonus for fiscal 2022, each Executive Board member will 
not only be measured against business goals  specific to his or her individual portfolio , 
but also against the progress made in health &  safety  and customer satisfaction. This 
includes setting an example for and promoting “zero harm” behavior  – that is, 
avoiding accidents at work  – and improvin g customer satisfaction.  
• On the other hand, a criterion for the equity -based compensation  will be improved as 
of 2022. We will use the S&P Global Clean Energy index as a new benchmark. Along 
with Siemens Energy, the index includes around 75 companies world wide that 
generate a significant share of their revenue from clean energy activities. In making 
this change, we are taking into account the growing importance of decarbonization 
solutions.  
For both the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, transparent  and easy -to-
understand reporting on the compensation of the Executive Board is a matter of course. For 
this reason, we jointly decided to prepare and issue a Compensation Report for fiscal 2021 
pursuant to § 162 of the German Stock Corporation Act. This report is intended to further  
strengthen  transparency. The Supervisory and Executive Boards are presenting the 
Compensation Report of Siemens Energy AG for fiscal 2021 for your approval under Item 6 
of the agenda.  
Independence of the Supervisory Boar d ensured  
The independence of the Supervisory Board is an important asset. For good  reason , this  is 
anchored in practically all international supervisory regulations. As announced at the last 
Shareholders’ Meeting, Prof. Dr. Ralf Thomas handed over the cha irmanship of the Audit 
Committee after a transitional period. This step took place on December 3, 2021. The new 
Audit Committee Chair is Laurence Mulliez. I would like to thank Mr. Thomas for his 
outstanding commitment in establishing and leading this comm ittee. Thank you , Ralf! I am 
pleased that you will continue to be available with your expert  advice as a member of the 
Audit Committee.   
In Laurence Mulliez we have found a worthy successor as Chair of the Audit Committee. She 
brings excellent experience f rom international supervisory boards. Laurence, thank you for 
your willingness to take on this important function. I wish you great success!  
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2022 Siemens Energy AG  
  Seite  8 von 9 We have also underscored the independence of Siemens  Energy  AG from the Siemens 
Group by appointing a Lead Indepen dent Director. Dr. Hubert Lienhard holds this position. 
As a member of the Presiding Committee, he was involved in all essential issues relating to 
the work of the Supervisory Board and its committees. This enabled him to at all times 
ensure the independence of the Supervisory Board in the best interest of the company and 
its shareholders.  
Annual Financial Statements of Siemens Energy AG a ccepted  – dividend 
proposal of €0.10 per share  
The Annual Financial Statements and Consolidated Financial Stat ements, together with the 
Combined Management Report of Siemens Energy AG and the Group for fiscal 2021 , were 
audited by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft . Each received an 
unqualified audit opinion.  The Executive Board and the independent  auditor explained the 
documents for the Annual Financial Statements in detail to both the Audit Committee and the 
Supervisory Board. After its own review, the Supervisory Board approved those financial 
statements. The Annual Financial Statements of Siemen s Energy AG are thereby accepted.  
At this point, I would like to draw your attention to the following: On February 8, 2022, 
Siemens Energy AG announced in the electronic Federal Gazette that it would tender the 
mandate to audit the Statutory and Consolidated Financial Statements and  the Combined 
Management Report for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2024. As decided in the Audit 
Committee, we will implement this swiftly and with due diligence.  
The Supervisory Board agrees with the  Executive Board’s proposal to distribute a dividend of 
€0.10 per share entitled to a dividend.  
Siemens Energy as a focused and innovative company  
It was right to establish Siemens Energy as  a focused and innovative company in the field of 
energy technolo gy – a company that is no longer part of a conglomerate and can now 
concentrate fully on its own business success. We are also seeing this growing trend toward 
the creation of “pure players” – companies focused on one industry – among other 
competitors. Th e difference? Siemens started down this path much earlier than others.  
The company  doing the “spinning off”  initially benefited from this realignment, getting a 
higher valuation of future profits, the so -called “multiples.” In the medium term, Siemens 
Energy will also benefit from its industry focus, since it is no longer dependent on other parts 
of the Siemens Group for the allocation of resources.  
 
 
Joe Kaeser: Speech A nnual Shareholders ’ Meeting 2022 Siemens Energy AG  
  Seite  9 von 9 Great team effort in an eventful year – a big thank  you to everyone involved  
Siemens Energy’s first year was eventful. It was marked by adaptations to the new 
conditions for an independent company. The promotion to the DAX30 came early but 
accelerated its establishment as a n independent  company. The colleagues worked extremely 
hard and accomplished great things during the ongoing pandemic. The management is 
making progress in transforming the company and is investing in the future.  
The recipe for success: think ing, defining , and tackling change  
The will and ability to think,  define  and tackle necessary changes will continue to determine  
future  failure or success. Only those who drive change  manage to avoid being  driven by 
others! Siemens Energy is changing – not only its own company, but the world of energy as 
well. My thanks to the  management, the employees, the employee representatives, the 
customers and partners, and to all members of the Supervisory Board for the good and 
always constructive collaboration .  
The ambition : most valued energy technology company in the world  
I really like Siemens Energy ’s ambition : to be come  the most  valued  energy technology 
company in the world. Because this vision is bold, and its outcome and implementation will 
help determine the development of a sustainable society. That’s what makes it wort h giving 
one’s very best. Thank you!  
INFORMATION AND FORWARD -LOOKING STATEMENTS  
This document contains statements related to our future business and financial performance, and 
future events or developments involving Siemens Energy that may constitute forwa rd-looking 
statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “look forward to,” 
“anticipate” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project,” or words of similar meaning. 
We may also make forward -looking statement s in other reports, prospectuses, in presentations, in 
material delivered to shareholders, and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may from 
time to time make oral forward -looking statements. Such statements are based on the current 
expectat ions and certain assumptions of Siemens Energy´s management, of which many are beyond 
Siemens Energy´s control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors, 
including, but not limited to, those described in disclosures, in part icular in the chapter “Report on 
expected developments and associated material opportunities and risks” in the Annual Report. Should 
one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, should acts of force majeure, such as 
pandemics, occur, or should underlying expectations including future events occur at a later date or 
not at all, or should assumptions prove incorrect, Siemens Energy´s actual results, performance, or 
achievements may (negatively or positively) vary materially from those described ex plicitly or implicitly 
in the relevant forward -looking statement. Siemens Energy neither intends, nor assumes any 
obligation, to update or revise these forward -looking statements in light of developments which differ 
from those anticipated.  
Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other documents may not add up precisely 
to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.  