 
 
  
 
 
 
Siemens Energy AG’s fiscal year 2020 was largely dominated by its spin -off from Siemens AG, which was 
completed with Siemens Energy AG’s listing.  The company has thus achieved key milestones and is now 
independent. Siemens Energy’s first Annual Shareholder s’ Meeting  (AGM)  will be held on February 10, 2021. We 
look forward to engaging with you at this Shareholders’ Meeting, which will be conducted  as a virtual event due 
to the coronavirus pandemic.  
The meeting’s agenda contains important items that you are asked to vote  on. Among other things, t hey include 
the appointment of the independent auditor , say -on-pay and in particular the election of the shareholder 
representatives on the Supervisory Board , who will represent your interests as part of their duties to oversee 
and advise the company. A lot of information on these subjects is already available, for example in the Annual 
Report or in the Notice of Annual Shareholders’ Meeting published in the German Federal Gazette 
(Bundesanzeiger) on December 15, 2020.  
For the first time , you  have the opportunity to elect the Supervisory Board  of the newly listed Siemens Energy . 
That is one of the core items on the agenda. We are , therefore , seeking dialog ue with you in order to duly clarify 
key matters at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and, if necessary, deal with issues you feel to be important in 
greater depth. That is also important for us because interactive dialog ue is restricted due to the fact that the 
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting is being held as a vi rtual event.  
Today, I would like to begin with the pending election of the Supervisory Board members . Here we want to  give 
you some insight into the criteria we considered to be most relevant in the selection process for the Supervisory 
Board members:   
1. An understanding of and experience in the energy sector and/or finance ( domain know how ) 
2. Internationality and diversity (diversification)  
3. Experience in the field of regulation and government relations  (e.g. energy transformation)  
4.  Appropriate involvement of the main shareholder to ensure stability while emphasizing our 
independence (deconsolidation)  
Based on these criteria and the availability of candidates, we selected the following persons to be proposed for 
election by the shareholders:  
Hubert Lienhard, Hildegard Müller, Geisha Jimenez Williams and Randy Zwirn contribute  substantial experience 
in the industry and in particular i n Siemens Energy’s business segments. W ith Christine Bortenlänger, Laurence 
Mulliez and Ralf Thomas, we have proven and internationally respected financial experts.  And with Ralf Thomas, 
we ensure  a smooth transition and the stabilization of a successful a nd mutually value -creating deconsolidation.  
Sigmar Gabriel is able to put major infrastructure projects into context thanks to his  vast domestic  and 
international experience  in the governmental and political landscape . Matthias Rebellius is the member of the 
Managing Board of Siemens AG responsible for Smart Infrastructure . In his capacity as an Energy board member, 

 
 
 he can help optimize the interface in the electrical value c hain between Siemens Energy AG and Siemens AG – 
also with regard to cooperation ventures to the benefit of both companies  and ultimately their shareholders.  
All in all, w e believe we have  excellent  selections . And we are also aware that we can strengthen t he Supervisory 
Board’s expertise even further in some areas  going forward . Representation of the Asia region is one example. 
We also believe that there should be greater ethnic diversity in addition to gender diversity and wide range of 
experience. Such considerations  are on the medium -term agenda for further enhancing the Supervisory Board. 
They also include , in particular , further strengthen ing the independence of key Supervisory Board committees.  
After all, good corporate governance is our top priority. And a  highly  independent Supervisory Board is an integral 
part of that.  
The overarching intent in  spinning  off the Energy Sector  from Siemens AG  and establish ing Siemens Energy  as a 
separate company has  always  been  to ensure the future and, above all, sus tainable success of  both companies,  
Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG.  
Therefore, the  Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG , and I , as its President and Chief Executive 
Officer , did important groundwork  early on  to achieve that goal. That also included a dedicated succession 
process for me as President and CEO of Siemens AG and the involvement  of Siemens Energy AG’s Executive Board 
at an early stage. It became very clear to  Jim Hagemann  Snabe and me, that a neutr al position ing was necessary 
in the process of spinning off Siemens Energy  in order to ensure   fair, balanced  and mutually acceptable 
structures for the two companies – the “new” Siemens AG and Siemens Energy . This included  resolv ing conflicts  
of interest  between their different objectives. With the early succession appointment of Roland  Busch  and a 
timely management structure for Siemens Energy , I was able to fulfill this mediation task while still being 
President and CEO  of Siemens AG to accomplish the go al of creating two strong and well equipped companies 
going forward. And therefore,  I was able to  act in the best interests of shareholders , who would receive  shares 
in both companies at the time of the spin -off. Another particularly important aspect  in th e creation of the two 
new companies, Siemens AG and Siemens Energy,  was to find structures and processes that enable stabilization 
of Siemens Energy, a company that is attractive in the medium term, but is faced in the short term by structural 
challenges.  
In order to support this essential task, I agreed to accept the post of Chairman of Siemens Energy’s Supervisory 
Board. In the past months, I have accompanied the operationally independent board of the Gas and Power 
operating company in a neutral and dedi cated  manner  on its path toward autonomy . During  that time , I have 
handed over the operational  part of my  responsibilities as President and CEO of Siemens AG to my successor 
Roland Busch and focused on creating a stable governance and management structure at Siemens Energy. We 
have acted precisely  in line with the way  we defined the spin off process early on.  
As planned for a long time, I will resign as President and CEO of Siemens AG effective February 3, 2021, the day 
of Siemens AG’s Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. I will also resign from the Supervisory Board of Siemens Limited 
India effective February 12, 2021 . From then on wards,  I will have no further ties with or obligations toward 
Siemens AG  and will act in a fully independent way in the best interest o f Siemens Energy shareholders . 
Independence on the Supervisory Board has the highest priority. At the time the Notice of Annual Shareholders’ 
Meeting was issued, seven members of the Supervisory Board did not have any personal or business relations 
with Si emens AG or Siemens Energy AG. I myself will end my ties with Siemens  AG soon as stated above. Th is is 
why  the Siemens Energy Supervisory Board concluded that I will be  fully independent at the time of the Annual 
Shareholders’ Meeting on February 10, 2021.   
Despite our keen interest in ensuring continuity and stability  in the separation and thus, deconsolidation process 
of Siemens Energy from Siemens AG , independent judgment i s nevertheless important. And we are also 
respectful of any remaining shareholder concerns regarding the involvement of current and former management 
members of Siemens AG.  In order to address these concerns, the Supervisory Board has nominated Hubert 
Lienhard  a special independent director who will explicitly watch over shareholders’ interests  in terms of 
independence . This heightened  authority  and the fact that Siemens  AG will only have a significantly lower 
number of votes in electing that Supervisory Bo ard member underscores the special importance of Hubert 
Lienhard’s position, which is based on the role and responsibilities of a Lead Independent Director.  
 
 
 One of the most prominent  committees is the Audit Committee , a majority of  whose members are to be 
independent. We believe a ll nominated shareholder representatives have outstanding  professional qualities  and 
experience  for this pos t and are an outstanding team for the Audit Committee. By the same token,  it is also highly 
import ant to enable a smooth transition to the new company in terms of , for example,  the integrity of the 
internal control system and compliance. Therefore, we propose to have  Ralf Thomas play an important role in 
the committee for an interim timeframe. In this context, w e assume that there will be developments  in the next 
one to two years that will underscore the intent  to equip the Audit Committee further with independent 
members – for example, as soon as Siemens AG (as announced) has reduced its stake in Sieme ns Energy AG or 
where criteria for inclusion in further s tock market  indices accelerate this plan .  
Günter Augustat, Manfred Bäreis, Andrea Fehrmann, Andreas Feldmüller, Rüdiger Groß, Nadine Florian, Horst 
Hakelberg, Robert Kensbock, Jürgen Kerner and Hage n Reimer have been appointed by the court as employee 
representatives. Our constituent meeting with the employee representatives was held on December 4, 2020. I 
look forward to working together with them. I believe that the great strength of German codeter mination lies in 
a constructive relationship between shareholder  and employee  representatives  for the greater good of the 
company  and all its stakeholders . That strength will be a key factor in view of the tasks ahead of us.   
Given the diligent considerations laid out above in great detail, t he members of the individual committees, on 
which shareholders and employees are equally represented, are  proposed as follows : 
Chairman’s Committee  Joe Kaeser (Chairman)  Hubert Lienhard      
Robert Kensbock  Jürgen Kerner      
Audit Committee  Christine Bortenlänger  Laurence Mulliez  Joe Kaeser  Ralf Thomas  
Robert Kensbock  Andrea Fehrmann  Nadine Florian  Manfred Bäreis  
Innovation and Finance 
Committee  Joe Kaeser (Chairman)  Hubert Lienhard  Matthias Rebellius  Geisha Williams  
Robert Kensbock  Jürgen Kerner  Günter Augustat  Rüdiger Groß  
Nominating Committee  Joe Kaeser (Chairman)  Hubert Lienhard  Ralf Thomas  Geisha William s 
Mediation Committee  Joe Kaeser  Hubert Lienhard      
Robert Kensbock  Jürgen Kerner      
Related Party Transactions 
Committee  Hildegard Müller  Christine Bortenlänger  Sigmar Gabriel    
Robert Kensbock  Andreas Feldmüller  Horst Hakelberg    
 
I wish to thank you kindly for your trust in our Supervisory  Board and would be delighted if you gave your support 
to the candidates in the election on February 10, 2021 . If you have any further questions in the meantime  that 
cannot wait to be answered at the AGM, do not hesitate to contact our investor relations  team.  
We assume that there will also be further detailed questions on other topics, like the Executive Board’s 
compensation, appointment of the independent auditor and possibly other points . We will also be pleased to 
address these matters at the Annual S hareholders’ Meeting.  
 
 
 
 
Joe Kaeser  
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG  
 
