 
 
 
SIEMENS ENERGY  
ANNUAL SHAREHOLDERS ’ MEETING  2021  
 
Christian Bruch  
President and Chief Executive Officer,  
Siemens Energy  AG 
 
Munich , Februar y 10,  2021 
 
 
 
Check against delivery . 
  
 
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  2 of 13 Esteemed  shareholders and viewers , investors, members of the Supervisory Board, and 
colleagues!  I’d also like to greet  the representatives of the Siemens family .  
My warm welcome to the first Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens Energy AG.  
On behalf of our Executive Board and our employees, I thank you for the trust you have 
placed in Siemens Energy. My thanks also go to our customers and partners.    
Since this  is our first Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting, I’d like to briefly explain the setup of 
Siemens Energy again before turning to my report on our past fiscal year.  Afterwards, I ’ll 
discuss the measures we are taking to improve profitability and then conclude wi th a few 
points on the medium - and long -term plans and orientation of Siemens Energy.    
Siemens Energy – What we stand for  
Siemens Energy is  a young company with a long history. For some 155 years, our 
technologies have been contributing to the electrification of society, and we have been an 
independent company list ed on the stock exchange for the past 136 days. Virtually no  other 
company in the energy industry combines technologies, implementation expertise and 
reliability across the entire ener gy value chain like Siemens Energy.  
By embarking on  our path to independence in 2020, we created  an important prerequisite for 
addressing changes in the  energy  market so we can continue playing a leading role in 
shaping the future of energy suppl y. Siemens Energy is  a world -leading energy technology 
company.  One-sixth of the world’s power  generation is based on our technologies that have 
been implemented by our employees in power plants, components , and services.  
Over  50 percent  of our revenue today is generated with renewable energies and 
transmission technologies.  And we keep close to our customers with our global footprint .  
We support our customers with the most advanced and efficient technologies and solutions 
in the energy industry, regardless of where they stand in the ir energy transition. Our claim is: 
We energize  society . That’s why what we do is so relevant for society. Day after day, our 
employees undertake  extraordinary things to keep critical infrastructure working and the 
lights on.      
Siemens Energy is  organized as two report able segments: “ Gas and Power ” or GP, and 
“Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy” or SGRE. You can also see t his distinction in the 
financial figures  presented in our Annual Report.  
 
 
 
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  3 of 13 Gas and Power consists of  three  Division s:  
• Generation , responsible for efficient and low-emission power generation , 
• Industrial Applications , responsible for industrial applications used by  our customers 
in the process industry ,   
• and Transmission, responsible for the low -loss transformation and transmission of 
electricity.   
One business area that is currently attracting considerable attention is our New Energy 
Business, in which we have bundle d our electrolysis activities, such as the production of 
hydrogen.  
In addition, we hold a 67 -percent stake in Siemens Gamesa  Renewable  Energy , a publicly 
listed, world -leading supplier of onshore and offshore wind turbines.     
Getting started – Fiscal Year 2020  
Fiscal 2020 was a historic year for Siemens Energy thanks  to its spin-off from Siemens AG. 
And as in many other industries, 2020  was also and above all dominated by the COVID -19 
pandemic.   
Our organization ha s quickly adapt ed to the new boundary  conditions. Whether working in 
home office, in workshops and factories, directly with our customer s, or at construction sites, 
our employees mastered the situation with outstanding commitment and dedication. In all our 
activities, the health and protectio n of our employees and partners had – and continue to 
have – the highest priority.  Throughout the year, we succeeded in  maintain ing our business 
operations and manag ing our  complex supply chains.   
Energ y and electricity are the foundation of economies and societies worldwide. We at 
Siemens Energy have helped keep  this foundation stable.  We also accomplished this by 
providing a wide range of digital services such as the remote maintenance of plants and the 
remote commissioning of turbines. As terrible as the  consequences of COVID -19 have been, 
the pandemic has  also boosted demand for such digital solutions and services.   
At the same time, however, some of our customers have had to postpone investments or 
delay maintenance intervals, or our activities on const ruction sites have at times been 
interrupted.  Yet despite these challenging conditions, around 70 percent of our production 
facilities were able to operate at full or only slightly reduced capacity in the past fiscal year. 
All our factories are currently operating , and only one in five is working with slightly reduced 
capacity due  to the pandemic.  
   
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  4 of 13 Despite all the precautionary measures taken in our workplaces, some of our employees 
were also stricken  by COVID -19. As of February 9, we have registered some  3,100 cases  
worldwide . Fortunately, around 2,800 of those colleagues have since recovered. But 
tragically, we have recorded 1 2 deaths since the outbreak of the pandemic. We mourn their 
loss together with their families. And we wish all those who are afflicted  a speedy and 
complete recovery.     
The pandemic is ch anging the way we live and work together. And it is also changing the 
world of energy.  We are already operating in a market that is rapidly being transformed . We 
see, however, that the pandemic has further accelerated the pace of the shift towa rds 
intellig ent and sustainable energy systems.    
This conclusion is also shared in the “ World Energy Outlook  2020 ” published by the 
International Energy Agency  (IEA). According to the IEA, a “well-conceived energy policy” is 
more important than ever for making energ y systems worldwide more resilient and for 
reaching climate targets. As are the right technologies. We at S iemens Energy want to make 
a decisive contribution here. We want to support our customers on their journey  through the 
energy transformation  by providing them with  sustainable, reliable, and affordable energy 
systems and the necessary services.    
ESG is core to Siemens Energy  
Ladies and Gentlemen , 
ESG  criteria – which means: environment al, social and governance  – play a decisive role in 
the orientation of our company.  
We contribute to all 17 sustainability goals of the United Nations Agenda 2030, and focus on 
five of these  goals, including “gender equality ”, “affordable and clean energy ”, and “climate 
action ”. On our Executive Board, I have personally taken over respons ibility for the topic of 
sustainability. And Maria Ferraro is responsible for inclusion and diversity in our company.  
This also underscores  the importan ce of  these topics for us.    
We set ambitious sustainability goals for the company in fiscal 2020.  We w ant to convert our 
own electricity consumption at Siemens Energy to 100 -percent green electricity by 2023 ; at 
present, we are at 78 percent. Siemens Gamesa has already been relying  on 100-percent 
green electricity for its operations since 2020.  At Siemens Energy, we ’re aiming at being 
climate -neutral in our own operations by 2030.  Siemens Gamesa already reached its 
climate -neutral target in 2019 and intends to be the very first energy t echnology company to 
reach net-zero emissions by 2050.      
 
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  5 of 13 We want to offer our employees equal and excellent opportunities for their personal 
development  in the company . In the past fiscal year, we at Siemens Energy invested €60 
million in the training and continuing education of our employees. Lifelong learning is a 
critical success factor in an industry that  is undergoing profound changes.     
The safety and health of our employees have highest priority. To ensure this, we ’ve 
redefined  our safe ty principles and will continue improving our safety -related behavior. Our 
goal: zero work -related incidents . Zero fatal ities.    
We’ve also set clear goals for inclusion and diversity  in the company . By 2025, we want to 
increase the share of women in top leadership positions  at Gas and Power from just over 20 
percent at present to 25 percent. And we ’re aiming at a 30 -percent share here by 2030.  
Siemens Gamesa plans  to increase the proportion of women for all employees and 
management to 25 percent by 2025. I am convinced that diverse teams are more efficient, 
and that active inclusion and diversity are factors that attract young people to an employer.     
Acting with responsibility is also the basis of our corporate governance . And this includes 
maintaining the highest standards of integrity and compliance in everything we do. In the 
event of misconduct, we act swiftly  and consequently . Our integrity is the foundation of our 
business principles. And under no circumstances will this be called into question.  
Helping our customers master the energy transition  
Ladies and gentlemen , 
Siemens Energy develops and implements projects along the entire energy value chain. I’d 
now like to highlight selected successful projects from the past fiscal year as examples of our 
work.    
The energy transition also includes providing  highly efficient interim soluti ons for 
conventional power generation. Our new generation of gas turbines, the HL class, is just 
such a solution . With an efficiency of 63 percent, it sets a new standard for power generation 
with natural gas. Last year we delivered our first HL -class turb ines to customers in the U.S. 
and the UK.  With them, our customer in England slashed  their CO 2 emissions by half 
compared to the old coal-fired plant. In numbers , this translates to a saving of up to 3.7 
million tons  of CO 2 – or one percent of the United Kingdom’s total energy -related CO 2 
emissions. With efficiency like this, I ’m convinced that our gas turbines can make a decisive 
contribution to the energy transition.    
 
 
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  6 of 13 Power transmission systems are the backbone of every energy infrastructure.  One example 
from our portfolio in this segment is our grid connections with offshore wind farms in the 
North Sea. Last July, we handed over the BorWin3 platform to our customer TenneT.  And in 
the fall, we received the order for a further platform, BorWin5.  When all seven platforms are 
in operation, they will serve around seven million households in Germany with green 
electricity.    
The energy transition is not only about the efficient generation and transmission of electricity, 
but also about reducing ener gy consumption and emissions in industrial processes.  One 
example of our work at our Industrial Applications Division  is the delivery of industrial gas 
turbines and centrifugal compressors to our customer Total for installation in Africa’s largest 
liquifie d natural gas project in Mozambique. Our equipment will help significantly increase the 
LNG plant’s efficiency.      
Wind power plays a key role in the generation of renewable energy. And with it,  Siemens 
Gamesa  Renewable Energ y. Customer Vattenfall has placed an order with SGRE to supply 
140 offshore wind turbines for a wind power plant off the coast of the Netherlands. The 
turbines will generate electricity for two million households and further reduce the cost of 
offshore wind e nergy.    
Fiscal 2020 in numbers  
Ladies and gentlemen , 
Although fiscal 2020 was a challenging year, we showed a solid operational performance. 
Expressed in numbers :  
• Order intake  for Siemens Energy  grew  1 percent  to €34 billion .  
• The order backlog  reached a total of  €79 billion .  
• Revenue  declined by 5 percent  to €27.5 billion . 
• The book-to-bill ratio, the ratio of new orders to revenue, was a good 1.24.   
Looking  at our two reporting Segments, Gas and Power and Siemens Gamesa, we get the 
following pi cture:  
• Order intake at Gas and Power fell by nearly two billion euros to €19.3 billion. SGRE , 
on the other hand, was able to increase its order intake by a solid two billion euros to 
€14.7 billion.  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  7 of 13 • The order backlog at Gas and Power dropped to around €48 billion, while the backlog 
at Siemens Gamesa rose by roughly  €30 billion , also helped by the takeover of 
Senvion.  
• Revenue at Gas and Power and Siemens Gamesa declined to €18.1 billion and €9.5 
billion, respectively.   
We were very satisfied with the development of our free cash flow before taxes, despite it 
dropping by  €187 million to €977 million. We were successful in keeping  our money together 
in this difficult year.    
Adjusted EBITA before special items for Siemens  Energy was just below breakeven  at a 
negative €17 million.   
• Our adjusted EBITA margin before special items at Siemens Energy reached minus 
0.1 percent. This was within our guidance.  
• At Gas and Power, it was at a positive 1.4 percent.  
• At SGRE, it reache d minus 2.6 percent.  
The overall result was heavily influenced by negative special effects totaling around €1.5 
billion. The bottom line showed a net loss of €1.9 billion for fiscal 2020.  
These special effects also included, in addition to severance  and o ne-off costs related to the 
spin-off, impairments and write -downs related to strategic portfolio decisions in our  
aeroderivative gas turbine business.  These are smaller turbines primarily used in the oil and 
gas industry. Since d emand for these turbines was permanently too low and our market 
expectations were not met, we  have streamlined  our portfolio in this area.    
Outstanding commitment of our 92,000 colleagues worldwide  
Considering the general economic conditions and our spec ial challenges related to the spin -
off and establishing ourselves as an independent company, we have shown a solid 
operational performance . Complete the spin -off and list Siemen Energy on the stock market; 
support customers in the best possible way despite  COVID -19; reorganize the company to 
create the basis for future success: all this is only possible with a great team. In this 
extraordinary year, our 92,000 colleagues worldwide have achieved extraordinary things. I ’d 
like to thank them all for their comm itment on behalf of the entire Executive Board.  
To help alleviate the additional burdens caused by the corona pandemic and to pay special 
tribute to their achievements, we gave our participating employees in Germany a special 
bonus. They received Siemens Energy shares worth over €45 million.  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  8 of 13 In addition , we also established the “Employee Spin -off Incentive Program ” to honor our 
employees ’ strong commitment to completing a  successful spin -off. As part of this program, 
our employees receive stock awards worth 3 percent of their total annual target income. 
These stock awards entitle the holder to receive shares in Siemens Energy at the end of the 
vesting period in September 2023. The higher  the share price rises , the more shares will be 
transferred. Our employees can participate until the end of March, which  is why we cannot 
communicate a total sum at this point in time.  I will touch on this later during the presentation 
of the management report regarding treasury shares.     
Successful start at the stock market and admission to the MDAX  
Ladies and gentlemen , 
The market’s expectations of a company are also reflected in the development of its share 
price.  As expected, the share price of Siemens Energy was initially volatile following its 
starting price of €22.01 at its first listing on September 28. A lso because index -based funds 
had to sell their shares in Siemens Energy.  Since then, the share price has increased in 
value by 4 4 percent. In comparison, the MDAX grew  23 percent and the DAX was up 13 
percent in the same period. Admission to the MDAX in December 2020 proved to be  a 
stimulus for further growth.      
As Siemens Energy , we want to shape the energy transition and be an attractive investment 
for our shareholders.  Our dividend policy provides for a pay-out ratio in the range of 40 to 60 
perce nt of net profit. As previously announced in our prospectus, Siemens Energy will not 
distribute a dividend for the past fiscal year due to the company’s loss for the year.     
Immediately following our listing, we launched  our share buyback program with a v olume of 
up to €393 million. The sole purpose of the buyback is to issue shares to employees and to 
members of the Executive Board. The program will run to the end of March 2021 at the 
latest. To date, we have bought shares with a total value of around €30 7 million.    
Our success depends on motivated and talented employees. At Siemens Energy, we are 
therefore encouraging employees to participate in their company. To this end, we’ve set up 
several employee share programs  that are proving to be very popular. Today, nearly 35,000 
colleagues are also employee shareholders.    
 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  9 of 13 The energy market is changing – we are changing with it  
Ladies and gentlemen , 
At Siemens Energy , we are tackling  one of society’s greatest challenges : ensuring a reliable, 
affordable , and sustainable supply of electricity to meet growing demand.   
• Electricity consumption is soaring worldwide – in part due to the increasing 
electrification of industry and the spread of electromobility.  
• At present, some 770 million  people worldwide have no access to electricity and will 
be striving for reliable power supplies in the future.   
• As a result of these trends, an increase of up to 50 percent is expected for global 
power generation by 2040.   
• At the same time, the demand for highly efficient, climate -neutral generation solutions 
is growing.    
How can we succeed in meeting this increasing demand for energy on a sustainable basis?  
There is a growing awareness that we can’t waste any time if we want to effectively fight 
climate change. Growing numbers of companies as well as countries and entire economic 
regions are setting ambitious climate targets. Nearly 70 countries have already committed to 
targeting net zero emissions.  The U.S. has rejoined  the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
and aims at converting its electricity supplies entirely to clean energies by 2035. Germany’s 
phasing out of coal, the EU’s 2050 target, and China’s pledge to become climate -neutral by 
2060 are further examples of thi s change in direction.    
The electricity market is shifting  rapidly toward renewables and solutions for decarbonization. 
When it comes to energy sources, this means solid growth in wind and solar – which will 
benefit Siemens Gamesa. We ’re also trying to benefit in areas where these technologies are 
integrated into  energy systems – which includes our Generation business. We expect to see 
a flat  development in the fields of natural gas, nuclear and hydropower, and a decline in coal 
and oil.    
What exactly do these changes mean for us?  
For one, good  opportunities . After all, we already generate  50 percent  of our revenue with 
our decarbonized por tfolio, such as renewable energies and efficient transmission 
technologies.  On the other hand, these changes  also present  major structural challenges. 
Above all, for power generation with fossil fuels and thus for the traditional business of our 
Generation  and Industrial Applications Divisions.    
 
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  10 of 13 I’m convinced that the energy sector will need interim solutions in the foreseeable future if 
the energy transition is to succeed worldwide. When replacing obsolete coal -fired power 
plants with highly efficient c ombined cycle plants, for example. To ensure we can seize these 
opportunities and prevail in this challenging market, we must become more efficient, agile , 
and flexible. We must transform ourselves !    
Our strategy program “Energy of Tomorrow”  
The “Energy of Tomorrow” strategy we presented at the Capital Market Day early in 
September 2020 described the two phases for shaping this transformation. It’s about 
improving the operational performance of Siemens Energy and thus securing  the financial 
leeway needed for shaping the energy transition.    
Concrete action to deliver on the fundamentals  
There are various approaches for  delivering on the fundamentals.  We want to align the 
portfolio with a focus on sustainability and growth. We’ve already made s everal decisions in 
this regard over the past few months. I already mentioned the business with aeroderivative 
gas turbines. In addition, we announced last November that we would no longer be 
participating in new tenders for new exclusively coal -fired powe r plants.    
Last week, we presented other specific plans for improving earnings to the employee 
representatives. They affect all parts of the company: headquarters, businesses, and the 
Regions. Our focus will be on reducing material costs – such as in pro curement – and 
improving internal processes.     
Part of the measures will result in a further reduction of jobs: Worldwide, around 7,800 jobs 
will be affected by 2025. The reasons for these reductions vary from area to area. These job 
cuts will primarily a ffect jobs in administration, in management and in sales.  We will deal 
responsibly with this demanding situation. This involves employees who are committed to 
their work, have a high level of competence, and have supported the company with their 
dedication , often over many decades. Nevertheless, there is simply no alternative to 
improving our profitability; it is the basic requirement for providing sustainable jobs.    
We want to tackle these challenges working together with the employee representatives.   
For our business locations in Germany, the company management, IG Metall, and the 
General Works Council signed the “Future Agreement 2030” a few days ago.  It sets the 
framework for the approach we will be taking to secure the competitiven ess of Germany as a 
business location in the international arena . This also includes increasing our training quota – 
the proportion of trainees and dual education trainees in the overall workforce – even in 
these difficult times .  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  11 of 13 And ensuring  that we defi ne those competencies which are decisive for the energy world of 
the future and establish or expand these competencies  at our locations.    
Ladies and Gentlemen , 
As Siemens Energy , we will concentrate on three areas in the future:  
• First, power generation with ever -lower or zero emissions (we believe the use of 
highly efficient gas turbines is – and will remain – an important interim solution).   
• Second, the efficient transmission and storage of electricity.    
• And third, solutions th at address the consumption side and that reduce CO 2 
emissions in industrial processes.    
The service business plays a crucial role in this strategy. Service business provides  robust 
earnings, long -term relationships with customers, and a high margin quali ty. We want to 
continuously enlarge and strengthen the service business, which already accounts for 40 
percent of the revenue at Gas and Power. Also with the help of digital offers.      
We are carrying out the transformation of Siemens Energy step by step.  For us, this also 
means working closely with customers and partners, where we are stronger as a team. In the 
past year, we entered into cooperations with a large number of partners and customers.  
Some examples :  
• We’re working with  Linde Engineering on solutions for decarbonizing the 
petrochemical industry.   
• Together with our Chinese partner SPIC, we ’re building our first megawatt -range 
plant for producing green hydrogen in China.  
• We recently concluded two partnerships in  Abu Dhabi : We wan t to drive development 
of green hydrogen in the country together with the investment company Mubadala . 
And we are working with  Masdar and partner s on the development of clean, 
hydrogen -based fuels.     
• And we also rely, of course, on close cooperation betwe en Siemens Energy and 
SGRE . One of our lead hydrogen projects is H2Mare. We’d like to develop an 
electrolyzer that produces green hydrogen and that can be directly integrated into an 
offshore wind turbine developed by Siemens Gamesa. In this concept, green 
hydrogen would be produced on the high seas, transported to shore through 
pipelines, and used in transport and industry. The project is part of the H2Mare  
Initiative, which is to be funded by Germany’s Federal Ministry for Education and 
Research.    
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  12 of 13 With the help of these and many other collaborations, we ’re integrating Siemens En ergy into 
sustainable, global innovation networks. In the end, this means understanding market 
developments in good time and acting with foresight.    
The challenges presented by the energy transition can only be mastered with innovative 
technologies and the skills for turning these technologies into solutions.  In the past fiscal 
year, we  at Siemens Energy invested around 1 billion euros in research and development. 
The R&D intensity, defined as the ratio of R&D expenses and revenue, was 3 .6 percent, 
marking a slight increase compared to the previous year.  We want to maintain this focus on 
research and development in the future, despite undertaking cost reductions in other areas of 
the company. We are aligning our development projects with a focus on sustainability and 
service.     
Improving our profitability step b y step  
Our goal is to shape the energy transition and target  growth areas in the energy market to 
drive profitable growth in our company. Even though we still have quite a bit to do in our 
transformation, we’ve been able to prove our capabilities in the past.  For example, in the 
electrification of industries or entire countries, or in our ability to optimally use our database 
for developing digital products and services.    
On the basis of our strategy, we ’re aiming at the step -by-step improvement of our 
profitability.  
• In the past fiscal year, the Adjusted EBITA margin before special items was within our 
forecast range of minus 1 to plus 1 percent.  
• This year, we ’re aiming at 3  to 5 percent.    
• In fiscal 2023 , we want to reach 6.5 to 8.5 percent . 
• And over the medium term, we want to achieve an Adjusted EBITA margin after 
special effects of at least 8 percent.     
A higher margin level is the basic requirement for ensuring the further development of 
Siemens Energy. Only then can we generate the funds necessary for investing in future -
oriented business models, technologies, and markets . We’ve now taken the first step s 
toward this goal.     
 
 
 
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the President and Chief Executive Officer  
 
  Page  13 of 13 We energize society  
Ladies and gentlemen , 
Siemens’ energy business has changed and evolved steadily from its very beginning. In 
1866, Werner von Siemens discovered the dynamo -electric principle and revolutionized the 
world of electricity. It marked the beginning of a new age. Ever since, Siemens’ recipe for 
success has always been to shape change. The energy market is again undergoing a 
transformation, and we are being transformed with it. As a new and independent company, 
Siem ens Energy is resolutely tackling this transformation:  
• by implementing measures to increase profitability step by step ; 
• with a robust network of customers and partners ; 
• with a strong focus on future -oriented technologies and markets,  
• and with a highly committed and motivated team.     
We want to shape the energy world of tomorrow. We want to energize society.  We want to 
become the world’s most valued  energy technology company. And we are already busy 
creating the conditions for achieving this. As you can see, we have big plans. And we will be 
very pleased if you continue accompanying us on our journey . 
Thank you for your trust.  
*** 