Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page 1 from 2 
 
Munich , February 20, 2025  
Joe Kaeser reelected as Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board  of Siemens Energy  
At today's virtual Annual General  Meeting of Siemens Energy AG, the shareholders approved all 
items on the agenda by a large  majority. At its peak, more than 1,074  people followed the webcast 
of the Annual General  Meeting, with 59.9 2 percent of the voting shares represented.  
 
The actions of the Management Board for the past fi scal year 2024  were approved with a  total of 
more than 99 percent  of the votes.  The past fiscal year  closed with net income of EUR 1.3 billion 
and thus with a profit for the first time.  A net loss of EUR 4.6 billion was recorded in the 2023 fi scal 
year.  
 
The Supervisory Board was formally discharged  with an approval ratio  of over 99 percent. In the 
elections to the Supervisory Board, which were held as scheduled after four years on the capital 
side, all candidates standing for election were confirmed by the Annual Gerneral  Meetin g – the 
exact voting results are available on the Siemens Energy website . 
 
At the subsequent constituent meeting of the Supervisory Board, Joe Kaeser was unanimously 
elected as its Chairman. Dr. Hubert Lienhard was also unanimously elected Lead Independent 
Director , whose powers were significantly strengthened by a resolution of the Supervisory Board on 
December 11, 2024. The Lead Independent Director is now a permanent member of the Presiding 
Committee and the Nomination Committee as well as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
In the run -up to the Annual General  Meeting, some  investors had expressed concerns about the 
independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board , although he was never CEO of Siemens 
Energy AG and left the former parent company Siemens AG more than four years ago. The 
appointment and additional responsibilities of the Lead Independent Director will further 
strengthen the quality of corporate governance in the company . 
 
Anja -Isabel Dotzenrath, an independent management consultant in the energy sector  and 
decarbonization of industry, and Dr. Feiyu Xu, Managing Director of Amber Iris AI Consulting GmbH, 
who is to represent the topic of artificial intelligence more strongly, were newly elected to the Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page 2 from 2 
 
Supervisory Board. Ms. Dotzenrath  received 99.77  percent  and Ms. Xu received 98.16  percent  of 
the votes at the Annual General Meeting. Dr. Christine Maria Bortenlänger and Hildegard Müller will 
leave the Supervisory Board as planned.  
 
Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Annual General  Meeting, 
emphasized: "Today's Annual General’s  Meeting has shown that our shareholders are convinced of 
the operational strength and strategic direction of Siemens Energy. The confidence in the 
Managing Board under the leadership of Christian Bruch has been confidently confirmed. The 
structure of the Lead Independent Director function is unique in the German DAX and sends a clear 
signal to strengthen corporate governance in Ger many. I look forward to working with the newly 
elected Supervisory Board and would like to thank the two departing members Christine  
Bortenlänger and Hildegard Müller for their valuable contributions over the past four years."  
 
The next Annual General  Meeting of Siemens Energy AG will take place on February 26, 2026,  as an 
in-person event in Berlin.  
 
 
 
 
Contact  person for journalists  
Oliver Sachgau  
Phone:    +49 (0) 173 272 9231  
E-mail:  sachgau@siemens -energy.com  
 
You can find this press release at www.siemens -energy.com/press  
 
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and service s, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power pla nts operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind 
power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on techno logies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €34.5 billion in fiscal year 2024 . 
www.siemens -energy.com.  