siemens-energy.com/sustainabilitySustainability Report 2022 
Tackling challenges
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 2Dear readers,
Energy is essential for life on earth, for our growth and 
well-being. At the same time, however, global energy-  
related emissions rose to their highest level ever in 
2021, exacerbating the worsening climate crisis. With 
worldwide demand for electricity expected to increase 
by around 25% before 2030, the sustainability of the 
energy sector is a matter of urgency – as is energy 
security, as current geopolitical tensions clearly show.
Facing these issues means resolving the trilemma 
between sustainability, affordability and security of 
energy supply. Balancing these three is the challenge 
we need to tackle on a global scale. 
At Siemens Energy, we are ready for honest 
conversations to enable effective collaboration with 
customers, suppliers, partners and governments. 
For our part, we have the technology, the innovations 
and the expertise to offer solutions along the entire 
value chain. We put sustainability at the heart of our 
company strategy, reflecting all three dimensions: 
Environmental, Social and Governance.We are committed to the Ten Principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact and are guided by the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals. This report shows the 
progress we have made on our journey so far – and it 
demonstrates how we will continue to develop our 
company into what we call an integrated energy 
technology company ready for the future.It is time to act
Christian Bruch  
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer  
Siemens Energy AG
Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Foreword
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 3Performance indicator Unit 2022 2021
Greenhouse gas emissions
Scope 1+2 emissions
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 215 273
thereof SF6 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 35 41
thereof fleet 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 32 29
Scope 3 downstream emissions¹
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 1,323,012 1,369,163
intensity metric tons CO2 e/ 
€ order intake0.035 0.041
Scope 3 upstream emissions²
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 5,081 4,433³
intensity kg CO2 e/€ PVO spent 0.424 0.440³
Energy
Energy consumption million gigajoule 5.80 6.33
Share of green electricity % 90 76Performance indicator Unit 2022 2021
Research & development
Research & development expenses million € 1,078 1,155
Sustainable supply chain management
External sustainability audits at suppliers no. 167 157
Waste
Waste recycling and recovery rate % 81 82
Water
Water consumption million cubic meters 3.45 4.10
Product stewardship
Portfolio coverage by Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) % 72 71
Employees
Share of women in overall workforce % 20 19
Share of women in top leadership positions⁴ % 22 21
Training hours per employee no. 10.3 8.6
Occupational health and safety
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of employees⁵ no. 2.17 2.47
Societal engagement
Donations million € 3.62 4.71Decarbonizing our business Responsible operationsOur sustainability performance 
1 Includes category “use of sold products” only.
2 Includes categories “purchased goods and services“ and “transportation and distribution” only. Without SGRE.
3  Due to the further development and optimization of the CO2 calculation tool, the CO2 emissions for fiscal year 
2021 and fiscal year 2018 (baseline) were recalculated.
4 Without SGRE.
5  Total Recordable Injury Rate: Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.  
Recordable injuries are accidents that result in lost time, restricted work, or medical treatment.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 4Content
3 Responsible operations
Summary page 38/39
Occupational health and safety 40
Zero Harm framework and safety culture
Conservation of resources 45
environmental standards, water and waste
Product stewardship 49
product safety, footprint and material compliance
Sustainable supply chain management 53
engagement, assessment and minerals sourcing
Expert dialogue: Just energy transition 58
Human rights 60
commitment, due diligence and transparency
Compliance and integrity 62
zero-tolerance, training and risk management
Working at Siemens Energy 66
inclusion & diversity, leadership and training
Societal engagement 74
global approach, local action and donations4 Annex
The company and reporting method 78
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial  
Disclosures (TCFD) 79
UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 88
Independent auditor's report on a limited  
assurance engagement 93
Imprint 95Foreword 2
Our sustainability performance  3
Content 4
Highlight story: North Sea Initiative 5
1 The company
Siemens Energy at a glance 9
Expert dialogue: Energy security 11
Strategic focus  13
our portfolio, program and partnerships
2 Decarbonizing our business
Summary page 22
Customers and innovation 23
innovation approach and cybersecurity
Expert dialogue: Renewable hydrogen 28
Decarbonization  30
at customers, in operations and of the supply chain
	 Reference within the report  
		 Link to an external referenceThe company Foreword Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex Content
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 5For decades, the North Sea has played a key role in supplying 
energy to Europe through its oil and gas fields. Now it is set to 
become the continent’s largest climate-neutral energy system by 
2050. By enabling a new level of connectivity and collaboration 
between European countries, Siemens Energy is leading an 
initiative that will see the North Sea help us deliver net zero.North Sea  
Initiative: An  
interconnected, 
low-carbon  
energy systemThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 6Against the backdrop of a deepening climate crisis, the EU made climate 
neutrality – the goal of net zero emissions by 2050 – legally binding in 
2021. It set an interim target of a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030, call-
ing for a “decade of action” to reach this target. The conflict in Ukraine and 
the ensuing energy crisis lends an even greater urgency to accelerating the 
transition toward a diversified supply of renewable energies.
The North Sea has significant potential and particular geological character -
istics that we can use to drive the energy transition. Shallow waters and 
raging winds make it one of the best locations for offshore wind, and the 
geology that kept natural gas in place for millions of years is the perfect 
place to bury carbon dioxide. With locations in all eight countries that bor -
der the North Sea and an extensive range of ongoing projects in offshore 
wind, transmission and storage, Siemens Energy is ideally positioned to 
scale up and deploy new technologies across the region. Most importantly, 
we can draw on our pool of talented people with their diversity of skills, 
experience and backgrounds.
Bringing together combined Siemens Energy expertise was the idea behind 
our new cross-country, cross-business capture team for the North Sea. The 
team works across divisions and businesses to share best practices, align 
strategies and forge partnerships crucial for the energy transition in the 
North Sea.Close collaboration with customers will be key in helping countries meet 
tight decarbonization deadlines, while partnerships within the energy 
industry will allow us to go beyond our own capabilities and be faster and 
more cost-efficient in developing innovations. Our collaboration with 
Equinor is one such example. Siemens Energy has teamed up with the  
Norwegian energy company to help reduce offshore platform emissions by 
providing electrical transmission, distribution and power management sys-
tems at their Troll West oil and gas platforms. 
The North Sea can be as important for our clean energy future as it was for 
the era of fossil fuels. If the transition is successful, it will attract new 
industries, secure jobs and provide green power and energy security. 
Moreover, if an interconnected, low-carbon energy system can be devel-
oped in the North Sea, it can serve as a blueprint for other regions. 
The energy transition in the North Sea demands scale and coordination. At 
Siemens Energy, we have the know-how, mindset and technology to sup-
port the entire energy value chain. We are ready to step up and work with 
everyone to achieve net zero in this critical decade.North Sea Initiative key facts
180+ oil rigs 
in the North Sea that need to be decarbonized¹
440 Gt capacity 
under the North Sea to store CO2² 
>210 GW offshore 
wind capacity
by 2050³ (>100GW by 2030⁴)
¹ Source:  Number of offshore rigs worldwide (Statista, 2018) 
²  Source:  Assessment of CO2 geological storage capacity of saline aquifers under the North Sea Elsevier 
Enhanced Reader (Blunt and Karvounis, 2021) 
³ Source:  Our energy, our future (Wind Europe, 2019)
⁴ Source: Combination of the  Esbjerg pledge (2022) of 65GW and  UK’s 2030 target (2022) of 50GWThe North Sea has significant 
potential and particular 
geological characteristics 
that we can use to drive the 
energy transition.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 7Breaking ground for 
offshore transmission
Maria Kosse is no stranger to complexity. As Siemens Energy’s lead engi-
neer for offshore grid connection systems, her job is to make sure every 
component interacts perfectly. “We are talking about up to 15,000 compo-
nents in 200 subsystems that must be integrated,” says Maria as she sur -
veys the mammoth project at its construction site in Cadiz, Spain.
DolWin kappa is the centerpiece of TenneT’s, leading EU green offshore 
grid operator, DolWin6 grid connection system, a 900-megawatt link that 
will transport offshore wind power from the German North Sea to shore. 
Once installed, the platform will rise 56 meters out of the North Sea, sup-
ported by 10 steel piles anchored up to 50 meters in the seabed. There it 
will receive alternating current from surrounding wind farms and convert 
it into direct current for transport to shore. 
In this aspect, DolWin kappa is unique: it is the first time worldwide that 
direct current gas-insulated switchgear (DC GIS) will be used offshore. 
Drawing on her academic background in high-voltage direct current 
(HVDC) transmission, Maria has been instrumental in the development of 
the DC GIS switchgear at Siemens Energy, from its early phase in 2016 to 
its successful commissioning in 2021. 
The advantage of the DC switchgear is its size. While standard air-insulated 
switchgear takes up around 4,000 cubic meters of space, the DC GIS 
requires only 200 cubic meters. This is a decisive advantage on offshore 
platforms where space is at a premium. With this innovation, Maria and 
her team have broken new ground in developing a space-saving and there-
fore cost-saving grid access technology for offshore wind.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 8The company
Siemens Energy at a glance 9
Expert dialogue: Energy security 11
Strategic focus  131Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 9Siemens Energy at a glance
Our company structure
In fiscal year 2022, the company was divided into two reporting segments, 
Gas and Power (GP) and SGRE:
• Our GP reporting segment includes our Generation, Transmission and 
Industrial Applications Divisions, along with the respective service busi-
ness based on customer groups and product lines, as well as our new 
business venture New Energy Business, developing our business in power-  
to-X technologies, electrolyzer systems and solutions for the production 
of green hydrogen using renewable energy and water.
• Our SGRE reporting segment, in which Siemens Energy holds a 67% 
majority stake, focuses on the design, development, manufacturing, 
supply and installation of products as well as offering technologically 
advanced services for the renewable energy sector with a focus on wind 
turbines for various wind conditions.  
As a listed company, our SGRE reporting segment has an independent sus-
tainability strategy and publishes a separate  SGRE Consolidated Non-Fi-
nancial Statement 2022 . While the strategic direction of both reporting seg-
ments is comparable, management approaches and programs may differ.At Siemens Energy, our mission is to support our customers in transition-
ing to a more sustainable world based on our innovative technologies and 
our ability to turn ideas into reality. Our goal is to become the world’s lead-
ing energy technology company with a focus on sustainability. Our portfo-
lio, extensive energy experience and ambitious strategy to decarbonize 
global energy systems are all central to our efforts to be a valued partner 
and driver of the energy transition.
With our broad portfolio of products, solutions and services, we cover 
almost the entire energy value chain – from low- or zero-emission power 
generation, transmission and storage to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions and optimizing energy consumption in industrial processes. 
Our products include conventional and renewable energy technologies, 
such as gas and wind turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydro-
gen, high-voltage grid access solutions and high-voltage transformers. A 
majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy 
(SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader in wind power.
This wide range of offerings allows us to address the different speeds at 
which the energy transition is moving forward. As of September 30, 2022, 
Siemens Energy employs about 92,000 people in more than 90 countries 
worldwide. Orders
(in billions of €)
~ 38~ 29Revenue
(in billions of €)
~ 97Order backlog
(in billions of €)Key financial indicatorsAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 10New organizational structure
At our Capital Market Day in May 2022, we announced a new organizational 
structure to support the transformation of Siemens Energy with a clear 
focus on environmental, social and governance (ESG). The new organization 
came into effect with the start of the new fiscal year on October 1, 2022. 
Within the new organizational structure, the former Gas and Power segment 
is organized into three Business Areas: Gas Services, Grid Technologies and 
Transformation of Industry. The corresponding financial figures will be pub-
lished regularly, increasing transparency for the capital market significantly.
• Gas Services (GS) combines all business activities related to gas turbines 
and large steam turbines as well as the associated service business of 
the former Generation and Industrial Applications Divisions.
• Grid Technologies (GT) comprises the business of the former Transmis-
sion Division and, in future, the activities relating to energy storage, 
which were previously assigned to Generation.  
• Transformation of Industry (TI) is primarily focusing on the reduction of 
energy consumption and CO2 emissions in industrial processes and com-
prises four independent business operations:
 ›Sustainable Energy Systems (SES), with the former New Energy Busi-
ness and parts of Generation, deals with the topics of hydrogen, elec-
trolyzers, power-to-X and photovoltaics, among others. ›Electrification, Automation and Digitalization (EAD) was previously 
part of Industrial Applications and offers integrated EAD solutions, 
additional services and consulting services.
 ›Industrial Steam Turbines & Generators (STG) comprises parts of the 
Generation and Industrial Applications business portfolios, including 
industrial steam turbines up to 250 megawatts, as well as service and 
industrial generators.
 ›Compression (CP) was previously part of Industrial Applications and 
offers turbo and reciprocating compressors, including service, as well 
as compressor trains and systems.
The new operating model has fewer hierarchy levels, and the leaner struc-
ture is designed to speed up decision-making processes. Approximately 
30% of the previous management positions have been eliminated, with no 
staff laid off in the process. 
Another step in our transformation to a leading energy technology com-
pany with a clear focus on sustainability is the integration of SGRE. 
Siemens Energy announced a voluntary cash tender offer to acquire the 
remaining 33% of shares that are still in free float, with the intention of 
delisting SGRE from the Spanish stock exchanges. By delisting and fully 
integrating SGRE, Siemens Energy can simplify processes further and tran-
sition to a shared corporate structure with flatter hierarchies. The integra-
tion will also strengthen Siemens Energy’s position, creating a holistic 
go-to-market approach and further enhancing customer focus.Our company structure
Gas and PowerSiemens EnergyBefore
1  Transformation of Industry reflecting a total of four independently managed business operations  
(operating segments)Gas ServicesSiemens Energy
Transformation of Industry¹Grid TechnologiesAfter
SGRE
ReconciliationTherein independently
managed business operations
ReconciliationSGREAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 11
Jason Bordoff: It has been many decades that we have 
largely been failing at tackling climate change. And 
now we are failing at energy security too. Europe is 
obviously having immense difficulty making it through 
this winter; next winter may be even harder, and this is 
having ripple effects in many other parts of the world. 
There is a precipitating event, which is Putin’s unjusti-
fied invasion of Ukraine. But we should remember: 
Europe was experiencing an energy crisis even before 
this, and there are a set of underlying factors that I 
think have made it even worse, because we are in a 
moment of transition. And so that leads to tighter 
markets and potential for price spikes and market 
crunches and volatility, which is not just bad economi-
cally and geopolitically, but risks undermining support 
for the energy transition itself.
So the question is: How do we react to this moment?
Christian Bruch: Jason, I agree with much of that, but 
for me it still remains to be seen how energy security 
issues will affect the transition. We are currently not on track with the transition – we might not even be on 
track with security nor on affordability – and we 
should not forget this third element. Because what is 
happening at the moment is that industrialized coun -
tries are exporting their inflation to poorer countries. 
Countries like Bangladesh as well as regions like Africa 
and other parts of Asia, for example, are heavily 
dependent on liquefied natural gas (LNG) imports and 
cannot afford it anymore.
Jason Bordoff: Right, this is having ripple effects in 
many other parts of the world, with rolling blackouts in 
Pakistan and Bangladesh. And coal is at record high 
levels as well. 
Christian Bruch: So, we are seeing that this trilemma 
of energy security, affordability and sustainability is 
closely interlinked, and so far we have not made any 
deliberate choice in any direction. At the moment, it 
has had neither a positive nor negative impact on the 
energy transition, but we have now arrived at a point in 
time when we have to make the hard choices.  
Talking is no longer enough.Will energy security derail the 
energy transition?
The transition to renewable energies will have a decidedly profound impact on the world’s energy  
landscape and magnify already rising concerns about energy security. Christian Bruch and Jason Bordoff 
discuss how sustainability, reliability and affordable energy interconnect.
As President, CEO and Chief Sustainability Officer of 
Siemens Energy, Christian Bruch defines his purpose 
as energizing society. “We want to ensure all people 
have equal opportunities to access to sustainable, 
reliable and affordable energy – no matter where 
they are.”
Jason Bordoff, one of the world’s leading energy 
and climate policy experts, is Founding Director of 
the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia 
University, New York, United States, and previously 
served as Senior Director for Energy and Climate 
Change on the staff of the United States Security 
Council.
Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 12
Jason Bordoff: I think we will never forgive ourselves if 
we look back on this moment of crisis and feel like we 
missed an opportunity to now take the urgency and 
imperative of energy security – meeting people’s 
energy needs securely and affordably – and combine it 
with the urgency of climate action and decarbonization 
to make faster progress toward an energy transition. 
Christian Bruch: Right, there are all the good reasons 
to build up renewables more quickly, to strengthen the 
grid and really bring energy security and sustainability 
closer together. But it also means we have to do certain 
things substantially differently going forward. At the 
moment, there are still measures that are driving up 
CO2 emissions. We are ramping up coal in Europe. We 
will still have a substantial coal fleet for a long time in 
Asia. The current drive to build up renewables barely 
covers the growth in the electricity market and is not 
bringing CO2 down.Jason Bordoff: I think first there needs to be a recogni-
tion that this is almost inevitably going to be a somewhat 
disorderly transition. And we can try to make it as 
well-managed as possible, but there is reason to doubt 
the idea that we will get anywhere close to a goal like net 
zero by 2050 – which is only 27, 28 years away! The scale 
of the transition, the scale of the global energy system, 
the pace of that transition is unprecedented relative to 
anything we have ever seen in the history of energy. And 
we are going to make mistakes along the way.
I lead an organization with the word policy in its name, 
the Center on Global Energy Policy. I would not do that if 
I did not think policy were necessary, but it is certainly 
not sufficient. We are going to need the technologies, 
and Siemens Energy is one of the most important compa-
nies in the world for that.
Christian Bruch: We will need a new era of public-  
private partnership: good policy and strong private 
capital flows, both built on solid plans. Energy infra -
structure needs to be comprehensively rebuilt or extended. But we should not neglect the demand side, 
which we can use to counter some of the volatility 
from generation. Additionally, we need to deal with 
the massive growth in electricity volume – possibly 
tripling in two decades. Industrial policies like those in 
the U.S. are needed to trigger the required grid invest -
ments, and we need to make optimal use of the assets 
we already have – for example, with gas and nuclear. 
Every technology must play its part, and efficiency will 
be vital. 
Jason Bordoff: I think we have touched on the most 
important things. But maybe I will just put a spotlight 
on them again: sustainability, security and affordability. 
If you fail on any one dimension of that, I think you 
actually undermine the pace of the others. The poten-
tial for unrest in Sri Lanka, the iconic yellow vest 
protests in Paris, or if people have trouble paying their 
energy bills, I fear that support for strong climate 
action, which is what we need, may wane as a result.
So, we are going to have to pull every lever we can to 
deal with the immediate urgency of the crisis – finding 
extra supplies, maybe in the near-term ramping up a 
diesel facility or a coal facility here or there, building some new LNG import terminals. But I think the opportu-
nity now is to remember that many of the things that 
would give you greater energy security (more energy effi-
ciency, conservation, more electrification of the 
economy, more use of clean energy) point you in the 
direction of decarbonization as well.
You see examples across Europe and other countries 
where in some cases, the energy crisis is accelerating a 
move toward a different kind of energy system in the 
future. It just takes time to get there.
Christian Bruch: And I can only say: We have to speed 
up. We still have it in our toolbox of possibilities to influ-
ence that. Time is running out, and we really have to 
move to take action. While we continue to add renewable 
energy, we can improve energy efficiency, strengthen 
electrical grids and make use of the existing infrastruc-
ture. We can also develop a clear plan as to which poli-
cymakers and industries can really make decisions. 
No question, we will need to push and develop new 
technologies. But a lot of technologies we need to drive 
substantial change are already available. It is our choice 
whether we want to turn it around.
“Industrialized countries  
are exporting their inflation 
to poorer countries.” 
Christian Bruch, President and CEO, Siemens Energy
“The question is: How do we  
react to this moment?”
Jason Bordoff, Founding Director, The Center on G lobal Energy Policy at  
Columbia University, New York, United States Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 13• We are an integrated energy technology company with a focus on 
sustainability
• We strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero across the 
entire value chain 
• We collaborate closely with global partners, governments and 
think-tanks to accelerate the energy transition
Our world is facing an ever-increasing need for a reliable and affordable 
energy supply to support economic development and ensure stable soci-
eties. But this stability is threatened by a number of major challenges. As 
the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact lives and business around the 
globe, the war in Ukraine has further destabilized global markets, dis-
rupted supply chains and caused energy prices to soar. Meanwhile, the cli-
mate crisis has clearly reached emergency levels, and urgent action is 
required if we are to meet the Paris Agreement target of limiting the global 
temperature rise to 1.5°C. Adding to the trilemma of availability, reliability 
and sustainability, the issue of energy security has now moved further into 
focus. Nevertheless, our priority at Siemens Energy is clear: fostering sus-
tainability along the value chain. 
With our portfolio that spans across the energy value chain and our global 
setup, we are in a unique position to shape the energy transition and sup-
port global development toward net zero.Our strategy for the energy transition
Since Siemens Energy became an independent company in 2020, we have 
moved the company into an improved market position, established a 
healthy order backlog, introduced operational improvements and made 
first steps toward a sustainable portfolio. 
We have established our company strategy on the three pillars: 
• Low- or zero-emission power generation  
We are continually developing new products and technologies that have 
either zero emissions or significantly lower emissions, in both service 
and new units. Our SGRE reporting segment plays an essential role in 
the transition to zero-emission power generation.
• Transport and storage of electricity  
We are developing new products, services and solutions for the trans-
port and storage of electricity, thereby expanding our transmission and 
hydrogen business.
• Reducing GHG footprint and energy consumption in industrial  
processes  
We are helping our process industry customers to realize sustainable 
concepts for their brownfield facilities and for future installations. This overarching strategy is broken down into divisional, functional and 
regional plans. It is refined through a regular strategic planning process. 
This allows us to adapt to changing market trends and customer require-
ments quickly while providing a clear strategic direction.
We shape our existing business through a strategic program by developing 
our portfolio with a focus on sustainability and service, while becoming a 
data-driven company that creates value through digitalization, connectiv -
ity and automation.Strategic focus 
Sustainable energy is a critical driver for growth and prosperity worldwide.  
That is why sustainability is core to our company strategy and guides our transformation.
We focus on building our company based on three strategic pillars:Our strategic pillars
Reducing GHG footprint 
and energy consumption 
in industrial processesTransport and  
storage of electricityLow- or zero-emission 
power generationAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 14The first phase of the program, called “Accelerating impact”, focuses on 
delivering the fundamentals, co-creating innovations with customers and 
partners and shifting research and development (R&D) expenditures 
toward sustainable products and services. In this area, we continue to 
make substantial progress:
• We are shaping our portfolio with a focus on sustainability and service: 
We are planning a shift in our R&D toward the five fields of action (see 
chapter 	Customers and innovation )
• We have a strong order backlog of €62.4 billion at GP and €35.1 billion  
at SGRE
• Our market position has improved: We are for the first time market 
leader for gas turbines greater than 10 MW in fiscal year 2022
• We drove operational improvement: We optimized our capacities and 
increased productivity
The second phase of the program, called “Leading the energy transforma-
tion”, will lay out measures to become a sustainability leader in the indus-
try, electrify countries and communities in a sustainable, affordable and 
reliable manner and become a company that creates value for our differ -
ent stakeholders through data-driven insights, automation and digitaliza-
tion. Due to the market acceleration toward sustainability, we have started 
implementing the second phase one year earlier than planned.
Since the start of Siemens Energy in 2020, we have made substantial oper -
ational progress as well as portfolio changes. We are now planning the 
next level of activities to support our ambition to shape the energy transi-
tion. As a first step, we are reorganizing our company with a view to create 
the agility, focus and accountability necessary to steer our business 
through a continuously changing environment. We aim to address the sus-
tainability  of  power generation, the coal-to-gas shift, the decentralization 
of energy supply and getting the existing infrastructure ready to serve a 
more sustainable energy world. Also, we want to help the process indus-
tries to reflect on the changes they are facing. As part of its long-term strategy, SGRE introduced “Mistral”, a new program 
that covers all areas of the business and prepares SGRE to meet the fore-
casted high demand in the wind energy industry. It is designed to lead 
SGRE to sustainable and profitable growth.
Despite the positive outlook for wind equipment manufacturers, chal-
lenges include rising raw material and commodity prices, supply chain dis-
ruptions, internal process delays and high production costs. 
To address these challenges, three core actions in Mistral were introduced 
in fiscal year 2022 that will take place over three time frames: 
• Product maturity and cost security in the short term: dedicated working 
groups to address the product maturity of the SGRE 5.X platform and to 
reduce non-conformance costs 
• Margin growth in the medium term: developing sales, increasing product 
competitiveness, streamlining the organization and using capital efficiently 
• Maximizing the company's potential in the long term: portfolio analysis 
to allow for standardization, a revised operating model and supply chain 
consolidations
Global annual investment in the energy sector should reach €4.2 trillion by 
2030, 50% of which should be invested in power generation and transmis-
sion technologies1. At Siemens Energy, we aim to be in a leading market 
position in each of our business areas, with a clear focus on innovation to 
develop new technologies that foster the energy transition. We have spent 
roughly €1 billion on R&D each year over the past three years (see chapter 
 Customers and innovation ).
We provide a broad variety of products, solutions and services to our cus-
tomers. As our customers are transitioning toward sustainable energy sys-
tems – and they all are at different points in their journey – we need to 
ensure that our products and services remain relevant in the future. There-
fore, going forward, we aim to continuously develop these products and 
services to provide the profitability and cash flow we expect and aim to 
amend our portfolio accordingly.
1 Source: IEA Net Zero Scenario.Power exchange between the UK and France 
through the Channel Tunnel
The integration of European power markets has taken a major 
step forward with the installation of a new 1000-megawatt 
HVDC power transmission system between the United Kingdom 
and France. Using Siemens Energy’s innovative design and 
technology, a 51-kilometer-long direct current cable was 
installed inside the Channel Tunnel that connects converter sta-
tions in Peuplingues in France and Cheriton in the UK. The sys-
tem enables electricity to circulate between the two countries 
as needed. The biggest challenge in the design and planning 
process was ensuring the safety of the transmission system 
within the Channel Tunnel. Thorough investigation and mea-
surement campaigns were carried out to ensure that the trans-
mission system will not affect rail traffic through the tunnel.
Direct connection: HVDC transmission system between UK and EuropeAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 15Digitalization
Digitalization is one of the key levers to help the energy industry in its 
ongoing transition. At Siemens Energy, we are harnessing the power of 
data to accelerate sustainability using solutions to:
• Optimize consumption in our installed equipment: this combines our deep 
domain expertise of the equipment and advanced analytics techniques. 
• Measure and certify end-to-end value chain compliance: for example, 
we have developed certification of green hydrogen via blockchain.
• Accelerate sustainability: new computing capabilities are allowing us to 
accelerate simulations of how new technologies will behave.
The common thread in all these approaches is our capability to simulate 
impacts of complete energy systems. This allows us to orchestrate energy 
systems to satisfy demand with minimum emissions. We can then operate 
with the optimum combination of renewable and fossil fuel sources, while 
minimizing degradation of individual units of equipment.In accordance with our ambition to become a leader in sustainability in the 
industry, we have started to apply sustainability criteria in portfolio deci-
sions. This includes evaluating portfolio elements against EU Taxonomy 
criteria (see chapter 	Decarbonization  and  SGRE Consolidated Non-Finan-
cial Statement 2022, G.2 Eligible activities ).
Reaching for net zero
In May 2022, we announced we would increase our climate action target 
with the long-term ambition to become net zero across the value chain 
(see chapter 	Decarbonization ). This will require smaller and larger adjust-
ments in our portfolio such as further SF6-free products, the shift to green 
hydrogen and the development of battery energy storage. As early as 
November 2020, we announced that we will no longer participate in new 
tenders for power plants that will run exclusively on coal. For a transition 
period, we will continue to offer equipment for highly efficient applica-
tions such as combined heat and power generation, biomass co-firing and 
waste heat recovery, and will honor existing commitments. In April 2022, 
we also signed an agreement to divest our gas engine business to Mutares 
in fiscal year 2023.
To successfully combat climate change, we must begin decarbonizing our 
energy systems now. For the short to mid-term, power generation with 
natural gas will play a central role as a bridging fuel. Gas has lower CO2 
emissions compared to coal, supports energy security in times in which 
little to no energy can by generated by the sun or wind, can be transported 
cost-effectively and serves as energy storage. With our gas turbine busi-
ness, we support our customers with low- or zero-emission power genera-
tion technology. For example, in the Stockholm Exergi project, a gas tur -
bine plant with an SGT-800 gas turbine is planned to run on 100% green 
liquid fuel by 2025.
Still, we are facing diverse challenges around the world. We will need mul-
tiple technological solutions to provide regions with a sustainable energy 
supply for the future. Several key regions have already outlined targets, 
including large-scale investment in infrastructure and decarbonization. 
Siemens Energy is committed to deliver this support through our regional 
organization.Sustainable decisions
As a company with a strong focus on sustainability, it is essential that we 
integrate the consideration of ESG criteria in our decisions. At GP, we have 
done so by integrating a mandatory sustainability component in our quali-
fication for suppliers with a purchasing volume above €10,000 and by con-
ducting ESG due diligence in sales (see chapter 	Customers and innova-
tion). Furthermore, we have developed a list of questions to be used when 
analyzing our merger and acquisition activities. 
In fiscal year 2022, we went one step further and developed a criteria cata-
logue and scoring methodology to evaluate the ESG impacts of current 
and potential portfolio elements, considering both risks and opportunities. 
We are currently working on an evaluation approach for R&D and venture 
activities, taking ESG criteria such as climate impacts into consideration. 
Finally, it is a mandatory requirement in our capital expenditure (CapEx) 
projects with large investment sums to evaluate their GHG impact using a 
CO2 shadow price of €100 per metric ton CO2e.Presidential Power Initiative (PPI)
The Presidential Power Initiative is the Nigerian government’s flagship program 
to resolve challenges in its power grid that hamper the supply of electricity to its 
219 million citizens. In July 2019, the Nigerian government signed an implemen-
tation agreement with Siemens AG (now Siemens Energy and Siemens AG) to 
execute the project in three phases.
The first project phase began in 2022, in which Siemens Energy is delivering in 
batches a total of 10 units of 132/33kV mobile high voltage substations and 
132/33kV transformers to locations around Nigeria. This mobile equipment will 
help generate more power, reducing the country’s reliance on diesel generators 
and thereby lowering pollution levels and emissions. Organizers behind the ini-
tiative hope that a more reliable power supply will enhance economic activity in 
the medium and small-scale sector and create more jobs for Nigerians.
Successful customer acceptance test at Transformer Factory Dresden, GermanyAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 16High impactMedium impact
Low impact
Our impact on the  
Sustainable Development Goals
We have clustered the SDGs according 
to the impact we can have on them.Our commitment to sustainability
Sustainability is firmly anchored in our company strategy. We aim to 
become the integrated energy company of the future – combining a global 
and local approach with solutions along the complete value chain and a 
focus on sustainability. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) guide 
us in our ambition to become a sustainability leader in the industry. To 
ensure our efforts have the biggest impact, we focus on five SDGs: 
•  To achieve SDG 5 “Gender Equality”, we are striving to create equal 
opportunities, in the firm belief that not just our company, but society 
as a whole can benefit from inclusion and diversity. 
• By providing reliable, cost-effective and sustainable energy for our cus-
tomers, we are contributing to SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy”. 
• We cover SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth” with the innova-
tive power of our global operations, which stimulate economic develop-
ment in many countries and creates decent, future-proof jobs.
• Meanwhile, our products, services and solutions for decarbonizing 
energy systems worldwide contribute to SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation 
and Infrastructure”. 
• We enact SDG 13 “Climate Action” by helping our customers reduce GHG 
emissions and by working toward a net zero goal across the value chain. Our Sustainability Program
Our Sustainability Program focuses on the most relevant topics that help 
us achieve our ambition to become a sustainability leader in the industry 
while contributing to the most relevant SDGs. It is also oriented toward our 
company purpose, “We energize society”. 
To establish the Sustainability Program, we conducted a materiality analy -
sis in fiscal year 2020 to identify topics of relevance for business and soci-
ety by engaging in dialogue with selected internal and external stakehold-
ers. The key sustainability issues for our company serve, among other 
things, as a basis for reporting. We repeated this materiality analysis in fis-
cal year 2021 to reflect the voices of relevant external stakeholder groups 
such as customers, investors and partners.
At the core of our Sustainability Program is the goal to deliver sustainable 
energy systems along the entire value chain (see chapter 	Decarboniza-
tion). Different topics around responsible operations reflect Siemens 
Energy’s determination to take its ambition seriously by implementing 
respective programs.
Our businesses, regional entities and central Functions are responsible for 
implementing the Sustainability Program. Details can be found in the indi-
vidual chapters of this report.Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 17Implementing and managing the Sustainability 
Program 
All sustainability activities are led by our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), 
who is also the CEO of our company. Sustainability is a regular topic on the 
agenda of Executive Board meetings, Supervisory Board meetings, and in 
wider leadership meetings.
We have also established a Sustainability Council that meets on a regular 
basis and consists of decision makers representing Divisions, Regional 
Hubs and Functions. The Sustainability Council strategically oversees the 
implementation of the Sustainability Program by making decisions, setting 
priorities and focal points where needed, providing resources for imple-
mentation and being sustainability ambassadors both inside and outside 
of Siemens Energy. Our CEO, Christian Bruch, chairs the Council in his role 
as CSO. 
The Vice President of Sustainability manages the Sustainability depart-
ment, which is responsible for driving sustainability within Siemens Energy 
and for coordinating the company-wide sustainability activities, programs 
and measures. As part of the new operating structure of the company, the 
Function “Strategy & Sustainability” reports directly to the CEO/CSO.
Furthermore, we have the goal to ensure all sustainability measures and ini-
tiatives are implemented in our organization and business activities. The 
respective organizational units have nominated sustainability business part-
ners who implement the company program in their areas of responsibility. 
The importance of sustainability for Siemens Energy is also reflected in our 
long-term equity-based compensation. This is granted to the members of 
the Executive Board and selected senior executives in the form of Stock 
Awards for reaching non-financial targets in strategic ESG areas of Siemens 
Energy operations. For more information, please see our  Siemens Energy  
Annual Report 2022, Compensation Report .Employee mental health & well-beingResults of the materiality analysis
Greenhouse gas emissions related to our 
products, services and solutions
Product safetyGreenhouse gas emissions 
related to our supply chain
Product efficiency
Occupational health & safety
Business model 
resilienceEnergy consumption from renewablesNon-discrimination & 
equal opportunitiesCompany transformationGreenhouse gas emissions 
in own operationsShift toward a more 
sustainable portfolioProduct quality
PollutionHuman rightsEnergy efficiencyCybersecurity
Sectors of concern
Fair labor practices
Inclusion & diversity
Compliance
Responsible supply chain
Impact Stakeholder relevanceAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 18SGRE has its own sustainability approach, reflected in the Sustainability 
Vision 2040 (see  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2022 ). In 
addition, SGRE underlined its commitment to sustainability by appointing 
their Chief Operating Officer (COO) to also take over as Chief Sustainability 
Officer (CSO) in June 2022.
Our ESG ratings show that we are on track with our Sustainability Program 
and in achieving our targets. Both the GP and SGRE reporting segments are 
rated by various ESG rating agencies, such as ISS ESG, Sustainalytics, MSCI 
ESG and CDP. The ratings support the objective assessment of our organi-
zation and identify areas for improvement. For more information on GP’s 
ESG ratings and rankings, please visit our corporate website. Information 
on SGRE’s latest ESG ratings is available on their website.
Sustainability-related risks and opportunities 
To provide a comprehensive view of our business activities, we analyze 
risks and opportunities by combining bottom-up and top-down 
approaches. Sustainability-related risks and opportunities are identified by the respective management of our organizational units. Our Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) system takes a net-risk approach and aims to 
ensure that the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are fully 
informed about significant risks on time. 
In fiscal year 2022, we further developed the ERM to better reflect the 
long-term effects of climate change on Siemens Energy by adding a “Cli-
mate” category to the four existing categories. This allowed us to expand 
the conventional three-year, short-term reporting scope to mid-term (3-5 
years) and long-term (5-30 years) climate-related risks, improving our 
understanding of the development of climate-related risks over time. 
While assessing the impact of a risk, we need to consider how fast an expo-
sure will impact the organization and how resilient the organization is 
upon its occurrence. Therefore, vulnerability (susceptibility of a company 
in terms of a company’s adaptive and coping capacity regarding a specific 
risk) and velocity (speed of occurrence of a specific risk impacting the 
organization) are fundamental characteristics to be respected, in particular 
when assessing transitional and physical climate-related risks.Our Sustainability Program
We  
energize  
societyDecarbonizing
our business
Responsible
operations•  Climate-neutral own  
operations
• Product stewardship• Employee engagement
•  Conservation of resources•  Decarbonized products,  
services and solutions  
for customers
• Societal engagement• Human rights• Compliance & integrity•  Decarbonized supply chain
• People development• Inclusion & diversity•  Occupational health & safety
»  on a scale from  
AAA to CCC
» on a scale from A to D-Rating scores
A
B
» low risk#7 of 218 »  1st decile rank  
in industryB- Prime
Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 19For fiscal year 2022, the following risks with significant sustainability rele-
vance were reported within the ERM:
• Critical supply chain
• Market and price development (e.g., shift from conventional toward 
renewable energy in the markets)
• Technology/portfolio gap compared to competitors
• Threats to cybersecurity, including product and solution security
• Climate change and decarbonization trend
• Pandemic diseases 
• Adverse environment, health and safety (EHS) events
• Adverse developments in financial and bank markets (e.g., financing 
restrictions due to sustainability prerequisites) 
• Requirements arising from ESG standards 
• Allegation of compliance violation
For information related to these risks, please refer to the  Siemens Energy  
Annual Report 2022, Report on material risks and opportunities . A detailed 
description of climate-related risks and opportunities can be found in our Task 
Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) section in the 	Annex .
We are continually taking steps to reduce our sustainability-related risk 
exposure within the organization and across the value chain by imple-
menting risk management systems adapted to specific industries and 
responsibilities. On the other hand, risk mitigation actions also represent 
opportunities for our business, for example innovations that support the 
energy transition and streamlining of internal processes.
With ongoing developments in national and international reporting require-
ments, we collaborate internally and with external partners to analyze new 
regulations and standards, voice our position on them in cross-industrial tral to our sustainability strategy. Their feedback helps us respond quickly 
to dynamic market requirements, global developments and future trends. 
This approach is in line with SDG 17, which calls for a global partnership 
that brings together governments, civil society, the private sector, the UN 
and other stakeholders.
Close collaboration with different stakeholders is necessary to tackle the 
complex challenges we are facing. Working on these problems across orga-
nizations using a full range of resources, perspectives and experience can Formats of  
engagementStakeholder 
group
Topics we 
engage onEmployees
All hands meetings, open 
sessions between leaders 
and employees (ask me 
anything), location visits, 
letters by Board Members, 
emails, training sessions, 
Yammer communication, 
awards
Health & safety, culture, 
inclusion & diversity, inno-
vation, employee develop-
ment, company strategy 
and organizational topicsCustomers
Conferences, trade fairs, 
bilateral engagement,  
questionnaires (e.g.,  
EcoVadis, NQC)
Decarbonization roadmaps, 
Sustainability Program, 
product-related topics,  
project due diligenceStakeholder engagement
Politics, associations,  
civil society
UN Global Compact, indus-
try-specific forums and con-
ferences, local engagement, 
participation in One Young 
World summit, industry 
associations, direct govern-
mental contacts (ministries, 
parliament, etc.)
Sustainability, decarbon-
ization, energy security, 
global challenges, business 
supportShareholders and  
capital market
Quarterly earnings calls, 
Annual Report, annual 
shareholder's meeting,  
regular roadshows and 
conference participation, 
investor relations website
Sustainability Program and 
targets, sustainable portfo-
lio, energy transition, social 
engagement and corporate 
governance topicsBanks,  
financial institutions
Mandatory reporting and 
information (e.g., Annual 
Report, Sustainability 
Report), bilateral meetings 
(know your customer 
process)
Sustainability performance, 
ESG-linked financingSuppliers
Initiatives (e.g., Responsible 
Minerals Initiative, European 
Partnership for Responsible 
Minerals (EPRM), OECD 
Multi-Stakeholder Steering 
Group (MSG), Copper Mark), 
supplier days, workshops, 
bilateral engagement
Sustainability performance, 
decarbonization, responsi-
ble minerals sourcing
associations and assess their importance for and effects on Siemens Energy. 
One example of this engagement is our participation in the Sustainable 
Finance Advisory Committee of the German Federal Government that aims 
to turn Germany into a leading location for sustainable finance.
Stakeholder engagement and collaborations
We firmly believe that sustainable development can only be achieved 
through the cooperation of a diverse set of actors. Regular dialogue with 
our stakeholders on the issues that affect our business and society is cen-Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 20lead to better innovation and business outcomes that benefit society. In 
our new Corporate Center in Berlin, Energy Sphere, we aim to lead a dia-
logue with politicians, customers and other stakeholders from around the 
world and showcase technologies to master the energy transition.
The exchange of knowledge through these engagements creates value on 
all sides and reduces risks externally and internally. At Siemens Energy, we 
continuously analyze existing partnerships and memberships. We are also 
continually establishing new relationships with investors, customers, sup-
pliers, employees, communities, policymakers, media, non-governmental 
organizations, business organizations and academia. We are a signatory to 
the  UN Global Compact (UNGC) , pledging our commitment to its Ten Prin-
ciples, and are a member of econsense, the German sustainability network.
We actively engage in political bodies, for example in the Roundtable on 
clean hydrogen in the energy sector, of which our CEO is the chairman, or 
in Nigeria with the Presidential Power Initiative. We partner closely with 
government think tanks, for example in China, where Siemens Energy col-
laborates with the State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC), one of the 
world’s leading power generation companies with the largest installed 
capacity of solar power. Through our engagement on the board of  
Norwegian Energy Solutions we support business leaders in their endeavor 
to accelerate the energy transition, drawing on their broad expertise in the 
oil and gas industries.As part of our partnership with the International Renewable Energy Agency 
(IRENA), Siemens Energy is participating in a workstream that focuses on 
the assessment of energy healthcare facilities in Burkina Faso. In Septem-
ber 2022, the new IRENA Decarbonization Alliance was announced that 
aims to facilitate dialogue on decarbonization. 
We are continuing to host our “Energy Weeks” throughout the year. The 
events consist of three-day virtual sessions that bring together global 
energy businesses, market leaders, policymakers and government repre-
sentatives to discuss regional challenges and opportunities facing the 
energy sector in its transformation toward decarbonized energy systems.
Joint white paper on China’s low-carbon 
energy development 
In China, Siemens Energy has teamed up with the State 
Power Investment Corporation (SPIC), the world’s largest 
solar power generation company and one of the largest 
energy companies in China, to study policy trends and 
the low-carbon development of counties across the 
nation. It also analyzed typical development patterns, 
drew comparisons between China and Germany and rec-
ommended roadmaps for the low-carbon development 
of China at the county level. The research was published 
in a white paper and released by Siemens Energy CEO 
Christian Bruch and SPIC Chairman Qian Zhimin in late 
2022 to coincide with the 50th anniversary of German-  
Chinese diplomatic relations.
Roadmap for low-carbon development in ChinaAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 21Decarbonizing our business
Customers and innovation 23
Expert dialogue: Renewable hydrogen 28
Decarbonization  302The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 22Summary page
Customers and innovation
Innovation is key to creating the future. We value co-creation and 
partner with our customers to decarbonize energy systems.
Innovation is the core of our business. Our simple, fast and  
unified approach to R&D has three elements:46 
Net Promoter Score (NPS)¹
€ 1.1  billion 
investment in R&DFocus 
We select, prioritize  
and commit to ideas 
from a strategic 
perspectiveAccelerate 
We accelerate ideas 
to maturity through 
dedicated channelsSustain 
We strive for  
tangible returns and 
measurable value 
creation
¹ Index measuring willingness of customers to recommend a company’s products or services to others.Decarbonization
Climate neutrality  
in our own operations  
by 2030
SGRE: net zero by 2040Net zero  
supply chainNet zero  
products, services  
and solutionsOur strategy to decarbonize global energy systems is based on our aspiration 
to reach net zero across the entire value chain, in line with the 1.5°C target.
Target reduction  
of relative Scope  
1 + 2 GHG emissions³ 
by 2025:  
46%
² kg CO2e/€ PVO spent, base year 2018; reporting segment GP. ³ from a 2019 base; reporting segment GP. ⁴ SBTi = Science Based Targets initiative.Target reduction  
of relative Scope 3  
GHG emissions in our  
supply chain by 2030²:  
30%Status 11%
Target reduction  
of SF6 emissions 
compared to 2019:  
60%Status 52%Status 50% Status 12%
Status 90%Commitment  
via SBTi⁴:  
28%  
reduction of GHG from 
the use of sold products  
by 2030³
Target:  
100%  
share of renewable 
electricity by 2023The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 23• Increased focus on our customers, transparency, accountability  
and a unified go-to-market approach as part of the new organiza-
tional structure
• Global integration fortification: we interconnect products, services, 
regions and industries worldwide
• Continuous investment in innovation and R&D to ensure competi-
tiveness on the renewable energy market  
Our mission continues to be to support our customers in transitioning to a 
more sustainable world. We do this by providing technologies for a sus-
tainable, affordable and reliable energy supply and bringing our ability to 
turn ideas into reality. The global energy sector is transforming, with many 
of our customers facing long-term, disruptive changes to their business 
models. Advancing digitalization, the need to decarbonize and increas-
ingly decentralized energy production are leading to more competition, 
more complexity and less predictability throughout the industry. We are 
pursuing new business opportunities in electrification, renewable energy, 
green hydrogen, grid modernization and resilience, energy storage and 
power-to-X technologies as a logical result of these developments.
In taking this action, Siemens Energy contributes to the following SDGs: 
SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy”, SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic 
Growth”, SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure”, SDG 12 “Respon-
sible Consumption and Production” and SDG 13 “Climate Action”. Our innovative company culture is based on a common mission and on 
trust. Across the company, our mindset is guided by four main values: car -
ing, accountability, respect and agility. We communicate openly and 
authentically with one another, as we see this as the foundation for suc-
cessful innovation. Our “Honestly” campaign reflects our innovation cul-
ture – we say what truly needs to be said so that we can better drive trans-
formation forward together at speed.
Solutions that continue to serve our customers
We support our customers along the entire energy value chain with our 
integrated energy technologies and our ability to connect the dots 
between our offerings, regions and industries. We bridge a wide range of 
industries and foster the transfer of know-how between them – from 
power generation through to transmission and storage, from Europe to the 
U.S. and Asia-Pacific.
We are increasing our customer focus, transparency and accountability.  
On April 1, 2022, GP implemented our new account management system 
and a new go-to-market approach, which is an integral part of our new 
operating model. The approach sets out clear responsibilities for Divisions, 
Regional Hubs and Corporate Functions to foster transparency, simplify 
processes and speed up our service (see chapter 	Siemens Energy at a 
glance ). To foster responsible business practices in our customer projects, GP has implemented an ESG due diligence approach early in the sales pro-
cess. This has already contributed to the decision not to bid for projects 
where environmental and/or social risks are not acceptable.
GP uses the Net Promoter Score (NPS) to measure customer satisfaction by 
asking the question, "How likely is it that you would recommend Siemens 
Energy to a colleague or business partner?" In fiscal year 2022, we conducted 
a total of approximately 3,900 NPS interviews and received an NPS result of 
46 (2021 result was 45)¹. This result is a combination of the results from the 
global annual Customer Insight Survey and the project-related operational 
surveys conducted throughout the year. Given the challenging external envi-
ronment in fiscal year 2022, we see a one-point improvement as relatively 
positive. Our goal, however, is to continuously improve our customers' satis-
faction. The individual Businesses evaluate the specific responses, follow 
up with the customers personally and take the necessary steps to improve 
customer experience (e.g., process amendments, training measures).
The SGRE reporting segment has its own organizational setup. Please see 
the  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2022, A.1 Siemens Gamesa 
at a glance .
Innovation that continues to make a difference
The world and our customers need innovative, sustainable solutions for 
the energy systems of the future. Beyond its focus on decarbonization, GP 
is also developing a set of criteria to screen our innovation portfolio for 
further sustainability risks and opportunities. These criteria are based on 
EU Taxonomy criteria, our focus SDGs and further internationally estab-
lished frameworks, such as the Paris Agreement.  Collaboration and partnerships are invaluable for developing our diverse 
portfolio of innovative technologies and continuing to offer our customers 
tailor-made energy solutions.Customers and innovation
¹ NPS ranges from -100 to +100, subtracting % of scores between 1-6 (Detractors) from % of scores of 9-10 (Promoters).Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 24Strengthening the core, growing from the core and transforming the 
future – supported by our nine technology fields – continue to be the 
three main aspects of our GP innovation strategy. We continue to develop 
our five fields of action, focusing on energy landscape transformation and 
the sustainability of our portfolio.
Five fields of action:
• Decarbonized heat and industrial processes: high-temperature heat 
pumps, fuel cells, industrial waste heat recovery 
• Power-to-X: direct air capture, offshore hydrogen, e-chemicals/fuels
• Resilient grids and reliability: asynchronous rotating energy system 
stabilizers (ARESS), grid automation, Sensproducts™, remote operations 
services
• Condition-based service interventions: digital twins for energy con-
sumption, autonomous operation, reliability or microgrids
• Energy storage: li-ion batteries, long-duration energy storage, redox flow We have identified and selected specific technologies for short-term, mid-
term and long-term research and development within the five fields of 
action as the foundation for our simple, fast and unified process to build 
business in support of the Three Pillars of GP:
• Low- or zero-emission power generation
• Transport and storage of electricity
• Reducing our GHG footprint and energy consumption in industrial  
processes
Our GP Technology and Innovation (TI) Council² continues to meet quar -
terly with all Executive Board members, Division Heads and our Chief  
Technology Officer, overseeing our activities and expenditures in the five 
fields of action, nine technology fields and R&D in general. Three elements 
are unchanged and of key importance in the implementation of our inno-
vation approach:
1. Focus: We select, prioritize and commit to ideas from a strategic per -
spective 
2. Accelerate: We accelerate ideas to maturity through dedicated channels:
• Product and technology development – to adjust and accelerate 
Siemens Energy’s portfolio within company-wide guidelines
• Strategic partnering – to develop our innovation ecosystem
• Start-up collaboration – through venture clienting and venture capital 
• Venture building – to grow and spin out internal ventures
3. Sustain: We strive for tangible returns and measurable value creation 
through business case realization, integrating ideas into our operative 
business
² TI Council does not include SGRE.Ramping up electrolyzer production for hydrogen 
and e-methanol
Siemens Energy is helping to accelerate renewable hydrogen  
production worldwide by scaling up the production of large-scale 
electrolyzers. In June, we announced a joint venture with Air  
Liquide, a world leader in gases, technologies and service for 
industry and health, to build a multi-gigawatt factory for our elec-
trolysis stacks in Berlin. Based on proton exchange membrane 
electrolysis technology, these stacks will be highly efficient and 
ideally suited to harvest volatile renewable energy. The factory 
will supply stacks to both companies for their respective range  
of customers and serve the rapidly growing market.
In Denmark, Siemens Energy has secured an order from European 
Energy for the delivery of an electrolyzer plant. The Danish devel-
oper and operator of green energy projects is developing the 
world’s first large-scale commercial e-methanol production facility 
using green hydrogen from a 50-megawatt electrolyzer plant by 
Siemens Energy. The plant is to be built in Kassø, in the south of 
Denmark. Through its proximity to European Energy’s 300-mega-
watt solar park in Kassø, the project will have access to the low-
cost renewable electricity needed to produce cost-effective e-fuel.  Growing market: highly efficient electrolyzer stacks
Three elements for successful innovation
We select, prioritize and 
commit to ideas from a 
strategic perspective
Identify
Visualize
Filter & commitFocus
Prod./tech. development
Strategic partnering
Venture buildingStart-up engagementWe accelerate ideas 
to maturity through 
dedicated channelsAccelerate
We strive for tangible 
returns and measurable 
value creationSustain
Time to impact &
business case realization
Integrate into  
operative business
Assetize as appropriateAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 25R&D at SGRE is focused on developing the next generation of technology 
that will lead to improved and more cost-effective products, solutions and 
services. SGRE is developing reliable and efficient wind turbines for both 
onshore and offshore applications to reduce the Levelized Cost of Energy 
(LCoE) and solutions for hybridization that are designed to help utility cus-
tomers optimize the use of renewable energy and its production of green 
hydrogen. SGRE is also exploring opportunities in adjacent business fields, 
including other renewable energy sources, hybrid parks and storage in 
order to deliver solutions for the system integration of renewables.The SGRE innovation culture team specifically supports the above with  
company-wide design thinking training sessions and team workshops for 
employees as required. These include, for example, a series of in-person 
internal workshops on innovation tools to solve specific challenges,  
started in 2022. 
Continuous product upgrades and designs of its onshore and offshore tur -
bines to reduce the LCoE and/or increase annual energy production are 
aimed at strengthening the company’s competitiveness. SGRE product inno-vations have received recognition in the industry. For example, the offshore 
turbine 14-222 DD won the "Product Innovation of the Year" award issued by 
the German Renewable Awards in November 2021.
For more details, please refer to the  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement 2022, A.1.6 Innovation, Research & Development .
In fiscal year 2022, Siemens Energy invested €1,078 million in R&D (fiscal 
year 2021: €1,155 million). The resulting research intensity, defined as the 
ratio of R&D expenses to revenue, was 3.7% (fiscal year 2021: 4.1%). Addi-
tions to capitalized development expenses amounted to €193 million (fis-
cal year 2021: €188 million) in fiscal year 2022. Around 18,300 (September 
30, 2021: 18,300) patents were held by Siemens Energy as of September 
30, 2022. On average, we had about 5,300 (fiscal year 2021: 4,900) R&D 
employees in fiscal year 2022.Floating wind farms
Floating wind farm technology is offering new opportunities to har -
ness clean offshore wind energy further out to sea, where the winds 
are stronger and more consistent but the sea is too deep to build fixed 
turbines. Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy is a pioneer in the float-
ing wind farm market and is involved in several projects in the North 
Sea, including the Karmoy demonstration project off the coast of  
Norway and the Hywind Scotland commercial wind farm. Its latest 
project, Hywind Tampen, was installed in 2022, 140 kilometers off  
the coast of Norway, at a water depth of 260 to 300 meters. The 11 
turbines are moored on floating cylindrical spar buoys and anchored 
to the seabed by chains.
Hywind Tampen, pioneering floating offshore wind technology
Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 26Innovation beyond our company borders
We know that we cannot fulfill our mission alone. Our external partner -
ships are valued for their potential to fulfill future business needs. Collabo-
ration is crucial, allowing us to collect expertise, co-create new technolo-
gies and broaden our customer base. Our open innovation ecosystems are 
growing organically throughout the development chain to interact with 
universities, obtain external funding and support selected ventures and 
start-ups. 
With this in mind, GP established four new Global Innovation Centers in 
fiscal year 2022 in Berlin, Orlando, Abu Dhabi and Shenzhen to nurture 
innovation and business development to drive the energy transformation. 
These are set up to co-create with customers and partner with start-ups, 
industrial partners and universities. Early-stage R&D topics, prototypes and 
pilot applications will be explored, including the use of new skill sets, 
methods, tools, etc.
The Global Innovation Centers focus on:
• Accelerated innovation
• Co-creation with customers and partnerships 
• Closing technology gaps and accessing new business models  
as part of the newly-established partnership framework
GP continues to cooperate with 10 of the top 25 world-ranked universities. 
We work together with scientists at top universities and research institu-
tions worldwide on the advancement of technologies that contribute to 
sustainable energy systems of the future, both in bilateral research and 
publicly funded research projects. We are, for example, working together with the Technical University of  
Berlin on the H2Mare flagship project. The intention is to produce hydrogen 
on the high seas, where conditions are ideal for generating renewable elec-
tricity. The H2Mare initiative under the consortium lead of Siemens Energy 
is a modular project consisting of multiple sub-projects to which more than 
30 partners from industry, institutes and academia are contributing. 
Furthermore, since 2020, our GP Siemens Energy Ventures (SEV) team has 
been focused on building, piloting and investing in ventures with potential 
to shape the sustainable, affordable and reliable future of energy. In the 
start-up ecosystem, SEV takes a "give first" approach toward co-develop-
ment, meaning that SEV gives their expertise and resources to their 
selected start-ups first. This allows SEV to find the right mechanisms and 
develop the right mindset to support our customers, founders and busi-
ness to accelerate our collective journey to net zero.  
One example of SEV support is in the use of drones to improve on-site 
inspections and monitoring of power plants. The project was undertaken 
by our venture clienting team, which aims to solve internal business chal-
lenges using start-up solutions. We became an early customer of the 
start-up, enabling access to solutions that can be tailored to our needs. 
The challenge was to improve operation levels within a power plant, while 
ensuring employee safety. Having scouted start-up solutions for demon-
stration, we chose Percepto as our external partner. Their industry-grade 
drones collect data that undergoes analysis using artificial intelligence and 
deep-learning algorithms. The output, following each mission, consists of 
reports that identify relevant actions to be taken. Early identification and 
resolution of these issues aim to ensure production at the power plant 
continues. Following a successful pilot, we are scaling up the solution at 
eight additional sites across the world.SGRE also collaborates on R&D initiatives for product and technology 
development, partnering with universities, customers, competitors, suppli-
ers, design consultants and certifying bodies. The aim is to identify or 
improve business opportunities and create win-win situations. The focus 
countries are Denmark, Spain, Germany, the UK, France, Norway, the 
Netherlands and India. SGRE tracks active R&D collaborations in a Univer -
sity Relations Dashboard, which shows more than 100 collaborations that 
started or were ongoing in 2022. 
The start-up ecosystem is also a source of new technologies and trends for 
SGRE. SGRE accesses and exploits start-up innovations globally and sys-
tematically by defining its technology needs. By working with start-ups, 
SGRE gains access to R&D pipeline input from technologies developed by 
entrepreneurs. Both start-ups and SGRE can learn from each other and cre-
ate knowledge by combining ideas and experience.
The Offshore Wind innovation eXchange (OWiX) is an accelerator scheme 
in the UK that runs competitions to connect solution providers with indus-
try. For the field “digitalized logistics”, a port site logistics challenge was 
launched by SGRE within OWiX that ultimately resulted in an ongoing 
cooperation with UBISENSE that started in 2021. Bilateral agreements with 
start-ups are signed for proof of concept and market access. By utilizing 
the OWiX challenge, SGRE gets fast access to new ideas in the marketplace, 
as companies are invited to submit their solutions. Cooperating with start-
ups also addresses global sustainability goals, such as SDG 12 “Responsible 
consumption and production”, while giving entrepreneurs access to large 
corporations like SGRE.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 27Cybersecurity
Siemens Energy cybersecurity aims to protect our business operations, 
information assets, data and information technology (IT) / operational 
technology (OT) infrastructure. In addition, its goal is to ensure our prod-
ucts, solutions and services meet generally accepted product and solution 
security practices. This includes the global obligation of compliance with 
our cybersecurity rules and regulations. SGRE has set up separate cyberse-
curity governance and a program with similar aims: to protect information 
and corporate IT assets (IT cybersecurity) as well as products, solutions and 
services offered to the renewable energy market (OT cybersecurity). This is 
based on industry standards and best practices aligned with global regula-
tory requirements. For further information please refer to  SGRE Consoli-
dated Non-Financial Statement 2022, A.2.1 Megatrends Accelerating the Energy 
Transition .
Cybersecurity is the responsibility of every employee and thus a collabora-
tive task, where the degree of involvement and responsibility depends on 
individual roles and functions. Our Cybersecurity Function's principal task 
consists of defining and monitoring requirements and demanding status 
reports from the Heads of Divisions, New Energy Business, Excellence Hor -
izontals and Functions for the company-wide implementation of cyberse-
curity. The Cybersecurity Function also provides quarterly cybersecurity 
status and risk reports to the Executive Board. In addition, the third-party 
cybersecurity risk management process (TPRM) is dedicated to ensuring 
that outsourced solutions and services as well as suppliers are assessed for 
cybersecurity risks throughout the vendor life cycle, that control gaps are 
addressed, and that clauses are included in contracts with vendors.The objectives of our cybersecurity activities are to provide adequately 
secured products, solutions and services as well as dedicated cybersecurity 
support to our customers. All of this is based on secure internal IT and OT, 
is intended to protect all relevant assets against cyber threats and is 
planned to manage associated risks. This is supported by the following 
strategic objectives:
• Cybersecurity enables our business to protect adequately against cyber 
threats and helps us to create business opportunities (business enable-
ment)
• Cybersecurity continuously improves resilience through clear and holis-
tic accountability and ownership (operational excellence)
• Cybersecurity develops and adopts leading technologies and leverages 
the Siemens Energy ecosystem (technology & innovation)
In this context, key activities include executing our cybersecurity strategy, 
delivering adequate cybersecurity services for identification, protection, 
detection, defense and response capabilities to threats and incidents, and 
building up cybersecurity intelligence to mitigate risks (see chapter 	Com-
pliance and integrity ). This enables us to lay a strong foundation for our 
cybersecurity vision: “To be the most cybersecure energy technology com-
pany and bring the highest value to our customers!”
A strong management focus with close cross-business collaboration sup-
ports the integration of cybersecurity into our company and innovation 
strategy. The launch of the new Cybersecurity Orbit platform gives Siemens 
Energy the insight to focus on upcoming trends and technologies in cyber -
security, transform them into focus areas to provide strategic guidance 
and launch and orchestrate innovation projects.In addition to the measures already implemented to increase cyber re-  
silience, Siemens Energy has also established mandatory web-based train-
ing and awareness measures to broaden the cybersecurity topic for all 
employees and foster a culture of cybersecurity awareness. The program 
includes a global employee Cybersecurity Awareness Month in October 
with panels, podcasts, workshop sessions, news articles and multimedia 
learning content.
Fiscal year
Cybersecurity training¹ 2022
Share of active Siemens Energy employees that completed web-based 
training in cybersecurity99%
¹  Without SGRE.Our cybersecurity approach
Siemens
EnergyCustomers
Suppliers Business
Infrastructure FinancialsITOTProductsAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 28Putting renewable hydrogen  
on the fast track
Reaching global targets for greenhouse gas reduction will require a massive scaling-up and speeding-up of renewable hydrogen 
production – already in Europe alone, 20 million metric tons will be needed by 2030. So just how will the renewable hydrogen market 
be accelerated? The answer, say Dominique Rouge and Stefano Innocenzi, lies in new partnerships.
Stefano Innocenzi: Dominique, if we look at the 
development of renewable hydrogen, we have to 
some extent the issue that every new industry has, 
which is the chicken and egg question. 
A lot of companies need clear subsidies, quotas and 
frameworks – as well as clear competitive costs for 
renewable power and electrolyzers before making an 
investment, but if you do not start, you will never get 
to the economy of scale so crucial to decarbonizing 
society.
Dominique Rouge:  Absolutely, first we need large 
pro jects and mass, large-volume manufacturing, and 
that is the challenge we are addressing with our part -
nership, where we are joining the best of two worlds. 
Siemens Energy has strength in manufacturing, indus -
trial capabilities and technology. Air Liquide has strong 
experience in electrolyzer operations.
Stefano Innocenzi: And our partnership will help 
because we will get the production volumes for our 
customers and the knowledge of companies that have 
rarely been in such a venture before, right? Normally, you rarely find those capabilities all combined in one 
offering. How do you think bringing them together is 
helping both companies drive sustainability?
Dominique Rouge:  Well, we want to bring up our 
electro  lysis capacity to 3 gigawatts before 2030. So, 
Air Liquide needs both large renewable hydrogen pro-  
jects and mass electrolyzer manufacturing, and we 
need strong partnerships like ours to put those two 
things together.
Fundamentally, the partnership is really articulated 
around two strong pillars: the joint development of a 
new generation of electrolyzers and the large mass 
manufacturing of stacks. These two pillars will let us 
come to the market with power-to-X solutions for our 
customers.
Stefano Innocenzi: For us, Siemens Energy has been 
developing PEM electrolyzers since 1995. Having Air 
Liquide be part of the development around balancing 
stacks and operations is a big plus – in my experience, 
an industrial gas company like Air Liquide can only help 
us be more competitive! Dominique Rouge, Vice President of Sales & Tech -
nology, Engineering & Construction, Air Liquide, 
started as a research engineer and has been 
working with the “small molecule” hydrogen for 
decades. Stefano Innocenzi, Senior Vice President for Sus  tain-
able Energy Systems, Siemens Energy, began his 
career designing hydrogen plants. “I have built, 
operated and done everything around hydro gen.”
The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 29
Dominique Rouge:  And Siemens Energy will be able to 
develop an extensive offering of renewable hydro  gen 
supply for their cus  tomers. 
Stefano Innocenzi:  The two companies have been 
smart in that sense, really taking the opportunity to 
look at the win-win. And I fully agree with how you 
have described the two pillars: make the existing 
product better, develop new and innovative products, 
and then ramp up the manufacturing and increase the 
volumes and capabilities of both companies.
Dominique Rouge:  I would say that is the beauty of this 
overall partnership.
Stefano Innocenzi: If we are smart, we will find many 
more areas in which we can create value with these two 
companies. And we will need more partnerships like this 
because we have these cross-sector interactions. So, 
what are some concrete pro jects allowing us to do this?Dominique Rouge:  One of the first key areas is the 
industrial basins where Air Liquide is already operating, 
but also basins for the steel industry, where we can 
create large electrolyzer projects. 
The 200-megawatt electrolyzer project in Normandy, 
France, one of the largest in the world, was the opening 
of the partnership, and it is just one example. We also 
intend to do this very large mass manufacturing of 
stacks from a first electrolyzer factory in Berlin – there 
could be others in the future – quickly ramping up 
production to 3 gigawatts per year by 2025. 
Stefano Innocenzi:  What impact will all this have on 
industry?
Dominique Rouge:  Hydrogen is really a key element in 
decarbonizing feedstock for the chemical and refining 
industry. There are already new decarbonization applica -
tions that will be based on hydrogen. In the steel in  dus- 
“We are joining the best 
 of two worlds.”  
Dominique Rouge
“If you do not start, you will never 
get to the economy of scale.” 
Stefano Innocenzi try, the switch from blast furnace to DRI (direct-reduced 
iron) has to be supplied with low-carbon hydro  gen. And 
we should not forget mobility. We talk a lot about in  - 
dustry, but mobility is also driving the need for renew -
able hydrogen.
Stefano Innocenzi:  And industry and mobility are  
the two areas identified by the European Union. If you 
look at Fit for 55 (the EU’s plan to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions by at least 55%), these are exactly the 
two areas being targeted: not only heavy-duty 
mobility, but aviation and shipping also require new, 
cleaner fuels with e-fuels that can be produced from 
renewable hydrogen.You know, I think Europe is the place where the majority 
of the activity is happening at the moment because of 
the strong government support and the willingness of 
companies and society to make this change. And now 
with the Ukrainian crisis, I think there is even more polit -
ical need for energy independence and obviously, 
renewable hydrogen and renewables can support this 
energy. 
Dominique Rouge:  Well, we need real industrial solu -
tions, not only dreamers, I would say – real industrial 
solutions to make it happen with a long-term plan 
because we also have the responsibility to bring costs 
down. The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 30• We aspire to reach net zero across the entire value chain 
• We have defined interim targets in all scopes
• We have established critical levers to reach these targets  
The impacts of climate change, coupled with a rising global demand for 
energy, pose an enormous challenge for our planet. As this demand 
increases, so too could levels of damaging GHG. With the impact of the 
energy sector far greater than that of every other sector combined, our 
task as an energy company is clear: to meet the growing need for energy 
while actively shaping the path to decarbonization. This poses risks and 
opportunities for our company, which we manage in our Enterprise Risk 
Management (see chapter 	Strategic focus ).
We are following an ambitious strategy to drive the decarbonization of 
global energy systems. With our innovative solutions, products and ser -
vices, we are supporting our customers in their transition to a more sus-
tainable world. Making this transition is an immense task, and we know 
we cannot do it alone. It will require all stakeholders from politics, busi-
ness and society to work together more closely to achieve this vision.On our journey to energize society, we are decarbonizing our business 
activities along our entire value chain. In doing so, we are contributing to 
the UN SDGs, in particular SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy” and SDG 13 
“Climate Action”.
Decarbonization is an essential part of our strategy
We are committed to decarbonization along our value chain – from our 
supply chain to our own operations to the use phase of our products. On 
May 24, 2022, Siemens Energy hosted its Capital Market Day in Berlin, 
where we announced our aspiration to reach net zero across the entire 
value chain, in line with a 1.5°C pathway. Central to this is our target to 
become climate neutral in our own operations by 2030. 
In 2021, the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) validated the absolute 
GHG reduction targets for GP, not only for our own operations (Scope 1 and 
2), but also for the use phase of our sold products (a category of Scope 3). 
This confirms that our targets are in line with the Paris Agreement.The SBTi also verified that SGRE’s emissions reduction targets (Scope 1 and 
2) are aligned to meet the 1.5°C Paris Agreement goal. SGRE achieved cli-
mate neutrality in its own operations in 2019, including offsetting unavoid-
able emissions. It plans to achieve its Scope 1 and 2 neutrality without off-
sets in 2030 by:
• Applying energy reduction, substitution and efficiency measures
• Drawing electricity supply from renewable sources
• Switching to green mobility to reduce fleet emissions
• Increasing awareness campaigns and collecting employee ideas 
SGRE now aims to go beyond carbon neutrality to become a carbon sink 
(carbon positive) in its own operations by 2040, for example by cultivating 
CO2-absorbing microalgae. Additionally, SGRE seeks a zero-emission supply 
chain by 2040. For further information please refer to  SGRE Consolidated 
Non-Financial Statement 2022, C.2 Climate Change .
In meeting the targets of the Paris Agreement, we are also helping to meet 
the climate and energy targets of the European Union (EU). As part of its 
European Green Deal, the EU has implemented a classification system – 
the EU Taxonomy – that aims to direct investments toward sustainable 
projects and activities. The Taxonomy lays down criteria for the definition 
of environmentally sustainable economic activities, with the purpose of 
providing companies, investors and policymakers with consistent and  
comparable criteria for assessing which economic activities can be consid-
ered sustainable. For fiscal year 2022, and in accordance with a simplified Decarbonization 
The demand for secure energy is rising, and climate change calls for lower 
emissions. Our biggest lever for decarbonization is through our portfolio of 
products that help our customers reduce their emissions.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 31approach allowed by the EU for first-time application, Siemens Energy will 
only report the shares of Taxonomy-eligible economic activities in reve-
nues, capital expenditure (CapEx), and operating expenditure (OpEx) in 
relation to the currently developed environmental targets "Climate change 
mitigation" and "Climate change adaptation". The future reporting obliga-
tion will additionally cover Taxonomy-eligible natural gas and nuclear 
power activities, Taxonomy-aligned shares of revenues, CapEx and OpEx, 
as well as the other four environmental goals. For further information 
please refer to  Siemens Energy Annual Report 2022, EU-Taxonomy .
Our GP climate goals are also part of our Long-Term Incentive plan and 
hence firmly anchored in top management compensation (see chapter 
	Strategic focus  and  Siemens Energy Annual Report 2022, Compensation 
Report ).
The greatest potential to reduce GHG emissions is in our products, solu-
tions and services. To underscore our strategic focus of providing innova-
tive technology for our customers’ energy transition, we have defined five 
fields of action to decarbonize our portfolio. For more information see 
chapter 	Customers and innovation .With a focus on sustainability, we will continue to transform our portfolio 
of products, solutions and services, and we will focus on building the com-
pany based on three strategic pillars (see chapter 	Strategic focus ):
• Low- or zero-emission power generation
• Transport and storage of electricity
• Reducing GHG footprint and energy consumption in industrial processes
As a provider of clean and affordable energy, SGRE’s strategy focuses on 
opportunities to develop new onshore and offshore wind turbines with 
bigger rotors able to deliver higher annual energy levels at a lower cost. 
For further information please refer to 	SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement 2022, C2.4 Strategy: Strategy to Tackle Climate Change .
Our GHG emissions reduction target for Scope 3¹ emissions for the  
GP reporting segment:Scope 3 emissions reduction target 
Reduce Scope 3  
emissions  
by at least 28%  
 by 2030²
1 Includes category “use of sold products” only.
² From base year 2019.in line with the well below 
2°C trajectory
validated by the SBTi
1 Baseline fiscal year 2019, 1.5 billion metric tons CO2e.EU Taxonomy Fiscal year
(%) 20221
Share of turnover from EU Taxonomy-eligible activities 57
Share of capital expenditures from EU Taxonomy-eligible activities 79
Share of operational expenditures from EU Taxonomy-eligible activities 40
¹  Excluding natural gas and nuclear power activities (Complementary Climate Delegated Act)Decarbonization at our customers
To reflect the importance of our products and solutions for decarbonizing 
energy systems worldwide, we have integrated the use of our sold prod-
ucts into our carbon footprint calculation as part of the SBTi commitment 
to create transparency for our stakeholders. Sold products account for over 
99% of our overall GHG emissions. 
On our path to a net zero value chain, we at GP have set ourselves an 
interim target to reduce GHG emissions by 28% until 2030 from a 2019¹ 
base. The SBTi confirms that our target for the use of our sold products is 
in line with the Paris Agreement goal to limit global warming to well below 
2°C. The bulk of emissions will be reduced through measures such as port-
folio adjustments, fuel shifts and emission removal technologies (see chart 
below). We expect most of our emissions reductions from sold products 
will happen after 2030, as we expect markets and technologies still need 
to mature and scale. Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 32Our Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products have been calculated 
based on the GHG protocol standards. The main drivers for GHG emissions 
are the direct combustion of fuels in our products as well as the electricity 
consumption and power losses of our products. These emissions include2:
• Direct emissions: Essentially, GHG emissions are generated through 
combustion of fossil fuels (e.g., natural gas in a gas turbine). The 
amount of CO2 equivalent (CO2e) emissions varies depending on the 
type of fuel (e.g., natural gas, oil) and the energy efficiency of the prod-
uct (gas turbine, steam turbine, engine, etc.). 
• Indirect emissions: These are GHG emissions from large electrical con-
sumers (e.g., motors, drives, pumps) or from power losses (e.g., trans-
formers) from the used products. To a minor extent, the transmission 
portfolio emits CO2e via SF6 gas leakages at customers’ sites.The calculation methodology for Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold 
products comprises the emissions from our products resulting from new 
business in fiscal year 2022 over their expected use-phase and the expected 
operating hours per year. With order intake, the total respective emissions 
Heat pump for Berlin
From data centers to manufacturing, many industrial processes 
generate waste heat that can be consolidated and used for 
heating via large-scale heat pumps. Siemens Energy has deliv -
ered a new high-temperature heat pump at Potsdamer Platz 
Cooling Center in Berlin that uses a seemingly paradoxical con -
cept: generating heat from cold. For 25 years, the cooling cen-
ter at Potsdamer Platz has been supplying surrounding build-
ings with locally generated cooling from cold water. In cooling 
the buildings and technical equipment, the water absorbs heat 
which, until now, has been returned to cooling centers and the 
waste heat released to the environment via cooling towers. 
Now, however, the new high-temperature heat pump process 
uses this waste as a source and, using renewable electricity and 
an environmentally friendly refrigerant for the heat pump, 
raises the residual heat up to 120°C, which then flows into the 
city heating network.Generating heat from cold for city buildings
Megatons CO2eScope 3¹ emissions reduction measures²
1 Includes category “use of sold products” only.
² As presented at Capital Market Day in May 2022.
³ Fiscal year 2021 GP customer emissions calculated.
⁴ Combined Heat and Power.Portfolio examples2021 Increasing 
renewables & 
electrification
Transmission, 
storage, e-drivesFuel shift 
& GHG-free 
products
Green fuels,  
blue portfolioEmission 
removal 
technologies 
Carbon 
capture2021 – 2030 
beyond 2030
1,369³
Portfolio adjust-
ments & emissions 
from growth 
Coal exit,  
business growthEnergy  
efficiency & 
digitalization 
CHP⁴, methane 
leak detectionScope 3 downstream emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2022 2021
Total11,323,012 1,369,163
Intensity (t CO2e/ € of order intake) 0.035 0.041
¹  Includes category “use of sold products” only (well-to-tank emissions are included, biogenic emissions have 
been excluded). SGRE emissions equal zero.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 33are determined and reported. GHG emissions that occur during other 
phases of a product’s life cycle, such as in the supply chain, production or 
end-of-life disposal, are not accounted for or reported on in Scope 3 down-
stream (use of sold products). 
The Service business is not included in our Scope 3 emissions from the use 
of sold products. We do not disclose emissions reductions resulting from 
efficiency increases through service upgrades (of power plants, for exam-
ple). While not part of our Scope 3 footprint calculations, we are aware 
that reducing the footprint from our installed base is important to reduc-
ing global CO2 emissions.
Siemens Energy’s total Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products 
during the reporting period was 1.32 billion metric tons CO2e. Compared to 
fiscal year 2021, this is a decrease of about 3% in total emissions and 17% in 
intensity. The main reason for this decline is the coal exit announced in 
November 2020, according to which Siemens Energy will no longer partici-
pate in new tenders for pure coal-fired power plants. Having received an 
order for a large coal-fired power plant in Indonesia in fiscal year 2021 (this 
project-related commitment to the customer was made before our deci-
sion to phase out coal), there was no corresponding order intake in fiscal 
year 2022. However, the positive effect of the coal exit is mostly offset by a 
strong order intake for large and industrial gas turbines. 
Decarbonization of our operating processes 
Becoming climate neutral in our own operations is an integral part of the 
sustainability journey for Siemens Energy.
With the Climate Neutral Program, the GP reporting segment aims to be 
climate neutral in its own operations by 2030 and to compensate for 
remaining emissions from then on. This includes the reduction of absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by at least 46% by 2025 from the base year 
2019. This is an even greater ambition than our initial target year, which 
was originally 2030, as validated by the SBTi. In the reporting period, we 
achieved a reduction of 50% compared to fiscal year 2019.The strongest levers to achieve climate neutrality by 2030 are:
1. Reducing energy consumption
We have energy efficiency projects in place at various locations for build-
ings and process optimization. These include the installation of LED light-
ing with dimmers and motion sensors, the installation of smart meters to 
increase transparency and building automation systems (e.g., heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning). The production scope includes, for example, 
an improved production process of transformers, achieved by installing 
heat recovery systems and vapor phase ovens that reduce drying time.
2. Using renewable electricity
100% of Siemens Energy’s global electricity consumption should be met by 
power from renewable sources by 2023. In fiscal year 2022, we achieved 
90%. Climate Neutral Program
Our Climate Neutral Program was launched to help Siemens Energy 
reach its target to reduce emissions from our own operations (Scope 1 
and 2) to carbon neutral by 2030. 
One of the biggest levers to achieve this is increasing annual sourcing of 
renewable electricity to 100% by 2023¹. In fiscal year 2021, around 76% 
of our electricity needs were covered by green electricity. For fiscal year 
2022, this increased to around 90%, greater than our target of 84%.
Currently, photovoltaic (PV) systems are already in operation at 
Siemens Energy facilities in Germany, Croatia and Sweden, and we are 
installing more in Egypt, China and India. Further PVs are planned in 
more countries.
While increasing green electricity is essential for decarbonizing our 
own operations, it is only a first step in our journey to become climate 
neutral. We are also looking at energy efficiency, electrification and 
alternative sources of heat to further reduce our carbon footprint. Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center, Finspang, Sweden
Our GHG emissions reduction target for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the GP reporting 
segment:Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction target  
in line with 1.5° trajectory
-46%
2019 2025 2030validated by the 
SBTi for 2030
Climate 
neutral by 
compensation
¹ SBTi approved.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 343. Reducing SF6 emissions
SF6 emissions in our operations occur in products in our Transmission Divi-
sion. With the expansion of our Blue Portfolio, together with the stringent 
measures in our facilities, we have set ourselves the target to reduce our 
SF6-related emissions by 60% by 2030 compared to a 2019 baseline. Due to 
our continuous work in all our operations to improve technical standards, 
increase data transparency and raise awareness of the greenhouse effect, 
we have surpassed our ambitious reduction target. In fiscal year 2022, we 
achieved a reduction of 52% compared to the base year and 14% compared 
to fiscal year 2021.
Our SF6/F-gas-free Blue Portfolio is based on technical air insulation and 
vacuum switching technology. With its zero global warming potential, the 
portfolio enables net zero power grids.
4. New mobility concepts
In fiscal year 2022, unfortunately, fleet emissions rose due to increased 
travel activity after the COVID-19 break. We are aiming for 100% CO2-neu-
tral benefit cars by 2030 by implementing our car policy globally. In Ger -
many, for instance, employees receive better company-financed leasing 
conditions when choosing a battery electric vehicle or plug-in hybrid elec-
tric vehicle instead of a conventional fuel or diesel car.SGRE has also implemented local country-specific transportation policies 
that ensure low-carbon mobility is the preferred option for benefit cars 
and promote the transition of service vehicles to low-carbon alternatives. 
For further information please refer to  SGRE  Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement 2022, C2.4 Strategy: Strategy to Tackle Climate Change .
Where SGRE cannot reduce or transition its energy in its own operations, it 
will compensate for the non-avoided emissions by investing in environ-
mental projects that aim to reduce future emissions to balance its GHG 
footprint. For further information please refer to  SGRE Consolidated 
Non-Financial Statement 2022, C2. Climate Change .
Internal CO2 pricing
CO2 pricing is a further steering mechanism for achieving climate neutral-
ity. We believe binding CO2 budgets for all sectors and regions as well as 
clear CO2 price signals can guide us toward the 1.5°C target. These price 
signals encourage the deployment of the best technologies and business 
models available. Internally, we have implemented a guideline to consider 
GHG emissions in our CapEx decisions and ensure that new investments 
are supporting our Climate Neutral Program. To support low carbon invest-
ment in our own operations, we introduced a shadow price of €100 per 
metric ton of CO2.
In Brazil, Siemens Energy has implemented an internal carbon price. Each 
Business Unit pays a specified carbon fee into an investment fund, which is 
then used to invest in low-carbon projects. This fund was rolled out to all 
Latin American regions by the end of fiscal year 2022. In the first phase, the 
internal carbon price was collected from the Business Units (based on their 
previous emissions) and reverted to the fund. A project campaign was then 
launched to collect project ideas linked to energy efficiency and the sus-
tainability of operations. The selected projects pitch their ideas to the Neu-
tral CO2 Steering Committee to grant the investment to implement them.First zero carbon emission substation of 
the world’s biggest power grid company
The Siemens Energy High Voltage Switchgear team in 
Shanghai has successfully put China's first 145kV Blue 
GIS into operation in Wuxi, China. The project was car -
ried out in cooperation with the State Grid Corporation 
of China (SGCC), the world's largest power grid company, 
which serves more than 1.1 billion people and supplies 
88% of China's electricity. Using SF6-free vacuum arc 
extinguishing and clean air insulation technology, the 
zero-carbon substation is an important solution for 
SGCC in its mission to achieve carbon neutrality. Premiere for China: Blue GIS zero-carbon switchgear
Fiscal year
Siemens Energy fleet 2022 2021
Number of vehicles ~5,300 ~5,400
Fleet consume (1,000 GJ) 435 392Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 35Energy consumption and GHG emissions
We calculate the energy consumption of our offices and manufacturing 
facilities by adding the primary and secondary consumption of fuels and 
electricity. We have implemented a new global EHS reporting tool and 
increased our reporting scope to include more company locations in the 
direct reporting, which has led to better data transparency.
In fiscal year 2022, we managed to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
around 21% or 58,000 metric tons, resulting in a Scope 1 and 2 intensity of 
7.42x10-6 t CO2e/€ of revenue in 2022 compared to 9.57x10-6 t CO2e/€ of 
revenue in 2021. The main levers were an increase in green electricity, 
reduced overall energy consumption as well as a continued reduction of 
SF6 emissions. More than 50% of our emissions occur in Germany, China 
and the U.S.4.Siemens Energy’s total energy consumption during the reporting period 
was 5.8 million gigajoules (GJ), resulting in an intensity of 2.00x10-4 GJ/€ 
of revenue. Compared to fiscal year 2021, this is a decrease of 8% in abso-
lute energy consumption, which is mainly attributable to the implementa-
tion of energy efficiency projects. 
In the context of our Climate Neutral Program and our target to have 100% 
of our global electricity consumption from renewable sources by 2023, we 
managed to reduce emissions through electricity from renewable sources 
by about 196,000 metric tons CO2e (fiscal year 2021: 205,000).
Over the reporting period, we collected the following data regarding the 
level of Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to business activities. Our new 
reporting tool enables us to increase the collection of actuals and reduce 
extrapolations.
Scope 1 (direct) emissions
Direct GHG emissions arise from sources in the company’s ownership or 
under its control.
Scope 2 (indirect) emissions
Indirect GHG emissions refer to the consumption of purchased electrical 
energy and district heating.
4  Without fleet emissions.Energy consumption Fiscal year
(1,000 GJ) 2022 2021
Primary energy 2,103 2,362
thereof natural gas & liquid petroleum gas 1,825 2,037
thereof fuel oil, coal, gasoline, diesel 211 280
thereof biogas 63 37
thereof other 5 5
Secondary energy 3,694 3,967
thereof electricity 3,117 3,279
  thereof electricity from renewable sources 2,817 2,496
thereof district heating 577 688
Total 5,797 6,329
Intensity (GJ/€ of revenue) 2.00x10-42.22x10-4Renewable energy Fiscal year
(%) 2022 2021
Share of renewable electricity (of total electricity) 90 76
Share of renewable energy (of total energy) 50 40Scope 1 and 2 emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2022 2021
Scope 1 188 206
thereof natural gas & liquid gas 102 111
thereof fuel oil, gasoline, diesel 15 21
thereof SF6 35 41
thereof fleet emissions 32 29
thereof other emissions 3 4
Scope 2 27 67
thereof electricity 9 34
thereof district heat 18 32
Total 215 273
Intensity (t CO2e/€ of revenue) 7.42x10-69.57x10-6Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 36Atmospheric pollutant emissions
Other atmospheric pollutant emissions also have negative impacts on the 
environment. These include volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 
ozone-depleting substances (ODS). VOCs contribute to the formation of 
ozone close to the earth’s surface. Solvents, paints and adhesives are exam-
ples of substances and materials that contain VOCs. ODS are monitored to 
comply with the Montreal Protocol, the international convention on the pro-
tection of the ozone layer, as well as with country-specific regulations.
In calculating nitrogen oxides (NOX), we have assumed typical combustion 
conditions in relevant thermal processes.
Decarbonization of our supply chain
Our suppliers are an important part of the value chain, and we encourage 
them to take climate protection measures. Emissions reduction is an inte-
gral part of our suppliers’ supply chain management (see chapter 	Sus-
tainable supply chain management ), and we continue to urge them to 
increase their efforts.
We run our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers Program in cooperation with an 
external service provider, which offers an economic model based on an 
input/output analysis that identifies the CO2 footprint of all suppliers. With SGRE has set a target to engage 30% of its suppliers by spend, covering 
purchased goods and services as well as transport and distribution, to have 
science-based targets by 2025. Based on this short-term target SGRE aims 
to reach at least 50% by 2040. To achieve this, SGRE launched a new initia-
tive to include sustainability commitments in its supplier contracts. Its 
Decarbonization Annex has become a part of standard SGRE contracts and 
aims to foster transparency and target-setting. 
For further information please refer to  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement 2022, C1.10 Environmental Requirements for Suppliers .the procurement volume and the material-country combination, the model 
calculates the CO2 footprint in the supply chain based on official statistics 
and studies like OECD, World Bank, IPCC, U.S. – BEA and the U.S. and Euro-
pean environmental agencies.
For GP, we have set ourselves an ambitious target of reducing our relative 
Scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and services as well as 
transportation and distribution by 30% per procurement volume (€ spent) 
until 2030 based on fiscal year 2018.
The calculated upstream footprint for fiscal year 2022 is 5,081 kilotons 
CO2e, resulting in an intensity of 0.424, which is 15% higher in total emis-
sions but 4% lower in intensity compared to 2021.
To further increase transparency regarding supplier engagement for decar -
bonization in 2022, we encouraged more than 2,000 suppliers that make 
up more than 75% of the carbon footprint in our supply chain to participate 
in our decarbonization due diligence assessment and report on their mea-
sures. These will be considered in future target progress tracking.Atmospheric pollutant emissions Fiscal year
(metric tons) 2022 2021
VOCs 275 440
ODS (in R11 equivalent) 0.009 0.027
NOX 74 81Scope 3 upstream emissions¹ Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2022 2021²
Total 5,081 4,433
thereof category “purchased goods and services” 4,833 4,223
thereof category “transportation and distribution” 248 210
Intensity (kg CO2e/€ of purchasing volume) 0.424³ 0.440
¹  Without SGRE. 
²  Due to the further development and optimization of the CO2 calculation tool, the CO2 emissions for fiscal year 
2021 and fiscal year 2018 (baseline) were recalculated. 
³  Reduction compared to the base year 2018 (baseline calculation) -10.85%.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 37Responsible operations
Occupational health and safety 40
Conservation of resources  45
Product stewardship  49
Sustainable supply chain management 53
Expert dialogue: Just energy transition 583
Human rights 60
Compliance and integrity 62 
Working at Siemens Energy 66
Societal engagement  74The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 38Summary page
² Excluding construction and other waste. ¹ Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.Occupational health and safety 
Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, 
partners, contractors and suppliers is our utmost priority.
2.17 
Total Recordable Injury  
Rate (TRIR) of employees¹Product stewardship
Our approach to product stewardship includes all environmental aspects, 
with a strong focus on climate change adaptation and resource efficiency.
72% 
coverage of  
portfolio by life cycle 
assessments   
(LCA)Conservation of resources
We aim to minimize our impact on the environment. Our environmental 
management systems are founded on the principles and elements of the 
international ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 standards or energy audits.
3.45  million m3 
water consumption81% 
share of recycling²Zero Harm Framework
We promote a strong Zero Harm culture that aims to prevent injuries 
and adverse effects on people and the environment.
4 
Principles6 
Behaviors8 
EssentialsThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 39Societal engagement
Our global engagement addresses needs in 
the countries in which we operate.
€ 3.62  million 
total donationsSummary page
¹ At reporting segment GP.
Compliance & integrity
Our company-wide zero-tolerance approach aims to 
ensure a strong culture of business ethics and compliance.
Our Business Conduct 
Guidelines are binding 
for all executives and 
employees worldwide94%  
of employees 
trained on our 
Business Conduct 
GuidelinesWorking at Siemens Energy
Our People Agenda promotes a thriving environment, game-changing leaders 
and a vibrant workforce.
Share of females
Training hours
10.3 
Total average training hours per employeein top leadership 
positions¹  
22%Our target top leadership 
positions by 2025 
25%by 2030 
30%Sustainable supply chain management
We apply stringent environmental and social standards to contribute to a 
sustainable supply chain.
€ 21.5  billion 
procurement volume106%  
increase in  
supplier self- 
assessments6% 
increase in external 
sustainability  
audits
Human rights
We are committed to ensuring respect for human rights 
along the value chain within our sphere of influence.
We conduct human rights due 
diligence for our customer projectsThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 40Occupational health and safety
• Prevention is our key strategy for employee health and safety
• Strong Zero Harm culture fosters responsible health and safety 
practices across the organization
• Environment, health and safety management system certified to  
ISO 45001 
Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, part-
ners, contractors and suppliers is one of our key objectives. Having a sound 
occupational health and safety (OHS) approach is also vital to achieve the 
two SDGs to which we are committed in this regard: SDG 3 “Good Health 
and Well-Being” and SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth”.
Our standards for environment, health and safety (EHS) are anchored in all 
our business practices and are aligned with our EHS Principles and Core 
Responsibilities as well as our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG). At 
Siemens Energy we use these as a foundation for the development of our 
EHS management approach and processes. In the reporting year, we con-
tinued our monthly safety reviews with members of the Executive Board. 
These were further enhanced by a process improvement to provide Lessons 
Learned (LL) for all recordable incidents and High Potential Near Misses. The 
LL are stored in a central repository, which is accessible for all employees.To support the fundamental requirements for good OHS, our EHS Policy 
aligns with our company principles and behaviors demonstrating:
• Strong leadership, ownership and commitment
• Promotion of good health and safety conduct
• Commitment to continuous improvement
• Hazard identification, risk assessment and prevention 
• Compliance with principles, standards and behaviors
Alongside the EHS Policy, the ISO 45001 standard provides guidance so 
that international and local regulations, laws, standards and practices are 
observed and complied with wherever we operate. This standard provides 
a basis for effective management, identification of potential risks and 
internal audit and review.
Siemens Energy aims to have a certifiable management system covering 
all employees worldwide. Each operational business in Siemens Energy 
operates under a relevant and maintained Integrated Management System 
(ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 45001).During fiscal year 2022, GP transitioned from having six umbrella certifi-
cates covering ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 to having one overarch-
ing GP multi-site certificate that covers all three standards. In the next 
step, countries and stand-alone certificates will be integrated into the GP 
multi-site certificate.
The Business Units perform internal audits within their organization to pre-
pare and maintain certifications. 
SGRE has all locations covered by one certifiable management system. In 
fiscal year 2022, GP released Quality Fundamentals as a common founda-
tion upon which we can work together to increase our quality awareness, 
facilitate a strong collaboration in avoiding nonconformance costs and 
learn from each other. 
Contractors and temporary workers are expected to work to the same stan-
dards as those of Siemens Energy employees. Contractor incidents are 
shared with business procurement to discuss further improvements. We 
also discuss these with the contractors themselves and hold meetings with 
suppliers for high impact incidents. All relevant data is shared with the 
Executive Board. GP continues with the proven practice “Eye on Safety 
Reviews”, which are held monthly with a member of the Siemens Energy 
Executive Board and are accessible to all employees on the Siemens Energy 
Environmental, Health, Safety, Quality and Security (EQS) Share Point. For 
further improvement in the quality of our contractor pre-qualification and 
approval process, we have reviewed and standardized our contractor 
pre-qualification questionnaire.Safe workplaces and healthy employees are our utmost priority. 
We have clear measures in place to identify risks, avoid accidents, 
and promote employee well-being.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 41Health and safety culture provides the foundation 
Siemens Energy is committed to not only protecting the environment but 
also managing the health, safety and well-being of our employees, part-
ners and other stakeholders who may be affected by our business and 
operational activities. That is why our priority is a strong Zero Harm Frame-
work, which is driven by our essentials, behaviors and principles (see 
graphic on Zero Harm).
The GP Zero Harm Framework intends to promote Zero Harm culture,  
placing responsibility on each local manager to develop and implement 
the principles, discuss elements that will be included in their program with 
their teams, and then reinforce them as part of daily work. 
With our global EHS reporting tool, we can continuously monitor any con-
cerns raised by employees, with each case treated locally according to our 
reporting process. GP is currently implementing a new global software 
solution covering Environmental, Health, Safety, Security and Product 
Safety incidents. The software is flexible, able to grow with our company 
requirements, and will be fully operational in fiscal year 2023. SGRE is 
implementing the same software for health, safety and environment (HSE) 
topics.
SGRE also continues to instill a strong Zero Harm culture across the global 
business. Its initiatives include “Safety is My Choice” and the 10 Life-Saving 
Rules. 
In fiscal year 2022, SGRE created a strategic plan with the aim of enhanc-
ing their Zero Harm  culture focused on prevention and based on scientific 
facts to achieve Zero Harm in HSE and to continuously improve the well-  
being of employees. The strategic plan was built around three main pillars: 
Engage, Empower and Ensure. Particular elements of the plan deemed 
strategic priorities for 2022 included:• Operational risk control, including the deployment of a global Setting to 
Work procedure that outlines the process by which work activities 
should be approached safely
• Contractor management, including performance monitoring and the 
launch of new requirements
• HSE competence using a competency assessment tool for HSE profes-
sionals that allows employees and managers to perform competency 
self-assessments and then develop appropriate action plans
• Data-driven actions with a sharp focus on eliminating incidents
• A simple and aligned safety system, including the release of an updated 
HSE Principles procedure
For further information please refer to  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement 2022 B2. Health & Safety .GP has implemented an EHS training tool that provides employees with the 
opportunity to develop both individual and team-based EHS skills and 
knowledge, meet regulatory requirements associated with their job roles, 
and integrate the Zero Harm Framework. As an improvement to the corpo-
rate training tool, we have reviewed the EHS courses and aligned them 
with the Zero Harm Framework to provide a core set of training courses 
that are directly aligned with each Zero Harm element.
SGRE has a standardized training platform with the required EHS training 
courses made available to employees and contractors.Principles
Foundation for strong and well- 
connected governance and assurance 
at all levels in our organization
Behaviors
To be demonstrated by everyone  
in our company, no matter the type  
of work
Essentials
Must be complied with by everyone 
performing this type of high-risk 
activityZero Harm at Siemens Energy
Risk assessmentZero Harm 
is achievable
Health
Confined space Working at height Vehicle safetyMachine guarding 
and interlockingSTOP!We take care
of each other
DrivingWe do not
compromise
Environment
Cranes and liftingHazardous energy 
controlElectrical safetyExplosive gases 
and vaporsIncident
managementWe develop locally
and share globallyAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 42Health and safety performance under review
GP completed corporate assurance occupational safety (OS) audits related 
to a location’s risk factors. The audits were conducted on-site and across 
organizational levels to increase the effectiveness of our safety risk man-
agement at manufacturing, service and project sites. SGRE also completed 
OS audits (to ISO 45001 standard) during fiscal year 2022. OS audits and 
their results will continue to be quantified, providing details for the effec-
tive implementation of optimization measures, Lessons Learned and con-
tinuous improvement recommendations.
Preventing accidents
Health and safety performance at Siemens Energy is managed via internal 
processes that define the requirements for the classification, recording 
and investigation of accidents.
GP processes include monthly reviews with each Division on how to meet 
its individual action plan as well as implementing behaviors defined in the 
Zero Harm building blocks. For example, in fiscal year 2021, one of our 
highest risks was cranes and lifting. We therefore created a team to focus 
on this topic, resulting in an update to the Zero Harm Essentials for cranes 
and lifting and the development of a new instruction document in fiscal 
year 2022.
In fiscal year 2022, SGRE implemented monitoring for all actions arising 
from high-risk incidents and set a benchmark figure of 80% of these 
actions to be closed by the scheduled due date. This performance indicator 
is discussed alongside the Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) at manage-
ment meetings to prompt action where necessary and ensure these actions 
are closed by the specified due date.
Our key focus is on the TRIR and serious incidents, the detailed information 
of which we share with the Executive Board on a monthly basis. We also 
report the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) to the Board monthly as 
a Siemens Energy figure for GP and SGRE.Fiscal year
TRIR12022 2021
TRIR of employees22.17 2.47
TRIR of contractors32.65 2.79
TRIR of employees & contractors 2.27 2.54
1  Total Recordable Injury Rate: number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.  
Recordable injuries are accidents that result in lost time, restricted work or medical treatment.
2  Incl. temporary workers; excl. contractors.
3  Contractors are service providers carrying out work activities in a work environment under the control of the 
company. SGRE captures all contractors; GP captures contractors in projects with a volume >€5 million and 
classified as complex during the bid phase.Fiscal year
LTIFR12022 2021
LTIFR of employees21.15 1.15
LTIFR of contractors31.52 1.30
LTIFR of employees & contractors 1.22 1.18
1  Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: number of lost time injuries (LTI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.  
LTIs are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work.
2  Incl. temporary workers; excl. contractors.
3  Contractors are service providers carrying out work activities in a work environment under the control of the 
company. SGRE captures all contractors; GP captures contractors in projects with a volume >€5 million and 
classified as complex during the bid phase.
Fiscal year
High-consequence injury rate12022 2021
High-consequence injury rate of employees & contractors20.040 0.044
1  Work-related serious personal life-threatening or life-altering injuries as well as injuries with more than 180 days 
of lost/restricted work. Excluding fatalities.
2  Number of high-consequence work-related injuries x 1,000,000/work hours performed.  
Incl. temporary workers and contractors.Fiscal year
Fatalities12022 2021
Employees 1 0
Contractors 2 5
Total 3 5
1  Excluding cases beyond Siemens Energy’s influence (e.g., force majeure, third-party violence) or outside of 
Siemens Energy's scope of responsibility.
Robotic safety inspections
Siemens Energy has partnered with the U.S. firm Gecko Robotics to launch a new 
robot-enabled ultrasonic solution that inspects plant machinery and can detect early 
indicators of corrosion and defects faster and safer than a manual inspection. Where 
manual inspections require 10 to 12 inspectors and support personnel, this solution 
enables Siemens Energy to complete the same task with a smaller team. The robotic 
inspections are also 5 to 10 times faster than a manual inspection, reducing the time 
personnel are on-site and exposed to the hazards of industrial operations.
Ultrasonic robots: fast and safe corrosion detection
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 43The overall TRIR of employees without contractors was 2.17 and the LTIFR 
of employees was 1.15 at the end of the fiscal year.
The reduction of the TRIR was achieved by the implementation of initia-
tives driven by the Service organization, which was the main contributor 
to the TRIR in fiscal year 2021. At GP, for example, each service region for -
mulated a hub-specific EHS strategy based on pain-points of that region. 
GP also rolled out a Zero Harm engagement app as a platform for employ -
ees to record their EHS engagement. SGRE held weekly reviews with Busi-
ness Units for greater transparency and accountability and focused on 
improvement projects to drive down the TRIR.
Our key objective is to prevent incidents, which also covers high-  
consequence incidents while performing work activities. The Zero Harm 
Framework and the Life Saving Rules support the efforts to reduce the 
severity of injuries. In fiscal year 2022, we had 10 high-consequence 
work-related injuries (fiscal year 2021: 11).
Regrettably, we also had three work-related fatal accidents (fiscal year 
2021: five). Two of the fatal accidents were related to electrical shock, one 
was related to contact with a crane. Each serious event or fatal accident 
causes grief for families, friends and colleagues. As a company, we thor -
oughly investigate and assess the respective circumstances and conse-
quently derive measures to prevent such accidents from happening again.We are vigilant that employees are not exposed to occupational illness or 
work-related diseases while performing work activities. The GP Zero Harm 
building block “Safe from Workplace Exposure” is therefore an essential 
part of our Zero Harm Framework. This building block provides a set of 
rules to eliminate exposure hazards in the work environment. SGRE utilizes 
the risk assessment to identify controls to avoid exposure to hazards that 
would lead to an occupational illness.
Risk assessment is a key Zero Harm behavior. Each staff member is required 
to identify hazards and carry out risk assessments for all work activities 
and workplaces to identify and implement controls. Employees are not to 
start a work activity without an approved risk assessment and an under -
standing of the controls.
Our reporting data for occupational illness was extended from Germany to 
a global scope in fiscal year 2022.
Zero Harm engagement app
The new EQS Zero Harm engagement app enables 
Siemens Energy employees to access our latest Zero 
Harm program wherever they are and share their learn-
ing with others. On average, 20 to 25 employees a day 
from all global hubs use the app to either record their 
engagements or consult Zero Harm documents, choosing 
between 15 categories, such as Customer Engagement, 
Safety Walk & Talk, Workshop or Field Engagement.Zero Harm on the go: new engagement app 
Fiscal year
Occupational illnesses12022 2021
Occupational illness frequency rate2 of employees30.28 0.55
1  Illnesses declared as an occupational illness and recognized by an external authority/insurance company  
or by a physician.
2 Number of occupational illnesses x 1,000,000/work hours performed. 
3 Data for 2022 is global. Data for 2021 only for Germany.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 44Promoting health 
Within the overall OHS management approach, prevention is our key strat-
egy for the sustainable promotion of employee health. Each GP Business 
Unit is required to identify and implement health management programs 
that focus on healthy working and healthy employees – reflecting local 
needs and conditions.
SGRE runs a centralized health management program combined with ini-
tiatives deployed at Business Unit and regional levels.
When considering global approaches, representatives from EHS, Quality 
Governance and Security (EQS) and specialists from the countries (health 
management, safety officers), including SGRE, form a team of approxi-
mately 20 key members to discuss relevant tasks. EQS organizes the meet-
ings, questionnaires, tools and evaluation of data. The teams can be 
extended for special tasks as required.
As part of the GP Zero Harm Framework, managers are required to establish 
programs and activities covering the following health-related building blocks:
• Fit for Work
• Health on Project Sites
• Healthy for Life
• Pandemic Management Plan
• Resilient for Work
• Safe from Workplace Exposure 
• Traveler Health 
These include training courses on topics such as exercise, nutrition, stress, 
physical well-being, psychological health and work-life balance.We also carried out our annual GP global health management survey in 
2022, which provides transparency on the health management status in 
each country and enables us to help each country identify areas for 
improvement. This includes establishing whether defined health manage-
ment standards have been implemented by countries or will be imple-
mented by a certain date. 
Further to this, GP launched a global initiative on mental health with the 
motto “Mental Health is a Team Purple priority – Let’s make it better!” The 
initiative aims to increase awareness of mental health globally at GP and to 
launch campaigns based on the set strategy. 
SGRE provides corporate initiatives covering the same health priorities and 
topics as GP through the Health at Heart Pathway program. In addition, 
SGRE uses the healthy lifestyle app Care+, which includes team challenges 
and virtual sports clubs.
The SGRE global health surveys apply the same criteria as GP and are com-
bined with a specific pulse check focused on stress evolution. SGRE carries 
out a global psychosocial risk assessment every third year.On the topic of mental health, SGRE follows the advice of its Mental Health 
Scientific Advisory Board, which it established in 2020, and is now report-
ing specific KPIs and targets in this field too.
Travel risk management 
Siemens Energy takes the duty of care of traveling employees very seri-
ously. We use a proprietary travel risk assessment and approval tool that 
ensures travel is only permitted and approved when appropriate protec-
tions are in place.
Employees are provided with healthcare coverage for international assign-
ments through major providers. While this is currently managed on a coun-
try-by-country basis, we have also contracted the global provider Interna-
tional SOS to manage all aspects of travel risk assessment and healthcare 
coordination.
Siemens Energy has a 24/7 hotline available to all employees and offers 
travel security awareness training through our online learning tool. 
Employees are provided with the location-based safety app Safeture that 
includes an emergency calling feature.
Siemens Energy China: Supporting mental health
To mitigate the long-term impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic on the 
mental health of employees, the Siemens Energy China Hub EHS team 
applied aspects of positive psychology theory to their Zero Harm Framework 
implementation. This involved focusing on employees’ character strengths 
and positive outcomes in their Zero Harm activities, which included EHS 
awareness web training, mental health awareness via various channels 
(such as Yammer and WeChat) and live and virtual stress release exercises. 
These mental health programs particularly benefited employees during the 
long Shanghai lockdown.
Positive action for employee mental health in China
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 45Conservation of resources
behavior at all levels of the organization (see chapter 	Occupational health 
and safety ). SGRE has specifically launched its Sustainability Vision 2040.
In this way, both reporting segments are addressing the relevant elements 
from global principles and behaviors to local environmental, health and 
safety risks in all activities across the organization.
We use environmental aspect assessments as part of our EHS management 
system to evaluate potential impacts related to our business activities. The 
assessments include impact severity and probability, providing information 
for management action and opportunities for improvement.
Additionally, our 3i program was developed to foster the ideas, initiatives 
and innovations of Siemens Energy employees worldwide. Ideas with EHS 
content are an especially important outcome of this program, as they con-
tribute to improving EHS aspects and can result in energy savings and cost 
reductions.• We strive to meet all environmental management standards
• Climate change risks have been assessed for all major locations 
• Zero Harm approach embeds responsible behavior at all levels of 
the organization 
At Siemens Energy, we aim to minimize our impact on the environment by 
reducing waste, freshwater withdrawal and emissions, as well as protect-
ing biodiversity.
Through our environmental protection measures and management sys-
tems, we contribute to SDG 6 “Clean Water and Sanitation”, SDG 7 “Afford-
able and Clean Energy”, SDG 12 “Responsible Consumption and Produc-
tion”, and SDG 13 “Climate Action”.
The number of environmental protection requirements and standards 
around the world is growing rapidly. With the help of our EHS manage-
ment systems, we aim to comply with applicable laws, regulations and 
stakeholder expectations. In both the GP and SGRE reporting segments, 
our EHS management systems are founded on the principles and elements 
of the international ISO 14001 and 50001 standards (see chapter 	Occu-
pational health and safety ) or energy audits as per national legislation. The 
objective of these systems is to continuously improve environmental per -
formance, lower environmental impacts and increase energy efficiency. 
For more information on energy consumption and emissions see chap-
ter	Decarbonization .Siemens Energy continues to instill a strong Zero Harm culture that recog-
nizes and reflects our societal responsibilities for environmental protection 
and the health and safety of our employees, business partners and other 
stakeholders who may be affected by our business activities. Our EHS Poli-
cies for both GP and SGRE provide a global framework for local programs 
and initiatives. The respective Heads of EHS at GP and SGRE support the 
designated member of the Executive Board responsible for EHS. For fur -
ther information on SGRE please refer to  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement 2022, C3. Sustainable Use of Resources .
In the GP reporting segment, the EHS Policy is further supported by the 
Zero Harm Framework, which aims to embed responsible principles and We are mindful of the impact our activities have on the environment  
and are committed to the sustainable use of natural resources.
Pollution protection – EPA awards Richland facility
Two projects at the Siemens Energy Richland (Mississippi, U.S.) facility to improve pro-
cess efficiency and reduce electricity use received a Pollution Prevention Recognition 
Award by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region 4. The EPA recognized 
the measures at the facility that saw automation and air flow improvements related to 
compressed air systems implemented and traditional roll-up doors replaced with high-
speed doors to reduce loss of air-conditioned air. The improvements resulted in over 
260,000 kWh of annual electricity savings and 239,000 pounds of CO2e avoidance.
Richland Facility: Award winning environmental improvementsAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 46Meeting environmental management standards
For the GP reporting segment, our Zero Harm Framework provides the 
foundation upon which we aim to meet the growing number of environ-
mental protection requirements of our customers and strengthen our posi-
tion as a sustainable company. In our activities, we are guided by the prin-
ciples of ISO 14001. Our main objectives focus on improving environmental 
performance in the areas of energy, air, water and waste, including:
• Increasing energy efficiency by using energy management systems at sites
• Adapting the purchasing strategy toward green electricity by 2023
• Controlling air-pollutant emissions by replacing ozone depleting sub-
stances and reducing solvents
• Assessing climate change risks, including water risks, and implementing 
local mitigation and prevention strategies
• Promoting zero waste to landfill by consistently preventing landfill waste 
and reducing waste materials
SGRE has defined its environmental targets as part of its Sustainability Vision 
2040. For further information please refer to 	SGRE Consolidated Non-  
Financial Statement 2022, A.7.9 Objectives, Resources and Results Evaluation .
Climate change risk assessment
As climate change progresses, we are aware of the risks that could impact 
our business. Climate-related risks such as flooding, extreme temperatures 
or hurricanes may cause evacuation of personnel, disruption of supply 
chains or damage to facilities. We have conducted a climate change risk 
assessment that will be our baseline for future actions, and we want to 
evaluate changes in physical climate parameters, plan resources and man-
age climate risks. We also perform local risk assessments to assess and 
evaluate EHS impacts and define emergency response measures.
In fiscal year 2022, the climate change risk assessment was performed for 
all relevant locations at GP exceeding 3,000m², including manufacturing 
locations and larger offices. This complements the already existing assess-
ment for all SGRE locations.Transparency of resource use
Waste
The environmental relevance of waste depends upon the type of waste 
and the methods used to dispose of it. Hazardous and non-hazardous 
waste fractions are each further divided into recyclable waste and waste 
for disposal. Waste from construction or demolition work is reported sepa-
rately, as this type of waste material arises independently from production.
The Siemens Energy Waste Catalogue aims to bring uniformity to the pro-
cess of categorizing waste across all global reporting locations and has 
been implemented for all of Siemens Energy within the new environmen-
tal reporting tool (see chapter 	Decarbonization ).
Waste intensity in fiscal year 2022 was 4.79x10-6 metric tons per € of reve-
nue. This is a reduction of 6% compared to fiscal year 2021. Absolute waste 
reduction in fiscal year 2022 was 4% compared to the previous year.
thereof  
reuse waste  
4Waste recycling and disposal¹
(1,000 metric tons)
Total recycled waste110  (114)
Waste for disposal28  (26)
thereof  
recycling waste  
88
thereof  
recovery  
19137 (140)
Total
Figure for previous year in brackets 
1 Excluding construction and other waste.Fiscal yearWaste Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons) 2022 2021
Non-hazardous waste 120 122
Hazardous waste 18 18
Construction waste 1 3
Other waste categories 1 3
Total 139 145
Waste intensity (metric tons/€ of revenue) 4.79x10-65.09x10-6
Recycling and recovery Fiscal year
(%) 2022 2021
Share of total recycling¹ 81 82
thereof recycled 64 54
thereof recovered 14 25
thereof reused 3 2
Share of recycled hazardous waste 54 68
¹ Excluding construction and other waste.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 47Water 
Water remains an important topic for Siemens Energy. We aim to carefully 
manage the use of fresh water in our operations as well as the impact of 
our projects on water resources in the surrounding areas. Water consump-
tion is predominantly related to manufacturing centers and office facilities 
in both reporting segments, GP and SGRE. For further information on SGRE 
please refer to 	SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2022, C3.7 Water 
Management .
Water risks are now analyzed as part of the climate change risk assess-
ment, making it easier to identify sites that are in high water risk areas. 
This supports locations in planning and implementing effective water 
management strategies and considers factors such as water stress, water 
pollution and flooding. Our locations aim to reduce water usage, con-
sumption and other related risks through their integrated management 
systems or by means of individual mitigation plans.
At Siemens Energy, the volume of water abstracted over the reporting 
period equates to 3.45 million cubic meters (fiscal year 2021: 4.10 million 
cubic meters). Water intensity in fiscal year 2022 was 1.19x10-4 cubic meters 
per € of revenue. This is a decrease of 16% in absolute water consumption 
and 17% in water intensity compared to fiscal year 2021. One factor that 
influenced the decrease is the greater transparency that we have achieved 
by the implementation of our global EHS reporting tool.Water consumption
3.5
2.8
0.6Total
Fresh water use(million cubic meters)
Ground and surface 
water for coolingFiscal year Water consumption Fiscal year
(million cubic meters) 2022 2021
Fresh water use 2.80 2.99
Ground and surface water for cooling (returned to 
receiving water body, chemically unchanged, but 
warmed)0.62 1.08
Total 3.45 4.10
Water intensity (cubic meters/€ of revenue) 1.19x10-41.44x10-4
Wastewater Fiscal year
(million cubic meters) 2022 2021
Wastewater from employee facilities 1.44 1.50
Wastewater from manufacturing processes 0.24 0.36
Other (incl. losses) 0.51 0.67
Conditioned cooling water discharged as wastewater 0.60 0.43
Total wastewater without chemically unchanged 
cooling water2.79 2.99
Cooling water (returned to receiving water body,  
chemically unchanged, but warmed)0.67 1.07
Total 3.46 4.06
Wastewater intensity (cubic meters/€ of revenue) 1.19x10-41.42x10-4Wastewater from our facilities and manufacturing processes amounts to 
3.46 million cubic meters (fiscal year 2021: 4.06 million cubic meters). 
Wastewater intensity in fiscal year 2022 was 1.19x10-4 cubic meters per € of 
revenue. This is a decrease of 15% in absolute wastewater and 16% in 
wastewater intensity compared to fiscal year 2021.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 48Biodiversity
Maintaining biodiversity is crucial if we are to sustain healthy ecosystems. 
Siemens Energy uses natural resources (water, fuels and materials) at its 
offices and production and project sites. This interaction with the environ-
ment could introduce negative impacts on local ecosystems, habitats and 
species.
The conservation of biodiversity is integrated into our environmental man-
agement systems, which help us carry out our work and projects as sus-
tainably as possible.
Many local biodiversity initiatives have been identified by our employees 
and are supported by Siemens Energy to protect biodiversity and create a 
safe environment for plants and animals. Examples include tree plantings, 
insect-friendly wildflower meadows, hives for wild bees, bird-nesting 
areas, roof greening measures and the creation of nature pools.
SGRE launched its own biodiversity commitment in 2022, which sets out 
its ambitions to manage biodiversity across operations in all countries and 
regions where SGRE operates (including the supply chain), foster innova-
tion and research on the impacts of wind turbines, promote effective and 
transparent reporting and communication and develop training and 
awareness activities around the topic. Environment-related incidents
Environmental incidents resulting from our business activities, including 
product-related incidents, can cause damage to our natural environment 
and surroundings. 
During fiscal year 2022, there were two significant environmental inci-
dents related to Siemens Energy (fiscal year 2021: two). 
One was a related to an oil spill from a transformer that had been caused 
by an act of vandalism, and the second was the release of a moderate 
amount of SF6 due to the failure of an instrumentation device during 
equipment testing.
As a company, we will investigate, assess and derive measures that will 
prevent such incidents from happening again.Zero landfill in Brazil
At Siemens Energy in Brazil, all sites have now achieved 
zero landfill waste generation, which means less than 1% 
of waste being directly or indirectly disposed in landfill¹. 
This was done through increasing waste segregation, 
recycling and developing new solutions for waste dis-
posal besides landfill. The sites achieved 90.5% recycling 
in their operations and in fiscal year 2022, only 4 metric 
tons of waste were sent to landfill (without debris/con-
struction waste), down from 295 metric tons in 2021 –  
a reduction of 99%.New from old: recycling waste in Brazil
¹  Excluding construction waste.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 49Product stewardship
Managing environmental risks 
As part of our holistic product stewardship approach, we take environmen-
tal risks seriously. Our approach is founded on the minimum standards set 
by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), internal EHS guidelines 
(specific EHS processes and checklists for product development and Busi-
ness Unit-specific EHS plans), and other ESG criteria from external stake-
holders. 
We have further developed our risk management by including an ESG due 
diligence approach. We are now screening our products, projects and ser -
vices against a list of relevant ESG criteria. We implemented a question-
naire in our sales process for our Transmission Division in fiscal year 2022. 
Training will be provided to increase awareness and competence regarding 
the criteria. 
This questionnaire is also aligned with the EU Taxonomy’s criteria. We will 
continue to develop this approach further in preparation for reporting on 
the EU Taxonomy (see chapter 	Decarbonization ) in fiscal year 2023. This 
lean ESG risk management combines a due diligence and a risk mitigation 
process.
During project execution and delivery of products and services, we addi-
tionally identify mitigation measures based on input from the environmen-
tal impact assessments available – otherwise using IFC EHS guidelines as a 
basis – regarding energy consumption and efficiency (including our GHG 
footprint), air emissions, noise, water conservation, waste management, 
hazardous materials management and physical, chemical and radiological 
hazards as part of our EHS site management.• Strong focus on climate change adaptation and resource efficiency 
in the product life cycle
• Material compliance approach provides transparency on substance 
management
• Spotlight on circularity in all our products and processes 
Siemens Energy is committed to promoting greater environmental responsi-
bility and to developing environmentally friendly technologies. As a partici-
pant of the UNGC initiative, we aim to contribute to the achievement of the 
SDGs with our product stewardship activities, especially SDG 12 “Responsi-
ble Consumption and Production”, which seeks to couple economic growth 
and development with sustainable consumption and production patterns. 
Our approach to product stewardship at Siemens Energy includes all envi-
ronmental aspects with a strong focus on climate change adaptation and 
resource efficiency. It takes into account all life cycle phases, including 
product development and design, manufacturing, operation, service and 
end of life. Measures include life cycle assessments (LCA), environmental 
product declarations (EPD), component upgrades,and lifetime extensions, 
as well as recycling. By continually analyzing our products, solutions and 
services, quantifying their impacts and determining areas for improve-
ment, we are building the foundation for deriving and implementing mea-
sures that contribute to a circular economy.Product stewardship at Siemens Energy follows the key standards of the 
ISO 14000 series, with individual approaches for each Division. The 
approaches are centrally supported by the respective global EHS Functions.
Product stewardship is also an integral part of our Zero Harm approach 
within Siemens Energy. SGRE has specifically launched its Sustainability 
Vision 2040. The aims and objectives of the GP and SGRE approaches are 
to prevent adverse effects to health and the environment due to our busi-
ness and operational activities (see also chapter 	Occupational health and 
safety ). In GP, product stewardship is covered by the Zero Harm building 
blocks “Material Compliance” and “Life Cycle Assessments”. The Material 
Compliance building block provides guidance on the management, analy -
sis and tracking of restricted and regulated substances in products, ser -
vices and solutions. The LCA building block defines the process for evaluat-
ing the environmental impacts of our products, systems and materials over 
the entire life cycle. This process aims at ensuring that each business has a 
good knowledge and understanding of the requirements for LCAs and 
their importance for our customers or suppliers directly engaged in the 
completion of an LCA. A detailed LCA process description has been 
launched to ensure a common methodology within GP. SGRE already has 
all products covered by LCAs.We take environmental, health, and safety criteria into account at every 
stage of the product life cycle and work to minimize negative effects.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 50Wherever possible, we are partnering with suppliers, contractors, custom-
ers and other interested parties to meet product-related environmental key 
business requirements. Customer requirements and related resource 
requirements are continuously assessed in each Business Unit, and coordi-
nators for product-related topics have been appointed. We are planning to 
further intensify collaboration with our suppliers to, for example, collect 
further details regarding our Scope 3 upstream emissions and identify fur -
ther reduction potential. 
Circularity is a high priority for Siemens Energy, and we are collaborating 
on a number of research projects in this area.
At SGRE, the launch of the RecyclableBlade – the world’s first wind turbine 
blade that can be recycled at the end of its life cycle – is an important step 
toward the goal of making turbines fully recyclable by 2040 (see highlight-
box). So far, SGRE has reached agreements with a number of its major cus-
RecyclableBlade
In 2021, SGRE launched RecyclableBlade, the first com-
prehensive recyclable rotor blade solution that is ready 
for commercial offshore projects. The RecyclableBlade is 
produced the same way as a standard blade. The only 
difference is the use of a new type of resin that allows 
the blade components to be efficiently and gently sepa-
rated from one another at the end of the blade’s working 
life. This allows the individual materials to be recycled 
for new applications across various industries – a major 
step toward creating a waste-free wind industry.
Waste-free: blade components are reusable at end of life
tomers for RecyclableBlades. RWE is testing the blades at its offshore wind-
park Kaskasi, while Vattenfall and BASF are installing three at the Hollandse 
Kust Zuid offshore wind farm, and EDF Renewables aims to deploy several 
sets of RecyclableBlades at a future offshore project.
Life cycle assessments and environmental product 
declarations 
To use resources optimally, we have adopted a sustainable management 
approach over the entire product life cycle by conducting LCAs and pub-
lishing EPDs. The LCA and EPD approach is managed globally by the EHS 
Function and is closely linked to organizational teams dealing with  
product-related environmental protection. We have developed and pub-
lished our internal LCA standard in order to further standardize and align 
our approach and answer customer requests.  The results from LCAs are used to:
• Identify opportunities to improve environmental performance within 
the design and manufacturing processes – for example, improving 
material selection, optimizing manufacturing processes and closing 
loops in material recycling
• Communicate environmental performance to internal and external 
stakeholders
To increase transparency and facilitate dialogue with our customers and 
stakeholders, Siemens Energy uses EPDs that are based on:
• ISO 14021 for Type II product declarations and labels that address envi-
ronmentally relevant information for customers, mainly based on full-
scale LCAs
We also plan to include external verification of our LCAs where required. 
September 30
LCAs and EPDs 2022 2021
LCAs (no.) 229 124
thereof full-scale1228 108
thereof screening21 16
Portfolio coverage by full-scale LCAs (%)372 71
EPDs (no.) 158 105
1 Full-scale LCAs adopt a comprehensive approach, covering the environmental impacts over the entire life cycle.
2 Screening LCAs cover environmentally relevant parts or phases of a product life cycle.
3  Share of full-scale LCAs is calculated based on the business segment structure. One business segment is consid-
ered to be one portfolio element. All portfolio elements containing material products have been determined to 
be ‘relevant’ for this performance indicator. If full-scale LCAs are available for products of a portfolio element, 
this portfolio element is considered to be ‘covered’. The share represents the percentage of covered portfolio 
elements relative to the total number of relevant portfolio elements.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 51Our EcoTransparency app, which is also based on LCAs, calculates scenarios 
and related impacts based on strategic and customer-specific boundary 
conditions (including local energy mix, load cycling, transport, material 
selection, etc.). It aims to derive and illustrate improved solutions with 
lower environmental impacts.
We continuously review our LCAs and EPDs. The table above provides a 
summary of the number of LCAs (full-scale and screening) and EPDs. The 
number of LCAs significantly increased in 2022 because all Business Units 
continuously work to cover more of their products with LCAs, mainly due 
to customer requests.
Material compliance 
A large variety of materials and substances are used in our products, man-
ufacturing and services. Only a few are subject to closer scrutiny (e.g., 
chromium, lead, etc.). The nature and quantity of substances and materi-
als used in products are becoming increasingly relevant, especially if 
reused and recycled. The ecodesign decisions we make today consider 
future legal and EHS requirements as well as the implications of resource 
scarcity. Furthermore, the European Commission has published a list of 
critical raw materials that is subject to regular review and updates. Trans-
parency regarding materials and substances is the key enabler for a circular 
economy and the upcoming EU initiative for sustainable product design.
We aim to comply with all legal requirements, such as REACH (Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), RoHS (Restriction 
of Hazardous Substances) and similar international requirements. Siemens 
Energy uses globally standardized materials and substances registers for 
restricted and declarable substances and products. The lists identify any 
substances that need to be declared for each product and are updated 
every six months according to current directives from the European  
Chemicals Agency. As part of the Siemens Energy supplier assessment and 
qualification process, suppliers are required to identify whether any of their products or components contain substances that need to be declared 
according to the specific legislation. Suppliers then need to provide a 
detailed declaration should any such substances be used within their 
design and manufacturing activities. 
In GP, we encourage our suppliers to use the industry substance manage-
ment platform BOMCheck to share declarations for Substances of Very 
High Concern (SVHC) and link this information to our IT systems. In this 
way, we can proactively manage risks related to substance restrictions. 
This year we continued the implementation of the reporting requirement 
Substances of Concern in Products (SCIP), a database established under 
the EU’s Waste Framework Directive that registers products containing 
SVHC. For one unit of GP, we have also implemented a pilot project for 
automated reporting to the EU system.
In GP, we have further developed our cross-functional material compliance 
approach (in cooperation with the Procurement department) and imple-
mented it accordingly. We achieved increased transparency regarding sub-
stances in our products during supplier qualification. The approach focuses 
on full bill of materials (BOM) data provision with substance management 
and the development of LCA programs to improve sustainable product 
design. We aim to cover the entire value chain. In 2022, our gas and steam 
turbine organization analyzed around 10,000 specifications and drawings 
of large combined cycle power plant projects and extracted and digitized 
material information to ensure compliance with restrictions and declaration 
duties. For recent projects, we evaluated BOMs for compliance with REACH 
Lists of Declarable Substances and compiled BOM-based declaration infor -
mation for our internal partners. We are currently evaluating the extension 
of our product life cycle management system to determine its potential to 
perform substance management compliance in Engineering. 
Within its substance management process, SGRE also evaluates requests for 
the use of new chemical products against the SGRE-defined list of prohib-
ited products and list of restricted products. For further information please 
refer to 	SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2022, C3.8 Substances .Circular economy projects in Brazil
Siemens Energy Brazil has undertaken a circular economy project 
that addresses all products manufactured in Brazil, the services to 
reduce waste generation in manufacturing and the products’ carbon 
footprint. In addition, an LCA was carried out for a product at the 
site to understand the impact of the circularity results. The outcome 
of this is available in the EcoTransparency App.
The Brazilian site in Jundiai has also launched the Desapega  
initiative, a circular economy solution to increase the lifecycle of 
equipment and materials that would otherwise be sent to disposal. 
Desapega is a marketplace tool offering the Siemens Energy  
Brazilian community goods for purchase or to give away.Understanding impact, reducing waste and extending product lifecycles
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 52The transparency of materials and substances across our product portfolio 
is key for a sustainable energy supply, for supporting and promoting a cir -
cular economy and for making informed decisions about material selection 
and related impacts. Furthermore, industry is currently facing the chal-
lenge to provide more detailed reporting on GHG emissions from materials 
in order to meet the requirements of the EU Green Deal. The EU Taxonomy 
(see chapter 	Decarbonization ) will also lead to a need for action on the 
part of companies.
Product safety 
Product safety and product quality topics are addressed for GP and SGRE 
via defined processes, which are published in the Process Houses, report-
ing lines, and organizational structures. Customers, developers and manu-
facturers are provided with user and service manuals that describe the safe 
use of products, functionality and product maintenance requirements.
The new GP product safety system was implemented in October 2021 and 
is valid for all GP Units. The system focuses on both the technical and orga-
nizational aspects of product safety. The technical aspect ensures that the 
products developed, manufactured and/or sold by GP are safe and do not 
cause any unacceptable risk to the life, health or property of third parties. 
The organizational aspect covers the implementation of responsibilities, 
organizational structures and processes to comply with legal requirements 
and relevant internal rules and regulations. The effectiveness of the prod-uct safety system was evaluated within the Siemens Energy GP annual 
Product Safety Report. Based on this, we have defined a product safety 
action plan and derived improvement measures. These included product 
safety training for 250 employees, product safety officers and their line 
managers. In fiscal year 2022 internal controls were defined and imple-
mented. These controls focus on the company obligation toward product 
monitoring and internal and external product warnings.
SGRE assesses the impacts of its products on the health and safety of its 
customers from the initial development stages with the aim of improving 
them through design and project management policies. This is achieved by 
describing product safety as an umbrella term for the quality management 
and HSE procedures and processes we have in place to protect customers, 
employees and members of the public from any risk derived from our prod-
ucts or our manufacturing, installation, operating and decommissioning 
activities. Management procedures are in place to establish responsibili-
ties, workflows and activities to ensure that component designs are opti-
mal and do not produce unnecessary hazards or endanger the health and 
safety of those working directly with the component as a result of poor 
safety design. For instance, SGRE has issued an instruction that defines the 
processes for ensuring the wind turbines and/or related products that we 
put on the market in the EU or EEA (European Economic Area) comply with 
any Directives that apply inside and outside the EU, where those require-
ments are established by contractual obligations to customers.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 53Sustainable supply chain management
Binding Code of Conduct for suppliers
All GP suppliers and third-party intermediaries must sign the Code of Con-
duct (CoC) for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries. The CoC is based 
on the Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) and Principles of the UNGC.
The CoC requires specific environmental, compliance and labor standards 
to be established across all countries of operations. In June 2022, we 
expanded our CoC to include a cybersecurity clause. It now includes the 
following topics:
• Human rights and labor practices, including (among others): 
 ›Prohibition of forced labor
 ›Prohibition of child labor
 ›Health and safety of employees
 ›Grievance mechanism
• Environmental protection
• Fair operating practices, including (among others):
 ›Anti-corruption and bribery
 ›Anti-money laundering, terrorism financing
 ›Data privacy and cybersecurity
• Responsible minerals sourcing
• Compliance with the CoC principles in the supply chain of the supplier
Similarly, SGRE requires its suppliers to comply with its CoC for Suppliers 
and Third-Party Intermediaries, established in line with SGRE principles 
and values according to its BCG and its Global Corporate Social Responsi-
bility Policy. Its requirements aim to ensure that working conditions in the • Supplier management processes apply strict criteria for selection
• Increased supply chain risks addressed through preventative action
• Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments are an integral part of 
the supplier qualification process 
Our supplier network extends across 139 countries worldwide. As interna-
tional regulations for corporate responsibility tighten and global disrup-
tions due to conflict, the pandemic and climate change increase, it is cru-
cial we manage our supply chain sustainably, transparently and responsibly 
to make it more resilient. We aim to achieve this through solid relation-
ships with suppliers that share our values and are equally committed to 
the protection of human rights, fair labor practices, anti-corruption mea-
sures and the environment. 
By anchoring sustainability criteria in the selection, qualification, assess-
ment and development of our suppliers, we are contributing to the UN 
SDGs. With approximately 30,000 suppliers and a procurement volume of 
€21.5 billion in fiscal year 2022 (fiscal year 2021: €17.3 billion), we see our 
biggest contributions to SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth” and 
SDG 12 “Responsible Consumption and Production”. To meet these SDGs, 
we carefully consider labor conditions throughout upstream production 
processes and monitor the impact of our activities closely. We have also rolled out a global supplier decarbonization program to further increase 
transparency around our carbon emissions in our supply chain (see chap-
ter 	Decarbonization ) and address climate protection within our supply 
chain. This, in turn, addresses SDG 13 “Climate Action”.
While it is evident that climate change will have a major impact on global 
supply chains, it is vital we are prepared for other risks, such as global pan-
demics. Since the onset of COVID-19, there have been multiple and ongo-
ing disruptions to supply chains worldwide. With the war in Ukraine and a 
further COVID-19 outbreak in China, the situation has become even more 
challenging. These events are compounding the existing logistics short-
ages and interruptions. Siemens Energy Procurement has been working 
together with operations and our project teams to mitigate the effects and 
safeguard customer commitments. By establishing a systematic supply 
chain resilience and crisis management procedure, we have been able to 
detect risks early, prepare preventive action and define mitigation mea-
sures to reduce risk exposures.
An important factor in our risk management is our relationship to our sup-
pliers. We therefore have processes and policies in place that aim to ensure 
suppliers meet specific ESG requirements.Sustainable business requires a sustainable supply chain. We work in 
partnership with our global suppliers to uphold international standards  
for social and environmental responsibility.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 54supply chain are safe, that workers are treated with respect and dignity, 
and that business operations with suppliers are ethically, socially and envi-
ronmentally responsible. Next to the CoC, SGRE’s Supplier Relationship Pol-
icy, General Purchasing Conditions, and internal rules and procedures all 
set minimum requirements for suppliers to comply with. For further infor -
mation please refer to SGRE’s 	SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 
2022, E3. Responsible Supply Chain .
Comprehensive supplier management 
GP’s supply chain management approach defines strategic procurement 
processes to sustain the company’s long-term success, which are overseen 
by the Head of Procurement, reporting to the Executive Board. The 
approach includes purchasing materials and services cost-effectively, 
ascertaining high quality standards along the entire supply chain, identify -
ing and exploiting opportunities to create value through procurement 
competence and fostering compliance and sustainability. 
The supplier management process in place encompasses an extensive 
range of procedures and tools to enable transparency and awareness 
regarding expenses, supplier data and related risks and opportunities in 
the supply chain. It helps managers leverage the potential of our supplier 
network. The GP procurement process applies strict criteria for supplier 
selection and qualification. These include financial stability, quality and availability, together with overriding sustainability criteria, such as con-
tractor safety, substance declarations and sustainability self-assessments. 
In June 2022, GP added a cybersecurity (CYS) assessment process for all 
suppliers for which CYS is relevant.
SGRE has introduced an upgraded ESG Risk & Performance Management 
Framework, advancing from risk-based assessments to risk- and impact-
based assessments. This framework is composed of several complemen-
tary steps designed to accelerate sustainability throughout our supply 
chain. Based on an initial supplier impact screening, it encourages suppli-
ers to provide further details on how they are working with sustainability 
across their own operations and supply chains.  
While the framework aims to identify and reward high-performing suppli-
ers, SGRE also helps suppliers who are not yet achieving the highest stan-
dards but are eager to improve their performance. Accordingly, SGRE will 
incentivize “best-in-class” and “best-in-progress” suppliers as part of the 
supplier selection process.  
As part of Siemens Energy’s overall approach to decarbonize its operations 
throughout the entire value chain, we are actively encouraging our suppli-
ers to also reduce their carbon emissions. For more information, see chap-
ter 	Decarbonization .
Risk awareness
Using our sustainability risk analysis system, we systematically identify 
potential risks in our supply chain every year. The cornerstones of this sys-
tem are:
• Identification of risks and categorization of commodities
• Establishment of risk levels for individual countries (determined using 
sustainability indicators for key areas such as compliance with laws, 
bribery and corruption, human rights in the workplace, child labor, 
etc.), making use of information supplied by internationally recognized 
organizations
• Use of different strategic measures, for example, special preparation of 
projects with large, local procurement volumesTo further strengthen GP’s supplier sustainability risk management system, 
we initiated the calculation of social risk hours for our suppliers and their 
scope of supply. These are working hours in our supply chain that might be 
exposed to social risks, such as those in the areas of human rights or health 
and safety. This risk indication is not limited to country risks, but also 
includes commodity-specific risks. It additionally supports buyers through 
the prioritization and nomination of high-risk suppliers for conducting 
external sustainability audits.Cornerstones of our risk analysis system
Categorization of  
commoditiesRisk levels for  
individual countries
Strategic  
measures
Supplier awards
At Siemens Energy, we celebrate our diverse small suppliers with an 
annual awards ceremony. This fiscal year, Siemens Energy honored 
four small businesses – three women-owned small businesses and one 
minority business – for their contribution to the success of Siemens 
Energy by being agile, innovative, responsive to Siemens Energy’s 
requests and delivering on time while offering competitive prices. 
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 55Supplier assessment 
We use Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments (CRSAs), covering all 
major aspects of the CoC, as part of the supplier qualification process that 
is regularly reviewed and updated as necessary to reflect new standards 
and regulations. New potential suppliers undergo a qualification process, 
while existing suppliers are reevaluated every three years. Siemens Energy 
screens suppliers regarding all aspects of the CoC. 
In fiscal year 2022, GP expanded the implementation of its CRSAs to 
include all suppliers¹, not just those from high-risk countries. 
Compared with fiscal year 2021, the number of CRSAs increased by 106% 
to 3,466 conducted self-assessments. This can be mainly explained by GP’s 
expansion to all countries and for two reasons at SGRE – a high number of 
new CoC registrations that increased the number of self-assessments, as well 
as the rollout of the ESG Risk and Performance Management Framework.
Furthermore, we conduct quality audits that include questions about sus-
tainability that cover major aspects and requirements of the CoC. In fiscal 
year 2022, we conducted 961 on-site audits worldwide, compared to 424 
supplier quality audits in fiscal year 2021. This significant increase was due 
to SGRE’s integration of Senvion and Adwen and the qualification of a 
larger range of suppliers.
We see external sustainability audits (ESA) as the most effective means of 
reviewing our suppliers’ sustainability performance. Focusing on quality 
and objectivity, external audit partners conduct the ESAs. We assign repeat 
or follow-up audits if necessary. In fiscal year 2022, Siemens Energy con-
ducted 167 ESAs. This number increased from 157 audits in fiscal year 2021, 
despite ongoing COVID-19 restrictions. Furthermore, we accepted 76 ESAs 
of suppliers where audits have been initiated by other companies. We only 
accept audits that fulfill our requirements and where the full audit docu-
mentation is provided to us.
Throughout the supplier assessment processes, we remain committed to 
the partnership with our suppliers and to helping them improve. However, 
if problems persist and/or the suppliers do not show a willingness to take necessary corrective action, we remove them from our list of approved 
suppliers. All local instances of blocked suppliers are reported to Corporate 
Procurement, where the need for a worldwide block is discussed and 
decided. In 2022, no supplier was dismissed, as all suppliers with negative 
results are collaborating and implementing corrective actions.
In addition to the processes described above, we have a “Central Warning 
Message” system in place. This facilitates a fast, efficient response to viola-
tions of the CoC requirements. The responsible Procurement departments 
at Siemens Energy are authorized to agree on a series of remedial steps 
with the supplier. Potential misconduct can be reported via the whis-
tleblower hotlines “Speak Up” at GP and “Integrity Hotline” at SGRE. There 
were no cases reported in fiscal year 2022.
To inform Siemens Energy employees, suppliers and further external  
stakeholders, GP developed and published a web-based training in fiscal 
year 2022 that explains GP's approach to promoting sustainability in its 
supply chain.Reducing supplier emissions in China
With reducing its supply chain emissions (Scope 3) in mind, the China 
Procurement team has developed a “Decarb Toolbox” for Siemens 
Energy suppliers. The toolbox aims to transfer knowledge and broaden 
the decarbonization capabilities of suppliers by communicating guid-
ance and methodologies regarding decarbonization in their own oper -
ations. The toolbox has been shared with 156 suppliers based in China.
The team is also working closely with three suppliers to identify CO2 
reduction lighthouse projects. Following an initial questionnaire and 
on-site survey, Siemens Energy provided a comprehensive review of 
the supplier's own operations emissions and both long-term and 
short-term improvement suggestions. The project aims to support our 
suppliers in their sustainability journey. 
¹  To be conducted by all suppliers with a purchasing volume > €10,000 p. a. Procurement in Latin America promoting 
supplier sustainability
A series of supplier sustainability awareness sessions held in May 
and June 2022 aimed to inform around 200 suppliers across Latin 
America about Siemens Energy’s sustainability strategy and its 
goal to decarbonize the value chain. The sessions were coordi-
nated by a cross-functional team from the Siemens Energy Latin 
American Hub and included further topics such as compliance 
risks, environmental protection and inclusion & diversity in the 
workforce. 
The Latin American Procurement team received responses from 
over 80% of their suppliers in the region.
Finally, Siemens Energy Procurement in Brazil and Colombia have 
developed a robust EHS assessment program for service provid-
ers to promote sustainability and manage EHS risks during pur -
chasing. The program includes a supplier analysis to support 
transparency, accuracy and compliance with county laws.
Supplier quality audits with integrated  
sustainability questionsFiscal year
2022 2021
Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 615 227
Americas 148 98
Asia, Australia 198 99
Total 961 424
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 56External 
sustainability 
audits: 
167Corporate 
Responsibility
Self-Assessments:
3,466
Supplier quality 
audits by internal 
experts:961Supplier sustainability assessments
Fiscal year
Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments (CRSA)12022 2021
Number
Europe, C.I.S.2, Africa, Middle East 1,256 614
Americas 768 355
Asia, Australia 1,442 716
Total 3,466 1,685
Agreed upon improvement measures3
Legal compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery 305 233
Respect for the basic human rights of employees 154 145
Prohibition of child labor 7 –
Health and safety of employees 282 77
Environmental protection 455 106
Supply chain 150 24
Responsible minerals sourcing 9 2
Total 1,362 587
1  GP: To be conducted by all suppliers with a purchasing volume > €10,000 p.a.;  
SGRE: To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing volume > €50,000 p.a. 
Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review.
2 Commonwealth of Independent States.
3 Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries or to structural improvements to management systems and the lack of 
specific processes and guidelines at the supplier. SGRE data reported from May 2022 onward. Number of CRSAs 
at SGRE amounted to 1,863.Fiscal year
External sustainability audits (ESA) 2022 2021
Number
Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 61 48
Americas 16 24
Asia, Australia 90 85
Total 167 157
Agreed upon improvement measures2
Legal compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery 392 438
Respect for the basic human rights of employees 915 972
Prohibition of child labor 27 35
Health and safety of employees 895 985
Environmental protection 52 56
Supply chain 111 99
Total 2,392 2,585
Accepted ESAs 76 85
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.
2  Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries or to structural improvements to management systems and the lack of 
specific processes and guidelines at the supplier. Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 57Responsible minerals sourcing
We are committed to preventing the use of minerals from conflict-affected 
and high-risk areas in their supply chain that are affected by the risks 
defined in Annex 2 of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible 
Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. 
To this end, we have a Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy (formerly 
“Conflict Minerals Policy”) in place to provide a uniform, company-wide 
supply chain management standard. To determine the use, sources and 
origin of these minerals in our supply chains, we investigate the smelters 
involved. Siemens Energy is part of the steering committee of the Respon-
sible Minerals Initiative (RMI), which provides an assessment program for 
smelters (Responsible Minerals Assurance Process).
When surveying our approximately 1,600 (fiscal year 2021: 1,800) relevant 
suppliers, we use the RMI’s Conflict Minerals Reporting Template to obtain 
the necessary information on smelters producing tin, tantalum, tungsten, 
and gold (3TG). We are actively involved in the Responsible Minerals Assur -
ance Process by screening smelters for eligibility and encouraging uncerti-
fied smelters to take part in RMI’s assessment programs. All newly reported 
smelters are shared with RMI. Based on risk sources identified by the EU, which cover armed conflicts, 
weak governance and human right abuses, Siemens Energy also conducts 
a specific mineral risk assessment to identify other relevant minerals apart 
from 3TG. After cobalt, we added copper to our supply chain due diligence 
processes according to the 5-step framework of the OECD Due Diligence 
Guidance. In addition to our RMI membership and strategic partnership 
with the European Partnership for Responsible Minerals, we also became a 
member of the Copper Mark at the end of 2021.
SGRE has revised its Rare Earth Due Diligence Program to allow for close 
sustainability monitoring throughout the whole permanent magnet supply 
chain. The program aims to foster supply chain transparency and monitor 
compliance with SGRE’s Code of Conduct. We are therefore closely collabo-
rating with our direct suppliers to identify all relevant indirect suppliers 
throughout the lower tiers. Based on this transparency, we are conducting 
sustainability assessments to identify risks and improvement opportunities.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 58
Kristen Panerali: Nadja, today countries, businesses 
and households are facing a triple crisis of climate, 
energy security and affordability, especially with 
geopolitics and war putting added pressure on supply, 
demand and delivery. Yet, there are so many solutions 
out there that can address climate and energy secu -
rity – and be deployed in a way that creates a fair, just 
and inclusive system. What that means is that people 
need to be at the center.
Nadja Haakansson: I agree, Kristen. The essence and 
core of a just transition is ensuring no one is left 
behind. And it means that when we collaboratively 
take collective action around outlining and imple -
menting new energy and climate strategies, we really 
consider this social impact.
For example, you have communities that depend 
heavily on the coal business, so it is important to 
quickly provide the certainty that repurposing and 
reskilling is part of the plan – and that the green 
economy will provide millions of new jobs along with 
the repurposing of existing jobs.Kristen Panerali: And do it in a way that lifts people 
out of energy poverty. 
Nadja Haakansson: Absolutely. Considering that 
almost 800 million people globally still do not have 
access to energy, ending energy poverty in the devel -
oping part of the world is a key step to ensuring their 
socio-economic development. But developing coun -
tries depend on support from industrialized, devel -
oped parts of the world through various elements: 
financing, governments, policy frameworks and 
different ways of stimulating the massive investment 
required.
Kristen Panerali: And energy poverty is not only a 
challenge in emerging markets. Access to modern 
energy from heating and cooling and affordable elec -
tricity and gas is a just transition issue in developed 
economies too. But certainly far more investment and 
action are needed in emerging markets. Recently, the 
World Economic Forum, along with the IEA and the 
World Bank, put out a report showing that investments 
in clean energy in emerging markets have to be multi -Giving the energy transition  
a fair shake
The energy transition is having a massive impact on the world, the cost of which we are only just  
beginning to come to terms with. Nadja Haakansson and Kristen Panerali discuss how a trillion-dollar  
upheaval in global dynamics and labor can be just and fair if it places people at the center. 
Nadja Haakansson, Siemens Energy’s Managing 
Director for Africa, has held different roles across a 
variety of geographies and Business Units at Siemens, 
starting in Sweden in 2005. She now focuses on the 
development of the African energy infrastructure, local 
skills and talent, and long-term prosperity for society.
Kristen Panerali, Head of Energy, Material and Infra-
structure Clean Power and Electrification at the 
World Economic Forum, began her career at the 
White House before moving into the energy sector 
where she helps shape a more sustainable, just and 
resilient economy.
The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 59
plied by seven annually until 2030 to keep the world 
on track to reach net zero and different SDG goals. Part 
of the Paris Agreement stated that the developed 
world must support developing regions in addressing 
energy supply and sustainability. Where do you see us 
standing today?
Nadja Haakansson: Right now, plenty of support and 
financial commitments have been made, such as the 
Global Gateway Africa-Europe Investment Package of 
about 150 billion euros announced earlier this year at 
the European Union-African Union Summit. But what is 
lacking is the translation of these commitments into 
tangible projects. At the end of the day, concrete pro-  
jects must be bankable. And they must generate the 
benefits they intend, and attract beneficial financing 
conditions and concessional loans. 
Kristen Panerali: There is also a real opportunity to 
shift the political and commercial focus beyond cost to 
include value. Which is why the World Economic Forum 
often uses a framework that focuses on value creation, 
evaluating how solutions can drive outcomes with 
enormous economic and societal returns, for example, improved energy access, job creation, economic devel -
opment, emissions reduction or improved air quality. 
This type of system value framework can help diverse 
stakeholders from government and business to more 
easily create a common narrative and goals and eval -
uate solutions. There are solutions, technologies and 
business models being deployed around the world that 
are accelerating the clean energy transition in ways 
that deliver significant value. And it is through multi-  
stakeholder dialogue that governments and businesses 
from around the world can learn from each other 
about what works and what can be replicated.
Nadja Haakansson: And here we need to be mindful 
that the developing part of the world is not being 
blocked in its development, because the energy transi -
tion in the developed part of the world cannnot be 
compared to Africa or other developing continents. 
The voices of the African leaders and the African 
companies that I interact with reason that it would be 
hypocritical of a developed continent such as the 
EU – that for the past 200 years had massive develop -
ment based on coal – to now impose their own regu -
lation and limit a continent like Africa. Because Africa contributes minimally to global green -
house gas emissions – less than 4 percent. And even if 
Africa deployed all its natural gas resources, the contri -
bution would still be marginal. 
This is where technology does play a role. We have 
hydrogen-capable gas turbines that, if implemented 
today, would reduce carbon emissions by half versus a 
coal-fired power plant. In the long term, these 
gas-fired power plants can be repurposed through 
simple replacements of combustion burners and 
combustion chambers in the gas turbines and essen -
tially emit zero emissions with the deployment of 
hydrogen.
Kristen Panerali: This is also where far more focus 
needs to be put on local communities and workforce, 
putting people at the center of the transition. So going 
back to our conversation at the beginning.
Already there are great examples of repurposing coal 
plants into new clean energy facilities – and doing so in a way that engages communities and creates eco -
nomic opportunity. When repurposing coal plants, you 
can leverage the existing grid connection, the existing 
land, and transform the existing infrastructure into a 
new opportunity for clean power and new training and 
jobs for the local community. The Forum has recently 
produced several case studies from around the world 
on this topic.
Nadja Haakansson: The UN climate summits are also 
an important platform. COP27 was hosted in Africa. 
And it is important to have this voice of how the devel -
oping world and the developed world can ensure close 
collaboration to achieve shared prosperity, to achieve 
the end of energy poverty, to achieve net zero and 
climate targets, and essentially stimulate socio-  
economic growth.
Kristen Panerali: The economics of clean power make 
sense. Plus, as clean power and electrification are 
expanded, it can be done in a way that creates a more 
just and inclusive system.
“A just transition is ensuring  
no one is left behind.”  
Nadja Haakansson, Managing Director of Africa, Siemens Energy
“The economics of clean power  
make sense.”  
Kristen Paner ali, Head of Energy, Material and Infrastructure, World Economic ForumThe company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 60Human rights
Identification of material human rights topics
We identified material human rights topics based on an internal materiality 
analysis in 2021. The topics have been identified as material from the follow -
ing perspectives: “supply chain”, “workplace” and “customer projects” – in 
summary, reflecting our value chain. Where relevant in daily business, iden-
tified risks related to the material topics will be further analyzed and poten-
tial weaknesses mitigated with respective actions to preserve human rights.• Adherence to international conventions and principles
• Human rights anchored in Business Conduct Guidelines and Code of 
Conduct
• Human rights due diligence mitigates risks along value chain 
As a globally operating company, we are aware of the impact our business 
has on people around the world, especially from our large-scale energy 
projects. We are dedicated to responsible business conduct and are com-
mitted to ensuring respect for human rights within our spheres of influ-
ence. Identifying and managing our human rights impacts and mitigating 
risks along our entire value chain is therefore imperative.
Our actions go beyond compliance with applicable laws and regulations; 
they include our commitment to:
• International Bill of Human Rights , consisting of:
 ›Universal Declaration of Human Rights
 ›International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and
 ›International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
• European Convention on Human Rights 
• ILO (International Labour Organization) Tripartite Declaration of 
Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (in 
particular on the following topics: elimination of child labor, abolition of 
forced labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association and 
the right to collective bargaining, and fundamental freedoms) 
• UN Sustainable Development Goals  specifically SDG 8 “Decent Work and 
Economic Growth”, which we have defined as one of our priority SDGs 
• United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) 
• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
• United Nations Global Compact Principles , to which we are a signatory 
(UNGC)Upholding human rights in our own operations and business relationships  
is a fundamental responsibility for us as a global company.
Overview of material human rights topics
Impact on 
communities Security forces 
and human 
rightsHuman rights 
abuses, 
corporate 
complicityOccupational 
health and 
safetyLand, property 
and housing 
rightsFair working 
conditions Freedom of 
association 
and collective 
bargainingDiscrimination 
in the workplaceIndigenous 
peoples’ rights Forced labor 
and child laborAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 61Anchoring our commitment
Our commitment to respecting human rights is written into Siemens Energy’s 
BCG, with special emphasis on our company values: caring, agile, respectful 
and accountable. The BCG are binding for all executives and employees 
worldwide. All employees must agree to them and are given mandatory web-
based training sessions on the guidelines (see 	Compliance training pro-
gram ).
Due to its legal independence, SGRE has implemented its own BCG, which, in 
line with the group-wide approach and underpinned by a human rights policy, 
aim to define respect for human rights as an integral part of corporate respon-
sibility. To enforce this commitment, employees are trained in the require-
ments of the BCG, and the sales team must use evaluation and approval pro-
cesses that take human rights into account. SGRE carries out compliance risk assessments (CRAs), complemented by ongoing monitoring and reporting by 
SGRE’s Chief Compliance Officer. For further information please refer to 
	SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2022, D2. Human Rights .
In fiscal year 2022, GP further raised awareness of human rights in its busi-
ness with a training video on the topic. Following a gap-analysis regarding 
the requirements of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act, our Exec-
utive Board as well as the Sustainability Council were briefed on the next 
steps regarding the implementation of the law.
We maintain regular exchange with networks such as econsense, a  
German sustainability network of internationally operating companies, 
particularly with a view to the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act.
Respect for human rights in employee relations
We are committed to human rights in our employee relations. For more 
information, see chapter 	Working at Siemens Energy – Thriving environ-
ment through inclusion and diversity , and for safe and healthy working con-
ditions, see chapter 	Occupational health and safety .
Respect for human rights in the supply chain and in business partner 
relations
Our business partners are required to comply with the Siemens Energy CoC 
for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries, which is based on the princi-
ples of the UNGC and the ILO but contains more far-reaching requirements. 
The CoC particularly emphasizes respect for the basic human rights of 
employees, including fair remuneration, freedom of association, health 
and safety standards and prohibition of discrimination, forced labor and 
child labor.
To support our suppliers, we continue to offer training on sustainability in 
the supply chain. According to our implemented sustainability risk management system, we 
systematically identify potential human rights risks in our supply chain and 
conduct supplier assessments. For more information, see chapter 	Sus-
tainable supply chain management.
Human rights due diligence in customer projects
We have a dedicated team that conducts human rights due diligence on 
customer projects. This is mandatory in the sales phase for projects that 
meet defined risk criteria, and the process conforms with the UNGPs. Here 
we rely on external ESG databases focusing on country-, customer- and 
project-related risks. The results of the due diligence guide the project’s 
decision-making process. We are continuously striving to improve our due 
diligence process. In 2022 we analyzed the effectiveness of the criteria that 
trigger a mandatory human rights project due diligence. We thereby aim 
to capture projects with relevant risks for our business.
Transparency and human rights-related query channels
We are aware that some of our business activities take place in difficult 
business environments and are a controversial topic of discussion among 
our stakeholders. We regularly report on controversial topics via ratings and 
rankings, such as specific human rights aspects in critical projects.
Any violations of human rights associated with our areas of influence can 
be reported via our grievance mechanisms, including communication chan-
nels such as our “Speak Up” reporting system and ombudsperson. Please 
see the chapter 	Compliance and integrity  for more information. Siemens 
Energy is not aware of any confirmed human rights-related violations sub-
mitted via these channels in the reporting period.Dimensions of human rights
Human rights in the 
supply chain and 
in business partner 
relationsHuman rights in 
employee relations
Human rights in 
customer projectsAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 62Compliance and integrity
The compliance system is essential for a 
company-wide zero-tolerance approach 
Our zero-tolerance approach requires a holistic compliance system of mea-
sures to ensure that business is always carried out in full accordance with 
the law as well as our internal rules. The Siemens Energy-wide compliance 
approach is based on the three levels of action “prevent, detect, respond”, 
centering around management’s responsibility and comprising focus areas • Our motto: 100% Energy, 100% Compliance
• Strong ethical culture supported by awareness activities and  
ongoing communication
• Zero-tolerance approach for compliance violations 
As we operate globally with customers from a wide range of industries in 
the private and public sectors, we are confronted with complex regulatory 
requirements coupled with increasing stakeholder expectations regarding 
integrity and risk management. In this context, we are committed to a 
strong culture of ethics and compliance. We pursue a zero-tolerance 
approach toward corruption, violations of the principles of fair competition 
and other breaches of the law. When such cases do occur, we take  
immediate action. 
We support international organizations that strengthen responsible busi-
ness practices, including the United Nations Convention against Corrup-
tion and the Anti-Bribery Convention of the OECD. Moreover, we con-  
tribute to the achievement of SDG 16 “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions”, 
which calls on companies to reduce bribery and corruption in all forms. 
This in turn promotes fair competition – which benefits innovation-driven 
companies like Siemens Energy. Anti-corruption measures combined with 
strong compliance systems protect companies as well as their employees 
and shareholders from the risk of possible misconduct. Countries also ben-
efit from stopping corruption, as corruption impedes economic growth 
and hampers sustainable societal development. For Siemens Energy, compliance means more than adhering to laws and 
the internal regulations described in our BCG. Compliance is the basis for 
all our decisions and activities. Our premise is: 100% Energy, 100% Compli-
ance. This applies worldwide and at all levels of the organization. Conse-
quently, compliance is a top management priority. The Legal and Compli-
ance department reports directly to our CEO, and our Group Compliance 
Officer reports regularly on GP and SGRE compliance matters to the Execu-
tive and Supervisory Boards.Compliance is a company-wide effort, and it starts at the top. We strive to ensure 
all our actions are aligned with our values, at every level of the organization.
Anti- 
corruption
Anti-money 
launderingAnti- 
trust
Collective 
actionData  
privacy
Export  
controlHuman  
rightsCompliance focus areasAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 63such as anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, antitrust, collective-action 
(GP only), data privacy, export control and human rights, which are also 
reflected in the BCG. For more information, see chapter 	Human rights .
SGRE has implemented its own compliance system and BCG that are in line 
with GP. For further information please refer to the 	SGRE Consolidated 
Non-Financial Statement 2022, D1. Ethics, Integrity and Anti-Corruption .
Preventive measures include the Siemens Energy training program, whis-
tleblower and reporting channels such as our “Speak Up” reporting system 
at GP, the GP ombudsperson, the “Integrity Hotline” at SGRE, our compli-
ance risk management system and the respective BCG.The BCG for GP and SGRE set out our internal regulations. They express the 
values, compliance-related responsibilities and behavioral framework for 
all managers, employees and Executive Board members worldwide.
Internal investigations, including regular and ad-hoc audits, are essential 
for detecting and clarifying misconduct. Misconduct is met with a clear 
response and immediate consequences.
We continuously update our compliance system to mitigate challenges and 
risks arising from changing market conditions and our business activities. 
Holistic implementation of the compliance system
Our compliance system combines strong central governance with the work 
of qualified compliance officers, who aim to ensure its worldwide imple-
mentation.
The entire management team is required to commit to compliance to 
ensure that all business decisions and activities conform to the relevant 
legal requirements and follow our own values and company policies.
We expect the same commitment from all our employees and conduct reg-
ular surveys on integrity to obtain feedback from them. For example, the 
global employee engagement survey that we conducted this year at GP 
includes compliance and integrity topics. Based on the feedback we 
received, we created a centralized legal and compliance team development 
approach. In online workshops, for example, employees as well as external 
partners can hereby present topics from all areas relevant for the function.Compliance training program
Our global compliance training program requires all managers and employ -
ees in positions with a specific risk profile to complete compliance train-
ing. The compliance officers of each company unit identify which manag-
ers and employees are required to participate and ensure they attend.
We aim to maintain ongoing compliance awareness. In this reporting 
period, this included ad hoc training in the field of export control to ensure 
the correct handling of sanctions (especially on Russia) and specific aware-
ness activities. Dedicated compliance and integrity topics are communi-
cated group-wide through continuous messaging on company social 
media (e.g., Yammer) and through integrity dialogues, which provide a 
forum for managers to discuss current compliance issues with their teams.
Continuous improvementPreventRespond
DetectManagement 
responsibilityOur compliance system:  
Management responsibility is the focusMiddle East Legal Awards –  
Compliance Innovator of the Year
Siemens Energy took the award for Compliance Innovator of the Year at the 
2022 Middle East Legal Awards. Held in Dubai in May, the award honored 
Siemens Energy’s work in conducting anti-corruption training with officials 
from the Ministry of Electricity in Iraq in June 2021 (see Siemens Energy 
Sustainability Report 2021). The training was part of Siemens Energy’s 
Roadmap for the Electrification of the New Iraq, a series of projects 
launched to revamp the country’s ailing electricity sector and provide Iraqis 
with the reliable and efficient energy necessary for economic growth.
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 64Compliance risk management
We believe reliable compliance risk analysis is key to the success of our 
business. By identifying risks early, we can make informed decisions on 
how best to avoid or mitigate them. We design and integrate bottom-up 
and top-down processes and tools to identify potential risk scenarios and 
take rapid and consistent action.
In this context, the annual CRA was conducted for GP in fiscal year 2022. At 
SGRE, the regular CRA is processed biennially and was also conducted in 
fiscal year 2022. Identified risks were addressed through local and central 
measures and followed up on in dedicated workshops. CRAs are an integral 
part of the quarterly updated company-wide ERM that creates further 
transparency throughout the risk environment.
Collaboration with business partners
Under certain circumstances, Siemens Energy can be held legally responsi-
ble for the actions of its business partners. We counter this risk by taking a 
comprehensive approach to selecting our partners, by contractually oblig-
ing them to adhere to our CoC and by monitoring ongoing collaborations. 
The CoC is based on the Ten Principles of the UNGC and is mandatory for 
all Siemens Energy business partners. It covers legal compliance in general 
as well as our anti-corruption policies, including provisions against 
anti-competitive practices and conflicts of interest. Our process covers the 
entire life cycle of the business partnership. Our compulsory company-  
wide Business Partner Compliance Tool supports the implementation of 
the process and ensures the documentation of relevant information and 
activities. We are continuously enhancing our business partner due dili-
gence process. We do this by systematically harnessing the potential of big 
data, using dashboards and analytics to improve risk management.Channels for reporting misconduct
We offer all employees and external third parties confidential channels for 
reporting potential violations. In doing so, they help identify and eliminate 
misconduct, while protecting themselves and the company against any 
damage that may result. Such channels include:
• Managers
• Group Compliance Officer
• Compliance department and Legal department
• Human Resources department
• Whistleblower hotlines: “Speak Up” at GP, “Integrity Hotline” at SGRE
• Ombudsperson
• Employee representatives
Information on possible violations can be given confidentially and anony -
mously. We do not tolerate retaliation against complainants or whistleblow -
ers and will treat any cases thereof as a compliance violation. We apply the 
same principles to reports of wrongdoing brought forward by third parties.
Our Compliance department investigates relevant reports based on pre-  
assessments and takes appropriate actions as per formal company-wide 
processes.
Data privacy
The protection of personal data plays an important role in our digitized 
world. We aim to handle it carefully and responsibly, respecting everyone’s 
privacy. Personal data is processed confidentially and only for legitimate, 
predetermined purposes.September 30
Compliance training¹ 2022 2021
Training on Business Conduct Guidelines
Employees targeted that completed the module (no.) 67,248 60,519
Share of employees that completed the module (%) 94 83
Training on antitrust²
Employees targeted that completed the module (no.) 44,951 43,304
Share of employees that completed the module (%) 95 95
Training on export control
Employees targeted that completed the module (no.) 62,934 60,154
Share of employees that completed the module (%) 93 85
Training on data privacy³
Employees targeted that completed the module (no.) 64,637 –
Share of employees that completed the module (%) 86 –
1  GP as well as SGRE address the same overarching topics but may vary in detailed content. Figures contain 
employees that were trained in the respective modules, incl. prior years.
2  Without SGRE. 
3 Prior year figures are not reported.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 65We are not aware of any substantiated complaints made in this reporting 
period relating to the protection of customer data.
Key compliance indicators
We respond to all allegations of possible violations of external and internal 
rules as per applicable formal company-wide processes and take appropri-
ate disciplinary action in the event of proven violations. Once we complete 
a compliance investigation and identify compliance violations, our internal 
processes provide guidance to ensure we take appropriate action with the 
employees concerned. We evaluate and define consequences through dis-
ciplinary processes at central or local level and systematically monitor 
implementation.
The evidence demonstrates that our compliance system is well-designed 
and implemented effectively. Based on the nature of our businesses, the 
environments in which we work and the wide range of different geograph-
ical regions, we do not regard the number of incidents as unusual. With respect to disciplinary sanctions, the year-over-year increase in overall 
number is mainly due to cases in SGRE India.
Siemens Energy is not aware that it has been convicted of any corruption, 
bribery or antitrust violations during fiscal year 2022.
Achievements 
Siemens Energy reached a number of milestones in fiscal year 2022. These 
included:
• Developing the compliance system further by adapting the due dili-
gence processes
• Enhancing compliance processes by further modernizing the GP compli-
ance tool landscape
• Implementing the Compliance Projects Marketplace at GP to gain new 
ideas and encourage internal cooperation
• Continuing to develop the compliance training program and improving 
the onboarding process for new legal and compliance employees at GP
• Celebrating an integrity week across Siemens Energy to raise compli-
ance and integrity awareness at GP, and
• Conducting extensive on-site training at SGRE India to raise awareness 
on compliance and integrity.
In fiscal year 2023, GP will go live with the Governance, Risk and Compliance 
Tool that we initiated in 2022. GP will continue to explore the possibilities of 
digitalization for further efficiency and to strengthen the compliance moni-
toring system. The cross-functional implementation of the German Supply 
Chain Due Diligence Act will also be a major task of fiscal year 2023 for GP as 
well as for SGRE.
In general, we will continue to tailor our compliance system to the individ-
ual risks and opportunities of our business and the organizational struc-
ture of Siemens Energy.
¹  Documentation of the purpose, risk and security safeguards for processing activities within the group.Policies and 
guidelines
Response to data 
privacy incidentsKeeping records 
of data process-
ing activities¹
Training and 
awareness 
measures for 
employeesRespecting data 
subject rights
Transfer  
safeguards within 
the Siemens 
Energy group of 
companiesData privacy management systemTo comply with data protection laws, including the General Data Protection 
Regulation, we have implemented the Siemens Energy data privacy manage-
ment system, which aims to ensure the protection of our customers’, busi-
ness partners’ and employees’ personal data. Although we predominantly 
operate in a B2B environment where our customers are not end consumers, 
we nevertheless process business-related personal data, such as customers’ 
and partners’ employee data, (e.g., business contact information).
Fiscal year
Compliance indicators 2022 2021
Compliance cases reported 118 103
Disciplinary sanctions1188 49
 thereof warnings 55 29
 thereof dismissals 110 18
 thereof other223 2
1  Numbers for disciplinary sanctions in a fiscal year do not necessarily correspond to cases reported during that 
period: sanctions are frequently not implemented in the same year in which the case was reported or the 
investigation – which follows a due process – was completed. In addition, a single case may result in multiple 
sanctions, or none at all.
2  Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation components, transfer and suspension, but not the revoca-
tion of signatory rights.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 66Working at Siemens Energy
• We strive to be the employer of choice in the energy industry and to 
develop a future-ready workforce
• We focus on creating diverse, inclusive and welcoming workplaces 
where people want to work 
• We are investing in our strategic People Agenda, which is aligned 
with our company strategy, values and behaviors
Through our human resources (HR) activities, Siemens Energy contributes 
directly to SDG 4 “Quality Education”, SDG 5 “Gender Equality”, SDG 8 
“Decent Work and Economic Growth”, and SDG 10 “Reduced Inequalities”. 
To enable our contribution to the SDGs and prepare the company for the 
future, GP has implemented the People Agenda. The People Agenda, 
including its programs and strategic initiatives, is designed around three 
main building blocks: Thriving environment, Game-changing leaders, and 
Vibrant workforce. 
To underline that people are a top management priority for Siemens 
Energy, the HR department is led directly by the CEO. The operational 
responsibility for topics such as talent management or compensation and 
benefits lies with the Centers of Competence, which regularly report to the 
Executive Board. SGRE’s purpose of empowering people to lead the future and its Culture of 
Trust program are essential to its business model. They are core to the busi-
ness strategy, organization, hiring and decision-making process, daily opera-
tions and how the company and its employees grow. The SGRE people man-
agement model is committed to professional excellence and work-life quality 
and is structured around three main pillars: Leadership Excellence, Diversity 
and Inclusion, and Global Footprint. For further information please refer to 
	SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2022, B1. Working at Siemens 
Gamesa .
Thriving environment
We are striving for an environment for people to be self-directed, to have 
responsibility and to find meaning in their work. We guide this by setting 
standards through our Inclusion & Diversity Framework, applying new 
ways of working and establishing cross-organizational networks. 
Fostering Inclusion & Diversity (I&D)
We want everyone to bring their whole self to work and reach their full 
potential. Our workplace environment is open to everybody regardless of 
their ethnic origin, religion, world view, age, disability, gender, sexual ori-
entation, gender identity and gender expression. We strive to offer our 
employees equal treatment in a non-discriminatory work setting. To empha-
size the relevance of I&D for Siemens Energy, our Chief Financial Officer, 
Maria Ferraro, is also Chief Inclusion & Diversity Officer.With our People and Culture strategy as a foundation, we aim to be the differentiator in 
the market for our customers, investors, suppliers, partners, employees and society.
 Unleash the Human 
EnergyPeople analyticsSE VoicesTransformation 
platforms & 
networkInclusion & diversityFuture work
Strategic 
workforce 
planningSuccession 
managementLeadership 
diagnostics & 
coachingTransformation 
journeyLeadership 
programsLeadership 
Essentials
RecognitionCompensation 
& benefitsPerformance 
managementDevelopment 
landscapeTalent acquisition
Vibrant workforce
Game-changing leaders
Thriving environmentOur People AgendaAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 67Our holistic I&D Framework in GP supports our ambition and contributes to 
the promotion of I&D. At GP, among others, the following measures were 
taken in fiscal year 2022, in addition to the measures established in past 
years, such as mandatory diverse interview panels to reduce bias in the 
hiring process:
• The I&D Coalition of Allies at GP was established. It is chaired by the  
Chief Inclusion & Diversity Officer and meets on a quarterly basis to 
develop action plans.
• We launched a pilot Female Leadership@Scale program to accelerate 
the development of future female leaders (this is in addition to our  
Catalysta female development program).
• Diversity KPIs are shown and measured across our key succession pipe-
lines in a succession dashboard.
• Facility upgrades of 40 offices initiated (to be completed by the end of 
the calender year 2022) to provide a barrier-free workplace for employ -
ees and visitors.
• In cooperation with our partner, Catalyst, one pilot MARC (Men Advo-
cating Real Change) session was completed for our executive team in 
Europe to encourage male leaders to become better allies for women  
in the workplace.
• An ombudsperson was appointed to investigate complaints made by 
employees who feel they have been mistreated or experienced  
discrimination.SGRE’s Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) strategy is set over a two-year period 
and cascaded across the business. Strategic objectives are backed by spe-
cific action plans. Its efforts have been recognized by the Bloomberg Gen-
der Equality Index for the third year in a row. Over the last year, progress 
was made in a number of areas: 
• The D&I Governance Board, chaired by the Global Head of D&I, was 
founded, and regional D&I councils were established.
• A global program was initiated on preventing workplace harassment and 
discrimination that includes a formal complaint process and company-  
wide training.
• New flexible working models (including working from home part of the 
week) and improved digital disconnection guidelines were established.
• An inclusive leadership training was delivered for 55% of senior manag-
ers and a high rate of participation in D&I courses in LinkedIn Learning 
achieved.
• Equal opportunities plan implemented to increase the participation of 
women and other underrepresented groups.
• Transparency was created on the gender pay gap by professional  
category and relevant locations.
For further information please refer to 	SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement 2022, B3. Diversity and Equal Opportunity .
Strategic  
intentOur Inclusion & Diversity approach
01
Equal opportunity
We are committed to fair and transparent 
practices for the attraction, promotion,  
development and retention of diverse people 
with different skills, abilities and ideas.02
Belonging
We make our mix work by creating an 
inclusive culture where people feel 
respected, engaged, able to speak up 
and be themselves.03
Society & partnerships
We work together, internally and 
externally, with customers and 
partners to support us in becoming 
more diverse and inclusive.Three focused strategy drivers serve as the foundation for a global and local program of actionAllyship at Siemens Energy 
Many people in society still experience discrimination due to 
their ethnic origin, gender, religion, disability, age, sexual orien-
tation, gender identity and/or gender expression – and it is 
often in the workplace. At GP, we are determined for this 
change. To support employees at GP to feel safe to speak up 
honestly when mistreated, we have launched the Allyship cam-
paign. It is a result of discussions from the diversity networks 
where some members came forward with stories of disrespect 
or racism. The campaign aims to change the internal culture 
and transform Siemens Energy into a truly inclusive and 
diverse company. It seeks to encourage kindness, respect, 
valuing differences and mutual support.Speaking up against discrimination in the workplace
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 68GP aims to reach a share of 25% women in top leadership positions by Sep-
tember 30, 2025, and a share of 30% women in top leadership positions by 
September 30, 2030. In fiscal year 2022, the share of women in top leader -
ship positions at GP increased to 22% (fiscal year 2021: 21%). A new organi-
zational structure was implemented at the beginning of fiscal year 2023. A 
systematic placement process was applied across all management levels at 
GP, which leads to an increase in women in top leadership positions.
SGRE aims to reach a share of 25% women in headcount and in leadership 
positions by September 30, 2025, and a share of 30% women in headcount 
and leadership positions by September 30, 2030. In fiscal year 2022, the share 
of women in leadership positions at SGRE was 14% (fiscal year 2021: 13%).
Alongside increasing the share of women in senior leadership, ensuring 
equal pay for equal work is highly important for Siemens Energy. Our goal 
is to comply with all local regulations for measuring and reporting on 
equal pay.
In fiscal year 2022, we began using a standardized methodology to identify 
potential gender differences in pay among employees across GP (SGRE 
reports gender pay differences separately), taking into consideration fac-
tors such as country, seniority and job family. This adjusted pay gap was 
about 5% (as of September 2022).
On September 30, 2022, Siemens Energy employed about 1,400 people 
with a disability in Germany (September 30, 2021 about 1,400).Transformation: Change management
To support the implementation of our new operating model (see chapter 
	Siemens Energy at a glance ), we have introduced a holistic change man-
agement approach, interconnecting changes on the business side and the 
related impacts on people. This involves conducting multi-day workshops 
where leaders and managers collaborate to develop plans for supporting 
their people through that change. The individual plans cover aspects such 
as sponsorship, two-way communication, training and skilling and equip-
ping managers with tools and resources to help lead change. We also offer 
e-learnings in multiple languages for all employees to help them navigate 
their personal change journeys.Global employee engagement survey 
At GP, our bi-annual global employee engagement survey gives all employ -
ees worldwide the opportunity to share how they perceive our company, 
culture, leadership, team collaboration and work environment.
In fiscal year 2022, the GP employee engagement survey was conducted 
with a response rate of 69% (fiscal year 2021: 70%), and more than 55,000 
comments were provided. The majority of survey scores increased or 
remained stable on a global, company-wide level compared to last year’s 
survey. Indicatively, 90% of employees (fiscal year 2021: 89%) stated they 
feel trusted by their manager, and 85% (fiscal year 2021: 85%) stated they 
believe our business contributes to cleaner business in society. With our 
team-led approach “Team Up For Action”, teams use their results as conver -
sation starters for open and honest discussions about the issues close to 
them. As a result, 74% said they discussed results and planned actions (a 
rise of 5% over the previous survey). We still see room for improvement 
around the topic of “Active Engagement”, which measures the extent to 
which employees feel their team took actions to create positive changes 
after the last survey. This reporting year it reached a score of 55% (fiscal 
year 2021: 51%).
SGRE periodically carries out employee engagement surveys. In fiscal year 
2022, the employee engagement survey was conducted with a response 
rate of 81% (79% in fiscal year 2021). The results reveal widespread satisfac-
tion with the company’s diversity culture (79% favorable score), along with 
an improved perception of the supervisor (81% favorable score) and sustain-
able engagement (78% favorable score). For further information please refer 
to 	SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2022, B.1.5 Employee Survey.Fiscal year
Equal pay¹ 2022
Adjusted pay gap (%) 5.16
Unadjusted pay gap (%) 8.22
1  Figures relating to GP. Prior year figures are not reported. 
An unadjusted pay gap refers to the difference between the earnings of men vs. women (mean male vs. female 
FTE TDC in euros) that could arise from differences in a number of factors: job families, age or seniority as well 
as gender. An adjusted pay gap refers to the part of this difference between the earnings of men vs. women 
that is attributable solely to gender. 
The pay gap KPI is expressed as the difference between the mean male pay vs. the mean female pay, divided by 
the mean male pay.  
A positive pay gap KPI is one in favor of men, a negative in favor of women.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 69Game-changing leaders 
Leaders need to provide clarity and direction in uncertain conditions. Their 
task is to bring new strategies, new mindsets and business transformation 
to life, triggered by outside market changes and role modeling our Leader -
ship Essentials. 
Our six Leadership Essentials (see graphic below) help GP leaders grow, 
perform and deliver our strategic goals. They define the qualities we 
expect of our leaders across all leadership levels and provide the language 
we use to hold one another accountable for shaping our culture.Leadership development
GP runs four leadership pipeline and development programs, targeting 
leaders at different stages of their career. All programs are designed 
around our values, behaviors and Leadership Essentials. They are the foun-
dation to build a strong and diverse leadership pipeline. 
In addition, we have created a community network for learning and ongo-
ing growth that goes beyond the programs for alumni of the leadership 
pipeline programs.
SGRE has developed a leadership ecosystem to cover the needs of its lead-
ership community. It includes a series of four leadership development pro-grams, from early career leaders all the way up to highest management. 
Our global leadership programs are developed together with a world-  
leading business school and complemented by our internal offer. We aim 
to reach all management levels to build critical leadership capabilities and 
a strong pipeline of future leaders. See 	SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement 2022, B1. Working at Siemens Gamesa .
Succession 
With our succession risk management, GP strives to ensure business conti-
nuity and robust internal pipelines for key roles.
The Executive Board reviews the various pipelines on a quarterly basis. The 
process is supported by a dashboard that provides transparency on the 
diversity of the pipelines, the percentage of candidates from pipelining 
programs and succession ratios. In addition, we run the annual Board Men-
toring Program as well as quarterly Succession Touchpoints for early tal-
ents with the Executive Board.
At SGRE, HR is responsible for identifying key roles and having a succession 
plan in place. All managers¹ are responsible for developing successors 
within their team using individual development plans to document devel-
opment actions.Leadership Essentials
Leaders are 
curious learners1
Leaders grow  
our people4
Leaders create  
the future2
Leaders ignite 
change5
Leaders deliver  
as one 3
Leaders stand 
for safety and 
integrity6
¹  The term manager refers to all heads as well as anyone who leads a team while being responsible for 
their development and growth.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 70Vibrant workforce
Our ambition is to become the employer of choice in the energy industry. 
We are doing this by investing in strategic workforce planning, employer 
branding, learning and development and a recognition and performance 
management system. All elements aim to contribute to the implementa-
tion of our strategy and to anchor our values and behaviors. 
Strategic Workforce Planning (SWP)
SWP addresses structural workforce changes at an organizational level and 
strives to ensure critical roles and future-relevant skills are distributed appro-
priately across all levels and locations. We strive to close skill gaps and build 
a robust workforce by specifically focusing on:
• Build: Upskilling and reskilling our existing workforce in strategic 
growth fields
• Buy: Strategic hiring from the external market
• Borrow: Focused contracting to balance peaks  
• Bind: Retaining mission-critical skills
This fiscal year, we developed and soft-launched the 4-step SWP process, 
including a toolbox to support SWP activities in the businesses. We have run 
three pilots to test the approach. We aim to run SWP continuously from fis-
cal year 2023, supported by data-driven insights and workforce simulation.
Performance
The performance management processes at GP and SGRE are designed to 
accelerate individual development and create high-performing teams. 
They are open to all employees and are built around constant dialogue and 
feedback, individual goals, responsibilities, and regular check-ins through-
out the year. 
EnergySkills4Tomorrow and My Growth
The strategic upskilling framework at GP – EnergySkills4Tomorrow (ES4T) 
– was co-created throughout Siemens Energy, including #futurefit, and was launched in 2022. It consists of personal, digital, technical and func-
tional skills that build a foundation and common language for SWP, learn-
ing offerings or competency management. 
ES4T is anchored in My Growth, which is a portal offering self-insight tools 
such as multi-source feedback, self-driven coaching and personality ques-
tions to allow reflection on individual strengths and development areas.
My Performance, ES4T and My Growth offer a foundation for development 
conversations between employees and managers to define development goals 
and measures to support Siemens Energy strategy and transformation.
Training and education
The GP learning landscape provides formal training in multiple languages 
to all GP employees with access to a computer. The training focuses on two 
areas: training on our products, solutions and technologies, and training 
to develop and expand personal, professional and digital skills.In fiscal year 2022, we enhanced the platform to include strategic topics 
and user experience to support our employees on their individual learning 
and development journeys. With curated learning landscapes, we provide 
orientation on topics such as leadership, sales, IT, digitalization and 
finance. Specific training programs were established in the areas of project 
management, leadership and onboarding.
Our GP employees spent an average of 6.8 hours on formal learning activi-
ties. To measure our employees' learning activities on separate, external 
platforms, we built a web interface where employees can manually record 
these activities. This application was made available in September 2022.
The learning policy at SGRE was released in fiscal year 2022 and is aligned 
with SGRE values. It covers product learning, which embraces SGRE-  
specific learning on process, tools, and products to ensure operational 
excellence, and standard learning, which covers all non-SGRE specific 
learning. 
For standard learning, SGRE implemented LinkedIn Learning in fiscal year 
2022. This gives SGRE the ability to provide equal learning opportunities for 
all employees, especially those not based at a large SGRE location. It gives 
the employees unlimited options for continuous learning and development. 
With its vocational training programs in Germany, Siemens Energy aims to 
attract school graduates. As of September 30, 2022, there were 1,865 (Sep-
tember 30, 2021: 2,100) trainees and students enrolled in work-study pro-
grams: 897 (September 30, 2021: 1,062) internals and 968 (September 30, 
2021: 1,038) externals from other companies. In fall 2022, a total of 247 
(fiscal year 2021: 241) graduates began an internal apprenticeship or a 
work-study program, and there were 275 (fiscal year 2021: 280) external 
trainees. In addition to the apprenticeships in Germany, we also offer 
vocational training in several other countries.Training Fiscal year
2022 2021
Spend on further education (€ million) 69 58
Spend on further education per employee (€) 753 632
Total number of training hours 943,655 786,721
On-site 699,393 592,033
Web-based 244,263 194,087
Total average training hours per employee 10.3 8.6
On-site 7.7 6.5
Web-based 2.7 2.1Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 71Rewarding our workforce 
As we aim for fair working conditions, industry wage agreements – which 
Siemens Energy adheres to – supersede the national minimum wage in 
many countries, especially in Western Europe. Hiring agency workers is 
common, and in many cases, contracts are governed by similar or compa-
rable wage policies to those enjoyed by company employees.
Siemens Energy generally offers employees benefits based on local market 
practice. These can include additional time off, health benefits, family sup- 
port, insurance subsidies and other perquisites.
Both GP and SGRE offer employees annual financial incentives based on 
individual performance as well as share purchase plans. Siemens Energy's 
senior leadership is additionally awarded stock entitlements partly tied to 
our long-term performance, including sustainability targets.
Recognition and celebrating success
We know that our employees are our greatest asset. That is why apprecia-
tion of our employees and a culture of recognition are important to us.
Our Share Thanks And Recognition (STAR) online platform gives an equal 
voice to our employees. They can show appreciation to anyone in the orga-
nization through personalized messages, e-cards or awarding points. The 
platform was rolled out in August 2021, and as of today can be used by 
more than 60,000 employees in 70 countries worldwide.
Employee representation
At Siemens Energy, we highly value employee representation and partici-
pation in accordance with national laws. At the European level, employee 
representation takes place in the Siemens Energy European Works Council 
based on the German Act on European Works Councils and the Siemens 
Energy European Works Council Agreement. The Agreement covers all 
employees of Siemens Energy and its consolidated subsidiaries within the 
European Economic Area plus the UK.
On a national level, various forms of employee representation exist based 
on national regulations. In Germany, trade union representation is through 
the Industrial Union of Metalworkers, and in many other countries by domestic trade unions. In addition, inhouse employee representation is 
based on national regulations. In German locations, employee representa-
tion is based on the German Works Constitution Act and is realized through 
various employee representation bodies, in particular central works coun-
cils, combined works councils and local works councils, which are elected 
by the employees. In many other countries, it is based on domestic law. 
The Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy also contains employee repre-
sentatives as full board members, who are – based on national law – either 
delegated by employees or appointed by the trade union.
Training and education in Egypt
The Siemens Energy Egyptian-German Technical Academy is 
committed to providing vocational skills in Egypt. Since its launch 
in 2020, the academy has trained over 2,500 technical students, 
engineering students, industry technicians, and engineers.
The academy’s ongoing Training for Employment program aims to 
increase the youth employability rate and train technicians for the 
local market. In 2022, 130 students have graduated after passing 
12 weeks of training in mechanics, electrics and welding and have 
been hired by local companies. 
In the Technical Master Trainer program in cooperation with IHK 
Ostbrandenburg, the academy has trained and certified 16 tech-
nical master trainers. The aim of the certificate course is to 
empower suitable candidates to generate and deliver market-  
relevant courses in line with Siemens Energy and IHK require-
ments within the Egyptian training ecosystem.Powering the future: vocational skills for students, engineers and technicians
Employee experience
The Compensation Insights platform COIN is a Siemens 
Energy-developed tool that enables a fair and equal com-
pensation process. It provides data-driven recommenda-
tions that empower Siemens Energy managers across the 
globe to manage their compensation matters autono-
mously. With the data generated, we also strive to ana-
lyze and gain further insight into topics such as gender 
pay gap, differentiation and diversity. The platform was 
most recently recognized with the German iF Design 
Award 2022 in the category User Experience (UX).
Managing equality: tool for fair and equal compensation 
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 72Employee structure
As of September 30, 2022, Siemens Energy had about 92,000 (September 
30, 2021: 91,000) employees worldwide³, 28,000 (September 30, 2021: 
26,000) of whom worked for SGRE. The average number of employees 
during the fiscal year stood year stood at about 91,000 (fiscal year 2021: 
92,000).
Women accounted for 19.8% (September 30, 2021: 19.3%) of the workforce 
and 22.9% (fiscal year 2021: 19.4%) of all new hires. We expect 10.2% of 
employees to retire within the next 5 years⁴ (fiscal year 2021: 10.2%). The 
share of employees with permanent working contracts is 95.4% (September 
30, 2021: 95.1%). The worldwide average working week at GP was 39 hours 
with no changes in comparison to 2021. The average employee age was 42.7 
(fiscal year 2021: 42.8). At Siemens Energy, about 75% of employees (fiscal 
year 2021: about 74%) are covered by collective bargaining agreements 
worldwide.
As part of our family-friendly corporate policy, GP employees in Germany, 
for example, are offered a range of opportunities to tailor their working 
times and locations to their needs, such as part-time and remote working, 
and are given the flexibility to care for children or sick relatives. In numerous 
countries, we offer employees additional support for their families and 
children, for example through school vouchers, allowances or additional 
time off. About 2,900 (September 30, 2021: about 3,000) employees, or 
3.2%, worked part-time and around 2,100 (September 30, 2021: about 
1,500⁵) were on leave of absence.
3 All figures in this section refer to the headcount. 
4 Employees with an age >57.
5 Without SGRE.Age and regional structure
<35 35-44 45-54 >54
Figure for previous year in brackets.
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.Europe, C.I.S1, Africa, Middle East 23% 33% 27% 18%
Americas 24% 31% 24% 21%
Asia/Australia 39% 41% 16% 4%
Total 25% (25%) 34% (34%) 25% (25%) 16% (17%)September 30
Number of employees
Europe, C.I.S1,  
Africa, Middle EastAmericas20%  (20%)
13%  (12%)67%  (67%)
Asia/Australia92,292
Total
Figure for previous year in brackets.
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.September 30 Fiscal year
Working contracts¹ 2022
Employees with permanent working contract 88,014
Employees with temporary working contract 3,744
thereof female employees 874
thereof male employees 2,870
thereof EMEA 1,682
thereof Americas 110
thereof Asia/Australia 1,952
¹ Prior year figures are not reported.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 73Fiscal year
Employee fluctuation – hirings 2022 2021
Hirings (thousands) 10.9 7.5
thereof women (%) 22.9 19.4
thereof Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East (%) 59.4 55.8
 thereof women Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East (%) 24.1 21.3
thereof Americas (%) 22.5 26.5
 thereof women Americas (%) 20.6 16.2
thereof Asia/Australia (%) 18.2 17.7
 thereof women Asia/Australia (%) 22.0 18.1
thereof age <35 (%) 57.3 –²
thereof age 35–44 (%) 28.0 –²
thereof age 45–54 (%) 11.3 –²
thereof age >54 (%) 3.4 –²
Recruitment rate³ (%) 12.0 8.2
¹ Commonwealth of Independent States.
²  Prior year figures are not reported.
³  The recruitment rate is calculated as the number of new employee hires at Siemens Energy during the fiscal 
year divided by the average headcount.Fiscal year
Employee fluctuation – exits 2022 2021
Exits (thousands) 9.7 9.7
thereof dismissals¹ (%) 12.5 16.8
thereof women (%) 19.6 –²
thereof Europe, C.I.S.³, Africa, Middle East (%) 57.1 51.7
thereof Americas (%) 30.4 29.4
thereof Asia/Australia (%) 12.4 18.9
thereof age <35 (%) 32.6 –²
thereof age 35–44 (%) 28.4 –²
thereof age 45–54 (%) 15.5 –²
thereof age >54 (%) 23.5 –²
Turnover rate⁴ (%) 10.6 10.6
Turnover rate – voluntary (%) 5.3 4.3
Turnover rate – other reasons (%) 5.3 6.3
¹ Without SGRE.
²  Prior year figures are not reported.
³ Commonwealth of Independent States.
⁴  The turnover rate is calculated as the number of voluntary and involuntary (all other) exits at Siemens Energy 
during the fiscal year divided by the average number of employees.September 30
Contractually agreed weekly working hours (average)12022 2021
Europe, C.I.S.2, Africa, Middle East 38 37
Americas 42 42
Asia/Australia 41 41
Total 39 39
¹ Without SGRE.
2 Commonwealth of Independent States.
Working hour programs¹ Fiscal year
(%) 2022
Employees working part-time 3.2
Women working part-time 2.1
Employees on leave of absence 2.3
¹ Prior year figures are not reported.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 74Societal engagement
• Global commitment to support local initiatives and engage our 
employees
• Providing relief and recovery assistance for areas affected by disasters 
• Donations amounted to €3.62 million for projects worldwide in 2022 
Societal engagement means more to us than just charity. We believe it cre-
ates shared value for society and a competitive advantage for business.
Through our engagement, we contribute to several SDGs. Our technology-  
related activities are driving the energy transition and helping to achieve 
SDG 7 “Access to Affordable and Sustainable Energy”. By providing access 
to education, we contribute to SDG 4 “Quality Education”, SDG 5 “Gender 
Equality” and SDG 10 “Reduced Inequalities”. And as our community-  
related activities focus on serving local needs, they relate to several SDGs 
in line with SDG 11 “Sustainable Cities and Communities”.
The Siemens Energy societal engagement approach combines a global 
framework with autonomy for local implementation in the countries in 
which we operate. To focus our activities and increase our impact, we have 
defined three focus areas based on our strategic context, our core compe-
tencies, the global targets for sustainable development and the influence 
various global megatrends (demographics, urbanization, climate change, 
globalization and digitalization) have on our industry and our business.The focus areas are:
• Driving the Energy Transition: Supporting clean energy research and 
sustainable development
• Access to Education: Promoting science, technology, engineering  
and mathematics (STEM) subjects and climate education – especially for 
underrepresented demographics
• Sustaining Communities: Disaster recovery – especially related to  
electricity supply and actively reducing poverty
Across our regions, Managing Directors develop initiatives within these 
three focus areas. This way, we address the specific and unique needs of 
the respective countries. The objective of this approach is to:
• Enhance relationships with customers and partners
• Boost employee engagement
• Generate awareness of our brand
• Support the company’s competitive context
The approach allows for 80% of donations to support the three focus areas, 
10% to be discretionary – supporting causes aligned to customers and 
partners – and 10% to go toward activities in local communities where we 
have operations with a significant employment base.We actively support initiatives that address the specific societal and 
environmental needs of the countries in which we operate and contribute 
to the future viability of these communities.
The Purple Tree project 
International Arbor Day is celebrated worldwide on April 25 
and aims to raise awareness about the importance of for -
ests for people and the economy. In Linz, the Siemens 
Energy transformers factory commemorated the day by 
launching its #PurpleTree initiative. For every LinkedIn post 
by Transformers Linz employees during April 2022 showing 
a picture of the specially designed Purple Tree, the company 
sponsored five tree seedlings for the Kuernberg Forest, a 
recreational area near Linz that is severely affected by cli-
mate change.Employees support the Kuernberg forest in Austria
Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 75To manage its social commitment projects, SGRE launched a digital plat-
form in fiscal year 2021. With the goal to ensure the greatest impact possi-
ble from its social commitment activities, SGRE calculates its social return 
on investment (SROI) to objectively quantify the social value of projects. 
The methodology, which is globally accepted, takes into account the type 
of project beneficiaries, location and time invested in the project. SGRE’s 
SROI amounted in fiscal year 2022 to €7.63 for every €1 invested. The 
Social Commitment department is preparing a new strategy 2023-2025 
focused on strengthening volunteering and successful projects that are 
closer to the business, increasing visibility and encouraging top manage-
ment engagement. For further information please refer to 	SGRE Consoli-
dated Non-Financial Statement 2022, E1. Social Commitment .
Since societal engagement is often driven by individuals, we encourage 
our employees to take social responsibility through our volunteering pro-
grams. GP has a dedicated volunteering framework in place that allows 
employees to spend up to 16 working hours annually volunteering on  
company-endorsed initiatives.
Likewise, the Impact Program at SGRE is a company-wide initiative to bring 
positive change to the communities in which SGRE operates while height-
ening the engagement of employees. Since its launch, SGRE has managed 
51 projects in 23 countries with almost 2 million beneficiaries and the vol-
unteering of more than 700 employees. The 6th edition of the program was 
open to employees from July 2022 to September 2022. The selected pro-
jects will be announced in December 2022. 
Further to this, GP and SGRE are contributing to societal development all 
over the world through a range of projects in our designated focus areas:
Driving the energy transition
A robust energy system is one of the most important prerequisites for the 
sustainable development of societies. This is especially true when it comes 
to providing access to a reliable, sustainable and affordable power supply. We draw on our core competencies and portfolio to help shape the energy 
transition by supporting clean energy research and sustainable develop-
ment and projects.
In Olean, New York, U.S., GP is continuing its pilot program to support work -
ers displaced by the energy transition. The two-year Olean Energy Transi-
tion Initiative helps workers find new careers in sustainable technologies 
through either re-skilling or a small business incubator initiative. In fiscal 
year 2022, the focus is on supporting the community in developing educa-
tional curriculum and training programs, obtaining additional funding and 
setting up a grants program to assist small business start-ups. By the end of 
fiscal year 2023, the program will be developed into a blueprint that will 
serve as a guide for other communities affected by the energy transition. SGRE launched the Forests of Siemens Gamesa, a sustainable development 
initiative in an effort to mitigate climate change and reduce CO2 emissions. 
Since its inception, 26 forests and almost 100,000 trees have been planted 
by volunteers in 13 countries (Germany, Denmark, the U.S., Spain, 
Morocco, France, the UK, Mexico, Brazil, China, India, Uganda and Ethio-
pia), contributing to the removal of more than 7,100t CO2.
Access to education
As digitalization progresses and the energy industry transforms, new skills 
are required. To this end, we are working to extend educational and 
research opportunities to more people. For both GP and SGRE, our respec-
tive strategies aim to inspire, engage and enthuse the next generation in 
the STEM subjects, particularly those in underrepresented demographics.Local projects contribute to societal progress worldwide
 1 4
 4  7 4
 5 6
 4
 4
  3  2  2  2
  2
  2 1
  2
  3
 4
  5
 6
  7Olean Energy Transition Initiative 
in U.S.
FIRST Lego League 
in Mexico, Marocco, Germany, Spain, UK
Forests of Siemens Gamesa 
in 13 countries and Amazon Rainforest
Cooperation with universities 
in China, Mexico, South Africa, Germany, Brazil, U.S.
#PurpleTree project 
in Austria
Donations for victims of the war 
in Ukraine
Just Energy Transition Hackathon 
in South AfricaAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 76Our activities in schools included:
• Planet Rescuers, SGRE’s educational videogame in Minecraft Education 
Edition, has been a huge success. Available for free in four languages 
worldwide, it has has reached more than 200,000 children in around 
1,000 schools. A new chapter was launched in 2022 in which students 
visit an offshore wind turbine and see first-hand how green hydrogen is 
manufactured.
• SGRE designed a robotics program for students with FIRST Lego League 
to develop early engineering skills with real-world applications. In 2022 
the program benefited more than 4,800 children in Mexico, Morocco, 
Germany, Spain and the UK.
We cooperated with universities on the following initiatives:
• In December 2021, SGRE joined forces with the United Nations Sustain-
able Development Solutions Network (SDSN) to promote university tal-
ent in the fight against climate change. Universities for SDG 13 is an 
international competition in which students from five universities work 
across disciplines to produce disruptive solutions for the energy transi-
tion and environmental sustainability. Universities from China, South 
Africa, Germany, Brazil and the U.S. took part.
• In 2022, three colleges in Mexico joined the Universities for Sustainability 
initiative. This learning project was launched in 2021 by SGRE and the 
University of Aalborg with the challenge “How to Achieve an Energy 
Transition with Sustainable Solutions”. 
• In June 2022, over 400 participants took part in the third #HackSTEM22, 
an online event organized by SGRE to promote STEM education through 
a series of webinars and a hackathon. The challenge was to create a 
user-friendly app to improve students’ learning experience in STEM.Sustaining communities 
Providing access to basic infrastructure and services is essential for sus-
taining thriving communities. Siemens Energy is committed to providing 
relief and recovery assistance to areas affected by disasters. In addition to 
normal donations, GP employee and company-matching donations of €1.5 
million were made via the Red Cross for victims of the war in Ukraine. After 
the donation program closed, many employees continued individual chari-
table activities, such as providing accommodation and social support for 
families who have been affected by the war. SGRE also matched employee 
donations to the International Red Cross 2:1 for a total of about CHF 0.5 
million to help Ukraine’s war victims.
In fiscal year 2022, donations from Siemens Energy totaled €3.6 million 
(fiscal year 2021: 4.7 million).
Just Energy Transition (JET) hackathon 
In South Africa, the inaugural Siemens Energy Just 
Energy Transition (JET) hackathon gave a group of sec-
ondary school students the opportunity to brainstorm 
ideas for the country’s transition to a net zero future. 
Given that 77% of South Africa’s energy needs are pro-
vided by coal, this was no easy task. The winning school 
team suggested a clever mix of technologies including 
solar, wind, biomass and biogas and considered the costs 
of their proposal.Brainstorming for South Africa’s net zero future
Donations by region Fiscal year
(million €) 2022 2021
Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 2.26 2.06
Americas 0.62 2.03
Asia, Australia 0.75 0.62
Total 3.62 4.71
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 77Annex
The company and reporting method 78
 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 79
UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 88
Independent auditor’s limited assurance report 93
Imprint 954The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 78Siemens Energy AG is incorporated as a stock corporation (Aktienge-
sellschaft) under the laws of Germany, with its registered office in Munich, 
Germany. The company is entered in the commercial register of the Munich 
local court (Amtsgericht) under HRB 252581. Siemens Energy AG is the par -
ent company of the Siemens Energy Group.
The Siemens Energy business was formerly part of the Siemens Group and 
became an independent company by way of a spin-off and subsequent list-
ing in September 2020. Siemens AG still holds a non-controlling interest in 
Siemens Energy AG of 35% (based on last voting rights notifications). 
Siemens Energy holds a majority interest of approximately 67% in Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy, S.A. (SGRE), Zamudio, Spain. Siemens Energy 
announced a voluntary cash tender offer to acquire the remaining 33% of 
shares that are still in free float, with the intention of delisting SGRE from 
the Spanish stock exchanges.
The shares of Siemens Energy AG are admitted to the regulated market of 
the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and to the subsegment of the regulated market 
with additional post-admission obligations (Prime Standard) (ISIN DE000EN- 
ER6Y0/WKN ENER6Y). Siemens Energy is a member of the German DAX.
Siemens Energy is organized in two reporting segments, Gas and Power 
(GP) and Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE): 
• GP includes our Generation, Transmission and Industrial Applications 
Divisions, with the respective service business based on customer 
groups and product lines, as well as our new business venture New 
Energy Business, developing our business with power-to-X technologies, electrolyzer systems and solutions for the production of green hydrogen 
using renewable energy and water. At our Capital Market Day in May 
2022, we announced a new organizational structure, which came into 
effect on October 1, 2022. Within the new organizational structure, the 
Gas and Power segment is organized into three Business Areas: Gas Ser -
vices, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry. 
• SGRE focuses on the design, development, manufacturing, supply and 
installation of products, as well as the provision of technologically 
advanced services in the renewable energy sector with a focus on wind 
turbines for various wind conditions.  
Reporting method 
Sustainability is an integral part of our company strategy. In our Sustain-
ability Report (hereinafter referred to as the “report”), we publish funda-
mental information about our sustainability activities such as strategy, 
organization, initiatives, programs, management systems and goals. As a 
listed company, our SGRE reporting segment has an independent sustain-
ability strategy and publishes a separate  SGRE Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement 2022 . While the strategic direction of both reporting segments is 
comparable, management approaches and programs may differ. We indi-
cate deviations from a common approach in the respective chapter.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards – Core 
Option (see  GRI Content Index ). We use the UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) 
Reporting Framework and its narrative guidance as a guide when report-
ing on our human rights activities. Reporting period and reporting boundaries 
This report is based on activities carried out during Siemens Energy’s fiscal 
year 2022 (October 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022). Any exceptions are 
indicated as such. We report annually on our progress.
In general, our fully consolidated companies are all covered by the report. 
Possible exceptions regarding the pool of data used are indicated. Minority 
equity investments are not included in the reporting. In order to ensure 
comparability, KPIs from previous years may be adjusted, if necessary, 
which will be indicated accordingly.
Data collection
Given Siemens Energy’s size and global spread, data gathering requires uti-
lization of a distributed IT and data environment. Captured non-financial 
data may adhere to local rules and regulations, which may deviate from 
the group’s reporting requirements. In order to ensure consistency of 
group non-financial reporting, input data is reconciled and adjusted to 
comply with the group’s reporting requirements. All information presented 
in this report that is subject to significant data limitations is identified as 
such. The non-financial data published in this report is collected through 
various internal reporting systems, which, for the most part, are different 
from those applicable to the financial information. In particular, they may 
be subject to less extensive internal documentation, data generation and 
auditing requirements, including those relating to the IT systems used and 
the general control environment. To ensure data quality and maintain The company and reporting methodThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 79information value, we identify and evaluate data restrictions in accordance 
with our internal guidelines. Where necessary and taking into account the 
need for consistency, this may include the exclusion of affected data 
sources. As a result, our figures may not be comparable with the data pub-
lished under the same or similar designations by other companies.
Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this report may not add 
up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely 
reflect the absolute figures.
Environmental reporting and collection of 
environmental data
Siemens Energy uses an environmental information system to collect and 
analyze reports from all relevant sites in all relevant countries. Reporting 
criteria have been defined based on the size of a location. Our major sites 
and offices report the full scope of parameters such as energy use, 
resource consumption and emissions. Minor sites report only selected 
parameters that are applicable to the location. We report environmental 
data for continuing operations. Extrapolation to 100% was applied to 
reflect completeness and ensure global coverage. We report environmen-
tal data for continuing operations. We monitor our environmental impact 
for all office and production sites of environmental relevance, using envi-
ronmental data gathered quarterly. 
Independent assurance review 
We prepare our Sustainability Report to high quality standards. Conse-
quently, we commissioned an independent auditor to conduct a limited 
assurance engagement of this report for the reporting period. You can find 
the assurance statement of Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungs-
gesellschaft on  page 93 .To create transparency on our climate actions, we disclose how we address 
risks and opportunities arising from climate change. To do so, we are follow -
ing the recommendations developed by the G20 Financial Stability Board’s 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Please also see 
our  TCFD Index in the Siemens Energy Annual Report 2022, TCFD Index .
Climate change governance
Sustainability and climate action play a key role in our decision-making 
processes. We are committed to making an important contribution to the 
global economy's decarbonization and supporting our customers in transi-
tioning to a more sustainable world. During Capital Market Day we 
announced our aspiration to reach net zero across the entire value chain, 
in line with a 1.5°C pathway. Siemens Energy already implemented GHG 
emissions reduction initiatives along the entire value chain: in the supply 
chain, in our own operations and through the goods and services we pro-
vide to our customers. Our Sustainability Program, which is fully integrated 
into our company strategy, is led by our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), 
who is also the CEO of our company. Climate action is a regular topic on 
the agenda of Executive Board meetings as sustainability is the corner -
stone of our business strategy. Topics covered include adapting our busi-
ness model to offer decarbonized solutions to our customers and the  
progress of our program to become climate neutral in our own operations 
by 2030. In addition, climate-related risks and opportunities are monitored. 
Within the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, the Executive Board is informed quarterly and aligns on the reporting of all significant risks and 
opportunities throughout the company, including climate issues. Due to 
the relevance of the topic, it was decided to also include emission targets 
in the Senior Management’s Long-Term Incentive plan. Furthermore, 
Siemens Energy is considering emission targets in financing instruments, 
such as the €3 billion Sustainability Linked Syndicated Multi-Currency 
Revolving Credit Facility with an international consortium of banks. Among 
the criteria to determine the interest rate is our emissions reduction.
To reflect the importance of sustainability and climate action, we have estab-
lished the Siemens Energy Sustainability Council. It meets quarterly and on 
demand and consists of decision-makers representing Business Divisions 
(Division CEOs), Regional Hubs (Country CEOs) and Functions (Heads of).
The Sustainability Council strategically oversees the implementation of the 
Sustainability Program by making decisions, setting priorities and focus 
where needed, providing resources to implement the Program and being 
sustainability ambassadors both inside and outside of Siemens Energy. Our 
CEO chairs the Council in his role as CSO. He receives regular updates on 
the status of implementation of the Sustainability Program and an over -
view of topics where a decision is needed (if applicable). Climate change is 
also a regular topic on the agenda of Executive Board meetings and covers 
topics such as adapting our business model to offer sustainable solutions 
to our customers and the progress of our program to become climate neu-
tral in our own operations by 2030. Climate-related risks and opportunities 
are monitored periodically by the Executive Board.Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 80The Vice President Sustainability manages the Sustainability department, 
which is part of the Strategy Function, and is responsible for driving sus-
tainability (including climate-related topics) within Siemens Energy and for 
coordinating the company-wide sustainability activities, programs and 
measures. Among others, the Sustainability department coordinates the 
Climate Neutral Program and works on portfolio topics. The implementa-
tion of climate actions in Divisions and Countries is ensured by nominated 
sustainability business partners. For further information, please refer to 
the chapterr  Strategic focus .
SGRE has established a Board of Directors that sets the strategic direction 
and ambition for sustainability aligned with the corporate strategy, 
approves the sustainability targets, and monitors the achievement of these.Management approach to climate-related risks and 
opportunities
In transitioning to a lower-carbon economy we may encounter consider -
able policy, legal, technology and market challenges. In addition, extreme 
weather conditions due to climate change could affect our business and 
have an impact on Siemens Energy in the medium and long-term. In this 
context, we define risks that could have a material adverse effect on our 
business situation, financial condition (including effects on assets, liabili-
ties and cash flows), results of operations, reputation and opportunities 
that present themselves in our various fields of activity.
Climate-related risks and opportunities are analyzed within our dedicated 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process as well as within further opera-
tional processes, such as in Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS), thus 
providing, for example, property risk engineering analyses for detailed 
location-specific EHS risks (e.g., fires, floods, windstorms). Our ERM aims 
at detecting the relevant business risks across the entire organization as 
possible deviations from the company’s objectives. It is not the ultimate 
purpose of ERM to avoid or eliminate business risks, but to support entre-
preneurial decision-making by finding the right balance of managing risks 
and pursuing opportunities. The management of all our defined organiza-
tional reporting units is responsible for providing all relevant risks for the 
respective unit.
The risk description must explain cause and effect and allow an indepen-
dent expert to gain a good understanding. The risk assessment allows Siemens Energy to prioritize the identified risks and focus management 
attention on the most important topics. The assessment also serves as the 
basis for the definition of adequate response measures and monitoring 
activities. Please refer to the  Siemens Energy Annual Report 2022, Report 
on material risks and opportunities .
Our risks and opportunities are categorized in a five-dimensional plan 
including the dimensions "Strategic", "Operations", "Financial" and "Com-
pliance”, each of them covering a broad spectrum of underlying associated 
topics. In fiscal year 2022, we added “Climate” as a stand-alone category 
with the aim to provide greater transparency on our climate risks.
Relevant risks and opportunities are prioritized in the dimensions impact 
and likelihood considering different impact perspectives, a quantitative 
perspective (financial, defined as potential loss of pre-tax profit) and quali-
tative perspectives (non-financial, defined as one of the four categories: 
business objectives, media/reputation, regulatory bodies’ activities, and 
management time/attention). Impact is the potential adverse effect on our 
objectives, whereas likelihood is its probability of occurrence. Scenario 
analysis can inform both parameters in the context of climate risks and 
opportunities. Risk impact and likelihood are assessed based on a three-
year time horizon through scales that are being consistently used across all 
defined organizational reporting units. In fiscal year 2022 we further devel-
oped the ERM to better reflect the long-term effects of climate change on 
Siemens Energy by adding a “Climate” category in addition to the four 
existing categories. This allowed us to expand the classic three-year, short-
term reporting scope by mid-term (3-5 years) and long-term (5-30 years) Siemens Energy Executive Board
Chief Sustainability Officer
Sustainability department
Division sustainability  
business partnersCountry sustainability  
business partnersFunctionsSustainability CouncilOrganization of our sustainability governanceThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 81climate-related risks, improving the understanding of the development of 
climate-related risks over time. While assessing the impact of a risk, it 
needs to be considered how fast it is approaching the business and how 
resilient the organization will be upon its occurrence. Therefore, vulnerabil-
ity (susceptibility of a company in terms of a company’s adaptive and cop-
ing capacity regarding a specific risk) and velocity (speed of occurrence of a 
specific risk impacting the organization) are fundamental characteristics to 
be respected, in particular when assessing transitional and physical cli-
mate-related risks. Both scales range from 1 to 9, on the basis of which an 
overall exposure score is calculated for each risk that determines the rank -
ing of risks against each other. Based on the calculated exposure scores, we 
defined four exposure levels, "low", "medium", "high" and "major". While 
the impact scale represents magnitudes from (corresponding financial cat-
egorization in brackets) “marginal” (up to €10 million) to “major” (exceed-
ing €125 million), the likelihood ranges from “unlikely” (below 20%) to “cer -
tain” (above 80%). We define substantive impact on our business as a 
potential deviation from our objectives that is not only marginal.
Responding to risks in a first step focuses on the definition of appropriate 
risk strategies, including targets and response measures. In a second step, 
it focuses on the concrete implementation to reach the defined response targets. The key objective of the response phase is to bring the residual risk 
exposure to a tolerable level. For all risks and opportunities (irrespective of 
the exposure level), response plans have to be documented in the ERM 
tool. All response plans have to be agreed upon by the management level 
concerned and are founded on the general response strategy, which has to 
be mandatorily determined (to be chosen from five different risk response 
strategies: "Avoid", "Reduce", "Transfer", "Watch" and "Retain").
During the reporting process, each defined organizational reporting unit 
reports its updated risk register to the next higher organizational level for 
further evaluation and analysis. Thereby, individual risks and opportunities 
of a similar cause-and-effect nature are aggregated bottom-up into broader 
risk and opportunity topics. Such aggregation naturally results in a mixture 
of risks, including those with a primarily qualitative assessment and those 
with a primarily quantitative assessment. The resulting aggregated topics 
form the basis for the evaluation of the company-wide risk and opportu-
nity situation and allow for a meaningful discussion of risk and opportu-
nity at the Siemens Energy group level. Climate change is integrated into 
this process to the extent that it influences risks and opportunities across 
the different organizational units and areas assessed, e.g., in relation to 
corporate sustainability, EHS, supply chain or financing activities.Assessment of physical climate risks in our operations is managed by the 
EHS department in cooperation with external expert consultants. Severe 
weather, such as fires, hurricanes, high winds and seas, blizzards, flooding 
and extreme temperatures may cause evacuation of personnel, curtail-
ment of services and suspension of operations, inability to deliver materi-
als to job sites following contract schedules, loss of or damage to equip-
ment and facilities, supply chain disruption and reduced productivity. We 
continuously evaluate and monitor changes in physical climate parameters 
based on global studies, weather statistics and trends based on interna-
tional experience of insurance companies. In addition, we perform local 
risk assessments based on the EHS emergency management and develop 
protection concepts if needed. Furthermore, our Insurance department 
provides natural hazard risk analysis for each new building project that 
drives the selection process for new site areas. The collected data and 
information allow us to identify geographical areas where we pay special 
attention at our sites to risks from changed physical climate parameters. To 
cover the risk exposure in the supply chain, we introduced a risk analysis 
procedure to systematically identify potential risks in the supply chain. 
Please refer to the chapters  Decarbonization  and  Sustainable supply 
chain management .The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 82Climate-related risks and opportunities  
Risk exposure
Driver Short-term¹ Mid-term² Long-term³ Identified potential impact Risk mitigation and opportunity realization measures
Transitional risk Technology Major Major Major •  Climate change triggers significant changes in our markets and customer requirements (e.g., 
decarbonized energy systems). Our operating results depend on our ability to develop new 
applications while adapting our business models, offering and product portfolio and to optimize 
our cost base accordingly.
•  Even if we succeed in developing innovative technologies, our competitors may be able to 
commercialize similar technologies faster or more successfully than us. •  Close observation of market and regulatory developments, focusing on applications with 
earlier expected market maturity.
•  Development of new applications and continuous adaptation of our business models, 
offerings and product portfolio to changing customer requirements (e.g., H2 production, 
energy storage, resilient grids, decarbonized heat, H2-fired gas turbines).
•  Adaptation of business model and portfolio elements to the changing customer behavior 
following the disruptive developments in the energy market.
•  Acceleration of Siemens Energy's growth by developing a green product portfolio (e.g., 
power-to-X, heat pump), customer requirement-driven solutions (e.g., H2 production, energy 
storage, resilient grids, decarbonized heat, H2-fired gas turbines) and bringing this to market 
within a short time. 
•  Provision of energy storage for our clients in existing power plants, as standalone solutions for 
grids and in combination with renewable energies like photovoltaic or wind.
•  Exploring market opportunities and future portfolio elements and setting the foundation for 
new businesses.
•  Simplification, speed-up and renewal of the way innovations are pursued, reflected in three 
elements: Focus: We select, prioritize and commit to ideas from a strategic perspective. 
Accelerate: We accelerate ideas to maturity through dedicated channels. Sustain: We strive 
for tangible returns and measurable value creation.
•  Analysis of our group portfolio using three areas of focus – core, growth and transformation 
– address technology needs in the R&D planning process and beyond to mitigate technology/
portfolio risks.
•  Consistent decision-making in R&D re-allocation, from underperforming portfolio elements 
to new green portfolio elements reflecting the strategic (transformational) focus of the 
company.
•  Investment in targeted R&D activities that support our five fields of action to transform the 
future, supported by nine technology fields (see chapter  	Customers and Innovation).Market High High Major •  There is a risk that, due to the sustainability trend in the energy markets (e.g., the shift from 
fossil fuels toward renewables, intensified competitive behavior, low demand for hydrocarbons), 
we may face reduced demand for certain parts of our products and services (e.g., fossil-based 
portfolio, countries depending on high oil prices may reduce their investment in energy infra-
structure and/or default on payments) due to a change in consumer preferences.
•  Due to the rapid rise of the trend, we may not be able to adapt our business model and product 
portfolio to such disruptive developments. 
•  Market shifts toward renewable energy are assumed to have a positive impact on aspects of our 
business, including wind power with incentives and government-funded investments becoming 
available across the globe (i.e., IRA bill).Climate-related risks and opportunities
The impacts of climate change might have significant effects on our com-
pany throughout the entire value chain, such as on markets, technologies, 
policy and legal and reputation, as well as physical impacts on our sites, 
portfolio or supply chains, although these changes will be gradual over sev -
eral years or decades. In particular, the trend toward sustainability in the 
energy market might force us to further review our strategy, organizational 
setup and portfolio. We constantly screen for climate action commitments 
and roadmaps, among other things, as well as upcoming regulations, to 
derive risk exposure and share relevant findings with the Sustainability Council for further action in the respective area of responsibility. In order to 
raise awareness of ESG risks in projects, we implemented an ESG check 
early in the process and work closely with Project/Customer Finance & Sales 
to ensure mitigation actions are identified and implemented in a timely 
manner. Furthermore, we perform carbon footprint assessments for 
selected customer projects to support decision-making.
The former GP Generation and Industrial Applications Divisions have been 
identified as most affected by climate-related risks and the decarbonization 
trend, therefore they are being continuously monitored through our risk 
management process.Additionally, due to the variation in climate change risks across our busi-
ness, we have no significant SGRE risks to report.
Based on the common TCFD risk categorization, the table below describes 
both the risks and opportunities arising from climate change for our busi-
ness. For each of our risk mitigation measures, we highlight and pursue the 
respective opportunities to grow our business and contribute to more sus-
tainable energy systems for society.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 83Risk exposure
Driver Short-term¹ Mid-term² Long-term³ Identified potential impact Risk mitigation and opportunity realization measures
Transitional risk Policy and legal Medium Medium Medium •  The markets of the gas and power business are affected by changes in national energy regu-
lations, such as support of renewable energy, carbon pricing and climate change targets, and 
the modernization of energy and electricity markets. These will drive an incentive to adapt 
current products and develop sustainable solutions leveraged by supporting regulations. It is 
also expected that many countries will increase their (financial and regulatory) support for 
climate-friendly technologies and solutions to reach climate neutrality.
•  Risks arising from non-compliance with the Code of Conduct, legal, contractual or (emerging) 
regulatory requirements might affect Siemens Energy, e.g., through legal requirements on 
emissions.
•  CO2 taxes, financing restrictions for GHG-emitting technologies or declining subsidy levels might 
affect the financial sustainability of some of our business segments.
•  The EU Taxonomy requires Siemens Energy to publicly disclose sustainability-related financial 
figures, potentially affecting future investment decisions by external investors.
•  As a result of the conflict in Ukraine, we face the risk that the energy transition in Europe might 
be delayed in the short term because of policymakers’ focus on securing the energy supply in 
Europe. This might, for example, affect plans to accelerate the expansion and integration of 
renewables into the energy system. • Monitoring current and emerging regulations in our major markets.
•  Raising awareness of these new regulations to assess potential impacts and develop sustainable 
solutions.
•  Informing affected businesses as early as possible to create room for timely portfolio  
(products and services) adaptations.
•  Where applicable, informing on emerging regulations either directly through contacts with the 
relevant regulatory bodies, or via associations, or together with similarly affected companies to 
avoid or lessen foreseen impact.
Reputation High Major High •  Reputational changes impact the decisions of our stakeholders. i.e., reputational damage might 
result in adverse effects on our business (e.g., loss of tenders, discontinuation or adaptation of 
some of our products earlier than expected) and financial conditions (e.g., unattractive invest-
ment opportunity for investors, divestments of ESG-oriented investors). However, a positive 
reputation may lead to better stakeholder relationships and thus may result in further business 
opportunities (e.g., financing, tenders, etc.).
•  Increasing public pressure (e.g., media campaigns, boycotts) may accelerate the shift from 
fossil-based energy generation toward renewables. 
•  If the strategic implementation deviates from what has been communicated, this may result in a 
lack of credibility for external stakeholders and partners.•  Implementation of a climate action program, including targets, to create transparency on decar -
bonization levers and aim to decarbonize our portfolio.
•  Active portfolio management, where sustainability/ESG fit is one of the four strategic lenses 
applied.
•  Constant screening of climate-related developments in the strategic programs of customers and 
investors to derive risk exposure and share relevant findings with the Sustainability Council for 
further action in the respective area of responsibility.
•  ESG risks in projects are addressed at different stages of the process from early bid management 
throughout project execution involving various expert teams across the company. We work 
closely with Project/Customer Finance & Sales to discuss identification and implementation of 
mitigation actions. Furthermore, we perform carbon footprint assessments for selected custom-
er projects to support decision-making.
•  Transparency creation on ESG performance for stakeholders, e.g., through the Sustainability 
Report and contribution to relevant ESG ratings and standards.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 84Risk exposure
Driver Short-term¹ Mid-term² Long-term³ Identified potential impact Risk mitigation and opportunity realization measures
Physical risk Acute
increased severity  
of  extreme weather 
eventsMedium Medium - •  Severe weather, such as fires, hurricanes, high winds and seas, blizzards and extreme tempera-
tures may cause evacuation of personnel, curtailment of services and suspension of operations, 
inability to deliver materials to job sites following contract schedules, loss of or damage to 
equipment and facilities, supply chain disruption or reduced productivity. Readiness for these 
emergencies will lead to increased resilience. 
•  We may face the risk of missing out in identifying all global climate risks (e.g., floods, storms, 
etc.) due to changes in climate conditions that result in damage to property, impact on business 
continuity or the need for investment in preventive measures.•  Continuous evaluation and monitoring of changes in physical climate parameters based on 
global studies, weather statistics and trends based on international experience of insurance 
companies.
•  Performance of local risk assessments based on our EHS emergency management and develop-
ment of protection concepts if needed.
•  Our Insurance department provides natural hazard risk analysis for each new building project 
that supports the selection process for the respective site areas. The collected data and infor -
mation allow us to identify geographical areas where we pay special attention to risks from 
changes to physical climate parameters. 
•  Constant improvement of our EHS Emergency Response Management System and the supply 
chain response.
Chronic   
longer-term shifts in 
 climate patterns- - High •  Long-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g., longer and warmer seasons, extreme cold, drought) 
may affect our and our customers’ operations and could result in the development of new 
markets and business models. This would require changes to our product portfolio and project 
execution.
•  We may face the risk of missing out in identifying all global climate risks (e.g., floods, storms, 
etc.) due to changes in climate conditions that result in damage to property, impact on business 
continuity or the need for investment in preventive measures. •  Transparency on environmental stressors and impacts has been created to evaluate, e.g., water 
stress on locations. 
•  We are analyzing the potential impacts on our locations globally using different pathways and 
taking into consideration the total insured values. 
•  Based on this baselining, we are implementing preventive measures, supported by the integrat-
ed management systems and insurance risk reports. 
• Consistent improvement of our EHS Emergency Response Management System.
¹ Siemens Energy defines a time horizon of up to 3 years as short-term, as for short-term analysis the market can be derived from a bottom-up analysis of the pipeline of projects in development (while for longer-term views we have to rely on a top-down approach).
²  Siemens Energy defines a time horizon above 3 and up to 5 years as medium-term. Market developments for this horizon are typically derived from outlook scenarios as provided by third parties, (e.g., IHS, IEA, Bloomberg). Even if the market development may not 
end up being the most likely scenario, this gives us a rather conservative view that enforces reasonable planning that is robust enough against potential deviations from the scenario assumed.
³  For the long-term horizon, holistic long-term energy concepts for countries are being prepared by making use of various scenarios such as IHS Inflections, IHS Multitech Mitigation Case, or IEA STEPS, IEA SDS or IEA Net Zero by 2050. The aim is to better assess the 
consequences and robustness of the current and alternative energy plans we may be proposing. This helps us to identify the most reasonable plan of action while maintaining adequate robustness if real-world developments differ from the assumptions made.
  Beyond this horizon, any predictions are associated with high uncertainty and supposedly little impact on today's business.
  Nevertheless, we are using state-of-the-art climate models (SSPs by IPCC on the basis of the AR6) to account for any potential risks beyond this horizon.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 85Strategic response, strategy resilience and climate 
scenario analysis
Climate-related risks and opportunities influence our strategy as well as 
financial planning – for example, in terms of portfolio adaptation, alloca-
tion of investments and R&D, our own operations and the entire value chain 
– to mitigate risks arising from the transition to a lower-carbon economy, 
such as CO2 taxes, financing restrictions for GHG-emitting technologies or a 
reduction in customer demand due to a change in consumer behavior. As 
such, climate-related risks and opportunities might have a significant 
impact on our company in the short, mid and long term. 
Sustainable energy is a critical driver for growth and prosperity worldwide, 
and we will continue to transform our portfolio of products, solutions and 
services with a focus on sustainability (see chapters  Strategic focus  and 
 Decarbonization ). 
Driven by global sustainability efforts, market scenario outlooks have the 
following in common: electricity will grow faster than GDP, generation 
capacity will grow, grid investment will significantly rise and energy effi-
ciency will be a competitive criterium in industry.
We are responding to these market observations and base our strategy on 
the following pillars: 1) Low- or zero-emission power generation; 2) Trans-
port and storage of electricity; 3) Reducing GHG footprint and energy con-
sumption in industrial processes. On the one hand, we are driving our exist-
ing portfolio more toward sustainability (e.g., Blue Portfolio without SF6 
gases in Transmission). On the other hand, we have set up five fields of 
action to drive innovation within the strategic pillars, in addition to renew -
able energy in SGRE, to form the basis of our transformation. The fields of 
action cover technology development in the short term (e.g., industrial heat 
pumps, battery energy storage), mid term (e.g., offshore hydrogen, indus-
trial waste heat recovery, carbon capture) and long term (e.g., direct air cap-
ture, rotating olefins cracker). We expect the addressable market of the 
fields of action to grow by ~19% CAGR until 2030, while we will increase our R&D with a CAGR of ~51% until 2025 and plan to increase our revenue by a 
CAGR of ~56% until 2030, all based on 2020 numbers. Further, we are also 
aligning our portfolio with our strategy – for example, the divestment of the 
gas engine business or the exit from new coal-fired projects. 
Siemens Energy invests in targeted (mainly mid-term) R&D activities that 
support our Energy of Tomorrow fields of action to transform the future 
(see chapter  Customers and innovation ). Based on the Paris Agreement, 
we check which technologies do or do not fit in order to mitigate our 
investment risk and to come up with the best technologies for our clients.
Furthermore, in response to transition risks such as carbon pricing, 
Siemens Energy has developed a Climate Neutral Program and aims to be 
climate neutral by 2030 in its own operations. In the program, Siemens 
Energy developed reduction pathways for Scope 1 and 2 emissions and 
identified levers and measures, including Division targets. The strongest 
levers were identified:
1. Reducing energy consumption 
2. Using renewable electricity
3. Reducing SF6 emissions
4. New mobility concepts
In addition, our supply chain may face risks such as increasing procure-
ment prices due to carbon pricing, which leads us to take coordinated 
action, such as engaging with our suppliers to reduce carbon emissions 
through our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers program (see  chapter Decar -
bonization ).
Scenario analysis allows analysts to develop an understanding of how vari-
ous combinations of climate-related risks – both transitional and physical 
risks – may affect businesses, strategies and financial performance over 
time. At Siemens Energy, the use of climate scenarios has various facets and 
is used for different purposes to support our customers in achieving the Paris 
Agreement goal to limit global warming and avoid climate change impacts.1. Corporate strategy
For our global strategic assumptions, we mainly use IHS Inflections, but 
also BNEF NEO, IEA Net Zero by 2050 (NZE 2050) and IRENA. They are 
applied in all businesses – for example, to deduce assumptions regarding 
fossil energy additions, investments, policies and regulations. The time 
span until 2040/2050 reflects long cycles of energy investments. The 
results are used to inform management about possible opportunities and 
threats if scenario compliance with climate goals materializes, as well as 
for corporate strategy development, the planning process, the sales targets 
for our regional managers and as a basis for our management decisions on 
an annual basis. Scenarios highlight the need for balancing fluctuating 
renewables and ensuring the stability of the electricity grid.
2. Business strategy
For our business strategies, we use climate scenarios to be able to com-
pare, challenge or complement our strategic mid- to long-term related 
planning processes. They also help us identify new business opportunities, 
such as investment in hydrogen and energy storage. Here, we are using 
IHS Inflections, as well as IEA SDS with the following rationale: IHS Inflec-
tions, for example, is used for the Generation business with customized 
data for market planning. Our regional strategy is based on NDCs. Data 
provided are power generation, installed capacity, retirements and gross 
capacity additions by technology and fuel type, but also further macroeco-
nomic indicators. IEA SDS is used to incorporate a multitude of societal 
(e.g., push for decarbonization) and economic indicators (e.g., GDP, popu-
lation growth) and power generation-specific predictions. Based on this 
market model, strategic business decisions (e.g., footprint, portfolio adap-
tations, marketing strategies) are made, for example, to predict the power 
generation market evolvement in the next 5-10 years. We also use external 
scenarios, especially for installed capacity/power consumption/investments 
(CapEx/OpEx). We compare how the markets react to extreme parameters 
and adjust our strategic outlook monitoring and/or our deducted strategic 
rationales accordingly. Recently, IHS Inflections and IEA SDS scenarios were 
considered, looking at indicators such as uptake of renewables, need for 
decentralization, increased demand for energy efficiency and CO2 prices 
for 2020-2040. The results confirmed our strategy. The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 863. Global decarbonization strategy
The focus on sustainability will transform the whole energy value chain 
over the next few decades. We consider ourselves a leading partner for 
energy transition for our customers and society by providing innovative 
technologies. This includes an understanding of the technological changes 
required for the next 30+ years as well as of the costs involved.
To estimate the future GHG emissions of our products, we used different 
market scenarios to cover various potential futures and global warming 
potentials. We particularly applied IHS scenarios in that context, which are 
to some degree comparable to the IEA scenarios. We applied the following 
steps: We (i) divided our business activities into group portfolio units (GPU) 
to cover all Siemens Energy businesses, (ii) collected GHG emissions for 
each GPU, (iii) categorized GPUs as either fuel burning, consuming elec-
tricity or zero emissions, (iv) selected three different market scenarios 
ranging from well below 2°C to above 2°C to holistically cover the broad 
range of possible market developments and (v) applied growth factors spe-
cific to each category based on the market assumptions of the underlying 
scenario.
To estimate future GHG emissions by GPU, we proceeded as follows: Since 
the GPUs, which are classified as fuel burning, are heavily focused on natu-
ral gas, we determined the growth rates for them mainly based on the 
forecasted gas capacity additions in the underlying market scenario. Like-
wise, we applied the global grid mix as an indicator for electricity-  
consuming GPUs to derive the GHG emissions. Generally, for Siemens 
Energy’s emissions, we assumed the same growth rates as for the respec-
tive market scenario – that is, Siemens Energy develops in sync with the 
market, despite Siemens Energy’s net zero ambitions. Based on that proce-
dure, we calculated an annual absolute amount of GHG measured as met-
ric tons of CO2-equivalents (t CO2e) for all business activities.
We applied a time span until 2050 to be in line with the global climate 
change target setting.This approach enabled us to achieve transparency of GHG emissions on a 
fine-grained GPU level and identify the main drivers for future emissions 
on a GPU level, thus providing the foundation for strategic portfolio  
decision-making. Using this information, we strongly link GHG emissions 
to strategic, technology-related decisions, allowing us to look holistically 
at our business activities.
The main drivers for future emissions are: Growth rates derived from the 
scenario for group portfolio units (GPUs). As we assumed that emissions 
develop in sync with the market scenario, emissions increase accordingly 
in case of increasing capacity of unabated fossil-based global power gener -
ation. All scenarios that assume decreasing fossil-based power generation 
likely contribute to a well below 2°C target, and emissions decrease accord-
ingly. The modeling of emissions on the GPU level allows us a yearly view 
and provides the basis for designing measures to mitigate emission 
increases, thus enabling strategic decision-making.
Scenario analysis provides a foundation for (i) getting transparency on the 
status quo of emissions (based on actual data), (ii) analytically identifying 
potential pathways, (iii) mirroring external market development to internal 
decision-making, (iv) developing potential options to mitigate emissions 
and (v) supporting business strategy and portfolio decisions toward a net-
zero trajectory. Overall, shifting our portfolio toward decarbonization 
entails risks, but we see a big potential in our transforming business, for 
example through our fields of action.
4. Physical climate risks
We are assessing physical climate risks under different climate change sce-
narios, with a focus on the mid and long term (2030-2050). In some areas, 
long-term information until 2100 is also provided for context. While cli-
mate change effects will become more evident over the longer term, other 
evolving factors, such as local development, mean there is higher uncer -
tainty around the impact on Siemens Energy’s property portfolio for our 
most relevant locations – for example, in terms of total insured value.The climate change scenarios are IPCC climate scenarios, called the Shared 
Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs), based on the RCP scenarios. SSPs are the 
most recent scenarios that combine the information included in RCP with 
other social, economic and technological factors (such as energy mix 
used). These are included in the 6th Assessment Report by the Intergov -
ernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC AR6).
This analysis uses climate data from Jupiter Intelligence’s Climate Score 
Global v2.6 (sourced April 2022).
The impact and evolution assessment were conducted along:
• Hazard, peril
• Hazard level
• Return period
• Criticality
• Vulnerability
Perils and metrics assessed:
• Fluvial/Coastal: Flood depth 100-year return period
• Wind: Daily maximum one-minute sustained gust
• Heat: Days exceeding 35°C
• Drought: Total water stress
• Hail: Days large hail possible
• Wildfire: Annual fires per square kilometer
• Precipitation: 24-hour precipitation relative to change in % since 1995 
baseline
• Thunderstorm: Days severe thunderstorm probable
• Cold: Absolute cold waves
We are analyzing the potential impacts on our locations globally using dif-
ferent pathways and taking into consideration their total insured values. 
Based on this baselining, we are implementing preventive measures inte-
grated into the local management systems.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 87Metrics and targets 
Sustainability is a core part of Siemens Energy’s strategy. Therefore, it is 
essential to set targets and measure performance against those targets.
We will continue to transform our portfolio, since the greatest potential to 
reduce GHG emissions is within our products, solutions and services. Sold 
products make up over 99% of our overall carbon footprint. We are com-
mitted to a 28% reduction by 2030 from a 2019 base¹. The SBTi confirms 
that our target for the use of our sold products is in line with the Paris 
Agreement goal to limit global warming to well below 2°C.
Becoming climate neutral in our own operations is an integral part of the 
sustainability journey for Siemens Energy. The GP reporting segment aims 
to be climate neutral in its own operations by 2030. This includes the 
reduction of absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by at least 46% by 2025 from the base year 2019. This is an even greater ambition than our initial 
target year, which was originally 2030 as validated by the SBTi. The stron-
gest levers to achieve climate neutrality by 2030 are reducing energy con-
sumption, using renewable electricity, reducing SF6 emissions and new 
mobility concepts. Furthermore, our target is to have 100% of Siemens 
Energy’s global electricity consumption from renewable sources by 2023. 
In 2022, we reached 90% green electricity.
In 2020, the SBTi verified that SGRE’s emissions reduction targets (Scope 1 
and 2) are aligned to meet the 1.5°C Paris Agreement goal. SGRE achieved 
carbon neutrality in its own operations in 2019, including offsetting 
unavoidable emissions. It aims to become a carbon sink (carbon positive) in 
its own operations by 2040 and seeks a zero-emission supply chain by 2040.With regard to decarbonization in the supply chain, GP runs its Carbon 
Reduction@Suppliers Program in cooperation with an external service pro-
vider, which offers an economic model based on an input/output analysis 
that identifies the CO2 footprint of all suppliers.
GP has set itself the target of reducing relative Scope 3 GHG emissions 
from purchased goods and services as well as transportation and distribu-
tion by 30% per procurement volume (€ spent) until 2030.
SGRE has set a target to engage 30% of its suppliers by spend, covering 
purchased goods and services as well as transportation and distribution, to 
have science-based targets by 2025. Based on this short-term target SGRE 
aims to reach at least 50% by 2040.
For more information on our decarbonization efforts, energy consumption 
and related GHG emissions, please refer to the chapter  Decarbonization .
¹ Baseline fiscal year 2019, 1.5 billion metric tons CO2e.Scope 3 downstream emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2022 2021
Total¹ 1,323,012 1,369,163
Intensity (t CO2e/€ of order intake) 0.035 0.041
1  Includes category “use of sold products” only (well-to-tank emissions are included, biogenic emissions have 
been excluded). SGRE emissions equal zero.Scope 3 upstream emissions¹ Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2022 2021²
Total² 5,081 4,433
Intensity (kg CO2e/€ of purchasing volume) 0.424³ 0.440
¹ Without SGRE.
²  Due to the further development and optimization of the CO2 calculation tool, the CO2 emissions for fiscal year 
2021 and fiscal year 2018 (baseline) were recalculated.
³ Reduction compared to the base year fiscal year 2018 (baseline calculation) -10.85%Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2022 2021
Scope 1 188 206
Scope 2 27 67
Total 215 273
Intensity (t CO2e/€ of revenue) 7.42x10-69.57x10-6The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 88Principle System Measures Achievements
Principle 1
Support of human rightsOur Siemens Energy Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) provide the ethical 
and legal framework within which we conduct our business activities. They 
contain basic principles and rules for our conduct internally and externally, 
for example on human rights and labor standards. The BCG are binding for all 
executives and employees worldwide. The Siemens Energy-wide compliance 
approach is based on the three levels of action “prevent, detect, respond”, cen-
tering around management’s responsibility and comprising focus areas such as 
anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, antitrust, data privacy, export control 
and human rights, which are also reflected in the BCG.
Our actions go beyond compliance with applicable laws and regulations; they 
include, among others, our commitment to the International Bill of Human 
Rights, European Convention on Human Rights, International Labour Orga-
nization (ILO), Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational 
Enterprises and Social Policy, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work (in particular, on the following topics: elimination of child labor, 
abolition of forced labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association, 
the right to collective bargaining, and fundamental freedoms), United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and OECD Guide-
lines for Multinational Enterprises.
All of our suppliers and third-party intermediaries must sign our Code of 
Conduct (CoC) for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries, which requires 
that these basic rights and principles are also upheld in our supply chain. The 
CoC particularly emphasizes respect for the basic human rights of employees, 
including fair remuneration, freedom of association, health and safety stan-
dards and prohibition of discrimination, forced labor and child labor.All employees must agree to the BCG and are given mandatory web-based 
training sessions on the guidelines.
Preventive measures include the Siemens Energy training program, communi-
cation channels such as our “Speak Up” reporting system at GP, the GP ombuds-  
person, the “Integrity Hotline” at SGRE, our compliance risk management 
system and the respective BCG. Internal investigations, including regular and 
ad-hoc audits, are essential for detecting and clarifying misconduct. Miscon-
duct is met with a clear response and immediate consequences.
Human rights due diligence is mandatory in the sales phase for projects that 
meet defined risk criteria, and the process conforms with the UN Guiding Prin-
ciples on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). The results are decisive for the 
project’s decision-making process.
Using our sustainability risk analysis system, we systematically identify poten-
tial risks in our supply chain, including bribery, corruption and human rights 
issues, among others. The cornerstones are the identification of risks and cate-
gorization of commodities, the establishment of risk levels for individual coun-
tries and the use of different strategic measures. Following this risk-based anal-
ysis, we have implemented Corporate Responsibility Self-Assessments (CRSAs) 
for suppliers in identified high-risk countries, whereby they are screened with 
regard to all aspects of the CoC. Furthermore, we conduct quality audits includ-
ing questions about sustainability that cover major aspects and requirements 
of the CoC. We see external sustainability audits (ESAs) as the most effective 
means of reviewing our suppliers’ sustainability performance and therefore 
increased our target for this fiscal year.Siemens Energy has identified material human rights topics based on an inter -
nal materiality analysis from the following perspectives: “supply chain”, “work -
place” and “customer projects”. They reflect our value chain and have been 
sorted according to relevance for our business.
Awareness of human rights issues was raised in the reporting period in the 
Siemens Energy Sustainability Council, for example, the Siemens Energy Exec-
utive Board as well as the Supervisory Board were briefed on relevant topics, 
such as the implementation of the German Supply Chain Due Diligence Act.
In fiscal year 2022, 94% of our employees were trained on the BCG. Around 
75% of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements worldwide.
In the year under review, we conducted 3,466 CRSAs for suppliers. Compared 
to fiscal year 2021, the number increased by 106%. Furthermore, we con-
ducted 961 quality audits with integrated sustainability questions. Compared 
to fiscal year 2021, the number increased by 127%. In addition, we conducted 
167 ESAs, which is an increase of 6% compared to fiscal year 2021. When sur -
veying our approximately 1,600 relevant suppliers, we use the RMI’s Conflict 
Minerals Reporting Template to obtain the necessary information on smelters 
producing tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (3TG).
 Sustainable supply chain management, pages 53-57
 Human rights, pages 60-61Principle 2
Exclusion of human rights abuses
Principle 3
Assurance of freedom of association
Principle 4
Elimination of all forms of forced labor
Principle 5
Abolition of child laborUN Global Compact – Communication on Progress
Siemens Energy has been a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since 2020 and is 
committed to its Ten Principles. Index according to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact.The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 89Principle System Measures Achievements
Principles 1 – 5 (cont.) Furthermore, Siemens Energy is committed to preventing the use of minerals 
from conflict-affected and high-risk areas in its supply chain. To this end, we 
have a Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy in place to provide a uniform, 
company-wide supply chain management standard.
SGRE, in turn, has implemented its own compliance system and BCG that are 
in line with the GP approach, as well as a CoC for suppliers and third-party 
intermediaries according to its BCG and its Global Corporate Social Responsi-
bility Policy.
 Compliance and integrity, pages 62-65
 Sustainable supply chain management, pages 53-57 
 Human rights, pages 60-61To determine the use, sources and origin of minerals from conflict-affected 
and high-risk areas in our supply chains, we investigate the smelters involved. 
Siemens Energy is part of the steering committee of the Responsible Minerals 
Initiative (RMI), which provides an assessment program for smelters. Based 
on risk sources identified by the EU, which cover armed conflicts, weak gover -
nance and human rights abuses, Siemens Energy also conducts a specific min-
eral risk assessment to identify other relevant minerals apart from 3TG.
 Sustainable supply chain management, pages 53-57 
 Human rights, pages 60-61
Principle 6
Elimination of discrimination
Empowerment of womenAt Siemens Energy, we strive to create a workplace environment that is open to 
everybody regardless of their ethnic origin, religion, world view, age, disability, 
gender and sexual orientation throughout the whole organization. We strive to 
offer our employees equal treatment in a non-discriminatory work setting. To 
emphasize the relevance of Inclusion & Diversity for Siemens Energy, we have 
anchored the topic to the very top of the company with Maria Ferraro, the Chief 
Financial Officer of Siemens Energy, also holding the role of Chief Inclusion & Diver -
sity Officer. Our Leadership Essentials and our values – caring, agile, respectful and 
accountable – are key in ensuring our employees feel valued and respected.
This commitment is also anchored in our BCG as well as our CoC, which emphasizes 
respect for basic human rights, including fair remuneration and prohibition of dis-
crimination. SGRE’s Diversity & Inclusion strategy is set over a two-year period and 
cascaded across the business. Strategic objectives are backed by specific action plans.
 Human rights, pages 60-61
 Working at Siemens Energy, pages 66-73To enable our contribution to the SDGs and prepare the company for the future, 
GP has implemented the “People Agenda”. The People Agenda, including its pro-
grams and strategic initiatives, is designed around three main building blocks: 
Thriving environment, Game-changing leaders, and Vibrant workforce. The SGRE 
people management model is committed to professional excellence and work-life 
quality and is structured around three main pillars: Leadership Excellence, Diversity 
and Inclusion, and Global Footprint. We strive to offer our employees equal treat-
ment in a non-discriminatory work setting. To emphasize the relevance of I&D for 
Siemens Energy, our Chief Financial Officer, Maria Ferraro, is also Chief Inclusion 
and Diversity Officer. To measure progress, we have developed a global Inclusion 
& Diversity dashboard for the GP reporting segment. It includes performance 
indicators covering multivariant diversity, such as the share of women, age groups 
and minorities in management, as well as employee survey results. In 2022, we 
launched a pilot Female Leadership@Scale program to accelerate the development 
of future female leaders (this is in addition to our Catalysta female development 
program).
SGRE has, for example, developed an Equal Opportunities Policy that defines 
positive action to increase the representation of underrepresented groups in the 
workforce. SGRE’s purpose of empowering people to lead the future and its Culture 
of Trust program are essential to its business model. They are core to the business 
strategy, organization, hiring and decision-making process, daily operations and 
how the company and employees grow.
 Working at Siemens Energy, pages 66-73GP aims to reach a share of 25% women in top leadership positions by 2025, and a 
share of 30% women in top leadership positions by 2030.
SGRE aims to reach a share of 25% women in headcount and in leadership positions 
by 2025, and a share of 30% women in headcount and leadership positions by 2030. 
In the year under review, women accounted for 19.8% of the workforce. Women 
hired amounted 22.9% of all new hires.
The share of female employees in top leadership positions at GP is 22% (September 
30, 2021: 21%). The share of female employees in leadership positions at SGRE is 
14% (September 30, 2021: 13%).
On September 30, 2022, Siemens Energy employed about 1,400 people with a 
disability in Germany. In several countries, it is not allowed to register people with 
disabilities due to legal requirements.
 Working at Siemens Energy, pages 66-73The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 90Principle System Measures Achievements
Principle 7
Precautionary approach to environmental  
protectionSiemens Energy is committed to not only protecting the environment but also 
managing the health, safety and well-being of our employees, partners and other 
stakeholders who may be affected by our business and operational activities. That 
is why our priority is a strong Zero Harm culture, which is driven by certain essen-
tials, behaviors and principles (see graphic on Zero Harm). At Siemens Energy, we 
aim to minimize our impact on the environment by reducing emissions, waste and 
freshwater withdrawal as well as protecting biodiversity. In particular, Siemens 
Energy recognizes that urgent action on climate change is required. Therefore, 
sustainability is an essential part of our strategy. Siemens Energy has EHS man-
agement systems in place to manage its environmental performance and comply 
with applicable laws, regulations and stakeholder expectations. The environmental 
management systems are founded on the principles and elements of the interna-
tional ISO 14001 and 50001 standards or energy audits as per national legislation. 
Our EHS Policy recognizes and reflects our societal responsibilities for environmen-
tal protection and the health and safety of our employees, business partners and 
other stakeholders who may be affected by our business activities.
In the GP reporting segment, our EHS Policy is further supported by the Zero Harm 
Framework, which aims to embed responsible principles and behavior at all levels 
of the organization. SGRE also continues to instill a strong safety and Zero Harm 
culture across the global business. Its initiatives include “Safety is My Choice” and 
the 10 Life-Saving Rules. Additionally, SGRE has defined its environmental targets 
as part of the Sustainability Strategy Vision 2040.
 Conservation of resources, pages 45-48
 Decarbonization, pages 30-36The main objectives focused on improving environmental performance in the 
areas of energy, air, water and waste, including increased energy efficiency by 
using energy management systems at sites, adapting the purchasing strategy 
toward green electricity by 2023, controlling air-pollutant emissions by replacing 
ozone depleting substances and reducing solvents, implementation of local water 
strategies and risk analysis, zero waste to landfill by consistently preventing landfill 
waste, and reducing waste materials. As part of our climate action, we are consis-
tently pursuing climate neutrality in our own operations and intend to be climate 
neutral by 2030 and to compensate for remaining emissions from then on. The 
main levers to achieve emissions reductions are the reduction in energy consump-
tion, using renewable electricity, reducing SF₆ emissions and new mobility con-
cepts. Furthermore, CO2 pricing is an important steering mechanism for achieving 
climate neutrality. We believe binding CO2 budgets for all sectors and regions as 
well as clear CO2 price signals can guide us toward the 1.5°C target. At the same 
time, we are dedicated to delivering our customers innovative solutions that drive 
their energy transformation and support the decarbonization of the energy sector. 
We will continue to transform our portfolio of products, solutions and services and 
focus on building our company based on three key pillars: low- or zero-emission 
power generation, transport of energy and storage, and reducing our GHG foot-
print and energy consumption in industrial processes. In April 2021, the SBTi vali-
dated the absolute GHG reduction targets for our GP reporting segment, not only 
for our own operations (Scope 1 and 2), but also for our sold products (a category 
of Scope 3). It confirms that our targets are in line with the Paris Agreement to 
limit global warming. To advance climate neutrality across the entire value chain, 
we are also working on decarbonizing our supply chain together with our suppliers 
with our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers Program. In 2020, the SBTi verified that 
SGRE’s emissions reduction targets (Scope 1 and 2) are aligned to meet the 1.5°C 
Paris Agreement goal. SGRE achieved climate neutrality in its own operations in 
2019, including offsetting unavoidable emissions. It expanded its ambitions by set-
ting a net zero emissions target covering Scope 1 to 3 by 2040. SGRE has defined 
its environmental targets as part of the Sustainability Strategy Vision 2040.
 Product stewardship, pages 49-52
 Conservation of resources, pages 45-48
 Decarbonization, pages 30-36During fiscal year 2022, GP transitioned from having six umbrella certificates cov -
ering ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and ISO 45001 to having one overarching GP multi-site 
certificate that covers all three standards. In the next step, countries and stand-alone 
certificates will be integrated into the GP multi-site certificate. In fiscal year 2022, we 
managed to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by around 21% to 215,000 metric 
tons CO2e. Included in this is a reduction of SF₆ by 14%. As part of our SBTi commit-
ment, we aim for a reduction of absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by at least 
46% by 2030 from the base year 2019. Furthermore, we have set ourselves the target 
to reduce our SF₆-related emissions by 60% by 2030 compared to a 2019 baseline. 
SGRE achieved climate neutrality in its own operations in 2019, including offsetting 
unavoidable emissions. Siemens Energy’s total energy consumption during the 
reporting period was 5.8 million gigajoules. Compared to fiscal year 2021, this is an 
decrease of about 8%. Our share of green electricity was 90%, and we aim to achieve 
100% by 2023. The Scope 3 downstream emissions (category “use of sold products”) 
for fiscal year 2022 are 1.32 billion metric tons CO2e. Compared to fiscal year 2021, 
this is an decrease of about 3% in total emissions. The GP reporting segment is com-
mitted to a 28% reduction by 2030 from a 2019 baseline. At the GP reporting seg-
ment, the Scope 3 upstream emissions (categories “purchased goods and services” as 
well as “transportation and distribution”) for fiscal year 2022 5.1 million metric tons 
CO2e, resulting in an intensity of 0.424 kg CO2e per € of purchasing volume, which is 
4% lower in intensity compared to 2021. For GP, we have set ourselves an ambitious 
target of reducing our relative Scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and 
services as well as transportation and distribution by 30% per procurement volume 
(€ spent) until 2030 based on fiscal year 2018. SGRE has set a target to engage 30% 
of its suppliers by spend, covering purchased goods and services as well as transpor -
tation and distribution, to have science-based targets by 2025. Based on this short-
term target SGRE aims to reach at least 50% by 2040. The absolute waste amounted 
to about 139,000 metric tons. The waste in fiscal year 2022 was 4% lower compared 
to the previous year. The share of recycling was 81%.
At Siemens Energy, the volume of water abstracted over the reporting period equates 
to 3.45 million cubic meters, which is a decrease of 16%. Wastewater from our facil-
ities and manufacturing processes amounts to 3.46 million cubic meters, which is a 
decrease of 15%.
 Conservation of resources, pages 45-48
 Decarbonization, pages 30-36The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 91Principle System Measures Achievements
Principle 8
Specific initiatives to promote  
environmental protectionRaising our employees’ awareness on environmental and climate protection is an 
element of both our environmental strategy and our social commitment. With 
internal communication measures, we help create a greater sense of responsibility 
for ecological issues.
Diverse countries around the world engage in societal engagement initiatives on 
building awareness for environmental topics within our global framework on soci-
etal engagement.
For the GP reporting segment, our Zero Harm Framework provides the foundation 
upon which we aim to meet the growing number of environmental protection 
requirements of our customers and strengthen our position as a sustainable com-
pany. Through the various building blocks, the framework provides content for 
local programs and initiatives.
 Product stewardship, pages 49-52
 Conservation of resources, pages 45-48
 Societal engagement, pages 74-76Our EcoTransparency app enables our Sales, Product Management, and R&D 
departments to calculate product- and project-specific CO2 footprints under vary -
ing scenarios.  The app is based on existing life cycle assessment models and pro-
vides customers and stakeholders with additional information regarding specific 
footprints, thus enabling them to meet reduction targets for all environmental 
impact categories.
With the GP societal engagement approach, we have defined a framework that 
includes three focus areas that reflect our global commitment but also allow local 
autonomy:
• Driving the Energy Transition: Support clean energy R&D
•  Access to Education: Promote STEM (science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics) subjects and climate education (especially for underrepresented 
demographics)
• Sustaining Communities: Disaster recovery (especially related to electricity supply)
SGRE has defined its environmental targets as part of the Sustainability Strategy 
Vision 2040.
 Product stewardship, pages 49-52
 Conservation of resources, pages 45-48
 Societal engagement, pages 74-76Local zero waste initiatives have been identified by our employees and are supported 
by Siemens Energy. At Siemens Energy in Brazil, all sites have now achieved zero 
landfill waste generation. This was done through increasing waste segregation and 
recycling, and developing new solutions for waste disposal besides landfill. Our sites 
have now achieved 90.5% recycling in their operations. In fiscal year 2022, we sent 
4 metric tons of waste to landfill, down from 295 metric tons in 2021 – a reduction 
of 99%.
In 2021, SGRE launched RecyclableBlade, the first com  prehensive recyclable rotor 
blade solution that is ready for commercial offshore projects. The RecyclableBlade is 
produced the same way as a standard blade. The only difference is the use of a new 
type of resin that allows the blade components to be efficiently and gently sepa rated 
from one another at the end of the blade’s working life. This allows the individual 
materials to be recycled for new applications across various industries – a major step 
toward creating a waste-free wind industry. 
 Product stewardship, pages 49-52
Principle 9
Development and diffusion of 
 environmentally friendly technologiesPublic energy infrastructure is one of the most important prerequisites for the 
sustainable development of societies. The greatest potential for Siemens Energy 
to reduce GHG emissions is in products, solutions and services. Our mission is to 
support our customers in transitioning to a more sustainable world by providing 
technologies for a sustainable, affordable and reliable energy supply, based on our 
innovative technologies. To underscore our strategic focus of providing innovative 
technology for our customers’ energy transition, we have defined five fields of 
action to decarbonize our portfolio.
As a provider of clean and affordable energy, SGRE’s strategy has focused on 
opportunities to develop new onshore and offshore wind turbines with bigger 
rotors able to deliver higher annual energy levels at a lower cost.
 Customers and innovation, pages 23-27
 Decarbonization, pages 30-36We will continue to transform our portfolio of products, solutions and services and 
focus on building our company based on three key pillars: low- or zero-emission 
power generation, transport and storage of electricity and reducing our GHG foot-
print and energy consumption in industrial processes.
Through our company strategy, we are shaping our existing business by develop-
ing our portfolio with a focus on sustainability and service by allocating the R&D 
budget to achieve breakthrough innovations and by creating an ecosystem of 
partners. We are investing in targeted R&D activities that support our five fields of 
action to transform the future, supported by nine technology fields.
 Strategic focus, pages 13-20
 Customers and innovation, pages 23-27In fiscal year 2022, Siemens Energy invested €1.1 billion in R&D.
Our partnership ecosystem allows our businesses to cooperate in specific focus 
areas, for example, Siemens Energy is helping to accelerate green hydrogen pro-
duction worldwide by scaling up the production of large-scale electrolyzers. In June, 
we announced a joint venture with the French gas network Air Liquide to build a 
multi-gigawatt factory for our electrolysis modules (“stacks”) in Berlin. As part of our 
engagement with the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), Siemens 
Energy joined the new IRENA Decarbonization Alliance in September 2022 that aims 
to facilitate dialogue on decarbonization.
 Customers and innovation, pages 23-27
 Decarbonization, pages 30-36The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 92Principle System Measures Achievements
Principle 10
Measures against
corruptionWe pursue a zero-tolerance approach toward corruption, violations of the princi-
ples of fair competition and other breaches of the law, which requires a holistic 
compliance system consisting of measures to ensure that business is always car -
ried out in full accordance with the law as well as our internal rules. When such 
cases do occur, we take immediate action.
Compliance is the basis for all our decisions and activities. The Siemens Energy- 
wide compliance approach is based on the three levels of action “prevent, detect, 
respond”, centering around management’s responsibility and comprising focus 
areas such as anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, antitrust, data privacy, 
export control and human rights, which are also reflected in the BCG. The BCG are 
binding for all employees worldwide.
We support international organizations that strengthen responsible business 
practices, including the United Nations Convention against Corruption and the 
Anti-Bribery Convention of the OECD.
 Compliance and integrity, pages 62-65The Siemens Energy compliance system combines strong central governance 
with the work of qualified compliance officers, who aim to ensure its worldwide 
implementation. The entire management team is required to commit to compli-
ance to ensure that all business decisions and activities conform to the relevant 
legal requirements and follow our own values and company policies. We expect 
the same commitment from all our employees and conduct regular surveys on 
integrity to obtain direct feedback from them. Siemens Energy continuously main-
tains and develops its compliance system. Our global compliance training program 
requires all managers and employees in positions with a specific risk profile to 
complete compliance training.
 Compliance and integrity, pages 62-65On September 30, 2022, 94% of our employees were trained on the BCG, 95% on 
antitrust, 93% on export control and 86% on data privacy.
Additionally, we developed the Compliance Awareness Campaign to strengthen inter -
nal compliance communication and revised the compliance training program to adapt 
it to specific requirements. In this reporting period, this included ad hoc training in 
the field of export control to ensure the correct handling of sanctions (especially on 
Russia) and specific awareness activities. 
 Compliance and integrity, pages 62-65The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 93We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the sections 1 
“The company”, 2 “Decarbonizing our business” and 3 “Responsible opera-
tions” in the Sustainability Report of Siemens Energy AG, Munich (hereaf-
ter the “Company”), for the reporting period from October 1, 2021 to Sep-
tember 30, 2022 (hereafter the “report”). 
Our engagement did not include interviews presented in the report as well 
as any prospective disclosures and links to other web pages. Our engage-
ment exclusively relates to the English PDF-version of the report, which is 
published at  www.siemens-energy.com/sustainability-report-2022 . 
Management’s Responsibilities 
The legal representatives of the Company are responsible for the prepara-
tion of the report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Stan-
dards of the Global Reporting Initiative (hereafter the “GRI criteria”) and for 
the selection of the information to be assessed.
These responsibilities of the Company’s legal representatives include the 
selection and application of appropriate sustainability reporting methods 
and making assumptions and estimates about individual sustainability dis-
closures of the group that are reasonable in the circumstances. Further -
more, the legal representatives are responsible for such internal control as 
they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a report that 
is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud (manipulation of 
the report) or error. Independence and quality assurance of the auditor’s firm
We have complied with the German professional requirements on inde-
pendence as well as other professional conduct requirements.
Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional 
pronouncements – in particular the BS WP/vBP [“Berufssatzung für 
Wirtschaftsprüfer/vereidigte Buchprüfer”: Professional Charter for German 
Public Accountants/German Sworn Auditors] in the exercise of their Profes-
sion and the IDW Standard on Quality Management issued by the Institute 
of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW): Requirements for Quality Manage-
ment in the Audit Firm (IDW QS 1) and accordingly maintains a compre-
hensive quality management system that includes documented policies 
and procedures with regard to compliance with professional ethical 
requirements, professional standards as well as relevant statutory and 
other legal requirements.
Responsibilities of the auditor 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with limited assurance on the 
report based on our assurance engagement. 
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the Interna-
tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assur -
ance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Infor -
mation” issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board 
(IAASB). This standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether any matters have 
come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Company’s report is 
not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI criteria. 
In a limited assurance engagement, the procedures performed are less 
extensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and accordingly, a 
substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. The selection of the 
assurance procedures is subject to the professional judgment of the auditor. 
In the course of our assurance engagement we have, among other things, 
performed the following assurance procedures and other activities:
• Inquiries of employees and inspection of documents concerning the 
sustainability strategy, sustainability principles and sustainability man-
agement including the stakeholder dialog of Siemens Energy AG,
• Inquiries of employees responsible for data capture and consolidation as 
well as the preparation of the report, to evaluate the reporting pro-
cesses, the data capture and compilation methods as well as regarding 
internal controls to the extent relevant for the assurance of the report, 
• Identification of likely risks of material misstatement in the report,
• Analytical procedures on selected disclosures in the report at group 
level and at the level of the segments Gas and Power and Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy,Independent auditor's report on a limited assurance engagement
TO SIEMENS ENERGY AG, MUNICHThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 94• Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis relating to the 
collection and reporting of selected data at group level, at the level of 
the segments and at selected sites,
• Inquiries of employees from the central Sustainability department and 
other relevant departments on material qualitative statements in the 
report as well as the inspection of selected underlying documents,
• Reconciliation of selected disclosures with the corresponding data in the 
consolidated financial statements and combined management report,
• Evaluation of the presentation of disclosures in the report.  
Assurance conclusion
Based on the assurance procedures performed and the evidence obtained, 
nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sec-
tions 1 “The company”, 2 “Decarbonizing our business” and 3 “Responsible 
operations” in the Sustainability Report of Siemens Energy AG for the 
period from October 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022 are not prepared, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the GRI criteria.Restriction of use
We draw attention to the fact that the assurance engagement was con-
ducted for the Company’s purposes and that the assurance report is 
intended solely to inform the Company about the result of the assurance 
engagement. As a result, it may not be suitable for another purpose than 
the aforementioned. Accordingly, the assurance report is not intended to 
be used by third parties for making (financial) decisions based on it. Our 
responsibility is to the Company alone. We do not accept any responsibility 
to third parties. Our assurance conclusion is not modified in this respect. 
General Engagement Terms and Liability
The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprü-
fungsgesellschaften [German Public Auditors and Public Audit Firms]” dated 
January 1, 2017 are applicable to this engagement and also govern our rela-
tions with third parties in the context of this engagement (www.de.ey.com/
general-engagement-terms). In addition, please refer to the liability provi-
sions contained there in no. 9 and to the exclusion of liability towards third 
parties. We accept no responsibility, liability or other obligations towards 
third parties unless we have concluded a written agreement to the contrary 
with the respective third party or liability cannot effectively be precluded. We make express reference to the fact that we will not update the assur -
ance report to reflect events or circumstances arising after it was issued, 
unless required to do so by law. It is the sole responsibility of anyone tak -
ing note of the summarized result of our work contained in this report to 
decide whether and in what way this information is useful or suitable for 
their purposes and to supplement, verify or update it by means of their 
own review procedures. 
Munich, December 2, 2022
Ernst & Young GmbH 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Spannagl Johne  
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin 
(German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor)The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022Page 95Published by
Siemens Energy AG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich
Germany
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
Siemens-energy.com/sustainability
© Siemens Energy, 2022
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Contact
sustainability@siemens-energy.com
Picture Credits
page 14: ElecLink
page 25: Equinor
page 42: Gecko Robotics 
page 50: Siemens Gamesa
page 51: Shutterstock
page 74: Siemens Energy Austria
Concept, editing, and layout in cooperation with:
Accenture GmbH, Kronberg im Taunus
https://www.accenture.com/de-deImprintThe company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
 siemens-energy.com
 twitter.com/siemens_energy
 linkedin.com/siemens-energy
Published by
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com  
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com  
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
siemens-energy.com/sustainability  
© Siemens Energy, 2022
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.