Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 1 of 2 
 
Munich, November 16, 2022 
Supervisory Board renews contracts  
with Maria Ferraro and Tim Holt 
Maria Ferraro (49) and Tim Holt (53) will serve on the Managing Board of Siemens Energy for 
another five years. The Supervisory Board has prematurely extended their mandates, which expire 
at the end of September 2023, until the end of November 2027. 
 
Ferraro and Holt have been members of the Managing Board since the spin-off of Siemens Energy 
in 2020. Maria Ferraro, originally from Canada, is the company's Chief Financial Officer (CFO), and 
was also appointed Chief Inclusion & Diversity Officer (CIDO) in November 2020. Tim Holt, who 
holds both German and U.S. citizenship, heads the Grid Technologies division responsible for energy 
transmission. In Germany, he also acts as Labor Director.  
 
Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, said: "Maria Ferraro and Tim Holt have been 
instrumental in shaping the first years of Siemens Energy's autonomy. As CFO, Maria played a major 
role in credibly establishing Siemens Energy as a listed company. Tim Holt has significantly 
expanded the market share of the important transmission business. Both make an essential 
contribution to Siemens Energy. By extending their contracts prematurely, we are creating 
continuity on the Managing Board to enable us to unlock the attractive value-creation potential of a 
sustainable energy business." 
 
 
Contact for journalists 
Ivonne Junghänel 
Phone: +49 (0) 172 102 6780 
E-Mail: ivonne.junghaenel@siemens-energy.com  
 
 
 
 Press release 
Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 2 of 2 
 This press release is available at www.siemens-energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy 
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 92,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022. 
www.siemens-energy.com . 
 