siemens-energy.com/sustainabilitySustainability at  
Siemens Energy
Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021 
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 2Climate change is a major threat to humanity. As Siemens 
Energy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer Christian Bruch notes, the time has come to radically change and decarbonize our energy system. How to fight  
climate change 
now?
Interview: Oliver Sachgau    Photography: Götz Schleser
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 3In conversation at the Futurium, Berlin’s “House of Futures”, Bruch 
lays out a path forward for Siemens Energy and the world at large.
Christian Bruch, the world is far from where it needs to be to meet 
the Paris Climate Agreement goals. We are nearing a tipping point. 
Why is there still so much hesitancy to do what’s needed to meet 
these goals?
I would not call it hesitancy. The transformation we need to go 
through is complex and massive. We can see that the elements we 
are driving today are not sufficient. The IPCC [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change] report has shown us that we have to move fast, and we have to move differently. We need to bring all stake-holders together to shift gears. The time to act is now.The effects of climate change are distributed unevenly, affecting some areas of the world much more than others, especially developing coun-
tries and the global south. How do you address the disparity between 
where climate change is hitting people the hardest and where we have the most resources to tackle it?
We do need different solutions in different parts of the world. At the 
same time, as the Paris Agreement clearly states, the developed world has an obligation to support the developing world in tackling the chal-lenges of energy supply while addressing sustainability. We, as the developed world, have not lived up to this commitment. We need to rec-
ognize that in the developing world in particular, the increase in energy 
demand will be massive. If the developing world fails to deal with this challenge, we will not be able to mitigate climate change, which will ultimately also be to the disadvantage of the developed world.
Your current portfolio consists of conventional and decarbonized tech-
nologies. At the same time, you want to be the partner of choice for the energy transition. What will this mean for your portfolio? 
There's no single silver bullet for the energy transition, whether it's solar 
or wind or hydrogen. We will need a variety of technologies – and for a transitional time, we will need conventional technologies. This is why I believe it's a strength to have what we call decarbonized portfolio ele-ments and conventional technologies like gas turbines, because our cus-tomers have the same problem. Having said that, our portfolio is abso-lutely going to change going forward. That’s not even a question. We focus our R&D investments of €1 billion every year on technologies that are relevant in a decarbonized energy world.  
You’ve spoken in the past about the importance of bridging technolo-
gies. Why would switching to gas help us decarbonize? Aren’t you just taking half-measures?
First of all, if you can produce power from a renewable energy source, 
that’s a better way to do it. Nobody is questioning that. But if you have a situation today where 70% of the CO
2 emissions in power production are caused by coal-fired power production, the most urgent task becomes how to stop and replace that. If gas helps us build a bridge by cutting the CO
2 emissions by two-thirds compared to coal, then this is the right mea-
sure for reducing CO2 emissions in the short and medium term. Will it 
still be the right technology and approach ten or more years down the road? Probably not, but for me, it's important that we stop talking about long-term targets and start tackling some things immediately.
Siemens Energy has the goal of being powered by 100% renewable 
energy by 2023 as one lever of becoming climate neutral by 2030. How are you doing with these goals? 
We're well on track here, and there's no doubt that we will achieve that 
target of being climate neutral in our own operations by 2030. Reaching this goal will obviously require reducing emissions, but we will also need to compensate emissions from 2030 onwards.  
Is it more important to talk about how we as individuals use electricity, 
or about the way companies generate it? 
That is a very important point because we underestimate the relevance 
of the individual. If we don't change the way we consume energy, we won't solve the problem. It will require all three elements – how we gen-erate electricity, how we distribute and store it, and how we consume it – and we all have a role as individuals to tackle that. We will have to change, all of us.
 
 Oliver Sachgau is a Berlin-based German-Canadian writer and journalist 
focusing on financial topics. His work has appeared in Bloomberg, the Wash-
ington Post, Fortune, and the Independent.
The Futurium in Berlin is a meeting point for presenting and exchanging 
information about science, research, and innovation – the ideal location for a conversation with Christian Bruch about the future of sustainability 
in the energy sector.
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 4Siemens Ener gy A G
Gas and P ower
Gener ation Transmission New Ener gy Onshore Offshore
Centr al DistributedIndus trial ApplicationsSiemens Gamesa Renew able Ener gy
Our company structureAt Siemens Energy, our mission is to empower our customers to meet the 
growing demand for energy while transitioning to a more sustainable world. With our innovative technologies and extensive energy experience we are committed to decarbonizing global energy systems and driving the energy transition.
Our broad portfolio of products, solutions and services covers almost the 
entire energy value chain, from conventional to renewable energy technolo-gies. These include gas and wind turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, high voltage grid access solutions and high voltage transformers. 
Behind Siemens Energy is a global team of more than 91,000 dedicated 
employees working across 90 countries. Our company is structured around two segments, Gas and Power (GP) and Siemens Gamesa Renewable 
Energy (SGRE), under which we operate the following Divisions:Company overview
Gas and Power
•	Generation: We provide products, solutions and services for conven-
tional power generation with high efficiencies. We reduce carbon emis-
sions from existing assets and develop technologies that will be critical in the future for the decarbonization of power generation applications.
•	Industrial Applications: We support industrial customers in their con-ventional business and activities towards energy transition, by providing safe, reliable and highly efficient rotating, electrical, automation and digital products, solutions and services.
•	Transmission: We partner with our customers to build and operate effi-
cient grid infrastructures. We offer reliable products, solutions, and state-of-the-art services improved with digital functions to meet the growing demand for sustainable electrification.•	New Energy Business:  We shape the green hydrogen economy. We are 
developing the technologies and applications urgently needed for decarbonization on an industrial scale and coupling economic sectors with renewable sources of power
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy
Wind energy: Through our majority stake in SGRE, we are one of the lead-ing providers of wind power solutions across 90 countries. SGRE operates with a flexible business model and manages its business in two segments:
•	Wind Turbines (comprising Onshore and Offshore), which covers the 
design, development, manufacturing and installation of wind turbines, 
and
•	Service.
  Orders
(in billions of €)
~ 33  
~ 28.5Revenue
(in billions of €)
~ 84Order backlog
(in billions of €)Key financial indicators
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 5At Siemens Energy, we believe innovative technologies are the key to com-
bating climate change. As one of the world’s leading energy technology companies, we are uniquely positioned to drive the energy transition. Our extensive experience in the energy market makes us the partner of choice for our customers on their journey to a more sustainable future.
To maintain our focus, we have established our company strategy along 
the three pillars of low- or zero-emission power generation, transport of energy and storage as well as reducing our greenhouse gas footprint and energy consumption in industrial processes.Strategic focus
Our Sustainability Program is integrated into our company strategy. The program is structured around topics that help us to contribute to the most relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and be a sustainability leader in the industry.  
The SDGs and their related targets are fostering a new understanding of 
how economic development can be reconciled with social and environ-mental challenges. To ensure our efforts have the biggest impact, we focus our activities on SDG 5, 7, 8, 9 and 13. At the core of our Sustainability Program is the goal to decarbonize energy systems along the entire value chain. With our commitment to responsible operations, we are also leveraging Siemens Energy’s societal impact.
Our first major 
 ESG ratings  results show that we are on track to lead the 
energy transformation. You can find more information on our ambition 
and program in the  Sustainability Report 2021 .
 Our Sustainability Program
We  
energize  
societyDecarbonizing
our business
Responsible
operations• Decarbonized supply chain
• Training & education
• Societal engagement• Cultural transformation•  Climate-neutral own  
operations
• Inclusion & diversity• Human rights
• Compliance & integrity•  Decarbonized products, 
services, and solutions  
for customers
• Product stewardship• Conservation of resources• Occupational health & safety
We focus on building our company based on three strategic pillars:
Low- or zero-emission 
power generationOur strategic pillars
Reducing our greenhouse gas footprint and energy consump-
tion in industrial processesTransport of energy 
and storage
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 6Sustainability performance highlights
Customers and innovation
Innovation is key to creating the future. We value co-creation and 
partner with our customers to decarbonize energy systems.
Innovation is the core of our business. Our simple, fast, and unified approach to research and development (R&D) has three elements:45 
Net Promoter Score (NPS)¹
€ 1.2  billion 
investment in R&DFocus 
We select, prioritize,  
and commit to ideas 
from a strategic 
perspectiveAccelerate 
We accelerate ideas 
to maturity through 
dedicated channelsSustain 
We strive for  
tangible returns and 
measurable value 
creation
¹ Index measuring willingness of customers to recommend a company’s products or services to others.Decarbonization
Climate neutrality  
in our own operations  
by 2030
SGRE: net zero by 2040Decarbonized 
supply chainDecarbonized  
products, services,  
and solutionsOur strategy to decarbonize global energy systems is central to our efforts to be the partner and driver of the energy transition. We accelerate decarbonization along the value chain:
Target reduction  
of relative Scope  
1 + 2 GHG emissions³ 
by 2030:  
46%
² kg CO2e/€ PVO spent, base year 2018; reporting segment GP. ³ from a 2019 base; reporting segment GP.  
⁴ SBTi = Science Based Targets initiative.Target reduction  
of relative Scope 3  
GHG emissions in our  
supply chain by 2030²:  
30%Status 9%
Target reduction  
of SF6 emissions 
compared to 2019:  
60%Status 43%Status 36% Status 9%
Status 76%Commitment  
via SBTi⁴:  
28%  
reduction of GHG from 
the use of sold products  
by 2030³
Target:  
100%  
share of renewable 
electricity by 2023
 See SE Sustainability Report 2021
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 7SF6-free substation of the future
The substation of the future, operated by Netze BW, applies Siemens 
Energy SF6- gas-free and F-gas-free Blue gas-insulated high-voltage switch-
gear (GIS) and will go into operation in southern Germany at the end of 2022. It uses vacuum switching technology and Clean Air as the insulating medium, instead of SF
6 and other F-gases, so is therefore climate-neutral 
in operation. This Blue switchgear is also more cost-effective in its opera-tion and throughout its whole lifecycle, with less maintenance, less report-ing costs according to F-gas regulations, and with no impact on health and 
safety (due to avoidance of F-gases). In Burladingen, Germany, the substa-
tion saves 100% of F-gas-related CO
2 emissions. Siemens Energy currently 
has 50 Blue GIS-bays (substations formed by several bays with connection to energy consumers and power stations) for 145 kV in operation globally, with a further 300 on order in Europe and the US.H2 Orange: teaming up for hydrogen research
Siemens Energy, Duke Energy, and Clemson University have teamed up to study the use of hydrogen for energy storage and as a low- or no-carbon fuel source to produce energy at Duke Energy’s combined heat and power plant located at Clemson University in South Carolina. 
The pilot project, called H2 Orange, was launched in March 2021, and inclu-  
des studies on hydrogen production, storage, and co-firing with natural gas.
The studies will evaluate multiple forms of hydrogen production, including 
green hydrogen, which is created from water and has no byproducts. Hydrogen also has the potential to store larger quantities of energy more efficiently and for longer durations than current lithium-ion battery tech-nology. Read the article here 
.Electrifying Norway’s ferries
The Norwegian transport company Bast. Fosen is a subsidiary of Torghat-ten ASA. The company operates ferry traffic between Horten and Moss and aims to increase its environmental commitment for Norway's busiest ferry route. Siemens Energy Marine has been commissioned to build a new bat-tery-operated ferry and to retrofit two more ferries. With charging options 
on the quayside in Moss and Horten, more than 6 million liters of diesel 
will be saved every year, leading to a 75% reduction in annual CO
2 emis-
sions. For more information see .Our high-voltage switchgear operates climate-neutrally in Burladingen
Leaving diesel behind: electric ferries for Norway’s busiest route
Selected examples for innovation and decarbonization
E-fuel from wind and water
Harnessing the strong winds of the Magellanes in southernmost Chile, the Haru Oni project is the world’s first integrated and commercial large-scale plant to produce climate-neutral e-fuel. The plant converts wind energy, water, and CO₂ captured from the air to produce green hydrogen. This is then further refined to produce e-Methanol, a liquid energy carrier that 
emits about 90% less CO
2 than its fossil counterpart. Siemens Energy will 
work alongside several international companies led by Highly Innovative 
Fuels on the project, which intends to produce over 550 million liters of e-Gasoline by 2026. To explore the full story see 
.Haru Oni: the first large-scale plant to produce e-fuel from green hydrogen
Going full circle with DecomBlades
Launched in 2021, "DecomBlades" is a three-year project that is testing the commercial viability of recycling wind turbine blades using sustainable solutions. The consortium behind the project, of which SGRE is a part, has now been awarded funding from the Innovation Fund Denmark. The proj-ect focuses on three specific processes: the shredding of wind turbine 
blades so that the material can be reused in different products and pro-
cesses; the use of shredded blade material in cement production; and, finally, a method to separate the composite material under high tempera-tures, also known as pyrolysis. For more information see 
.
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 8² Excluding construction and other waste. ¹ Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 200,000/work hours performed.Occupational health & safety 
Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, 
partners, contractors, and suppliers is our utmost priority.
0.49 
Total Recordable Incident  
Rate (TRIR) of employees¹Product stewardship
Our approach to product stewardship includes all environmental aspects with a strong focus on climate change adaptation and resource efficiency.
71% 
coverage of  
portfolio by life cycle 
assessments   
(LCA)Conservation of resources
We aim to minimize our impact on the environment. Our environmental management systems are founded on the principles and elements of the international ISO 14001 and 50001 standards or energy audits.
4.10  million m3 
water consumption82% 
share of recycling²Zero Harm Framework
We promote a strong Zero Harm culture that aims to prevent injuries to people and adverse effects to health and the environment.
4 
Principles6 
Behaviors8 
Essentials
 See SE Sustainability Report 2021Sustainability performance highlights
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 9Working toward zero waste
At Siemens Energy, we are working toward zero waste to landfill through 
the reduction of our material use and using circular economy approaches. 
In the UK, two Siemens Energy projects collaborated to reuse and recycle 
stone for their construction sites. Around 8,768 metric tons of stone, 
enough to fill almost three Olympic-sized swimming pools, previously used 
to build a temporary access road and site accommodation for the Triton Knoll onshore substation works, was moved to the neighbouring National Grid Viking Link interconnector project. The initiative saved more than 58 metric tons of CO
2 in total, the equivalent of the CO2 generated by heating 
20 homes for one year.
In Brazil, the environmental team has been working to reduce material 
waste through environmental education, innovation, and use of renew -
able waste disposal technologies. These include industrial biodigesters such as those installed at the Jundiaí and Santa Bárbara D’Oeste’s cafete-rias in August 2021. The biodigesters turn organic waste into sewage, reducing around 5 tons of waste a month. Through all our efforts, we ensured that 86% of the waste generated at our Brazilian sites in 2021 were sent to recycling facilities; by the end of 2022, we want to achieve the landfill-free target.
In the US, the Siemens Energy facility in Rural Hall met its goal that no 
solid or hazardous waste should be directly disposed of in landfill. Today 
some 80-90% of the facility’s waste by weight is recycled and repurposed into another product. At the Orlando campus of Siemens Energy, the exter -
nal building management company CBRE and the internal GREEN Employee Resource Group have collaborated on acquiring a vendor to compost the cafeteria’s food preparation scraps. The organic waste is collected once a week and composted off-site. Read the full story here 
.Measuring footprints with the EcoTransparency app
The energy transition and the focus on providing sustainable energy solu-tions will be a key issue over the coming years. One of the biggest chal-lenges for all players in the energy sector will be to accurately project, ana-lyze, and improve environmental footprints. This is not only essential for reducing environmental impact but also in providing transparent data for 
sustainable finance reporting.
Our EcoTransparency app, which was launched in September 2021, was 
developed for just this purpose. The app enables the Siemens Energy Sales, Product Management as well as R&D departments to calculate product- and project-specific greenhouse gas footprints under varying scenarios. Adjust-able parameters can include load scenarios, material selection, or trans-port, among others. With these calculations we aim to add another layer of transparency to our established life cycle assessments (LCA). The app is 
based on existing LCA models and provides customers and stakeholders 
with additional information regarding specific footprints and thus enables them to meet reduction targets for all environmental impact categories.
The application will be further developed in cooperation with various 
industrial partners and research institutes. It shall enable the evaluation of the circular economy aspects of the German energy transition, such as the comparison of impacts during recycling versus end-of-life and be the foun-dation for meeting future requirements for calculating environmental foot-
prints. 
Celebrating Safety and Health at Work
On April 28, 2021, Siemens Energy joined the global community to cele-
brate World Day for Safety and Health at Work. The day was initiated by the International Labour Organization in 2003 to promote the prevention of occupational accidents around the world. Here at Siemens Energy, this is an opportunity to talk about the importance of safety issues and of creat-
ing a culture that reduces work-related injuries, diseases, and deaths. To 
mark the day, local Siemens Energy News Yammer groups and offices shared their special celebrations using the hashtag #SafetyAndHealth. The Berlin team, for example, designed a 15-minute "Body & Soul" session to energize co-workers on their break.The stone used at the onshore Triton Knoll substation will be transported to the adjacent 
National Grid Viking Link interconnector project
Selected examples of responsible operations
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 10Societal engagement
Our global engagement addresses needs in 
the countries in which we operate.
€ 4.71  million 
total donations
¹ At reporting segment GP.Compliance & integrity
Our company-wide zero-tolerance approach aims to ensure a strong culture of business ethics and compliance.
Our Business Conduct 
Guidelines are binding 
for all executives and 
employees worldwide83%  
of employees 
trained on our 
Business Conduct 
GuidelinesWorking at Siemens Energy
Our People Agenda promotes a thriving environment, game-changing leaders, 
and a vibrant workforce.
All employees  
19.3%Share of females
Training hours
8.6 
Total average training hours per employeein top leader- 
ship positions¹  
21%Our target top leadership positions by 2025 
25%by 2030 
30%Sustainable supply chain management
We apply stringent environmental and social standards to contribute to a 
sustainable supply chain.
€ 17.3  billion 
procurement volume23%  
increase in supplier 
self-assessments162%  
increase in external 
sustainability  
audits
Human rights
We are committed to ensuring respect for human rights along the value chain within our sphere of influence.
We conduct human rights due 
diligence for our customer projects
 See SE Sustainability Report 2021Sustainability performance highlights
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 11The Siemens Energy Passion for Energy Award
In May 2021, we introduced our new GP award program, the Passion for 
Energy Award, to celebrate our best and brightest employees who exem-plify the Siemens Energy values, behaviors, and spirit of innovation. The Passion for Energy Award program honors projects and initiatives that drive the success of our company and ensures that everyone’s contribu-
tions at Siemens Energy are seen, valued, and celebrated. Employees from 
around the world participated and, 651 projects or initiatives were sub-mitted.Honoring those that share Siemens Energy’s spirit of innovation
Girls with Energy Hackathon
In August 2021, GP hosted the inaugural Girls with Energy Hackathon in Mexico. Seventy girls aged between 12–18 years were invited, most of whom were daughters of Siemens Energy employees, stakeholders, or cus-tomers. The goal was to develop a product or service related to energy in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) using learning 
games such as Kahoot and Skribbl. In the lead-up to the event, we held 
workshops on energy and climate, design thinking, Canvas, and present-ing an elevator pitch. Female GP employees acted as mentors and judges.
In the UK, GP has partnered with Stemettes, an award-winning social 
enterprise working across the UK and Ireland to inspire and support young women and nonbinary people to study STEM subjects. On International Women’s Day in February 2021, we hosted a panel session to inform attendees about career options in STEM areas. A second event was held in 
March with attendees working collaboratively to develop an app to solve a 
sustainability problem. The events were supported by 21 volunteers from GP. Read the full article here 
.Honoring those that share Siemens Energy’s spirit of innovation
Repowering a city in need
In August 2021 record rainstorms lashed Zhengzhou, one of the largest cit-ies in central China, claiming lives and forcing people to relocate. Upon learning about the catastrophe, GP factories were quick to lend their sup-port to the local power company. Within 36 hours, Siemens Transformer (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. had mobilized a fast-response team and delivered a 
110kV mobile substation to help the city restore power.
In Zhengzhou: the green mobile substation equipped with a Sensformer™ filled with  
natural ester oil ready for operation
A compliance roadmap for Iraq
In June 2021, employees of the Siemens Energy Middle East Legal and 
Compliance department provided officials from the Ministry of Electricity in Iraq with training in anti-corruption. The training covered the historical development of anti-corruption, global anti-corruption measures, cases, and practical exercises. The training was well received by the participants 
and the objective is for them to further train other officials.Selected examples of responsible operations
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2021Page 12Performance indicator Unit 2021 2020
Greenhouse gas emissions
Scope 1+2 emissions
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e  273  292 
thereof SF6 1,000  metric tons CO2 e  41  66 
thereof fleet 1,000  metric tons CO2 e  29  29 
Scope 3 downstream emissions¹
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e  1,369,163 927,476
intensity metric tons CO2 e/ 
€ order intake 0.041  0.027 
Scope 3 upstream emissions²
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e  4,761  4,722 
intensity kg CO2 e/€ PVO spent  0.473  0.476 
Energy
Energy consumption million gigajoule  6.33  5.80 
Share of green electricity %  76  78 Performance indicator Unit 2021 2020
Research & development
Research & development expenses million € 1,155 985
Sustainable supply chain managementExternal sustainability audits at suppliers no.  157  60 
Waste
Waste recycling and recovery rate %  82  78 
Water
Water consumption million cubic meters 4.10  3.23 
Product stewardshipPortfolio coverage by Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) %  71 –
EmployeesShare of women in overall workforce %  19.3  19.1 
Share of women in top leadership positions
3%  21  21 
Training hours per employee no.  8.6 –
Occupational health and safetyTotal Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of employees no.  0.49 – 
Societal engagement
Donations million €  4.71  5.44 Decarbonizing our business Responsible operationsOur sustainability performance 
1 Includes category “use of sold products” only.
2 Includes categories “purchased goods and services“ and “transportation and distribution” only. Without SGRE.3 Without SGRE.
 siemens-energy.com
 twitter.com/siemens_energy
 linkedin.com/siemens-energy
For the full sustainability report see:  
 www.siemens-energy.com/sustainability-report-2021
Published by
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com  
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com  
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
siemens-energy.com/sustainability  
© Siemens Energy, 2022
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.