Non-financial report
Getting
Started
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
2A. Basis of Preparation
Basis of preparationThis non-financial report of Siemens Energy Group 
(“Siemens Energy”) with its parent company Siemens Energy AG, 
headquartered in Munich, is prepared in accordance with paragraph 
315b to 315c GCC (German Commercial Code; “Handelsgesetzbuch”) in 
conjunction with paragraph 289c to 289e GCC and the specifying 
reporting requirements of GAS 20 (German Accounting Standard; 
“Deutscher Rechnungslegungs Standard”). 
In May 2019, Siemens AG announced its plan to spin-off its Gas and 
Power business with a subsequent public listing, including the transfer 
of Siemens AG’s shareholding in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy 
(SGRE), Spain. After completion of carve-out procedures, the approval 
of the spin-off by the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting in July 2020 
and successful listing end of September 2020, Siemens Energy AG and 
consequently the whole Group became an independent business. Given 
the above restructuring and the underlying timeline, part of the 
reported contents within this non-financial report take reference to 
targets, measures and performance measures designed, implemented 
and monitored by the former parent company, Siemens AG. Such 
references and interdependencies are clearly indicated throughout this 
document.
The reportable aspects environmental, employee and social matters, 
human rights protection as well as anti-corruption and bribery 
matters represent cornerstones of the Group’s comprehensive 
Sustainability Program, led by our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), Dr. 
Christian Bruch, who also holds the role of the Group’s CEO. Our 
Sustainability Department is responsible for driving sustainability within 
Siemens Energy Group and for steering the company-wide 
sustainability activities, programs and measures. It is part of the 
Strategy Function. This includes a close coordination with our segments 
Gas and Power (“GP”) and SGRE. Whereas the approach to the 
reportable aspects is aligned throughout the Group as a whole, any 
company-specific characteristics are highlighted as such, if material in 
accordance with paragraph 315c in conjunction with paragraph 289c 
section 3 GCC.This non-financial report is designed to provide for a concise and 
focused summary of our targets, implemented measures and 
monitoring of target achievements based on suitable performance 
indicators. This intention requires to abstract from other reporting 
frameworks like the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standards for 
sustainability reporting or the structural orientation towards the UN 
Global Compact or the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Without 
limiting the informative coherence and compliance with legal 
requirements for this non-financial report according to the GCC, we 
refer to our separate Sustainability Report (www.siemens-
energy.com/sustainability-report).
The reportable contents presented in this non-financial report and 
subsumed under the reportable aspects are identified based on the 
Group’s materiality assessment in fiscal year 2020 in accordance with 
paragraph 315c section 2 GCC. Therefore, this report concentrates on 
those topics that are relevant for an understanding of the Group’s 
development, financial performance and position, and our operational 
activities impacting the reportable aspects. We did not identify any risks 
associated with our business activities, relationships and offerings that 
very likely may have or have severe adverse impacts on the reportable 
aspects.
Siemens Energy is active along almost the entire energy technology and 
service value chain with a comprehensive and differentiated products, 
solutions and services offering. A detailed description of our business 
model is included in chapter A.1.1.2 Business Model of our combined 
management report, being part of the Annual Report for fiscal year 
2020. With the exception of this cross-reference, any referrals to non-
mandatory information presented outside this report do not form part 
of the non-financial report. The non-financial report was subject to a 
voluntary limited assurance engagement according to ISAE 3000 
(revised) – Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits Or Review Of 
Historical Financial Information. The Independent Auditor’s Limited 
Assurance Report is reproduced in chapter C.
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
3B. Reportable aspects
B.1 Environmental matters
Global energy markets are changing, presenting our customers with a 
multitude of structural changes throughout the energy value chain – 
whether due to the need for decarbonization, increasing 
decentralization as well as digitalization and because of the resulting 
demands on their flexibility. 
Many of our customers are confronted with long-term, disruptive 
changes in their business models. The trend away from regulated, 
centralized markets toward market-oriented, decentralized structures is 
accompanied by growing public and regulatory pressure to reduce 
greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions, which will lead to widespread 
decarbonization of the energy landscape in the coming decades. 
This will bring about long-term changes in the relevance of traditional 
energy technologies but will also create opportunities in new areas of 
business, such as increased electrification, renewables, hydrogen 
technologies and Power-to-X technologies. Our mission is to support 
our customers in transitioning to a more sustainable world, by 
providing a sustainable, affordable and reliable energy supply, based on 
our innovative technologies and our project execution capabilities. 
This is enabled by our portfolio along the energy value chain – from 
products, services and solutions for the process industries sector, oil 
and gas sector, to conventional and renewable energy generation, 
energy transmission and decentralized energy solutions – together with 
our increased customer orientation.
For a successful transition, interim solutions will be required. The shift 
from coal to natural gas could be one such interim solution on the way 
towards a sustainable energy landscape. Combining conventional and 
renewable energy systems is key to meeting the world’s need for 
sustainable, reliable and affordable energy. Green hydrogen will also 
play a major role in our future energy mix.
Targets
We are committed to accompanying our customers on their way to a 
more sustainable energy future. We are driving decarbonization along 
the entire value chain: from the supply chain to our own operations, 
and especially in our portfolio. In doing so, we aim to be the partner of 
choice for our customers and to support them in their transition to a 
sustainable energy world.
At the same time, we are working diligently on climate neutrality in 
our own operations and intend to be climate neutral by 2030. SGRE 
achieved carbon neutrality at the end of fiscal year 2019, including 
offsetting of unavoided emissions. It expanded its ambitions by 
incorporating the net-zero emissions target by 2050. 
In order to advance carbon neutrality across the entire value chain, we 
are also working on concepts to reduce CO2 emissions in the supply 
chain. As an important part of the value chain, we encourage our 
suppliers to take action to protect the climate. Carbon reduction is 
already part of our suppliers’ supply chain management and we 
therefore continue to encourage them to increase their efforts.Measures
Our biggest lever to reduce GHG emissions are our products, solutions 
and services. Focusing on our customers and their business challenges 
not only allows us to seize business opportunities, expand existing 
business and develop new business but also leads to ongoing progress 
towards decarbonization. In particular, this applies to value chains in 
the energy industry, but also in other sectors such as industry and 
transportation. Drawing on our broad technology and solutions 
expertise, we aim to make a significant contribution to the energy 
transition. With our new market- and customer-oriented organization 
as well as key account management (KAM) we are adapting to 
customer needs and ensuring customer proximity. This also leads to an 
increased focus on co-creation and partnering for innovation. One 
example is the Werner-von-Siemens Centre for Industry and Science 
e.V. (WvSC), of which Siemens Energy is a key partner. WvSC is a 
dynamic research and development collaboration involving more than 
20 partners from industry and science, small and medium-sized 
enterprises, young companies and start-ups. It addresses important 
topics of the future such as the energy transformation, mobility and 
production technology. The WvSC allows co-located collaboration to 
speed up innovation in the focus areas addressed.
Our research and development (R&D) activities are aimed at 
developing innovative, sustainable solutions both for our customers 
and for our business. Therefore, we will continue to invest 
approximately € 1 billion per year in R&D to maintain our innovative 
edge with an emphasis on sustainability. In addition to renewable 
energy in SGRE, we have identified five areas of action called Energy of 
Tomorrow (EoT) Fields of Action for Gas and Power to form the basis of 
Siemens Energy’s portfolio transformation and to becoming a 
sustainability leader in the industry. 
Across all businesses, digitalization facilitates new and promising 
approaches for new ways of working, for example technology-based 
services such as remote operations or remote services, resulting not 
only in better performance throughout product and equipment life 
cycles but also more efficient operation with lower emissions.
In the demanding energy market for CO2-free power generation, 
continuous investment in R&D allows SGRE to optimize its 
competitiveness and supply the customer with superior turbine 
technologies for on- and offshore applications. SGRE’s R&D efforts focus 
on developing the next generation of technology that will lead to 
improved and more cost-effective products, solutions and services. To 
accomplish that goal, SGRE is developing reliable and efficient 
operating wind turbines, cost-effective energy storage solutions, and 
solutions for hybridization that are designed to help utility customers 
optimize the use of renewable energy, thereby increasing profitability. 
Product improvements (upgrades) and product innovation (new 
design) of onshore and offshore wind turbines are launched to suit our 
customers situation and reduce Levelized Cost of Energy (LCoE) or 
increase annual energy production. Another focus area is digitalization: 
Advances in this field enable more intelligent monitoring and analyses 
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
4of turbine conditions as well as smart diagnostic services. SGRE also 
explores profitable opportunities in adjacent business fields, including 
other renewable sources, hybrid parks and storage in order to supply 
solutions for the system integration of renewables.
Activities and customer offerings that support decarbonization are 
clustered in three areas: Efficiency increase, Fuel shift / Hybridization 
and Full decarbonization.
• Efficiency increase: Products, services, solutions and technologies 
that improve the efficiency of conventional products and reduce 
GHG emissions
• Fuel shift / Hybridization: Products, services, solutions and 
technologies that support the transition from fossil-based to 
alternative fuels or that combine conventional and renewable 
sources of generation to reduce GHG emissions
• Full decarbonization: Products, services, solutions and technologies 
for energy generation in different industries and sectors, which 
substantially reduce GHG emissions to zero or negative emissions. 
The majority stake in SGRE is an important step toward a climate 
neutral portfolio. SGRE offers one of the industry’s broadest wind 
power product portfolios, with both offshore and onshore 
technology as well as industry-leading service solutions. The 
installed products and technology have a total capacity base of more 
than 100 GW.
In addition to our action areas Siemens AG established the 
Environmental Portfolio (“EP”) already in 2007. It includes portfolio 
elements that make a contribution to energy efficiency and CO2 
reduction. Products, systems, solutions and services (known as 
“Environmental Portfolio elements”) must meet one of the following 
criteria to qualify for inclusion: 
•an increase in energy efficiency of 20% or more; or
•a reduction in emissions of at least 100,000 metric tons of CO2 or 
other GHG per reporting period in the use phase at our customers 
versus a reference solution (baseline); or
•technologies for use of renewables.
These EP elements reduce the emission of CO₂ at our customers. The 
reduction is measured by carrying out comparisons with baselines and 
includes the option of a before/after comparison, a direct comparison 
with a reference technology and a comparison with the installed base. 
The EP helps customers not only to cut their CO₂ emissions and reduce 
their energy costs, but also to increase their financial benefits thanks to 
higher productivity and asset performance.
We have launched our Climate Neutral Program and aim to be climate 
neutral by 2030. In the program, we push for the reduction of emissions 
by various measures, including division targets. The strongest levers to 
achieve climate neutrality by 2030 are: 
• Reducing energy consumption: Energy efficiency projects at our 
own locations, including installation of LED lighting (dimmers, 
motion sensors), installation of smart meters to increase 
transparency, building automation systems (e.g., heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning).
• Using renewable electricity: 100% of Siemens Energy’s global 
electricity consumption shall be met by power from renewable 
sources by 2023.
• New mobility concepts: We want to significantly reduce our vehicle 
fleet’s emissions and the related fuel costs. The details of an 
appropriate car policy are currently being worked out. SGRE also 
implements local country specific mobility and transportation 
policies, thereby ensuring that e-mobility is the preferred option for internal transportation and promoting the transition of service 
vehicles to electric drives.
In 2020, we initiated a Carbon Reduction@Suppliers pilot project, 
cooperating with an external service provider who had worked with 
Siemens AG to develop an economic model that identifies the CO2 
footprint of all suppliers. Based on this model, Siemens Energy 
encouraged 35 global focus suppliers to share their implemented and 
planned CO2 reduction measures. 80% of the suppliers we surveyed 
responded to our Carbon Web Assessment. This confirms their 
awareness of and interest in the matter, as they outline CO2 reduction 
measures already implemented and further plans for the upcoming 
years. After analyzing the data and methodology and evaluating the 
lessons learned, we plan to further develop our approach to reduce 
emissions in collaboration with our suppliers.
SGRE plans to engage more with key suppliers to encourage them to 
reduce their Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions related to products and 
services they supply to SGRE. It has sharpened its focus on sustainable 
business practices in supplier selection and performance management, 
for example urging logistics companies, in particular marine and 
terrestrial companies, to move away from fossil fuels in their activities.
Performance indicators
Environmental Portfolio
The contribution of our EP to an accelerated decarbonization can be 
summarized as follows:
Results of the Environmental Portfolio1FY 2020 FY 2019
Revenue generated from the Siemens Energy 
Environmental Portfolio (in € billion)19.3 20.1
Reduction in annual GHG emissions at our customers 
due to new elements of the Siemens Energy 
Environmental Portfolio installed in the reporting 
period (in millions of metric tons)35 40
Cumulative reduction in annual GHG emissions at our 
customers due to elements of the Siemens Energy 
Environmental Portfolio in the reporting period (in 
millions of metric tons)522 493
1 As there are currently no accepted international standards addressing the identification and reporting of 
“green products”, we report the revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the cumulative annual customer 
reductions in carbon dioxide emissions generated by it in accordance with internal regulations defined in our 
Environmental Portfolio Guideline. This Guideline sets out criteria and processes for the qualification of 
elements for the Environmental Portfolio, defines roles and responsibilities as well as processes to account for 
annual customer reductions in carbon dioxide emissions and refers to financial reporting guidelines on revenue 
recognition. As a result, these figures may not be comparable with the data published under the same or similar 
designations by other companies. For a detailed description of our methodology, we refer to the Annex of our 
separate Sustainability Report.
Own Operations
We monitor energy consumption at our office locations and 
manufacturing facilities. It is calculated by adding the primary and 
secondary consumption of fuels and electricity and enables us to track 
the success of our climate neutral program.
Siemens Energy’s total energy consumption during the reporting period 
was 5.8 million gigajoules. Compared with fiscal year 2019, this is a 
reduction of 16,6%.
Over the reporting period, Siemens Energy collected the following data 
regarding the level of scope 1 and 2 emissions related to its business 
activities.
• Scope 1 (direct) emissions: Direct GHG arise from sources in the 
company’s ownership or under its control.
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
5• Scope 2 (indirect) emissions: Indirect GHG refer to the 
consumption of purchased electrical energy and district heating.
Scope 1 and 2 Emissions
(1,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent) FY 2020 FY 2019
Scope 1 221 266
Scope 2171 175
Total 292 440
1 We calculate our emissions resulting from electrical consumption based on carbon emission factors of our 
local sites according to the market-based approach.
In fiscal 2020, our share of green electricity was 78% and we aim to 
achieve 100% by 2023.
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
6B.2 Employee matters
Our vision is to become the most valued energy technology company 
in the world. To achieve this goal, we will create a culture within our 
company which is based on our four values (responsible, agile, 
respectful, caring). We strive for a diverse workforce and ensure that 
we develop our current employees and attract the best future talents. 
As a truly global player, people from 138 nationalities work in our 
company. The global reach with direct access to local expertise and 
market understanding is an asset with competitive advantages which 
we continuously develop for our customers, employees and 
shareholders world-wide. Our strategy and operating model are aimed 
at transforming our business, and our people are the ones who make it 
real. Our culture transformation program builds on our values and 
behaviors. 
At Siemens Energy
• inclusion and diversity are key to our culture of openness and 
innovation, 
•we aim to transform to a future-fit learning organization,
•and we prioritize the health and safety of our people.
For our reporting segment Gas and Power, the People Agenda, 
designed in May 2020, will help achieve our business priorities. With 
tailored programs and actions along three pillars we aim to enable Gas 
and Power to excel through our people: Vibrant workforce, game-
changing leaders, and thriving environment. 
Our reporting segment SGRE’s purpose is “Empower people to lead 
the future". It goes beyond selling and delivering to customers, it is 
what drives the business strategy, the way the company is organized, 
how decisions are made, who is hired, and how the company and 
employees grow. Therefore, SGRE established the “Culture of Trust 
program” to ensure and support the development of a shared company 
culture across the group. It is based on three pillars: continuous 
learning, empowerment and diversity.
Targets
Inclusion and Diversity
At Siemens Energy, we strive to create safe, attractive workplaces with 
cultures that encourage equality and belonging in the whole 
organization. With our focus on inclusion and diversity, we aim to
•have access to broader talent pools from which to source diverse 
capabilities we need to power our innovation
•bring together different experiences and perspectives to solve the 
complex challenges of our industry
•be more productive through faster, better quality decisions with less 
cognitive bias or group think
•enhance our reputation while being representatives of the 
communities we serve
We have already started to foster long term gender balance in our 
talent pools and going forward, our focus will also be on: 
• Equal opportunity - use open and transparent processes to attract, 
promote, develop and retain people with different skills, abilities and 
ideas • Belonging - create an inclusive culture where people feel respected, 
engaged, able to speak up and be themselves 
• Society and partnership - work together with customers and 
partners to support us and our industry to become more diverse and 
inclusive
Our reporting segment Gas and Power aims to reach a share of 25% 
women in top leadership functions by September 30, 2025 and a share 
of 30% women in top leadership functions by September 30, 2030. 
Our reporting segment SGRE aims to reach a share of 25% women in 
headcount by September 30, 2025 and a share of 25% women in 
management positions by September 30, 2025.
Training and Learning
We aspire to transform to an agile learning organization where 
individuals, teams and organizational units will have access to digital, 
real-time and personalized state of the art learning offerings. The 
opportunity to learn and grow is a core component of the Employee 
Experience. Learners own their learning and we support them in their 
learning journey. 
Health and Safety
Siemens Energy’s key objective is to provide a safe and healthy 
working environment for all employees, partners, contractors and 
suppliers. We want our employees to be able to work in a safe 
environment that promotes health, and we focus all our attention on 
avoiding accidents and occupational illnesses. Our goal is zero 
occupational accidents.
To support our health and safety policy, the ISO 45001 standard 
provides guidance so that international and local regulation, laws, 
standards and practices that govern health and safety are observed and 
complied with wherever Siemens Energy operates. The standard sets a 
framework for the deployment of effective management systems, 
identification of potential risks and hazards, management of non-
conformities, opportunities for improvement as well as internal audit 
and review. It also provides guidance on safe and healthy workplaces 
contributing to the prevention and reduction of work-related injuries 
and ill health. In the reporting period, one of Siemens AG’s objectives 
was to have all Operational Health and Safety (OHS) management 
systems within the business certified to ISO 45001. Siemens Energy has 
the same operational objective and all business units will be expected 
to review and update their local integrated management systems and 
current certifications.
Measures
Inclusion and Diversity
Our activities contribute to the promotion of diversity, equality and 
inclusion. Some examples for our activities in fiscal year 2020 are: 
•Under the umbrella of a family-friendly corporate policy, Gas and 
Power employees in Germany can avail themselves of a range of 
opportunities to tailor their working times and place of work to their 
needs, for example, part-time and mobile working, and to have the 
flexibility to care for children or sick relatives.
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
7•We advocate equal opportunity for people with disabilities, their 
inclusion in society and the workplace, and their self-determined 
participation and right to be treated with respect. In Germany, for 
example, Siemens AG has concluded an inclusion agreement on this 
matter with the employee representatives that is also applicable to 
Gas and Power. We work to achieve a barrier-free work environment 
so that workplaces are accessible to people with disabilities. This is 
something we also intend to facilitate outside Germany with IT 
applications, barrier-free, accessible communication, and training 
seminars.
•Gas and Power is an active member of the Society of Women 
Engineers (SWE) Corporate Partner Council in the US. As an official 
member, we promote opportunities for women in the engineering 
and technology workforce, share best practices by supporting the 
annual conference such as the last one in November 2019, address 
retention and advancement issues, and partner on diversity 
initiatives with other local organizations. 
To ensure impactful implementation, we have developed a Global 
Inclusion and Diversity dashboard for Gas and Power to measure our 
progress. It includes KPIs covering multivariant diversity such as share 
of women and minorities in management and hiring, number of 
employee networks of all dimensions of inclusion and the “SE Voices” 
employee survey results. It has been initiated to be regularly reported 
to the Chief Diversity Officer (CIDO), a role established on board level, 
and relevant management groups.
SGRE’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy sets the framework and the 
principles that are common to all the group’s companies, in the 
different countries where the Company operates. The purpose of this 
policy is to promote equal opportunity, diversity, inclusion, equality and 
dignity in the Company’s culture in general, and in all the Company’s 
policies and practices of selection, hiring, remuneration, training, 
promotion and termination. SGRE was included in 2020 Bloomberg 
Gender-Equality Index. This global index tracks the financial 
performance of public companies committed to supporting gender 
equality through policy development, representation, and 
transparency. SGRE is one of the 140 companies that are signatories of 
the initiative “Mas mujeres, mejores empresas” promoted by the 
Ministry of Equality of the Spanish Government. With this initiative the 
company declares its commitment to promote an equal participation of 
women and men in the company’s board of directors, and the adoption 
of measures to increase the female representation in the leadership 
positions and the executive committees in four years.
 
Training and Learning
In fiscal year 2020, Gas and Power employees had unrestricted access 
to further education programs of Siemens AG covering a broad 
interdisciplinary field of activities as well as to our complementary 
product academies, such as the Power Academy. For the future, a 
dedicated learning platform for company-wide access to learning 
opportunities was created. 
SGRE employees had access to separate training courses and 
continuous learning opportunities offered by SGRE's own learning units 
such as the Wind Academy. Their learning services provide 
consultancy, tools and delivery of different activities throughout the 
business.
Health and Safety
At Siemens Energy, we have implemented mandatory behaviors, such 
as “no calls while driving” or “stopping unsafe behavior”. By giving clear guidance and having the authority to act on all levels, we drive 
ownership and accountability across our company. At the same time, 
we put a special focus on our managers. During regular “eye on safety” 
reviews, we share actual cases, learnings and preventive measures with 
the operational management to ensure a high level of awareness and 
sharpen competencies. 
At Siemens Energy, we are fully committed to protecting not only our 
employees, but also our customers, contractors and suppliers from 
any potential risk of harm that could be caused by our activities. To 
support this objective, we place emphasis on the health and safety 
standards in our supplier qualification process, share our health and 
safety principles before we sign a contract and monitor our supplier 
safety performance, which serves as feedback to our suppliers. Also, our 
customers and contractors are involved in various local and site-specific 
health and safety activities.
Siemens Energy continued to support Siemens AG’s “Zero Harm Culture 
at Siemens” program throughout the last fiscal year which focuses on 
health and safety cultural development and has now developed its 
own zero-harm principles and minimum behaviors that Siemens Energy 
expects from its employees and other stakeholders, such as:
• Risk assessment – Emphasizing the need for effective risk 
assessment and control. 
• STOP! - Empowering employees and other stakeholders to stop a 
work activity due to an unsafe action or unsafe conditions.
• Incident management - Reporting all incidents and near misses. 
Identifying causes and actions to prevent reoccurrence. We will not 
leave any incident unreported or unaddressed.
• Driving – Operating and driving vehicles safely and responsibly. 
• Health – Being physically and mentally ready to perform our 
assigned tasks. 
• Environment - Reducing the environmental impacts of our work 
activities and establishing opportunities to protect the environment 
and resources.
To support the fundamental requirements for good OHS, we have 
established a health and safety policy that aligns with our zero-harm 
principles and behaviors demonstrating:
•Strong leadership, ownership and commitment,
•Promotion of good health and safety conduct,
•Commitment to continuous improvement,
•Hazard identification, risk assessment and prevention,
•Compliance with principles, standards and behaviors.
In fiscal year 2020, Siemens AG completed a series of OHS audits 
related to high-risk activities and, both internally and externally, 
inspections were conducted at country and organization level to 
establish the effectiveness of safety risk management at 
manufacturing, service and project sites, including activities and sites 
that now form part of Siemens Energy. Although many sites 
demonstrated robust and effective safety controls, others fell 
significantly below expectations and revealed the need for decisive 
corrective action and continuous improvement.
Siemens Energy will continue with a robust approach to OHS auditing 
that is based on the current practices deployed throughout Siemens AG. 
Occupational Health and Safety audits and their results will continue to 
be quantified, providing details for the effective implementation of 
optimization measures, lessons learned and continuous improvement 
recommendations.
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
8SGRE also works hard to instill a strong safety and zero-harm culture 
across the entire business and has launched initiatives to foster and 
promote a zero-harm culture, including: 
•“Safety is My Choice,” which aims to bring focus to individual 
behaviors by reminding employees of their own role and 
responsibility in safety at work as a key success.
•Ten life-saving rules, introduced globally, are intended to raise 
awareness of safety hazards through incidents and to avoid 
reoccurrence. They include: permit to work, energy isolation, safety 
guards, driving safety, vehicle movements, suspended loads, drugs 
and alcohol, working at height, use of personal protective 
equipment and tools and dropped objects.
•“LeadSafe” aims to enable the organization to accelerate its progress 
towards zero accidents and injuries by focusing on raising risk 
awareness throughout the company, building leadership skills 
related to safety management and improving the safety of our 
engineering processes.
Performance indicators
Inclusion and Diversity
Our reporting segment Gas and Power reached a share of 21% women 
in top leadership functions by September 30, 2020. 
Our reporting segment SGRE reached a share of 19% women in 
headcount by September 30, 2020 and a share of 12% women in 
management positions by September 30, 2020.
Training and Learning
In fiscal year 2020 Siemens Energy spent around €60 million on further 
education (FY19: € ~70 million), an average of €654 per employee 
(FY19: €795).
Health and Safety
The overall Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate1 (LTIFR) for employees2 was 
0.27 at the end of the fiscal year 2020 (FY19: 0.31) and is based on the 
total number of lost time injuries per 200,000 hours worked.
During the reporting period, Siemens Energy regrettably had five work-
related fatal accidents (FY19: two)3. One fatal accident was related to 
underwater diving and cleaning of dosing line of water intake pipe and 
involved a contractor. One accident was related to fatal injuries from 
electric shock and involved a SGRE employee. Three fatal accidents 
involved SGRE subcontractors and were related to preparational work, 
lifting operations and falling from a platform during concrete tower 
assembly. Each serious event or fatal accident causes grief for families, 
friends and colleagues, and as a company we will investigate, assess 
and derive measures that will prevent such accidents from happening 
again.
1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: Number of Lost Time Injuries (LTI) x 200 000/work hours performed. LTIs 
are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work
2 Incl. temporary workers; excl. contractors
3 Excluding cases beyond Siemens Energy’s influence. e.g. force majeure, third party violence or outside of 
Siemens Energy scope of responsibility
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
9B.3 Social matters
Societal engagement has been embedded in our DNA since Werner von 
Siemens founded the company in 1847 and will continue to be of 
relevance for Siemens Energy in the future. For us, societal 
engagement is not only a charitable endeavor; it creates value, is a 
source of opportunity and provides a competitive advantage.
We are currently establishing a new societal engagement approach for 
Siemens Energy that will be rolled out globally in the months to come. 
For this, we have analyzed the donations of past years to get an 
understanding of the contributions to communities worldwide and 
defined three focus areas on the basis of our strategic context, core 
competencies, the global targets for sustainable development, global 
megatrends (demographics, urbanization, climate change, 
globalization and digitalization) and stakeholder dialog. 
SGRE has put in place a social commitment strategy that focusses on 
the company’s social commitment with the aim of reducing poverty, 
fighting climate change and promoting Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education in our communities. 
The approach is underpinned by the Social Commitment Policy and 
forms part of a long-term strategy aligned with the UN SDGs.
Targets
Our approach combines a global framework with selected local 
activities in the countries in which we operate. The objective of the new 
approach is to 
•Enhance relationships with customers and partners
•Boost employee engagement
•Generate awareness of our brand and 
•Support the company’s competitive context
In order to focus our activities and increase our impact, we have 
developed a framework with our three focus areas that allows for global 
consolidation but also local autonomy: 
• Driving the Energy Transition – Support sustainable energy 
research and development 
• Access to Education – Promote STEM subjects and climate 
education (especially for underrepresented demographics) 
• Sustaining Communities – Disaster recovery (especially related to 
electricity supply) 
The tools to monitor the implementation of the approach will be 
developed with a focus on keeping them as lean and easily useable as 
possible.
Measures
Siemens Energy contributes to societal development all over the world 
through a range of projects that play well into the newly defined focus 
areas: 
Driving the Energy Transition − Public energy infrastructure is one of 
the most important prerequisites for the sustainable development of 
societies. This is especially true for countries where not all citizens have 
access to a reliable, sustainable and affordable power supply. We 
draw on our core competencies and portfolio offerings in order to help 
rural areas get better access to basic infrastructure. In the future, we will mainly focus on shaping the energy transition by supporting 
projects on decarbonization, access to energy and systemic change.
Access to Education – We work to extend educational opportunities to 
more people and improve research, especially in STEM subjects. 
Siemens Energy leverages its competencies to spark interest in STEM 
subjects, reduce skills gaps and match industry requirements, creating 
industry-ready youth.
Sustaining Communities – Access to basic provisions is essential for 
sustaining communities. Our community-related activities focus on 
serving local needs and include immediate relief and rehabilitation 
support in the wake of disasters as well as various initiatives increasing 
the well-being of communities by targeting the inclusion of 
underserved members and equal opportunities for all.
In FY20, examples for our activities are our engagement as response to 
the global COVID-19 pandemic, relief and rehabilitation support in the 
wake of disasters such as the tragic accident in Beirut, Lebanon, and 
various activities to foster education for STEM subjects as well as local 
community engagements worldwide.
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
10B.4 Human rights protection
Siemens Energy is a global business affecting people and the 
environment all around the world, especially in the course of large 
energy projects. We are conscious of the responsibility that this global 
impact brings and consider respect for human rights to be a core 
element of responsible business conduct along the whole value chain. 
Siemens Energy, including SGRE, is thus committed to ensuring respect 
for human rights which goes beyond compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations and includes our commitment to: 
• International Bill of Human Rights, consisting of: Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights; International Covenant on Civil and 
Political Rights; and International Covenant on Economic, Social and 
Cultural Rights;
• European Convention on Human Rights;
• ILO (International Labour Organization) Tripartite Declaration of 
Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy, ILO 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (in 
particular, on the following topics: elimination of child labor, 
abolition of forced labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of 
association and the right to collective bargaining) and fundamental 
freedoms
• UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), specifically SDG 8 
“Decent Work and Economic Growth”, which we have defined as one 
of our priority SDGs;
• United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
(UNGPs);
• OECD guidance on responsible business conduct and human 
rights;
• UN Global Compact principles, to which we are a signatory.
Targets
Human rights topics that have been identified as material by the Group 
are clustered into the subsets “supply chain”, “workplace” and “customer 
projects”, in summary reflecting our value chain. We are committed to 
ensure respect for human rights within our spheres of influence along 
the complete value chain.
Measures
Targets and associated actions to preserve human rights have been 
selected based on a comprehensive stakeholder survey in 2019 as well 
as on input from external experts, business network exchanges and our 
experiences with critical and controversial projects. Siemens Energy is 
currently evaluating which existing networks Siemens Energy will 
continue to participate in.
Our commitment to respect human rights is written into Siemens 
Energy’s Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs), with special emphasis 
on Siemens Energy’s company values caring, agile, respectful and 
accountable. The BCGs are binding on all executives and employees 
worldwide, who have to actively accept them and are being trained in 
their content via mandatory web-based training sessions. In the 
reporting period, Siemens AG BCGs were applicable with regular 
reporting routines of human right matters and associated discussion by 
the Siemens AG Sustainability Board. The Supervisory Board of Siemens 
AG was also briefed on the challenges that arose in protecting human 
rights. On October 1, the Group released its own BCGs, keeping the essence of the Siemens AG guidelines. In the course of fiscal year 2021, 
all employees will be required to accept the BCGs anew and undergo 
the related training. Due to its legal independence, SGRE has 
implemented its own BCGs, which, in line with the group-wide 
approach and underpinned by a human rights policy, aim to define 
respect for human rights as an integral part of corporate responsibility. 
To enforce this commitment, employees are trained in the use of BCGs, 
evaluation and approval processes considering human rights are 
mandatory in the sales function, compliance risk assessments are 
carried out, complemented with an ongoing monitoring process and 
reporting routines by SGRE's Chief Compliance Officer.
Human rights at Siemens Energy’s workplaces relate to excellent 
health and safety standards, fair working conditions and the prohibition 
of discrimination, all of these being at the heart of our Human 
Resources activities summarized in chapter 0.
During the reporting period, business partners in the supply chain were 
required to comply with the Siemens Group Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries. With regards to human 
rights, the Code emphasizes respect for the basic human rights of 
employees, including fair remuneration, freedom of assembly, health 
and safety standards, and prohibition of discrimination, forced labor 
and child labor. Siemens Energy has taken over the content of the 
Siemens AG Code of Conduct for Suppliers and implemented its own 
Code as of October 1, 2020. In addition, Siemens Energy is committed 
to preventing the use of minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk 
areas that impose a threat on human rights. Therefore, Siemens Energy 
adopted Siemens AG’s Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy 
(formerly “Conflict Minerals Policy”) and integrated it into its 
procurement process. This policy provides a uniform, group-wide 
supply chain management standard in this area and follows the risk-
based requirements of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance. To determine 
the use, sources and origin of these minerals in our supply chains, we 
investigate the smelters involved. Siemens Energy is planning to 
continue Siemens AG’s active membership in the Responsible Minerals 
Initiative (RMI), which provides audit programs for smelters. Over 380 
industrial companies are part of the RMI.
In fiscal year 2020, Siemens Energy followed Siemens AG’s approach to 
human rights due diligence in customer projects. Due diligence is 
mandatory in the sales phase for projects that meet defined risk criteria. 
The results of the due diligence are decisive for the project’s decision-
making process. 
Any violations of human rights associated with our areas of influence 
can be reported via our grievance mechanisms, including our 
communication channels such as our “Speak Up” reporting system and 
ombudsperson.
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
11B.5 Anti-corruption and bribery matters
Siemens Energy works with customers from a wide range of industries 
in the private and public sectors. The environments that we navigate as 
a result are accordingly complex. Siemens Energy operates globally and 
is thus confronted with complex regulatory requirements while 
pursuing a zero-tolerance approach toward corruption, violations of the 
principles of fair competition and other breaches of the law.
Anti-corruption measures combined with strong compliance systems 
protect companies as well as their employees and shareholders from 
the risk of possible misconduct. The elimination of bribery and 
corruption in all their forms promotes fair competition which benefits 
innovation-driven companies like Siemens Energy and fosters economic 
growth and social development which benefits entire countries, 
regions and their populations.
Integrity is the foundation for all our decisions and activities. Our 
fundamental premise which applies worldwide and to all levels of our 
organization is: only clean business is Siemens Energy business. 
Siemens Energy top management supports this with a strong tone from 
the top for Integrity and Compliance which is mirrored throughout the 
organization.
Siemens Energy´s compliance approach is based on the three levels of 
action “prevent, detect, respond”, centering around management’s 
responsibility, and comprising focus areas such as Anti-Corruption, 
Anti-Money Laundering, Antitrust, Data Privacy, Export Control and 
Human Rights. Gas and Power and SGRE each have in turn implemented 
a compliance system and Business Conduct Guidelines of their own.
The Legal and Compliance Department falls directly under the purview 
of our CEO and reports directly to him. The Siemens Energy Chief 
Compliance Officer has direct access to the Executive Board and 
Supervisory Board and reports regularly on compliance matters. 
Siemens Energy Compliance combines strong central governance with 
the work of qualified compliance officers who ensure that the 
compliance system is implemented worldwide. They work closely with 
employees and managers who assume personal responsibility for 
compliance in their respective areas.
Targets
Siemens Energy pursues a zero-tolerance approach that requires 
continuous effort to maintain and develop its holistic compliance 
system, consisting of measures to ensure that business is always carried 
out in full accordance with the law as well as our internal principles and 
rules. Siemens Energy continuously maintains and develops its 
compliance system. In this way, we want to ensure that our values and 
reputation are protected.
Measures
We continuously adapt and improve our compliance system to mitigate 
challenges and risks arising from changing market conditions and 
inherent in our business activities. Preventive measures include the 
Siemens Energy Compliance training program, communication 
channels such as our “Speak Up” reporting system and ombudsperson, 
compliance risk management, and guidelines and procedures such as 
the Siemens Energy BCG which lay the foundations for internal 
regulations and give expression to the values, compliance-related 
responsibilities and behavioral framework for all managers, employees and Managing Board members worldwide. Our Code of Conduct is 
mandatory for our business partners and covers legal compliance in 
general and our anti-corruption policies in particular, including 
provisions against anti-competitive practices and conflicts of interest.
Our global compliance training program consists of in person and e-
learning courses and requires all managers and employees in positions 
with a specific risk profile to complete compliance training. Our 
objective is to continuously adapt our training material to the changing 
risks our businesses face and permanently maintain awareness of 
compliance issues.
By the end of fiscal year 2020, the new global and web-based BCG 
training had already been completed by 87% of Siemens Energy 
employees in the target group (excluding SGRE). 
At Siemens Energy, we offer all employees and external third parties 
protected reporting channels such as the “Speak Up” Hotline and the 
external Siemens Energy ombudsperson for reporting violations of 
external and internal rules confidentially and anonymously as needed.
Compliance risk management is an integral part of the company-wide 
enterprise risk management (ERM) program enabling us to rapidly and 
continuously identify potential risk scenarios and take appropriate 
action. This enables the compliance organization to help the company 
achieve its goals. In this context, the regular Compliance Risk 
Assessment (CRA) was conducted for Gas and Power and separately for 
SGRE in fiscal year 2020. The risks identified in the process were 
addressed through local and central measures.
In fiscal year 2020 we established a stand-alone compliance system 
for Siemens Energy, including the relevant tools and processes. It is 
built on the solid foundations provided by the Siemens compliance 
system. To ensure that our compliance system is developed further in 
line with the rapidly changing business and technology environment, 
Siemens AG initiated a comprehensive project in cooperation with 
Siemens Energy. In this context, various internal compliance processes 
were optimized, and a stronger risk focus was adopted. We also started 
to modernize the compliance tool landscape.
Siemens Energy responds to all allegations of possible violations of 
external and internal rules in accordance with the applicable formal 
company-wide processes and takes appropriate disciplinary action in 
the event of proven violations. Once a compliance investigation has 
been completed and compliance violations have been identified, our 
internal processes provide guidance to ensure that appropriate action 
is taken in respect of the employees concerned. Consequences are 
evaluated and resolved through disciplinary processes at central or local 
level, and implementation is systematically monitored.
Performance indicators
In fiscal year 2020, Siemens Energy is not aware that it has been 
convicted of any corruption, bribery, or antitrust violations.
In fiscal 2020, 143 compliance cases requiring further inquiries or 
investigations were reported. We believe that the number of cases 
compared to 152 reported in fiscal 2019 lies within the normal range 
of variation, considering inter alia the Coronavirus-pandemic (COVID-
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
1219). The total number of disciplinary sanctions for compliance 
violations in fiscal 2020 was 65. 
Numbers for disciplinary sanctions in a fiscal year do not necessarily 
correspond to cases reported during that period: Sanctions are 
frequently not implemented in the same year in which the case was 
reported or the investigation – that follows a due process – was 
completed. In addition, a single case may result in multiple sanctions, 
or none at all. 
We believe that, once again, the evidence demonstrates that our 
Compliance System is well-designed and being implemented 
effectively. Based on the nature of our businesses, the environments in 
which we work, and the wide range of different geographical regions, 
we do not regard the number of incidents as unusual.
Compliance indicators FY 2020 FY 2019
Compliance cases reported1143 152
Disciplinary sanctions265
of which warnings 33
of which dismissals 30
of which other32
1 In fiscal years 2019 and 2020, in certain countries, Siemens Energy’s Gas and Power business was carried out 
under agency and distributorship agreements that were concluded between Siemens Energy and Siemens AG 
subsidiaries. The number of reported compliance cases in fiscal year 2020 includes eight cases related to 
Siemens Energy business carried out by these Siemens AG subsidiaries on Siemens Energy’s behalf (fiscal year 
2019: 13 cases).
2 The disciplinary sanctions reporting in FY 2019 was performed on Siemens AG level and could not be broken 
down to Siemens Energy level.
3 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation components, transfer and suspension.
13Non-financial Declaration 2020
Munich, November 27, 2020
The Executive Board
Christian Bruch Maria Ferraro Tim Holt Jochen Eickholt
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
14C. Independent Auditor’s 
Limited Assurance Report
The assurance engagement performed by Ernst & Young GmbH 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft relates exclusively to the German PDF-
version of the group non-financial report of Siemens Energy AG. The 
following text is a translation of the original German Inde-pendent 
Assurance Report.
TO SIEMENS ENERGY AG, MUNICH
(until April 3, 2020 Kyros 52 Aktiengesellschaft)
We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the group non-
financial report of Siemens Energy AG according to 
§ 315b HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) 
including the chapter A.1.1.2 „Business Model” in the combined 
management report being incorporated by reference for the reporting 
period from October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020 (hereafter non-
financial report).
MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY
The legal representatives of Siemens Energy AG are responsi-ble for the 
preparation of the non-financial report in accordance with §§ 315c in 
conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. 
This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate 
methods to prepare the non-financial report as well as making 
assumptions and estimates related to individual disclosures, which are 
reasonable in the circumstances. Fur-thermore, the legal 
representatives are responsible for such internal controls that they have 
considered necessary to enable the preparation of a non-financial 
report that is free from – in-tended or unintended - material 
misstatement. 
AUDITOR'S DECLARATION RELATING TO INDEPENDENCE AND 
QUALITY CONTROL
We are independent from the Company in accordance with the 
provisions under German commercial law and professional 
requirements, and we have fulfilled our other professional re-
sponsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 
Our audit firm applies the national statutory regulations and 
professional pronouncements for quality control, in particular the by-
laws regulating the rights and duties of Wirtschaftsprüfer and vereidigte 
Buchprüfer in the exercise of their profession [Berufssatzung für 
Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer] as well as the IDW 
Standard on Quality Control 1: Requirements for Quality Control in audit 
firms [IDW Qualitätssicher-ungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die 
Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis (IDW QS 1)].
AUDITOR'S RESPONSIBILITY 
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the 
non-financial report based on the assurance engage-ment we have 
performed.We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 
(Revised): "Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Financial Information", issued by the In-ternational Auditing 
and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). This Standard requires that we 
plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited 
assurance about whether the non-financial report of the Company has 
been prepared, in all mate-rial respects, in accordance with §§ 315c in 
conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. In a limited assurance engagement 
the as-surance procedures are less in extent than for a reasonable 
assurance engagement and therefore a substantially lower level of 
assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected depend on 
the auditor's professional judgment. 
Within the scope of our assurance engagement, which has been 
conducted in November 2020, we performed amongst others the 
following assurance and other procedures:
•Inquiries of employees and inspection of documents regard-ing the 
selection of topics for the non-financial report, the risk assessment 
and the concepts for the topics that have been identified as material,
•Inquiries of employees responsible for data capture and con-
solidation as well as the preparation of the non-financial report, to 
evaluate the reporting processes, the data capture and compilation 
methods as well as internal controls to the extent relevant for the 
assurance of the non-financial re-port, 
•Identification of likely risks of material misstatement in the non-
financial report,
•Inspection of relevant documentation of the systems and processes 
for compiling, aggregating and validating data in the reporting 
period and testing such documentation on a sample basis, 
•Analytical evaluation of disclosures in the non-financial report at 
Group level and at the level of the segments Gas and Power and 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy,
•Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis relating to 
the collection and reporting of selected data and disclosures,
•Evaluation of the presentation of disclosures in the non-financial 
report.
ASSURANCE CONCLUSION
Based on our assurance procedures performed and assurance evidence 
obtained, nothing has come to our attention that caus-es us to believe 
that the group non-financial report of Siemens Energy AG for the period 
from October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020 has not been prepared, 
in all material respects, in accord-ance with §§ 315c in conjunction with 
289c to 289e HGB.
INTENDED USE OF THE ASSURANCE REPORT
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with 
Siemens Energy AG. The assurance engagement has been performed 
for the purposes of the Company and the report is solely intended to 
inform the Company as to the results of the assurance engagement and 
must not be used for purposes other than those intended. The report is 
not intended to provide third parties with support in making (financial) 
decisions. 
Siemens Energy Non-Financial Report 2020
15ENGAGEMENT TERMS AND LIABILITY
The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften [German Public Auditors and Public 
Audit Firms]” dated 1 January 2017 are applicable to this engagement 
and also govern our relations with third parties in the context of this 
engagement (www.de.ey.com/general-engagement-terms). In 
addition, please refer to the liability pro-visions contained there in no. 
9 and to the exclusion of liability towards third parties. We assume no 
responsibility, liability or other obligations towards third parties unless 
we have conclud-ed a written agreement to the contrary with the 
respective third party or liability cannot effectively be precluded. 
We make express reference to the fact that we do not update the 
assurance report to reflect events or circumstances arising after it was 
issued unless required to do so by law. It is the sole re-sponsibility of 
anyone taking note of the result of our assurance engagement 
summarized in this assurance report to decide whether and in what way 
this result is useful or suitable for their purposes and to supplement, 
verify or update it by means of their own review procedures. 
Munich, November 27, 2020
Ernst & Young GmbH
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Spannagl Johne 
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin 
(German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor)
Siemens Energy AG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG.
© Siemens Energy, 2020