Siemens Energy AG: Siemens Energy determines
the number of new shares to be issued and the
placem ent price for the new shares
03/15/2023
EQS-Ad-hoc: Siemens Energy AG: Siemens Energy determines the number of new shares to be issued
and the placement price for the new shares
Siemens Energy AG / Key word(s): Capital Increase
Siemens Energy AG: Siemens Energy determines the number of new shares to be issued and the
placement price for the new shares
15-March-2023 / 22:09 CET/CEST
Disclosure of an inside information acc. to Article 17 MAR of the Regulation (EU) No 596/2014,
transmitted by EQS News - a service of EQS Group AG.
The issuer is solely responsible for the content of this announcement.N
OT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION (IN WHOLE OR IN PART) IN OR INTO THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, AUSTRALIA, CANADA OR JAPAN OR OTHER COUNTRIES WHERE SUCH A
PUBLICATION COULD BE UNLAWFUL
Munich, 15 March 2023 - Today, Siemens Energy AG (" Siemens Energy ") has decided to increase its
share capital through partial utilization of its authorized capital under the exclusion of shareholders’
subscription rights from EUR 726,645,193.00 by EUR 72,664,519.00 to EUR 799,309,712.00. A total
of 72,664,519 new no ‐par value registered shares (the " New Shares ") were placed with institutional
investors following an accelerated bookbuilding process. The New Shares carry full dividend rights for
the current ﬁscal year as from 1 October 2022.
The New Shares were placed at a placement price of EUR 17.32 per share resulting in gross proceeds
of ca. EUR 1.259 billion before deduction of commissions and expenses. The net proceeds from the
capital increase shall be used to partially reﬁnance the voluntary cash tender offer for all outstanding
shares in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, S.A.
*******
Important notice
The distribution of this announcement and the offering of the shares of Siemens Energy in certain jurisdictions
may be restricted by law. Persons into whose possession this announcement comes are required to inform
themselves about, and to observe, any such restrictions. This announcement does not contain or constitute an
offer of, or the solicitation of an offer to buy or subscribe for, securities to any person in the United States of
America, Australia, Canada, Japan or in any jurisdiction to whom or in which such offer or solicitation is
unlawful.
Securities may not be offered or sold absent registration except pursuant to an exemption from, or a transaction
not subject to, the registration requirements under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. There will be
no public offer of securities in the United States of America or in any other jurisdiction.
In member states of the European Economic Area (" EEA"), this announcement is only addressed to and directed
at persons who are 'qualiﬁed investors' within the meaning of Article 2(e) of the Prospectus Regulation
(Regulation (EU) 2017/1129) (as amended, the "Prospectus Regulation") ("Qualiﬁed Investors"). In the United
Kingdom, this announcement is only addressed to and directed at Qualiﬁed Investors who are persons (i) who
have professional experience in matters relating to investments falling within Article 19(5) (investment
professionals) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (as amended,
the "Order") or (ii) falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) (high net worth companies, incorporated associations,
etc.) of the Order.
To the extent this announcement contains predictions, expectations or statements, estimates, opinions and
projections with respect to anticipated future performance of Siemens Energy (“forward-looking statements”),
they are based upon current views and assumptions of the Siemens Energy management, which were made to
its best knowledge. Forward-looking statements reﬂect various assumptions taken from Siemens Energy’s
current business plan or from public sources which have not been independently veriﬁed or assessed by
Siemens Energy and which may or may not prove to be correct. Forward-looking statements are subject to
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause the earnings position,
proﬁtability, performance or the results of Siemens Energy or the success of the industries in which Siemens
Energy operates to differ materially from the earnings position, proﬁtability, performance or the results
expressly or implicitly assumed or described in these forward-looking statements. In consideration of these
risks, uncertainties and other factors, persons receiving this document are advised not to rely on these forward-
looking statements. Siemens Energy does not assume any liability or guarantee for such forward-looking
statements and will not adjust them to any future results and developments.
Information to Distributors
Pursuant to EU product governance requirements, the shares have been subject to a product approval process,
under which each distributor has determined that such shares are: (i) compatible with an end target market of
retail investors and investors who meet the criteria of professional clients and eligible counterparties, each as
deﬁned in MiFID II; and (ii) eligible for distribution through all distribution channels as are permitted by MiFID II.
Any distributor subsequently offering the shares is responsible for undertaking its own target market
assessment in respect of the shares and determining appropriate distribution channels.
 1
5-March-2023 CET/CEST The EQS Distribution Services include Regulatory Announcements,
Financial/Corporate News and Press Releases.
Language:English
Company:Siemens Energy AG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich
Germany
Phone: +49 89 207084040
Fax: +49 89 207084040
E-mail: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
Internet: www.siemens-energy.com
ISIN: DE000ENER6Y0
WKN: ENER6Y
Indices: DAX
Listed: Regulated Unofﬁcial Market in Berlin, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Hanover, Munich,
Stuttgart, Tradegate Exchange