Siemens Energy AG: Siemens Energy launches cash
capital increase t hrough accelerated bookbuilding
03/15/2023
EQS-Ad-hoc: Siemens Energy AG: Siemens Energy launches cash capital increase through accelerated
bookbuilding
Siemens Energy AG / Key word(s): Capital Increase
Siemens Energy AG: Siemens Energy launches cash capital increase through accelerated bookbuilding
15-March-2023 / 18:20 CET/CEST
Disclosure of an inside information acc. to Article 17 MAR of the Regulation (EU) No 596/2014,
transmitted by EQS News - a service of EQS Group AG.
The issuer is solely responsible for the content of this announcement.
NOT  FOR RELEASE, PUBLICA TION OR DISTRIBUTION (IN WHOLE OR IN P ART) IN OR INT O THE
UNITED ST ATES OF AMERICA, AUSTRALIA, CANADA  OR JAP AN OR OTHER COUNTRIES WHERE
SUCH A PUBLICA TION COULD BE UNLA WFUL
Munich, 15 March 2023 - Today , the executive board of Siemens Ener gy AG (" Siemens Energy "), with the
approval of the supervisory board, resolved to launch a capital increase against cash contributions through
partial utilization of the authorized capital. The share capital of Siemens Ener gy will be increased by up to 10%
by issuing new no -par value registered shares (the " New Shar es") against cash contributions under the
exclusion of shareholders’  subscription rights. The New Shares will carry full dividend rights for the current
fiscal year as from 1  October 2022.
The of fer and sale of New Shares will be exclusively made to institutional investors in a private placement by
way of an accelerated bookbuilding process. The private placement will be initiated immediately after this
notification. The executive board of Siemens Ener gy, with the approval of the supervisory board, will determine
and announce the final number of shares to be issued, the placement price and the final gross proceeds
following the conclusion of the accelerated bookbuilding process. Following the private placement, Siemens
Energy will be subject to a lock-up, i.e., an obligation not to, inter alia , issue further shares or financial
instruments convertible into shares or to conduct a further capital increase, of 90 days, subject to certain market
standard exemptions.
Admission of the New Shares for trading in the sub-segment of the regulated market with additional post-
admission obligations (Prime Standard) of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange is expected to take place on 21 March
2023. Trading in the New Shares is expected to commence on 23 March 2023. It is intended to include the New
Shares in the existing listings of the existing shares of Siemens Ener gy. The delivery of the New Shares to
investors is scheduled for 23 March 2023.
*******
Important notice
The distribution of this announcement and the offering of the shares of Siemens Energy in certain jurisdictions may be
restricted by law. Persons into whose possession this announcement comes are required to inform themselves about, and
to observe, any such restrictions. This announcement does not contain or constitute an offer of, or the solicitation of anThe expected net proceeds from the capital increase shall be used to partially refinance the voluntary cash
tender of fer for all outstanding shares in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Ener gy, S.A.
offer to buy or subscribe for, securities to any person in the United States of America, Australia, Canada, Japan or in any
jurisdiction to whom or in which such offer or solicitation is unlawful.
Securities may not be offered or sold absent registration except pursuant to an exemption from, or a transaction not
subject to, the registration requirements under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. There will be no public offer
of securities in the United States of America or in any other jurisdiction.
In member states of the European Economic Area ("EEA"), this announcement is only addressed to and directed at
persons who are 'qualified investors' within the meaning of Article 2(e) of the Prospectus Regulation (Regulation (EU)
2017/1129) (as amended, the "Prospectus Regulation") ("Qualified Investors"). In the United Kingdom, this
announcement is only addressed to and directed at Qualified Investors who are persons (i) who have professional
experience in matters relating to investments falling within Article 19(5) (investment professionals) of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (as amended, the "Order") or (ii) falling within Article
49(2)(a) to (d) (high net worth companies, incorporated associations, etc.) of the Order.
To the extent this announcement contains predictions, expectations or statements, estimates, opinions and projections with
respect to anticipated future performance of Siemens Energy (“forward-looking statements”), they are based upon current
views and assumptions of the Siemens Energy management, which were made to its best knowledge. Forward-looking
statements reflect various assumptions taken from Siemens Energy’s current business plan or from public sources which
have not been independently verified or assessed by Siemens Energy and which may or may not prove to be correct.
Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause
the earnings position, profitability, performance or the results of Siemens Energy or the success of the industries in which
Siemens Energy operates to differ materially from the earnings position, profitability, performance or the results expressly
or implicitly assumed or described in these forward-looking statements. In consideration of these risks, uncertainties and
other factors, persons receiving this document are advised not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Siemens
Energy does not assume any liability or guarantee for such forward-looking statements and will not adjust them to any
future results and developments.
Information to Distributors
Pursuant to EU product governance requirements, the shares have been subject to a product approval process, under
which each distributor has determined that such shares are: (i) compatible with an end target market of retail investors and
investors who meet the criteria of professional clients and eligible counterparties, each as defined in MiFID II; and (ii)
eligible for distribution through all distribution channels as are permitted by MiFID II. Any distributor subsequently
offering the shares is responsible for undertaking its own target market assessment in respect of the shares and
determining appropriate distribution channels.
 1
5-March-2023 CET/CEST The EQS Distribution Services include Regulatory Announcements,
Financial/Corporate News and Press Releases.
Language:English
Company:Siemens Energy AG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich
Germany
Phone: +49 89 207084040
Fax: +49 89 207084040
E-mail: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
Internet: www.siemens-energy.com
ISIN: DE000ENER6Y0
WKN: ENER6Y
Indices: DAX
Listed: Regulated Unofﬁcial Market in Berlin, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Hanover, Munich,
Stuttgart, Tradegate Exchange