  Siemens Energy AG:      Siemens Gamesa Renewable
Energy, S.A. lowers outlook for ﬁscal year 2021
impacting Siemens Energy
07/14/2021
DGAP-Ad-hoc:   Siemens Energy AG:      Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, S.A. lowers outlook for ﬁscal
year 2021 impacting Siemens Energy
Siemens Energy AG / Key word(s): Forecast
  Siemens Energy AG:      Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, S.A. lowers outlook for ﬁscal year 2021
impacting Siemens Energy
14-Jul-2021 / 23:22 CET/CEST
Disclosure of an inside information acc. to Article 17 MAR of the Regulation (EU) No 596/2014,
transmitted by DGAP - a service of EQS Group AG.
The issuer is solely responsible for the content of this announcement.S
iemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, S.A. (SGRE), a separately listed and fully consolidated subsidiary
of Siemens Energy AG, announced i.a. that
- SGRE group revenue for ﬁnancial year 2021 is expected to be at the low end of the range
communicated together with the results of the second quarter on 30 April 2021 (€10.2-
€10.5bn).
- SGRE group EBIT margin pre Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) and before Integration &
Restructuring (I&R) costs for ﬁnancial year 2021 is adjusted to a range of 0% to -1%.
- SGRE preliminary Q3 earnings are as follows (all stated ﬁgures are provisional and unaudited):
- Revenue of c. €2.7bn.
- EBIT pre PPA and I&R costs of c. -€150 million.
Further information is published by SGRE on its Investor Relations homepage.
Siemens Energy, however, conﬁrms its outlook for the Gas and Power segment for ﬁscal year 2021
(nominal revenue growth of 2% to 6% and an Adjusted EBITA margin before special items of 3.5% to
5.5%). Siemens Energy conﬁrms its group revenue guidance (nominal revenue growth of 3% to 8%).
Due to SGRE's signiﬁcantly lower proﬁt expectations Siemens Energy does not expect to reach the low
end of its group margin guidance for the full year (Adjusted EBITA margin before special items of 3% to
5%).
Siemens Energy's Gas and Power segment is performing in line with expectations. Due to SGRE's
preliminary Q3 results Siemens Energy Q3 results are unlikely to meet current market expectations.
Siemens Energy will publish its full earnings release for the third quarter of ﬁscal year 2021 on August
4, 2021 as planned.
Disclaimer
This document contains statements related to our future business and ﬁnancial performance, and
future events or developments involving
Siemens Energy that may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements may be identiﬁed
by words such as "expect," "look forward to," "anticipate" "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate,"
"will," "project," or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward-looking statements in other
reports, prospectuses, in presentations, in material delivered to shareholders, and in press releases. In
addition, our representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Such
statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens Energy's
management, of which many are beyond Siemens Energy's control. These are subject to a number of
risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including, but not limited to, those described in disclosures, in
particular in the chapter "Report on expected developments and associated material opportunities and
risks" in the Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, should acts
of force majeure, such as pandemics, occur, or should underlying expectations including future events
occur at a later date or not at all, or should assumptions prove incorrect, Siemens Energy's actual
results, performance, or achievements may (negatively or positively) vary materially from those
described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward-looking statement. Siemens Energy neither
intends, nor assumes any obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of
developments which differ from those anticipated.
This document includes supplemental ﬁnancial measures - that are not clearly deﬁned in the
applicable ﬁnancial reporting framework - and that are or may be alternative performance measures
(non-GAAP-measures). These supplemental ﬁnancial measures should not be viewed in isolation or as
alternatives to measures of Siemens Energy's net assets and ﬁnancial position or results of operations
as presented in accordance with the applicable ﬁnancial reporting framework in its consolidated
ﬁnancial statements. Other companies that report or describe similarly titled alternative performance
measures may calculate them differently. Explanations of ﬁnancial measures used can be found in the
Annual Report 2020 of Siemens Energy AG (available at https://assets.siemens-
energy.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:e28c0ec6-2e23-4dc4-811a-7eccc4bd035f/2020-12-07-siemens-
energy-ag-annual-report-2020.pdf), in particular in Section 1.2. Due to rounding, numbers presented
throughout this and other documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages
may not precisely reﬂect the absolute ﬁgures.
 1
4-Jul-2021 CET/CEST The DGAP Distribution Services include Regulatory Announcements,
Financial/Corporate News and Press Releases.
Language:English
Company:Siemens Energy AG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich
Germany
Phone: +49 89 636 25358
Fax: +49 89 636 1325358
E-mail: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
Internet: www.siemens-energy.com
ISIN: DE000ENER6Y0
WKN: ENER6Y
Indices: DAX
Listed: Regulated Unofﬁcial Market in Berlin, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Hanover, Munich,
Stuttgart, Tradegate Exchange