Naturgy SCADA Renewables Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA Reference Control systems Instrumentation and control Naturgy has revolutionized its renewable energy operations by implementing an advanced SCADA system. This solution ensures transparency, flexibility, and availability, enabling seamless monitoring and scaling of their expanding wind and solar farms. With this technology, Naturgy is ready to meet its growth goals to contribute to the energy transition. At the same time, it remains dedicated to being environmentally responsible. Contact us “ The SCADA from the central control room provides us total transparency about our production at any time, the necessary flexibility to adapt to changes in the energy market, and technology and maximum availability in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. José Caamaño Head of Renewables Control Center, Naturgy Naturgy - Monitoring and controls with SCADA in Spain The customer challenge: Managing growth and innovation of the renewables fleet from one single access point The Spanish energy company Naturgy uses Spain´s many renewable resources. It runs 68 wind farms and six solar power fields. By 2025, the company aims to triple its installed capacity from the current level of around 4.6 gigawatts to 14 gigawatts. The plants are not limited to one area; they will be established across different regions globally. All the growth indicated in the strategic plan is based on a profound respect for local, environmental and heritage values. So, not only a wind control system was required, but a SCADA system that allows for operation and control of their renewable energy systems. The solution: Bridging interface gaps for renewable energy growth with an advanced SCADA solution The current SCADA system had interface problems with maintenance, grid operators, and trading. It could not keep up with the growth of Naturgy’s renewable energy fleet. To reach their growth goals, Naturgy needed a flexible and scalable control system. They wanted a centralized SCADA solution for operations and monitoring. This system should have standardized interfaces to connect different plants. It should let users access all available data from one place. The solution is to bridge interface gaps for renewable energy growth with an advanced SCADA system. Naturgy has successfully combined different technical platforms in its Renewables Controls Center. This new solution helps to simplify their processes. Ensuring consistency across multiple systems was a critical goal. Their central control room, responsible for monitoring and managing all their plants, now offers complete transparency on production. Additionally, the solution seamlessly integrates multiple underlying systems into a unified Human-Machine Interface (HMI). To achieve this, Naturgy adopted Siemens Energy’s advanced controls solution, which provides a modern, scalable, and open SCADA architecture. Key features include automated generation control, real-time dashboarding, and a robust backup center. With the replacement of the old SCADA system, Naturgy can now focus more effectively on developing and operating its renewable energy business. The benefits: •         Enhanced monitoring and transparency across all plants •         Unified Human-Machine Interface (HMI) for streamlined operations •         Scalability and flexibility to accommodate growth targets •         Robust backup center ensures reliability About Naturgy: Naturgy is a leading multinational energy company specializing in the supply and distribution of natural gas and electricity. It focuses on sustainable growth, innovation in renewable energy, and commitment to environmental stewardship, serving over 16 million customers worldwide. Contact us for your monitor and control solution With more than 4,000 successful control system projects worldwide we're a true partner in your success. Don’t hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. With our experts we’re ready for your next project! Contact us Read more 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition 3 min read Leipziger Stadtwerke, Germany: 100% hydrogen-ready CHP plant See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025