Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin , November  21, 2023  
Siemens Energy to accelerate its journey to 
deliver profitable growth and fix wind 
business while maintaining a solid financial 
foundation  
• Capitalizing on main energy trends to continue delive ring profitable growth in Gas Services, Grid 
Technologies and Transformation of Industry  
• Clear plan to return profitability at Siemens Gamesa by fixing quality topics in onshore and 
driving ramp -up in offshore  
• Prudent resource allocation adhering to stringent capital allocation principles while maintaining a 
solid balance sheet and financial foundation  
 
At its third Capital Market Day in Hamburg , Germany,  Siemens Energy presented a strategic outlook 
to analysts and investors. The Executive  Board outlined  a clear path to create shareholder value 
along  three priorities: Deliver on profitable growth, fix the wind business  and maintain a solid 
financial foundation.  
 
"We are achieving consistent and impressive results in 70% of our  businesses.  Those results show 
that our underlying strategic north star to become a leader in the energy transition is right. Our 
portfolio is excellently positioned, and our record order backlog of 112 billion Euros clearly 
demonstrates this. As a next step, we will accelerate profitable growth and execute our order 
backlog with improved margins and operational excellence. The turnaround of Siemens  Gamesa 
remains our highest priority and we now have a defined path and action plan to reach break -even 
for the wind business in fiscal year 2026  and to return to profitability thereafter ,” said Christian 
Bruch, President and CEO of Siemens Energy . Siemens Energy’s CFO Maria Ferraro emphasized 
prudent resource allocation with focused investm ents geared towards growth or customer 
requirements.  In addition, she re -emphasized the company’s commitment to maintain its 
investment grade credit profile which underline s Siemens Energy’s fiscal year 2024 net c ash target.  
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
The business areas Gas Services, Grid Technologies,  and Transformation of Industr y, which account 
for 70% of Siemens Energy’s revenue,  are all on track to achieve or exceed their mid -term  targets . 
Here, Siemens Energy benefits from strong market trends and its well  positioned portfolio  
supporting customers with their decarbonization efforts . In these three business areas, 
Siemens  Energy expects  margins  of 7-9% for Transformation of Industry  (target upgraded ), 9-11% 
for Grid Technologies  (target upgraded ) and 10-12% for Gas Services  (target confirmed ) by fiscal 
year 2026 . 
 
Global energy trends, like major grid investment and decarbonization, act as a catalyst for profitable 
growth across the entire Siemens Energy portfolio. Investment in the energy transition amounted 
to US $1.7 trillion1 in 2023 – highlighting the pace and scale at which clean energy technologies 
are being deployed. Demand for electricity is set to double between 2022 and 2050. By 2050 there 
will be six times more installed global capacity on the grid from renewable energ y sources. The 
market is now starting to see traction from governmental decarbonization investment programs 
and supportive regulatory frameworks like the EU Wind Package. This, coupled with the arrival of 
decarbonization targets in new and emerging markets, is boosting future market prospects for 
Siemens Energy with its energy technology portfolio that supports the entire value chain . 
 
Defined action path and plan for wind business to break -even in fiscal year 2026  
The wind subsidiary Siemens Gamesa has suffered serious setbacks . These challenges  
overshadowed the solid performance of the other businesses . With a clearly defined action  plan  
based on  simplifying the product portfolio, optimizing footprint and operations,  and strengthening 
processes and control, the wind business will be fixed , and reach break -even in 2026.  
 
The technical review  in onshore  has identified the deficiencies with high impact s in the onshore 
business  and remediation actions are under preparation.  Siemens Gamesa will be focusing  its 
onshore business based on specific criteria , such as supportive regulation s and polic ies and, 
sizeable profit pools  resulting in an optimized footprint. In offshore, Siemens Gamesa is ramping up 
production  capacity  at existing factories  to meet customer demand  and work  through the order 
backlog. Strengthening operational excellence through plant -specific initiatives, commercial 
selectivity  and imple menting cost -saving measures , will increase profitability. Siemens  Gamesa 
expects to achieve  break-even by fiscal year 2026  followed  by profitable growth.  
 
 
 
1 Based on IEA World Energy Investment Report 2023, published May 2023 . 
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact for journalists  
Tim Proll -Gerwe  
Phone: +49 (0)152 2283 5652  
E-Mail :  tim.proll -gerwe@siemens -energy.com    
 
Danielle Turton  
Phone: +44 (0)7808 827 577    
E-mail: danielle.turton@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and further material is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on X at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation 
and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and 
steam turbines, hybrid power plants opera ted with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power 
subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable 
energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. 
Siemens Energy employs around 96,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue  
of €31 billion in fiscal year 2023 . www.siemens -energy.com  