 
 
 Page  1 of 7  Munich, September 01, 2020   
Siemens Energy lays out its post -spin -
off strategy  
• About one sixth of all electricity generated worldwide is based on 
Siemens Energy technology  
• Leading portfolio from conventional to renewable energy  
• Clear commitment to accelerate profitability by rigorously driving 
operational excellen ce, portfolio adjustments and gradually shifting 
innovation focus towards sustainability and service  
• Clear target for Adjusted EBITA margin (before Special Items) of 6.5 to 
8.5% for fiscal year 2023  
 
At a virtual capital market day, Siemens Energy, a wor ld leader in energy 
infrastructure, today laid out its post -spin-off strategy. Siemens Energy is 
aiming for accelerated profitable growth. Management aims to achieve 
an Adjusted EBITA margin before Special Items of 6.5% to 8.5% for fiscal 
2023. The Executi ve Board is committed to drive operational excellence, 
portfolio adjustments to meet market demand and gradually shift the 
focus of innovation and R&D to sustainability and service.  
 
“The separation of the energy business is a key milestone in 
implementing  our Vision 2020+ strategic concept. We create an 
independent leader in the energy business with a strong brand and the 
most comprehensive offering in the energy sector. With this, Siemens 
Energy is best equipped to lead the global energy transformation in  a 
sustainable and economically feasible way. The new Siemens AG in turn 
will become a transparent and significantly de -risked company. With its 
core businesses Digital Industries, Smart Infrastructure and Mobility, it 
will play a significant role in shapi ng the industrial digitalization, called 
Industry 4.0”, said Joe Kaeser, CEO of Siemens AG.  Press release  
Contact for journalists  
 
Siemens Energy  
Tim Proll -Gerwe  
Phone:  
+49 (152) 2283 -5652  
E-mail: tim.proll -
gerwe@siemens.com   
 
Felix Sparkuhle  
Phone:  
+49 (172) 6347850  
E-mail: felix.sparkuhle  
@siemens.com   
 
Siemens AG  
Florian Martens  
Phone:  
+49 (89) 636 -22804  
E-mail:  florian.martens  
@siemens.com  
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  2 of 7   
A relevant player for securing future sustainable energy supply  
Siemens Energy will become independent at a time characterized by 
energy systems around the world undergoing fundamental change. The 
balance of fossil fuels and renewable energy sources is shifting. At the 
same time around 850 million people are still living without access to 
electricity. According to studies, global demand for electricity genera tion 
will increase by more than 50 percent by 20401. One of the main 
challenges for societies, as for companies around the world, is to meet 
the rising demand for energy and at the same time protect the climate – 
and to do so in an economically sensible w ay.  
 
Due to the breadth of its portfolio and its leading technology, Siemens 
Energy is well positioned to serve the different requirements of 
customers and society. With 91,000 employees in more than 90 
countries, Siemens Energy is a world leader along al most the entire 
energy value chain. An estimated one sixth of all electricity generated is 
based on Siemens Energy’s technology, which it believes makes the 
company hugely relevant for assuring future sustainable energy supplies.  
 
Christian Bruch, Preside nt and CEO of Siemens Energy, said:  
“Siemens Energy is a mirror of today’s energy world. Our comprehensive 
and diversified products, solutions and services enable us to meet the 
world’s increasing energy demand while at the same time supporting 
efforts to  reduce greenhouse gases. This puts us in an ideal position to 
support our customers with the energy transition.”  
 
Courage for interim solutions  
The rising demand for energy needs to be met in an environmentally 
friendly way – sustainable, affordable and reliable. Nevertheless, the 
transformation of the energy market starts from a wide range of different 
points and proceeds at different speeds. It depends on individual 
countries’ economic development and political agendas, as well as their 
access to energy  sources.  
 
1 Source for both figures: IEA WEO 2019 (Stated Policies Scenario ). 
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  3 of 7   “The challenge our customers face is to convert their installations to a 
more sustainable setup. But we also need to face the fact that this 
transformation will not happen overnight. There are still over 850 million 
people worldwide without acc ess to electricity. So the question is how to 
bridge into an affordable, reliable and sustainable power supply”, said 
Christian Bruch, President and CEO of Siemens Energy. “What we 
therefore need, is the courage to find interim solutions that make us 
bette r today, based on available technologies, such as increased 
efficiency or the use of clean fuels. At the same time, we must continue 
to use innovative technologies to ensure that we do not get stuck in 
intermediate solutions. Siemens Energy is the right pa rtner to address all 
of these challenges.”  
 
Industry leader in decarbonization  
When it comes to decarbonization, Siemens Energy is an industry leader: 
more than 50% of its portfolio is already decarbonized. The broad 
product portfolio of Siemens Energy includes products enabling the 
energy transition, such as hybrid power plants and gas turbines that can 
be operated with hydrogen. Siemens Energy is also a key player in wind 
energy and invests in the hydrogen economy. Its SF6 -free (Sulfur 
Hexafluoride) Transmission portfolio is market leading. With the help of 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy’s (SGRE) products, customers are 
already saving more than 260 million metric tons of greenhouse gases 
per year.  
 
Environment Social Governance (ESG) is a core aspect of Siemens 
Energy’s strategy. The company is committed to the U.N. SDGs and to be 
climate neutral in its own operations by 2030 while setting strict targets 
for employee health & safety. Beyond this, inclusion and diversity are key 
elements of Siemens Energy's sustainability strategy. In terms of gender 
diversity, the Executive Board is  committed to increase the number of 
females in leadership positions on the first two organizational levels 
below the Executive Board to at least 25% by 2025 and to at least 30% by 
2030.  
 
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  4 of 7  Accelerating profitability  
The Executive Board globally aims to acce lerate profitability by rigorously 
driving operational excellence, portfolio adjustments to meet market 
demand and gradually shift innovation towards sustainability and 
service.  
 
Christian Bruch, President and CEO of Siemens Energy, said:  
“Siemens Energy is a great company to tackle the global challenge of 
energy supply and transition, but our performance needs to get better. 
Our target is to increase our Adjusted EBITA margin before Special Items 
up to 6.5 to 8.5% for fiscal year 2023.”  
 
In the first str ategy phase, the focus for Siemens Energy's Gas and Power 
segment is on increasing profitability and cash flow until fiscal year 2023. 
Among the most important levers for operational excellence the 
company is evaluating a leaner cost structure, optimized l ogistics, 
centralized purchasing and the reduction of non -conformance costs. As 
an example, Siemens Energy recently streamlined its offering of 
aeroderivative gas turbines. Furthermore, Siemens Energy is currently 
reviewing a potential phase out of its bus iness with CO2 -intensive coal -
fired power generation.  
 
Another lever in the Gas and Power segment will be a rigorous focus on 
project selection and better execution. Projects with a negative lifecycle 
margin will be constantly phased out, bidding processe s will be more 
selective to improve the margin in the project business. The organization 
is currently evaluating operational excellence initiatives targeting more 
than €300 million additional annual gross global cost savings on top of 
the already announced  €1 billion savings target until fiscal year 2023, 
when compared to the cost base of fiscal year 2018.  
 
Service is a key value driver  
At the core of the future value creation of Siemens Energy is its service 
business with high conversion rates of up to 10 0% (the latter in high 
efficiency large gas turbines). Siemens Energy’s service business is highly 
resilient and based on its large installed fleet and long -dated service 
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  5 of 7  contracts generated revenues of €9.5 billion in fiscal year 2019. In fiscal 
year 2019 , 51% of revenue of the Generation division is linked to service, 
in Industrial Applications revenue contribution was even higher at around 
60%. In Transmission, service comes from a low base but is growing, 
similarly to SGRE. All in all, the service backl og of the Siemens Energy 
Group's segments was equal to €48 billion as of June 30, 2020.  
 
Leading the energy transformation via innovation  
Siemens Energy will shift its R&D spending under strict return criteria 
towards service and sustainability, the two ke y value drivers in the 
ongoing energy transformation. A yearly spend of €1 billion in R&D as 
well as the fact that the Group has a portfolio of over 24,000 patents and 
utility models and employs approximately 5,000 people in R&D shows 
the importance of R&D  for Siemens Energy.  
 
Strong financial foundation with significant upside potential  
Siemens Energy has a strong financial foundation. The Group had been 
provided with liquidity equivalent to about €6.4 billion, resulting in a net 
cash position of Siemens Energy (excluding SGRE business activities) 
about €2.2 billion, and a substantial order backlog of €82 billion, both as 
of June 30, 2020. Siemens Energy demonstrated resilience in fiscal year 
2019, with group wide -generated orders of €33.7 billion and a to tal 
revenue of €28.8 billion, resulting in a strong book -to-bill-ratio of 1.2. 
The main financial KPI of the Group’s financial disclosure is Adjusted 
EBITA before Special Items which increased from €1.46 billion in fiscal 
year 2018 to €1.52 billion in fisc al year 2019, of which €0.8 billion was 
generated by the Gas and Power reporting segment. For fiscal year 2023, 
Siemens Energy aims for an Adjusted EBITA margin before Special Items 
of between 6.5% to 8.5%.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  6 of 7  This press release is available at sie.ag/2Gi8mC3   
For further information on Siemens Energy , please see  
www.siemens -energy.com   
For further information on the Capital Ma rket Day of Siemens Energy, 
please see www.siemens.com/investorrelations   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens 
group, which has been working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands 
of industry and society for more than 150 years. With planned stock listing, Siemens’ 
energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future.  
It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a 
comprehensive portfolio for utilities, independent power producers, transmission system 
operators, t he oil and gas industry, and other energy -intensive industries. With its 
products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, 
processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central 
and di stributed thermal power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the 
energy transformation, including storage and sector -coupling solutions. The majority 
stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future -oriented portfolio. 
With  its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, 
Siemens Energy will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers 
on their path to a more sustainable future. With around 90,000 employees worldwide, 
Siem ens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and tomorrow.  
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
 
 
Disclaimer  
 
This communication  and the information contained therein are for information purposes 
only and do not constitute a prospectus or an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to 
buy or subscribe for any securities of Siemens AG or Siemens Energy AG.  This 
communication  is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or 
entity that is a citizen or resident or located in any locality, state, country or other 
jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to 
law or regulation of such jurisdic tion or which would require any registration or licensing 
within such jurisdiction. Any failure to comply with these restrictions may constitute a 
violation of the laws of other jurisdictions. Any securities to be distributed in connection 
with this transa ction have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities 
Act of 1933 (as amended ) or the laws of any state of the U.S. Neither Siemens AG nor 
Siemens Energy AG intends to register any securities referred to herein in the U.S. 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  7 of 7  This communic ation  is directed only at persons in the United Kingdom  ("U.K. ") in 
circumstances where section  21(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 does 
not apply. This communication  and the information contained therein  does not constitute 
an offer docum ent or an offer of securities to the publ ic in the U.K. to which section  85 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 of the U.K. applies and is not, and should not 
be considered as, a recommendation that any person should subscribe for or purchase 
any securities. This communication  and the information contained therein  is being 
communicated only to (i)  persons  who are outside the U.K.; (ii)  persons who have 
professional experience in matters relating to inve stments falling within article  19(5) of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (as 
amended) (the "Order ") or (iii)  persons within the scope of article  43 of the Order or 
(iv) high net worth companies, unincorporated associations and  other  bodies who fall 
within article  49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as 
"Relevant Persons "). Any investment or investment activity to which this communication  
and the information contained therein  relates is available only to and will be engag ed in 
only with Relevant Persons, and any person who is not a Relevant Person must  not act or 
rely on this communication or any of its contents. This communication  and the 
information contained therein  should not be published, reproduced, distributed or 
otherwise made available, in whole or in part, to any other person without the prior 
consent of Siemens AG or Siemens Energy AG . 
 
This communication  contains forward -looking statements. These statements are based 
on the current views, expectations, assumptions and information of the management of 
Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG. Forward -looking statements involve known and 
unknown risks and uncertain ties and, therefore, should not be construed as guarantees 
of future results, performance and events. Actual results, performance or events may 
differ materially from those described in such statements due to, among other things, 
changes in the general eco nomic and competitive environment, risks associated with 
capital markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in international and 
national laws and regulations, in particular with respect to tax laws and regulations, 
affecting Siemens Energy AG, and other factors. Siemens AG or Siemens Energy AG do 
not undertake any obligation to update any forward -looking statements.  
 
 
Advertisement  
 
This communication is an advertisement for the purposes of the Prospectus Regulation 
EU 2017/1129 and underlying l egislation. It is not a prospectus. The listing of the shares 
of Siemens Energy AG on the  regulated market of the  Frankfurt Stock Exchange 
(Frankfurter Wertpapierbörse ) is subject to the publication of a prospectus. The 
prospectus is expected to be approve d by the German Federal Financial Supervisory 
Authority ( Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht – "BaFin ") in accordance with 
the Prospectus Regulation regime. However, the approval of the prospectus by  BaFin 
should not be understood as an endorse ment of the shares of Siemens Energy  AG. 
Investors should purchase shares  solely on the basis of the prospectus relating to the 
shares and should read the prospectus before making an investment decision in order to 
fully understand the potential risks and rewards associated with the decision to invest in 
the shares. Copies of the prospectus will, following approval of BaFin, be available free of 
charge  from Siemens Energy AG, Otto -Hahn -Ring 6, 81739 Munich , Germany , or on 
Siemens Energy  AG’s website ( www.si emens -energy.com ). 
 