  
 
 
  
siemens -energy.com   MVDC PLUS  
Medium Voltage Direct Current  
Managing the future grid  

White paper | MVDC PLUS – Managing the future grid  
 
 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  2 
  
Abstract  
Germany and many countries in the world are facing a 
transition in transmission and distribution systems, due to 
the change from centralized energy produced in power 
plants to decentralized and local energy produced by re-
newables.  
This leads to several new  requirements for modern energy 
supply systems and thus the design and operation of the 
network becomes more complicated. The future electricity 
infrastructure has to fulfill new tasks like bidirectional 
power transfer, active management of power quality a nd 
ensuring grid stability as well as bridging longer distances. 
The innovative Medium Voltage Direct Current (MVDC) 
technology based on Siemens  Energy PLUS technology 
helps to tackle these challenges.  
The new transmission solution is based on HVDC PLUS te ch-
nology and combines the advantages of an MMC such as 
fast control of active and reactive power, low converter 
losses with a compact footprint for reduced costs.  
 
 CONTENTS  
Introduction  ................................ ...........................  2 
A new solution  ................................ .......................  4 
Line losses  ................................ ..............................  4 
AC fault ride through capability  ...............................  7 
Conclusio n ................................ .............................  8 
Technical parameters/ abbreviations  ........................  8 
References  ................................ .............................  9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
siemens -energy.com  MVDC PLUS   
siemens -energy.com  
MVDC PLUS  
Medium Voltage Direct Current  
Managing the future grid   
 
MVDC PLUS  
Medium Voltage Direct Current   
Managing the future grid  

White paper | MVDC PLUS – Managing the future grid  
 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  3 Introduction  
The concept of HVDC (high voltage direct current) technol-
ogy is well -established within the electricity supply industry. 
Compared to AC overhead lines, DC links require no reactive 
power compensation and have no skin and proximity effect.  
Today HVDC VSC technology is an appropriate solution for 
grid interconnections, power transmission and offshore grid 
access.  
Low and lower medium voltage direct current is established 
in renewable generators (photovoltaic and wind) but also in 
industrial environment as well as public transport and sees a 
boost du e to e -mobility. Higher medium voltage direct cur-
rent (MVDC) becomes attractive for future network applica-
tions.  
Various studies that address network reinforcement and inte-
gration of renewables show results with potential benefits re-
garding MVDC technology  in comparison to conventional AC 
connections. The reasons are among others, less losses and 
therefore a higher power transfer capability at a similar volt-
age level and the ability to control the power flow [1], [2].  
The potential applications are:  
• Enhance ment of existing infrastructure  
• Need for load flow control preventing re -dis-
patching and congestion in the grid  
• Connection of islands, autonomous systems and 
regional medium -voltage grids  
• Integration of remote generators or consumers, 
like onshore windfarm s, utility scale photovol-
taic, mining sites or as backup solution for exist-
ing local supply  
To overcome public concerns and objections regarding new 
installations of high voltage overhead lines and substations 
and to avoid complicated planning and approval  procedures, 
the industry develops new strategies [3], [4]. The reconver-
sion of AC lines into MVDC lines is a solution to increase the 
utilization of existing connections at limited costs and with-
out the risk of a stranded investment.  
 
Losses in DC energy transmission are lower compare to AC. 
The main benefit is to cover greater distances, but also to 
control the power flow. This is becoming increasingly im-
portant as energy is now generated at all levels, which leads 
to undirected energy flows and thereby j eopardizes the sta-
bility of our grids or rather causes “grid congestions”.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Figure 1 Power Towers for 30 and 110kV AC overhead line  
In case of a new connection, MVDC can reduce the needed 
space and the visual impact in comparison to an AC connec-
tion due to the same power capability with reduced voltage . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MVDC PLUS – Managing the future grid  
30 kV Tower  
8 m 
15 m 
110 kV Tower  
35,5 m  
17 m 
White paper | MVDC PLUS – Managing the future grid  
 
 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  4 
 A new solution  
Siemens Energy  MVDC PLUS is based on proven HVDC PLUS 
technology by means of modular multi -level (MMC) voltage 
sourced converters (VSC). The number of sub -modules and 
the DC voltage are adapted to the applicable voltage level, 
the principles are nevertheless preserved. I n order to opti-
mize the MVDC PLUS costs, the following strategies are ap-
plied: simplification of the installation compared to HVDC, 
standardized design with predefined type rating, use of 
MVAC components qualified for DC voltage.  
The reactive power control  of the converter aims to stabilize 
the grid voltage. It means that during AC overvoltage, the 
converter shall consume reactive power in order to decrease 
the AC voltage. Conversely, during undervoltage, the con-
verter shall supply reactive power to the gri d. A different be-
havior would endanger the voltage stability and is not suita-
ble. MVDC PLUS, in accordance with German standards [5], 
offers only the possibility to operate with reasonable operat-
ing points. As a benefit, the converter transformer needs no 
tap changer. During AC undervoltages, priority is given to the 
reactive power over active power supply, in order to effi-
ciently support the grid without overloading the converter. 
Figure 2 shows the operating area for an MVDC PLUS with a 
nominal active pow er of 150 MW for a converter connected 
to a 110 kV grid.  
 
135150
-135
-150Inverter
RectifierActive power [MW]
Capacitive
Reactive power [Mvar]72
-72
Inductive99 121 93.5 104.5 115.5 126.5 110
AC voltage at 
connection point [kV]AC voltage at 
connection point [kV]99 121 93.5 104.5 115.5 126.5 110
 
 
Figure 2 Operating areas depending on the grid voltage at 
connection point  
 
Because of the low sub -module number, the converter of 
MVDC PLUS is  compacter than a HVDC converter. Combined 
with medium voltage components, the space requirement is considerably reduced. As the sub -modules used are the same 
for MVDC PLUS and HVDC, the nominal current in the con-
verter is comparable. It allows a relativel y high power trans-
fer related to the size of the installation.  
~=
=~=
=Rectifier station Inverter station
 
Figure 3 MVDC PLUS symmetrical monopole configuration  
 
MVDC PLUS uses standard medium voltage AC components. 
It saves type tests and specific developments costs. It also 
leads to reduced storage costs, as spare parts are quickly de-
liverable. To this extent, the symmetrical monopole configu-
ration selected is ad vantageous compared to a bipole config-
uration, as no DC offset is present (see Figure 3).  
Table 1 MVDC PLUS design variants  
 
Line losses  
From an economic point of view, it is a commonplace to say 
that DC lines are advantageous for long distances over AC 
lines. The power losses on a DC line are lower because of the 
absence of skin -effect, proximity effect and reactive power 
exchange than for  an AC line of the same voltage. However, 
the losses in the stations are higher for a DC link than for an 
AC link because of the presence of converters. The acquisi-
tion costs of the station are also higher for converter station 
than for conventional statio n. In terms of operational cost, 
AC lines are therefore the optimal option for short distances, 
whereas DC lines are optimal for long distance. The break -
even distance depends on various aspects: right of way, 
transmission medium (cable or overhead lines) and environ-
mental aspects.  
HVDC line lengths above 1000  km are therefore quite com-
mon. For HVDC, the voltage drop between rectifier and in-
verter station is usually small (<°10%) compared to the nom-
inal DC voltage.  
For DC lines, the resistive voltage drop is the main limitation 
to the line length, as in contrast to AC lines, DC lines don’t 
consume reactive power. The Ferranti effect, which limits AC 
line length, is not present.  
For MVDC, these conceptions have to be adapted. The ratio  Variant 1  Variant 2  Variant 3  
DC voltage at rec-
tifier station  ±24 kV  ±30 kV  ±50 kV  
Active power, in-
verter station  30 up to 
70 MW  up to 90 
MW up to150 
MW 
Power factor  0.9 0.9 0.9 
White paper | MVDC PLUS – Managing the future grid  
 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  5 voltage drop between r ectifier and inverter to nominal DC 
voltage is higher than for HVDC. To get a better understand-
ing of the topic, some fundamental calculations based on 
Ohm’s law are presented below.  
The DC currents for MVDC and HVDC are comparable. As a 
consequence, the v oltage drops are similar in amplitude for 
the same DC line resistance. This voltage drop impacts di-
rectly the ratio losses to transferred power of the DC link.  
The ratio losses to transferred power is  
𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑒𝑠𝐷𝐶=𝑃𝐷𝐶,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑖𝑒𝑟−𝑃𝐷𝐶,𝑖𝑛𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑟
𝑃𝐷𝐶,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑖𝑒𝑟 (1) 
PDC, rectifier  is the DC power at rectifier station and P DC, inverter  is 
the DC power at inverter station.  
For a symmetrical monopole configuration, the expression 
can be reformulated as:  
𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑒𝑠𝐷𝐶=2⋅𝑅𝐷𝐶⋅𝐼𝐷𝐶2
𝑃𝐷𝐶,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑖𝑒𝑟  (2) 
where R DC is the resistance of one DC line and I DC the DC cur-
rent. It can be reformulated in:  
𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑒𝑠𝐷𝐶=𝑅′𝐷𝐶⋅𝑙⋅𝑃𝐷𝐶,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑖𝑒𝑟
2⋅𝑈𝑑𝑐,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑖𝑒𝑟 ² (3) 
R’DC is the specific resistance o f the DC line , l the  DC line 
length and U DC, rectifier  the DC voltage pole to ground at the 
rectifier station. The losses are therefore inversely propor-
tional to the square of the DC voltage pole to ground. A re-
duction of the losses can be achieved by, for  example, lower-
ing the specific resistance. This can be realized by increasing 
the total conductor cross -section. Another possibility is to in-
crease the nominal DC voltage level according to equation 3.  
~=
=~=
=Rectifier station Inverter station
Reconverted 
AC line
 
Figure 4 Reconversion of a 3 -phase AC system into a sym-
metrical monopole MVDC  
 
In Figure 5 the case of two three -phase AC systems re con-
verted in a symmetrical monopole is used (see Figure 4). The 
conductors are assumed to be aluminum conductor steel -re-
inforced cable with an aluminum  cross -section of 265  mm², 
which are very common in Germany and have a sufficient 
current capacity for the application. The calculations are per-
formed with a conductor temperature of 70°C. For compari-
son a XLPE cable of cross -section 2000  mm² copper at a c ore 
temperature of 70°C is used.  
A variation of the DC line length is realized as illustration for 
a DC power at the rectifier station of 90  MW. Figure 4 illus-
trates that for a DC voltage of ±30  kV and overhead lines, the 
losses become already higher than 10% for a length of about 
50 km. For a DC voltage of ±50 kV, this distance is about 
125 km. Even though the MVDC PLUS variant with a DC voltage of ±30  kV is able to transfer 90 MW at rectifier sta-
tion, with overhead lines, it is advisable to invest in the 
±50 kV variant for long distances in order to reduce the 
losses. Cables cause fewer losses than overhead lines.  
The power production of renewable power plants, photovol-
taic or wind farms, has a high volatility. Moreover, network 
load is also far from being  constant. Depending on the hour 
and the day, the electricity transfer can differ radically. If a 
MVDC link is used to evacuate power from renewable power 
plants, it means that it won’t operate continuously at its max-
imum capacity.  
The average generation duration curve for onshore wind 
farms in Germany, simplified, is used as input for an illustrat-
ing calculation [6].  
A wind farm of maximum capacity 90  MW and a DC link 
length of 100  km with ±30  kV as DC voltage are assumed. Fig-
ure 6 shows that the average losses reach 7%, which is signif-
icantly lower than the 22% calculated at the peak power. The 
link has however the capacity to transfer this power. A con-
verter with a DC voltage of ±30  kV can therefore be an eco-
nomical solution to connect an onshore wind fa rm. 
To sum up, the DC line losses are inversely proportional to the 
square of the DC voltage. For long distances, the use of a 
MVDC PLUS variant with a higher nominal voltage than 
needed can therefore be justified in order to improve the ef-
ficiency. Nevert heless, MVDC PLUS variants with fewer sub -
modules are a suitable and economical solution to connect 
renewable power plants, as they are able both to evacuate 
their peak power generation and to ensure acceptable aver-
age losses.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
White paper | MVDC PLUS – Managing the future grid  
 
 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  6 
  
 
Figure 5 DC line losses for an active power of 90 MW at rectifier station  
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Yearly average losses for onshore wind farm grid access  
  
 

White paper | MVDC PLUS – Managing the future grid  
 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  7 AC Fault Ride Through capability  
Networks experience short -circuits  regularly, for instanc e in 
the case of lightning. Until clearance of the fault by the grid 
protection, the voltage is reduced to a low level. For the 
grid stability, the power plants shall:  
• Support the grid voltage level by reactive current in-
jection at the point of connection.  It implies that they 
have to stay connected to the network during the 
fault.  
• Come back to the pre -fault state immediately after 
fault clearance.  
This capability is named AC Fault Ride Through and is re-
quired in grid codes [5], [7]. For MVDC PLUS, it means  that 
the converter shall not block during fault in the grid.  
MMC converters consist of sub -modules that can them-
selves be divided in a power electronic part and a capacitor. 
This last component is used to store energy. It buffers en-
ergy between the DC and  the AC side. The converter control 
has the task to balance the incoming and outgoing energy.  
For a short circuit directly in the vicinity of the inverter sta-
tion, the voltage is reduced close to zero and therefore the 
active power evacuated from the stati on as well (Figure 7, 
a) ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 AC Fault Ride Through process  
 
To recover the energy balance, the converter control has to 
reduce the DC power (P DC) received from the DC line. The 
strategy used is to increase as fast as possible the DC voltage 
at the inverter station (Figure 7, b)). As a consequence, the DC current (I DC) drops to zero (c). The inductance of the DC 
line limits however the gradient to:  
𝒅𝑰𝑫𝑪
𝒅𝒕=𝜟𝑼𝑫𝑪
𝑳𝑫𝑪 
In this equation, ΔUDC is the difference between the DC volt-
age at the rectifier and the inverter, pole to ground. L DC is 
the inductance of the DC line, given for one polarity.  
As the DC current can’t be reduced immediately to zero, en-
ergy is accumulated in the converter capacitors (d). Their 
voltages increase accordingly (e). In order to avoid damag-
ing the converter, if the capacitor voltages exceed a certain 
threshold, the converter blocks. The AC Fault Ride Through 
capability  of the MVDC PLUS converter is therefore directly 
linked with the capability of the DC current to be reduced to 
zero. The insulation coordination limits the DC voltage at 
the inverter station. The inductance of the DC line has there-
fore to be kept low.  
 
Figure 7 Alternation of conductor polarity to reduce the DC 
line inductance  
 
The standard design for a HVDC line is to place the positive 
conductors on one side of the tower and the negative on the 
other side. The distance between positive and negative con-
ductors is therefore high, which leads to a high specific in-
ductance. For MVDC PLUS, an alternative conductor config-
uration is proposed ( Figure 7). The positive and negative 
conductors are alternated on each side of the tower. Hence, 
the specific inductance is significantly lower. With this con-
figuration, simulations show that length u p to approxi-
mately 150  km can be reached without converter block dur-
ing fault close to the inverter station . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AC fault  
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
PAC 
UDC 
IDC 
PDC 
USM 
ΔEm 
rectifier  
inverter  
blocking voltage  
ΔUDC 
ΔUDC 
LDC 
White paper | MVDC PLUS – Managing the future grid  
 
 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  8 
 Conclusion  
The MVDC PLUS combines the features and advantages of 
MMC technology like advanced control, low converter 
losses and a reduc ed footprint with reduced costs due to 
systematic standardization, utilization of existing MVAC 
components and simplification in comparison to HVDC 
MMC.  
MVDC PLUS is Siemens  Energy ’ answer to the questions 
how to  
• connect islands, platforms and remote areas  
• integrate and stabilize weak grids  
• enhance existing infrastructure  
• fulfill the new tasks as a DSO  
• minimize the visual impact.  
MVDC links are adapted to variable power transmission and 
part load scenarios; therefore the expected histogram of 
the connected load or generation profile has to be taken 
into account for the decision on the voltage level in order 
to achieve a high overall efficiency of the MVDC system. The average efficiency can be significantly better than in 
case of peak power transmission.  
Siemens Energy  MVDC PLUS technology is one innovative 
solution to overcome the new requirements and challenges 
of the future network development, increase the quality of 
distribution networks, despite increasing decentral infeed, 
use existing infrastructure, connect micro grids and control 
load flow as well as provide backup solutions for continu-
ous production and optimize CO₂ footprint.  
MVDC offers a great advantage to independent energy  pro-
ducers . It will be easier to transmit electricity via DC links, 
achieve bundling, and so sell energy,  because DC offers 
power flow co ntrol , unlike Ohm’s law, where the alternat-
ing current flows where the least resistance is .  
 
 
 
 
 
AC Alternating current  
DC Direct current  
Em Converter module energy  
HVDC  High voltage direct current  
IDC DC current  
   
LDC  
Inductance of the dc line given for one polarity  
MMC  Modular Multilevel Converter  
MVDC  Medium voltage direct current  
TSO  Transmission system operator  
UDC  DC voltage  
XLPE  Cross -linked polyethylene  
  Abbreviations  
White paper | MVDC PLUS – Managing the future grid  
 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  9  
[1] S. Hay, C. Cleary, G. McFadzean, J. McGray, N. Kelly, “MVDC Technology Study – Market Opportunities and Economic 
Impact”, TNEI Services Ltd, UK, Feb. 2015,  
 https://www.tneigroup.com/news/scottish -enterprise -publishes -tnei%E2%80%99s -mvdc -technology -study  
 
[2] A. Shekhar; E. Kontos, L. Ramírez -Elizondo; A. Rodrigo -Mor; P. Bauer, "Grid capacity and efficiency enhancement by op-
erating medium voltage AC cables as DC links with modular multilevel converters", International Journal of Electrical 
Power and Energy Sys tems, vol. 93, pp. 479 -493 
 
[3] “Public acceptance for new transmission overhead lines and substations”, Union of the Electricity Industry, BEL, 2003  
Available: http://www.eurelectric.org/Download/Download.aspx?DocumentID=12983  
 
[4] “Qualifizierung des lternativenvergleichs als Mittel zur Beschleunigung und  Akzeptanzsteigerung der Planung von Strom-
trassen”, Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Energie (BMWi), Berlin, GER, 2015  
 
[5] VDE-AR-N 4110 Technische Regeln für den Anschluss  von K undenanlagen an das Mittelspannungsnetz und deren Betrieb, 
VDE, Berlin, Germany, 2017  
 
[6] “Windenergie Report Deutschland 2016”, Frauenhofer institut für Windernergie und Energiesystemtechnik IWES, GER, 
2016  
Available: http://publica.fraunhofer.de/eprints/urn _nbn_de_0011 -n-4456098.pdf  
 
[7] “Establishing a network code on requirements for grid connections of high voltage direct current systems and DC -con-
nected power park modules”, European Commission, Brussels, BEL, 2015  
 References  

White paper | MVDC PLUS – Managing the future grid  
 
 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  10 
 
 
 
 
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transmission  
Freyeslebenstraße 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany  
 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Transmission  
4601 Six Forks Road  
Raleigh, NC 27609  
USA 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by  
Siemens AG.  
© Siemens Energy, 202 1 
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions  
and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect 
those described, or which may  
undergo modification in the c ourse of further development of the 
products. The requested performance  
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product  
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other  
companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could vi-
olate the rights of the owners.  
 
 
siemens -energy.com    
   