EU F-gas regulation
factsheet
siemens -energ y.com
F-gases1: why they need to go
The decarbonization of the energy industry requires the 
phasing out and elimination of greenhouse gases in 
electrical switchgear and power grids at the earliest 
opportunity –particularly SF6.
SF6is the most potent greenhouse gas there is –
around 24,3002times more climate -hostile than CO2–
and it stays in the atmosphere for up to 1,000 years.
Some switchgear contains other F -gases such as 
fluoronitrile3, but these still have a global warming 
potential (GWP) of several hundred, even if used in gas -
mixture with a very small volume share.
By far the cleanest insulation option is clean air –a  
mixture of natural origin gases which has a GWP of zero 
and causes zero harm to the environment or to human 
health.F-gases can be phased out
Legislators around the world have an important role to  
play in supporting and accelerating the end of F -gases.
The revision of the EU F -gas regulation has called for 
tighter restrictions on F -gases. In October 2023, a 
provisional agreement was reached on the phasing out 
of F-gases (GWP ≥ 1) in new high -voltage switchgear by 
2028/2032. In January 2024 the European Parliament 
and the European Council have formally adopted their 
provisional agreement.
This is not just good news for the environment. This EU 
regulation g ives a clear technical framework and thus 
investment certainty to all switchgear manufacturers 
and grid operators. 
Now it’s up to manufacturers and grid operators to use 
the transitional phases ahead to make concerted 
progress away from all F -gases and towards clean 
power transmission.
1Fluorinated gases
2GWP -100 of sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) acc. to IPCC Sixth Assessment Report (AR6), 2023
3Iso-C3F7CN, GWP -100 = 2,750
© Siemens Energy, 2024                    Page 12024/0 3, V4
Is the industry ready?
Yes, F -gas free technology is proven, available and 
already operating at up to 420 kV (GIB) around the 
world. It doesn’t require major changes to existing 
infrastructure; clean air units are compact enough to fit 
within the footprint of existing substations.
Siemens Energy has over 4,200 circuit -breakers and gas -
insulated switchgear from the clean air Blue portfolio 
contracted worldwide. Of these, 1,500 are in operation 
and to date have saved 4.4 million tons of CO2
emissions. The technology is well established and reliable. Siemens 
Energy has over 50 years experience in developing 
electrical switchgear and has been working on vacuum 
switching and air insulation for over 40 years. The aim is 
to have a fully F -gas-free portfolio in place by 2030 –
and to that end, the company has invested over € 60 
million in a new production facility in Berlin.
More and more companies and suppliers are following 
suit. There is after all no patent or monopoly on natural 
origin gases. Timetable for F -gas phase out
Revised EU F -gas regulation March 2024 -linkto the final text
Switchgear restrictions
1)Prohibition of F -gases when putting
new switchgear into operation:  
2)New (virgin) SF6gas is prohibited from
2035 for servicing and maintenance use,
reclaimed & recycled SF6is possible.
3)SF6and C4FN as part of Annex I are subject to specific obligations, e.g. reporting, certification of personnel, 
labelling, regular checks of leakage detection systems, prohibition of gas release into the atmosphere. 
4)Financing obligations of producer responsibility to be established for SF6/C4FN by member states in 2027.medium voltage
≤ 24 kV all F-gases 01.01.2026
> 24 kV … ≤ 52 kV all F-gases 01.01.2030
high -voltage
> 52 kV … ≤ 145 kV F-gases GWP ≥ 1 01.01.2028
> 145 kV F-gases GWP ≥ 1 01.01.2032
Derogations
1)No prohibition for equipment contracted and ordered ahead of the entry into force of the regulation (03/2024).
2)Cascading principle for prohibition:
3)Repair is generally allowed. Extension of existing switchgear with SF6is possible if the equipment with lower 
GWP is not compatible and would require the replacement of the existing entire electrical switchgear.
4)Mobile substations (taking out of service and putting into service at different site) are allowed.
5)Life-cycle -assessment and Eco -design requirements do not apply to switchgear products as they are not part of 
Eco-design Directive 2009/125/EC and Eco -design for Sustainable Products Regulation (ESPR).year after start of prohibition 0 1 ≥ 2GWP 1GWP 1000
NOG (clean air and CO2, N2, O2, ..) permitted w/o restrictions NOGF-gases GWP < 1000 permitted
if no or one bid with GWP < 1F-gases GWP < 1000 permitted
if no bids with GWP < 1C4FN
F-gases GWP < 1 permitted w/o restrictions > 52 kV C5FKF-gases GWP > 1000 permitted if no bids with GWP < 1000 SF6
In general, natural origin gases 
(NOG) and gases with GWP < 1 
in high -voltage have to be 
applied if bids are available!
Natural -origin gases with GWP < 1 are future -proof with no risk for regulatory exposure!
© Siemens Energy, 2024                    Page 2
© Siemens Energy, 2024                    Page
 3How will the revised EU regulation 
impact the industry and environment?EU F -gas regulation factsheet
This important change in EU regulation raises a number 
ofquestions. For your convenience we have compiled a 
selection of the most frequently asked questions below; 
please contact us for any further details.
When will the regulations take effect?
The revised EU F -gas regulation will come into force 
20 days after publication in the Official Journal of the 
EU. This is likely to take place in March 2024.
When will the bans for new switchgear 
begin?
•01.01.2026: full ban of F -gases
in switchgear ≤ 24 kV 
•01.01.2028: ban of F -gases with GWP ≥ 1 
in switchgear from 52 kV up to ≤ 145 kV 
•01.01.2030: full ban of F -gases 
in switchgear from 24 kV up to ≤ 52 kV
•01.01.2032: ban of F -gases with GWP ≥ 1 
in switchgear > 145 kV
When do the obligations start to be applied 
for SF6and C4FN as part of Annex I?
The obligations starts to be effective when the revised 
EU regulation comes into effect (likely in 03/2024).What are the advantages of clean air and 
vacuum switching technology?
Zero environmental impact
•Zero SF6and other F -gas emissions
•Zero Global Warming Potential (GWP)
Zero regulation
•Zero reporting and handling obligations
•Zero issues with current and potential legislation
against PFAS F -gases
Zero impact on health & safety
•Zero toxic insulation gases or toxic decomposition 
products
•Zero gas -related safety measures during 
maintenance and at end of life
•Zero X -rays in operating modus (closed position); 
in open position value below IEC limitations
Zero compromise on performance and 
reliability
•High operational safety and switching performance
•Proven technology with 10+ years of experience in 
high -voltage vacuum switching in clean air
•Lowest carbon footprint across entire life cycle

© Siemens Energy, 2024                    Page 4EU F -gas regulation factsheet
Why was the F -gas regulation revised and 
the use of fluorinated gases further 
restricted?
The revision of the F -gas regulation follows the EU 
Grean Deal targets and reaffirms Europe’s ambition to 
become the first climate -neutral and zero pollution 
continent by 2050 and aims to protect the health and 
well-being of citizens from environment -related risks 
and impacts. It was adopted to reverse the increase in 
fluorinated greenhouse gas emissions belonging to the 
group of greenhouse gas emissions covered by the Paris 
Agreement adopted under the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 
(the ‘Paris Agreement’).
What equipment is affected by the 
regulation?
Only new switchgear is affected. According to the 
revised EU F -gas regulation ‘electrical switchgear’ means 
switching devices and their combination with associated 
control, measuring, protective and regulating equip -
ment , and assemblies of such devices and equipment 
with associated interconnections, accessories, 
enclosures and supporting structures, intended for 
usage in connection with the generation, transmission, 
distribution and conversion of electric energy.
Is the repair or extension of existing  
equipment still possible?
Repair is generally allowed. The extension is possible 
with some preconditions, see page 2 under derogations.
Will the revised regulation affect existing 
orders or frame contracts?
Any orders including frame contacts placed before the 
revised EU F -gas regulation comes into force (most likely 
in 03/2024) will not fall under the prohibition rules. Can products using fluoronitrile C4FN or 
SF6still be ordered?
Yes, orders can be placed in cases where no F -gas free / 
GWP < 1 alternatives are available (see timeline and 
derogations overview on page 2).
When is the latest an order for equipment 
containing SF6can be accepted?
The ban applies to the date when the equipment is put 
into operation. Therefore, the lead time, transportation, 
assembly and commission of the equipment needs to be 
taken into account when calculating the last feasible 
order date.
Is the use of new SF6gas on the existing 
equipment allowed after 2035?
From January 1, 2035, the use of new SF6for mainte -
nance or servicing of electrical switchgear is not allowed 
unless it is reclaimed or recycled, except if it is proved 
that reclaimed or recycled SF6
(a) cannot be used on technical grounds; or 
(b) are not available in the event of an emergency repair 
situation.
What derogations exist?
•Time limited derogations (see table on page 2)
•Mobile substations (taking out of service and putting 
into service at different site) are allowed.
•Orders placed before the regulations come into 
force are exempt. 
•Repair is allowed. The extension is possible with 
some preconditions, see page 2 under derogations.
•Life-cycle assessment and Eco -design requirements 
do not apply to switchgear products as they are not 
part of the Eco -design Directive 2009/125/EC and 
the Eco -design for Sustainable Products Regulation 
(ESPR). It is currently not foreseeable whether -and 
if so, when –eco-design requirements will be 
adopted that enable the proof required for this 
derogation.
How to proceed in the event of 
derogations?
The operator shall keep documentation establishing the 
evidence for the derogation for at least 5 years and shall 
notify the competent authority in the Member State 
where the electrical switchgear is put into operation.
Source: EU, 2020 
© Siemens Energy, 2024                    Page 5EU F -gas regulation factsheet
When may new SF6equipment be put into 
operation after the ban dates have come 
into force (table from page 2)? 
SF6devices may only be put into operation after the ban 
dates have come into force if no bid was received for 
electrical switchgear with insulating or breaking
medium with a global warming potential of less than 
1000. The derogation does not apply if one "F -gas free" 
offer was submitted in the medium voltage range or 
one offer with GWP > 1 or GWP < 1000 in the high 
voltage range .
Will the regulation be transposed into 
national law?
As it is a regulation, it comes into force immediately on 
March 11, 2024, in all EU member states and does not 
require any further transposition into national law.
What does “putting into operation” mean 
and who is responsible?
“Putting into operation” is not defined in the published 
regulations. In our opinion, this could be interpreted as 
the time at which the system is fully installed, handed 
over to the customer and ready for operation. The 
responsibility for compliance lies with system operators.
How does the installation and project lead 
time need to be considered?
The ban applies to the date when the equipment is put
into operation. Therefore, the lead time , transportation, 
assembly and commission of the 
equipment need to be taken into
account to be compliant with the
regulation .
What reporting require -
ments and obligations are
in place for fluoronitrile
(C4FN)?
SF6and C4FN as part of Annex I are
subject to specific obligations, e.g.
reporting, certification of personnel,
labelling, regular checks of leakage
detection systems (at least every 6 
years), prohibition of gas release
into the atmosphere. Does this have an impact on personnel 
training?
The renewal of training certificates for maintenance and 
servicing with F-gases is mandatory every 7 years.
To what extend does the material impact 
the overall life cycle footprint?
The amount of material used to create a product brings 
expenses at the start of its lifecycle, but what happens 
from cradle to cradle (holistic lifecycle) has to be con-
sidered when making LCA assessments. This circular 
material flow should be taken into account and given as 
a net impact value to better understand the true foot-
print of a product, now and in the future, see figure on 
page 5 .
A complete cradle -to-cradle LCA evaluation shows that 
clean air gives the equipment the lowest carbon foot-
print across its life cycle compared to other solutions. 
Further CO2 reduction will be achieved in the future by 
using emission -free power for material production and 
innovative manufacturing methods (e.g.aluminium
inert instead of carbon anodes).
Are LCA results from different 
manufacturers comparable? 
No. Even when applying existing standards and product 
category rules including the including IEC TS 62271 -320, 
the LCA results from different manufacturers cannot be 
directly compared because of different boundary con-
ditions for individual parameters such as allocation 
method, database of calculation tools, and material
flows . 
LCA stages based on 
IEC TS 62271 -320 
CD2 and EN15804

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Grid Technologies
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen
Germany
For more information, please visit our website: 
siemens -energ y.com
or contact us
Email: support@siemens -energy.com
© 2024 Siemens Energy
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance f eatures 
which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further develop men t of 
the products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contra ct.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose 
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Grid Technologies
8841 Wadford Drive
Raleigh, NC 
USA
Our clean air Blue portfolio is ready for future -proof substations and unaffected by the coming 
restrictions. Learn more on our website: siemens -energy.com/blue -high -voltage -productsEU F -gas regulation factsheet