Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page 1 of 3 
 
Munich, November 16, 2021 
Siemens Energy is the first manufacturer to 
receive certification for “H2-Ready” power 
plant concept 
 First company worldwide to receive new independent certification from TÜV SÜD  
 Increased investment security for power plant operators’ hydrogen journey 
 Siemens Energy contributed to developing the comprehensive certification guideline 
 
The globally operating provider of testing, inspection and certification services TÜV SÜD has 
developed a guideline for defining the “H2-Readiness” of power plants and is offering an 
independent certification to original equipment manufacturers and engineering, procurement, and 
construction (EPC) companies. The certification increases investment security for utilities. Siemens 
Energy is the first company worldwide to receive this certification for its “H2-Ready” power plant 
concept. The guideline for obtaining certification was developed in collaboration with subject 
matter experts from Siemens Energy. 
 
Hydrogen can play a central role in the decarbonization of energy systems. In particular, natural 
gas-fired combined cycle power plants (CCPP) currently being built or planned are also expected to 
run partially or fully on hydrogen fuel in the future. This means that utilities that plan to purchase 
this type of power plant will expect a statement of the plant's ability to use hydrogen as a fuel. 
Some new combined or single cycle gas-fired power plants are already being advertised as “H2-
Ready” today. Until now, however, there hasn’t been a clear definition of what this term means. 
 
“Our guideline enables OEMs, plant operators, and insurers to use a standard transparent 
framework”, says Reiner Block, CEO of the Industry Service Division at TÜV SÜD. “The certification 
covers a complete power plant with the relevant subsystems.” The “H2-Ready” certification, 
however, doesn’t certify existing power plants; rather, it provides a roadmap that describes how 
plants can be converted over time to co-fire hydrogen or even burn pure hydrogen. 
 Press release 
Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page 2 of 3 
 That’s why the certification of a combined cycle power plant includes three stages: First, a concept 
certificate for the conceptual design (including boundary conditions) during the bidding phase; 
second, a project certificate for the implementation phase, in other words, the final plant design 
and its specifications; and third, a transition certificate for the conversion of an existing CCPP to 
burn hydrogen – including a review of the retrofit measures and their impact on safety and 
performance. 
 
“Hydrogen is an important building-block for decarbonizing the energy supply. An independent 
certificate creates certainty for investments. We’re proud to be the first manufacturer to receive this 
important certification,” says Karim Amin, Executive Vice President Generation at Siemens Energy. 
“If we design CCPPs today for future operation with hydrogen, they don’t just serve as a bridging 
technology to a CO 2-free future, they’ll also make an important contribution to a reliable and 
affordable power supply in the long term.” 
 
To meet ambitious climate goals, it won’t just be combined cycle power plants that are modified as 
hydrogen power plants. The certification offered by TÜV SÜD can be applied to a wide range of 
solutions. Siemens Energy already offers hybrid solutions with hydrogen generation, storage, and 
re-electrification. The company is currently involved in the construction of several power plants that 
are designed to be partially or fully hydrogen-fired. 
 
Contact for journalists 
Sabine Sill 
Phone:  +49 173 7196 783 
E-mail:  sabine.sill@siemens-energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is available at 
www.siemens-energy.com/press   
 
For further information on Division Generation, please see www.siemens-energy.com/generation  
 
For further information on hydrogen, please see www.siemens-energy.com/hydrogen  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy 
  
Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page 3 of 3 
 Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €28.5 billion in fiscal year 2021. 
www.siemens-energy.com . 
 