THE ENERGY INDUSTRY TIMES - AUGUST 2019
Special Technology Supplement
Floating good ideas 
Having a power plant that can be moored near-shore or on a river has many advantages. With its new SeaFloat 
concept, Siemens has resurrected the idea of floating power plants but this time with the possibility of putting almost any of its high efficiency land-based gas turbine plants on a barge. Already, the first order has been secured for the Dominican Republic – a project that will also feature battery storage. Junior Isles
market is desperately screaming for 
the SGT-800, not only because it is a technology frontrunner but because of the various configurations that are possible. You can use it for new power generation installations based on LNG, and expansion of industrial applications in remote coastal areas.
“For a peaker, or fast-start plant; i.e. 
start-up in less than five minutes in cold conditions or less than two min-utes under hot conditions, the SGT-A65 is the right solution.”
Because of its size, the SGT-8000H 
would be best deployed in situations where a large amount of bulk power is needed, and space is limited but the grid is stable. Hossain said: “It’s not possible to take an H-class unit capa-ble of 620 MW or 1.3 GW in a 2-on-1 configuration and feed it into a weak grid in a developing country but in these cases we  could offer our trans-mission grid stability solutions. And the H-class would have advantages. If for example, you want to replace a large coal fired power plant in a region that has a more stable grid, with a more efficient, lower emissions plant, here the H-class is the right fit.”
He noted that customers in countries 
with labour challenges or those want-ing to avoid the time and effort in-volved in obtaining permits to install land-based plants, are interested in installing SeaFloat plants.
Project risk resulting from brown-
field activities such as demolition works, site levelling activities, re-location of existing structure, etc., can be avoided when replacing old plants. As the barges are built at modern shipyards, the project sched-ule does not depend on availability of qualified labour and infrastructure at the final location. According to Siemens, this can cut construction time by 20 per cent.
Siemens believes it is the simple 
plug and play, connect and go, possi-bility that makes SeaFloat plants so attractive. 
The concept allows fast and easy 
installation at shipyards. A SeaFloat plant, with the SGT-800 in particular, has a high degree of modularisation, where delivery of pre-assembled and pre-tested plant modules minimises The idea of floating gas fired power plants is not a new one. But rising global population, 
many of which are moving to live in megacities, where land is limited and expensive, could see the resurgence of these mobile power plants. Certainly Siemens sees this as one of the key drivers behind the development of a new floating combined cycle power plant concept it calls SeaFloat.
According to Siemens, SeaFloat 
technology combines state-of-the-art combined cycle power plant technol-ogy with the mobility and flexibility required by the current and future energy market.
Explaining why he thinks the mar -
ket is now right for SeaFloat, Hamed Hossain, Business Owner SeaFloat Power Plants, Siemens Gas and Power, said: “In the mid 90s, floating power plants were becoming popular.  At the time, Westinghouse (later bought by Siemens) was building floating power plants with gas tur -
bines operating in open cycle. How-ever, we saw an increase in oil and gas prices, which meant it was not worth building these plants anymore be-cause of their low efficiency.”   
“Now it’s different. We are building 
state-of-the-art combined cycle power plants with really high efficiency, which means if oil and gas prices in-crease even more then it’s still worthwhile, economically. And if prices fall, we can use open cycle plants. So we have all the technology that’s available for land-based power plants on a floating structure. This allows flexibility on plant configura-tion, since installations are less af-fected by fuel price.”
The real impetus to re-boot the idea 
of floating power plants, however, came about three or four years ago in response to market demand. Hossain said: “Customers were asking: ‘can you supply your technology on a floating device?’ So we decided to do it again. Two and a half years ago, when we saw that the market was re-ally pushing for it, we set up an entity within Siemens to specifically focus on it.” 
Hossain sees SeaFloat as a technol-
ogy that essentially gives customers more options when it comes to locat-ing power plants, i.e. they can be built on water when land is too expensive or unavailable, and in locations where there is a high country risk. 
The technology has numerous ap-
plications, such as: powering up re-mote areas like islands; development of industrial areas on shorelines or major rivers (for example, chemical and desalination plants); the replace-ment of out-dated plants, allowing the existing plant to continue operating until the new one is in place and ready to be connected to the grid.
SeaFloat power plants, which can 
provide from 145 MW up to 1.3 GW, can also be used as emergency backup for existing power plants during peak loads or outages and to provide power supply in the event of a humanitarian disaster. 
Another area where Siemens an-
ticipates great demand is in the oil and gas sector. “We are in contact with all the oil and gas majors. Our portfolio is to put our power plants on FSRUs (floating storage regasifi-cation units),” said Hossain. “Look-ing at FPSOs (Floating Production Storage and Offloading vessels), traditionally they all use open cycle plants, which have higher emissions relative to power output compared to combined cycle plants. 
Installing a power plant for this ap-
plication has its challenges, however. Although the SeaFloat power plant is compact and has a high power density, for an oil and gas platform, the weight and footprint has to be reduced even further. For a platform it should also be easy to install and have a high de-gree of modularisation. 
“This is how we came up with the 
ultra-light floating combined cycle power plant, which is part of the SeaFloat portfolio,” said Hossain. “It’s a major game changer; we have reduced the weight and footprint of the power plant by more than 50 per cent compared to combined cycle power plants already installed on existing platforms.”
Installing a SeaFloat plant would 
certainly help oil and gas majors im-prove their green credentials and lower the cost of emitting carbon. In a country or industry where CO
2 
prices are high, of the order of €50/t, the savings can be significant.
“Putting a combined cycle plant on 
an oil and gas platform or FPSO could reduce CO
2 footprint by 80 000-110 
000 t/annum. This translates to high single digit millions of euros in sav-ings from CO
2 taxes and certificates 
each year,” said Hossain.
Siemens currently offers SeaFloat 
power plants based on three main gas turbine technologies – the SGT-800, SGT-A65 and the SGT-8000H series – but says it is not limited to these machines. “In addition to these, we also have the SGT-750, SGT-A35 (formerly the RB211), which will be for the oil and gas market,” noted Hossain.
With the three initial technologies 
on offer, Siemens says it can address the majority of the market require-ments it has seen so far. The turbines were selected following careful mar -
ket analysis, an examination of the advantages of each turbine and ac-cording to feedback from customers and developers that have contacted Siemens.
Each of the three gas turbine solu-
tions has its own benefits. Hossain explained:  “The SGT-800 solution is our frontrunner. Two thirds of the 
Hossain: Customers were asking, ‘can you supply your technology on a floating device?’
(HGI) and major overhaul (MO) at 
every 30/60 000 equivalent operating hours (EOH).
The SST-600 steam turbine (ST) is 
also provided as a pre-assembled and system tested single-lift package on a 3-point mount base frame. It has a weight of about 475 t. The steam tur -
bine single-lift package consists of steam turbine, condenser with evacu-ation systems, generator and genera-tor switchgear. It has a size of 25 m x 7.0 m x 5.5 m (length, width, height).
The Once Through Steam Genera-
tor (OTSG) will be provided as a package with maximum modulari-sation. This modular approach has been applied in dozens of units worldwide and, says Siemens, results in safer and better quality fabrication under optimised shop conditions. The arrangement enhances faster and smoother installation at the shipyard. The steel structure for the OTSGs is designed as one combined block, so a rigid structure is formed to withstand marine environment conditions.
The OTSG package has a weight of 
approximately 665 t. The SCC-800 2-on-1 plant configuration has a size for the OTSG combined structure of 14 m x 23.6 m x 28 m (length x width x height).
The entire power plant can be in-
stalled under various commercial models, including straightforward sale and various lease options. “We are open to all options,” said Hossain. “At the moment the market is asking more for sale options, where the the manpower required at the con-struction yard and the hook-up time at place of operation. 
The SGT-800 combined cycle 
SeaFloat can be provided in SCC-800 2+1, 3+1 or 4+1 configurations to produce 150-450 MW. The SCC-800 2x1 has a length of 55 m and width of 30 m. According to Siemens, these plants are an excellent choice for providing baseload power to public or industrial grids, as well as for oil and gas applications. They offer broad flexibility in fuels, oper -
ating conditions, maintenance con-cepts, package solutions, and ratings.
The plant is designed to withstand 
near-shore conditions, with equip-ment intended for on-board installa-tions based on international codes and standards valid for power plants. Certain modifications are imple-mented to suit the marine environ-ment with respect to, but not limited to air intake filters, materials, surface treatments and protection against water ingress and corrosion. Move-ments and deflection are addressed by particular technical modifications.
Hossain noted: “SeaFloat is not 
re-inventing the wheel; it’s not rocket science for the Gas and Power business. It is the same technology we use on a land-based plant that has been optimised for a floating device. You could look at it as a power plant with a moving foundation. This means it has roll, pitch and accelera -
tion; and the hull of the floating de-vice has deflections. When you want to build a power plant on top of a foundation that is bending and mov-ing up and down, you have to ensure your equipment can withstand the roll and pitch, acceleration, as well as the deflection.”
As an example, he noted that the 
SGT-800 comes as a single-lift pack-age on a 3-point mount frame, con-sisting of turbine, mechanical auxil-iary systems, gearbox, generator and generator switchgear. It has a weight of about 265 t and comes pre-assem-bled and system tested with a dedi-cated electrical and control module.
“This means the solution stands on 
three legs, designed as a foundation to withstand the deflection of the hull. The gas turbine is almost the same [as the land-based machine]; it’s just the connection point to the foundation needs some smart solutions to really make it happen,” noted Hossain. “Deflection must not be transferred to the gas turbine, so it has to be decou-pled. For roll and pitch and accelera-tion, you have to address the lube oil systems. If the barge moves in one direction as a result of roll and pitch, you have to ensure the gas turbine bearings remain lubed.”
The single-lift package concept en-
ables 48 h core engine exchange for plants with highest requirements on availability. The easy ‘roll-out’ capa-bility of the gas turbine core engine enables on-board maintenance and overhaul, with turbine inspections/overhauls, hot gas path inspection 
Special Technology SupplementTHE ENERGY INDUSTRY TIMES - AUGUST 2019
The SGT-800 gas turbine will be provided as a single-lift package and 3-point mount installation, consisting of turbine, mechanical auxiliary systems, gearbox, generator and generator switchgearSeaFloat gives owners more 
options when it comes to locating power plants

THE ENERGY INDUSTRY TIMES - AUGUST 2019
connected to the grid, providing fre-
quency control when needed. This is made possible with a battery storage system. Here, Siemens can also de-liver its hybrid SIESTART solution, combining a flexible (gas turbine) combined cycle power plant with a battery energy storage system.  
The SeaFloat concept is already be-
ginning to bear fruit. At the end of November 2018, Siemens and the marine arm of ST Engineering in Singapore jointly secured the first or -
der for a project for a SCC-800 2x1C SeaFloat power plant from Seaboard Corporation subsidiary Transconti-nental Capital Corporation (Bermuda) Ltd., an independent power producer (IPP) with operations in the Domini-can Republic.
Under a turnkey plug and play con-
cept, Siemens as consortium leader will provide a 145 MW SeaFloat combined cycle power plant known as Estrella del Mar III, along with its  power plant is sold to the customer. Some are also asking for Siemens to operate the plant; so we can add an O&M contract to the sale. Others ask for a special purpose vehicle to be set up to own and operate the project and ask if Siemens is willing to take a share in the project as a stakeholder if a project is viable. We have done it for land-based plants – where we bring in equity or financing – and can also do it for sea-based applications.”
The economics of SeaFloat projects 
appear to be sound. According to Sie-mens, the SeaFloat concept completed in a shipyard will provide the cus-tomer with “a quality proven power plant” at a potentially 20 per cent lower CAPEX than a similar land-based plant.  
A SeaFloat power plant could oper -
ate as a baseload power plant with the aim of selling electricity but with the owners also being paid a premium for having the ability to always stay SIESTART solution. ST Engineering will be responsible for the engineer -
ing design, procurement and con-struction of the floating power barge, the balance-of-plant and the installa-tion of the floating power plant. 
ST Engineering will receive the gas 
turbine as a pre-installed package, the steam turbine as a separate package and the boiler in three modules, where it will be erected and pre-installed at a controlled, highly skilled shipyard. It will then be towed to the final des-tination and connected to the grid.
For the SIESTART solution, Fluence 
Energy, a company jointly owned by Siemens and AES, is providing a  
5 MW/10 MWh battery energy stor -
age system to be integrated as part of the power plant for frequency regu-lation control. This will allow the plant to operate at full capacity with highest fuel efficiency.
The Estrella del Mar III plant will 
replace existing power barges based on reciprocating engines at the cus-tomer’s location in the capital city Santo Domingo. Using combined cycle gas turbine technology will in-crease efficiency and lower emis-sions, which is especially important in built-up areas.
Due to site constraints with limited 
free land and Seaboard’s experience with previous power barges, the plant owner selected a SCC-800 2x1 Sea-Float concept with two Siemens SGT-800 gas turbines and one SST-600 steam turbine. 
This first SeaFloat project is ad-
vancing smoothly. Power plant equip-ment is expected to leave Siemens’ manufacturing facilities shortly so that erection at the shipyard can begin soon after. The plant will be connected to the grid of the Dominican Republic in the spring of 2021.
And with the first order secured, 
Siemens expects others will follow soon.  “We are involved in many ac-tivities all around the world. There could be orders from any country – from the US to Asia, where we are currently supporting customers. We are not limited to any specific country; there are a lot of opportunities.”
Siemens will also continue to de-
velop the technology. As Hossain concluded: “Siemens always takes an evolutionary approach as opposed to a revolutionary approach. So we are continuously checking our design, receiving feedback from execution teams – both land-based and those that will be in the Dominican Repub-lic – and feeding it back into our team. This will allow us to continue im-proving our solution, so that each customer can expect the highest quality SeaFloat application based on the experience of our fleet. 
Special Technology Supplement
The SCC-8000H SeaFloat can replace a large coal fired power plant in a region with available grid capability
Types of SeaFloat plants  
 Length (m)  W idth (m)  Area (m²)  Net power  Efficiency (%)
    output (MW)
2x SSC-A65 (50/60 Hz)
 ~50 
 ~22 
 ~1.100
 147/151
 55/55.3
SCC-800 2x1 
 ~55 
 ~30 
 ~1.650
 149.4
 56.6
SCC-800 3x1 
 ~65 
 ~40 
 ~2.600
 224.4
 56.6
SCC-800 4x1 
 ~75 
 ~40 
 ~3.000
 299.3
 56.7
SCC5-8000H 1x1 (50/60 Hz)
 ~170 
 ~60 
 ~10.200
 665/460
 61
SCC5-8000H 2x1 (50/60 Hz)
 ~170 
 ~90 
 ~15.300
 1330/930
 61
Note: SSC = Siemens simple cycle; SCC = Siemens combined cycle
Reliable technology – 
dependable partner.
Since 1990, Siemens has completed over 500 turnkey power
plants with total output exceeding 155,000 megawatts. Withmore than 7,000 installed gas turbines in over 100 countries, weare the leading original equipment manufacturer – not only forthis technology but for all plant needs throughout the lifetimeof the asset. With the right ideas, innovations and know-how weare the dependable partner of our customers.
Reliable energy for today –  
and for generations to come.
siemens.com/power-generation