siemens-energy.com/seafloat
Key benefits
 Smallest footprint of a world class
combined cycle power plant
 Highest quality with low CAPEX
 Easy installations due to pre-
designed solutions and plug & play
concept
 Low OPEX based on easy and fast
service concept
 Low emissions
 No soil risks
 High degree of flexibility on siting
 Flexible design (Barge, FSRP, FPSO
or gravity-based solution GBS)
 Construction of the power plants in
controlled shipyard environment
with qualified labor, high erection
quality and lower erection risk
 Outstanding advantages compared
to reciprocating engine concepts in
terms of efficiency and emissionsThe SCC-800 SeaFloat plant utilizes the advanced and robust
industrial SGT-800 gas turbine designed for combined cycle
applications with the highest possible efficiency
Short project duration
The high degree of modularized design and
delivery, based on pre-assembled and pre-
tested plant modules, minimizes both the
manpower required at the yard and the hook
up and commissioning time at final location.
Typical fields of application
New power generation installations based on
liquified natural gas (LNG) and expansion of
industrial applications in remote coastal
areas are the most prominent SGT-800 based
SeaFloat solutions. The SCC-800 is a perfect
fit for the provision of baseload power to
public or industrial grids in remote parts of
the world.Less project risks
Risks resulting from brown field activities
such as demolition works, site leveling
activities, relocation of existing structure can
be avoided by using SeaFloat power plants.
Due to fabrication and assembly offsite,
project progress is not dependent on
availability of qualified labor and
infrastructure at the final plant location.
SeaFloat may also be the right choice in case
land acquisition is expensive or simply not
available.
Reliability and easy maintenance
Core engine exchange within 48 hours and
on-board maintenance concepts ensure
highest availability.SeaFloat Power Plants
SGT-800 Based Solution
©Siemens Energy 2022
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens

siemens-energy.com/seafloat
SCC-800 2x1 SCC-800 3x1 SCC-800 4x1
Gross plant output
MW(e)~147 ~221 ~297
Gross plant
efficiency (%)~56 ~56 ~56
Emissions, NOx,
[ppmV / mg/Nm3]<25 / 51.3 @ 15% O2
(50-100% GT load)
Emissions, CO,
[ppmV / mg/Nm3]<5 / 6.3 @ 15% O2
(50-100% GT load)
Published by © Siemens Energy 2022| Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG
For information only. Not guaranteed. Actual results are dependent on-site specifics. Subject to changes and provided on an “as is” basis without any expressed or implied representation or warranty
of any kind and without any verification as to accuracy, suitability, or completeness. Terms subject to a final contract between the parties. Actual benefits and results are dependent on a variety of
factors such as plant specification, site specifics, operational profile, and local market conditions.
Installed performance at:
 25°C ambient air temperature
 25°C sea water temperature
 60% relative humidity
 Sea water temp. rise [°K] <10
 Gas fuel supply 30 Bar(a), 25ºC, 48.6 MJ/kg LHV (Siemens Energy standard gas composition)
 At generator terminals, (transformation and auxiliary losses to be deducted)SGT-800 Package – 295 tons, 22m x 4.7m x 5.3m
(length, width, height)
The 3-point mount package is a complete skid-
mounted train consisting of gas turbine, mechanical
auxiliaries, gear box, generator, and generator
switch gear.SST-600 Package – 475 tons, 25m x 7.0m x 5.5m
(length, width, height)
The 3-point mount package is a complete skid-
mounted train consisting of steam turbine,
condenser with evacuation, generator, and
generator switch gear.HRSG and Balance of Plant
The design concept of the balance of plant is
based on Siemens Energy proven booster pump
configuration optimized for SeaFloat applications.
In-house HRSG SeaFloat design results in a
harmonized overall plant concept.
Take a virtual walk through our SCC-800 2x1