Instrumentation & 
Controls Monitors and 
Advisors
Whitepapersiemens-energy.com/icma

© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2Market-driven change and 
digitalization
Energy markets around the world are both liberalizing 
and being heavily affected by the rise of renewables. For 
power generation companies, availability is now more 
important than ever, as plants designed for steady state 
running are increasingly used for top-up power. Security 
has also become a far more urgent topic, with power 
generation in most countries being deﬁ  ned as critical 
national infrastructure and subject to much tougher 
regulations than in the past. 
These key industry challenges require major changes 
to operational methods, core systems and use of data, 
which is why digitalization is rapidly becoming a basic 
necessity for power generation businesses:  
• Companies can now use real-time operational data 
to monitor and analyze performance indicators. This 
enables them to base decisions, not on the balance 
of probabilities, but on genuine insights and oper-
ational intelligence, generated by the systems and 
assets themselves. • Human expertise and capabilities, increasingly costly 
and scarce, can now be pooled across multiple assets, 
leading to improved cost-efﬁ  ciency, greater consis-
tency, fewer human errors and better coordination 
between production, ﬁ  nance and market demands.
• Maintenance regimes are less about theoretical life 
cycles and more about a proactive, predictive approach, 
based on having early warning about potential issues 
before they have the chance to become problems. 
• Security is no longer just about the physical environ-
ment, based on high fences and regular foot patrols. 
Security now means managing internet connectivity, 
guarding against cyber-attacks and providing audit 
data to satisfy growing demands from government 
regulations.
To gain an idea of how much data is now available, all 
we have to do is identify the number of sensors in the 
average large power generation plant and multiply this 
ﬁ  gure by the number of times each sensor reports its 
condition via the DCS. In a large plant, it is likely that 
many millions of data points will be logged by the control 
system each day. The volume is simply overwhelming, 
making it hard to make best use of these data, if man-
aged in a conventional way. 
To take one example alone, alerts can be reported 
across the plant many hundreds of times a day, making 
it impossible for hard-pressed engineers to investigate 
even a fraction of these to check whether or not many, 
or even any of these alerts should be considered a true 
alarm. Put simply, there is no point in monitoring data 
ﬂ  ows unless we can also analyze these data to ensure 
that we truly understand what they mean. Only then can we start to optimize performance and 
unlock the potential beneﬁ  ts. This is exactly why Siemens 
Energy has developed its Instrumentation & Controls 
Monitors and Advisors (ICMA) service: providing easy to 
access, practical help that engineering, market-facing 
and maintenance staff need to make effective use of 
digital technologies. The energy marketplace across the world is evolving fast, and power generation
companies need greater ﬂ  exibility to stay competitive. 
Power generation company management can now access a wealth of new data, which 
brings huge opportunities but also involves signiﬁ  cant challenges. 

© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 3Introducing: Instrumentation 
& Controls Monitors and
Advisors (ICMA)
To operate as efﬁ  ciently as possible, power generation 
businesses need to make the true condition of their 
plant, their assets and every individual component fully 
transparent and easy to understand. Given the size and 
complexity of a large plant, this is an extremely difﬁ  cult 
requirement. 
In addition, as human expertise becomes scarcer, more in 
demand and, therefore, more costly, business leadership 
needs access to best practice insights and advice, even 
if they cannot afford to maintain these skills in-house. The Siemens Energy ICMA service adds value to a com-
pany’s investment in its DCS by turning high volume, 
rich data ﬂ  ows into actionable intelligence. We do this 
by Monitoring data on a 24 hour basis, Analyzing
these data against targets and KPIs, and then Advising
customers by making recommendations for optimization 
and remedial actions, according to the scope of work 
within the agreed service parameters. 
In this way, the Siemens Energy ICMA service provides 
real transparency across key operational areas, deliv-
ering insights that help power generation businesses 
to make better-informed decisions and contribute to 
competitive advantage. Turning operational data into useful information to improve availability and security 
for your plant. 
Collect Transfer Process Deliver
1. Collect
Bringing together sensor 
meter, DCS and, increasingly, 
Industrial Internet of Thing 
(IIoT) data from power plant 
or other complex production 
infrastructures.2. Transfer
As processing takes place 
within the virtualized 
datacenter based on the 
AWS platform Siemens 
Energy securely transfers 
data from customer sites 
to the analytical engine. 3. Process
The algorithms used to 
analyze customer data and 
the customer data lake are 
housed in the Siemens 
Energy-specific environ-
ment in a defined AWS 
cloud location. 4. Deliver
The algorithms used to analyze 
customer data and the cus-
tomer data lake are housed in 
the Siemens Energy-specific 
environment in a defined AWS 
cloud location. 
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 4Siemens Energy has structured its service to deliver 
practical beneﬁ  ts to customers, formatted to suit their 
individual needs. We have done this by bringing together 
three key characteristics of digital services within the 
same value proposition:Managing challenges, delivering beneﬁ  ts. INTRODUCING ICMA Unlocking the potential of
connected, digital technologies
By developing a fully cloud-based and enabled service, 
Siemens Energy and its global ICT strategic partner, 
Amazon Web Services (AWS), provide the full beneﬁ  ts 
of online services to all customers, while removing 
many if not most of the challenges. 
Private Cloud
The ICMA service is delivered from a Private 
Cloud environment hosted in a well-de-
ﬁ  ned data center, in a known location that 
complies with the appropriate national 
regulations. This enables high efﬁ  ciency, 
cost-effective delivery of an expert ser-
vice to customers in any market, while 
ensuring that security regulations are 
strictly observed and assured. The cloud 
platform is, in effect, inﬁ  nitely scalable, 
enabling the service delivered to ﬂ  ex in 
order to cover all customer demands as 
they grow and evolve. Dashboards
The true and current status of all assets 
and systems covered by the service is 
presented to operational personnel and 
management, in a form that will vary 
according to the service level speciﬁ  ed. 
As a minimum, data analytics generates 
reports every 24 hours to ensure that 
customer personnel are up to speed with 
current status, all the time. Scaling
The service is designed for ﬂ  exible scal-
ing to meet customer requirements, 
so individual customers can deter-
mine the level of support they require. 
This can range from once-a-year touch-
points to daily input, with detailed rec-
ommendations for action, if required. 
Customers can always stay in control 
of the service levels they require, and 
the costs they believe are appropriate. 
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 5As the ICMA service has become more mature since 
its initial launch in 2017, more and more data are now 
available concerning performance, and the case for 
cloud is clear, with the potential to deliver some key 
advantages to customers.
Cloud clearly delivers large-scale cost advantages, allied 
to signiﬁ  cant quality beneﬁ  ts.
• Cloud hosted and delivered services, such as ICMA, 
are inherently less costly than a comparable service 
hosted on an in-house environment. This makes the Siemens Energy ICMA service cost-effective when 
compared with alternatives. 
• It is now no longer necessary to purchase, maintain 
and incur the costs of ownership for large server and 
storage farms, eliminating capital costs. 
• Instead, the service is built from existing components, 
owned and maintained by AWS, and always kept at 
global best practice level. Customers can therefore now 
access a sophisticated and highly advanced service at 
a lower cost than could otherwise be possible.Siemens Energy recognizes that moving to a cloud service is a major step for 
many power generation businesses, and may lead to some concerns about
security, privacy and availability. INTRODUCING ICMA
The solution maximizes the full potential of AWS and 
Siemens Energy, while tailoring the service to each 
individual customer. In this way, Siemens Energy pro-
vides a service that complies with national regulations 
concerning data storage and processing, and delivers 
the precisely deﬁ  ned and managed outcomes that 
even the most demanding customers require. 
The private cloud solution designed and implemented 
by Siemens Energy is exceptionally secure. 
• Hosting is provided in a private, Siemens Energy 
managed space within the hyperscale cloud platform 
built and operated by AWS, the world leader in this 
ﬁ  eld. The sheer scale of resources dedicated to a 
cloud platform built for global leadership provides exceptionally robust levels of security, capable of 
dealing effectively with continuously developing 
threat vectors. 
• Within this extremely secure environment, Siemens 
Energy applies its own rules, security protocols and 
processes, ﬁ  ne-tuned to the speciﬁ  c needs of the 
power generation industry. 
• Finally, the data are managed so that each individual 
customer only has access to their own results. In this 
way they have auditable proof of full compliance 
with regulations in force within each jurisdiction 
where they operate, together with secure channels 
for data transfer.
Siemens Energy is able to work with customers to ensure 
that their own service costs are extremely competitive, 
making the service delivered highly cost-effective. 
The cloud-based service offered by Siemens Energy also 
breaks new ground in availability, as the service can scale 
at short notice to cover virtually any requirement, thereby 
managing even rapid changes speciﬁ  ed by customers. 
The ICMA service typically has a short lead time, as no 
on-site hardware or personnel are required, enabling the service to be operational in days, rather than months. The 
level of service can then be ﬁ  ne-tuned to suit individual 
customer preferences, with reviews, reports and plant 
contacts ranging from as little as once or twice a year 
through to daily touchpoints. 
Data forms the lifeblood of effective digital services, but 
data are only useful if presented in a way that leads to 
business insight and actionable intelligence. The Siemens 
Energy ICMA service provides customers with exactly 
these beneﬁ  ts. 
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 6The Siemens Energy ICMA service provides insights on 
ﬁ  ve major areas of concern, which are common to all 
power generation businesses. By focusing on these ﬁ  ve 
topics, we ensure that customers can maximize resources, optimize their processes and take practical steps to im-
prove availability. These are critical to success in changing 
energy markets. The current ﬁ  ve services are: The Service Portfolio
Covering most key areas of concern, simply and effectively.
The I&C Archive service enables customer engineers 
to understand the nature of the alerts they receive and 
then fine-tune their own assets and rules to reduce 
and eventually help eliminate unnecessary alarms. In 
a complex environment, there is a continual risk that 
alerts can overwhelm the team of engineers charged 
with managing and optimizing performance, even more 
when a single team is managing a ﬂ  eet of plants from a 
one control center. Worse, it is very hard to understand 
what is causing many of these alerts without conducting 
the kind of time-consuming investigations that most 
companies are no longer able to afford. Without precise and accurate knowledge, engineers risk 
either wasting large amounts of time in following up 
every alert or, potentially worse, become used to switch-
ing off alerts and ignoring them. Many alerts happen 
as a matter of course during start-up, for example. It 
can become something of a habit 
to ignore these, and then possibly 
miss one that appears routine but 
could be the precursor to a serious 
operational problem. Management 
needs accurate information, with the 
ability to change settings to elimi-
nate alerts that are not important, 
without missing those that are.
This task has been compared with 
ﬁ  nding a needle in a haystack, and 
then very carefully removing that 
needle. Designing core functions 
may require many thousands of logic 
diagrams, and the action causing 
any individual alert could be locat-
ed in any one of those diagrams. 
Working through them individually 
is not a practical option, which is 
why the automated approach tak-
en by Siemens Energy can be such 
a game-changer for hard-pressed 
engineering staff. 
The Siemens Energy I&C Archive service monitors assets 
and identiﬁ  es exactly which settings are causing alerts, 
presenting the results in an easy to understand dashboard 
for review by engineering staff. A typical consolidated 
dashboard view is shown in the graphic left. In simple 
terms, this shows the number of alerts generated within 
the total environment and identiﬁ  es the potential for 
optimization. 1. I&C Archive
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 7A key potential beneﬁ  t of digitalization is the ability to 
understand the true condition of assets, enabling more 
rational and proactive maintenance regimes and the 
ability to intervene in cases of need before a future asset 
failure turns into an availability problem. One part of the
I&C Condition service monitors the DCS and the data 
collected by it to identify abnormal patterns of behav-
ior and possible weaknesses before failure happens. A 
second part ensures that customers are kept up to date 
with the latest information on updates and patches – 
including security patches. 
The image to the right shows 
a typical customer dashboard 
view of asset condition, pro-
viding a top-level guide to ar-
eas of potential concern, while 
enabling operational staff to 
develop a more proactive strat-
egy for intervention, as needed. 
Asset condition is a critically 
important factor for assured 
availability, which is, of course, 
the key to operational viability 
in today’s more ﬂ  exible market 
environments. Condition data is 
crucial for ensuring that there 
are no surprises and no instanc-
es of unplanned downtime. The 
Siemens Energy I&C Conditioning Monitor uses real and 
always current operational data to identify the status 
of all monitored assets. The top-level dashboard view 
immediately ﬂ  ags up any areas of concern, identifying 
assets that are operating outside the agreed norms, to-
gether with insights concerning their criticality, location and the seriousness of any potential fault.
 Customer personnel can then use the Advisor function 
to go deeper into the details. This is supplemented by 
Siemens Energy Support Service recommendations to 
prevent potential failures of individual components. 
The service thus displays speciﬁ  c information tailored 
to the plant conﬁ  guration together with corresponding 
recommendations for action. Correctly conﬁ  gured and 
used, the service reduces the probability of unplanned 
downtimes and thus enables maintenance work to be 
carried out at economically reasonable intervals.  Avail-
ability levels are increased and maintenance managers 
can adopt a truly more proactive strategy, minimizing 
surprises and signiﬁ  cantly improving availability.Detailed analysis of alert patterns commonly reveals 
that the root causes of most alarms can be traced back 
to a limited number of assets and sensors, and in many 
cases relates to inappropriate tolerances defined by 
existing rules. Drilling down into the tool provided for 
Optimization Potential can reveal where these issues 
lie. By addressing these, making moderate, targeted 
alterations, it is possible to eliminate the great majority 
of alerts. This avoids wasting the time of often very busy 
personnel, while it also ensures that true alarms are not 
hidden in the “noise” but are spotted at once.The Siemens Energy I&C Archive solution is based on 
specialized algorithms, built using our own unique 
experience gained as a result of having the world’s larg-
est installed base of assets. This simpliﬁ  es the task of 
identifying where inappropriate settings are leading to 
signiﬁ  cant operational problems, and has been proven to 
reduce the number of alerts by up to 80%. In one recent 
customer case, we discovered that 43% of all alerts were 
generated by just 10 signals. Systematically reviewing 
tolerances for these signals cut alert workload almost 
in half, right away.
2. I&C Condition

© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 8
In a connected world, security increasingly means protec-
tion against cyber-attacks and data theft, rather than phys-
ical safeguarding of a site and its assets. As recent events 
have shown, power generation plants are increasingly 
becoming frontline targets for a range of criminal actors.
The I&C Security service provides effective insights 
concerning weaknesses in existing systems, remedies 
that should be applied and clarity about suspicious ac-
tivities that might suggest targeting from outside. The 
I&C Security service monitors and analyzes data gathered 
by the DCS to identify security-related weaknesses and 
threats, then presents these to customers via performance 
indicators on dashboards.  A simpliﬁ  ed dashboard view 
is shown in the diagram below. This approach highlights areas of concern, while proactive recommendations 
are delivered for remedial action. This dashboard view 
focuses on antivirus, security patch and security event 
status. It shows at a glance the number and variety of 
possible issues. As with every aspect of the ICMA service, 
customer specialist staff can then drill into data to access 
the advisory service. This gives access 
to Siemens Energy’ exceptional breadth 
and depth of security expertise, making 
it easier to take rapid action to deal with 
threats and, more important perhaps, 
to ensure that the entire power plant 
environment is fully secured against 
those threats in the ﬁ  rst place. 
The service, therefore, is designed to 
identify weaknesses early, before they 
can become serious problems for the 
customer, and enables advance planning 
of measures to deal with cyber threats. 
The ultimate aim is to minimize the risk 
of downtime due to cyber-attacks and 
thereby safeguard availability. Security in 
the context of power generation requires 
a deep knowledge of both IT systems and 
threats, OT systems and, most crucially, 
the interfaces between the two. Siemens Energy is one of 
the few companies in the ﬁ  eld with the required levels of 
expertise in all these areas. That is how we can provide 
an integrated, robust cyber service that safeguards the 
complete asset and systems base from small to even the 
largest power generation business.3. I&C Security
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 9The I&C Lifecycle service gives customers access to the 
insights they need to manage their assets more efﬁ  ciently, 
reducing the risk of unplanned downtime, while foster-
ing a proactive maintenance policy. The service gathers 
and analyzes data related to hardware components in 
the plant to give a continuous appreciation of current 
condition and future lifecycle. An example of a lifecycle dashboard is shown below. Lifecycle data is critical for 
enabling a strategic move to proactive maintenance, 
which is a key requirement for companies that are tar-
geting full availability to meet contractual obligations 
and proﬁ  t from ﬂ  exible market The dashboard shows 
information about the lifecycle status of components in 
the plant. It indicates the maintenance necessity and so 4. I&C Lifecycle
ing a proactive maintenance policy. The service gathers 
 geting full availability to meet contractual obligations 

© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 10
contributes to the availability of the plant. The dashboard 
also shows components that are already obsolete, those 
that are becoming obsolescent and those that are still 
within their expected lifecycles. The data displayed in 
a top-level form, moves from red (obsolete), through 
yellow (obsolescent, soon to become obsolete), to green 
(still serviceable).
These insights enable customers to plan a rational and 
efﬁ  cient schedule for parts acquisition, planned down-
time for maintenance and eventually for replacement. 
The service helps maintenance departments to move 
from a reactive to a predictive schedule, reducing costs 
through efﬁ  ciency gains, while enabling higher levels 
of availability. The real power of the service becomes 
clear from the more detailed advisory service, as shown 
in the diagram above.By switching into the advisory view, maintenance and 
management teams can review the component options 
available to them. It makes clear if a like for like replace-
ment option is available and when such components are 
in stock. It also shows well in advance when no replace-
ment is available owing to assets being discontinued, 
redesigned or altered in some way. In such cases there 
may be a need for some re-engineering in order to re-
place a component with a different release, leading to 
downtime and costs that have to be considered, modelled 
and planned with care. Proactive maintenance goes far 
beyond simply deciding on the best, or least disruptive 
moments for planned downtime. This strategy can also 
lead to the need for scenario planning detailed modelling 
and major decisions about long-term investments. The 
simplest, fastest and most logical way to start a strategic 
move to this new way of working comes from Siemens 
Energy ICMA Lifecycle services.
Perhaps the greatest of all digitalization beneﬁ  ts is the 
way it enables optimization of performance right across 
the business. The I&C Process Optimization service is 
designed to do exactly that by monitoring and analyzing 
data gathered by the DCS to provide current insights on 
operational performance and asset, component and 
overall plant behavior. In practice, therefore, it combines 
elements from all of the other ICMA services, providing 
insights and actionable information that permit several 
processes within the power plant to be critically examined 
and improved. The Emissions and Efﬁ  ciency Dashboard to 
the right shows how this approach works at the top level.
The process optimization solution today is especially 
tuned for use in combined cycle plants, which were 
originally designed for steady state running, but where changing market conditions require faster ramp-up and 
more frequent start-stop cycles, without risking additional 
emissions. In such plants, which have been the backbone 
of national grids across the world for many years, the 
need to investigate every part of the start-stop cycles is 
urgent and important. 
In one leading European power generation business, 
for example, joint working by customer engineers (both 
those based on site and remotely), together with a Sie-
mens Energy specialist team, improved the efﬁ  ciency 
and reliability of processes in a combined cycle plant to 
deliver assured availability under operating conditions 
for which it was not originally designed. The plant had 
moved from around 45 stop cycles in the average year 
to more than 300, and from delivering 8,000 hours of 5. I&C Process Optimization
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 11
energy to just 2,000 as top-up power. This 
radical change in operational status has been 
achieved without breaking any contractual 
obligations and while reducing emissions 
during the start-stop cycles. 
The previous screenshot shows an example of 
how the solution puts forward speciﬁ  c recom-
mendations for optimal running, based on the 
detailed responses received across a range of 
processes. This shows how data generated by 
sensors across the plant have led to insights 
that are presented in role-based views within 
customer dashboards. The service enables 
customers to review existing processes and 
critically examine how they perform under 
current market conditions, and then identify 
areas for improvement. Through advanced sce-
nario planning, based on detailed models that 
use true, current operational data, customer 
engineers gain an unprecedented ability to 
identify how sometimes quite minor changes 
can lead to better-performing processes.
As an example, in the Advisor view shown, the processes 
data is automatically ﬁ  ltered, analyzed and neatly pre-
sented here, classiﬁ  ed into 10 different headings, such 
as load bands between minimum load and maximum 
load of the power plant. Process Optimization is where 
the complete portfolio of ICMA services most clearly 
delivers competitive advantage to customers that need 
to maximize the potential of existing investments in 
changed markets. The service is pragmatic and practical, 
understanding that companies cannot replace existing 
investments, but instead need to optimize and enhance 
how they operate. 
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 12
Digital technologies are transforming the way that power 
generation businesses design their processes, structure 
their businesses, recruit and manage their expert staff 
and compete in markets that are becoming increasing-
ly unpredictable. To stay in business within extremely 
competitive markets, companies must ensure that their 
plants are ready to come online exactly when required. 
This puts a real premium on asset reliability, proactive 
maintenance, real-time insights on plant condition and 
active, expert guidance on practical decision-making. 
The technology is only the start, in other words: the true 
value of the solution lies, ﬁ  rst, in the ability to build a 
service that is precisely crafted to the needs of each 
individual company and second, in access to unrivalled 
know-how, experience and capability. The track record 
and capability represented by Siemens Energy, after all, 
are truly unique. Siemens Energy has been in existence 
for over 170 years and has been a leading industrial 
innovator throughout that time. In the power genera-
tion ﬁ  eld, Siemens Energy now has over 1,500 plants in 
operation, with 55GW of power in our own ﬂ  eet, directly 
operated by Siemens Energy. All of our own capacity 
uses ICMA services. 
The Siemens Energy ICMA service provides access to an 
exceptionally strong and useful level of basic services, 
in which data collected by and from the plant DCS are 
analyzed and presented to users. Without any form of 
extra input, this service will provide essential insights that 
enable power generation companies to raise their games 
signiﬁ  cantly. Yet this is only the start of what many companies are 
ﬁ  nding is a relationship that delivers exceptional added 
value. No service provider in the industry comes close to 
possessing the long-term experience, depth of technol-
ogy know-how and consulting insights that are derived 
from access to the richest store of real-world operating 
data available anywhere in the industry. This expertise 
covers OT as well as IT, enabling us to design and manage 
solutions that are fully integrated across the complex 
landscape of power generation technology. 
When customers start to engage more closely, building 
an interactive relationship with Siemens Energy inside 
the framework of ICMA, the data insights that come as 
standard are enriched by recommendations, additional 
knowledge, fresh thinking and innovations that can 
prove transformational. 
Currently, ICMA services are in use at more than 100 
plants of leading power generation companies in North 
and South America, Europe, North Africa, the Middle 
East, Southeast Asia and Australia. The companies 
working with Siemens Energy as service provider have 
access to a level of knowledge and experience that is 
growing continuously, building a virtuous circle in which 
each new customer insight adds value to the services 
all customers receive. 
Digitalization has the potential to change almost ev-
erything that power generation companies do, but it 
requires data monitoring and detailed analysis, feeding 
into the expert advisory services that drive continuous 
service improvement.  Unrivaled experience and capability
Tapping into the power and experience of a digital industry leader.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 13
Summary
The above ICMA service modules offer a comprehensive, 
integrated solution that builds on existing investment in 
DCS and sensors to enhance options, reduce costs and 
improve availability, all within a service scope tailored 
to the precise needs of individual customers.
Published by and copyright © 2021
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
The technical data presented in this document is based on an actual 
case or on as-designed parameters, and therefore should not be relied 
upon for any specific application and does not constitute a performance 
guarantee for any projects. Actual results are dependent on variable 
conditions. Accordingly, Siemens does not make representations, 
warranties, or assurances as to the accuracy, currency or completeness 
of the content contained herein. If requested, we will provide specific 
technical data or specifications with respect to any customer‘s particular 
applications. Our company is constantly involved in engineering and 
development. For that reason, we reserve the right to modify, at any 
time, the technology and product specifications contained herein.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use 
by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the 
owners.