According to the International Energy Agency (IEA) , the 
steel and iron industry stands as the world’s most
significant emitter of CO2 among heavy industries, 
contributing to approximately 7% of global emissions (IEA, 
2020).
It is known as a hard-to-abate industry because coal is not 
only used as a heating source, but it is an essential part of 
the chemical reaction to reduce iron ore into iron in the
blast furnace. However, there are different technologies 
available to reduce the climate impacts related to steel 
production. There is no doubt, implementing these 
technologies requires significant investments and time to 
implement  – a green steel transition. A transition requires 
support from other enabling industries. For the green steel 
transition two ingredients are urgently needed – renewable 
energy and hydrogen.
Consequently, the transition can be considered a marathon 
that needs many steps to get to the finish line. Today, the 
first steps have already been taken. Many companies in the 
steel industry are maximizing efficiency, improving 
circularity, and getting the transition process started while 
more comprehensive infrastructural changes are being 
defined and initiated. These intermediary improvements
are reflected through the introduction of new low-emission 
steel or green steel  product lines by using the mass
balance approach.The potential of the mass balance approach
The mass balance method is used to assign emission 
reductions or the share of sustainable feedstocks to a 
portion of the entire production – a greener product line. 
The greener products have the same quality and properties 
as those made from fossil-based materials, but the 
sustainability improvements are allocated to a specific 
production segment. This is done because it is often  
impossible to have a physical segregation of the greener 
product lines from the traditional product lines. The mass 
balance approach allows for an allocation of overall 
emission reductions to a CO2-reduced product. In support 
of decarbonization efforts, developing demand for greener 
products can demonstrate viable business models and 
de-risks investments, thereby catalyzing the costly 
transition of manufacturing infrastructure.Stepping up green steel transition efforts 
using the mass balance approach
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 1
However, the mass balance approach comes with its fair 
share of criticism and is not accepted under some 
standards. Its potential for double counting and 
continuation of fossil-fuel-based material feedstocks  
constitutes the primary reasons for transparency issues and 
doubts. This lack of alignment and the lack of clarity in the 
verifiability of a product carbon footprint or life cycle 
assessment when using the mass balance method for green 
steel has inhibited the adoption of green steel, and there -
fore, it has limited the markets’ ability to demonstrate 
support for transition steps for cleaner production.
The role of mass balancing in supply chain 
decarbonization
To manage decarbonization along the supply chain, it is 
crucial to distinguish between corporate and product 
carbon footprints. The corporate carbon footprint is the 
sum of all carbon emissions related to the activities of a 
company along the value chain, while the product carbon 
footprint is the sum of all carbon emissions related to the 
lifecycle of an individual product.
While both of them are closely related to defining the 
actual impact of a company, significant improvements at 
the corporate level may not always translate directly to the 
product level or are difficult to allocate back to individual 
products. Targeting and achieving significant greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emission reductions at the corporate level is 
essential and goes beyond simple measures like replacing 
light bulbs. The mass balancing approach can serve as a 
mechanism to make investments in the green transition, 
rewarding and driving the change needed on the product 
level.
And we can see that mass balancing is neither new nor 
exclusive to the steel industry. It is well-established within 
the chemical industry, for bio-based and circular materials, 
and in the renewable energy sector. 
For example, renewable electricity markets are essentially    
a form of mass balancing, demonstrating that renewable 
quantities are tracked and allocated to a specific product, 
not resulting necessarily in 100% renewable electricity 
reaching end customers’ homes or facilities. Figure 1 : The mass balance 
approach along the green steel 
supply chain
To enable a functioning 
market based on a mass 
balancing approach, it is of 
key importance to define 
clear requirements.
The International 
Sustainability & Carbon 
Certification (ISCC) 
initiative has defined 
specific regulations for the 
chain of custody tracking
and reporting for sustainable inputs and the attribution of 
these to a specific product line (ISCC, n.d.). Additionally, a 
mass balance tracking system is prescribed in the EU Re-
newable Energy Directive (RED)  for bio-based fuels used 
to reach clean energy targets (European Union, 2018).
These examples demonstrate the potential to apply the 
mass balance approach to quantify sustainability attributes 
in a systematic manner that is transparent and verifiable.
Our game-changing plan: Forging alliances 
for low-emission steel production
At Siemens Energy  Grid Technologies, I see us playing a 
vital role in this transition as early adopters of emerging 
greener product lines to fulfil our decarbonization commit-
ments and the commitments from our industry. Through 
our products and procurement, we link our customers’ 
demands for improved product sustainability with our 
suppliers’ initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and steadily 
advance towards our goal of a 30% reduction in supply 
chain emissions by 2030.
Our world cannot wait any longer, and we need to drive 
incremental improvements along the supply chain step by 
step. Therefore, as a company with high requirements for 
steel in our products, we have established a strategic 
partnership with thyssenkrupp  for bluemint steel, their 
steel with lower carbon emissions, which is based on the 
mass balance method. We understand the shortcomings of 
the mass balancing approach. However, as an original 
equipment manufacturer (OEM) linking raw material 
suppliers and transmission system operators (TSOs), we 
want to help find the appropriate methodology that 
recognizes the suppliers’ decarbonization steps while 
ensuring environmental impact claims are transparent and 
verifiable for ourselves and our customers.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 2
Stepping up grid decarbonization: 
Leading the change at Siemens Energy 
Grid Technologies
Accordingly, this is our motivation for taking proactive steps 
to advance our decarbonization efforts, which include 
writing together with our steel supplier, thyssenkrupp, a 
CIGRE  paper about the use of low-emission steel in 
transformers and its impact evaluation, supporting with
a thesis project to establish a transparent reporting 
framework and participating in a joint industry project with 
DNV to standardize Lifecycle Assessments for large power 
transformers.
It is critical to note that the mass balance approach is just 
one tool in the transition to a more circular and climate-re-
sponsive economy. Without long-term decarbonization 
commitments, roadmaps, and actionable plans, these 
intermediary steps are insufficient. Ultimately, mass 
balance calculations and associated product lines must 
function as a near-term step on a dedicated path towards 
full decarbonization and environmentally responsible 
production. It is therefore imperative for all stakeholders to 
collaborate closely to overcome the technological and 
economic challenges and create the market conditions 
necessary for a successful green steel transition.
This article was written by Christina Iosifidou with support and review of Dr. 
Dieter Vollkommer, Katie Schwind, and Ankita Mazumder as well as in coopera-
tion with Maximilian Schnippering (Siemens Gamesa), Dr. Marie Jaroni 
(thyssenkrupp) and Marcel Hilgers (thyssenkrupp).
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 3
 Sources
IEA (2020). Iron and Steel Technology Roadmap.
URL: https://www.iea.org/reports/iron-and-steel-technology-roadmap
ISCC (n.d.). The Mass Balance Approach. URL: https://www.iscc-sys-
tem.org/certification/chain-of-custody/mass-balance/
European Union (2018). Directive (EU) 2018/2001 of the European Parlia -
ment and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the 
use of energy from renewable sources. URL: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/le-
gal-content/EN/T XT/?uri=uris-
erv:O J.L_.2018.328.01.0082.01.ENG&toc =OJ:L:2018:328:TOC
© 2024 Siemens Energy    Page 4
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Grid Technologies  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany 
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/transmission
or contact us: support.energy@siemens-energy.com
© 2024 Siemens Energy
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, lnc. 
Grid Technologies  
8841 Wadford Drive  
Raleigh, NC  
USA 
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 5
