© 2022 Siemens Energy
Welcome to Transmission Service
It does not matter, what kind of challenge is arising
with your installed based equipment, our Transmission
Service Team will be available to support you.
We can offer analysis, consulting, planning, technical
offers, order execution as well as emergency support!
Transmission Service – tailormade solutions for you.
We will help you to keep your Transmission Equipment 
in good shape and ready for tomorrow’s requirements 
by using well known and new technologies. 
Transmission Service takes care for environmental is-
sues and resource-saving usage of our technologies by 
not scrapping equipment but keeping it up to date.
Transmission Service is not only rebuilding or supplying 
spares, but also puts a focus on trendsetting technolo-
gies and services by for example introducing also elec-
tronic monitoring systemssiemens-energy.com/t-serviceTrans mission
Service
Siemens Energy Transmission Service is your 
local partner for your current and future 
transmission enhancement projects.
© 2022 Siemens Energy
What we do
Field and Maintenance Service
 Time- and condition based maintenance
 Global network of trained experts
Repair and Emergency Service
 Initial on-site investigation & recommendation
 On-call 24/7 1st, 2nd and 3rd level support
Spare Parts Service
 Recommended planned & unplanned spares
 OEM approved
Modernize and Retrofit Service
 Upgrades & uprated solutions
 Extension of existing installationsDigital Service
 Condition monitoring, online real-time analysis
 24/7 Remote Diagnostic Center
Training Service
 Customized training packages
 Certification via approved training centers
Support and Consulting Service
 On-site condition assessment & recommendations
 Vendor-independent consulting
Service Contract Models
 Your trusted partner for tailor-made packages
 Flexible suite of on-demand services
Published by © 2022 Siemens Energy
Transmission Service
Humboldtstr. 64
90459 Nuremberg, Germany
Customer Support Center
Phone: +49 911 6505 6505
E-Mail: support@siemens-energy.com
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com/t-service
“Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this docu-
ment only contains general descriptions and/or performance features 
which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which 
may undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.”
 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.