siemens-energy.com/factsGrid Stabilization
We make the energy transition happen
Wind turbines
ElectrolyserBatteries and
storage solutions
E-mobility Solar panels
1 Challenges in changing grids  
Page 4
2 Complexity in grid stabilizing  
Page 8
2.1 Voltage stability
2.2 Frequency stability
2.3 Load flow management
3 Pathways to solutions  
Page 12
3.1 Our approach
3.2 Grid consulting – from grid challenge  
to the solution
3.3 We’ll be there for you – around all  
your needs
4 Grid stabilizing technology  
Page 18
4.1 State-of-the-art approach
4.2 SVC PLUS® (STATCOM) 
 4.3 SVC PLUS FS® (E-STATCOM)
4.4 Synchronous Condenser
4.5 MVDC PLUS® 
4.6 UPFC PLUS®
4.7 Fixed Series Capacitor
5 Global references  
Page 36
5.1 SVC PLUS® – Kriftel, Germany
5.2 SVC PLUS® – Sortland, Norway
5.3 SVC PLUS FS® – Mehrum, Germany
5.4 SynCon – Robertstown, Australia
5.5 SynCon – Oberottmarshausen, Germany
5.6 SynCon – Moneypoint, Ireland
5.7 FSC – Castanhal, Brazil
5.8 FSC – Hirvisuo, Finland
5.9 FSC – Polpaico, Chile
1. Challenges in changing grids
The worldwide power sector has witnessed 
significant disruption, growth, and change in 
recent years. Three components driving these 
developments include decarbonization, electrifi-
cation, and the increasing liberalization of 
energy markets. On the generation side, inte-
grating renewable energy sources, mainly photo-
voltaic and wind power, alters the operation of 
conventional power systems. One factor is the 
intermittent nature of renewable energy 
sources. In addition, associated technologies 
have power electronics at the grid interface, 
decreasing overall inertia due to a lack of 
rotating masses directly connected to the grid. 
This issue is exacerbated by the increasing 
demand for electricity and the need for stronger 
interconnections between power systems.  
 
 These factors pose new challenges for grid 
stability along three domains: voltage stability, 
frequency stability, and load flow management.
Voltage stability  
The system voltage must be maintained within 
allowable voltage ranges to ensure stable power 
system operation and safeguard people, equip-
ment, and consumer devices. A sufficient supply 
of reactive power is needed to maintain voltage 
stability and leverage the transmission capacity 
of existing transformers and lines. Both in trans-
mission and distribution grids, voltage stability 
requirements increase in transmission and  
distribution grids, compared to a corresponding 
decrease in conventional power plants.  
Therefore, more grid services must be used.  
 
 Transforming HV-grids from conventional…
4
Frequency stability   
Frequency control ensures that power fed into 
the grid corresponds with power consumption, 
as any deviations in the total balance can result 
in a change in frequency. The transmission 
system operator must quickly return the  
required frequency to the rated value and can  
do so with the help of grid service products.  
 The rising fluctuation in generation capacity 
due to renewables has led to the increased 
demand for grid services.  
 
Load flow management   
Power system supply and demand must be  
kept in balance. Thermal overloads in power  
transmission lines and a growing number of  
instances in which frequency and voltage 
approach critically acceptable range limits –  or even exceed them – may require costly  
redispatch interventions to resolve current and 
voltage factors. System operators must optimize 
the utilization of transmission lines to get  
the most from existing grid capacity while  
maintaining maximum protection, reducing  
the risk of power failures, and minimizing  
redispatch costs.  
 
Increasing complexity   
To manage these interrelated factors, grid opera-
tors are looking for flexible, scalable solutions 
that fit within local requirements in terms of 
energy supply areas.
UPFC PLUS
Siemens Energy transmission solutionSTATCOMUnified Power
Flow Controller
STATCOM Frequency
StabilizerSynchronous
CondenserHVDCOffshore Grid
Connection
…to decarbonized and renewable power supply
 5
Trends in electric 
energy supply
• Shutdown of conventional fossil and  
nuclear power plants  
• Large-scale integration of renewables  
• Increasing power demand in existing grids  
• Continuous evolution of power market  
rules and regulationsSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
6
...cause grid 
stability risks
• Decreases grid strength and  
frequency stability  
• Increases inverter-connected generation  
• Decreases voltage stability  
• Increases unbalanced load flows, congestion,  
and redispatch  
V
 HzL4
L3
L1
L2ΣP
B A
 7
Voltage stability V Frequency stability fLoad flow management P
Dynamic voltage control
To ensure voltage stability at any 
time, reactive power output is  
controlled with a fast response time.Inertia contribution
When large rotating generators that 
previously provided inertia are  
replaced by non-synchronous  
generation, inertia must come  
from other sources.Dynamic load flow control
Volatile renewable generation may 
cause temporary overload of certain 
power lines and must be avoided.
Stationary voltage control
To react to slow grid changes, the full 
output range will be provided,  
initiated by the control system or 
manually by the operator.Grid forming 
Converters exhibiting voltage source 
behavior for grid stability provide 
instantaneous power (reserve),  
ensuring stable operation at  
low short circuit levels.Stationary load flow control
Adding power generation into the 
grid can overload power lines, while 
freeing capacity for others.
Active filtering / active damping
Modern semiconductors promote 
flexibility and utilization of the  
remaining capacity in the operating 
range to actively filter or damp  
existing background grid harmonics. Fast frequency response
If the frequency suddenly deviates 
from its nominal value, additional 
power is needed immediately.Grid coupling
If two non-synchronized grids are 
connected, an intermediate  
circuit is needed.
Short circuit contribution
In case of a fault in the grid, short 
circuit power is needed to avert a 
system-wide voltage collapse and 
enable the protection equipment  
to detect the fault.Power oscillation
If power oscillation is detected, the 
control system will automatically 
mitigate power swings.
Sub-synchronous resonance
To protect the large power generator 
shafts, torsional interaction should 
be avoided; if this occurs, additional 
measures must be taken.2. Complexity in grid stabilizing
The challenges within frequency stability, voltage stability, and load 
flow management are highly complex. System services available to 
support reliable grid operation are detailed in the following table.Siemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
8
V
V
t2.1 Voltage stability
When talking about voltage stability, 
many aspects play a role. All consumer 
and electrical devices work at a speci-
fied voltage. Malfunction or damage to these 
devices can occur due to under or overvoltage. 
Keeping the voltage stable means keeping the 
voltage in the allowed bandwidth for which the 
devices in the electrical system are designed. 
Voltage stability is also essential for dynamic 
events in networks such as faults, where the 
voltage may collapse for a short time and 
recover after fault clearing. If the recovery takes 
too long or does not fully recover, there may be 
system brownouts or blackouts. 
The topic of voltage stability is not new and has 
been prevalent since we have electrical systems. 
There were always measures to stabilize volt-
ages, and electrical systems were optimized to 
avoid outages and increase system availability. 
These measures were based on the system 
topologies we had in the past, where power generation was centralized and close to the big 
loads. Decarbonization goals lead to a shift in 
the way we generate power. There is a transition 
from known big centralized to smaller decentral-
ized power generation, which is challenging to 
manage. 
Changing how we generate power also changes 
the transmission systems and their physical 
topology. Decarbonization-based changes also 
impact voltage stability in the systems mainly 
because the system changes. We transmit power 
over longer distances, as renewable sources are 
not always close to large consumers. In addition, 
voltage stability is impacted by the volatility of 
renewable sources. Voltage stability in modern 
power system topologies is a considerable chal-
lenge – and dynamic reactive power compensa-
tion is the solution to tackle it and make decar -
bonization possible. VStable operation Event RestabilizationSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 9
Hz
tFrequency eventf2.2 Frequency stability
Like voltage stability, it is critical to 
keep the frequency of a power system 
stable. Over- or under-frequency leads 
to malfunctions and can also cause system 
shutdowns. Conventional power plant 
generators control the frequency in power 
systems, where the sum of the rotating mass of 
generators and turbines measures the strength 
of the system frequency. 
However, the frequency is not always constant 
due to minor mismatches between generation 
and consumption. These discrepancies happen 
continuously when loads are disconnected and 
generation needs to be reduced. The strength  
of the system frequency, called system inertia, 
measures the system’s sensitivity to these 
mismatches. Today, we see a change in power generation 
where more power is generated based on power 
electronic converters than conventional power 
plants with large rotating masses. The reduction 
of rotating masses –and therefore system 
frequency strength – leads to higher deviations 
from the nominal frequency in generation and 
consumption mismatches.
Frequency stabilizing solutions are necessary  
to maintain the frequency within acceptable 
limits, especially during high converter based 
generation.fStable operation Event RestabilizationSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
10
L3
L1
L2ΣP
P1 B AL4L4
L3
L1
L2ΣP
B AL4
L3
L1
L2ΣP
B A2.3 Load flow management
An electric power system consists of 
interconnected transmission and distri-
bution lines carrying energy from points 
of generation to consumption. It is crucial to 
perform load flow planning for all possible 
scenarios, as grid components can only with-
stand a certain amount of current. Transmission 
grid operation follows the N-1 criterion in which 
electrical components do not operate at 
maximum thermal capacity to withstand 
scenarios where one line is out of service, and 
other parts must assume power flow on top of 
their regular loading. Following this criterion 
ensures reliable and secure grid operation,  
especially for system faults.  As the load flow in power systems is becoming 
increasingly complex, we must account for even 
more scenarios. Volatile generation from renew -
able energy sources directly impacts line 
loading, but system underutilization remains a 
point of discussion. Due to the growth of renew -
ables and increased energy needs, optimal utili-
zation of all assets is imperative.PStable operation Event RestabilizationSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 11
As a leader in the power transmission industry, 
Siemens Energy has developed modern, flexible, 
high-capacity grid stabilizing solutions, including 
Flexible AC Transmission Systems (FACTS), to 
prevent high voltage fluctuations and power  
 failures, optimize network asset utilization, and 
mitigate load-induced disturbances. Our solu-
tions efficiently and reliably regulate voltage, 
impedance, and phase angle, providing inertia 
and short-circuit power.  
 3.1 Our approach3. Pathways to solutions
Power generation now utilizes more efficient and environmentally 
friendly technologies. Given the changes in power consumption sites, 
HV grids must use state-of-the-art technologies to provide essential 
stability and reliability.
Load flow  
management  PFrequency  
stability  
 fVoltage  
stability  V Frequency
stabilityVoltage
stability
Load ﬂow
managementSiemens Energy
Grid stability 
solutions
12
Tech-
nology
System
service SVC PLUS®SVC PLUS FS®SynCon MVDC PLUS®UPFC PLUS®FSC
Dynamic 
voltage control
Stationary 
voltage control
Active filtering /  
active damping
Inertia  
contribution
 /
*
Grid  
forming
  /
*
Fast frequency  
response
Short circuit  
contribution
Dynamic load  
flow control
Stationary load  
flow control
Grid  
coupling
SSR damping /    
POD 
Load flow  
management  PFrequency  
stability  
 fVoltage  
stability  VGrid stabilizing solutions
At Siemens Energy, we provide grid stabilization 
solutions to address even the most complex 
problems and network instability. We are also 
developing new solutions to manage current 
and future grid challenges while improving 
transmission system stability and performance.  
 
 
 With our grid stabilizing solutions, power 
companies can better utilize their existing  
transmission networks, substantially increase 
the availability and reliability of their line 
networks, and improve dynamic and transient 
network stability while ensuring a better quality 
of supply. The table below highlights some  
solutions offered by Siemens Energy.
*Grid forming control available for SVC PLUS® technologySiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 13
Strategic grid planning
Data- and simulation-driven decision support
Study  
portfolioModel development
Digital representation  
of transmission and  
generation assets  
 
 
 
 
 
 Solution design
Dimensions, selection,  
design, and verification  
of transmission and  
generation solutions  
 
 
 
 
 Grid integration
Grid interconnection of  
transmission and generation 
technologies  
 
 
 
 
 
 3.2 Grid consulting – from grid 
challenge to the solution
Moving from the identification of grid challenges 
to the optimal solution definition is not always 
trivial, as many questions arise:
• Which grid stabilizing devices are  
the best choice?
• How large should they be, and how  
many are needed?
• Which locations in the grid should  
they be installed??
• When are they required, and how do they fit 
into the long-term grid development plan?
 Applying simulation-based studies and using 
their grid expertise and extensive product  
knowledge, our highly experienced team of grid 
consultants can answer these questions and 
guide you toward a tailor-made solution.
These services range from initial optioneering 
and component selection to full-scale long-term 
grid development masterplans, as shown in the 
portfolio overview below.
Siemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
14
What our customers say
„The ongoing energy transition leads to substantial new chal-
lenges for the safe operation of our transmission grid. This 
need is covered by the increased use of grid stabilizing solu-
tions, such as synchronous condensers with additional 
flywheels, and STATCOMs with multiuse capabilities. For the 
future we see a further need for new solutions providing 
instantaneous reserve and for grid forming control concepts. 
With its technical expertise and innovative capabilities, 
Siemens Energy is an important partner for our journey 
towards a green future.”
Dr. Daniel Eichhoff, Grid Projects, Senior Manager Substations, Amprion
Amprion’s STATCOM substation in Kriftel to support the power supply for the 
greater Frankfurt area in Germany with its almost six million inhabitants.
 15
3.3 We’ll be there for you –  
around all your needs
From the early phases throughout the lifecycle, Siemens Energy is your 
reliable partner and ensures no gaps in the full cycle. Our in-house  
capability minimizes risk across all phases of the project.
Consulting and 
feasibility studies
Financing
Project 
management
System 
design and
engineering
Civil design 
and works
ProcurementFactory testingTransportInstallation 
supervision 
and worksCommissioning 
& performance 
testAfter-sales services, 
condition spare   
  parts & based 
      maintenanceSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
16
Siemens Energy offers a single source for all 
necessary grid stabilizing solutions and a 
comprehensive range of complementary 
services, including system design, modeling, 
network analyses, civil works, project manage-
ment, functional performance tests, delivery, 
and installation. In addition, we assist with 
commissioning, onsite tests, and training of 
operating personnel. 
Siemens Energy analyzes and calculates the 
power system requirements, develops  
customized solutions for complete system configurations and plants, and quickly imple-
ments them. Siemens Energy can deliver turnkey 
solutions and create new solutions, enabling 
timely grid stability improvements in rapidly 
changing energy systems. We provide innova-
tive, proven grid stabilization solutions, 
including in-house components. Siemens Energy 
offers services for nearly all customer require-
ments, including design studies, financing 
support, project management, assembly, 
commissioning, and after-sales service.  
We are your trusted partner for all project stages.
 17
4. Grid stabilizing technology
Siemens Energy is the world leader in state-of-the-art grid stabilizing 
solutions and pioneered modular multilevel converter technology.  
Our grid stabilization portfolio features decades of success in solving 
the most complex customer challenges. Siemens Energy succeeds 
through our combined engineering expertise and innovative  
capabilities. Most importantly, common hardware and software  
platforms enable us to stay ahead of the technological edge.
Our grid stabilization hardware solutions based 
on power electronics use the uniform, highly 
modularized PLUS platform, delivering 
unmatched reliability and durability.
The modular multilevel converter (MMC),  
introduced by Siemens Energy over a decade 
ago, is the reference standard for high voltage, 
high power voltage source converter (VSC)  
applications.
In Siemens Energy PLUS systems, one MMC has 
identical converter arms, each containing several 
series of connected sub-modules to form the 
required AC voltage. Each contributes a small 
voltage step and is individually controlled. A 
discrete voltage source with a local capacitor 
defines its voltage step without creating ripple 
voltage distortion across the MMC’s other 
phases. This way, it can achieve the required 
sinusoidal AC output voltage waveforms without 
excessive harmonic distortion and HF noise.
4.1 State-of-the-art approach
A wide portfolio based on the same principles - PLUS Platform 
Power moduleSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
18
Control System
PLUS
=
=The insulated-gate bipolar transistors (IGBTs) at 
the core of the sub-modules are fully control-
lable. The output currents can be varied over 
the entire operating range smoothly and 
linearly. This feature enables independent and 
flexible control of active and reactive power to 
support the connected AC grid.
By changing the number of sub-modules and 
their electrical interconnections, Siemens 
Energy’s grid stabilization solutions deliver a 
variety of converter configurations. Standardized 
electrical and mechanical designs for different 
converter sizes ensure maximum safety and an 
optimal footprint of the overall plant.
Siemens Energy has over a decade of expertise 
in grid integration of MMC technology. From day 
one, we developed and refined our solutions 
and will continue to do so.
 
 Our goal is to offer solutions based on the same 
field-proven hardware while providing reliable 
grid stabilization.
Siemens Energy recognizes that new challenges 
in the high-voltage grid will have to be met by 
system operators in the future and is constantly 
developing new solutions. All of our new power 
electronics-based solutions will incorporate the 
PLUS platform.
Overview of some Siemens Energy’s grid stabilization solutions based on power electronicsMMC branchSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 19
Control and protection (C&P) systems are critical 
to managing power flows and protecting grid 
components in FACTS plants. Both are para-
mount in light of increasingly complex grid 
architectures and fluctuating power infeed from 
renewable energy sources. As a result, system 
operators must contend with three main chal-
lenges. The first involves a quick reaction to 
market needs and the short lead time of the C&P 
system. The second pertains to reliable and 
secure operations throughout the entire lifecycle 
while safeguarding the low total cost of owner -
ship. Lastly, the C&P system should allow for the 
easy expansion of new solutions and services. 
Addressing these challenges is crucial to 
managing the ongoing energy system transfor -
mation and leveraging future innovations.Modularity meets reliability
With our new modular C&P platform, Siemens 
Energy is tackling these challenges head-on. Our 
platform approach provides a common, proven, 
reliable basis for applications, processes, prod-
ucts, and technologies. Our pre-integrated and 
ready-to-use reference projects – called refer -
ence project lines – allow us to configure 
customer-specific solutions following your 
performance requirements. Based on these 
configured reference projects, customer-specific 
delta engineering leads to significantly reduced 
engineering and lead times.The new control and protection platform 
Siemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
20
The platform philosophy is incorporated in all areas of the system:
• Software applications for control and protection, field, and operations levels  
• Hardware for control and protection, communications, field, and operations levels
• An open and digitalized engineering ecosystem
SoftwareDigital twin for offline
testing
Model driven system
engineeringHardware independent
software development
Reusable building blocks
(start engineering from
standardized templates)Software applications 
Our state-of-the-art methods and tools increase 
software development speed, efficiency, and 
accuracy. One such method is model-driven 
system engineering with MATLAB® and 
Simulink®,1 which creates a single point of code 
transformation, including software develop-
ment, simulation, and offline testing.  
Functionalities can be seamlessly integrated and 
simulated, facilitating the identification and 
correction of design errors from an early stage.
The same advantage applies to the digital twin  
– tests can be performed automatically and offline 
without impacting the physical process.  The digital twin escorts the system from the begin-
ning, enhancing documentation and traceability.
Throughout the development process, we 
generate building blocks and functions for 
reuse in other projects. Engineering starts from 
standardized templates using reference project 
lines, significantly reducing the risk of errors and 
allowing for project implementation in parallel. 
We can also leverage the advantage of hard-
ware-independent software development  
– even with hardware changes, software appli-
cations remain usable.
1 MATLAB® und Simulink® are registered trademarks of Mathworks, Inc.Siemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 21
The third component of our state-of-the-art 
approach is common processes with a high 
degree of engineering digitalization and project 
execution.
Digitalization has a profound impact on the way 
we can deliver projects. Siemens Energy offers 
the complete package, including project 
management and engineering. Using the latest digital management and engineering methods, 
we provide endless flexibility in collaboration 
and communication, ensuring a seamless and 
successful experience for our customers and 
partners.
Digital engineering and execution mean working 
with all stakeholders on a common data plat-
form for agile project collaboration and efficient Digital engineering and execution platformEngineering environment 
Digitalization offers unparalleled opportunities 
for collaboration, co-creation, and stakeholder 
involvement. With the new C&P platform, we are 
leveraging this potential to accelerate engi-
neering and execution – for the benefit of all. 
The plant data digital twin is a common data 
backbone for agile collaboration throughout the 
lifecycle. With the cloud-based engineering 
portal, all stakeholders in the engineering 
process gain full transparency and access to 
current and accurate data, enabling them to 
work in parallel. The underlying common cloud 
infrastructure enabled by a DevOps mindset and 
principles helps manage the build and release 
process and promotes fast deployment – a crucial 
aspect to react to and seize the potential of the 
energy transformation. 
However, it is only not about engineering speed 
– equally important is operative reliability. With 
SensOTS, a cloud-based operator training 
simulator, staff can be trained in advance to 
operate the C&P system, “read” data if using the 
option for analytics, and manage condition- 
based maintenance.Control-level hardware 
The hardware concept at the control level 
focuses on quick reaction, robustness, and 
secure functionality and data exchange. In 
addition, scalable rail-mounted PC technology  
makes it easy to extend the system at any time 
in computing and processing power.
A wide range of internal standard protocols, 
from IEC61850 to EtherCAT, allows for fast and 
seamless communications. Short bus cycle 
times of up to 250µs enable closed-loop control 
tasks and deliver the performance to support 
new features.
With the ever-faster digital revolution, we’ve 
invested extensive expertise and diligence into 
cyber security. The primary hardware will run 
on an industrially proven open-source Unix 
operating system, creating a small footprint 
since every running service and configuration 
can be justified and explained. There are no 
dependencies on other operating systems. 
Thanks to open-source distribution, the 
functionality of the operating system and its 
applications can be verified, which is essential  
to comply with future security legislation 
initiatives. Continuous updates and life-long 
patch management complete the package. Siemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
22
0100100100101001001001
01001001001010100100100100101001001001
010010100100100101001001001
01001001001
“As a partner of SE, I expect to 
exchange data in a seamless and 
integrated way to improve my  
effectivity and level of collaboration.”“As a regulator, I expect SE to use their 
expertise to create data-driven insights 
to help us shape our way toward future 
sustainable, carbon-free energy.”“As a government, I rely on SE to 
help utility players achieve our 
ambitious climate goals offering 
engineering and D&A solutions.”
“As a customer, I want SE to 
help me run my business more 
efficiently.”“As a citizen,  
I expect SE to focus 
their engineering  
expertise on  
decarbonized future 
energy sources.”operation, enabling the reduction of execution 
time and steps, data exchange and access in the 
cloud, and improved efficiency. Digital engi-
neering and execution also facilitate collabora-
tion between different project stakeholders, 
reduce project lead time and risk, and increase 
data safety.
Examples of digital engineering and execution 
platform use include building information 
modeling (BIM) applications for planning,  design, and construction (e.g., 4D time sched-
uling, 3D modeling, design, collaboration) and 
modeling tools for simulation (e.g., plant noise 
simulations).
The following figure presents an overview of the 
complex global digital cooperation for state-of-
the-art digital operations. The use of digital tools 
for engineering accelerates project delivery and 
establishes maximum transparency for all stake-
holders involved in the project.
“As an SE employee,  
I want to drive value in 
my daily tasks, turning 
data into insights.”Siemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 23
4.2 SVC PLUS® (STATCOM)
Static synchronous compensator (STATCOM) technology is a dynamic 
solution for voltage control in the power grid by injecting and  
absorbing reactive power. Siemens Energy created the latest techno-
logical development – modular multilevel STATCOM, or SVC PLUS® –  
to offer optimal performance to our customers.
Based on high-performance IGBT transistors
SVC PLUS® is the leading technology in reactive 
power compensation and is based on VSC  
technology, using high-performance transistors 
(IGBTs) as the primary semiconductor device. 
This modular multilevel system has several 
advantages compared to previous STATCOM 
configurations:
• IGBT switching frequency is significantly 
decreased, resulting in low electrical losses 
and less stress on components, increasing 
equipment lifetimes.  
• The waveform produced as output is almost 
ideally sinusoidal, nearly eliminating the need 
for filtering due to the negligible amount of 
harmonics generated by SVC PLUS®.
• The number of outdoor components is 
dramatically reduced for a compact footprint 
and efficient use of space.Systematically improved under-voltage  
performance
The electrical characteristics of SVC PLUS® differ 
from a classic SVC. SVC PLUS® output power is 
proportional to the system voltage, while a 
classic SVC’s output is proportional to the 
voltage squared. SVC PLUS® current control 
delivers superior under-voltage performance, 
supporting the network longer and at lower 
voltages.
In addition, the built-in IGBTs can operate during 
a temporary overload – an absolute advantage 
during severe network contingencies. SVC PLUS® 
delivers more output power and stability, yet 
also comes in a smaller form factor than a classic 
SVC while still achieving the same output.
 
 
24
The SVC PLUS® can be used for:
• Fast voltage control under various load condi-
tions during steady-state and dynamic events
• Reactive power control
• Unbalance control
• Power factor regulation
• Power oscillation damping
• Improved flicker reduction in  
industrial applications
 
Siemens Energy introduced SVC PLUS® over  
10 years ago, and the technology has since 
garnered tremendous attention and appreciation 
across the industry.With more than 80 high power range installa-
tions on all continents and many years of  
collective experience, SVC PLUS® is a proven  
and trusted technology.
SVC PLUS OverviewUHP SVC PLUS up to ±400Mvar
Open rack & 1-phase container
SVC PLUS up to 150Mvar
3-phase
Container400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
50     100         150       200       250      300        350       400
Inductive [Mvar]
2
3
4
5
6
7SVC PLUS converter
Control room
Cooling
Phase reactor yard
MV switchyard
Power HV/MV transformer
Connection to the HV switchyard4
61
1
235
7Optimal stability and quality In harmony with harmonics – 
and best flicker reductionFastest response – efficient 
solution
BenefitsSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 25
4.3 SVC PLUS FS® (E-STATCOM)
Extended STATCOM (E-STATCOM) solution with voltage and  
frequency control in one unit.
The challenge
While grids are undergoing fundamental 
changes in power generation, renewable infeed, 
and ever-increasing demand, power quality and 
dynamic grid stability are at risk due to less 
synchronous power generation. 
As the power infeed from inverter-based 
resources continues to replace conventional 
synchronous power generation, the grid 
frequency is becoming more sensitive due to  
the reduced amount of rotating machines.  
Grid operators face the challenge of providing 
sufficient system inertia with rotating  
equipment to stabilize the grid. Because  
inverter-based resources have minimal  
inertia and cannot be used for frequency  
stabilization, new solutions are needed.SVC PLUS FS® (Frequency Stabilizer):  
An E-STATCOM solution providing active  
and reactive power
Using a bulk number of supercapacitors, the new 
SVC PLUS frequency stabilizer® (FS) is a cost-  
efficient, compact solution supporting voltage 
and frequency grid stability.
• Grid forming converter: Voltage source behavior 
provides phase-correct instantaneous response 
to voltage magnitude or phase angle changes
• Energy reserves: A bulk number of super-  
capacitors provide grid-scale active power 
output, up from milliseconds to several 
seconds
Technical data Configuration scalable
Active power up to +/- 300 MW
Reactive power up to +/- 300 Mvar
Available energyActive power out-/input for 1... 5 s  
depending on super-capacitor unit
26
The SVC PLUS FS® provides the  
following features:
• Steady-state and dynamic voltage control 
through reactive current provision
• Frequency control using active current  
provision at frequency deviation• Virtual synchronous machine with natural 
inertial response through active power  
injection due to a phase-angle step of 
frequency gradient 
• Stabilization of weak grids through voltage 
source behaviorBlackout prevention
Dynamic voltage and 
frequency support 
combined in one  
unit for optimal  
power quality.Grid forming
Inherent response 
time with high 
active power  
output over  
several seconds.Cost-effective solution
Low lifetime expendi-
tures through compact, 
space-saving installation 
with high power density, 
low losses, and easy 
maintenance.High flexibility
The highly adaptable 
solution is suitable for 
various applications 
through the flexible 
adjustment of control 
parameters.
123
4568
71
2
3
4
5
6
87Supercapacitors
SVC PLUS converter
Control room
Cooling
Phase reactor yard
MV switchyard
Power HV/MV transformer
Connection to the HV  
switchyardBenefitsSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 27
4.4 Synchronous Condenser
With an increasing share of renewable power generation and the  
shutdown of large conventional and nuclear power plants for environ-
mental, economic, social, and political reasons, most power grids are 
experiencing a decreasing level of inertia and short-circuit power. 
Inertia and short circuit power are integral 
factors for a capable system. Inertia reduces 
oscillation on grid frequency and prevents 
system blackouts, while short circuit power 
ensures reliable system protection.
Our synchronous condenser solution uses a 
generator to supply the necessary inertia with its 
rotating mass while also providing or absorbing 
reactive power. The generator is connected to 
the transmission network by a transformer and is 
started by a static frequency converter. Once the 
operating speed is achieved, the generator is 
synchronized with the network, behaving like a 
synchronous motor with no load and providing 
reactive power, short-circuit power, and inertia 
to the transmission network. In addition to that, grid operators face the 
following challenges: 
• Mostly non- synchronous, connected via 
power electronic converters 
• Displace existing generation
• Located in remote parts of the grid
• Growing HVDC connections
• Growth of renewable generation
28
Technical data
Reactive power rangeUp to + 500/ -260 Mvar 
(@Generator terminal)
Terminal voltage Up to 20 kV
Short circuit power range Up to 2000 MVA
Inertia (kinetic energy) Up to 4000 MWs
Maximum inertia with additional masses 
provided by flywheel solution
To provide maximum inertia, Siemens Energy has 
extended the synchronous condenser solution 
with additional rotating mass from a flywheel. 
This extension is a highly effective method to 
maintain the required level of inertia and rate of 
change of frequency (RoCoF) of the system.
Rotating mass provides an inherent synchronous 
inertial response, counteracting grid frequency 
fluctuations with active power injection or 
absorption during sudden load unbalance events.
 Siemens Energy’s flywheels operate in a partial 
vacuum to minimize air friction losses and 
reduce the cooling efforts to maintain required  
temperature levels in all operational and  
emergency modes. This design enables a safe 
emergency rundown in case of total power loss 
(grid blackout).
The flywheel is designed for plug-and-play 
installation delivered to the site with the rotor 
installed, allowing for a minimal footprint and 
low supervision and maintenance effort.Contribution of  
short-circuit powerVoltage support Short-term overload 
capabilityInertia to the  
transmission 
system
Benefits
1
2
3
54
6Generator hall
Synchronous generator
Generator circuit breaker
FlywheelAuxiliary transformer
Power Transformer12
3 5
64Siemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 29
4.5 MVDC PLUS® 
Regional HV and MV sub-transmission networks and MV distribution 
grids are pivotal in controlling the omnidirectional power flows  
characterizing current and future energy ecosystems. MVDC PLUS® 
manages the grid of the future.
Reinforce MV transmission all the way
Transmission distances expand in increasingly 
liberalized markets. Growing infeed from  
distributed power generation units causes power 
quality and grid stability issues. Grid infra-  
structure expansion, upgrades, and reconnec-
tions are needed to meet the volatile demand  
for flexible electricity supply. Moreover, DSOs 
require a higher degree of transmission 
autonomy to fulfill today’s wide-ranging tasks. 
Siemens Energy’s MVDC PLUS® is an efficient, 
robust, reliable, and compact solution that 
addresses these challenges by increasing trans-
mission capabilities, strengthening the grid infra-
structure, minimizing losses, and providing reac-
tive power compensation and load flow control.Proven high-quality technology 
MVDC PLUS® is based on Siemens Energy’s 
renowned HVDC PLUS® technology. The symmet-
rical monopole layout represents the HVDC-to-
pology slimmed down to its essential function-
ality. At the core are rugged and powerful 
multilevel VSCs that produce an almost ideal 
sinusoidal waveform to deliver consistent power 
quality. The converter stations allow for bidirec-
tional power flow and can operate as STATCOMs.
Type DNDC24 DNDC30 DNDC48
kVdc +/- 24 +/- 30 +/- 50
kAdc 1.5 1.5 1.5
MW 70 90 149
Mvar +/- 32 +/- 40 +/- 66
Km 50 … 200 70 … 300 100 … 400
30
Wide-ranging transmission capabilities 
MVDC PLUS® combines the best of AC and DC 
transmission: 
• Simple design, robustness, reliability, and low 
costs of AC technology for seamless integra-
tion in existing transmission networks
• Long-distance transmission capabilities, high 
transmission capacity, active power flow 
control, reactive power compensation, and 
STATCOM properties of HVDC PLUS® technologyAddress all challenges in MV transmission 
simultaneously
The increasingly complex energy landscape 
poses several new challenges to regional trans-
mission and distribution grids. MVDC PLUS® is 
the innovative, universal solution that handles 
all issues smoothly.
Managing the future grid: How to improve power transfer in the future grid?Blackout prevention
•  Supply remote locations
•  Stabilize weak grids 
through coupling
•  Flexible, programmable 
solutionCost effective
•  Lower costs at 
long distances
•  No reactive power 
comp. needed
•  Lower costs than 
fuel / power plantsGrid utilization
•  Increase power 
infeed
•  Power exchange 
at MV- / 
•  Sub-transmis-
sion levelLower environment impact
•  No fuel & CO2 emission
•  Space saving
Power transfer changes
Which challenges do we face?
Reduce footprint
What’s the best way to make 
network upgrades with little 
visual impact?
Underlying technology
How does it work?Bridge the distance
How should we connect 
Islands, platforms, and 
remote areas?
Obtain transmission autonomy in power ranges up to 150 MW
How will we fulfil the enhanced tasks as a DSO?Increase power infeed
How can we enhance 
existing infrastructure?Connecting weak or unstable grids
How will we integrate and stabilize grids?BenefitsSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 31
4.6 UPFC PLUS®
Enhances AC-grid through dynamic load flow control and lets you 
get the most from your existing grid capacity while maintaining 
maximum protection, reducing the risk of power failure, and 
minimizing redispatch costs.
Fast, efficient, future-proof AC grid  
stabilization 
As a global leader in power transmission tech-
nology and a long-standing, trusted partner of 
public utilities and grid operators, Siemens 
Energy has always been at the forefront of tech-
nical development. We have a long history of 
trendsetting in international power transmission 
projects that consistently demonstrate the reli-
ability and quality of our products, solutions, 
and services. Energy ecosystems are in a state of 
profound change, yet reliable electricity is a 
fundamental societal requirement. Underdevel-
oped or weak grids, mature and aging infra-  
structure, and liberalized markets with a growing share of alternative energy sources lead to  
associated business model disruption.  
 
Modern challenges for a legacy power grid
Increasingly decentralized energy systems and 
associated uncontrolled power flows pose new 
challenges for existing grid infrastructure. 
Thermal overloads in the lines and a growing 
number of cases where frequency and voltage 
come critically close to acceptable range limits 
– or even exceed them – threaten grid stability 
and the transmission infrastructure, often 
requiring costly redispatch intervention to 
address current and voltage factors.  
 
Phase reactor yardCooling
Converter hall AC grid connectionShunt 
transformer
Series 
transformer
32
UPFC PLUS® – the missing piece
To manage the transmission system and provide 
stability and resilience, operators must better 
utilize existing assets. They can achieve this  
by employing a dynamic load flow management 
solution such as UPFC PLUS®, which has  
significantly faster reaction times and can 
manage both series and parallel compensation 
to keep lines within the N-1 criterion and the 
electricity flowing.
The unified power flow controller (UPFC) can 
balance load flow in the AC grid, rapidly bypass 
overloaded line sections, provide reactive power 
and dynamic voltage control, and utilize assets  
to physical limits without the need for safety 
margins.
 
 The UPFC consists of two voltage sources: one in 
parallel to control the voltage and the other in a 
series connected to the AC line. This combina-
tion provides reactive power compensation, 
voltage control, and active power load flow 
control in one unit.
Compared to traditional power flow controllers, 
UPFC PLUS® controls power flow in milliseconds, 
stabilizing the AC grid even when critical situa-
tions suddenly develop (grid code N-1). UPFC 
PLUS® helps you get the most from your existing 
grid capacity while maintaining maximum 
protection, reducing power failure risk, and 
minimizing redispatch costs.Dynamic  
With response 
time of mili-
seconds.Functional  
Load flow 
control and  
reactive power 
compensation 
in one  
solution.Flexible
All system 
voltages can 
be addressed 
up to 500 kVPowerful
Better  
utilization  
of existing  
infrastructure.Reasonable 
investment
Lower  
investment 
compared  
to other  
solutions
Benefits
UPFC
Grid code N- 1Siemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 33
4.7 Fixed Series Capacitor 
The ongoing energy system transformation requires effective means  
to address challenges in reliable power transmission. Instead of  
building new lines, our FACTS technology can increase transmission 
capacity. Series compensation technology provides higher transmission  
capacities for existing long-distance AC transmission lines and  
increased grid stability – without the costs and time requirements  
of building new lines.
How to increase transmission system  
capacity and stability
The increasing energy demand can only be  
met when grids provide sufficient transmission 
capacity. Building new lines is not only expen-
sive, but also complex due to changing regula-
tions, public acceptance, and environmental 
concerns. Fixed series capacitor (FSC)  
technology provides an alternative solution  
by increasing the transmission capacity of  
existing lines.Proven fixed series capacitor technology for 
cost-effective capacity expansion
Power transfer with long overhead transmission 
lines is limited by the impedance that can lead to 
voltage drops. For decades, fixed series compen-
sation has been the proven solution to maintain 
a minimum voltage profile and maximum utiliza-
tion of transmission lines. This technology works 
by connecting a capacitor bank in series with the 
transmission line to partially compensate for 
inductive impedance while increasing the 
34
voltage at the point of connection. The capaci-
tors are protected by metal oxide varistors 
(MOVs) and – in case of a severe fault – by a 
breaker which bypasses the FSC. For instant 
protection, a triggered spark gap bypasses  
 
 capacitors and MOVs within less than 1 ms. 
Gapless solutions are also possible, provided that 
local requirements match. Due to this 
complexity, Siemens Energy offers individually 
designed solutions with FSCs.Increased maximum 
capacity Increased grid stability  Economical solution
Siemens Energy’s advanced power delivery 
solution translates into many benefits: 
• Increases power transfer capability
• Reduces line voltage drops
• Limits load-dependent voltage drops
• Influences load flow in parallel  
transmission lines• Reduces transmission angle, increasing 
stability
• Reduces transmission systems footprint
• Cost-effective
• Reliable and robust design even in  
seismic areas1
2 3
4 51
2
3
4
5Transmission line
Capacitor bank
Metal oxide varistor
Spark gap
Damping circuitBenefitsSiemens Energy | Grid Stabilization
 35
5. Global  
References
36
 37
Reliable energy transmission by stabilizing 
the grid node in Rhine-Main
Commissioned by grid operator Amprion, the 
transmission systems by Siemens Energy support 
the power supply for the industrial city of Frank -
furt in the Rhine-Main area. The reactive power 
compensation systems have been successfully 
running since 2018 for nearly 6 million inhabi-
tants. Additionally, this power grid node supplies 
wind power from northern Germany to the 
industrial south.
Due to the energy transition in Germany, renew -
able and distributed energy sources increase 
power fluctuations. Amprion is responding by 
installing an SVC PLUS® system to stabilize grid  
 voltage during long-distance large-scale power 
transmission. Combined with a mechanically 
switched capacitor with damping network 
(MSCDN), these systems will help prevent gaps 
in supply due to large power plant shutdowns.
The SVC PLUS® system does not generate power 
but instead modulates and manages electricity 
that flows from sources hundreds of miles away. 
It can dynamically, rapidly, and flexibly increase 
or decrease grid voltage demand and effectively 
transmit electricity. At the core of SVC PLUS® is 
multilevel converter technology. Compared to 
other self-commutated converter topologies, the 
required space is reduced, and the system is 
ideal for flicker compensation, integration of 
wind power plants, and railway electrification.
Technical data
Customer Amprion GmbH
Project name Kriftel
Location Germany
Scope 1x SVC PLUS®, 400 kV, ±300 Mvar
Special featuresVoltage support
Power transformer with DC compensation system
In service date 2019
5.1 SVC PLUS® – Kriftel, Germany
38
Dealing with the harsh environment to  
stabilize transmission in Norway
To improve the Norwegian power system and 
provide a reliable power supply, Statnett 
installed the SVC PLUS® by Siemens Energy.
The remoteness of the Lofoten Islands caused 
voltage instabilities on the existing HV line. 
Therefore, a fast compensation device was 
required close to the town of Sortland. Siemens 
Energy was awarded the SVC PLUS® contract 
since this solution featured several benefits for  
this case. Reducing local construction and  
 installation activities to a minimum and finishing 
the work before the early start of winter were 
the driving forces behind prefabricating as many 
system parts as possible. Also, the solution 
needed to deal with the harsh environment.
Accordingly, all electrical equipment was placed 
inside the SVC PLUS® containers, including the 
coupling reactors interconnected by cables. No 
active air-insulated parts were installed in the 
yard, which provided optimal protection, 
including vermin attacks. This solution also  
eliminated the need for an expensive and 
resource-consuming building.
Technical data
Customer Statnett
Project name Sortland
Location Norway
Scope 1x SVC PLUS®, 132 kV, ±50 Mvar
Special featuresIncrease of power line transfer capabiliy 
Voltage support 
Containerized phase reactors
In service date 2015
5.2 SVC PLUS® – Sortland, Norway
 39
At the pulse of the energy transition:  
Grid stabilization in Germany
The German-Dutch transmission system 
operator TenneT has awarded Siemens Energy 
to install the world’s first E-STATCOM with power 
supply system via supercapacitors. If more and 
more conventional power plants are taken off 
the grid and replaced by electricity from rene-
wable energy sources, such plants are necessary.
By far the most onshore wind energy is 
produced in this location (Lower Saxony). Grid 
expansion is an important prerequisite for a 
reliable power supply. The project is scheduled 
to go into operation in 2025. The required 
energy is stored in supercapacitors in very compact space, in a way that fluctuations of the 
grid frequency can be stabilized by charging or 
discharging of the stored 200 MW capacity.
Tim Holt, Member of the Managing Board at 
Siemens Energy: “The great strength of the 
European power grid is its resilience - it 
guarantees security of supply and thus also 
prosperity. To ensure that this remains the case 
in the future, investments in grid stability are 
extremely important. There is no time to lose, 
because energy transition does not just mean 
simply replacing fossil fuels with renewable 
energies. In the end, the electricity must also 
reach the consumers’ sockets reliably. This is our 
drive for this project.”
Technical data
Customer Tennet TSO GmbH
Project name Mehrum Nord
Location Germany
Scope 1x SVC PLUS Frequency Stabilizier® 400 kV -300/300 Mvar
Special featuresFirst pilot worldwide, frequency stabilization and 
voltage support, active power by supercapacitors, 
emulates inertia very fast, active power input/ output, 
high power density, reactive power compensation
In service date Est. 2025MunichBerlin
Poland
AustriaFrance
5.3 SVC PLUS FS® – Mehrum, Germany
40
5.4 SynCon – Robertstown, Australia
The right momentum for grid stability  
South Australian grid operator ElectraNet must 
deal with over 50% renewable energy in its grid – 
a formidable challenge for grid stability. The lack 
of inertia by heavy power turbines can instanta-
neously bridge sudden frequency  
drops. To avert the risk of blackouts, ElectraNet 
equipped its Robertstown substation with two 
generators with high-tech flywheels.
Synchronous condensers have long stabilized  
AC grids. Although they do not generate active 
current, they help balance reactive current, 
representing a characteristic of AC grids.  
Due to their large rotating masses, synchronous  
 condensers contribute a reasonable amount of 
inertia, but many grids need more. The flywheels 
also multiply the inertia and restore lost inertia 
in the Australian grid.
Although flywheels mean that synchronous 
condensers need to draw more current from the 
grid to remain in rotation, Siemens Energy devel-
opers have ensured that power losses for oper -
ating flywheels are as low as possible. The 
flywheels used in Robertstown rotate in a  
negative pressure close to a perfect vacuum. 
This innovation reduces frictional heat and 
energy losses – both would occur even if a 
surface as smooth as a mirror were turning  
in the air – by 90%.
Technical data
Customer ElectraNet Ltd.
Project name Robertstown Substation
Location Australia, South Australia
Scope 2x Turnkey SynCon incl. Flywheel at 275 kV
Special featuresShort circuit power and inertia for system strength
Flywheel connected to generator
Condition based monitoring
In service date 2021
 41
Stabilizing the power grid with reliable 
rotating phase shifters at Amprion
A central energy hub, the Oberottmarshausen 
substation distributes electricity to the south  
of Augsburg. The Dortmund transmission 
system operator, Amprion, commissioned a 
synchronous condenser by Siemens Energy for 
regional voltage maintenance in the power 
grid. As former large power generators are 
increasingly taken off the grid, Amprion is 
building reactive power compensation facilities 
such as the Rotating Phase Shifter in 
Oberottmarshausen as primary nodes in the 
power grid.Siemens Energy (formerly Siemens AG) was 
awarded the construction contract for the rotating 
phase shifter and ancillary equipment at this 
substation. The shift in the power grid toward 
decentralized generators predominantly focuses 
on wind and solar plants. These changes present 
increasing challenges for long-term grid stability.
The rotating phase shifter can flexibly raise or 
lower grid voltage, allowing for precise regulation 
of future voltage in the transmission grid and the 
subordinate distribution grids. The valuable contri-
bution of large thermal power plants to ongoing 
grid stabilization will increasingly switch to new 
technologies such as the rotating phase shifter 
from Siemens Energy.5.5 SynCon – Oberottmarshausen, 
Germany
Technical data
Customer Amprion GmbH
Project name Oberottmarshausen
Location Germany
Scope 1x SynCon, -200/+300 Mvar@400 kV
Special featuresProvides short circuit power
Condition based monitoring
Implementation of SGen5-2000P generator 
In service date 2018
42
The biggest flywheel in the world for a stable 
grid in the era of renewables
The progressive climate targets and the phase 
out coal put Ireland in a similar situation like 
other countries. The integration of additional 
renewable energy needs to be enabled. ESB, the 
leading Irish utility and owner of the Moneypoint 
powerplant, is currently working on trans-
forming the site into a green energy hub.
The newly installed Synchronous Condenser 
including the flywheel is designed to use the 
existing grid connection. If conventional power 
generation is needed, block 2 of the powerplant 
will be connected. If additional renewables are available, the synchronous condenser plant will 
be connected to stabilize the grid instead. Grid 
Stabilization is needed because the Irish Trans-
mission System Operator Eirgrid is planning to 
use large wind farms to generate energy.
Since the turbines aren’t connected directly to 
the grid, additional rotating mass is needed to 
keep the frequency stable. The installed flywheel 
at Moneypoint is the world’s largest flywheel 
and the solution has a profound increased 
inertia capability. This allows more renewables 
to be fed into the Irish grid, because it supplies 
the same amount of rotation mass, inertia and 
short-circuit power as a coal turbine.
Technical data
Customer ESB generation and trading
Project name Moneypoint
Location Ireland
Scope 1x SynCon with flywheel -111/245 Mvar@400 kV, 4000 MWs
Special features Biggest flywheel in the world 
In service date 20235.6 SynCon - Moneypoint, IrelandDublin
 43
Optimizing the transmission line in the 
Brazilian grid  
With a dynamic increase in power generation in 
the north of Brazil and the need for increased 
transmission capacity, Siemens Energy was 
awarded the FSC contract in Castanhal.
The installation of this equipment on the trans-
mission line presented several benefits to the 
system, customer TPE, and the citizens. 
Installing the FSC reduced the used space in the 
substation. Additionally, the project lead time 
was optimized compared to duplicating the existing transmission line. Lastly, the environ-
mental impact was decreased.
The FSC banks consist of capacitors and their 
protection devices are installed on the same 
potential of the transmission line voltage. There-
fore, they must be isolated from the ground. For 
this, the equipment is mounted on a metal plat-
form containing iron, steel, and aluminum struc-
tures, supported by insulators dimensioned for 
the voltage level of the transmission line. 
Another protection device for the FSC bank is the 
bypass circuit breaker – the only high-voltage 
equipment not installed on the platform.
Technical data
Customer TPE
Project name Castanhal
Location Brazil
Scope 1x FSC, 230 kV, 151 Mvar
Special features 70% compensation degree
In service date 20125.7 FSC – Castanhal, Brazil
44
Flexibility in the grid by using fixed series 
compensation
A significant amount of Finland’s power is 
generated in the north by hydropower plants 
and wind power. The Finish grid is connected to 
Sweden and Norway by AC interconnectors in 
the north. The main challenge of Finland’s grid 
operator, Fingrid, is to transport a large amount 
of energy from the north to the south, where 
most of the power is consumed.To tackle this challenge, Fingrid upgraded their 
Rannikkolinja line (coastal line) from Turku to 
Oulu from 220 kV to 400 kV. Since studies show 
that system limits are defined by voltage stability 
and not thermal overload, fixed series compen-
sation is the optimal solution. This technology 
applies capacitive reactive power and compen-
sates for the inductive portion of transmission 
losses. The alternative would be a newly built 
line, but the investment cost, environmental 
impact, project complexity, and feasibility are all 
considerably lower in fixed series compensation. 
Technical data
Customer Fingrid Oyi
Project name Hirvisuo
Location Finland
Scope 2x Turnkey FSC, 400 kV, 160 Mvar, and 232 Mvar
Special features  Tailored to ambitioned climate conditions
In service date 20165.8 FSC – Hirvisuo, Finland
 45
Reliability in a high seismic area  
Chile’s energy transition strategy has evolved in 
recent years. Their goal is to convert 70% of their 
total energy consumption to renewables by 2030 
and pledged to become carbon neutral by 2050. 
In Polpacio, Siemens Energy Fixed Series Capaci-
tors (FSC) help to improve their transmission 
capacity and system transient stability. Instead of 
building new lines to provide sufficient transmis-
sion capacity, it’s often better to use our Flexible 
AC Transmission Systems (FACTS) technology.
Since the FSC is connected in series to the trans-
mission line, all the equipment is installed at a 
steel platform at the same voltage level of the 
grid – in this case, 500 kV. For safety reasons, the platform needed to be isolated from the 
ground level with post insulators of the corre-
sponding voltage level, which withstands the 
weight of all equipment.
The solution has a specific design called 
V-Shape, which reduces the number of founda-
tions and insulators needed. Additionally, the 
project is located in a high seismic area. Due to 
these conditions, it became even more of a chal-
lenge by increasing the design complexity and 
site works requirements to assure that the steel 
platform would withstand the strongest force 
and influence conditions of this 
Technical data
Customer ISA Interchile
Project name DS422 Project
Location Polpaico
Scope 2x FSC 550 kV 336,4 Mvar
Special features High seismic design, Industry application
In service date 20205.9 FSC – Polpaico, Chile
Brazil
Argentina
ChileUruguay
46
Notes
 47
© Siemens Energy, 2023                 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transmission  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Transmission  
4601 Six Forks Road  
Raleigh, NC 27609  
USA
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/facts
or contact us: factsinfo.energy@siemens-energy.com