Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Berlin , February  14, 2024  
Siemens Energy addresses the shortage of US 
power transformers and invests in new 
factory    
 
Siemens Energy is addressing the national shortage of power transformers across the U .S. by 
investing $150 million to expand  operation s in Charlotte, North Carolina, creating almost 600 local  
jobs.  
 
Today, only 20% of U.S. large power transformer demand is met by domestic supply with lead times 
of up to five years . Power transformers provide the link between generation and distribution and 
are a crucial part of any electricity distribution network where they convert high -voltage electricity 
into lower voltages. Custom built and around the size  of a standard school bus , power transformers 
are essential components in any grid expansion. They enabl e the reliable transmission of electricity 
over long distances and help stabilize electrical transmission across regions . 
 
Tim Holt, Member of the Executive Board for Siemens Energy, said, “The U.S. energy transition is in 
full swing, with $3.9 billion pledged to expand and update the U.S. grid within the next two years. 
However renewable projects and grid expansion can only h appen with the availability of 
transformers. The U.S. market today is mostly served by the America s and Europe, but as global 
demand for this critical technology increases, we see the long -term potential to increase our U.S. 
footprint, building on our long -standing presence in North Carolina  where we ’ve had operations 
since  1969 .” 
 
In Charlotte, North Carolina , Siemens Energy will add to existing operations by building the f irst 
Siemens Energy Transformer production facility  in the U .S., delivering vital infrastructure to enable 
the countr y’s energy transition.  With the U.S. aiming to reduce  emissions by 50-52% from 2005 
levels by 2030, the race is on to decarbonize the U .S. grid, however that  can only realistically be 
achieved  through the availability of transformers . Studies  predict that 25% of global renewable 
projects are in jeopardy  due to long transformer lead times , supply chain bottlenecks  and lack of Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
global transformer production. Siemens Energy’s investment will address these challenges and 
increase domestic U.S. transformer  production .  
 
In addition to company investment, the  project will also be supported by a Job Development 
Investment Grant (JDIG)  from the state of North Carolina . Governor Roy Cooper announced the 
grant following its  approv al by the state’s Economic Investment Committee .  
 
The energy challenges of today demand flexible grid solutions and transformers that can cope with 
increased demand  and fluctuations that impact grid stability.  Siemens Energy  has been 
manufacturing power transformers f or more than a century  with today’s  rang e delivering well 
above 1,000 MVA  and 1,100 kV . Construction of the factory  will begin  in this year  with the first 
transformers set to be manufactured in early 2026 .   
 
Contact for journalists  
Danielle Turton   
Phone:   +447808 827577  
E-mail:  Danielle.Turton@siemens -energy.com   
 
Jake Rubin  
Phone:  +1 (202) 227 -0321  
Email:  Jake.Rubin@siemens -energy.com   
 
This press release and a press picture is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on X at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated w ith hydrogen, and power generators and transformers.  
Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An 
estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens 
Energy employs around 97,000 pe ople worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated  revenue of €31 billion in 
fiscal year 2023 . www.siemens -energy.com  
 
 