Gas-insulated switchgear Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Bringing Zero closer: Gas-insulated switchgear and busduct With Zero F-gases and Zero harm, our Blue switchgear solutions make a greener grid achievable. Why we need to go for Zero. And why you need Blue. With the energy sector having a greater carbon impact than every other industry combined, the urgent need for decarbonization to combat climate change cannot be overstated. Renewable energy sources are only part of the solution; at Siemens Energy we understand how essential it is to achieve Zero Global Warming Potential (GWP) in the transmission of power as well as in its generation. Most switchgear still uses SF6 for insulation – a gas 24,300 times more climate-hostile than CO2 and one which stays in the atmosphere for up to 3,200 years. Even the new F-gas alternatives are still harmful to the environment when released. That’s not sustainable, as recognized by the new EU-F-gas-regulation. And it’s why we’ve developed our Zero-harm Blue portfolio, including gas-insulated switchgear and gas-insulated busduct. When traditional technology is still needed While we are continuously striving for Zero, it is not yet possible for every voltage level. Thats why we still offer a range of high-performance traditional switchgear. Go to our standard portfolio Zero SF6, Zero greenhouse gases - only clean air The only way to achieve Zero GWP and zero toxicity is by using clean air. Gas-insulated switchgear combine vacuum switching technology with clean air insulation. It operates with Zero harmful greenhouse gases of any kind, with Zero toxic decomposition products and Zero safety requirements during handling and maintenance. 8VM1 Blue GIS Enabling higher voltage levels ​for wind turbines​. It is essential to live energy transition and increase resource efficiency. ​Wind power generation is making a major contribution for the  growing power demand and a new generation of wind power plants require innovative technologies. ​Our compact, environmentally friendly, high-voltage gas-insulated 8VM1 Blue GIS for on- & offshore installations up to 72.5 kV is an optimal contribution to enlarged wind turbine power and reduced cable losses. Flyer 8VM1 Blue GIS 8VN1 Blue GIS The 8VN1 Blue GIS maintains the highest standards of performance and reliability. It delivers high voltages with the highest switching performance without degradation, and is capable of operating in extreme environmental conditions across the globe. 8VN1 is compatible with all previously installed conventional GIS of the same voltage level and saves more than 80% CO2 equivalent over the entire product life cycle. ​The usage of the new Low Power Instrument Transformer (LPIT) reduces the bay length by 30% and weight by 25% which saves even more CO2. Flyer 8VN1 Blue GIS 8VQ3 Blue GIB Also in higher voltages from 245 – 420 kV an SF6 reduction is possible. A combined solution of a conventional GIS together with our Blue GIB saves between 30 – 65% SF6. At the same time, it maintains the highest standards of technical performance and reliability, together with low lifecycle costs. No specially trained personnel is needed for the transport, handling, or operation of the clean air GIB for 420 kV. Flyer 8VQ3 Blue GIB Low Power Instrument Transformer (LPIT) for compact and lightweight GIS design LPITs are innovative voltage and current transformers providing a safe, reliable and standardized solution for measurement and protection applications in GIS. Combined: electronic voltage and current transformer Redundant: two current sensors and one voltage sensor in each bay Multi-purpose: one device for protection and measurement Standardized: same device used for all rated currents Flexible installation everywhere in the GIS Flyer LPIT Essential facts and features Zero environmental impact Zero SF6 and other F-gases Zero greenhouse gas emissions Zero GWP Zero impact on health and safety Zero toxic insulation gases Zero toxic decomposition products Zero special safety measures needed during maintenance Zero regulations on handling of gas Zero disposal of gases required at end of life Zero regulations Zero reporting and accounting of gases required Zero issues with current and potential legislation against F-gases Zero compromise on performance and reliability Voltages from 72.5 to 145 kV High number of short-circuit and rated current interruptions Two-cycle current interruption Full performance down to -60°C ambient temperature Maintenance-free interrupter unit during its lifetime 10+ years of experience in HV vacuum switching Blue gas-insulated switchgear: future-ready and future-proof Services for gas-insulated switchgears We keep the world energized While high-voltage equipment often outlasts its warranty periods, our team of over 2,000 Siemens Energy employees worldwide is ready to support your equipment throughout its entire lifespan. We ensure optimal performance, high availability, and efficiency for your GIS, providing a secure and stable power supply for many years. Learn more Further readings 8VM1 Blue GIS successfully seismic tested The 8VM1 Blue GIS® is now certified to withstand real earthquake conditions. The qualification level was tested “high”, which ensures structural integrity and continuous functionality during highest loads. Technically advanced, environmentally friendly, earthquake-tested, Blue: gas-insulated switchgear Resilience for high-voltage equipment: An 8VN1 Blue GIS typical bay for the 145 kV level successfully passed seismic qualification shake-table tests in line with IEEE 693 high level specifications. Neither the specimen nor the support structure sustained any structural damage or suffered from impaired functionality as a result of the tests. The first order of an 8VN1 switchgear in Denmark Cerius is the first utility in Denmark to order a Clean Air insulated switchgear with vacuum switching technology. Siemens Energy delivers substation of the future Netze BW, Burladingen, Germany Whats available in southern Germany? Find out more! Environmentally friendly, robust and highly efficient products for OEMs of wind turbine generators Siemens Energy has delivered more than 4000 units of sustainable transformers and gasinsulated switchgear for the installation in the nacelles and towers of offshore wind parks. This is an important contribution to the expansion of renewable energy sources, which is in line with the outcome of the latest world energy forum report. Besides, it supports the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Where does a 8VM1 fit in? Read more here! For a greener Finland Siemens Energy has been awarded the contract to deliver ten bays of Blue gas-insulated switchgear (GIS) to Fingrid, Finland’s transmission system operator. It will be the first GIS in Finland that replaces F-gases with clean air, a pure mixture of nitrogen and oxygen with zero potential for global warming. This will be the most significant Blue installation to date. 8D GIS products up to 550 kV 8DN8 gas-insulated switchgear For rated voltages up to 170 kV Very compact and highly flexible configuration Suitable for indoor and outdoor installation Very low level of noise and field emission (EMC) making it suitable for sensitive environments such as residential areas and city centers 8DN9 gas-insulated switchgear For onshore system voltages up to 245 kV For offshore system voltages up to 300 kV Compact, space-saving construction Very low level of noise and field emission (EMC) making it suitable for sensitive environments such as residential areas and city centers 8DQ1 gas-insulated switchgear For rated voltages up to 550 kV High degree of versatility provided by a modular design and active and passive modules Our services for you You can find informational materials on our gas-insulated switchgear here. Downloads Support Services Brochures & flyers GIS from 72.5 - 550 kV (EN) PDF (17 MB) Download 8VM1 Blue GIS up to 72.5 kV (EN) PDF (410 KB) Download 8VM1 Blue GIS up to 72.5 kV (CN) PDF (427 KB) Download 8VN1 Blue GIS up to 145 kV (EN) PDF (344 KB) Download 8VN1 Blue GIS up to 145 kV (CN) PDF (407 KB) Download 8VQ3 Blue GIB for 420 kV (EN) PDF (307 KB) Download LPIT (EN) PDF (424 KB) Download Sensgear (EN) PDF (567 KB) Download Technical data sheets Technical data 8DN8 PDF (359 KB) Download Technical data 8DN9 PDF (364 KB) Download Technical data 8DQ1 PDF (372 KB) Download Customer Support Center Customer support center Register for upcoming events & webinars Siemens Energy fairs, events & webinars Siemens Energy Downloads Whitepapers & Recordings Read more November 26, 2020 5 min read Environmentally friendly, robust and highly efficient products for OEMs of wind turbine generators October 20, 2021 5 min read Siemens Energy delivers substation of the future See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025