Advancing transformer 
performance with 
DC compensation 
technology
38    TECHNOLOGY Advertorial
TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Special Edition: Digitalization  |  2024
  39         www.transformers-magazine.comPeter HAMBERGER  
peding DC current flow and preserving 
grid harmony.
Combatting DC bias: Technical 
insights into noise reduction
Modern power transformers are man -
ufactured using highly optimized 
grain-oriented steel and core stacking 
technologies. Even modest levels of DC 
bias can push transformer core magneti -
zation to saturation, resulting in signifi -
cant noise emission. Stricter environ -
mental noise regulations exacerbate this 
issue and can cause serious problems 
with the operation of transformers. Dif -
ferent sources of DC bias are discussed 
in the technical brochure of the ongoing 
CIGRE working group A2.57.
Siemens Energy’ s innovative DC com -
pensation (DCC) technology has been 
developed to eliminate the adverse ef -
fects of parasitic DC bias, thereby en -
abling transformers to operate with un -
disturbed efficiency.
Balancing act: How DC 
compensation reshapes 
transformer operation
The DC compensation technology ef -
fectively addresses the issue of DC bias 
at the core. By utilizing a robust sensor 
technique to measure the DC magnetiza -
tion of the core accurately, the DC com -
pensation system can counteract the DC 
bias ampere turns by injecting opposing 
DC ampere turns into a small auxiliary 
winding located at the core limb. This 
pioneering technology, known as DC 
compensation, has been developed with 
a focus on high robustness and avail -
ability without the need for installation 
of electronics or semiconductors inside 
the transformer tank. Extensive testing 
has demonstrated the capability of DCC 
to completely neutralize the adverse ef -
fects of parasitic DC bias, allowing the 
transformer to operate with normal 
and undisturbed properties in the field. 
Furthermore, DC compensation has no 
adverse impact on the power network, 
enabling DC bias currents to flow freely 
across the transformer windings with -
out imposing any blocking voltages. 
Additionally, it can compensate for un -
symmetrical DC bias loading, a unique 
feature of this technology, and is galvani -nents in the power grid, a direct conse -
quence of renewable integration, has 
escalated concerns around acoustic per -
formance in transformers. T raditional 
mitigation strategies have proven inade -
quate, prompting the need for innovative 
solutions. Siemens Energy is leading the 
charge with its state-of-the-art DC com -
pensation (DCC) technology, ensuring 
silent transformer operation without im -The power transmission and dis -
tribution landscape is evolving 
rapidly as the integration of re -
newable energy sources intro -
duces complex challenges for transform -
er operations. Among these, mitigating 
noise pollution in densely populated 
areas is paramount, given its impact on 
public health and urban quality of life. 
The rise of direct current (DC) compo -Siemens Energy’s DC compensation tech-
nology ensures silent transformer operation 
while preserving grid harmony amid renew -
able energy integration
Noise under DC bias uncompensated results acceptance test 
on transformer
Change of no-load losses vs. DC in HV of 134.4 MVA unit
40    TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Special Edition: Digitalization  |  2024TECHNOLOGY
cally decoupled from the power systems, 
further enhancing its appeal.
Mechatronic marvel: Exploring 
the inner workings of DC 
compensation technology
DC compensation is effective across 
all power systems of the transformer, 
mitigating the impact of parasitic DC 
bias and obviating the need for cost -
ly enclosure of power transformers to 
meet sound emission standards. This 
integrated mechatronic system com -
prises electromechanical and electronic 
components responsible for DCC sen -
sor signal processing and the regulation 
of compensating DC ampere turns to counterbalance any DC magnetization 
of the core. The system can be divided 
into a DC-ready part, encompassing all 
preinstallable components at the trans -
former, allowing for future retrofitting to 
achieve a fully functional DCC system. 
The development of DCC-ready equip -
ment prioritizes the use of passive ele -
ments, such as the DCC sensor made of 
silicon steel and copper coils without any semiconductor elements, and the DC 
compensation winding, a small auxiliary 
winding situated at the core limb, which 
requires no replacement or maintenance 
throughout the transformer’ s lifespan. 
Completing the system retrofit involves 
a Silicon Controlled Rectifier (SCR) 
controlled reactor for DC injection, 
sensor signal processing electronics, 
and controller electronics, with a small  The mechatronic DC compensation system 
eliminates parasitic DC bias impacts, 
requiring no semiconductor elements and 
allowing future retrofitting
www.transformers-magazine.com
  41         
and its tailored solutions for mitigat -
ing the impact of parasitic DC bias in 
power transformers, contact us today 
to discuss how Siemens Energy can ad -
dress your specific needs and ensure 
optimal performance in your power  
systems.
 
 
 derscores the efficacy of DCC technology 
in resolving noise issues associated with 
power transformers in a demanding op -
erational environment.
T o explore the transformative poten -
tial of DC compensation technology Programmable Logical Controller (PLC) 
ensuring comprehensive system oper -
ation control. Standardized DCC solu -
tions, tailored to different compensation 
power requirements, can be selected to 
address specific DC bias currents, with 
the flexibility to easily scale up the sys -
tem for high compensation power and 
customize it to meet specific needs.
From conceptualization to 
field application: DCC in 
practice
Siemens Energy’ s commitment to advanc -
ing transformer technology is evident in 
the successful real-world applications of 
DCC. A notable implementation includes 
the full integration of DCC within 470 
MV A transformers at a key connection 
point for an offshore wind park within the 
Scottish Power Grid. This application un -Successful applications, like the integration of DCC in offshore wind park 
transformers, showcase its ability to resolve noise issues in demanding 
environments
Author  
Peter Hamberger possesses a diverse background in 
transformer technology. Since joining Siemens Energy 
Grid T echnologies in 1995, he has managed several 
projects and R&D teams for transformer engineering, 
numerical modeling and had the responsibility for 
global R&D for medium power transformers. On the 
material side, he is a member of the Siemens Energy 
global commodity team for grain-oriented steel. Following his passion for 
new solutions, he is currently the senior key expert for power transformers 
in Siemens Energy.
Tank
DC ready transformer (left) and upgrade package to a 
full DC compensation on the right (simpliﬁed)Comp. Wdg.Winding
blockCoreField
sensor
Auxiliary
power
SCADA
system
DC injecting
and limiting
device
(self-powered)DC detection
and regulation 
unit
42    TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Special Edition: Digitalization  |  2024TECHNOLOGY