43
II/2021
www.ehp-magazine.comGENERATION    SPECIALIST TOPIC 
District Heating for Berlin
Vattenfall Wärme Berlin has not only achieved its goal of halving CO 2 emissions by 
2020, but even exceeded them. A milestone in the concept of reducing emissions:  
one of Europe’s most modern combined heat and power plant in Berlin-Marzahn that 
as general contractor, Siemens Energy built – in just over three years.
The history of the Marzahn cogen -
eration plant is closely intertwined 
with that of the city of Berlin. The 
city intends to be CO 2-free by 2050. 
No easy undertaking. This is why 
the power company Vattenfall 
Wärme Berlin committed itself in a 
climate protection agreement to the 
city Berlin to halve its CO 2 emis -
sions – compared to 1990 – in the 
Germa n capital by 2020. Today, this 
has been achieved. Vattenfall’s next 
target is phasing out coal by 2030. 
An important step in this direction 
was the construction of one of the 
most efficient combined heat and 
power (CHP) plants in Europe in 
Berlin-Marzahn – with Siemens 
Energy as general contractor. In May 2020 Siemens Energy handed over 
the new cogeneration plant on a 
turnkey basis after only a little over 
three years construction time. Soon 
thereafter it went into commercial 
operation .
The plant has an electrical output 
of around 273 MW and a thermal 
output of around 232 MW. The heart 
of the plant is an SGT5-2000E gas 
turbine manufactured at the Sie -
mens Energy workshop in Ber -
lin-Moabit – a proven and reliable 
turbine with low capital costs and 
long-term advantages in mainte -
nance and repair. Together with the 
Klingenberg CHP plant (also gas-
fired), the plant in Marzahn is im -
portant to the supply of district heating in eastern Berlin area. 
Combined, the two plants serve 
around 450,000 households – only 
in the eastern part of the city, by the 
way, as underground the city is still 
divided. The eastern part has a two-
pipe system, while West Berlin has 
a three-pipe system for district 
heating. 
Successful bid for interna -
tional tender process
Marzahn represents a power plant 
for the future: It has a maximum 
fuel efficiency of over 90%; it is flex -
ible with short start-up and shut-
down times and can quickly switch 
between full and partial loads. This The new cogeneration plant from Vattenfall Wärme in Berlin-Marzahn proves that industrial facades do not have to be 
dreary: With the day’s changing light, the CHP plant also changes its appearance  Source: Siemens Energy

44
II/2021
www.ehp-magazine.com SPECIALIST TOPIC   UNTERRUBRIKENNAME  SPECIALIST TOPIC   GENERATION
enables it to balance fluctuations, 
which repeatedly occur when feed -
ing renewable energy into the elec -
tricity grid – a necessary compo -
nent for energy transition. At the 
same time, it reliably secures the 
needs of urban heating customers. 
Also, the gas turbine is flexible 
enough to use hydrogen – ideally 
produced with green energy – in 
the coming years. Still, this devel -
opment was certainly also helped 
by subsidies paid by Germany for 
cogeneration plants. They are to be 
paid out over the duration of 30,000 
full-load hours and are supporting 
to amortize Vattenfall’s investment 
costs. 
Following an international tender 
process Siemens Energy was 
awarded the contract as general 
contractor in December 2015. For 
the company, it was a given to pur -
sue this commission. After all, 
power plants are part of the core 
business of Siemens Energy (in 2015 
still part of Siemens AG). Also, the 
plant is located in Berlin, where the 
company has its gas turbine work -
shop and other production facilities. 
“We were convinced by Siemens 
Energy’s technology, important 
components of which came directly 
from Berlin”, says Vattenfall’s pro -
ject manager for the power plant, 
Jochen Ludwig. “Of course, Siemens 
Energy not only supplied technolo -
gy, the company also acted as gen -
eral contractor. And we were right to 
expect them to handle a project of 
this complexity very well”. 
Flexibility thanks to high  
degree of automation
Various specifications by Vattenfall 
and the plant’s location framed 
Siemens Energy’s design in impor -
tant ways. First and foremost tech -
nology. As part of Germany’s energy 
transition, a gas-fired CHP plant 
was required, as natural gas is a 
fuel producing low CO 2 emissions that can be a bridge to hydrogen 
and other sustainable fuels. 
The power plant also had to be 
flexible. In case of low heat de -
mand – as in summer – it is impor -
tant to be able to run the power plant 
at low partial load without stopping 
district heat production. After all, 
heat is also needed on warm days – 
most people want to be able to take 
a warm shower any day of the year. 
This is enabled by a high degree of 
automation and fast controls of all 
components of the plant, such as: 
the gas and the steam turbine, the 
heat recovery steam generator, or 
the air condenser.
High degree of prefabrica -
tion was necessary
The plant’s flexibility also allows 
Vattenfall to take advantage of at -
tractive electricity prices – and, if 
necessary, to compensate for fluc -
tuations in other district heat sup -
ply plants or in the output of wind 
and solar power within minutes, 
thus helping to make renewable 
energies suitable for base load. 
The entire plant had to fit into a 
very compact package as the desig -
nated site was not large. At the be -
ginning of the 1970s, the first CHP 
plant had been built in Marzahn, 
which supplied energy to parts of 
eastern Berlin and Marzahn indus -
trial plants. In the beginning, it was 
fired with Soviet crude oil, later also 
with waste. The waste incineration 
plant closed in 1990 and the remain -
ing power generation plant was 
taken off the grid in 2010. The power 
plant was to be built on this site – to 
be precise, at Allee der Kos  monauten 
at the corner of Rhinstraße. But 
with a total size of only 55,300 m2 
this was certainly a challenge (fig -
ure 1) – and it was clear that a high 
degree of prefabrication would be 
necessary. Regardless, Siemens 
Energy was happy to take on the 
challeng e.Making sure the site is  
secure
While already had been worked in -
tensely on the detail engineering, 
Siemens Energy also took control of 
the site in spring 2017. Various plant 
components on the site had already 
been dismantled in 2011 and 2012 
by Vattenfall. As general contractor, 
Siemens Energy was responsible to 
ensure that the site was secured 
before the cornerstone was laid in 
October 2017. Before taking over the 
site a soil survey and an explosive 
ordnance detection was conducted. 
This was followed by a grid sam -
pling to identify any soil contami -
nation, which showed the ground 
only to be moderately contaminat -
ed.
The plant’s most important build -
ings,  which have no basement,  
are the engine buildings for the  
gas and the steam turbine, the boil -
er building with a 67-meter-high 
stack for flue gases, the feed water 
pump house and the switchgear 
building. In addition, it had to have 
a site for the control room, build -
ings for ancillary systems, a gas 
compressor building, as well as 
administration, storage and work -
shop buildings.
High level of fuel efficiency
The SGT5-2000E turbine weighs 
around 200 t and is about 10 m long. 
It is mounted on a concrete turbine 
table weighing around 1,000  t at 
ground level. The hot flue gas from 
the turbine is fed into a heat recov -
ery steam generator. It also contains 
catalysts in order to minimize ni -
trogen oxide and carbon monoxide 
emissions, which makes it possible 
to keep emissions low even when 
the plant is operated at low gas 
turbine load. The water evaporating 
in the heat exchanger tubes of the 
heat recovery steam generator is 
then fed into the steam turbine 
45
II/2021
www.ehp-magazine.com
SST5-800, which in turn produces 
additional electricity.
This is where cogeneration comes 
into play: An essential part of the 
steam from the steam turbine is fed 
into heating condensers, releasing 
its heat to water for the district heat -
ing network. The water is heated up 
in the plant to a maximum of 135 °C 
and in turn supplies customers with 
energy for heating and hot water at 
a maximum pressure of up to 15 bar. 
Taken together, this ensures a high 
level of fuel efficiency: Up to 92% of 
the energy available in natural gas 
is converted into electricity or heat.
The perfect tie-in point for 
district heating
As said, the system can switch 
quickly between partial and full 
load. One can compare this to a car 
with a turbo engine. The electrical 
output can be increased by at least 
8 MW within one minute and the 
thermal output by at least 5 MW. 
Therefore, it is not surprising that 
Marzahn is one of the most flexible 
CHP plants in Europe today.Another special feature of the 
plant is that hydraulically it is 
placed at the optimal tie-in point for 
district heating for eastern Berlin. 
But since there is no freshwater 
cooling at the site, today there is an 
air condenser to be used at ambient 
temperatures above approx. 5 °C. 
This air condenser helps with con -
densation for excess steam that 
cannot be condensed in the district 
heat exchangers when the district 
heat demand is low.
A table with a steam turbine 
at 18,5 meters height
What made all of this a smooth 
process was the basic and detail 
engineering which was closely co -
ordinated with the customer. Sie -
mens Energy commissioned com -
ponents with design specifications 
such as dimensions, performance 
data and load capacity, which in 
turn came back with all required 
data to develop detailed 3D models 
down to small bore piping. Further -
more the BIM (Building Information 
Modeling) methodology was set up during construction to efficiently 
coordinate the site activities like 
piping installation. Siemens Energy 
also insisted on having almost 
everything enclosed – for work 
safety, energy efficiency, maintain -
ability and soundproofing with 
special focus on ensuring high 
plant availability. 
A particular challenge was the 
building that was to house the 
steam turbine. It had to be designed 
in a way to integrate not only the 
steam turbine, but also its steam 
piping, the district heaters and the 
entire district heat system – and, of 
course, taking into account all pro -
cess requirements. With a close eye 
on ensuring safety, a turbine table 
was built, also weighing approxi -
mately 1,000 t, which was supported 
by six reinforced concrete columns. 
The turbine table is dynamically 
decoupled from the columns with 
spring elements reducing possible 
vibrations and oscillations to a 
minimum. And since the available 
space had to be used in the best 
possible way, then this table was 
lifted to a height of 18.5 m. Figure 1. All tightly put together: The CHP Plant in Berlin-Marzahn was built on a small site due to clever planning und 
plenty of prefabrication  Source: Siemens Energy

46
II/2021
www.ehp-magazine.com SPECIALIST TOPIC   UNTERRUBRIKENNAME  SPECIALIST TOPIC   GENERATION
The look and feel of a steam 
power plant
Most of the piping equipment for 
the district heating is constructed 
around the steam turbine hall. This 
means steam pipes coming from 
the steam turbine or steam pres -
sure reducing stations with diame -
ter of up to 1.8 m. There are also 
district heating pipes with diame -
ters of up to 1.4 m in the building, 
district heating circulation pumps, 
booster pumps, heaters, etc.. Usual -
ly, in combined cycle plants, some 
of these would be housed in sepa -
rate buildings. But in this particular 
case there was no space. So most 
were put into the machine house 
and some into the feed water pump 
house .
This also meant that the assem -
bly sequence of the various compo -
nents and piping had to be figured 
out before starting construction – 
this was achieved with the help of a 
constructability study. And it was 
learned that large components and 
pipes had to be installed while rais -
ing the building around them (fig-
ure 2). Today, the finished machine 
house gives the impression of a 
small steam power plant.
It worked better than ever 
guaranteed
All the effort was certainly worth it: 
In May 2020, Siemens Energy was 
able to officially hand over the plant. 
By then, of course, it had already 
successfully passed the perfor -
mance test and the trial run opera -
tion – working better than ever 
guaranteed. 
It’s particularly gratifying to note 
that the plant’s most important 
building blocks were manufactured 
by Siemens Energy in Berlin or 
within a radius of around 300 km. 
The SGT5-2000E gas turbine in 
Berlin-Moabit, switching compo -
nents such as the vacuum circuit breakers and the generator switch -
gear in Berlin-Siemensstadt. The 
steam turbine came from Görlitz, 
the generators from Erfurt, the  
oil-cooled transformers from Dres -
den and the low-voltage switch  -
gear from Leipzig. Only the medi -
um-voltage switchgear travelled  
a longer way: from Gebze in Turkey .
Hydrogen on the horizon
The power plant is designed to run 
for at least 40 years. During this 
time, however, the plant can still be 
modified – and actually should be. 
If the burners are converted ac -
cordingly, the gas turbine can be 
fired with hydrogen at up to 40%  
by volume. Tests for this purpose 
have already been carried out at 
the Siemens Clean Energy Center 
in Ludwigsfelde. Vattenfall also is 
working on gaining more experi -
ence in operating its CHP plants 
with hydrogen and natural gas 
mixtures. Therefore, it is no sur -
prise that Vattenfall is exploring  
to install an electrolyzer in 
Marzahn for the hydrogen re -
quired.
HSSE Performance
Siemens Energy implemented its 
Zero Harm program on the Marzahn site to support compliance with 
HSSE (Health, Safety, Security and 
Environment) among all employees 
across all hierarchies and all com -
panies working onsite. The Zero 
Harm program specifies the follow -
ing principles:
•  Zero incidents – it is achievable,
•  Health, safety and environment – 
no compromises,
•  We take care of each other.
The implementation of the Sie -
mens Energy Zero Harm Program, 
in combination with the safety be -
haviour regulations, Vattenfall’s 
Golden Rules program and the close 
collaboration of Siemens and Vat -
tenfall on a daily basis onsite, 
achieved good results with respect 
to HSSE. There were no serious  
incidents during the construction 
phase or during commissioning 
leading to a good total recordable 
incident frequency rat e.
Joachim Metzner 
General Project Manag -
er for the Marzahn CHP 
plant, Siemens Energy, 
Erlangen/Germany
joachim.metzner@sie -
mens-energy.com
www.siemens-energy.comFigure 2. All at the same time: large components and pipes were installed while  
the building was raised around them  Source: Siemens Energy
