Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Munich , March 24, 2021  
Siemens Energy’s  reactive power 
compensation technology helps advance 
CO 2-free power supply in California  
• Reactive power compensation plant based on SVC PLUS  technology  
• Project execution time of only 16 months  
• Enables smooth integration of large amounts of wind and solar power  into the grid  
 
Siemens Energy will supply a reactive power compensation  plant to the Los Angeles Department of 
Water and Power (LADWP) . The  plant will enhance  operations at  Barren Ridge  Switching Station , 
LADWP’s renewable energy transmission facility in Kern County, California , about 80 miles north of 
Los Angeles . The plant  will be based  on Siemens Energy’s  SVC PLUS  technology  that combines the 
benefits of sta tic synchronous compensation (STATCOM) and modular multilevel converter  (MMC)  
technology . The fast response of the STATCOM stabilizes the transmission system when the amount 
of power generated by solar, wind or hydro generation changes. The MMC technology allows the 
implementation of this complex technology in a very small footprint  compared to traditional 
solutions.  The new ±200 megavolt ampere (MVAr) SVC PLUS  will provide the necessary voltage 
support needed in the area , where LADWP has significantly incr eased renewable energy generation.  
 
“Constantly increasing the share of CO 2-free, climate -neutral electricity in our grid is one of our 
most important challenges ,” said Reiko Ke rr, Senior Assistant General Manager, Power System 
Engineering and Technical Services at LADWP . “In addition to building new wind and solar power 
plants, targeted investments in our electricity transmission infrastructure are crucial to achieving 
our renewa ble energy goals. Barren Ridge will provide long -term grid stability for our customers  
while supporting increasing amounts of renewable energy in our portfolio .” 
 
“The  great advantage of our SVC PLUS t echnology is that it is even faster than conventional 
solutions ,” said B eatrix Natter, Executive Vice President Transmission at Siemens Energy . “In 
addition, it offers  high  flexibility regarding design and layout of converters and substations. Its 
modularity and low number of system components also reduce comm issioning time compared to Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
complex conventional SVC systems.  This enables a short execution time of only 16 months for the 
Barren Ridge  project so that the reactive power compensation  is ready in time to prevent  voltage 
collapse s or even  blackout s.” 
 
The heart of the SVC PLUS will be two three -phase s tep-down transformer s with  230-kilovolt ( kV) 
and 200-MVA  capacity and an industrial -class insulated gate bipolar transistors (IGBT)  based 
converter. This important installation supports LADWP’s ongoing network enhancement by the 
application of robust technology that continues to prove its value in more than 120 installations 
worldwide. In addition to the plant, Siemens Energy will pro vide extended warranty that will 
maximize availability and operating flexibility for LADWP.  Commissioning of the plant is planned  for 
summer 2022 after an execution time of only 16 months.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Christina H uemmer  
Phone :  +49 152 07158923  
E-mail:  Christina.Huemmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture are available at  
https://press.siemens -energy.com/global/en/pressrelease/siemens -energys -reactive -power -
com pensation -technology -helps -advance -co2-free-power  
For further information on Siemens Energy Transmission , please see https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/offerin gs/power -transmission.html  
For further information on Siemens Energy SVC PLUS , please see https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/offerings /power -transmission/facts/portfolio/svcplus.html  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with  its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
genera tion and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 
50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth 
of the electricity generated worldwide is based on techn ologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion in fiscal 
year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com  