Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.High-Voltage 
Circuit Breakers
From 72.5 kV up to 1100 kV

03  Foreword
04  Modular design
05  Control
06  Monitoring
07  Interruption principles
08  Drive system
09  Development and routine testing
10  Installation and commissioning11  Live tank circuit breakers
13  Dead tank circuit breakers15  Dead Tank Compact
16  Disconnecting Circuit BreakerBrazilIndiaGermany
ChinaUSA
MexicoCustomized products with  
the shortest delivery times  
from our global production 
networkChapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Circuit breakers from Siemens EnergyChapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Modular design
High-voltage circuit breakers from 
Siemens Energy, regardless of type or 
voltage range, are designed in a well 
proven modular platform concept. This 
leads to a high diversity of circuit breaker 
types and to high flexibility with regard to 
various applications according to our 
customers’ requirements.  
 
The main components, such as
• operating mechanism, 
• control system,
• base frame, 
• kinematic chain and
• insulator designs 
• current transformers (DT / DTC)
• pre-insertion resistors (PIR)  are identical and based on decades of 
manufacturing and operating experi -
ence. Our GIS switchgear range also 
includes the same interrupter units, 
operating mechanisms and control 
elements. By applying this proven 
modular design not only at our lead 
factory in Germany, but also within 
our global manufacturing network, 
we are able to fulfill the highest 
expectations regarding availability 
and reliability at eminently competi -
tive prices.  
This modular principle can also be 
found in the type definition of our 
high-voltage circuit breakers.Few basic components leading to a high 
diversity of typesChapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Control
The control system includes the second -
ary technical components required for 
operating the circuit breaker, which are 
mainly arranged in the control cabinet. 
The control, tripping, motor and heating 
power supplies can be selected by the 
customer. Two standard control variants 
are available depending on your require -
ments.
Basic variant
The basic variant includes all control and 
monitoring elements that are needed for 
operation of the circuit breaker, including 
the following:
• Switching operation counter 
• 19 auxiliary switch contacts  
(9 normally open, 9 normally closed,  
1 wiper contact)
• Local actuator Compact variant  
In addition to the basic variant, this 
compact variant includes:
• Spring monitoring by motor run time 
monitoring
• Heating monitoring (current measuring 
relay)
• Light and socket attachment with a 
common circuit breaker to facilitate 
servicing and maintenance work
• Overvoltage attenuation 
• Motor circuit breaker
• Heating circuit breaker
Special customer adapted solutions can 
be offered on request.
Cabinet with control and stored-energy spring drive mechanismChapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Circuit breaker monitoringChapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Chapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Drive systemChapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Quality right from the startChapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Easy installation and  
commissioning  Chapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Chapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Chapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Chapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Chapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Chapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Chapter overview High-Voltage Circuit Breakers | iPDF
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transmission  
Freyeslebenstraße 1  
91058 Erlangen      
Germany
For the U.S. published by    
Siemens Energy, Inc     
Transmission      
4601 Six Forks Road     
Raleigh, NC 27609      
USA
For more information, please visit our website:  
                                                       
or contact us: circuit-breaker@siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2022                 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, 
or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or 
product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other 
companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could 
violate the rights of the owners.