siemens-energy.comCost-optimized design 
of hybrid power plants
White paper
Hybrid power plants are becoming an 
indispensable part of our energy land -
scape. When integrated, these 
elements can be flexibly optimized for 
energy efficiency and adapted to the 
specific conditions of a site. They can 
produce electricity at a lower cost than 
stand-alone thermal power plants 
co-firing or solely burning clean fuels.
The relevance of hybrid  
power plants
We’re building a new decarbonized energy 
system. It’s necessary to counter climate 
change and become independent of fossil 
fuels and countries exporting them. A key 
building block of this energy system will be 
renewables, mainly solar and wind. As these 
sources are intermittent, we also need 
solutions bridging times when the sun 
doesn’t shine, and the wind doesn’t blow. 
Energy storage and thermal power plants 
burning low-carbon or ideally clean fuels 
can fill that gap. And if you put at least two 
of these three elements together in one 
power plant (renewables, storage, and 
thermal power generation), what you get is 
a hybrid power plant. These plants will 
become an indispensable part of our energy 
landscape, not only because they enable 
continuous carbon-free energy generation. 
When integrated, these elements can be 
flexibly optimized for energy efficiency as 
well as adjusted to a site’s specific conditions. That’s particularly true for 
remote locations. 
In remote locations, especially, environmen -
tally sensitive areas, low-carbon or fully 
decarbonized hybrid power plants can gen -
erate electricity at a lower price than stand-
alone thermal power plants co-firing or solely 
firing clean fuels. The key to achieving this 
result is applying a cost-optimized energy 
design. And while this allows building power 
plants that generate carbon-free electricity at 
a competitive price in island mode, it’s also 
relevant for future power plants connected to 
the regular power grid. 
The main economic drivers include decreas ing 
cost for renewables, increasing carbon and 
fuel prices, governmental incentives as well 
as regulations for decarbonizing energy 
generation. In this short White paper, we take 
a close look at power plants with the help of 
Energy System Design (ESD). 
What are hybrid power plants?
While hybrid power plants may combine two 
elements, either renewables, thermal power 
generation or energy storage, they’re most 
powerful when they integrate all three ele -
ments. This way, the drawbacks of one element 
are being compensated by the other elements:
• Though renewables, such as wind and 
solar, are essential to the decarbonization 
solution, one can’t fully rely on them due to 
their fluctuating output. For this purpose, 
energy storage and thermal power plants 
(firing low-carbon or preferably clean fuels) 
can remedy such short-term fluctuations.
• Energy storage solutions, while delivering 
instant green energy (if charged with 
renewables), eventually run out. Such is 
the case for batteries, which are still the 
top choice for storing energy to balance 
load differences in the grid. Thermal 
power generation can assure continued 
power supply.
• While thermal power plants continuously 
generate energy, in the long run, this is only sustainable if fired with a clean fuel, 
such as green hydrogen. Renewables can 
ensure that there’s enough supply of 
clean fuels. For example, they can pro -
duce green hydrogen with the help of 
electrolyzers and storage tanks. 
All elements form a complementary and 
altogether more powerful solution. Indeed, 
this integration wouldn’t work without a 
fourth element: a smart control system, 
including a dispatch optimizer that can 
manage such a dynamic system. In some 
cases, it can do so remotely or even enable 
autonomous operation, thereby lowering 
OPEX overall. 
Since all these components can be individu -
ally configured, they can be adjusted to a 
site’s specific needs, thus ultimately opti -
mizing their use. As a result, these tailored 
configurations can ensure steady energy 
flow, grid stability, and 24/7 power avail -
ability in a wide range of different settings.
Cost-optimized design of hybrid power plants
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 3
Site speciﬁc input data
Load proﬁles
Commodity prices
Renewable generation proﬁles
Climate/weather data
Technology pre-selectionPerformance models 
and parameters
Component cost modelsTechnology related 
input data
Results 
(output data)
Technology 
selection
Optimal 
capacities
Optimal operation 
schedule
Economical and 
ecological dataOptimization objective
€/$ CO2PESizing Selection
(Economic) dispatch of technologies
Energy System DesignEnergy System Design (ESD) 
How can we figure out what makes hybrid 
power plants in remote locations a viable 
business case? With the help of Energy 
System Design (ESD). ESD is a model-based, 
optimized selection and sizing of energy 
conversion and storage technologies that 
meet a specific customer’s energy needs. 
The optimization accounts for:
• the energy system’s loads, for instance 
the electricity and heat demand of a 
factory;
• all relevant options for purchasing and/or 
selling energy commodities and the 
corresponding prices for, e.g., electricity 
and green hydrogen;
• the local renewable potential, for in -
stance the PV generation profile;
• the local climate or weather conditions to 
account for, e.g. the impact of ambient 
temperature on chiller efficiency; and• customer-specific technological prefer -
ences, for instance the inclusion of 
storage prototype or the exclusion of 
wind turbines for an airport’s energy 
system.
Based on a solid understanding of the cus -
tomer’s energy needs, targets and site-spe -
cific boundary conditions, a set of energy 
conversion and storage technologies is de - 
fined and included as an option in a so-called 
model super-structure. The technologies are 
described by performance models on the one 
hand, and cost models on the other.
This data is then run through a state-of-
the-art modelling and optimization tool that 
selects and sizes energy conversion and 
storage technologies. In addition, an 
optimal dispatch is calculated for all storage 
and conversion units that are selected and 
sized.
Graph 1: Energy System Design 
(ESD) is a model-based, opti -
mized selection and sizing of 
energy conversion and storage 
technologies to meet a specific 
customer’s energy needs.
Cost-optimized design of hybrid power plants
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 4
Reference System
Performance
data
SC
SGT-800SC
SGT-800GT GT GT STCC 3x1 SCC-800
TransmissionIsland Grid +
Backup BatteryCost
dataFInancial
data
CO₂-EmissionsElectricity
supplyMineLNG As a result, one obtains:
• optimal technologies,
• optimal capacities,
• an optimal dispatch for the time frame 
under consideration (typically one year); 
and
• model data facilitating economic and 
ecological evaluation.Since each piece of input data is subject to 
uncertainties, scenarios and parameters for 
sensitivity analyses are defined to evaluate 
their impact on the design of the energy 
system. Essentially, one gets a tailor-made 
design for developing a plant with superior 
economic and ecological performance 
across different scenarios.
Example: Hybrid power plant design 
for a mine
Let’s take as an actual example: a hybrid 
power plant design for a customer’s mine 
with an electricity demand between 180 and 
220 MW and no grid connection in north -
western Mexico. It’s no small feat: Energy 
supply is often a roadblock for developing 
off-grid sites. Also energy costs are critical 
for a mine’s profitability. And like with any 
fossil power plant, there’s immense pressure 
to improve environmental performance. 
Starting point
The goal is to develop a power plant that 
delivers reliable, cost-efficient, and low 
carbon electricity supply. To achieve this 
goal, PV or wind turbines are installed on 
available land. Additionally, LNG or H2 can 
be shipped.
The approach taken in this case was to de  vel - 
op a power plant with PV, wind, and storage that generates decarbonized energy. LNG-
fired gas turbines were added for reliability 
and a thorough analysis with the Energy 
System Design methodology was applied. 
As a reference, a highly efficient combined 
cycle LNG power plant was chosen (see 
graph 2). In addition to an efficient three-
on-one combined cycle power plant config -
uration, two open cycle gas turbines are 
installed to ensure security of supply. Addi -
tionally, it has a battery energy storage 
system (BESS) in place to enable a black 
start. With this benchmark, costs and 
savings of hybridization can be measured. 
There are different options for optimizing 
the aforementioned system (see graph 3). It 
includes PV, wind power, additional battery 
storage, and long duration storage, such as 
thermo-mechanical energy storage. In 
addition, LNG could be replaced by green 
hydrogen.Graph 2: Reference system is a 
highly efficient combined cycle 
LNG power plant
Cost-optimized design of hybrid power plants
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 5
Results
Based on the Energy System Design analysis, 
we get different results for the annual TOTEX 
vs. annual CO 2 emissions and optimized 
capacities, from which we can compare 
electricity costs and CO 2 emissions on the 
path to zero CO 2 emissions. They all illustrate 
the advantage of hybrid power plants.
HydrogenPerformance
data
SC
SGT-800SC
SGT-800GT GT GT STCC 3x1 SCC-800 Thermal Storage System
Thermal
Storage
Charge unit
Wind Park Transmission
TransmissionTransmission
PV ParkDischarge
unitIsland Grid +
Backup Battery
BESSCost
dataFInancial
data
CO₂-EmissionsElectricity
supplyMine
LNG
Wind potentialLocation speciﬁc
PV and wind yields
Solar potential
Annual
TOTEXvs.Annual CO ₂
Emissions
¹ LNG ﬁred Power Plant; consisting of 2x SGT 800 Simple Cycle (113 MW) + 3x1 SGT 800 Combined Cycle (216MW), w/o renewable assets, WACC 7%, Lifetime under investigatio =20a, LNG price 9.4 $/MMBtuOptimized Reference¹050,0
46,4118,213029,5
100,0150,0200,0in M$/a
135
0200400600800in CO ₂/a
811
Optimized Reference¹Annual 
CAPEX
Annual 
OPEXAnnual 
CO₂ emissions
Optimized solution shows 16% less annual costs, while
decreasing operational expenditures by almost 80%Quick assessment shows high potential of lowering 
CO₂ emissions - 82% less CO ₂ output compared to reference¹Graph 3: Options for optimizing 
the reference system
Graph 4: The hybrid power plant 
produces 83% less CO2 emissions 
than the reference plant, at an 
annual cost that is 16% lowerAnnual TOTEX vs. annual CO2 emissions: 
Compared to the reference plant, the hybrid 
power plant’s CAPEX is increased and the 
annual OPEX reduced, resulting in a TOTEX 
reduction of 16%. As impressive as this is, 
CO2 reductions are even more significant, in 
that the hybrid power plant generates 83% 
less CO 2 emissions than the reference plant 
(see graph 4).
Cost-optimized design of hybrid power plants
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 6
Installed capacity: To ensure very high 
availability, the CCPP contains two extra gas 
turbines. In case one gas turbine breaks 
down during a maintenance outage of 
another gas turbine, a spare one is ready to 
use. This brings the installed capacity of the reference plant to 329 MW. In addition to 
the reference plant’s components, the 
optimized solution also includes a wind 
farm, a PV installation and an additional 
battery storage system. 
Reference¹
0
¹ LNG ﬁred Power Plant; consisting of 2x SGT 800 Simple Cycle (113 MW) + 3x1 SGT 800 Combined Cycle (216MW), w/o renewable assets, WACC 7%, Lifetime under investigatio =20a, LNG price 9.4 $/MMBtu100329
45329
440 95 40
200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 in MW
0 100 in MWh
Power PlantInstalled capacities
Optimized
Wind  Power PV  Power BESS Power BESS Energy
Route to Zero Emissions - Carbon Footprint vs. Cost
Hint: The characteristics of the curves shown here are highly dependent on local boundary conditions100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
50 100 150 200 250%
%Beneﬁt of hybridizationReference; LNG ﬁred PP=100%
PP + optimal extension
Annual TOTEX; % to referenceFuel Shift LNG » H₂
3$/kg H₂Fuel Shift | 
3$/kg H ₂
min cost | 
all technologies | 
3$/kg H ₂
Reference | 
LNG ﬁred CC + SCElectricity cost and CO 2 emissions:  The 
tradeoff between CO 2 emissions and TOTEX 
is laid out in the graph 6 below. With an 
LNG-fired power plant being the baseline 
with 100% emissions and a 100% cost, we see that a pure fuel shift significantly 
increases cost. On the other hand, if the 
plant is converted to a hybrid power plant, 
CO2 emissions are reduced at a lower cost 
compared to a pure fuel shift.Graph 5: The optimized solution 
has a higher installed capacity 
because it includes a wind farm, 
a PV system, and an additional 
battery storage system
Graph 6: Tradeoff between CO2 
emissions and TOTEX for the 
hybrid power plant
Cost-optimized design of hybrid power plants
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 7
Haru Oni, the world’s first 
large-scale integrated 
carbon-neutral e-fuel production 
facility, demonstrates the 
benefits of hybrid power plantsHowever, it’s important to keep in mind 
that site-specific boundary conditions are 
crucial. To illustrate this, let’s “move” the 
application from the aforementioned site 
in northwestern Mexico to a site in windy 
northern Germany with everything but the 
renewable energy potential remaining the 
same.
Based on an ESD analysis, the renewable 
energy potential in each location has a 
significant impact on annual TOTEX for 
achieving the same CO2 emissions. Decar -
bonizing a site in northern Germany would 
clearly be more costly than decarbonizing 
the site in Mexico, because wind and solar 
together provide less renewable energy. 
However, in both cases the benefits of 
hybridization are far greater than simply 
relying on a mere fuel shift. 
Overall, when calculating the price of elec -
tricity for an off-grid hybrid power plant, 
several additional factors are in its favor. For 
one, rising carbon pricing just like higher 
fossil fuel prices make fossil-fired thermal 
power plants a pricy proposition compared 
to low-carbon or carbon-free ones. Also the 
prices for installing renewables are dropping 
due to improved technology and the 
economy of scale. And depending on the 
region, where a hybrid power plant is to be 
built, other financial incentives, such as 
government subsidies can come into play.Reference: Haru Oni
Now let’s look at an actual reference for a 
hybrid power plant that demonstrates the 
advantage of hybrid power plants especially 
in remote locations. In Punta Arenas, Chile, 
the world’s first large-scale integrated plant 
for climate-neutral e-fuel production is 
being developed by several international 
companies. The e-fuel is produced from 
water and CO2 captured from air by using 
renewable energy from wind for the chemi - 
cal processes. For production, the plant 
takes advantage of the strong and steady 
winds in the Magallanes, the southern  most 
region of Chile. The e-fuel is a liquid energy 
carrier that emits about 90% less CO2 than 
its fossil fuel counterpart, and is simultane -
ously compatible with existing liquid fuel 
infrastructure. It’s currently planned to 
produce 550 million liters of e-fuel per year 
until 2026.
Going forward
No matter the solution, a hybrid power 
plant will always represent a site-specific 
tailored mix and match of technologies. 
There’ll clearly be no one-size-fits-all solu -
tion. Rather, different configurations will  
fit different needs. Ultimately, this flexibility 
also means that hybrid power plants will 
make the most of the resources in any 
situation. Energy System Design can 
 tremendously help plant owners to achieve  
the best configuration. 
Cost-optimized design of hybrid power plants
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 8
The Isabela Island Hybrid Power Plant on the Galapagos Island integrates solar and biofuel sources, an electrical 
energy storage system, and a smart hybrid control systemSite-specific conditions are of crucial 
importance: A hybrid power plant will 
always be a site-specific, customized 
mix of technologies. Different configu -
rations meet different needs. Hybrid 
power plants will make the best use of 
resources in each situation. Energy 
system design can help tremendously 
in achieving the best configuration.

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc  
4400 N AlafayaTrail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA
This publication is provided for informational pur  - 
poses only and you should not construe any 
information presented as legal, tax, investment, 
financial, or other professional advice. The content  
is of a general nature and does not address the 
specific circumstances of any particular market, event, 
application or installation, nor does it constitute a 
comprehensive or complete statement of the matters 
discussed or the laws relating thereto. Any infor  -
mation about Siemens Energy products and services is 
subject to change without notice. Expected capa - 
bilities or benefits may not apply in specific 
applications or be realized in all cases. Nothing in  
this document shall be deemed or construed to  
be a warranty or guarantee of the information, 
product(s), service(s) or method(s) described herein.
All product designations may be trademarks or 
product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. 
KG or other companies whose use by third parties for 
their own purposes could violate the rights of the 
owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.For more information,  
please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/hybrid 
Authors: 
Mario Hüffer, Matthew Johnston,  
Hans Koopman, Jochen Schäfer
Editor:
Hubertus Breuer