Killingholme Rotating Grid Stabilizer conversion Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services Reference Rotating grid stabilizers Killingholme power station converted two retired steam turbine generators to synchronous condensers with flywheels to provide carbon-free grid services. The challenge: Repurpose the retired steam turbines and generators Commissioned in 1992, Killigholme has a rich history of innovation and is home to one of the biggest gas-fired power plants in the UK. As one of the leading power producers in the UK, Uniper has always delivered grid stabilizing services. When the country’s grid system operator, National Grid ESO, launched the Stability Pathfinder project, Killingholme was identified as a prime site for Uniper to provide dedicated grid stability services. For this, Uniper sought to repurpose steam turbine generators decommissioned after the power station was converted from a combined cycle plant to an open cycle plant in 2017. The solution: Convert the generators to Rotating Grid Stabilizers and add flywheels A team of engineers from Uniper and Siemens Energy came together to work on this project amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. Converting an existing generator and retrofitting a flywheel was a first-time project for both teams. Therefore, working closely as one team was essential in developing a bespoke solution for the Killingholme power station. The team removed the steam turbine and reused the generator as a grid stabilizer. Then they added a flywheel in place of the turbine to provide maximum inertia. This conversion provides much needed services to the grid. Siemens Energy was responsible for the supply, installation, and commissioning of major equipment including flywheels, auxiliary systems, electrical start-up systems, excitation systems, and protection. The scope of supply also includes the fully redundant Omnivise T3000 control system including vibration monitoring for the synchronous condenser and its implementation into the existing control room. We also provided civil engineering, pipework, and electrical system integration. Killingholme Power Station in Lincolnshire, UK Rotating Grid Stabilizer with a flywheel at the Killingholme power station Ensuring grid stability is key to integrating more renewable energy. Converting existing equipment into synchronous condensers can support grid stabilization. It also offers economic and environmental benefits. RGS white paper Synchronous condenser operation places high demands on control capabilities for a variety of control modes. The integrated Omnivise controls portfolio covers these requirements and supports grid stabilization. Omnivise control whitepaper The benefit: Provide carbon-neutral grid services and introduce more renewable energy sources Today's power system requires frequency and voltage management to avoid power supply disruptions. Rotating Grid Stabilizer with a flywheel supports this need by providing maximum inertia, short circuit power and reactive power, without burning fossil fuels. The partnership between Uniper and Siemens Energy has yielded numerous benefits: Making use of retired generators Providing essential grid stabilizing services to National Grid ESO without the need to generate power and proactively supporting the UK’s grid stability Enabling the integration of renewable sources while keeping the grid stable and secure Do you have any questions? Please feel free to contact us if you would like to learn more about this reference or Rotating Grid Stabilizer conversion solution. Contact us Are you a Siemens Energy equipment owner? You can access exclusive documents relevant to your unit on the Customer Energy Portal. CEP log-in Read more 3 min read Townsville, Australia: Hybrid RGS conversion to alternate between power production and grid stability mode November 30, 2022 12 min read Ireland's great grid stabilizer 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025