 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 1 
 
  
 ergy.com  Techno -economic optimization of 
industrial energy systems using 
Energy System Design:   
Cost -optimiz ing decarbonization  
for pulp and paper mills  
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 2  
 1 Executive summary  
The pulp and paper industry faces unparalleled financial and 
environmental challenges stemming from forestry practices, 
greenhouse gas emissions, and waste management tech-niques. Among these, the energy systems used in pulp and pa-per production processes have gained significant attention, accounting for up to 30% of operating costs and contributing  
to substantial greenhouse gas emissions.   Siemens Energy has developed an optimization method for en-ergy system designs that holds the potential to markedly en-hance the efficiency, cost -effectiveness, and environmental 
footprint of powering pulp and paper facilities. This design strategy helps mills  minimize costs, curb carbon emissions, 
boost grid independence, and elevate the overall operational performance and reliability of the ir energy  systems.  
 This whitepaper discusses efficient  energy management tech-
nologies and practices within pulp and paper mills while ex-ploring contemporary renewable, conventional, and hybrid electrical and thermal energy solutions for powering  mill pro-
cess systems . Siemens Energy’s Energy System Design method 
is introduced as a holistic approach to identifying energy sys-
tem designs which meet  the technical, financial, and environ-
mental targets of our customers. A case study  details the En-
ergy System Design process at work i n designing the energy 
system for a real customer’s paper machine expansion project. The study  identified energy system  designs that reduced cost 
by up to 22.1% while  reducing CO
2 emissions by up to  26.8% 
than the originally planned energy system  (i.e. reference sys-
tem) . Multiple energy system designs are discussed with their  
sensitivity to uncertainty in the study’s assumptions and infor-
mation. Dispatch profiles are included to demonstrate  the op-
erational differences and opportunities between a cost -opti-
mized design and the reference system . Finally, a decarboni-
zation roadmap is delivered by identifying cost -optim ized en-
ergy system designs with progressively lower CO 2 emissions.  
This work considers hourly -matched CO 2 emissions  accounting 
to identify energy system designs that show a progressive de-crease in CO
2 emissions, ultimately leading to the develop-
ment of a so-called 24/7 carbon -free energy system. This exer-
cise offers customers a practical tool for understanding  the 
cost of decarbonization and what technologies and operating strategies may be required for their energy system.  Energy System Design supports the optimization of energy 
systems  for industrial applications. This powerful tool delivers 
concepts for t urnkey energy system solutions complete with  
technology selection , sizin g, and operation with in one inte-
grated optimization procedure. A successful energy transition 
requires  balancing affordability , reliability, and sustainability. 
Siemens Energy works with our industrial customers to exploit 
each of these in their current and future energy systems by 
guiding the selection and configuration of energy conversion 
and storage assets, identifying utilization opportunities for 
waste streams, and producing world class energy generation, 
transmission, and storage  technologies . 
siemens -energy.com  Page  
02 Executive summary  
03 Pulp and paper industry and its    
energy usage  
05 Energy System Design  
06 Case study: cost-optimal                  
decarbonization of a paper machine  
11 Conclusion  
 
 
Authors  
Joshua Brooks, PhD  
Siemens Energy  
Orlando, United States  
 
Stefan Bruche , PhD  
Siemens Energy  
Berlin, Germany  
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 3 A The  global pulp  and paper industry is valued at over 350 bil-
lion USD and is expected to grow well into the future with the 
shift from newsprint and printing and writing material toward packaging board for consumables 
1. Globally, over 400 million 
metric tons (Mmt) of paper products are produced by over 700 virgin pulp mills and nearly 6,000 paper machines before even 
considering secondary fiber (recycled) repulping operations 
2,3. To accomplish this, pulp and paper mills consume massive 
amounts of energy in driving process es and generating steam.  
 
Pulp and paper mills are historically resourceful energy man-agers, generating as much as 65% of their electrical and steam 
requirements on- site by recovering and burning process mate-
rials (black liquor , solids and other extractives) and other wood 
byproducts. In addition, mills generally recover waste heat and 
steam to minimize freshwater consumption and unnecessary auxiliary heating 
3, 4. Even still, the remaining energy require-
ment must be met by on -site power and steam generation us-
ing fossil fuels or through external power and steam pur-
chases. This supplemental power requirement accounts for up to about 15% and 23% of the total operating costs for virgin pulp mills and paper machines, respectively 
4, 5. The U.S. pulp 
and paper industry consume s billions of dollars on purchased 
fuels and electricity annually 6. In addition to the financial cost, supplemental power consumption by US pulp and paper 
mills contributed to the  industry’s estimated 31.2  Mm t of CO 2e 
emissions  in 2022 alone 7. Improving the energy efficiency of 
both the processes inside pulp and paper mills and the energy systems used for powering these is therefore,  an imperative 
toward reducing overall plant costs and carbon emissions. 
 
There are opportunities available to significantly improve  the 
energy efficiency of many of the core processes within pulp and paper mills. Figure 1 presents the  energy consumption of 
industry -standard technology against both state -of-the-art 
technology available today and the ultimate thermodynamic 
minimum for the most energy -intensive  processes inside  pulp 
and paper mills  
8. The improvement potential afforded by 
adopting the  latest technolog ies is quantified for each process, 
amounting to a total opportunity of 48 % energy savings over 
the industry standard. Historical inertia and cheap and availa-
ble yet carbon -intensive fuel sources have slowed the wide-
spread adoption of these energy -efficient  technologies. How-
ever,  investing in  improvements to energy efficiency in each 
of these areas is unavoidable  as the expe ctations of regulators, 
investors, and the public to decarbonize operations continue 
to grow , and unprecedented tax credit opportunities and fi-
nancial incentive s continue to become available. 
 
 
Figure 1  Current opportunity energy savings bandwidths for processes in pulp and paper manufacturing . Figure adapted from Figure 5 -1 of Band-
width  Study on Energy Use and Potential Energy Saving Opportunities in U.S. Pulp and Paper Manufacturing 8 
  050100150200250300350400450
Paper Drying Paper Machine
Wet EndLiquor
EvaporationWood Cooking Pulp Chemical
PreparationBleaching All Other
ProcessesOn-site Energy Consumption [TBtu/yr]65%
75%2 Pulp and paper industry and its energy  usage  
Industry Standard  
State -of-the-Art 
Thermodynamic Minimum  
Available Savings Today 
Potential Future Savings  
37%  
35%  
38%  
54%  
75%  
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 4 In addition to technology upgrades, pulp and paper mills can 
decarbonize their processes and reduce their energy costs by 
re-evaluating how they generate on -site power and steam. 
Globally, government incentives such as the U.S. Inflation Re-
duction Act and the E.U. Green Deal Industrial Plan have begun to incentivize the electrification of heating and processes, power generati on from renewables, combined heating and 
power systems, and waste heat recovery. These energy system 
opportunities help to  reduce s cope 1 and scope 2 emissions 
but may also be eligible for substantial investment and pro-
duction tax credits.  Some of the best  practices for capitalizing 
on these opportunities include:  • Plant hybridization with renewable energy  
• Substituting coal with biomass and natural gas as the sup-
plemental fuel source  
• Replacing traditional boilers with combined heat and power (CHP) units  
• Electrifying heat  through electri cally powered  boilers and  
heat pumps  with waste heat recovery  
• Upgrading recovery boiler units to gasification with com-bined cycle technology  
• Improving heat recovery from pulp and paper -making pro-
cesses,  including de -inking, drying, cooking, etc. Traditional thinking has led to pulp and paper mill assets being purchased and commissioned for a singular purpose. For ex-
ample, auxiliary boilers and diesel generators have been tradi-
tionally built to source auxiliary steam and electricity, respec-tively. Improvements to the overall mill system have then log-
ically proceeded by upgrading the efficiency of each of its in-dividual assets. A sset upgrades are the central way to improv e 
process energy efficiency . However,  mill- wide efficiency, and 
carbon intensity , will only be significantly improved by consid-
ering energy system designs that cogenerate power, steam, 
heating, and /or cooling, and responsibly manage the energy 
content available between each of the mill’s processes and steam flows.  Siemens Energy’s Energy System Design studies 
help industr ial customers , including  pulp and paper manufac-
turers , to improve the cost, carbon intensity , and reliability of 
their energy systems by helping to identify the  most robust set 
of technologies and operating strategies to meet the custom-
ers energy needs.  
 Siemens Energy has helped customers improve the sustaina-
bility and profitability of their overall operations by facilitating 
the recovery of waste streams. For example, Siemens Energy is currently leveraging its expertise in advanced chemical pro-cesses wit h its hydrogen production technology, the PEM elec-
trolyzer Elyzer P -300
, to facilitate the synthesis of marine fuel 
grade methanol from recovered biogenic carbon dioxide and 
green hydrogen. As a large producer of biogenic carbon, pulp 
and paper mills are in an excellent position to monetize  their 
waste streams through the introduction of similar green fuel synthesis projects.
 

 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 5 Siemens Energy has introduced Energy System Design (ESD) 
to help pulp and paper mills make the right decisions for en-
ergy system expansions, upgrades, and new system designs , 
in light of the need for decarbonized and low -cost energy, the 
current incentive landscape, and the broad range of technolo-gies available.  ESD is a model- based engineering optimization 
study that selects and sizes energy conversion and storage as-
sets to supply  thermal and electrical power to  an individual 
mill or paper machine. Figure 2 summarizes the ESD process. 
 
Energy System Design Inputs  : 
 
• Energy system loads :  electrical,  steam  (High/Intermedi-
ate/Low Pressure) , hot water, or chilled water demand on 
an hourly or sub -hourly basis. 
• Options for purchasing and/or selling commodities includ-
ing pricing : electricity, natural gas, other residuals, etc. 
• Local renewable potentials such as solar PV or wind turbine 
generation profiles  
• Local climate conditions to account for asset impacts such 
as gas turbine or chiller performance. 
• Existing mill assets for potential integration within the en-ergy system design.  
In addition to these  design inputs , Siemens Energy works wit h 
customer s to understand their technology preferences, the 
overall objective of the study , and what constraints must be considered. Traditionally, customers are looking for energy 
systems with a minimum total cost of ownership, but ESD 
studies can also target improv ed carbon emissions, primary 
energy  use, energy -system specific water consumption or 
other attributes , and any combination of these.  
 
Once the c ustomer’s energy needs, targets, and site -specific 
boundary conditions are  thoroughly  understood, a collection 
of energy conversion and storage technologies is defined and 
modeled regarding performance and cost. Each technology is then included as an option within a n optimization  model . The 
model  evaluates many different collections of these, including 
their interconnections, to identify the most competitive  en-
ergy system and asset dispatch strategy for powering the mill.  
 
Energy System Design Results : 
• Most suitable  set of technologies (assets)  
• Optimized  capacit y for each asset  
• Most suitable  dispatch strategy for each asset  
ESD study results are subject to the evaluation period (single  
or multiple  representative year (s)) and provided model data. 
Since each input to the study is subject to uncertainty, a col-
lection of scenarios is strategically defined, and a few param-eters are selected to inform a collection of sensitivity analyses. 
These sensitivity analyses help identi fy the most robust possi-
ble energy system design against a mill’s requirements, tar-
gets, and the uncertainty of future information.
 
 
Figure 2 Energy System Design  is a model -based, optimized selection , sizing , and dispatching  of technologies  to best comprise an energy system .
3 Energy System Design
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 6 
 
 
 
 Siemens Energy has worked with pulp and paper customers to 
reduce the cost and carbon emissions of mill energy systems. 
An ESD study was performed to help one such customer who 
was considering expanding their paper -production capacity by  
adding an additional paper machine. The additional electrical 
and steam demand was estimated at 40  MW e and 85  MW th, 
respectively. The customer was investigating on- site genera-
tion in order to  improve power and steam supply security and 
to take advantage of  existing tax credit opport unities. Siemens 
Energy was tasked with pr oducing  a collection of turnkey so-
lutions for power and steam , which included not only the low-
est cost option  but also those which reduced carbon emissions 
and the cost associated with each.  The presented  case study  is 
a simplification of the complete study performed for the cus-
tomer. The  results are anonymized and do not directly reflect  
the customer ’s actual proprietary  data and study results.  
Reference Case  
The ESD study began by establishing a reference case, to both 
demonstrate the capabilities of Siemens Energy’s modeling 
tools and to establish a baseline for comparing all other energy system designs. The customer’s originally proposed energy system design provided steam and power to the new paper machine using a gas boiler and a combined cycle power plant, 
as shown in Figure 3. The combined cycle power plant includes  
a gas turbine engine with an auxiliary burner, a heat recovery 
steam generator, and a high -pressure  (HP) turbine. The gas 
turbine and HP turbine connect to a generator to produce  elec-
tricity. A small steam turbine converts intermediate pressure 
(IP) steam into electricity and lower pressure process IP steam 
for the mill. A grid connection facilitates the purchase and sale 
of low-cost and excess power, respectively .  
  
The reference system was modeled using Siemens Energy’s 
own optimization tool and verified to estimate system perfor-
mance with in 0.2% of the customer’s expected performance 
based on the new paper machine’s loads, assets’ performance, and costs. Once  verified, this energy system model was 
adapted to represent the expected electrical and steam loads of the prospective paper machine. In addition, a tax credit  for 
combined heating and power (CHP) capacity was considered 
alongside tax penalties for excessive non- CHP gas utilization. 
This energy system design represents the otherwise expected 
“business- as-usual” expansion of the existing energy system  
and, therefore,  establishes the reference baseline for compar-
ing all other system designs developed by Siemens Energy . 
 
Figure 3 Reference system as a baseline for comparison to all other energy system designs . 
 
 
4 Case Study :  Cost -optimal decarbonization of a 
paper machine
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 7 
 
 
 
 Energy System Design Optimization 
Having established both a reference case and agreement on 
the customer’s energy needs, targets, and site -specific bound-
ary conditions, a set of energy conversion and storage tech-nologies was defined and modeled with respect to perfor-
mance and cost. The complete collection of energy system de-
sign options  is shown in Figure 4. In addition to the assets in-
cluded in the reference system, the ESD study consider ed: 
 
• Green (carbon neutral) fuel  
• Cogeneration using an open cycle ga s turbine with a heat 
recovery boiler and auxiliary firing  
• Combined cycle power generation using a gas turbine, heat 
recovery boiler, auxiliary firing, and an HP turbine. 
• Electric boilers 
• Solar photovoltaic (PV) and wind turbine power generation 
• Steam storage and compression and battery energy storage 
• Heat pumps for converting low -temperature heat from gas 
turbine exhaust or paper machine waste heat to high -tem-
perature heat or steam . Heat pumps can offer the added 
benefit of de -humidifying and cooling  exhaust flows from 
other areas in the mill. Th e recovered condensate may be reused to reduce the mill’s total water consumption, and 
the cooler, dryer exhaust may improve other environmental 
emissions properties. 
These technologies are considered based on their potential to 
positively interact within the system, as well as their commer-
cial maturity and fit  for the industry. Performance models de-
fine conversion efficiencies between incoming and outgoing energy or material streams, capacity and energy limitations, ramp rates, and other properties. Cost models define invest-ment costs, operation and maintenance costs, and tax oppor-
tunities.  
 
The optimization environment was then  used to identify the 
lowest cost system by comparing many combinations of the 
available assets, the interconnections between them, and their operation. An additional constraint ensure d a minimum 
amount of backup steam capacity  to be always available across 
the energy system. The next step in the ESD study considers “cost -optimal” energy system designs against the uncertainty 
in the study’s inputs.  
  
The results  in this whitepaper  are simplified from the actual  
study performed in that only a single IP steam is delivered to 
the paper machine  and only the combined cycle power plant 
is considered for on- site power generation. 
 
 
Figure 4  Complete optimization design space including all considered technologies.  

 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 8 
 
 
 
 Sensitivity Analysis  
Although individual optimization results may be exciting, to  
select the  overall  best design, it is important to understand the 
impact of uncertainty in the ESD study’s inputs on the study’s 
results . The most variable input to this specific study was the 
current and future price of electricity. Therefore, a collection 
of twelve electricity purchase price scenarios were considered, 
each containing a one -year hourly forecast. Each scenario is 
shown in Figure 5 on a period -averaged  basis for clarity. Sale 
of electricity was assumed to be available at a rate just below the real time hourly  purchase price throughout the study. 
 
  
Figure 5  Period -averaged e lectricity pricing scenarios . 
 
The complete model was optimized to find the lowest cost en-ergy system across each of the twelve electricity pricing sce-narios. In every case, electricity was purchased from and sold to the electrical grid. Three Siemens Energy gas turbine gener-
ators were considered in the 30 -60 MW range, with the 
SGT-
800 g as turbine delivering the lowest cost option across all 
twelve scenarios. Across the twelve electricity pricing scenar-
ios considered, six unique energy system designs  were identi-
fied as cost -optimal in at least one of the scenarios. These six 
energy system designs , including the sized capacity of the in-
cluded assets, are summarized in Table 1.  
 To determine which of the six designs  is the best decision for 
powering the new paper machine , each were evaluated 
against all twelve electricity pric ing scenarios. Within each 
evaluation, an individual design optimized its asset dispatch to 
minimize the system’s overall cost. The result of this sensitivity 
analysis is a  distribution of the estimated total cost of ownership and CO
2 emissions of each of the six designs across 
the range of future scenarios. The Reference Design  was eval-
uated in the same way  for comparison. Figure 6  shows the re-
sults of this sensitivity analysis. All six energy system designs 
significantly outperform the R eference  Design , offering , on av-
erage,  17% savings to both  system cost and carbon emissions. 
Design 4 offers  the largest  single scenario  benefit with 22.1% 
cost savings while accomplishing a 26.8% reduction in carbon 
dioxide compared to the reference case in the 2040 high elec-tricity rate scenario.  On the other hand, Design 5 offers the 
estimated lowe st cost , and second lowest CO
2 emissions and 
average  standard deviation across all scenarios  considered, 
making it a robust  energy system against all future scenarios.  
Figure 7 shows Design 5 for comparison to  the full optimiza-
tion superstructure  shown in Figure 4. 
 
Table 1  Comparison of cost -optimal designs  and references . 
 
   
 
Figure 6  Sensitivity analysis of all six cost -optimal designs . 
 050100150200250300
0 2000 4000 6000 8000Electricity Cost ($/MWh )
Houry g 
2025 Low 2030 Low 2040 Low
2025 Mi d 2030 Mi d 2040 Mi d
2025 High 2030 High 2040 High
2025 Shock 2030 Shock 2040 Shock

 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 9 
 
 
 
  
Figure 7 Design 5 provides the greatest cost benefit across all  the future scenarios considered . 
Dispatch Profile  
Each optimization exercise conducted within an ESD study 
identifies the strongest  collection of assets and the best dis-
patch strategy for operating these on an hourly or sub -hourly 
basis across the modeling period. Figure 8 compares the rec-ommended dispatch profile for the Reference Design  to the 
cost-optimal Design  5 for a single week . As discussed  before , 
the selection and sizing of assets within a  desig n, as well as 
the operat ing strategy directing the dispatch of th ese assets , 
are what define a specific energy system design . The dispatch 
profile determined within each evaluation is highly  dependent 
on the electricity price scenario being examined, and the pa-per machine’s steam and electricity load profiles.  
 In the Reference Design , a combined cycle gas turbine is used 
to produce electricity and steam from natural gas  in some 
cases while a grid connection and a gas boiler are used to 
source electricity and steam in other cases when it is more eco-
nomical. For example, at low electricity and steam demands or 
low electricity prices, gas boilers are used to produce steam while electricity is purchased from the grid. When the electric-ity price is higher, the gas turbine is operated alongside the gas boiler to meet steam an d power demands, with excess 
electricity being generated for  sale to the grid. 
 In the cost -optim ized Design  5, a combined cycle gas turbine 
is joined by a grid connection, wind power, solar PV power, and a collection of steam turbines for generating electricity, and a  
gas boiler, auxiliary burner, heat pump, and electric boiler for generatin g steam.  The capacity of each of these units is opti-
mized for cost, as shown in Table 1. Here, at low electricity 
prices, steam is generated using the heat pum p in addition to 
the gas boiler while electricity is drawn from the grid. At me-
dium electricity prices, the gas turbine is operated  to produce 
electricity and steam. Excess electricity is generated to drive the heat pump and an e -boiler to supply  additional steam. This 
combined utilization of the units prevents peaks in gas or elec-
tricity draw , avoiding demand charges . At high electricity 
prices, the gas turbine is operated to produce electricity and 
steam. The gas boiler and e -boiler assist with steam produc-
tion. Although the heat pump more efficiently converts elec-
tricity into steam, it is limited by its minimum operating part-
load and therefore is replaced by the e -boiler for steam gener-
ation in this condition. Including the heat pump, e -boiler, 
wind, and solar assets alongside the gas turbine, steam tur-
bines, and boilers allows for more strategic operation in re-
sponse to real -time electrical and steam loads  and electrical 
pricing. A diverse set of assets also offers a more flexible sys-
tem for minimizing actual operating costs across the range of 
possible future scenarios.

 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 10  
Figure 8 Hourly asset dispatch  profiles.  
Decarbonization  
The study thus far has successfully identified a very strong can-
didate energy system for supplying the expanded mill with the lowest cost electrical power and steam in light of future uncer-tainties. Next , Siemens Energy helped the customer  to identify 
energy systems which minimize their CO
2 emissions in addi-
tion to cost . To do this, the complete superstructure shown in 
Figure 4 was re -optimized with the objective of finding the 
lowest cost energy system design  across a series of constraints 
on the maximum a mount of CO 2 emissions allowed. Figure 9 
compares the cost and CO 2 emissions of the energy system de-
signs developed across progressively more severe CO 2 emis-
sions constraints for a single electricity price scenario. R esults 
show normalized values against the original R eference Design .  
 The ESD study first identifie d the lowest cost design, as dis-
cussed in the previous sections.  Within this study , the lowest 
cost design is Design 4 from the sensitivity analysis,  consist ing 
of a combined cycle  power plant, LP turbine, wind turbine, 
electric boiler, gas boiler, and a heat pump to convert mill 
waste heat into process steam. This is seen visually in Figure 9 
by moving down (lower CO
2 emissions) and to the left (lower 
cost)  from the Reference Design . In this specific study, i n order 
to reduce the  cost-optimal  energy system design’s  CO 2 emis-
sions by 10% , new technologies in the form of battery energy 
storage, a low -cost PV array, and a small amount of low -carbon 
fuel was required , leading  to a slight increase in cost. This en-
ergy system design may then be further decarbonized, down to about 70% lower than the cost -optimal design by replacing 
conventional natural gas with low -carbon fuel . This is see n vis-
ually in Figure 9 by moving down (lower CO
2 emissions) and 
to the right (higher cost). At this point, additional higher cost PV energy generation, and flue gas waste heat recovery 
through a heat pump are required to continue reducing the 
system’s CO 2 emiss ions. Finally, to completely eliminate the 
system’s CO 2 emissions,  green fuel must completely replace 
conventional natural gas. This result considers hourly time -
matched CO 2 emissions accounting and exemplifies a so-called 
24/7 carbon -free energy system design. These results are spe-
cific to the unique boundary conditions and requirements con-
sidered in this study, but demonstrate how powerful of a tool 
an ESD stud y can be for decarbonization pathway planning at 
the mill or fleet level.  It is possible that u nder different condi-
tions, for example with  the consideration of ma rkets for re-
newable energy certificates (RECs) or Guarantees of Origin 
(GO)  for produced electricity , a different specific pathway to 
decarbonization would likely emerge. ESD helps stakeholders 
understand the  actual  costs of reducing CO 2 emissions.  
Figure 9 Estimation of CO 2 emissions vs cost of energy system designs.  

 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 11 5 Conclusion
Siemens  Energy has introduced Energy System  Design  as a 
powerful tool to deliver  its customers  concepts for turnkey en-
ergy system solutions to optimize the afford ability, reliability, 
and sustainability of current and future pulp and paper mills  
tailored to individual customers demands .  
 
This whitepaper discuss ed energy and carbon management 
technologies, practices, and opportunities within pulp and pa-
per mills. In addition, a case study detailed the actual deploy-
ment of Energy System Design toward the development of the energy system needed to drive a paper machine expansion. The cost optimization study identified energy system designs 
that consistently outperformed the original Reference Design 
alternative by reducing cost and carbon emissions by an aver-
age of 17%. In one considered futur e scenario, a cost -optimal 
design identified in the study offered cost savings of 22.1% 
while emitting 26.8% less carbon than the Reference Design.   Each energy system design consists of its included technolo-
gies, the interconnections between these, and the dispatch, or operating strategy, of each. Dispatch profiles are included to 
demonstrate the operational differences and opportunities be-tween a cost -optimal design and the reference system. Multiple energy system designs are discussed with their sensi-tivity to uncertainty in the studies' assumptions and infor-
mation. Finally, a decarbonization pathway is delivered by 
identifying cost -optimal energy system designs with progres-
sively lower carbon emission s, culminating in a design which 
is a so-called  24/7 carbon- free system . This exercise offers cus-
tomers a practical tool for understanding the cost of decarbon-ization and what technologies and operating strategies may be required to  completely de carbonize their energy systems. 
 Energy System Design supports the optimization of energy 
systems for industrial applications. This powerful tool delivers 
concepts for  turnkey energy system solutions complete with 
technology selection, sizing, and operation within one inte-
grated optimization procedure. A successful energy transition requires balancing affordability , reliability, and sustainability. 
Siemens Energy works with its industrial customers to maxim-
ize each of these in their current and future energy systems by 
identifying robust energy system designs, guiding cost and en-vironmentally positive waste management strategies, and de-livering the world’s most efficient  industrial energy technolo-
gies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Source -list 
1. Fortune Business Insights : Pulp and Paper Market S ize, Share & COVID -19 Impact Analysis, By Category (Wrapping & 
Packaging, Printing & Writing, Sanitary, New Print, and Others) and Regional Forecast, 2022 -2029  (2022)  
2. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations: Forest Products Yearbook (2019)  
3. Fisher  International: FisherSolve (2023)  
4. TAPPI Press: Handbook for Pulp and Paper Technologists, 4th Edition (2016)  
5. Fisher International: A Retrospective on 90 Years and the Future of the Paper Industry (2019)  
6. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory:  Energy Efficiency Opportunities in the US Pulp and Paper Industry (2009)  
7. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency: Greenhouse Gas Report Program Pulp and Paper (2023)  
8. U.S. Department of Energy  Report: Bandwidth Study on Energy Use and Potential Energy Saving Opportunities in US Pulp 
and Paper Manufacturing (201 5)
  
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page 12 
 
 
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy  
Transformation of Indust ry, Energy System Design  
 
Freyeslebenstrasse 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany  
 
Siemens Energy Inc.  
4400 N. Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL, 32826, USA  
 
 
For more information, please visit our website:  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/home/products- services/ser-
vice/energy -system -design.html  
 
 
Disclaimer:  
This publication is provided for informational purposes only and you 
should not construe any information presented as legal, tax, investment, 
financial, or other professional advice. The content is of a general nature 
and does not address the specific circ umstances of any particular market, 
event, application or installation, nor does it constitute a comprehensive 
or complete statement of the matters discussed or the laws relating 
thereto  and is not an offer of Siemens Energy or a publicly granted war-
ranty . Statements related to potential savings and/or revenues in this 
publication are based on assumptions in relation to future technical, en-
ergy / commodity market and other frame conditions. Siemens Energy as-
sumes no liability for the accuracy of forecasts which have been incorpo-
rated as input parameters in the services. Any information about Siemens 
Energy products and services is subject to change without notice. Ex-
pected capabilities or benefits may not apply in specific applications or 
be realized in all  cases. Nothing in this document shall be deemed or 
construed to be a warranty or guarantee of the information, product(s), 
service(s) or method(s) described herein.  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.    
   