26 | May 2023 | www.modernpowersystems.comHydrogen in gas turbines  |
When we set up our Zero Emission Hydrogen 
Turbine Center (ZEHTC) just over three 
years ago, our main research goals were to 
gain more expertise on the added value of 
hydrogen gas turbines and energy storage for energy enters the system, energy storage and 
dispatchable power become more important.
To understand the value of hydrogen gas 
turbines for the system, we need to compare 
the cost of a future decarbonised power system 
both with and without hydrogen storage 
coupled to re-generation capacity. This system 
modeling was done by Chalmers University of 
Technology as part of the ZEHTC project. The 
project concluded that time-shifting electricity 
generation using hydrogen adds value to the 
European energy system by reducing average 
electricity costs by up to 15% (strongly depending 
on the region), because over-dimensioning of 
all other equipment was shown to be more 
expensive than including hydrogen storage 
and re-generation capacity. Siemens Energy’s 
modelling shows similar results, for both Europe 
and other regions. These research results clearly 
demonstrate that the storage of hydrogen and 
re-conversion to electricity makes economic 
sense in future energy systems.
One decisive advantage is that the hydrogen 
gas-turbine power plants won’t have to be 
built from scratch: many existing plants can be 
converted to use hydrogen with a manageable 
effort. Zero Emission Hydrogen 
Turbine Center at Finspång  
– four things we’ve learnt
At the beginning of 2019, Siemens Energy and five partners launched a research project on the site of its industrial 
gas turbine manufacturing plant in Finspång, Sweden. The Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center has since 
served as a demonstration plant for a flexible and sustainable energy system. It combines gas turbines with a 
photovoltaic field, an electrolyser, hydrogen, and batteries for energy storage
Åsa Lyckström  sustainability strategist, Siemens Energy, Finspång, Sweden
Partners:
   University of Bologna, Italy
   Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden
   County Administrative Board of Östergötland, 
Sweden
   Finspång Municipality Administrative 
Authority, Sweden
   Siemens Energy AB
   Linde Gas AB
Funding:
The project has received funding via the EU 
ERA-Net Smart Energy Systems initiative, with 
support from the European Union’s Horizon 
2020 research and innovation programme 
under grant agreement No 775970
Websites:
   zehtc.org
   siemens-energy.com/zehtcZEHTC partners and funding
Above:  View of the Siemens Energy plant in Finspång, location of ZEHTC. In the foreground is the photovoltaic system  
and behind that the electrolyser, with hydrogen tank, and the control room for battery storage
a sustainable energy system. We also wanted 
to expand our hydrogen testing resources to 
improve the hydrogen capability of our gas 
turbines and “capture” some of the excess 
electricity generated during on-site testing 
of our gas turbines to produce hydrogen. By 
using this hydrogen for new testing, we were 
able showcase a very smart circular system for 
reducing our CO2 emissions on-site. Working 
with our partner universities, we’ve built valuable 
knowledge about how we can design future 
energy systems and what the role of hydrogen 
will be.
Learning number 1: hydrogen 
reduces average electricity costs in 
decarbonised energy systems
Future energy systems will consist of many 
different “pieces of the jigsaw puzzle.” Hydrogen 
used to run gas turbines is one piece of the 
puzzle that will make surplus electricity a key 
factor in future energy systems. At present, if 
wind and solar power plants produce more 
electricity than needed, the first step is to 
reduce power production from fossil power 
generation facilities like coal, oil, and natural 
gas power plants. However, as more renewable 
www.modernpowersystems.com | May 2023  | 27 | Hydrogen in gas turbines
Learning number 2: hydrogen gas 
turbines provide plannable electricity in 
wind-dominated power systems
Wind and solar power plants are fluctuating 
sources of electricity generation. However, they 
differ greatly in the way they fluctuate – and that’s 
an important factor when considering them for 
future power systems. Photovoltaic systems 
depend on solar radiation, so they only produce 
electricity during the day. Conditions can change 
from sun to cloud and vice versa several times 
a day and for just a few minutes. Wind, on the 
other hand, fluctuates much less strongly and 
frequently.
We have therefore calculated that hydrogen 
gas turbines are a good solution for balancing 
renewables in wind-dominated power systems. In 
contrast, battery storage plays a major role in solar-
dominated power systems, where fluctuations are 
shorter and more frequent. In the solar-dominated 
system, with energy storage, hydrogen gas turbines 
can assume more of a back-up role with fewer 
operating hours. In addition, in a decarbonised 
energy system based on wind and solar power, 
demand-side behaviour also has an important 
impact. The load on the grid, for example, can be 
relieved through the intelligent charging of electric 
vehicles and the flexible operation of electrolysers 
and heat pumps.
In a real world net-zero power system, both 
short-term (for example, battery) and long-term 
(for example, hydrogen) storage need to work 
side by side.
Learning number 3: hydrogen-based 
power plants can be critical for ensuring 
electrical grid stability
In future energy systems, hydrogen-fuelled 
gas-turbine power plants will start up whenever 
wind and solar power plants can’t meet current 
electricity demand by using hydrogen previously 
produced from surplus electricity. Because the 
load-cycling capabilities of modern gas turbines 
are extremely good, they can make a significant 
contribution to grid stability and security of 
supply. The ZEHTC project estimates that gas 
turbines in net-zero electricity systems will 
perform about 100 starts per year and operate 
about 2000 hours per year. Even though those 
numbers sound low, gas-turbine power plants will be essential in the net-zero electricity system 
due to their flexible peaking and back-up power 
capabilities – and because gas turbines are well-
suited for providing grid services like spinning 
reserve, inertia, and reactive power when needed. 
This makes hydrogen gas turbines an appropriate 
technology for densely populated areas.
The prediction is that combined cycle, 
cogeneration, and simple cycle installations will 
be needed. Today many gas turbines are installed 
in cogeneration combined cycle power plants, 
where the heat generated from the gas turbine 
is used in a heat recovery steam generator that 
produces additional electricity in a steam turbine, 
and the residual heat from the gas turbines 
is utilised to generate district or process heat. 
Those installations are delivering an overall 
efficiency of above 90%, and in energy systems 
where heat is needed, they’ll also be essential in 
the future. However, open cycle gas turbines will 
be vital in the future energy system too, and their 
numbers may increase, mainly in applications 
with few operational hours and to provide back-
up power and grid services.
Learning number 4: liquid green fuels 
are a valuable complement to hydrogen
Hydrogen produced from renewable power 
sources will provide dispatchable green power 
and will be central to decarbonised energy 
systems. Surplus electricity can be converted 
into hydrogen by an electrolyser. For example, 
if wind power surpluses occur in the northern 
part of a country, the hydrogen produced can 
be transported to the wind-poor south and 
stored there to be reconverted to power later 
using hydrogen gas turbines. However, when 
the hydrogen isn’t produced close to where it’s 
used, it needs to be transported – for example, 
in a pipeline network. Or, because hydrogen is 
voluminous, it can be converted into a liquid 
that’s easier to both transport and store. 
Liquid biofuels are an important alternative for 
locations that can’t be connected to a pipeline 
network.
Possible energy carriers could be ammonia 
(by mixing hydrogen with nitrogen), or methanol 
(mixing it with CO2). When hydrogen is converted 
to a liquid fuel, it’s easier to store for longer 
periods. Liquid green fuels, employed in gas turbine power plants, are appropriate for time-
shifting electricity production to match demand.
Other economic advantages may be derived 
from flexibly blending hydrogen with biofuels. 
This will strengthen the competitiveness of power 
plants by allowing the gas turbines to operate using 
different fuel mixes depending on the availability 
and pricing of different fuels: for example, during 
periods when hydrogen is expensive. 
How we’ll move forward
It remains a major challenge for all of us to 
achieve the CO2 reduction targets set in the Paris 
Agreement. At Finspång and in Siemens Energy 
as a whole, we’ll make an important contribution 
to progress by continuing to focus on developing 
and manufacturing gas turbines that can run on 
hydrogen and other low-carbon fuels.
The ZEHTC project has now come to an 
end and the consortium is dissolved but the 
demonstrator plant will continue to operate. 
In the near future, Siemens Energy will be 
expanding the hydrogen storage capacity to 
provide sufficient hydrogen for our own R&D 
activities, which include conducting gas turbine 
tests using 100% hydrogen. The technology for 
running gas turbines on gas with a high hydrogen 
content is already available today when you 
either invest in a new gas turbine or retrofit an 
existing one. Targetting 2025, Siemens Energy 
intends to offer mid-sized gas turbines with dry-
low emission (DLE) technology that can run on 
100% hydrogen.
It’s also important to mention that more 
and more full-scale projects are being planned 
and launched. Just recently, the German 
utility EnBW announced a new pilot project 
with Siemens Energy for H2-ready gas turbine 
delivery. The EnBW Stuttgart-Münster plant in 
Germany will have two 62 MW SGT-800 gas 
turbines that can handle up to 75% hydrogen 
admixture on delivery in 2024. The project 
includes a maintenance contract to upgrade the 
gas turbines to run on 100% hydrogen when 
sufficient hydrogen is available.
It’s not possible to reliably forecast when green 
hydrogen will be available in sufficient quantities 
and at affordable prices. Future innovations in 
hydrogen production and transportation will have 
a major impact on when we can create a net-zero 
energy system.
However, we’ll do everything we can to develop 
and offer economic hydrogen solutions in order 
to give the hydrogen economy a strong boost as 
an important part of the energy transition. 
SGT-800 gas 
turbine*  Based on historical 
weather data and 
hourly load demand 
for Germany
*  Optimised for 
a stable 100% 
renewable electricity 
system for a city of 
250 000 inhabitants, 
including industry
*  Based on 2022 
values for system 
levelised cost of 
electricity (LCOE), 
gas price and CAPEXA net zero electricity system
