Comprehensive Design, Rating, and Data 
Management for Your Last Line of Defense
Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager is an enterprise-
level process safety application used by oil and gas, refining, 
and chemical process industries for design, rating, and 
data management of pressure relief and disposal systems 
in accordance with industry standards and best-practice 
methodologies.
Company-specific guidelines, recommended and generally 
accepted good engineering practices (RAGAGEP), and 
regulatory requirements stress the importance for process 
plant operators to comply with process safety best practices 
and keep process safety information evergreen.
Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager utilizes a single 
data repository that provides process safety engineers and 
managers across the world a collaboration platform to ensure 
visibility into the adequacy of relief and disposal systems 
and manage the design basis for such critical process safety 
barriers throughout the plant lifecycle.
Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager is enhanced 
using Siemens Energy product development methodology 
which includes secure design practices and quality assurance 
processes.Our Expertise
Siemens Energy pioneered the equipment-based Pressure 
Relief Analysis (PRA) methodology and is the world’s leading 
provider of pressure relief technology.
Siemens Energy‘s expertise is unique because:
•  Developers of Best Practice approach  to Pressure Relief 
Analysis and corporate standards implemented by major 
international oil and gas, refining and chemical companies.
•  Global Process Safety Consulting Services  provider with 
nearly 5,000 projects completed.
•  Our people are API and DIERS contributing members and 
subject matter experts in pressure relief design and analysis, 
and product development and software delivery experts.
•  Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager  offers users 
a robust process safety information management system 
with over 40 calculation methods for relief device sizing, 
flare header analysis, and maintaining evergreen data 
throughout the plant lifecycle.
siemens-energy.comProcess Safety  
Pressure
Protection  
Manager
Published by
Siemens Energy  
Electrification, Automation, Digitalization (EAD)  
Process & Safety Consulting  
USA Headquarters
1200 W Sam Houston Pkwy North  
Houston, TX 77043, USA
Asia Pacific: Singapore  
Canada  
Europe: Belgium and Romania  
Middle East: KSA and UAE
info.ogconsulting.energy@siemens-energy.com
Siemens Energy Customer Software Support Portal
cep.siemens-energy.com
Pressure Protection Manager is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH & Co. KG or its 
affiliates registered in one or more countries
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains 
general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically 
reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract .
© 2024 Siemens EnergyOur Value, Our Customer
•  Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager Cloud: 
Enables customers to quickly scale usage across their 
enterprise and provide faster access to software 
enhancements. Cloud delivery may increase the return on 
investment for Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager 
and associated process safety consulting services through 
productivity gains and optimized total cost of ownership.
•  Unprogrammed PSM Inspections: If a regulatory officer 
knocked on your door today, how prepared would you 
be? Without Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager, 
you would need to spend significant resources to put 
together the documentation. An investment in Process 
Safety Pressure Protection Manager will have your process 
safety information and design basis available in a matter of 
minutes, saving your organization potential citations, time, 
and unforeseen costs.
•  Evergreening: Trevor Kletz was fond of repeating: “There’s 
an old saying that if you think safety is expensive, try an 
accident.” Based on our extensive research over 25+ years 
executing projects, findings show only 60% of pressure 
relief devices meet design standards. With Process Safety 
Pressure Protection Manager, relief device information 
can be kept up-to-date, accurate, and accessible – helping 
ensure safe plant design and operation.
•  Interoperability: According to a NIST report, lack of 
informational interoperability has a high impact on the 
cost of capital investment and projects. While designing 
new processes, associated equipment, and/or piping, 
Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager allows you 
to easily design pressure relief and disposal systems. 
Information needs to be entered only once in Process 
Safety Pressure Protection Manager and it is available  
to all stakeholders instantaneously which allows for  
fast, error-free information hand-over from engineering  
to operations.Core Capabilities
•  Equipment- and system-based pressure relief analysis 
determines all overpressure scenarios and the adequacy of 
installed pressure safety valves, rupture disks, and piping 
vents.
•  Calculation methods to determine required relief rates 
and stream properties, including two-phase relief scenarios 
based on API and DIERS methodologies.
•  Designverification  for pressure relief and disposal 
systems at various phases in the plant lifecycle.
•  Disposal system analysis  includes rating methods for 
knockout drum separation efficiency and hold- up capacity, 
and flare tip pressure drop and radiation.
•  Process Safety Pressure Protection Manager interfaces  
with industry-leading relief header simulation software 
to determine disposal system pressure and temperature 
profile for back pressure calculations.
•  Single repository  for immediate access to PSM-related 
information and management of design basis for different 
plant modes of operation.
•  Advanced reporting  capabilities (standard or custom) for 
improved analysis and design deficiencies tracking and 
mitigation.
•  Role- and resource-based security  allows for the 
management of user access to data. Permissions can be 
granted as widely as an organization, as narrowly as a 
single operating unit, and any level in between.
•  Flexible licensing models  tailored to your requirements 
including software updates, technical support, different 
user types, installation options, and license terms.