siemens-energy.com
Cybersecurity  
Consideration in Process 
Hazard Analysis
White Paper 
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy
Table of contents
Introduction
Types of Attacks
General Approach
Safeguards
Conclusion
ReferencesPage 3
Page 3
Page 5
Page 6
Page 7
Page 7White Paper  l Cybersecurity Consideration in Process Hazard Analysis 
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 2
Introduction
Process hazard analysis (PHA) is an essential element of 
process safety management and widely adopted to evaluate 
systematically the hazards associated with process plant design 
and operation and to minimize the risks associated with such 
hazards. Traditional methods such as Hazard and Operability 
(HAZOP) and What-if / Checklists have been successfully 
applied by using a team-based approach to evaluate potential 
design flaws or deviations from safe design and operational 
practices as well as to identify initiating events, assess potential 
consequences of such events, and implement acceptable 
safeguards or barriers to prevent or mitigate the consequences. 
Relationships among initiating events, safeguards, and 
consequences are evaluated in depth but generally based on 
unintentional causes such as human error or some unexpected 
failure of equipment, instrumentation, controls, or safeguards.
Attacks using cyber technology on process facilities have been 
well-publicized, such as the so-called Stuxnet computer worm 
that might have infected industrial control systems in several 
countries, impacting plant operations and damaging plant 
equipment. Another cyberattack using so-called spear-phishing 
techniques has occurred at a German steel mill, impacting 
both control and safety instrumented systems and resulting 
in physical damage to a furnace system. Common types of 
cyberattacks together with further details on the examples cited 
above are provided below.Total costs to companies that are victims of cyberattacks are 
easily in the billions of dollars per year and are likely under-
reported as companies seek to avoid negative publicity and loss 
of clients or business as well as many companies may not have 
resources to detect and recover from such attacks, let alone to 
prevent future attacks.1 Therefore, the impacts of cyberattacks 
have often been realized but not fully quantified.
A systematic method to integrate cybersecurity analysis as part 
of a PHA/HAZOP is presented in this paper.
Types of Attacks
Cyberattack vulnerability could be traced to the exploitation 
of various complex network loopholes thus allowing malicious 
software to penetrate inadequate firewalls or be introduced  
into a computer network by means of a USB thumb drive. A list 
of some of the common cyberattack methods is highlighted 
below.2
•  Malware: Code with malicious intent that typically steals data 
or destroys something on the computer.
•  Phishing:  Phishing emails include a link that directs the user 
to a dummy site that will steal a user’s information. In some 
cases, all a user has to do is click on the link.
•  Man in the Middle (MITM): Gains access through a non-
encrypted wireless access point. They would then have access 
to all of the control information being transferred between 
both DCS and equipment.
•  Malvertising:  Compromise your computer with malicious 
code that is downloaded to your system when you click on an 
affected ad.
•  Rogue Software:  Malware that masquerades as legitimate 
and necessary security software that will keep your system 
safe.
•  Drive-By Downloads:  Through malware on a legitimate 
website, a program is downloaded to a user’s system. It 
doesn’t require any type of action by the user to download.As the process industry evolves toward 
greater reliance on and integration with 
information technology, it is critical to 
also consider malicious and intentional 
disruption of process operations by 
parties who might exploit the enhanced 
capabilities and integration of modern 
communication with process controls and 
operations.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 3White Paper  l Cybersecurity Consideration in Process Hazard Analysis 
Such assessment would include an extensive mapping of the 
control system network architecture, detailing how control 
and communication functions are implemented between the 
DCS and field devices such as process sensors and actuators 
for control valves. In addition, communication links between 
the control system and the network or workstation operating 
system environment as well as with the business enterprise 
software and the outside world (through the internet) are 
mapped and then partitioned into zones with conduits allowing 
for communication between zones based on the type and 
criticality of function, access control, etc. Target security risk 
levels are assigned for each zone, and appropriate safeguards 
are implemented to ensure target levels are met.3
1.  Case Study Malware Attack: The Stuxnet Virus Centrifuge 
Breach
The Stuxnet was introduced by the infection of a computer and 
propagated to all other connected machines running Microsoft 
Windows. Stuxnet was a malicious worm virus.
The virus apparently compromised the target systems at 
the Iranian Natanz nuclear plant and took control of the 
centrifuges, misleading operations by overriding the process 
variables and giving false feedback to the outside controllers 
(alarm and automatic safety shutdown system) and thus 
reportedly caused the impacted centrifuges to spin outside their 
safety operating limits and to fail eventually.
Later, a separate operating company confirmed a potential 
Stuxnet virus breach on its machines, indicating the virus might 
have inadvertently spread beyond its intended target (Natanz 
plant) possibly due to a programming error and thus allowing 
the worm to spread from an engineer‘s infected computer to 
the internet.4
2.  Case Study Spear-Phishing Attack: Steel Mill Furnace 
Breach
Germany’s Federal Office for Information Security (or BSI), 
indicated the attackers gained access to a steel mill through 
its business network and then worked their way into the 
production network, gaining access to the control systems for 
plant equipment. 5 This type of attack is known as “Jumping” 
where the intrusion is in one area of the company’s network but 
then jumps to another. The breach was in the business network 
but leaped to the production network. The attack reportedly 
resulted in the loss of shutdown control on one of the blast 
furnaces and physical damage to equipment.As experts in the cyber world race to keep up with the evolving 
nature of the attacks, hackers are constantly deploying 
new ways to infiltrate and cause harm or damage. Beyond 
implementing robust information technology (IT) practices 
to detect and ward off malicious software as well as recover 
from such attacks, it is also important to raise organizational 
awareness, identify vulnerabilities, and develop effective 
countermeasures by using all other available tools.
The PHA process lends itself well as an effective tool to support 
such efforts. By systematically evaluating the hazards associated 
with each section of the facility, the PHA team should already 
have a well-documented understanding of the type of 
consequences for various initiating events and the effectiveness 
of available safeguards. Historically, PHAs have been focused 
on preventing and mitigating consequences categorized 
usually in terms of safety, asset damage/business interruption, 
environment, and reputation. Cyberattacks have the potential 
to inflict any of such consequences, and traditional PHAs could 
be leveraged to help minimize them.
A traditional PHA team is comprised of representatives from 
different areas such as operations, engineering (different 
disciplines), and management who collectively review and 
discuss what could go wrong at a process plant and how to 
prevent the associated consequences. Equipped with the 
right mix of skillset among the PHA team members, the team 
should be able to recognize what types of initiating events 
are relevant to the undesirable consequences to be prevented 
and what safeguards would be considered effective. Using a 
typical nodal approach, the PHA team would evaluate each 
section of the plant systematically in this context and develop 
recommendations for improvement as needed.
Taking a step further, the PHA team could include an 
assessment of cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities, 
their potential consequences, and safeguards under 
consideration. With qualified Instrumentation and Control 
(I&C) and Information Technology (IT) subject matter experts 
participating in the PHAs, weak points in the control and 
communication systems that might be exploited by hackers to 
gain access and cause harm could be identified and eliminated. 
A couple of general approaches are presented below.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 4White Paper  l Cybersecurity Consideration in Process Hazard Analysis 
General Approach
There are two general methods to perform a PHA integrated 
cybersecurity assessment.
The first method is used to assess the basic process control 
system (BPCS) vulnerabilities as an independent node,  
such as by means of a Control Systems Hazard and  
Operability Study (CHAZOP) which could be extended to  
cover cybersecurity vulnerability.
This method controls the cyber risk through a process controls 
network (PCN). For example, instrumentation or process 
measurements that are attached to the Distributed Control 
System (DCS) may be vulnerable to an attack, such as the 
MITM type of attack as reportedly deployed with the Stuxnet 
virus. For critical applications, emergency shutdown systems 
involving dedicated sensors, logic solver, final control elements, 
and communication pathways that are independent of the 
BPCS might be warranted such as those typically implemented 
as part of a Safety Instrumented Function (SIF) or automated 
Emergency Shutdown (ESD) system.
•  The second method, based on an integrated cyber process 
hazard analysis, could also be used to assess the process 
system cyber vulnerabilities by integrating with a typical  
PHA and is applied to control the cyber risk by  
implementing non-hackable countermeasures.
The second method, integrated cyber process hazard analysis, 
will be described further in this paper. Adding cybersecurity 
analysis to a typical PHA requires a step-by-step systematic 
technique in the review of the cyberattack impacts and 
countermeasures. This approach could also be used as a 
“stand-alone” or back up to the first method. If the BPCS is 
compromised, applications that have been reviewed using the 
integrated cyber process hazard analysis method could lessen 
the overall risk impact. 
This method considers the initiating event and safeguards to 
determine if they can be hacked and if the consequence is 
ranked significant. If so, the Process Hazard Team could specify 
instrumentation plus other mechanisms required to mitigate 
similar gaps using devices that could not be hacked. Device 
and instrumentation such as pressure safety valve (PSV), 
level gauges, pressure and temperature indicators that are 
not integrated into the DCS system and Operations External 
Monitoring could provide useful back-ups in the event of 
cyberattacks.Table 1 shows an application of integrated cyber process 
hazard analysis. The initiating event is related to a pressure 
control valve located at the inlet of a pressure vessel and which 
could fail wide-open. Such failure would have been evaluated 
in a traditional PHA as possibly caused by a mechanical or 
electrical malfunction. However, one could also observe that 
the operation of this control valve could also be vulnerable to 
cyberattacks.
The Risk Ranking (RR) before safeguard consideration is an 
overall 6 based on the severity level of 3 and likelihood level 
of 2. Based on the risk matrix used for this example, a scenario 
with an RR of 6 can continue to operate only if safeguards are in 
place to prevent personnel injury.
One might be tempted to take credit for a local pressure 
indicator/ gauge as a safeguard (SG). While this indicator is not 
vulnerable to cyberattack, it would require timely and reliable 
human intervention to be considered effective. The PHA team 
concluded that such instrumentation even together with 
human intervention would not be considered an acceptable 
safeguard as the indicator is not continuously monitored. 
Similarly, a pressure transmitter and its associated high-pressure 
alarm PAH-002, even if independent of the process control 
loop for the PCV-001 and continuously monitored, would also 
not be reliable as the pressure signal could be vulnerable to 
manipulation during a cyberattack.
A recommendation was then developed to install an adequately 
sized PSV to be routed to a safe location. Note that this PSV 
would not be vulnerable to cyberattack as its opening behavior 
is dependent on the vessel operating pressure as well as on the 
closing force exerted by the spring of the PSV.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 5White Paper  l Cybersecurity Consideration in Process Hazard Analysis 
Cyber  
VulnerableMore FlowRecommendations
Initiating Event  
(I.E)Consequence Safeguards (SG) I.E. SG
Pressure Control  
Valve (PCV-001)  
at inlet of Vessel  
V-101 fails 
wide-open due 
to mechanical/
electrical 
malfunction or 
possibly due 
to cyberattack 
creating an 
erroneous signal 
to force the valve 
open.Potential 
overspressure 
Vessel V-101 
due to high 
upstream 
pressure 
source, 
resulting in 
release/spill 
and loss of 
downstream 
feedPressure 
indicator (P-001) 
with Operator 
interventionTeam concurred 
that P-001 or 
PAH-002 would 
not be considered 
an acceptable 
sageguard.
Therefore, the 
Team recommends 
installing an 
adequately sized 
PSV to be routed 
to a safe locationPAH-002(High 
Pressure Alarm) 
with Operator 
intervention3Y
YN
N26Risk
S LRR
Table 1: Example of cyber integrated PHA worksheet
While defending against all forms of cyber intrusion into 
the plant control system and operation is the ultimate goal, 
the integrated cyber PHA is also well-positioned to help 
plant personnel identify critical cyber vulnerabilities that 
could potentially expose the company to the most severe 
consequences with the associated risk that might fail to meet 
the company’s acceptance criteria and thus prioritize the 
allocation of scarce resources to enhance protection.
Safeguards
Performing an integrated cyber PHA requires one to control 
threats, vulnerabilities, and consequences. For a typical 
cyberattack to propagate from initiation to completion, it 
would typically require that both the initiating event and the 
safeguard(s) be hackable. By making at least one of these 
two non-hackable, the risk would substantially be reduced. By 
making both non-hackable, the risk would be eliminated. For 
example, can a USB port be used to compromise the system? 
Then the first order of controls is to deactivate the ports. This 
would eliminate a conduit whereby the virus could intentionally 
or inadvertently be introduced into the system. Table 2 is an 
example of a Cyber Vulnerability Matrix that can be used during 
an integrated cyber PHA to assess system cyber weaknesses.In terms of designing safeguards, there is a well-established 
concept called “defense-in-depth” which includes multiple 
independent layers of protection to protect against process 
hazards. In the context of cyberattacks, such layers might 
include but are not limited to company policies and operating 
procedures, personnel training, network compartmentation, 
access restriction, physical barriers, installing software patches 
for operating systems, running up-to-date antivirus software, 
and continuous system monitoring to detect and contain 
intrusion.
With regards to SIS, IEC 61511 (Functional Safety: Safety 
Instrumented Systems for the Process Industry Sector) 6 
has implemented a new clause, requiring that a security 
risk assessment shall be carried out to identify the security 
vulnerabilities of the SIS. The PHA team could also check if this 
is being implemented for installed SIS.
By understanding the different types of cyber threats that a 
process could be exposed to, one could then fully comprehend 
the in-place risks and develop effective mitigations to reduce or 
eliminate the risk. Staff training on cybersecurity awareness is 
essential to the understanding of cyber threats and safeguard 
against them. Integrated cyber PHA could be used to enhance 
both the awareness and readiness of plant personnel against 
cyber threats.
Table 3 contains examples of safeguards that would be resistant 
to cyberattacks for different scenarios. To the extent that one 
could rely on devices that operate independently of the control 
system, common-mode failure could be avoided. For example, 
a spring-operated PSV would relieve excess system pressure 
without relying on a signal from the DCS.Table 2: Cyber vulnerability matrixTable 3: Examples of cyber secure instrumentationCase 1 Case 2 Case 3 Case 4
Initiating Event Hackable
Available                    Safeguards  
Hackable
Likelihood of Consequence
Require Non-hackable  
Safeguard?N N
N
N/A Unlikely Unlikely
Decided based on 
risk toleranceLikely
Likely N NNY Y
Y YOverpressure due to  
bloked outlet
BPCS failure
Rotating equipmet  
failure
Reverse Flow due to 
Pump or Compressor 
Failure
Critical (Shutdown) 
Valves
Area H2S Monitor 
Failure
Level Alarm or 
Transmitter FailurePressure Safety  
Valve (PSV)
1. Safety Instrument System  
2. Analog Back-up
Mechanical Overspeed Control/
Trip
Non-return Check Valve
Back-up Hand Valve
Back-up Personal Monitors
Level Gauge on Tank  
or VesselEnsure appropriate desing and sising 
of PSV
Ensure SIS is independent of the BPCS.
Routine maintenance
Routine maintenance
Routine maintenance
Routine maintenance
Routine maintenance and Operator 
roundsScenario Cyber Secure Instrumentation Cautionary Remarks
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 6White Paper  l Cybersecurity Consideration in Process Hazard Analysis 
Conclusion References
Ultimately, the integrated cyber PHA results could help 
determine what countermeasures would be needed to lessen 
the cyberattack risks. In addition, the PHA along with a Layer of 
Protection Analysis (LOPA) could help with prioritizing resources 
for implementing required countermeasures. If the risk for 
a particular cyberattack is not considered significant, then it 
could be protected by using standard safeguards. However, 
if a scenario has significant consequences or risks and all 
safeguards could be compromised, the application would likely 
need at least one cyberattack resistant safeguard. Since the 
timing or type of a cyberattack cannot be fully predicted, the 
integrated cyber PHA could serve as a useful tool to reduce the 
overall risk profile of a process plant against such attacks.1.  Fernandez, I. (2013) “Cybersecurity for Industrial Automation 
& Control Environments, Protection and Prevention Strategies 
in the Face of Growing Threats”
2.  Sullivan, M. ”8 Types of Cyber Attacks Your Business Needs to 
Avoid”, quickbooks.intuit.com
3.  ISA/IEC 62443-3-2 standard (Security Risk Assessment and 
System Design)
4.  Kushner, D. (2013) “The Real Story of Stuxnet”, spectrum.
ieee.org
5.  Zetter, K. (2015) “A Cyberattack Has Caused Confirmed 
Physical Damage for the Second Time Ever,” www.wired.com
6.  IEC 61511 (Functional Safety: Safety Instrumented Systems 
for the Process Industry Sector)
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 7White Paper  l Cybersecurity Consideration in Process Hazard Analysis 
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Industrial Applications  
Freyeslebenstraße 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Industrial Applications  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826USA  
USA
Article No.   
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only 
contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the 
course of further development of the products. The requested performance 
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third 
parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.