Integrity Operating Windows (IOW)
Process Industry has a long history of standards and best 
practices that have recommended identifying damage 
mechanisms affecting operating assets. Through this 
identification process, owner operators have been able 
to target appropriate areas for inspection using the right 
techniques while prioritizing by risk using methods such 
as Risk-Based Inspection (RBI) and Reliability Centered 
Maintenance (RCM).
Complimenting such methods, Integrity Operating Windows 
(IOW) provide insight and proactive identification on ways 
operators can control the degradation of their assets to 
predictable and reasonably low susceptibilities. IOW allow 
plant operators to understand the parameters driving the 
damage mechanisms affecting the integrity of their assets, 
and through proper monitoring and alerts, take appropriate 
actions within a specified time frame to return operations to 
safe limits.
Key benefits of IOW include
•  Monitor and control critical parameters driving damage  
on assets.
• Reduce downtime due to failures.
• Track exceedances and follow up activities.
•  Optimized inspection, testing, and preventive  
maintenance costs.PS Asset Integrity Manager IOW Module
PS Asset Integrity Manager IOW Module is an integrated set 
of functionalities of PS Asset Integrity Manager that leverages 
existing asset hierarchies and master data. It features 
capabilities to import PS Asset Integrity Manager RBI results as 
a starting point or begin from scratch as needed. The PS Asset 
Integrity Manager IOW Module enables the methods and 
procedures of establishing and managing IOW’s according to 
API Recommended Practice (RP) 584.
PS Asset Integrity Manager IOW Module Key Features
• IOW approach in accordance with API RP 584
• Define damage mechanisms on the asset component level.
• Import pre-defined damage mechanisms from RBI method.
•  Selection of operating parameters and associated operating 
limits for each IOW.
•  Indication of predetermined actions by responsible 
personnel when exceedances occur and configurable auto-
generated activities.
• Visualization of IOW status as asset health indicator
• Role-based IOW actions management.
• Dashboards and reports for key IOW KPIs.
siemens-energy.comIOW Module
PS Asset Integrity  
Manager
Published by
Siemens Energy  
Electrification, Automation, Digitalization (EAD)  
Process & Safety Consulting  
USA Headquarters
1200 W Sam Houston Pkwy North  
Houston, TX 77043, USAAsia Pacific: Singapore  
Canada  
Europe: Belgium and Romania  
Middle East: KSA and UAE
info.ogconsulting.energy@siemens-energy.com
Siemens Energy Customer Software Support Portal
cep.siemens-energy.com
PS Asset Integrity Manager is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH & Co. KG or its affiliates registered in one 
or more countries.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested performance 
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract .
© 2024 Siemens Energy