gastechevent.com energyconnects.com32
GASTECH SHOW DAILIES
Official Media PartnerEXHIBITOR: Siemens Energy STAND: D680
How to make FLNG and Mid-Scale 
LNG projects more proﬁ  table and 
reliable — with less risk
What trends are shaping the 
world’s LNG industry today, in 
general, and compression, in 
particular?
Rising gas demand and falling 
domestic gas production in Asia 
have opened the door for new LNG 
projects worldwide. We’re seeing 
new LNG projects happening in 
various countries, such as Argentina 
and African nations that have large 
gas reserves but have been unable 
to capitalize on them so far. 
To maximize equity returns and 
greatly reduce the risks posed by 
a lack of locally skilled site labor, 
limited land space, and regulatory 
compliance, companies are turning 
more to Floating LNG (FLNG) 
and modularized Mid-Scale LNG 
production models than traditional 
onshore large-scale, stick-built 
models.
These projects are typically 
designed to produce 3.5-4.5 
MMTPA of LNG. And since most of 
their fabrication is done in shipyards, 
site risks for onshore assembly and 
fabrication are minimized. 
So, how do Siemens Energy 
solutions make FLNG and 
Mid-scale LNG projects more 
p r o ﬁ t a b l e ?
With today’s CAPEX pressures, 
LNG project developers are 
looking to utilize a simpliﬁ  ed LNG 
process solution using single mixed 
refrigerant (SMR) and operating at 
the maximum possible capacity to 
reduce their production cost per ton 
of LNG. However, that production 
capacity can be limited by factors 
such as the gas turbine power, 
compressor efﬁ  ciency, and heat exchanger capacity. 
Siemens Energy has worked closely 
with its clients to develop a solution 
to address the above limitations 
and recommends running two 
parallel compression trains using 
our lightweight SGT-750 gas turbine 
and high efﬁ  ciency compressors in 
a single SMR LNG train. With total 
84 MW power, this conﬁ  guration 
allows one SMR LNG train to 
produce 1.8–2.2 MMTPA of LNG, 
thereby fully utilizing the largest 
available heat exchanger capacity. 
Deploying two such SMR trains on 
a FLNG vessel provides the LNG 
project investors with the best 
potential returns possible.
With lost LNG production 
so costly, what about the 
reliability and downtime of this 
solution?
A Siemens Energy SGT-750 gas 
turbine is ultra-reliable, consistently achieving 99+% uptime across its 
installed ﬂ  eet. Its mean time between 
overhauls (MTBO) typically exceeds 
four years — more than industry 
standards — making it the most 
reliable solution with minimum 
downtime. 
With two SGT-750 compression 
trains operating in parallel, even 
if a unit goes down due to an 
unscheduled event, the other unit 
keeps the refrigeration system 
operating and enables the LNG 
plant to ramp up to full production 
immediately after the ﬁ  rst unit is back 
online. Further, the high starting 
torque capability of SGT-750 enables 
producers to start from shutdown 
within minutes, preventing the loss of 
valuable refrigerant. 
How does this solution help 
with energy transition and 
environmental goals?
The Siemens Energy SGT-750 gas turbine is the most environmentally 
friendly unit in its class. It comes 
with a guaranteed single-digit 
NOx emission proﬁ  le across a 
wide operating range. In addition, 
seasonal mapping is not required 
to maintain its low emission 
performance, unlike other turbine 
manufacturers.
What about maintenance and 
serviceability?
Our lightweight SGT-750 is the 
industry’s most maintenance-
friendly industrial gas turbine. The 
core engine can be exchanged with 
a replacement within 24 hours. 
What’s more, the original engine 
can be overhauled in-situ or in-
country without a need to send 
back to the factory. This feature 
saves our customers the signiﬁ  cant 
cost, downtime, and administrative 
burden that are due to international 
shipping with associated customs 
issues and delays. At the same 
time, it also helps create local 
jobs, making a direct impact on a 
country’s economy.
In addition, with our compressor 
operating at 6100 rpm, the bundle 
maintenance weight of our solution 
is less than 35 tons. That is less than 
half the weight of our competitors’ 
solutions, which typically weigh 80-
100 tons. This eliminates the need 
for a massive crane for maintenance, 
reduces CAPEX, and improves 
safety aspects. 
Finally, the entire turbo-compression 
package operates on one common 
oil system, eliminating the need for 
separate oil systems, additional 
components, and reducing 
maintenance and CAPEX. 
Sanjeev Daruka, Head of Global LNG, Siemens EnergySanjeev Daruka, Head of Global LNG, Siemens Energy, with engineering roots and more than 30 years in the world’s 
energy industry, sees tremendous opportunities to improve LNG process design and gas turbine-driven refrigeration 
compression trains that can support today’s dynamic energy transition with an equal emphasis on proﬁ  tability and local 
job creation. 
In an exclusive interview with Gastech News, he explains why. 