Siemens AG  Press Release  
 
Siemens AG  
Communications  
Head: Clarissa Haller  
 Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Reference number:  PR2019010121PGEN  
 Page 1/3  
Press   
 Houston , January 10, 2019  
Encana selects Siemens to provide rotating 
equipment for Pipestone Processing Facility  
 
• First North American gas processing plant application for Siemens 
SGT-750 turbine  
 
Siemens was recently selected to provide one feed and sales gas train and one 
refrigeration compression train for Encana’s Pipestone Processing Facility in Grand 
Prairie, Alberta, Canada. Designed to accommodate future capacity expansion, the 
Pipestone Processing Facility will provide Encana with 19,000 barrels per day of net 
raw condensate processing capacity plus 170 million cubic feet per day of net inlet 
natural gas processing capacity.  Keyera will own the Pipestone Processing Facility 
and provide processing services to Encana. The Facility will have total processing 
capacity of 200 million cubic feet per day and is expected to start up in 2021.  
 
The first train will consist of a Siemens  SGT-750 gas turbine driving two Dresser -
Rand DATUM compressors for feed and sales gas compression, combined with a 
Siemens waste heat recovery unit for process heat. The second train will consist of 
a Siemens electric motor -driven DATUM compressor for ref rigeration compression 
with Siemens variable frequency drive.   
 
“Siemens state -of-the-art SGT -750 gas turbine is the only twin -shaft engine in its 
power class with industry -leading fuel efficiency and one of the lowest emission 
profiles,” said Patrice Lap orte, Vice President, Oil & Gas for Siemens America. “The 
train configuration achieved by coupling the SGT -750 with the highly efficient 
DATUM compressors provides an excellent solution for the Encana’s Pipestone gas 
compression service.”  

Siemens AG  Press Release  
 
Siemens AG  
Communications  
Head: Clarissa Haller  
 Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Reference number:  PR2019010121PGEN  
 Page 2/3  
The SGT -750 turb ine has a proven track record of satisfied customers in both power 
generation and mechanical drive applications and is becoming an increasingly 
popular choice among facility operators. In 2015, Siemens supplied three pipeline 
compressor trains driven by SG T-750 gas turbines to Central America -based 
Fermaca for its El Encino – La Laguna pipeline project. In 2017, China’s largest 
acrylic producer, Zhejiang Satellite Energy Co., selected Siemens to provide an 
SGT-750 gas turbine to drive two Siemens STC -SH sin gle-shaft compressors for 
Phase II of its propylene dehydration plant.  
 
“We’re providing all of the equipment for these two compression trains from one 
source, which lends testament to Encana’s ongoing confidence in our equipment 
and Siemens’ capability t o offer a one -stop solution to our customers,” said Matthew 
Chinn, Executive Vice President New Equipment Solutions for Siemens Oil and 
Gas. “Further to this, our solution is less capital intensive, due to the excellent 
attributes of the SGT -750 turbine’s lower life cycle costs compared to competing 
turbines in the industry.”  
 
With maximized uptime and a low environmental emission footprint, the SGT -750 
offers customers a lightweight industrial gas turbine designed and developed to 
incorporate the size and weight advantages of an aeroderivative gas turbine while 
maintaining the robustness, flexibility, and longevity of traditional heavy -duty 
industrial gas turbines.  
 
The DATUM compressor line is known for its efficiency, reliability, and ease of 
maintenance which makes these compressors ideally suited for the un -spared feed / 
sales gas and refrigeration compression applications. In 2015, Encana purchased 
10 DATUM compression trains for its Cutbank Ridge Program, designed for the 
long-term development of natur al gas resources in Northeast British Columbia.  
 
Siemens AG  Press Release  
 
Siemens AG  
Communications  
Head: Clarissa Haller  
 Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Reference number:  PR2019010121PGEN  
 Page 3/3  
Above:  Siemens’ SGT -750 turbine offers customers lower life cycle costs compared 
to competing turbines in the industry.  
 
This press release and press picture are available at 
www.siemens.com/press/ PR2019010121PGE N 
 
For further information on the SGT-750 gas turbine,  please  see 
https://sie.ag/2ORY764  
 
For further information on  the DATUM compressors,  please  see 
http://bit.ly/2Ms5zbz  
 
Contact for journalists  
Janet Ofano  
Tel: +1 803 -389-6753; Email: janet.ofano@siemens.com   
 
Follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/siemens_press  and @Siemens_Energy  
 
Siemens AG  (Berlin and Munich) is a global technology powerhouse that has stood for engineering excellence, 
innovation, quality, reliability and internationality for more than 170  years. The company is active around the globe, 
focusing on the areas of electrificatio n, automation and digitalization. One of the largest producers of energy -
efficient, resource -saving technologies, Siemens is a leading supplier of efficient power generation and power 
transmission solutions and a pioneer in infrastructure solutions as well  as automation, drive and software solutions 
for industry. With its publicly listed subsidiary Siemens Healthineers AG, the company is also a leading provider of 
medical imaging equipment – such as computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging systems  – and a 
leader in laboratory diagnostics as well as clinical IT. In fiscal 2018, which ended on September  30, 2018, Siemens 
generated revenue of €83.0  billion and net income of €6.1  billion. At the end of September 2018, the company had 
around 379,000 emp loyees worldwide. Further information is available on the Internet at www.siemens.com . 
