Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Berlin , August 23, 2022  
Siemens Energy and Duke Energy’s gas power plant 
achieve s GUINNESS WORLD  RECORDS™  title 
• Siemens Energy and Duke Energy have achieved the GUINNESS WORLD RECORDS title for the "most 
powerful simple cycle gas power plant"  
• Siemens Energy's SGT6 -9000HL turbine at Duke Energy ’s Lincoln Combustion Turbine Station in North 
Carolina achieve d an output of 410.9 megawatts  
• Highly efficient and flexible gas turbine technology supports the expanding use of renewables  
 
Duke Energy’s Lincoln Combustion Turbine Station, powered by Siemens Energy’s SGT6 -9000HL (60-Hz) 
turbine, has been certified with the official  GUINNESS  WORLD  RECORDS  title for the “most powerful simple -
cycle gas power plant” with an output of 410.9 megawatts.  
 
As part of an innovative agreement, Siemens Energy installed and is currently testing its SGT6 -9000HL 
turbine at Duke Energy’s Li ncoln Combustion Turbine Station, about 25 miles north of Charlotte, NC. The 
new unit can generate enough energy to power more than 300,000 homes.  
 
Siemens Energy’s SGT6 -9000HL is designed to run longer between maintenance cycles and will be the most 
efficient of its type in Duke Energy’s fleet (about 34  percent  more efficient than the existing combustion 
turbines at the Lincoln site).  
 
“Power output, efficiency and operational flexibility are crucial elements in the decarbonization of the 
energy secto r,” says Karim Amin, Executive Board Member at Siemens Energy. “This G UINNESS WORLD  
RECORDS  title demonstrates our capability as a technology leader working together with Duke Energy to 
accelerate the path towards net -zero emissions.”  
 
“Duke Energy is pursu ing an aggressive clean energy transition, already achieving more than 40  percent  
carbon reduction since 2005,” said Kevin Murray, Vice President of Project Management & Construction at 
Duke Energy. “The new gas turbine at our Lincoln site will become the most fuel -efficient gas turbine in our 
fleet. The unit’s fast start and high ramp rate capability will support the increase in renewables we are Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
placing on our system while complementing our journey to net -zero carbon from electricity generation by 
2050.”  
 
The power output of the unit is complemented by its agility. When renewables like solar or wind fluctuate, 
power from the HL -class turbine can quickly be added to the grid to meet market demands and help 
stabilize the power supply. The equipment that achi eved the G UINNESS  WORLD  RECORDS  title was 
delivered to the Lincoln site in November of 2019 and was started for the first time in April 2020. It ’s the 
first 60 -Hz HL -class turbine from Siemens Energy.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Sabine Sill  
Phone:  +49 173 719 6783  
E-mail:  sabine.sill@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and further material is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press  
For more  information on our HL class turbines , please see SGT6 -9000HL  
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and  partners on 
energy  systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions  
and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The  
portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated  
with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A 
majo rity stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for 
renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. 
Siemens Energy employs around 91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €28.5  billion in 
fiscal year 2021. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 