Lorem ipsum l  
 
Author s 
Eberhard Wittchow  
Martin Effert  
  
siemens -energy.com /powergeneration  History of the  
Benson license  
1925 – 2018  

21. Introduction
On 1925-08-15, Siemens-Schuckertwerke AG (Siemens)
concludes a license agreement with "Internationale Benson
Patentverwertungs AG," of which Siemens and Benson
Super Power Corporation each hold half the shares. Based
on this, Siemens receives the exclusive license to the
Benson patents, with the right to issue sublicenses. This
contract marks the start of the success story of the Benson
boiler license (Benson license), the license with the longest
lifetime within Siemens.
Before concluding this agreement, Siemens becomes
convinced of the feasibility of Benson's invention in the
English test facility in Rugby. Siemens first secures the
possibility of using the patents of Mark Benson in
preliminary agreements - the first dated 1923-10-11.
Siemens' special contribution is the introduction of high-
pressure technology to power plant construction with the
Benson boiler, thus establishing the basis for cost-effective
and flexible plants. The process developed by Siemens
based on the Benson patent, known around the world as
the Benson principle, has ultimately thwarted all attempts
by boiler manufacturers to find an alternative solution.
Currently, all manufacturers of once-through boilers use the
Benson principle.
Over the lifetime of the Benson license spanning over 90
years, more than 1,360 fired Benson boilers have been
constructed, with a cumulative capacity of 417,852 kg/s(1,504,265 t/h). The term of the current Benson license
agreements for fossil-fired Benson boilers extends in part up
to 2030.
This is supplemented by a total of more than 100 Benson
heat recovery steam generators that have been ordered up
to 2018 and the majority of which have also already been
commissioned. The term for the current Benson license
agreements for Benson heat recovery steam generators
extends up to 2023.
2. Mark Benson and his patent
Mark Benson is born in 1890 in Schluchengau/Sudetenland
as the illegitimate son of a Habsburg under his mother's
maiden name of Müller. He studies chemistry and physics
and finds himself in London on the outbreak of the First
World War. To evade internment, he takes on the name of
Mark Benson, immigrates to the USA and obtains American
citizenship.
He is active in the chemical industry in the USA and files
numerous patent applications. Through his activity in the
American petroleum industry, Benson comes to address the
topic of steam generation. Petroleum processing entails
endothermic processes, and the necessary heat is supplied
by low-pressure steam at temperatures of over 500 °C.
Benson also travels to England for several years, where he is
to establish a new oil processing plant in southern Wales for
the Anglo-Persian Oil Company.
Damage in the evaporators of water-tube boilers, which
Benson traces to evaporation phenomena, lead him to the
Iskenderun Power Plant – T urkey
Commissioned 2003
Installed capacity 1.320 MW
3idea of designing a once-through boiler in which the water
is directly converted to dry steam. This is known to be the
case at the critical pressure of 221 bar and above. Benson
assumes that water and steam separate during the
evaporation process and that the different physical
properties of the two phases result in negative effects such
as overheating of the tube walls, disturbances in
equilibrium, hammer etc. This is the basic concept behind
his invention.
Another version of Benson's invention is also portrayed in
the literature (source unknown). The oil processing system
requires steam at a temperature of over 500 °C, which can
only be provided at the pressures of 7 to 8.5 atm(g) typical
for that time. This requires highly expensive boilers. This
induces Benson to search for more cost-effective ways of
generating steam. He therefore first studies the
thermodynamics of the steam process from the stand-point
of "irreversibility."  In Benson's opinion, the greatest
irreversibility apart from condenser loss lies in the heat of
vaporization. This, Benson believes, is the cause of the poor
efficiency on the order of 12% in power plants. He therefore
decides to generate the steam at the state where there is no
longer any heat of vaporization, i.e. at the critical state.
Benson submits his idea in a patent application; the first
claim of which entails:
"[…]a method for generating usable process steam at any
pressure from resources ... characterized by the fact that the
pressure is regulated by special pressure generating devices
in the first stage in which the resource is converted to vapor
and by pressure-reducing devices in the subsequent stages
such [...] that in each stage the separation of liquid and
vapor is prevented“
A patent application in the USA fails. Application in England
and Germany proves to be more fruitful. On 1922-07-18,
the German Imperial Patent Office awards him patent No.
419766 for a "Process for generating usable process steam
at any pressure."
In 1921, Benson sets about to construct a test plant to prove
his theory. He forms a small company in London, the
Benson Engineering Co., and he manages to garner the
interest of the English Electric & Co. for his idea, which
begins constructing the first test plant in Rugby for an
output of 1000 kW.
While the test plant is under construction in Rugby, Benson
publishes the theory of steam generation at the critical
state in the American Journal Power Magazine through
Philipp Swain, with the associated entropy diagrams and a
description of the test plant in Rugby. The article is also
published in the German VDI Zeitschrift. Based on these
publications, the Benson Engineering Co. receives inquiries
from Skoda Works, John Cockerill SA in Belgium, Siemens
and other companies.
Siemens contacts Mark Benson and concludes a contract
with him on 1923-10-11 that is intended to grant Siemens
the option of using the Benson patents (see Section 4).
Prerequisite for this is that the Rugby plant meets
expectations.After conclusion of the contract, the plant in Rugby (with a
steam output of 1 kg/s, evaporator operated at supercritical
pressure, superheater outlet condition 103 bar/420 °C) is
completed and is taken over by Siemens. However, it does
not operate reliably and fails frequently due to faults in the
pressure control valve, the gaskets and the feedwater pump.
As all tests for the first trial of the process are completed in
1925, the plant in Rugby is shut down and is only visited
very rarely by Siemens employees until it is to be
disassembled in the mid-30s.
Developments soon depart from Benson's original concept.
A test boiler constructed in 1927 is first operated at
subcritical parameters with a fully opened throttle valve in
1929. The second Benson boiler is operated without a
pressure control valve in the Berlin cable works starting
from 1930, at pressures of between 40 and 180 bar
depending on the load. This is the birth of the principle of
the modern sliding-pressure once-through boiler, which has
gone down in power plant technology as the Benson
principle. The original patent is no longer used, but the
name "Benson boiler" is retained.
When Mark Benson is awarded a patent in 1922 for a
"process for generating usable process steam at any
pressure," he has no idea that his name will one day be
associated with the most widely constructed once-through
boiler in the world. This is especially remarkable since his
invention proved to be worthless only a few years after the
patent was awarded.
Based on statements from friends of Benson still living in
the 1980s, he is an extremely intelligent man with a great
character, although he can turn into a formidable binge
drinker at times. After the Second World War, he remains in
contact with Siemens, and maintains contact with his
German friends until his death. In the meantime, he marries
a movie star in Hollywood and, after a life of luxury, dies in
1959 as a destitute man who is finally forced to rely on
welfare.
3. Siemens and Mark Benson's patent
Up to this point, Siemens has constructed only its own
generators and switchgear for its Central Department (AZ).
Karl Köttgen, chairman of the board of Siemens at the time,
plans to have all of the main parts of a steam power plant
(steam turbines, generators, boilers, transformers,
switchgear, instrumentation and control, structures, power
distribution systems) constructed in its own plants in the
future. He begins negotiations with Thyssen for purchase of
the Mülheim turbine manufacturing plant in Wiesenstraße,
which Siemens acquires in 1927 for 12,000,000.00
Reichsmark. This plant constructs steam turbines for power
plants and industrial plants based on the system of Prof.
Röder. These are first characterized by reaction blading and
the construction of large rotors with wheel disks bolted to
the shaft and hollow drum rotors.
In the first twenty years of the last century, the state of the
art in the field of boilers is characterized by small natural
circulation boilers with steam outputs of 20 t/h, steam
pressures of 15 bar and stoker firing systems, when, in
1911, Wilhelm Schmidt in Aschersleben constructs a highly-
noted "high-pressure boiler" with an output of 7 t/h and for
4HP steam conditions of 60 atm(g)/490 °C. The elevated HP
steam level in this plant enables the heat rate of approx.
25,150 kJ/kWh common up to that time to be reduced to
16,370 kJ/kWh, a sensation for the time.
This induces development to focus increasingly on "ultra
high-pressure steam", which, in the terminology of the day,
corresponded to a steam pressure of over 30 bar. However,
this development is brought to an abrupt halt by the
outbreak of World War I. At the same time, the quality of
boiler steel goes down due to the lack of alloy materials for
steel manufacturing as a result of the war, and there is a
dramatic increase in boiler damage and boiler explosions,
especially due to embrittlement of the material and
intergranular cracks, but also to the riveted drums. The high
point of this series of boiler damage is the catastrophic
boiler explosion in the Reisholz power plant on March 9,
1920. However, poor heat transfer in steam/water mixtures
is suspected to be the cause of the many cases of damage.
With this background, the interest of Hans Gleichmann,
Head of Steam Department AZ 7, is aroused by articles in
Power Magazine and the VDI Zeitschrift in 1923 regarding
Mark Benson's patent and the construction of a test plant in
Rugby, England. Gleichmann recognizes the large
development potential of this concept, also with regard to
potential efficiency increases in the steam power process.
In this situation - expansion of the Siemens product
spectrum to include all power plant components and the
propagation of a completely new boiler technology by Mark
Benson - Siemens believes it can exploit the Benson patent
to place itself at the forefront of steam technology, as this
boiler type is suitable for ultra-high pressures and
temperatures and a higher thermodynamic efficiency of the
steam process can therefore be achieved. Further
advantages are promised by an inexpensive and space-
saving design through the use of small-bore tubes with
faster startup, high load change rates and explosion
protection.
Following visits by Szilagi, the Siemens representative in
London, Benson is invited to visit Siemens in Berlin. After
ten days of negotiation, a contract is concluded between
him and Siemens on October 11, 1923 that gives Siemens
the opportunity to use the Benson patents worldwide (see
Section 4).
Chairman of the board Karl Köttgen and Central department
manager Hans Gleichmann visit the Rugby plant for the first
tests in 1924. Despite the low steam output of 4.5 t/h from
the small test boiler, the simply constructed Laval turbine
can be started with steam at 108 atm/400 °C and a
backpressure of 14 atm. The turbine and throttle tests
reveal that the steam from the boiler was completely free
from water.
On 1925-08-15, Siemens concludes a license agreement
with Internationale Benson-Patentverwertungs AG giving
Siemens the exclusive license to the Benson patents with
the right to issue sublicenses.
In order to quickly achieve practical results, Siemens decides
to construct a test plant in the Siemens Berlin-Nonnendam
power plant in 1925. An existing 10 t/h inclined-tube boilerfrom 1903 is modified and is used as Siemens' own first
Benson test boiler for fundamental investigations
(operation from August 1925).
In the meantime, Siemens has established an office for
developing the Benson boiler, subordinate to director
Tonnemacher. Hans Gleichmann assumes technical
management. He also assumes responsibility for promoting
the interest of the professional technical world in the
Benson boiler with many publications. The development
work is performed especially by Martin Eule (engineering)
and Heinz Rabe (calculation).
4. Mark Benson's Benson Super Power Corporation
It must first be noted that Siemens did not purchase the
Benson patent, but rather only acquired the rights of use of
the patent. The corresponding agreements commence on
1923-10-11 with the agreement between Siemens and
Mark Benson to form a patent exploitation company and
end on 1966-03-10 with the liquidation of the Benson
Super Power Corporation founded by Mark Benson [61].
Mark Benson founded the "Benson Super Power
Corporation" (BSPC below) in the State of Delaware, USA in
1922 to evaluate his inventions. Shares are initially
$10,000,000, combined to $500,000 in 1940. Siemens is
the sole contractual partner.
Negotiations between Siemens and Benson result in the
first contract on October 11, 1923. It is agreed in this
contract to transfer Benson's previous and future inventions
and patents to a newly founded exploitation company that
is to exploit the patents by granting licenses. However, the
original Benson boiler is not defined here as a once-through
boiler with a pressure control valve. This oversight is later to
prove extremely expensive for Siemens.
The "Internationale Benson Patentverwertungs AG" (IB) is
then founded in Zurich in 1924, with Siemens and BSPC
each holding half the shares. Business management of IB is
transferred to Siemens. On 1925-08-15, Siemens concludes
a license contract with IB that grants Siemens the exclusive
license to the Benson patents with the right to issue
sublicenses. Siemens pays approx. 200,000 Gold Marks to
BSPC for this. Siemens is also obligated to provide all results
and intellectual property rights from further technical
development of the Benson boiler.
In a special agreement that will significantly influence
Siemens' later strategy, it is specified that the development
costs incurred by Siemens will be charged to IB. By 1933,
license revenues in the amount of approx. SFR 250,000 are
offset by development costs in the amount of SFR
3,750,000. Siemens alone bears additional costs in the
amount of approx. DM 3,500,000, incurred primarily for the
Benson boiler test rig.
In the meantime, it is determined that a Benson boiler can
also be operated at subcritical pressure. The Benson patent
becomes less important. Siemens files for patents for
subcritical once-through boilers. Based on this new
development, Siemens considers exiting from IB. However,
a corresponding decision is not taken, first because of the
technical and legal difficulty of drawing the boundary
between supercritical and subcritical Benson boilers as well
5as because the aforementioned development costs in the
amount of SFR 3,750,000 would no longer be assumed by
IB. Negotiations between Siemens and BSPC are concluded
with a new contract dated 1933-03-29, that replaces the
contract of 1923-10-11. Siemens now also contributes the
development results for subcritical Benson boilers to IB and,
after the Siemens prepayment is covered (SFR 3,750,000),
the license profits are split 50:50 for supercritical plants and
85:15 (Siemens: BSPC) for subcritical plants. This agreement
is to remain in force for as long as the patent rights;
Siemens can only exit the contract by exiting IB.
Taxation and currency transfer issues result in a new
contract on 1937-10-21 that provides for the dissolution of
IB and a direct contractual relationship between Siemens
and BSPC. It is agreed that Siemens will continue to conduct
the Benson business as a trustee for both parties, the
Siemens prepayments from previous years are fixed at
2,500,000 Reichsmark, Swiss law will apply and the
contract will remain in force for as long as license fees are
received.
In connection with the end of the Second World War, the
London agreement dated 1946-07-27 on the handling of
German patents specifies the confiscation of industrial
property rights (patents, trademarks, brands). This also
renders the Benson patents worthless. Unfortunately the
Siemens Patent and License department neglected to
terminate the contract with BSPC in this situation.
Until 1951-09-30, the Siemens prepayments in the amount
of 2,500,000 Reichsmark were covered by royalties.
In correspondence dated 1955-03-01, Siemens attempts to
terminate the contract with BSPC, as BSPC has made no
further contribution beyond the provision of the Benson
patents in 1923 and the patents had expired in 1940. This
action resurrects BSPC, which had already been deleted
from the US commercial registry. Its new chairman Wayne
McAllister explains that the newer Benson boilers are all
operated under supercritical conditions at full load and are
therefore subject to licensing, and demands 15% of license
profits. BSPC insists upon continuation of the contract and
in 1960 requests court of arbitration proceedings in the
Chamber of Industry and Commerce for invoicing and
payment, to be conducted in Switzerland and in Rome. As it
becomes evident that the arbiters are disinclined to follow
Siemens' arguments, a settlement is concluded on 1962-05-
24, as a result of which the contract of 1937-10-21 is
continued. However, it is agreed to continue discussions
with the objective of amending or terminating the contract
from 1937.
In July 1963, meetings are conducted with Wayne McAllister
in Erlangen over several days for amendment or termination
of the contract. The Siemens recommendations for a
scheduled termination of the contract or for a capital
settlement are rejected. However, further meetings are
conducted in 1964 to discuss a capital settlement. The
starting point is a request from Wayne McAllister in the
amount of DM 10,694,000 and an offer of DM 4,000,000
from Siemens. The negotiators are unable to come to an
agreement.Not until the meeting on 1965-09-14 to 1965-09-15 are
two alternative proposals agreed upon:
First proposal: Siemens pays BSPC $400,000 as
compensation for all claims accrued to the end of the
1964/65 fiscal year. A Swiss company assumes the contract
from BSPC (with all future rights) for the payment of
$1,150,000.
Second proposal: Wayne McAllister returns to the earlier
proposal of selling back the BSPC shares at a price of $30.00
per share, but with the requirement that the sale be made
not to Siemens but to a Swiss company.
The first Proposal  is favored internally by Siemens. In the
BSPC shareholder meeting on 1966-02-15, the shareholders
vote for proposal 1 and the associated liquidation of the
company. The contracts are handed over in New York on
1966-03-10 and the agreed sum in the amount of DM
6,510,000 is paid. On request by BSPC, the contract is first
transferred for tax reasons to Swiss company Lothar AG,
where liquidation then proceeds.
All contractual conditions dating back to the first contract
with Mark Benson on 1923-10-11 are thus ended on 1966-
03-10.
5. Siemens as a boiler manufacturer - a chronology
1925-08-15 Acquisition of worldwide utilization rights to
the Benson patent by Siemens.
1925: Siemens' own first Benson boiler is constructed in the
Siemens cogeneration power plant in Berlin-Nonnendamm
by the modification of an existing 10 t/h inclined-tube boiler
from 1903 and is used for fundamental investigations. The
existing 13 atm boiler is raised and the piping packages for
the Benson system are installed underneath. The existing
boiler only serves as a flue gas heated feedwater preheater
that heats the feedwater from 20 °C to 180°C. The
feedwater is routed to the radiation evaporator and exits it
as steam at approx. 225 bar/370 °C, is superheated to
400 °C and is then throttled to the operating pressure of
150 bar and again heated to 410 °C. It is supplied to a high-
pressure turbine in this condition. With this plant (in
operation since August 1925), Siemens also begins the
development of pressure control valves, controllers
("indicator controllers") and startup valves (bypass to
condenser). The test results are not yet convincing, as tube
breaks are continually occurring at the end of the
evaporator after a few days of operation. Improvements are
achieved with blowdown valves in the individual parallel
trains. However, this plant has proved itself in principle in
operation with well-treated feedwater. This 10 t/h boiler
remains in operation until 1928, when it is disassembled,
delivered in a modified condition to Bitterfeld (Elektro-Süd
power plant of IG Farbenindustrie AG) and is further
operated until 1930.
1926: A first commercial Benson boiler with a steam output
of 30 t/h and superheater outlet conditions of
182 bar/420 °C to 450 °C and reheat is planned for the
Siemens cable plant in Berlin-Gartenfeld. This decision
shows great courage, as this plant is to be constructed as a
tower boiler for outdoor installation with pulverized coal
6firing. The boiler goes into operation in the fall of 1927 and
has the following features:
- Cylindrical furnace to ensure uniform heat transfer by
radiation.
- Cooled furnace walls with vertical tubing (16 parallel
trains, medium flows upwards and downwards through
16 tubes each in sequence).
- Most uniform possible flow resistance in all trains.
- Pulverized coal firing with top-mounted burners and
oil-fired ignition burners.
Tube breaks occur in the area of the flame cone; these are
not limited to the end section of the evaporator. The
opinion takes hold that the excessive salt content in the
feedwater is the primary cause for the tube damage and an
evaporator unit is constructed for the feedwater. The
important result is also arrived at here that in the future, the
so-called evaporation end zone must be configured in a flue
gas area with moderate heating (transition section). A
further cause is the lack of venting in the vertical furnace
tubes connected in series. In a modification in 1929, the
reheater is removed and the vertical tubing in the furnace is
replaced by spiral tubing, which enables reliable venting
and hence flow through the evaporator tubes. The boiler is
also modified for sliding pressure operation. The boiler is
finally dismantled in 1940 and is replaced with a new 50 t/h
Benson boiler, which is again disassembled and sent to
Russia already in 1945.
1927: Construction of a Benson test boiler for the Technical
University of Berlin (Prof. Josse) with a steam output of 3
t/h, 230 bar/450 °C. In 1927, Prof. Josse makes the first
attempt to operate this Benson boiler for approx. 14 days at
subcritical conditions with the pressure control valve wide
open, which is also fully successful. This also confirms, from
the academic side, the experiences of the operating
personnel of other Benson boilers that a Benson boiler can
also be operated at subcritical conditions. On the one hand,
this result renders the Benson patent worthless (it explicitly
specifies the pressure control valve), and on the other hand
Hans Gleichmann recognizes the opportunity and the large
advantages of sliding pressure operation for power plants.
Modification of the Gartenfeld Benson boiler therefore
simultaneously includes reconfiguration for sliding pressure
operation, and starting from 1930 both boilers are operated
only in sliding pressure mode.
1927: The decision to construct a second Benson boiler in
the Siemens cable plant is taken so early that the correct
information on salt deposits in the evaporation end zone
can no longer be implemented. The evaporation end zone is
not moved to the second pass as a so-called transition
section until a modification in 1931. This boiler is also
constructed as an outdoor boiler in tower configuration.
This boiler has a steam output of 37.5 t/h, 221 bar in the
evaporator and 182 bar/465 °C at the reheater outlet. In the
combustion zone, which has a square cross section in the
lower area and a circular cross section above, the
evaporator tubes are implemented in a spiral configuration
with two sections. After 1932, this Benson boiler is also
operated in sliding pressure mode without a pressure
control valve.1928: Construction of a 7.5 t h Benson boiler with a stoker
combustion system with I.G. Farben in the Bitterfeld central
power plant. Siemens assumes the costs for the parts
exposed to water/steam. The pressure in the evaporator is
221 bar; superheater outlet conditions are 25 bar/400 °C.
This system clearly demonstrates that the frequent tube
breaks are caused by salt deposits. It also proves that the
Benson boiler is also suitable for operation with stoker firing
from a control standpoint.
1929: Construction of the Langerbrügge Benson boiler for
the Société des Centrales Électricques des Flandres et du
Brabant with a steam output of 125 t/h, 221 bar/450 °C at
the superheater outlet and with reheat at 56 bar/450 °C.
This boiler, constructed as an outdoor boiler in tower
configuration, is among the largest plants of its time. The
topping turbine is operated at a constant supply pressure.
This boiler is also repeatedly modified. First the evaporation
end zone is moved to the second pass. In 1934, the furnace
tubing, which is implemented as double spiral-wound
tubing, is modified to a vertical riser/downcomer system
due to heavy slag formation in the furnace. The superheater
pressure is also reduced to 160 bar.
Based on the results from Langerbrügge, the evaporator in
the furnace is subsequently implemented as a
riser/downcomer system with intermediate headers. This
somewhat elaborate construction will later be long-retained
by licensees as none dare to build a once-through
evaporator design. All further development work for the
operationally mature Benson boiler will also be performed
by Siemens in subsequent years.
1929: Joint design and construction of a Benson ship boiler
with Blohm + Voss for MV Uckermark. Steam output is 24
t/h, evaporator pressure is 221 bar, steam conditions
downstream of the superheater are 69 bar/445 bar °C. The
riser/downcomer system is implemented for the first time.
The boiler is converted to subcritical pressure in 1934 by
removal of the pressure control valve; the evaporation end
zone is moved to the second pass. In 1937, the boiler is
replaced with two new Benson boilers of equal capacity.
The previously described Benson boilers, with the exception
of the boiler for the MV Uckermark, are all designed in what
was then Siemens department AZ 7h and are produced in
the Borsig shops (marine boilers at Blohm + Voss). It has
been learned how a once-through boiler must be
constructed if it is to operate reliably in continuous
operation.
The expenditures for the various modifications have since
cost the Benson account 2,500,000 Reichsmark. It is to the
credit of Hans Gleichmann that he has successfully
negotiated this financial dry spell with the board of
directors.
1933: Siemens decides to cease the construction of Benson
boilers in its own shops.
1933: Hans Gleichmann and his employees make every
effort to secure the implementation of the Benson boiler in
industrial power plants and electric power utilities.
76. Siemens as the licensor for Benson boilers
1925 to 1945
In 1925, Siemens obtains the exclusive license to the
Benson patents with the right to issue sublicenses through
the contract with "Internationale Benson-Patentverwertungs
AG". Siemens issues the first sublicense to Steammotor on
1926-10-23. The background for the issue of this license is
no longer known; Steammotor did not construct a single
Benson boiler.
Siemens decides in 1933 to cease the construction of
Benson boilers in its own shops, because the construction
of steam boilers exceeds the scope of Siemens'
manufacturing program. Boiler construction requires a
completely different manufacturing process than that for
turbines or generators. This may also have been influenced
by the global economic crisis. The last order (Langerbrügge)
is in 1929. Instead, Siemens now issues licenses to the
boiler industry.
In 1933, Siemens issues a strategic license to Westinghouse
Electric & Manufacturing Co., dated 1933-10-16. The
background for this license is a framework agreement from
1924 regarding the exchange of information and a shared
interest. One point in this shared interest is the delineation
of areas of influence. For example, Siemens does not appear
on the US market, therefore Westinghouse primarily leaves
the European market to Siemens. This framework
agreement with Westinghouse is renewed in the early '50s,
until it is officially terminated in the early '60s. The Benson
license expires in 1945; Westinghouse likely never intended
to manufacture boilers.The actual granting of licenses to boiler companies then
begins in 1934. Up to the end of the war, 17 manufacturers
have received a Benson license, including:
LicenseeContract start
date
A. Borsig Maschinenbau AG, Berlin-Tegel 1938-05-23
Dürrwerke AG, Ratingen 1934-06-30
Blohm + Voss Kommanditges. auf Aktien,
Hamburg1934-09-25
Vereinigte Kesselwerke AG, Düsseldorf 1935-10-08
Walther & Cie., Cologne 1936-11-09
L. & C. Steinmüller GmbH, Gummersbach 1937-03-15
Friedr. Krupp Germaniawerft AG, Kiel-
Gaarden1937-12-08
Ansaldo S.A., Genoa 1939-11-11
The license fee (e.g. at Dürrwerke AG) is initially 5% of the
net price, not including shipping and packaging.
In 1935, the Siemens boiler design department produces a
complete design for a Benson boiler incorporating all results
regarding design and operating behavior. Main points
include the furnace tubing with a riser/downcomer system
and the boiler control. All new Benson boilers are operated
at subcritical pressure, so that the original patent from Mark
Benson becomes worthless. However, the termination of
various contracts with Mark Benson and the Benson Super
Power Corporation (BSPC) is inadvertently neglected.
This leads to  a protracted legal dispute with BSPC regarding
license fees from the late '50s up to the mid-'60s.
A patent dispute between Siemens/Krupp Germaniawerft
and Sulzer/Halberg is concluded with a settlement in 1940.
The intent is to cease competitive activities between
Siemens and Sulzer in order to promote the final
breakthrough of the once-through boiler over the drumYear Facility OperatorOutput
t/hPressure
barTemp.
°CFuel
1924 Rugby test rig* Siemens, Berlin 4.5 103 420 Oil
1925 Nonnendamm Siemens, Berlin 10 105 410 Oil
1926 Cable works 1 Siemens, Berlin 30 190 450 Hard coal
1927 Cable works 2 Siemens, Berlin 37.5 190 465 Hard coal
1927Berlin Technical
UniversityBerlin Technical University,
Berlin3 230 450 Oil
1928 Bitterfeld I.G. Farben, Bitterfeld 7.5 221 380 Lignite
1929Langerbrügge/
BelgiumSociété des Centrales
Électr. des Flandres125 190 470 Hard coal
1929 MV Uckermark 1 * Hapag, Hamburg 24 80 460 Oil
Benson boilers constructed by Siemens (* completion or jointly with Blohm + Voss)
8boiler. However, the Benson licensees actually accuse
Siemens of promoting the Sulzer boiler, demand a reduction
in license fees and even threaten contract termination.
Due to the chaos of war, the last Benson boiler for the
duration is ordered in 1943. Up to this time, licensees have
constructed 125 Benson boilers with steam capacities of up
to 160 t/h and a cumulative output of 2,880 kg/s (10,368
t/h), of which 74 are constructed by Dürrwerke and Borsig
alone. A large number of marine boilers are also
constructed for the German Navy.
As a result of royalty payments received up to late 1944, the
negative balance of the Benson account was reduced from
2,500,000 to 750,000 Reichsmark.
New beginnings after 1945
Towards the end of the war, the most important documents
had to be rescued from the Red Army approaching Berlin.
On March 12, 1945, part of the power plant engineering
department is relocated from Berlin to Mülheim/Essen under
the “West Group Directorate" to protect the employees and
expertise from access by the Russians. All of the important
planning documents and files are loaded onto two trucks
with trailers and are also relocated to Mülheim.
In connection with the end of the Second World War, the
London agreement dated 1946-07-27 on the handling of
German patents specifies the confiscation of industrial
property rights (patents, trademarks, brands). The Benson
patents thus become worthless. The construction of steam
turbines and boilers is also prohibited. Furthermore, there is
no capital available for the construction of new power
plants. Significant corrosion damage also results in existing
plants due to inexperienced operating personnel. Tube
breaks in the boilers repeatedly force shutdowns. The
Benson boiler thus appears to have come to an end.
As the Allies transition from the Morgenthau Plan to the
Marshall Plan, the necessary capital for the construction of
power plants is again available. A series of orders quickly
follows for the previously usual capacities of 160 - 200 t/h
for installation in range-type power plants where the boilers
deliver steam into a common header.
In correspondence dated 1950-05-15 to Mr. Schultes
(successor to Hans Gleichmann), the patent department
recommends that the Benson license business be
discontinued since there are no more patents and the
balance is still negative. However, the responsible engineers
do not follow this recommendation; instead, the foundation
for the future business success of the Benson license is laid
with new patents.
The rapid economic growth beginning after the end of the
war results in renewed and growing interest in the Benson
technology among electric power utilities and boiler
construction companies. The transition to higher unit
capacities, unit-mode operation between the boiler and
turbine and the implementation of ultra-high pressures
enables high plant efficiency. Reheat is implemented as astandard feature and a series of plants with double reheat is
constructed. The suitability of the Benson boiler for high
pressures and a flexible operating mode with constant
steam temperature across the entire load range meets these
requirements especially well.
1950 to 1970
The license business soon recovers with the changing
political and economic conditions, and well-known boiler
manufacturers can again be acquired as licensees,
including:
LicenseeContract start
date
Deutsche Babcock & Wilcox
Dampfkesselwerke AG, Oberhausen,1950-04-11
Babcock & Wilcox Ltd., London 1951-09-20
Simon-Carves Ltd., Stockport 1951-11-01
Yokoyama Engineering Co. Ltd., Kobe 1954-03-01
Babcock & Wilcox, Barberton 1954-04-29
A/S Burmeister & Wain’s Motor- e
Maskinfabrik af 1971, Copenhagen1954-09.24
Maschinenfabrik Augsburg-Nürnberg AG,
Nuremberg1955-06-16
Clarke, Chapman & Co., Ltd., Gateshead 1956-04-24
Koninklijke Maschinefabriek Gebr. Stork &
Co., Hengelo, later Stork Ketels B.V.1959-09-10
Babcock-Hitachi K. K., Tokyo 1960-06-02
In 1951, the boiler department is transferred from Mülheim
to Erlangen, the current company headquarters, and
employee numbers gradually begin to increase.
In the '50 and '60s important innovations in the area of
boiler construction are introduced:
 In 1954, many Benson boilers with slag tap firing are
ordered. The evaporator tubing is designed with a
meandering pattern to accommodate the geometric
complexity of the furnace.
 In 1956, the first American Benson boiler without
masonry and with walls welded gas-tight is constructed in
the Breed power plant of the American Electric Power Corp.
(output 450 MW, 1350 t/h, 240 bar/565 °C, double reheat
545/565 °C, manufacturer: Babcock USA).
 In 1960, Siemens introduces spiral-wound furnace tubing
in large boiler manufacturing. The Civitavecchia plant
(manufacturer: Ansaldo) still has a skin-casing design; the
Rhodiaceta (manufacturer: VKW), Badalona and Fintinele
plants (manufacturer: Dürrwerke) have boilers with
enclosure walls welded gas-tight in tower configuration.
Unfortunately, it was neglected to protect this innovation
with a patent to extend the technical advantage over the
Sulzer boiler for as long as possible. The differences from
9the spiral-wound tubing in the first Benson boilers in the
'20s and from the AEG patent with a round slag-tap furnace
(later acquired by Dürrwerke AG) are so great that the
award of a patent would have been likely.
The Siemens boiler department works on the solution of the
resulting design problems; many patents are applied for and
granted. Licensee consulting is expanded in Germany and
internationally. Emphasis in these years is clearly in the
design area. Concepts are also developed to make the
boilers safer and to improve operating behavior. Siemens
becomes the leading power plant consultant in Germany
since they are the sole manufacturer whose competency
covers the technology of all the components in a power
plant.
Order receipt for Benson boilers increases sharply. The fee is
reduced for many licensees, as a defined order volume with
higher license fees is soon exceeded.
After the once-through boiler has surpassed the drum boiler
in Germany, competition between the Benson boiler and the
Sulzer boiler becomes increasingly fierce and culminates at
the 5th world power conference in Vienna in 1956. Mr. Juzi,
the Sulzer representative, responds so unobjectively to a
contribution to the discussion from Ruprecht
Michel/Siemens that he is repeatedly warned by the
president and must finally leave the podium amidst whistles
from the audience.
However, it must be noted objectively that the success of
the Benson boiler is due not only to its good and flexible
concept and licensee consulting by the Boiler department,
but that Siemens' market position as a leading power plant
consultant in Germany also contributes to the growth of the
Benson boiler. As a power plant consultant, Siemens also
influences development in the field of boilers: For example,
a boiler and firing concept is developed under the
management of Siemens in cooperation with VKW and RWE
enabling the first unproblematic combustion of coal with a
high salt content (350 MW Buschhaus unit).
1970 to 1985
After the licensees surmounted the design problems
associated with the introduction of the gas-tight tube wall
with the help of Siemens, they believe that they have no
further need of Siemens expertise to construct Benson
boilers, and the interest of the German licensees in the
Benson license undergoes a palpable decline. Furthermore,
the importance of Siemens as an advisor for coal-fired
power plants in Germany decreases with the penetration of
nuclear power plants.
In this context, the German boiler manufacturers terminate
the license agreements in June 1971. A meeting is held in
Erlangen on 1971-10-20, in which the management of all
German licensees participate and which is chaired by
Siemens board member Hasso Leiste. They first offer to
completely forego consulting by Siemens with the exception
of the use of patents and to reduce the license fees
accordingly.Siemens attempts to prevent the worst by proposing the
construction of a new test rig and intensified research. The
boiler manufacturers accept this proposal and a
compromise is reached in which new contracts are agreed
upon. The basis for calculating the license fees is also
changed, from a percentage of the boiler price to boiler
output (DM per t/h steam capacity), with separate
calculations for oil/gas boilers and for coal boilers. A sliding
price formula is introduced. This change obviates the
consistently recurring and often somewhat embarrassing
discussions between Siemens and the licensees regarding
the boiler price to be used in determining the license fees.
A new test building and laboratory building then
constructed on the Süd site in Erlangen (Building 64), which
will accommodate the new Benson test rig. This starts
operation in the fall of 1974.
With the completion of the Benson test rig, Siemens
completely restructures consulting for its licensees: Siemens
now defines research projects, agrees on these with the
licensees and presents the results in annual licensee
conferences. With this fundamental research, Siemens
becomes the global leader in the areas of internal heat
transfer and pressure drop in tubes. The same applies for
the simulation work on the dynamic behavior of the boiler
and the unit.
The focus of its licensee consulting shifts from design and
configuration issues to questions of the thermodynamic and
fluid dynamic design of the evaporator and the dynamic
behavior of the boiler. The German licensees reward this by
extending the license agreements.
Interesting discussions are held in 1973 regarding a merger
between Sulzer licensee EVT and Benson licensee MAN. The
new company is prepared to offer Sulzer boilers within
Germany only in exceptional cases and to pay Siemens 70%
of the license fee (corresponding to the market shares of
MAN and EVT) for all new once-through boilers (Benson and
Sulzer boilers) built by this company in Germany and
internationally. However, when Walther suddenly changes
the capital situation as a 40% shareholder of EVT, the
merger in this form fails.
In the '60s and '70s, Japan is dominated by supercritical
boilers of the American universal pressure and combined
circulation designs. In the fall of 1979, licensee Kawasaki
therefore organizes a round trip to the seven major
Japanese EPUs, where Siemens holds presentations on
Benson boilers. The Benson boiler then also achieves
penetration of the Japanese market.
Due to the license payments, the German licensees
frequently request preferential treatment from Siemens in
the award of contracts for nuclear power plant components.
Siemens therefore decides in the early '80s to allow the
Benson license to expire. Research activities are to be
drastically reduced and license contracts will not be
extended. This decision, with which Siemens would have
lost large license revenues and which would have damaged
10Siemens' image in the future, especially internationally, is
reversed in the face of growing interest by licensees in
Siemens expertise. In subsequent years, they forego the
usual termination notices to obtain changes in the
conditions. Nuclear power plants soon lose their importance
and therefore Siemens loses its importance as a customer:
The decision thus peters out at the end of '80s.
1985 to 2000
For reasons of cost, licensees around the world decrease
their development capacities on the water/steam side of the
boiler, thereby increasing the technological lead of the
Siemens Boiler department.
In the USA, rifled tubes are implemented increasingly in
large once-through boilers as well as in drum-type boilers.
Japanese Sulzer licensee Mitsubishi constructs three
700 MW boilers with vertical-tubed furnaces employing
these tubes. Starting in 1990, Siemens therefore intensifies
its fundamental research in rifled tubes. The research results
lead to many patents (principle patent EP 0 581 760 B2) for
furnace walls with vertical tubes and low mass flux. The
area of application for this "low mass flux design" can be
extended down to a boiler output of 350 MW.
In the mid '90s, Siemens wins a protracted patent suit
against Sulzer, which violates a patent for an especially
thermoelastic furnace suspension system. Sulzer has to pay
SFR 250,000 to Siemens.
Public relations efforts are increased: With presentations at
international conferences and with publications, the
scientific work by Siemens and its significance for improving
the competitiveness of the Benson boiler become known
worldwide. The focal point of this activity is the future
market of China. In many presentations and seminars in
China, operators, licensing authorities and universities are
familiarized with European power plant technology,
focusing on Benson boilers. Penetration by European power
plant technology succeeds in 1996 with the Waigaoqiao
power plant, when Siemens is able to change the planning
of three subcritical 660 MW American-designed units to two
supercritical 900 MW units and to acquire the order for the
turbines. However, the boiler order still goes to Sulzer
licensee EVT. The Chinese market is subsequently
dominated by the Benson boiler.
Further well-known boiler manufacturers are acquired as
licensees over this period:
Licensee Contract start date
Foster Wheeler Energy International
Inc., Clinton1996-08-20
Bharat Heavy Electrical Industries
Ltd., New Delhi,1999-07-01
A global gas turbine boom begins in the mid-'90s. Basic
patent EP 944 801 B1 0 is awarded for a horizontal Benson
heat recovery steam generator downstream of a gas turbine
(unfired combined-cycle power plant). Expectations arefulfilled by a demonstration plant downstream of a 250 MW
gas turbine in Cottam, England. This results in the
conclusion of license agreements with many new boiler
manufacturers starting in 2002, including Alstom, which
has since acquired Sulzer and Combustion Engineering.
As consequence of the gas turbine booms, the construction
of coal-fired power plants comes nearly to a standstill. Only
16 Benson boilers are ordered over the five years from 1995
to 1999. A financial dry spell can be delayed, as most of the
contracts do not provide for payment of the license fee until
after handover of the boiler to the operator.
2000 to 2005
While China still imports many coal-fired power plants over
the '90s, even high-capacity power plants are now being
constructed domestically with foreign technology. The
decision-makers in China are apparently convinced of the
advantages of Benson technology, with the result that
several of the major Chinese boiler manufacturers obtain a
Benson sublicense:
Main Licensee Sublicense
Babcock-Hitachi K. K.Babcock-Hitachi Dongfang
Boiler Co., Ltd.
Babcock & Wilcox Comp.Babcock & Wilcox Beijing
Company
Mitsui Babcock Energy Ltd.Harbin Boiler Co., Ltd.
(technology transfer
agreement for 15 years)
The Benson boiler thus also achieves domination in the
world's largest current market for coal-fired power plants.
For example, 48 boilers are ordered from these three
manufacturers in 2003, corresponding to an over 70% share
of the market in China. From 2004 to mid-2005 a further 38
Benson boilers for a unit output of 600 MW and above are
ordered in China.
2005 to 2018
A focal point in the support of the Benson licensee over the
years after 2005 is seen in the introduction of vertical-tube
evaporators with low mass flux to the market [128].
Important elements of the new evaporator concept are
what is known as the natural circulation characteristic (or
positive flow characteristic) and the implementation of
optimized rifled tubes in fired boilers with high heat fluxes
in the furnace or the use of smooth tubes or standard rifled
tubes in circulating fluidized bed systems with low heat
flux. For heat recovery steam generators with a horizontal
gas path, a concept for a once-through evaporator with
vertical heat exchange tubes and a natural circulation
characteristic was developed and patented already in the
mid-'90s.
The first pulverized-coal fired system with a Benson low
mass flux design is the boiler in Yaomeng 1 in China,
commissioned in May 2002. This is a modification project in
which large areas of the pressure section are replaced.
11Following extremely positive operating results, the
customer orders the modification of a second unit in 2007.
The first new plant constructed with this evaporator
concept and boxer firing is the supercritical steam generator
in the Longview project in the USA, which can be handed
over to the customer in 2011.
A further key application for the Benson low mass flux
design entails boilers for firing anthracite and dry ash
removal. The use of vertical tubing is nearly absolutely
necessary due to the complex furnace geometry. The first
project implemented is Jinzhushan plant in China, which is
commissioned in early 2009. By late 2017, a total of 32
boilers for outputs between 600 MW and 660 MW have
been ordered or are already in operation.
Vertical tubing with low mass flux is also used in
supercritical plants with a circulating fluidized bed. Lagisza
plant in Poland is commissioned and handed over to the
customer in early 2009. The boiler in Baima, China is
currently the largest operating circulating fluidized bed
plant in the world, with an output of 600 MW. It is taken
over by the operator in April of 2013. Many projects for 350
MW are ordered in China in the following years. By late
2017, the Benson reference list boasts a total of 26
supercritical CFB plants.
The first heat recovery steam generators with a horizontal
gas path, vertical heat exchange tubes and a once-through
evaporator is commissioned in 1999 in Cottam, UK. It
remains the only heat recovery steam generator of this type
until 2007. Only in this and subsequent years is it possible
to successfully introduce this technology to the market with
projects such as Hamm-Uentrop, Herdecke, Pego, Sloe
Centrale etc.
50 Benson heat recovery steam generators of this design
have since been commissioned and handed over to the
customers. Further projects have already been ordered and
are in the implementation phase.
Starting from 2012, the development of a once-through
evaporator for a heat recovery steam generator with a
vertical gas path is started in the Benson department. The
basis for this development is basic patent EP 993 0 581 A1
from 1998.
The successful market introduction of this technology is
significantly accelerated in 2015 by the order of 24 heat
recovery steam generators of this design downstream of
400 MW gas turbines. 2018 is characterized by the
commissioning of these heat recovery steam generators.
7. Further research and development by Siemens
The name of Siemens has long been associated with boiler
development: Friedrich Siemens (1826 -1904), a younger
brother of company founder Werner von Siemens and
inventor of the regenerative furnace (1856), implements
the radiation section in regenerative furnaces in 1879,
where heat transfer from the flame to the wall is no longer
through contact but rather by radiation. This procedure isalso quickly implemented in steam boiler construction. In
1900, the Technical University of Dresden awards the first
honorary doctorate to Friedrich August Siemens.
Research and development from 1925 to 1950
The development activities at Siemens for Benson boilers
start in 1925 with the implementation of the concept of
Mark Benson in a completely new, competitive industrial
boiler for power plants that has no precedent. Focal points
of the development at that time:
 Furnace tubing
 Feedwater chemistry
 Configuration of heat exchange surfaces to prevent tube
damage
 Boiler control
The development results are based on theoretical
considerations, investigations in the test facilities in Berlin-
Nonnendamm, the Technical University of Berlin and in
Bitterfeld as well as the exchange of feedback with the
power plants.
The vertical tubing of the furnace, comprising many tubes
connected in series, is repeatedly subject to tube breaks due
to a lack of venting. This tubing is therefore replaced by
spiral tubing. However, this becomes so heavily fouled that
the vertical tube configuration is again resorted to. The
evaporator tubes are combined in individual systems with
top-mounted outlet headers that can be vented and which
are connected in series. The advantages of this
riser/downcomer system are the small temperature rise in a
system and good flow stability. This somewhat complex
design is long retained, because nobody dares to implement
an evaporator configuration without disruption.
Despite all precautionary measures, the two Benson boilers
in Berlin Gartenfeld are repeatedly subject to tube breaks in
the end section of the evaporator. In roughly 1929, it is
recognized that the excessive salt content in the feedwater
is responsible for this, and an evaporator system is therefore
constructed for feedwater conditioning. Through a 5-fold
evaporation, a salt content of < 10 mg/l can be maintained
and the number of tube breaks is drastically reduced.
The problem of salt deposits is finally considerably
mitigated in 1929/30 by configuring the end section of the
evaporator in an area of low heat exchange surface loads.
This results in what is known as the final evaporator zone.
The boilers are also shut down roughly every 14 days and
are flushed to the condenser via the startup line.
Roughly in 1927, the Benson boiler at the Technical
University of Berlin is operated for the first time with
subcritical pressure in the evaporator and with the pressure
control valve wide open. This operating mode is also proven
in other Benson boilers. Hans Gleichmann recognizes the
advantages of the sliding pressure operating mode for unit
operation, and he introduces this operating mode to power
plant operation in the early '30s. The Benson patent thus
proves to be worthless for further development.
12A further focal point of development is the boiler control
system. The long throughput time of roughly 2 to 10
minutes for the feedwater and the effect of the thermal
masses make it extremely difficult to maintain a constant
HP steam temperature. Not until the invention of the
secondary heat exchange surface in the '30s can
satisfactory control results be achieved, also in load
following mode. Water heating is measured in an approx.
15 m long loop of piping configured in the upper section of
the furnace and is used as a fast control signal
A Benson boiler that is wholly suitable for implementation
and all aspects of which have been fully designed by
Siemens is thus available in 1935. Until the mid '50s, boiler
tubing is always configured based on the riser/downcomer
system, until a spiral or meandering tubing system is again
implemented based on new technical requirements.
Further important theoretical work follows. Rupprecht
Michel prepares his dissertation on optimum feedwater
temperature, which results in new knowledge for the design
of the turbine cycle. Over the time up to roughly 1950, the
Benson boiler design calculations are based primarily on the
technical literature, supplemented and improved by
Siemens' own measurements in power plants. The so-called
"cookbook" with design instructions and diagrams is
developed for Siemens employees.
Research and development from 1950 to 1975
In the mid-'50s, employees of the Boiler department and
Siemens & Halske AG jointly perform extensive control
investigations in Karnap power plant. The results obtained
ensure Siemens & Halske AG a technological advantage over
the competition that can be maintained for many years.
As the first fundamental theoretical investigation, the
technical article on "Flow conditions in once-through
boilers" is completed for Benson licensees in 1958 (Elmar
Kefer). This investigates the stability and flow behavior of
parallel systems of tubes as a function of mass flow rate,
pressure, inlet enthalpy and heating and provides
instructions for designing once-through evaporators. The
extensive calculations are still performed by slide rule.
After the end of the '50s, Siemens activities are focused on
the development of new boiler concepts and the solution of
design problems such as:
 Spiral furnace tubing
 Transition from a masonry design to self-supporting, gas-
tight tube walls, even for two-pass boilers
 Cost-effective startup systems
 Integration of the Benson boiler in combined gas/steam
turbine processes.
Details of these design and process engineering
development steps are described with appendices listed in
Section 8, "Milestones in technical development”.
Damage of Benson boilers in cases where the cause of the
defect cannot be established unequivocally is theinducement for construction of the first Benson test rig in
the Siemens Nuremberg transformer plant. This is
commissioned in 1955. The electrically heated test rig is
designed for a mass flow rate of 50 kg/h and steam
conditions of 400 atm/700 °C. Tests for determining internal
heat transfer are performed here that yield useful results
within the bounds of the limited possibilities - only tubes
with an inside diameter of 5 or 8 mm can be studied. The
test rig is simultaneously used for chemical investigations.
In early 1962, the Benson test rig is relocated to the
Siemens Research Center in Erlangen. Phenomena such as
the effect of magnetite deposits on heat transfer are
researched there.
In the mid-'60s, Peter Mörk, an employee of the Siemens
Boiler department, transfers to EURATOM in Ispra, Italy,
where he constructs a test facility for studying internal heat
transfer and pressure drop in tubes. The measurement
results achieved there for tubes with an inside diameter of
10 and 20 mm are evaluated by Siemens. Together with the
results of Siemens' research, these form the basis for the
technical field of "internal heat transfer and pressure drop in
tubes", in which Siemens is to later become a global leader.
A control manual is developed jointly with Siemens
Karlsruhe from 1971 to 1974. This contains instructions for
the design and analysis of Benson boilers to enable the
optimum fulfilment of specified control requirements.
Research and development from 1975 to 2003
In 1971, German licensees want to allow the Benson license
to expire, because they believe they can construct Benson
boilers without Siemens' expertise. In the negotiations with
German licensees, Siemens proposes to intensify research
and development efforts, thereby achieving the conclusion
of new contracts at relatively acceptable conditions. These
contracts introduce a completely new phase of the Benson
license: Siemens defines research projects and agrees on
these with the licensees.
The contract negotiations in 1971 result in construction of
the second Benson test rig on the Siemens Erlangen Süd
site. Design data:
Pressure 330 bar
Temperature 600 °C
Mass flow rate 4 kg/s
Electrical heating power: 2,000 kW
A new test building and a laboratory are constructed
(Building 64) for this high-pressure test system, the 470 m²
area of which also houses smaller test plants in addition to
the auxiliary systems such as the demineralization system
and the power supply. The costs for the construction of the
test system (not including the building) are DM 3,346,000,
paid for from Benson license revenues.
Three key development points are in the foreground in the
design of this facility:
13 Development of the design basis for heat transfer and
flow processes.
 Testing and further development of design elements.
 Investigations for questions of feedwater chemistry with
regard to the formation and retention of protective
coatings.
The investigations on the Benson test rig will soon position
Siemens as the global leader in several areas. Key results are
as follows:
 Internal heat transfer in tubes: With the more than
148,000 measurements on smooth tubes (inside diameter
12.5 mm to 24.3 mm, status late 2004) over a wide range
of parameters, well-founded relationships based on physical
conditions are developed for the first time for predictive
calculation of the heat transfer in the two-phase zone,
thereby establishing a new design basis for evaporator heat
exchange surfaces. The effect of dynamic processes
(pressure change) on heat transfer is also new.
Induced by the use of rifled tubes in the USA and Japan,
investigations with this tube type are started in the early
'80s. Internal heat transfer is increased by 30% by
optimizing the rifling geometry. By late 2004, more than
243,000 measurements are performed on rifled tubes
(inside diameter 13 to 35 mm). In this area as well, Siemens
takes its place at the forefront of global research; many tube
manufacturers adopt the optimized rifling geometry. The
results are provided to the licensees in the continuously
updated manual "Heat transfer in tubes".
 Pressure drop in pipes: The effect of heating on pressure
drop is determined in parallel with the heat transfer
measurements. Pressure drop measurements are performed
in a "cold water section" with pipes with extended exposure
time that are subjected to repeated acid cleaning during the
test period to enable the estimation of changes in pressure
drop for boilers in operation and possible effects of the flow
characteristic. The same test equipment is used to
determine friction factors for flow restrictors. The results are
provided to the licensees in the manual "Pressure drop in
tubes".
 Water/steam mixtures: Tests with water/steam mixtures
regarding segregation or uniform mixture distribution are
complex and problematic from an instrumentation
standpoint; the tests are therefore performed using
water/air mixtures). Special emphasis must be given to the
development of a simply designed centrifugal separator
with a high separation efficiency that is configured in the
startup and low-load system. The application for patent
protection is unfortunately neglected, with the result that
this separator is soon copied worldwide. The impingement
plate distributor developed by Siemens for uniform
distribution of the steam/water mixture is also proven in
practice.
 Design elements: The transition of conventional power
plants from base load operation to intermediate peaking
duty requires a boiler with thermoelastic construction. Thetemperature distribution is therefore measured during non-
steady-state temperature behavior in comb plates and
support straps welded to a membrane wall in various ways
in the Benson test rig. Comparative calculations using the
finite element method provide information on heat transfer
by radiation or contact at points that are not welded and at
design-related gaps. These are used to elaborate boundary
conditions and instructions for the construction of a
thermoelastic support strap design for the furnace spiral
tubing. Based on these documents, Siemens develops a
special thermoelastic double-strap suspension together with
licensee Balcke-Dürr, for which a patent is issued. Once-
through boiler competitor Sulzer uses this patent and loses
patent suit initiated by Siemens.
 Erosion corrosion and feedwater chemistry: Damage in
the preheating and piping areas in nuclear power plants due
to erosion corrosion leads to extensive investigations of this
phenomenon in the Benson test rig. The results are also of
interest for Benson licensees: high chromium content in
flow restrictors and in water/steam separators drastically
reduces the erosion rates.
The scientific importance of the work on the Benson test
systems is evident from the many dissertations based on
investigations on these systems.
Name Year Title
Blank, Günter 1963 Measurements of enthalpy
differences in steam at pressures
of 100 to 400 bar and
temperatures of 400 to 700
degrees Celsius
Thomas,
Dieter1974 Experimental investigation of the
deposition of suspended
magnetite in flow in boiler tubes
and of the effect of magnetite
deposits on heat transfer
Hein, Dietmar 1980 Model projections for rewetting
through flooding
Köhler,
Wolfgang1984 Effect of wetting condition of heat
exchange surface on heat transfer
and pressure drop in an
evaporator tube
Kefer, Volker 1989 Flow modes and heat transfer in
evaporator tubes at different
slopes
Zheng,
Qinghao1991 Frictional pressure drop in
gas/liquid flows in smooth and
rifled tubes
Griem, Harald 1995 Thermohydraulic investigations of
rifled evaporator tubes
The research projects are agreed upon with the licensee at
the annual licensee conferences, which are introduced in
1975. In these conferences, the latest research and
development results, especially from the Benson test rig, are
presented to the licensees and information is exchanged
14about operating results and problems. Future projects are
also presented and discussed. The presentations are then
compiled in annual R&D reports.
These licensee conferences are initially held only in
Erlangen with German-speaking participants. As the interest
of international licensees increases, the annual information
and exchange of experience is extended to Great Britain,
Japan and the USA in the mid '90s.
The focus of further development and research is in the area
of "internal heat transfer and pressure drop in tubes":
● Internal heat transfer in tubes                       25.5%
● Pressure drop in pipes                                      12.1%
● Flow conditions in parallel piping systems    10.8%
● Simulation of dynamic behavior                   7.6%
● Boiler and power plant concepts                     7.6%
● Design 7.0%
● Miscellaneous approx. 30.0%
In the late '80s and early '90s, the split of KWU F (fossil-fired
power plants) and KWU R (reactor department) is prepared,
in which the test facilities at the Erlangen Süd site are also
to be included. In connection with this, F management
proposes that the Benson test rig be relocated to the
Mülheim manufacturing plant. However, this fails under
objection from the Boiler department, as this proposal
would not only result in social problems (relocation of
employees) as well as significant costs, but would also have
entailed significant disadvantages for the Benson license
due to the less straightforward connection between testing
and implementation.
In the late '70s, Siemens develops a boiler design and
calculation program that is initially used internally for
licensee consulting. Only Babcock has a similar computer
program in Germany. Steinmüller decides to perform
calculations with the Siemens program. In the '80s, a
completely new program family is then developed for boiler
design, based on the latest knowledge ranging from furnace
calculation up to determination of the internal heat transfer
in the tubes. The DEFOS program for fossil-fired boilers and
DEFA for heat recovery steam generators are used by
multiple boiler manufacturers within the framework of the
license agreements. Further design programs soon give
Siemens - with the exception of structural stability analysis
programs - computer programs that are at least on par with
those of the experienced boiler manufacturers.
Because all previously known control theories for boilers are
based on linear mathematical models but the processes
taking place in the boiler do not follow linear dependencies,
it is decided in 1976 to develop a nonlinear model for boiler
dynamics. This is achieved in cooperation with the licensees
(especially Steinmüller), Siemens Karlsruhe and the
University of Karlsruhe under the management of the Boiler
department. Joachim Franke authors his dissertation on this
topic, "Investigation of the hydrodynamic stability of
evaporator heat exchange surfaces by nonlinear
simulation." The basic model development is completed inlate 1981. New control concepts for Benson boilers with
improved control quality result. The future-oriented model
concept is publically recognized in 1987 by the award of the
Heinrich-Mandel Prize to Joachim Franke by the Technical
Association of Large Power Plant Operators (VGB).
The nonlinear dynamic model is subsequently continuously
expanded. A program family is developed with DYNAPLANT
for simulating power plant dynamics and DYNASTAB for
stability investigations in systems of parallel tubes.
The '90s are characterized by many innovations, especially
in the area of evaporator design: The number of patent
applications is double that from previous decades.
In 1990, a patent (EP 0 439 765 B1) is filed for a Benson
boiler with superimposed circulation. In 1992, tests are also
performed with a test wall with vertical tubes in Oslavany
power plant, Slovakia. The theoretical investigations are
confirmed by the tests financed by Siemens. This
technology enables measures such as the cost-effective
conversion of existing subcritical drum boilers to once-
through boilers.
The construction of Sulzer boilers with vertical tubes and an
output of 700 MW in Japan by Mitsubishi causes Siemens to
consider the development of a similar concept based on the
measurements on rifled tubes. The result is an evaporator
with the so-called "low mass flux design" (patent EP 0 581
760 B2). Mass fluxes in this boiler are so low that an
increased heat input to individual tubes results in a higher
throughput through these same tubes. This positive flow
characteristic is verified by tests performed in the furnace of
the Farge supercritical 350 MW Benson boiler in 1993
together with Babcock and Steinmüller. Because of the
unwillingness of German licensees to take risks, it is not
until 2000 that British Mitsui Babcock constructs the first
furnace with vertical tube walls (Yaomeng power plant,
China).
The low mass flux design concept is met with great interest
worldwide: A protracted patent dispute with
Sulzer/ABB/Alstom is not resolved in favor of Siemens until
2001. This patent bears crucially in the acquisition of new
licensees Ansaldo and Foster Wheeler and extension of the
license contracts with Babcock USA and Babcock-Hitachi.
A gas turbine boom begins in the '90s. The horizontal heat
recovery steam generators for the gas turbine/steam turbine
power plants are constructed nearly exclusively with natural
and forced circulation systems. In 1997, Siemens develops a
horizontal Benson heat recovery steam generator with
nearly the same steam outlet conditions despite differing
heat input for evaporator tubes configured in parallel on the
water side and in series on the exhaust gas side (patent EP 0
944 801 B1). Many manufacturers of heat recovery steam
generators acquire a patent license - even once-through
boiler competitor Alstom.
A further key development is the fossil-fired boiler with a
horizontal furnace (patent EP 1 086 339 B1). Its advantages
15lie in cost savings for the boiler frame, assembly and
connecting lines between the boiler and turbine as well as
ease of maintenance. This concept meets with great interest
in the "700 °C power plant" research project.
In late 2004, Joachim Franke is honored as the "inventor of
the year" for his contribution to the "success story of the
Benson boiler". With this award, company management
recognizes and emphasizes to the public the innovative
activities of the Boiler department that have been
increasing since the '90s and the resulting economic
success.
Research and development from 2004 to 2018
Further tube testing is performed in the Benson laboratory
in Erlangen to close the last gaps in knowledge of heat
transfer and pressure drops in smooth tubes and rifled
tubes.
Extensive test series investigated heat transfer in smooth
tubes at a slope of 18° from the horizontal typical for spiral
tubing and with side heating from one side, the
configuration of a furnace hopper tube with a 45° slope and
heating on only one side from above and a vertical tube
with minimum mass flux.
The test series are rounded out with tests on a highly
optimized rifled tube and investigations of heat transfer and
pressure drop in smooth tubes with inserts. Overall, more
than 307,000 measurements of heat transfer and pressure
drop in smooth tubes and more than 285,000
measurements on rifled tubes are available by late 2017.
The aforementioned inserts also represent a development in
the framework of the Benson license. The angular
momentum on the water side is generated by wire coils
inserted in a smooth tube. The main advantage here is that
the cold drawing process for producing the rifling is
avoided. Cold-drawn rifling can only be produced in
materials with a maximum chromium content of 5%. The
inserts can be installed in smooth tubes of any material and
result in an internal heat transfer equivalent to that in an
optimized rifled tube.
A further focal point is of the investigations is the dynamic
stability of evaporator flow. Starting in 2014, investigations
in dynamic stability are performed in a test setup with three
vertical smooth tubes connected in parallel. This setup
enables the reproducible generation and observation of
dynamic instabilities in vertically configured heated tubes
with a geometry typical for Benson evaporators under
laboratory conditions for the first time in the world. The
purpose of the tests is to destabilize an initially stable flow
in the tubes by changing a parameter and to generate a
sustained mass flow oscillation. This stability threshold is
investigated in many measurement periods with variation of
the parameters of pressure, mass flux, subcooling at the
inlet and superheating at the outlet.
The results from these tests are used for further validation
of the dynamic stability programs.All of the Benson programs are given modern interfaces and
the software architecture is extended. The Stade program
for calculating pressure drop in individual tubes gives rise to
the StadeNet program for calculating pressure drop and the
flow distribution in networks.
A further important development is the Wathan program for
calculating stresses and the temperature distribution in
evaporator walls. The code automatically performs an
OpenFOAM calculation (finite volume method) for any fin
and tube geometry and any operating conditions.
In the area of the heat recovery steam generator, the
formulas for calculating pressure drop and heat transfer are
integrated in the KRAWAL program. The Dynaplant BENSON
program grows out of the original Dynaplant. Both
programs are given to licensees together with
comprehensive design manuals in the framework of the
Benson license for heat recovery steam generators.
The development of suitable control concepts takes on
increasing importance in the area of the Benson heat
recovery steam generator, also resulting in many patents.
8. Milestones in technical development
With the Benson boiler, Siemens has set many milestones in
boiler development as well as in power plant development
around the world:
1926 World's first industrial once-through boiler in
Siemens Berlin-Gartenfeld power plant field with
pulverized coal firing as a tower boiler for outdoor
construction. Steam output 30 t/h, 180 bar/450 °C,
manufacturer: Siemens
1926 First operation of a Benson boiler at subcritical
pressure in the test boiler at the Technical
University of Berlin
1927 Introduction of spiral furnace tubing in boiler
construction of Benson boiler 2 in the Siemens
Berlin-Gartenfeld power plant. Steam output 37.5
t/h, 190 bar/465 °C, manufacturer: Siemens
1929 World's first Benson marine boiler on MV
Uckermark. Steam output 24 t/h, pressure in
evaporator 225 bar, superheater outlet
70 bar/445 °C. The boiler is converted to subcritical
pressure in the evaporator in 1934
1929 World's first high-capacity once-through boiler in
Langerbrügge power plant, Belgium, this ranks
among the largest plants of its time. Steam output
125 t/h, 190 bar/470/40 °C, manufacturer: Siemens
1933 Introduction of sliding pressure operation by Hans
Gleichmann
1949 First once-through boiler in the world with
maximum steam temperature of 610 °C in a power
plant in the Bayer paint plant in Leverkusen. Steam
output 125 t/h, 160 bar/610 °C, manufacturer:
Dürrwerke
1954 World's first once-through boiler (Benson) with
maximum steam conditions of 300 bar/605 °C and
16double reheat 565/565 °C in the Hüls chemical
plants. Steam output 250 t/h. Manufacturer:
Dürrwerke
1954 World's first once-through boiler for two units of
150 MW each in RWE power plant, Fortuna. Steam
output 2 x 450 t/h, 181 bar/530/530 °C,
manufacturer: Steinmüller/Walther
1956 First Benson boiler (UP) with gas-tight welded walls
in Breed power plant of the American Electric
Power Corp, Steam output 1,350 t/h,
181 bar/565/565/565 °C, manufacturer: Babcock
USA
1960 World's first non-masonry once-through boiler with
gas-tight welded staged spiral furnace tubing in
Drakelow C power plant, England. Steam output
1,350 t/h, 255 bar/600/568 °C, manufacturer:
Babcock London. This design remains unique
1960 World's first non-masonry once-through boiler with
spiral furnace tubing (skin casing) in Civitavechia
power plant, Italy. Steam output 660 t/h, 210
bar/540/540 °C, manufacturer: Ansaldo
1962 World's first once-through boiler in a coal-fired
combined-cycle unit in Hohe Wand power plant,
Austria. Steam output 215 t/h, 180 bar/535/535 °C,
manufacturer: Waagner-Biro
1962 World's first once-through boiler in a CO 2-cooled
nuclear power plant in Oldsbury, England, steam
output 1,400 t/h, 105 bar/393/393 °C
manufacturer: Clark, Chapman
1963 World's first oil-fired once-through boiler with gas-
tight welded spiral tubing in Rodiaceta power
plant, steam output 90 t/h, 115 bar/530 °C,
manufacturer: VKW
1963 First high-output Benson boiler in Japan in Tokyo
Denryoku power plant, steam output 590 t/h,
190 bar/543/540 °C. Manufacturer: Yokoyama
1964 First 1000 t/h boiler in Germany in Frimmersdorf
power plant, 190 bar/530/530 °C, manufacturer:
Deutsche Babcock with Buckau R. Wolf (Sulzer
licensee)
1966 World's first coal-fired once-through boiler with
gas-tight welded spiral tubing in two-pass design in
Farge power plant, steam output 930 t/h, 250
bar/545/545 °C, manufacturer: Deutsche Babcock
1968 World's largest once-through boiler (UP) for the
two 1,300 MW coal-fired units in Cumberland
power plant, USA, steam output of 4,540 t/h
(10,000 lb/h) each, 240 bar/540/540°C.
Manufacturer: Babcock USA
1969 World's first high-capacity once-through boiler at a
gauge pressure of 7 bar on the exhaust gas side in
Lünen power plant. The boiler heat exchange
surfaces are configured in the two combustors of a
gas turbine. Steam output 312 t/h, 135 bar/525 °C,
manufacturer: Dürrwerke
1970 RWE decides to implement Benson boilers in the six
largest lignite-fired units in the world in Neurath,Niederaußem and Weisweiler power plants. Boiler
height: 110 m with a combustion zone cross
section von 20 x 20 m. Steam output 1,870 t/h
each, 175 bar/530/530 °C, manufacturer: Borsig,
Deutsche Babcock, Dürrwerke, MAN, Steinmüller,
VKW and Walther
1970 Benson boilers for the six largest natural-gas fired
combined-cycle units in the world in Firstinwerk
and Lingen power plants. The exhaust gases from
each 50 MW gas turbine serve as the oxygen carrier
(18% O 2) for a boiler. Steam output 6 x 1,032 t/h,
190 bar/535/535 °C, manufacturer: Dürrwerke und
Steinmüller
1971 Benson boilers for the two largest oil-fired units in
Europe in Scholven power plant, steam output 2 x
2,120 t/h, 200 bar/530/530 °C. Manufacturer:
Borsig und Steinmüller
1972 Benson boiler for the largest pulverized-coal fired
unit in Europe in Wilhelmshaven power plant (720
MW), steam output 2,170 t/h, 190 bar/530/530 °C,
manufacturer: Deutsche Babcock
1982 World's first once-through boiler with fluidized bed
firing in Duisburg cogeneration plant, steam
output 265 t/h, 160 bar/535/535 °C manufacturer:
Deutsche Babcock
1999 World's first once-through heat recovery steam
generator with vertical tubing and positive flow
characteristic in Cottam power plant, England.
Steam output 315 t/h, 190 bar/580 °C,
manufacturer: Deutsche Babcock
2000 1000th Benson boiler order received
2002 World's first once-through boiler with vertical
tubing and positive flow characteristic in Yaomeng
power plant, China. Steam output 936 t/h, 190
bar/540/540 °C, manufacturer: Mitsui Babcock
2003 World's first supercritical once-through boiler with
fluidized bed firing and positive flow characteristic
in Lagisza power plant, Poland. Steam output
1,295 t/h, 275 bar/560/580 °C, manufacturer:
Foster Wheeler
2007 Order for the first supercritical Benson boiler with
vertical tubing in Longview, USA.
First orders for supercritical Benson boilers with
vertical tubing for firing with anthracite in China.
2013 Commissioning of the world's largest supercritical
boiler with circulating fluidized bed in Baima, China
at 600 MW
2014 Successful measurements of dynamic instabilities
in a three-tube test in the Benson laboratory in
Erlangen
2018 Commissioning of the first Benson heat recovery
steam generator with vertical gas path in
megaprojects in Egypt
17BENSON boilers in the USA
The average output of fossil-fired units increases sharply in
the '60s and '70s, from approx. 200 MW (1960) to 600 MW
(1970). The first 1,300 MW unit is ordered in 1967. A
design for supercritical pressure is expedient for this
increased capacity to prevent extreme increases in the
diameter of the headers, lines, valves and turbine casing.
Maximum unit output increases by 200 MW every two years
from 700 MW (1961) to 1,300 MW (1967). It is therefore
impossible to account for operating experience in designing
each successive unit size. The result is a drastic drop inavailability of the supercritical units; cost-effectiveness
drops in comparison with subcritical units. According to
experts in the field, the low availability is not a result of the
once-through boiler technology, but rather is caused by
other factors, especially in the firing:
- Underdimensioned combustion zones with very high
stresses in the burner rows result in heavy slag deposits,
especially for coals from the Midwest
- The transition to pressurized firing, also in coal-fired
boilers, necessitates plant shutdown already for small leaks
in the enclosure walls9. Spread of the Benson boiler around the world
After the Second World War, the Benson boiler quickly spread throughout the entire world, as can be seen in the table:
Year Country Power plant Output
(t/h)Manufacturer:
1929 Belgium Langerbrügge 125 Siemens
1939 Italy Genoa 25 Ansaldo
1940 CSSR Banska Hutni Trinec 62 Walther
1954 Japan Makiyama Works 75 Yokoyama
1954 USA Philo 306 Babcock & Wilcox
1955 Austria St. Andrä 330 SGP
1956 Great Britain Margam 110 Simon-Carves
1956 Netherlands Buggenum 280 Stork
1957 Denmark Asnaesvaerket 400 Burmeister & Wain
1957 Poland Blachownia 240 SGP
1958 Spain Las Palmas 8 Deutsche Babcock
1964 Romania Fintinele 400 Dürrwerke
1966 Korea Pusan 400 Dürrwerke
1967 Philippines Gardner 742 Babcock-Hitachi
1967 Yugoslavia Sostanj 860 Deutsche Babcock
1969 Finland Vaskiluoto 510 VKW
1971 Ireland Tabert 800 MAN
1971 South Africa Kriel 1.585 Steinmüller
1971 Sweden Uppsala 700 Burmeister & Wain
1972 Argentina Sorrento B 515 Babcock London
1974 Taiwan Kaohsiung 245 Kawasaki
1974 Turkey Afsin-Elbistan 1.020 VKW/Deutsche Babcock
1975 Iran Mazandaran 1.410 Deutsche Babcock
1978 Australia Northern Power Station 990 VKW
1979 China Yuan Bao Shan 1.845 Steinmüller
1981 Brazil Jorge Lacerda 1.000 Deutsche Babcock
1984 Greece Megalopolis 910 VKW
2000 India Neyveli 735 AE & E
18- High steam temperatures of 566 °C and double reheat
require complex startup systems and long startup times
- Fixed-pressure operation places stresses on the turbine
valves and results in maintenance issues
The operators therefore return to subcritical units with drum
boilers, with the result that new orders for this power plant
type increase from a share of 35% to over 80% in the '70s.
By 2005, 147 UP boilers are constructed in the USA.
However, the European Benson boiler design with spiral
tubing and sliding pressure operation cannot gain a footing
in the USA.
BENSON boilers in Japan
American boiler manufacturers introduce the American
supercritical once-through boiler design in the early '60s:
- Babcock & Wilcox Co., UP boiler with Babcock-Hitachi K. K.
as licensee. 24 UP boilers are constructed, most of which
with gas or oil firing.
- Combustion Engineering Inc., the combined circulation
boiler with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. as licensee and
- Foster Wheeler Corp. the multi-pass-boiler with
Ishikawajima Harima Heavy industries Co. Ltd. as the
licensee.
The increase in nuclear power plants displaces fossil-fired
power plants to the intermediate load range. However, the
American plants, which are operated in fixed pressure mode
and require long startup times, are less suitable for this.
With the successful operation of the first supercritical
Benson boiler with spiral tubing and sliding pressure
operation in the mid '70s in the Tokyo Electric Power Ohi
power plant, interest in European power plant technology
increases in Japan, thus resulting in penetration by the
Benson boiler in the '80s supported by Siemens Acquisition.
BENSON boilers in China
Steinmüller constructs the first Benson boiler in China in
1979, in Yuan Bao Shan power plant. After several years of
startup issues due among other things to the use of coals
outside of the agreed range and the poor quality of parts
from non-German suppliers, this boiler achieves the highest
availability of all comparable plants in China in the mid-'90s
After Deutsche Babcock and Steinmüller receive further
orders for Benson boilers in the intermediate output range
in the '90s, the rapid industrialization of China necessitates
the construction of many high-capacity coal-fired power
plants. The decision falls to European technology for the
new power plants: Once-through boilers with spiral tubing,
sliding pressure operation and cost-effective startup
systems. With the Chinese sublicensees of Babcock-Hitachi
Dongfang Boiler Co., Ltd., Babcock & Wilcox Beijing
Company, Harbin Boiler Co., Ltd. and with the direct license
to Dongfang Boiler Group Co. Ltd. the Benson boiler also
dominates the Chinese market.
10. The Benson marine boiler
The Benson boiler also proves itself as a marine boiler. Ariser/downcomer system is implemented for the first time
aboard the MV Uckermark in 1929; this will remain the
preferred evaporator design up to the early '60s.
In addition to the 20 units for commercial vessels in the
reference list with an overall steam output of 192 kg/s ([23],
[26], [34], [44], [48], [50], [52], [80]) more than 60 Benson
boilers are implemented in vessels of the German Navy. The
number of Benson boilers verifiably constructed for vessels
of the German Navy (all of the boilers are oil-fired) is based
on two sources ([44], [63])
Ship Year Manu-
facturerSteam
output
t/hPress.
barTemp.
°CRef.
Destroyer Z9
Wolfg.
Zenker1934 Germania
werft6 x 35 138 450 [46],
[66]
Destroyer
Z10  Hans
Lody1934 Germania
werft6 x 35 138 450 [46],
[66]
Destroyer
Z11 Bernd
von Arnim1935 Germania
werft6 x 35 138 450 [46],
[66]
Destroyer
Z12  Erich
Giese1935 Germania
werft6 x 35 138 450 [46],
[66]
Destroyer
Z13  Erich
Koellner1935 Germania
werft6 x 35 138 450 [46],
[66]
Destroyer
Z14
Friedrich Ihn1935 Blohm
+Voss6 x 35 138 450 [46],
[66]
Destroyer
Z15  Erich
Steinbrinck1935 Blohm
+Voss6 x 35 138 450 [46],
[66]
Destroyer
Z16
Friedrich
Eckoldt1935 Blohm
+Voss6 x 35 138 450 [46],
[66]
Escort F7 1934 Blohm
+Voss2
boilers[46],
[66]
F7 class
escorts
(add.)1934 Blohm
+Voss4 x 2
boilers
*)[46]
Escort F8 1934 Blohm
+Voss2
boilers[46],
[66]
Escort G1 1941 unknown 3
boilers28 [66]
Total 55 or 63 boilers *)
*) There is a discrepancy here between [46] und [66]:
According to Franzen [46], six vessels of the F7 class are
equipped with Benson boilers; according to Gröner [66]
there are only two.
1911. Competition for the Benson boiler
The Sulzer boiler
Sulzer evidently follows the development activities of
Siemens, especially with regard to feedwater quality issues,
and appears in public with a test boiler in 1929. This boiler
differs from the Benson boiler in a key characteristic. It is
equipped with a separator or water collecting vessel
downstream of the evaporator, in which approx. 5% of the
evaporator flow is blown down as water with a high salt
content, as in a drum boiler. The Sulzer boiler thus loses two
significant operating advantages of the Benson boiler.
Because of the fixed evaporation end point, HP steam
temperature is a function of the load, fuel, excess air and
fouling condition of the heat exchange surfaces.
Furthermore, operation is only possible at subcritical
pressures. A second difference lies in the throttle valves at
the inlet to the evaporator tubes to balance the throughput
through the individual parallel tubes. Because the test boiler
has only one evaporator tube, Sulzer henceforth uses the
term "monotube boiler".
The two boiler types differ in design of the furnace tubing
up to the early '60s: In the Benson boiler, the
riser/downcomer system is used, with meandering coil
tubing in individual cases, while Sulzer uses only
meandering coil tubing.
The Sulzer boiler becomes the main competitor for the
Benson boiler. Initial licensees in Germany are KSG
(Kohlenscheidungsgesellschaft GmbH) and Buckau R. Wolf,
which becomes Walther & Cie. in connection with the
acquisition of EVT (Energie- und Verfahrenstechnik GmbH)
in 1975. These are followed later by Benson licensee MAN.
A comparison shows that Siemens always maintains a
technological lead in the area of the once-through boiler:
In 1975, Veba Kraftwerke Ruhr AG forces boiler supplier EVT
to abandon the Sulzer principle of a fixed evaporation
endpoint for the 740 MW Scholven F boiler and to adopt the
Benson principle of a variable evaporation endpoint. With
this decision, the Sulzer principle also quickly loses
importance for other power plant operators and is soon nolonger used. Sulzer and its licensees adopt the Benson
principle.
The Ramsin boiler
In the early '30s, an assistant from the Institute of Thermal
Engineering at the University of Moscow (whose director is
Prof. L. K. Ramsin) is employed in the Siemens Boiler
department. After his return, he later designs and
constructs the first once-through boiler in the USSR, which
is called the "Ramsin boiler". Its design data are 200 t/h,
140 atm/480 to 500 °C/400 °C.
This boiler is commented on as follows in the journal "Archiv
für Wärmewirtschaft und Dampfkesselwesen,“ Volume
9/1936:
- Th. Sauer: Advances have been made in Russian boiler
design in recent years. This can be seen from the example
of a special boiler constructed based on German
development work.
- Siemens: ... the design is equivalent to that of the Benson
boiler, which has apparently served as an example.
The UP boiler
The Universal Pressure boiler (UP boiler) from American
Benson licensee Babcock & Wilcox Comp. is based on the
original concept of Mark Benson for steam generation at
supercritical pressure. However, in this case the supercritical
pressure is chosen to prevent stratification at the entrance
to the heat exchange surfaces in the three stages of the
riser/downcomer system. The first UP boiler is constructed
after conclusion of the Benson license agreement in 1954 in
Breed power plant, USA. It represents a milestone in boiler
development with its gas-tight welded enclosure walls.
In the '60s and '70s, the market for fossil-fired power plants
develops rapidly in the USA; over 50% are ordered as
supercritical units with once-through boilers. Unit size
grows so quickly that it is not possible to account for
operating results in each successively larger unit size. The
result is a drastic drop in availability of the supercritical
units. This is exacerbated by the advance of nuclear power;
fossil-fired power plants are relegated to the intermediate
load range. The importance of the UP boiler declines for this
reason as well, since it is poorly suited to sliding-pressureYear Benson boiler Year Sulzer boiler
Pilot plant 1924 Rugby 1929 Sulzer
1st industrial boiler 1926 Berlin-Gartenfeld 1931 C. Weber
1st boiler > 100 t/h 1929 Langerbrügge 1938 Mannheim
1st gas-tight welded
    spiral tubing1963 Rhodiaceta 1966 Vaesteras
Thermoelastic startup system with separate
separators1964 Badalona II 1975 Bremen
Number of boilers constructed
 (status 1995)977 ≈ 320 *)
*) The Sulzer reference list also includes more than 120 controlled circulation or combined circulation boilers that do not
fulfill the criterion of a once-through boiler
20operation. The last UP boiler is constructed in 1985 in
Zimmer power plant, USA.
Babcock & Wilcox Comp. and its UP licensees Babcock Power
Ltd. and Babcock-Hitachi K.K. have constructed a total of
171 UP boilers, including the world's largest boiler in
Cumberland power plant, USA with an output von 4,540 t/h.
The combined circulation boiler
The combined circulation boiler from Combustion
Engineering Inc. is marketed as a combination of a forced
circulation and once-through boiler, but in principle it is a
supercritical forced circulation boiler. The licensee in Japan
is Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. The combined circulation
boiler is no longer constructed for the same reasons as the
UP boiler.
The multi-pass boiler
The multi-pass boiler from Foster Wheeler Inc. is based on
the same technical concept as the UP boiler. The licensee in
Japan is Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co. Ltd. This
boiler type is also no longer constructed for the
aforementioned reasons.
12. License revenues
Only general data can be accessed for license income and
expenditures up to the 1949/1950 fiscal year:
 Up to 1933, license fees totaling Sfr. 250,000 are offset by
development costs in the amount of Sfr. 3,750,000. Approx.
DM 3,500,000 are also used for construction of the Benson
boiler in a power plant (probably Berlin-Gartenfeld).
 As a result of royalty payments received up to late 1944,
the negative balance of the Benson account is reduced from
2,500,000 to 750,000 Reichsmark.
License fees are paid again starting from the 1949/1950
fiscal year. However, the balance of the Benson account
remains negative until the mid '50s. Only after this does the
Benson license begin to be a financial success for Siemens.
However, the business result is always positive with the
exception of two fiscal years in which construction of the
second Benson test rig must be financed. This is further
supplemented by orders for power plants and power plant
components that Siemens receives due to its boiler
expertise. However, these are not quantifiable.
13 Key persons
The following persons were or are active in responsible
positions for the Benson license at Siemens over the past
more than 90 years:
Karl Köttgen: General manager, takes the
decision to build Benson boilers
Hans Gleichmann Head of Steam department AZ7
from the start of Benson boiler
activities in 1923 up to 1944
Martin Eule Head of design in the Boiler
department from the start of
Benson boiler activities in 1923
until the '50s(?)
Heinz Rabe Head of heat engineering analysis
in the Boiler department from thestart of Benson boiler activities in
1923 up to 1942(?)
Rupprecht Michel 1948 – 1973: Initially head of the
Boiler department later division
head for all mechanical
engineering
Elmar Kefer 1968 – 1973: Head of the Boiler
department, died in 1973 at the
age of 48
Eberhard Wittchow 1974 – 1995: Head of the Boiler
department, later of the central
Engineering department for
conventional plants, consultant for
steam power plants from 1995.
Responsible for the Benson license
over the entire period
Georg Lösel 1974 – 1984: Head of the Benson
boiler development department
and licenses
Joachim Franke from 1989: Initially consultant for
Benson boilers, from 1995 head of
the central department for
conventional boilers, from 2001
senior consultant for Benson
boilers
Rudolf Kral from1996, consultant for Benson
boilers
Jan Brückner from 2010, responsible for the
Benson license and technical
development of the Benson heat
recovery steam generator as
principle expert in Benson
technology
Martin Effert from 2010, head of the Benson
engineering department, which is
continued as a process
engineering group in global
engineering from 2017.
Heads of the Benson test rig:
Karl-Rudolph Schmidt: in the '50s and '60s
Dietmar Hein: 1974 – 1982 (construction of the
2nd Benson test rig)
Bernhard Brand: 1982 – 1989
Wolfgang Kastner: 1989 – 2001
Holger Schmidt: from 2001
Wolfgang Köhler: Advisor for the Benson test rig to
1999
Oliver Herbst: Advisor for the Benson test rig
from 1999
Responsible for the Benson license in the Patent and Legal
department:
Mr. Weller, Mr. Feist, Burghard v. Alvensleben, Peter Knorr,
Thomas Bühlmeyer, Dr. Thomas Roth, Michael Schmid
2114. Status of the Benson license in 2018
The interest of boiler manufacturers around the world in the Benson license remains unchanged.
This is based on use of the Siemens patents but also on its expertise. The current Benson license agreements extend in
part up to 2030 (fossil-fired Benson boilers) or to 2023 (Benson heat recovery steam generators).
The following manufacturers currently have a license for fossil-fired Benson boilers:
AC Boilers S.p.A. Italy
      Ansaldo Caldaie Boilers India Pvt. Ltd. India
Babcock & Wilcox Power Generation Group *1USA
      Thermax Babcock & Wilcox Energy Solutions Pvt.  Ltd. India
Dongfang Boiler Group Co. Ltd. China
Doosan Babcock Ltd. Great Britain
      Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co. Ltd. Korea
      Harbin Boiler Co. Ltd. China
Sumitomo SHI FW Finland
BHI FW Corporation USA
      Shanghai Boiler Works Co. Ltd. China
      BHI Co. Ltd. Korea
      ISGEC Heavy Engineering Ltd. India
Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Europe GmbH Germany
      BGR Boilers Pvt. Ltd. India
Rafako S.A. Poland
Riley Power Inc. USA
Shanghai Boiler Works Co. Ltd. *2China
PJSC TKZ "Krasny Kotelshchik" Russia
Direct license
      Sublicense
1: Main license ended, sublicense in force
2: Limited to CFB boilers
The following manufacturers currently have a license for Benson heat recovery steam generators:
AC Boilers S.p.A. Italy
CMI SA Belgium
Amec Foster Wheeler Energía S.L.U. Spain
IHI Corporation Japan
Innovative Steam Technologies Canada
NEM Energy b.v. Netherlands
      GS Entec Corp. Korea
Nooter/Eriksen Inc. USA
Hansol SeenTec Co. Ltd. Korea
S&T Corporation Korea
Vogt Power International Inc. USA
Direct license
      Sublicense
15 Reference lists
The reference lists for fired Benson boilers as well as for Benson heat recovery steam generators are updated once a year.
They are available for download in the internet on the homepage of the Benson license and Benson technology:
http://www.siemens.com/benson
2216 Steam capacity fired Benson boiler orders
YearSteam capacity per
year (kg/s)Accumulated steam
capacity (kg/s)
1926 20,00 20,00
1927 0,00 20,00
1928 0,00 20,00
1929 41,39 61,39
1930 0,00 61,39
1931 0,00 61,39
1932 0,00 61,39
1933 27,78 89,17
1934 0,00 89,17
1935 116,66 205,83
1936 165,28 371,11
1937 546,39 917,50
1938 611,78 1.529,28
1939 581,94 2.111,22
1940 123,89 2.235,11
1941 305,56 2.540,67
1942 17,50 2.558,17
1943 322,22 2.880,39
1944 0,00 2.880,39
1945 0,00 2.880,39
1946 0,00 2.880,39
1947 41,47 2.922,06
1948 88,89 3.010,94
1949 355,56 3.366,50
1950 80,00 3.446,50
1951 50,00 3.496,50
1952 395,28 3.891,78
1953 416,67 4.308,44
1954 1.536,94 5.845,39
1955 641,39 6.486,78
1956 2.458,33 8.945,11
1957 1.504,72 10.449,83
1958 1.957,22 12.407,06
1959 3.174,17 15.581,22
1960 4.359,72 19.940,94
1961 3.266,50 23.207,44
1962 6.033,89 29.241,33
1963 9.638,06 38.879,39
1964 7.815,56 46.694,94
1965 7.971,11 54.666,06
1966 8.473,33 63.139,39
1967 13.672,50 76.811,89
1968 15.772,50 92.584,39
1969 10.591,39 103.175,78
1970 7.549,67 110.725,441971 18.165,44 128.890,89
1972 8.101,94 136.992,83
1973 5.869,22 142.862,06
1974 3.036,22 145.898,28
1975 7.140,67 153.038,94
1976 5.608,61 158.647,56
1977 7.554,50 166.202,06
1978 729,44 166.931,50
1979 6.323,00 173.254,50
1980 1.902,50 175.157,00
1981 6.682,78 181.839,78
1982 1.953,06 183.792,83
1983 4.992,78 188.785,61
1984 2.821,89 191.607,50
1985 1.768,00 193.375,50
1986 1.657,00 195.032,50
1987 1.607,83 196.640,33
1988 899,94 197.540,28
1989 533,89 198.074,17
1990 416,94 198.491,11
1991 1.805,00 200.296,11
1992 2.926,94 203.223,06
1993 1.746,11 204.969,17
1994 2.864,89 207.834,06
1995 663,00 208.497,06
1996 833,00 209.330,06
1997 582 209.912,06
1998 834,00 210.746,06
1999 2.368,60 213.114,66
2000 2.054,00 215.168,66
2001 403,00 215.571,66
2002 1056,00 216.627,66
2003 27874,00 244.501,66
2004 14085,80 258.587,46
2005 10963,60 269551,06
2006 9776,80 279.327,86
2007 12951,30 292.279,16
2008 14001,40 306.280,56
2009 13699,92 319.980,48
2010 18482,66 338.463,14
2011 10172,00 348.635,14
2012 20324,00 368.959,14
2013 10288,80 379.247,94
2014 16805,17 396.053,11
2015 11349,10 407.402,21
2016 2879,10 410.281,31
2017 7570,60 417.851,91
2317 Sources and additional literature
[1]  Patentschrift Nr. 419766: Verfahren zur
Erzeugung von gebrauchsfertigem Arbeitsdampf
von beliebigem Druck
[2]  Reuleaux, F.: Der Konstrukteur, ein Handbuch zum
Gebrauch beim Maschinen-Entwerfen, Verlag von
Friedrich Vieweg und Sohn, 1882 - 1889
[3]  Unbekannter Verfasser eines Buches; Kapitel 4:
Der Benson-Kessel
[4]  Abendroth, W.: Dampfkraftanlage mit Benson-
Kessel im Kraftwerk der Siemens-Schuckertwerke,
VDI, Band 71 (1927), Seite 59
[5]  Eule, M.: Der Benson-Dampfprozeß im
Schiffsbetrieb, Jahrbuch des Schiffbautechnischen
Gesellschaft e. V., Band 29 (1928)
[6]  Gleichmann, H.: Aufbau von Höchstdruckanlagen
für Großkraftwerke unter besonderer
Berücksichtigung des Benson-Verfahrens, VDEW-
Sonderdruck der 36. Hauptversammlung in Wien
1928
[7]  Gleichmann, H.: Das Benson-Verfahren zur
Erzeugung höchstgespannten Dampfes, VDI, Band
72 (1928), Seite 94
[8]  Gleichmann, H.: Das Heizkraftwerk mit Benson-
Kessel im Kabelwerk Gartenfeld der SSW,
Siemens-Zeitschrift, Band 8 (1928), Seite 179
[9]  Gleichmann, H.: Weiterentwicklung des Benson-
Verfahrens, VDI, Band 72 (1928), Seite 168
[10]  Rabe, H.: Die Erzeugung und Verwertung von
Höchstdruckdampf nach dem Benson-Verfahren,
Naturwissenschaft, 1928, Band 16
[11]  Josse, E.: Untersuchungen am Bensonkessel der
TH Berlin, VDI, Band 73 (1929), Seite 1815
[12]  Goos, E.: Die Höchstdruckanlage auf dem
Dampfer „Uckermark“, VDI, Band 75 (1931), Seite
1433
[13]  Frahm, H.: Bericht über einen absichtlich
herbeigeführten Salzeinbruch in das Speisewasser
der Benson-Kesselanlage des Dampfers
Uckermark, Werft-Reederei-Hafen, 13. Jahrgang
(1932), Seite 131
[14]  Frahm, H.: Die Verwendung von
Höchstdruckkesseln im Schiffsbetrieb mit
besonderer Berücksichtigung des Benson-Kessels,
Jahrbuch der Schiffbautechnischen Gesellschaft e.
V., Band 33 (1932), Seite 77
[15]  Goos, E.: Betrieb und Ergebnisse des Benson-
Kessels auf D. „Uckermark“, Jahrbuch des
Schiffbautechnischen Gesellschaft e. V., Band 33
(1932)
[16]  Gleichmann, H.: Die Entwicklung des
Zwanglaufröhren- bzw. Bensonkessels in
Vergangenheit und Zukunft, Siemens-Zeitschrift,
Band 13 (1933), Seite 99[17]  Gleichmann, H.: Die Entwicklung des
Zwanglaufröhren-Bensonkessels, Die Wärme, 56.
Jahrgang (1933), Nr. 28; Seite 495
[18]  Gleichmann, H.: Neues vom Benson-Kessel, Archiv
für Wärmewirtschaft und Dampfkesselwesen,
Band 14 (1933), Seite 795
[19]  Herry, L., Josse, E.: Die Benson-Hochdruckanlage
im Kraftwerk Langerbrügge, VDI, Band 77 (1933),
Seite 679
[20]  Monteil, C.: La Chaudière Benson à 225 kg/cm² de
la Centrale Langerbrugge (Belgique), Génie Civil,
53. Jahrgang (1933), Seite 562
[21]  Herry, L.: La Chaudière à très haute Pression, de la
Centrale Langerbrugge (Belgique), Génie Civil,
53. Jahrgang (1933), Seite 581
[22]  Rabe, H.: Die weitere Entwicklung des Benson-
kessels, Naturwissenschaft, 1933, Seite 795
[23]  Bleiken, B.: Ostasien-Schnelldampfer Potsdam,
maschinentechnische Einrichtungen, VDI, Band
79 (1935), Nr. 2, Seite 969
[24]  Gleichmann, H.: Die Entwicklung des Benson-
Dampferzeugungsverfahrens, Stahl und Eisen, 55.
Jahrgang (1935), Seite 930
[25]  Lent, H.: Die Anwendung des Hochdruckdampfes
im Berg- und Hüttenwesen, Technische
Mitteilungen, 28. Jahrgang (1935), Seite 353
[26]  Siemens-Werbeschrift Mitte der 30er Jahre,
enthalten in der internen Dokumentation der
Dürrwerke AG „Bensonkessel von den Dürrwerken
AG 1934 – 1990“, siehe auch [94]
[27]  Michel, F.: Das Festhalten der
Restverdampfungszone beim Bensonkessel,
Archiv für Wärmewirtschaft und
Dampfkesselwesen, Band 17 (1936), Seite 209
[28]  Rabe, H.: Dampfumformer, Die Wärme, 59.
Jahrgang (1936), Heft 36, Seite 581
[29]  Sauer, T.: Der erste Zwanglauf-Höchstdruckkessel
Bauart Ramsin, Archiv für Wärmewirtschaft und
Dampfkesselwesen, Band 17 (1936), Heft 9, Seite
235
[30]  Sütterlin, B.: Benson-Kessel in der Seeschiffahrt,
Reichsgemeinschaft der Technisch-
Wissenschaftlichen Arbeit (RTA), Nr. 26 (1937),
Seite 5
[31]  Lent, H.: Erfahrungen beim Bau und Betrieb der
Hochdruckanlage Scholven, VDI, Band 81 (1938),
Heft 38
[32]  Verschiedene Autoren: Betriebserfahrungen mit
Hochdruckkesseln, Technische Mitteilungen, 31.
Jahrgang (1938), Heft 24, Seite 552
[33]  Splittgerber, A.: Über das Versalzen und
Verkieseln von Überhitzern und Turbinen durch
Kesselsalze und Abhilfemaßnahmen, Technische
Mitteilungen, 31. Jahrgang (1938), Heft 24, Seite
590
24[34]  Eichler, A.: Bewährung des Marine-Bensonkessels,
Mitteilungen der VGB, Heft 72 (1939)
[35]  Föttinger, H.: Strömung in Dampfkesselanlagen,
Mitteilungen der VGB, Heft 73 (1939), Seite 151
[36]  Kleinhans, A.: Stabilität der Strömungsverteilung
in Heizflächen mit Zwangdurchlauf, Archiv für
Wärmewirtschaft und Dampfkesselwesen, Band
20 (1939), Heft 5, Seite 135
[37]  Michel, F.: Die Dampftrommel beim Bensonkessel,
VDI, Band 84 (1940), Nr. 16
[38]  Michel, F.: Neuerungen am Benson-Kessel, Archiv
für Wärmewirtschaft und Dampfkesselwesen,
Band 21 (1940), Seite 5
[39]  Stegemann: Erfahrungen an einer
Zwangdurchlauf-Kesselanlage, Mitteilungen der
VGB, Heft 77 (1940), Seite 42
[40]  Michel, R.: Die Anwendung des Bensonkessels im
Bergbau, Elektrizität im Bergbau, (1941), Heft 4
[41]  Rabe, H.: Einige Sonderfragen an den Betrieb von
Bensonkesseln, Archiv für Wärmewirtschaft und
Dampfkesselwesen, Band 23 (1942), Heft 10,
Seite 217
[42]  Michel, R.: Die Speicherfähigkeit des Bensonkes-
sels. Archiv für Wärmewirtschaft und
Dampfkesselwesen, Band 24 (1943), Heft 3
[43]  Michel, R.: Die günstigste
Speisewassertemperatur für
Kondensationskraftwerke, Archiv für
Wärmewirtschaft und Dampfkesselwesen, B. 24
(1943), H. 11, Seite 205
[44]  Rabe, H.: Interner Siemens-Bericht
„Hochdruckdampf“, 1943
[45]  Stegemann: Höchstdruckkraftwerk Osthannover,
VDI, Band 90 (1948), Heft 6
[46]  Franzen, C. W.: Betriebserfahrungen mit
Hochdruck-Dampferzeugern auf Schiffen,
Brennstoff-Wärme-Kraft, Band 1 (1949), Nr.7
[47]  25 Jahre Bensonkessel 1927 - 1952, Entwicklung
und heutiger Stand der Technik, Siemens-
Sonderdruck
[48]  Hoffbauer, E.: Rohrschäden an Hochdruck-
Schiffskesseln, Mitteilungen der VGB, Heft 19
(1952)
[49]  Rabe, H.: Der Entwicklungsstand des
Bensonkessels, Brennstoff-Wärme-Kraft, Band 4
(1952), Heft 10, Seite 332
[50]  Siemens-Druckschrift „25 Jahre Bensonkessel
(1927 – 1952)“
[51]  Rowand, W. H.: Developing the First Commercial
Supercritical-Pressure Steam Generator, Power,
September 1954; Seite 73
[52]  Michel, R.: Der Bensonkessel als Dampferzeuger
für höchste Drücke und Leistungen, Energie, 8.
Jahrgang (1956) Heft 6, Seite 193[53]  Eule, M.: Die Entwicklung des Bensonkessels bei
den Siemens-Schuckertwerken und die dabei
gemachten Erfahrungen, Siemens-interner
Bericht (1958)
[54]  Heitmann, H. G.: Chemische Reinigung von
Bensonkesseln, Mitteilungen der VGB, Heft 62
(1959), Seite 319
[55]  Schmidt, K. R.: Wärmetechnische Untersuchungen
an hochbelasteten Heizflächen, Mitteilungen der
VGB, Heft 63 (1959), Seite 391
[56]  Siemens-Druckschrift (Wrba, P.): Bensonkessel –
Dampferzeugung im einmaligen Durchlauf, 1962
[57]  Michel, R.: Probleme des Durchlaufkessels unter
besonderer Berücksichtigung des
strömungstechnischen Verhaltens, Mitteilungen
der VGB, Heft 63 (1959), Seite 402
[58]  Dorfmann, H.: Betrieb mit Bensonkesseln, Dürr-
Mitteilungen, Heft 17, Dezember 1962
[59]  Michel, R.: Gegenwärtiger Stand des
Bensonkessels, Energie, Jahrgang 15, 1963, Heft
5, Seite 190
[60]  Oyama, T., Okinawa, K.: Der erste Bensonkessel in
der öffentlichen Stromversorgung Japans,
Brennstoff-Wärme-Kraft, Band 16 (1964), Heft
10, Seite 511
[61]  Aktennotizen über die Verhandlungen mit BSPC
vom 19.10.1964, 15.12.1964 und 20.10.1965
[62]  Schröder, K.: Große Dampfkraftwerke, Band 1
Kraftwerksatlas, Seite 80 bis 85, Springer-Verlag,
1965
[63]  Schröder, K.: Große Dampfkraftwerke, Band 1
Kraftwerksatlas, Seite 690 bis 780, Springer-
Verlag, 1965
[64]  Schröder, K.: Große Dampfkraftwerke, Band 1
Kraftwerksatlas, Seite 90 bis 93, Springer-Verlag,
1965
[65]  Goebel, K.: Gasturbinen-Dampfkraftwerk Hohe
Wand, Siemens-Zeitschrift 1966, Seite 102
[66]  Gröner, E.: Die deutschen Kriegsschiffe 1815 –
1945, Band 1, J. F. Lehmanns Verlag München,
1966, Seiten 208, 209, 258 und 259
[67]  Pauli, H.: Lastabschaltversuche bei Blockeinheiten
mit Bensonkesseln, Brennstoff-Wärme-Kraft, Band
18 (1966), Heft 9, Seite 453
[68]  Dziembowski von, H., Pahlke: Der 320-MW-Block
Kraftwerk Farge der NWK, Energiewirtschaftliche
Tagesfragen, 1968, Heft 10
[69]  Miller, C., Waldmann, J.: Eignung eines
Zwangdurchlauf-Braunkohlen-Dampferzeugers
für Gleitdruck/Gleittemperaturverfahren,
Brennstoff-Wärme-Kraft, Band 21 ( (1969), Heft
6, Seite 305
25[70]  Rziha, H.: Das Dampfkraftwerk Badalona der
FECSA/Spanien, Siemens-Zeitschrift, 43. Jahrgang
(1969), Heft 5
[71]  Wittchow, E.: Anfahrsysteme für Bensonkessel,
Mitteilungen der VGB 49 (1969), Heft 5, Seite 319
[72]  Adrian, F.: Hochaufgeladene Dampferzeuger,
Energie und Technik, 1970, H. 8
[73]  Bund, Henney, Krieb: Kombiniertes Gas/Dampf-
Turbinen-Kraftwerk mit Steinkohlen-
Druckvergasung im KW Kellermann Lünen,
Brennstoff-Wärme-Kraft 23 (1971), Heft 6
[74]  Brückner, H., Wittchow, E.: Kombinierte Dampf-
Gasturbinen-Prozesse – Einfluss auf Auslegung
und Betrieb der Dampferzeuger, Energie und
Technik 24 (1972), Heft 5, Seite 172
[75]  Komo, G.: Planung der Kesselanlagen der 600-
MW-Blöcke des Kraftwerkes Niederaußem,
Braunkohle (1972), Heft 4, Seite 118
[76]  Michel, R.: Gesichtspunkte bei der Planung und
dem Bau großer Braunkohleblöcke, Braunkohle
(1973), Heft 5
[77]  Kahlert, W.: Erfahrung beim Bau und bei der
Inbetriebnahme von 6 zeichnungs-gleichen
Kombiblöcken, Mitteilungen der VGB 54(1974),
Heft 8, Seite 537
[78]  Spalthoff, F., J.: Die 600-MW-Blöcke der
Rheinisch-Westfälischen Elektrizitätswerke AG,
VGB Kraftwerkstechnik, Band 55 (1975), Heft 11,
Seite 708
[79]  Haller, K. H.: Design of large coal fired steam
generators, Energy Systems Technical Sales
Seminar, Dubrovnik, 1976
[80]  Michel, R.: Leistungen des Hauses Siemens,
Siemens-Archiv 1976
[81]  Komo, G.: Errichtung und Betriebsergebnisse der
600-MW-Braunkohlekessel des RWE, Braunkohle
(1977), Heft 10, Seite 403
[82]  Hein, D., Wittchow, E.: Die BENSON-
Versuchsstrecke – Aufbau und Beispiele für den
Einsatz, Jahrbuch der Dampferzeugertechnik, 4.
Ausgabe 1980/81, Vulkan-Verlag Essen, Seite 246
[83]  Hein, D., Wittchow, E.: Forschung und
Entwicklung auf dem Gebiet des BENSON-
Dampferzeugers, Jahrbuch der
Dampferzeugertechnik, 4. Ausgabe 1980/81,
Vulkan-Verlag Essen, Seite 218
[84]  Matzerath, G., Wöhler, C., H.: Dampferzeuger für
den Block 3 des Gemeinschaftskraftwerkes
Mehrum, Jahrbuch der Dampferzeugertechnik, 4.Ausgabe 1980/81, Vulkan-Verlag Essen, Seite 287
[85]  Wittchow, E.: Trommelkessel oder
Durchlaufkessel: Einfluss des Verdampfersystems
auf die Auslegung und das Betriebsverhalten der
Anlage, VGB Kraftwerkstechnik 62 (1982), Heft 5,
Seite 346
[86]  Bald, A., Wittchow, E., Charlier, C.:
Steinkohlebefeuerte Kraftwerke – Heutiger Stand
und zukünftige Möglichkeiten der Auslegung,
VGB Kraftwerkstechnik 63 (1983), Heft 1, Seite 7
[87]  Breucker, H., Stadie, L.: Steinkohlebefeuerte
Dampferzeuger für Kraftwerke mit hohen
Dampfzuständen, VGB Kraftwerkstechnik 63,
1983, Heft 1, Seite 29
[88]  Franke, J., Wittchow, E., Lausterer, G. K.: Das
Dampferzeuger-Dynamikmodell der KWU und sein
Einsatz in Planung und Betrieb von fossilbeheizten
Kraftwerken, VGB Kraftwerkstechnik 64 (1984),
Heft 7
[89]  Langner, H., Wein, W., Hell, E.: Zirkulierende atm.
Wirbelschichtfeuerung, Jahrbuch der
Dampferzeugertechnik, 5. Ausgabe 1985/86,
Vulkan-Verlag Essen, Seite 396
[90]  Wittchow, E.: Stand und Entwicklung von
Dampferzeugern und Feuerungsanlagen,
Technische Mitteilungen 78 (1985), Heft 10, Seite
479
[91]  Kraftwerk Wilhelmshaven, Handbuchreihe
Energie Band 6, Fossil beheizte Kraftwerke,
Technischer Verlag Resch 1986, Seite 546
[92]  Modellkraftwerk Völklingen, Handbuchreihe
Energie Band 6, Fossil beheizte Kraftwerke,
Technischer Verlag Resch 1986, Seite 606
[93]  Kraftwerk Niederaußem (Blöcke G und H),
Handbuchreihe Energie Band 6, Fossil beheizte
Kraftwerke, Technischer Verlag Resch 1986, Seite
630
[94]  Kefer, V., Köhler, W., Wittchow, E.:
Wärmeübergang und Druckverlust in
Dampferzeugerrohren: Forschung und
Anwendung, VGB Kraftwerkstechnik 70 (1990),
Heft 10, Seite 827
[95]  Köhler, W., Kefer, V., Kastner, W.: Heat Transfer in
Vertical and Horizontal One-Side-Heated
Evaporator Tubes, Experimental Heat Transfer 3
(1990) pp. 397
[96]  Brummel, H.-G., Franke, J., Wittchow, E.:
Besonderheiten der wärmetechnischen
Berechnung von Abhitzedampferzeugern, VGB
Kraftwerkstechnik 72 (1992), Heft 1, Seite 28
26[97]  Franke, J., Wittchow, E.: The BENSON Boiler – A
Key Component for Modern Coal-Fired Power
Plants, 9th CEPSI Conf., Hongkong, 1992
[98]  Franke, J., Köhler, W., Wittchow, E.:
Verdampferkonzepte für Benson-Dampferzeuger –
Heutiger Stand und neue Entwicklungen, VGB
Kraftwerkstechnik 73 (1993), Heft 4, Seite 352
[99]  Kral, R., Schröder, S., Zipfel, Th.: Versuche mit
einem senkrecht berohrten BENSON-Verdampfer
in einem 160-t/h-Dampferzeuger, VGB
Kraftwerkstechnik 73 (1993), Heft 9, Seite 793
[100]  Interne Zusammenstellung von Dokumenten
„Bensonkessel von den Dürrwerken AG 1934 –
1990“, Balcke-Dürr Aktiengesellschaft, Oktober
1994
[101]  Franke, J., Cossmann, R., Huschauer, H.: BENSON-
Dampferzeuger mit senkrecht berohrter
Brennkammer, VGB Kraftwerkstechnik 75 (1995),
Heft 4, S. 353
[102]  Franke, J., Kral, R.: Operational Aspects and
Performance of a Benson Boiler With Vertical
Evaporator Tubing, POWER-GEN Europe 1995,
Amsterdam
[103]  Wittchow, E.: Weiterentwicklung des BENSON-
Dampferzeugers, VDI- Berichte Nr. 1182,1995
[104]  Klein, M., Kral, R., Wittchow, E.: BENSON Boilers –
Experience in Nearly 1000 Plants and Innovative
Design Promise Continuing Success, Siemens
Power Journal 1/1996
[105]  Lehmann, L., Klein, M., Wittchow, E.: Der Block 4
im Kraftwerk Heyden – Referenzanlage für
moderne 1000-MW-Steinkohle-Kraftwerke, VGB
Kraftwerkstechnik 76 (1996), Heft 2, Seite 85
[106]  Franke, J., Schnabel, F., Wittchow, E.:
Materialschonender Betrieb von Dampferzeugern,
VGB Kraftwerkstechnik 77 (1997), Heft 2, Seite
104
[107]  Franke, J., Wittchow, E.: Why will BENSON Boilers
Replace Drum Boilers in Coal-Fired Power Plants
Worldwide, POWER-GEN Asia 1997, Singapore
[108]  Franke, J., Kral, R.: Simply Better – The new
BENSON Boiler with its straightforward design,
Siemens Power Journal 4/1998
[109]  Griem, H., Köhler, W., Schmidt, H.:
Wärmeübergang, Druckverlust und Spannungen
in Verdampferwänden – Vom Experiment zur
Auslegung, VGB Kraftwerkstechnik 79 (1999),
Heft 1, Seite 30
[110]  Franke, J., Kral, R., Wittchow, E.: Dampferzeuger
für die nächste Kraftwerksgeneration -Gesichtspunkte zur Auslegung und zum
Betriebsverhalten, VGB Kraftwerkstechnik 79
(1999), Heft 9, Seite 40
[111]  Franke, J., Kral, R.: Innovative Boiler Design to
Reduce Capital Cost and Construction Time,
POWER-GEN Asia 2000, Bangkok
[112]  Franke, J., Lenk, U., Taud, R., Klauke, F.:
Innovative Heat-Recovery Steam Generator for
Advanced Combined-Cycle Power Plants, POWER-
GEN Europe 2000, Helsinki
[113]  Kastner, W., Köhler, W., Schmidt, H.: 25 Jahre
Betrieb einer Hochdruck-Versuchsanlage, VGB
Kraftwerkstechnik 80 (2000), Heft 6, Seite 45
[114]  Schmidt, H., Kastner, W.,Köhler, W.: The Power
Industry's View of Past, Present and Future Two-
Phase Flow Testing, Heat Transfer Engineering 21
(2000), No. 4, pp. 5
[115]  Smith, D.: Horizontal Boilers Make 700°C Steam
Economic, Modern Power Systems, May 2000
[116]  Welford, G.: Vertical Tubes Improve Supercritical
Systems, Modern Power Systems, May 2000
[117]  Franke, J., Lenk, U., Taud, R., Klauke, F.: Advanced
Benson HRSG makes a successful debut, Modern
Power Systems, July 2000
[118]  Siemens-Druckschrift (Wittchow, E.): BENSON
Boilers for Maximum Cost-Effectiveness in Power
Plants, 2000
[119]  Franke, J., Kral, R.: BENSON Boiler - Best Choice,
Siemens Power Journal Online, October 2001
[120]  Alf, M., Boeuf, F., Haberberger,G., KraI, R.,
Luegmair, H.: Technical and Economic
Comparison of Steam Power Plant Concepts Based
an Different Steam Parameters, POWER-GEN
Europe 2002, Mailand
[121]  Bundle, B.: World First for Yaomeng with Vertical-
Tube Low-Mass-Flow Benson Unit, Modern Power
Systems, July 2002
[122]  Franke, J.: The Benson Boiler Turns 75, Siemens
Power Journal Online, May 2002
[123]  Gould, G., Huff, D., Halil, R.: Merits of
Supercritical Steam Generation, POWER-GEN
International, 2002
[124]  Welford, G. B., Read, A., Effert, M., Ghiribelli, L.,
Toste ,J. L.: Innovative Supercritical Boilers for
Near Term Global Markets, POWER-GEN Europe
2002, Mailand
27[125]  Franke, J., Kral, R.: Supercritical boiler technology
for future market conditions, Parsons Conference
2003
[126]  Lundqvist, R., KraI, R., Kinnunen, P., Myöhänen,
K.: The Advantages of a Supercritical Circulating
Fluidized Bed Boiler, POWER-GEN Europe 2003,
Düsseldorf
[127]  Siemens und Tageszeitungen: Dr. Joachim Franke:
Mit Tradition in die Zukunft - der Benson-Kessel in
modernen 700°C-Kraftwerken, 2004
[128]  Effert, Brückner: Benson low mass flux vertically-
tubed evaporators in the power market - A status
update. MPS – Modern Power Systems, April 2017
Lorem ipsum l  
 
 
 
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Generation  
Freyeslebenstraße 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany  
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens -energy.com /powergeneration  
© Siemens Energy, 2021  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which ma y un-
dergo modification in the course of further development of the prod-
ucts. The requested performance features are binding only when they 
are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product desig-
nations may be trademarks or product names of S iemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.   For the U.S. published by  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Generation  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA 
 
   