Bonds & Rating Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Bonds & Rating Bonds Rating Bonds The information contained on the following web pages is not intended for United States, Australian, Canadian or Japanese residents or for persons who are physically located in the United States, Australia, Canada or Japan. The securities may not be offered or sold in the United States of America absent registration or an exemption from registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. We do not intend to register the offering in the United States or conduct a public offering in the United States. The information contained on the following web pages may not be distributed in or inside the United States, Australia, Canada or Japan. The above legend is required by the securities laws of the United States, Australia, Canada and Japan. Please confirm that you have read it and accept its terms. I have read the above legend and accept its terms. Agree Rating Rated Entity Long-Term Rating Outlook Date of Assessment Siemens Energy AG BBB- Stable Jan. 29, 2025 Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG BBB- Stable Jan. 29, 2025 Rated Entity Short-Term Rating Outlook Date of Assessment Siemens Energy AG A-3 Stable Jan. 29, 2025 Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG A-3 Stable Jan. 29, 2025 Latest report (as of January 29, 2025) On July 2, 2020, S&P Global assigned a preliminary long-term investment grade rating of BBB with a stable outlook to Siemens Energy AG. On August 6, 2020, S&P Global assigned a preliminary long-term investment grade rating of BBB with a stable outlook to SE Global GmbH & Co. KG. After Spin-Off Completion, the preliminary long-term ratings became the long-term issuer credit ratings of Siemens Energy AG and SE Global GmbH & Co. KG. On September 20, 2021, S&P Global assigned the A-2 short-term issuer credit rating to Siemens Energy AG, as well as to Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG, which reflects the BBB long-term issuer credit rating. On March 1, 2022, S&P Global revised the outlook on Siemens Energy AG and SE Global GmbH & Co. KG to negative from stable and affirmed the BBB/A-2 long- and short-term ratings. On March 7, 2023, S&P Global affirmed the short-term and long-term BBB/A-2 rating and negative outlook for Siemens Energy AG and SE Global GmbH & Co. KG. On July 10, 2023, S&P Global lowered the long-term and short-term issuer ratings of Siemens Energy AG and SE Global GmbH & Co KG to BBB-/A-3 with a stable outlook. On November 30, 2023, S&P Global lowered the long-term and short-term issuer ratings of Siemens Energy AG and SE Global GmbH & Co KG to BBB-/A-3 with a negative outlook. On December 16, 2024, S&P Global revised their outlook to stable from negative and affirmed the 'BBB-' long-term and 'A-3' short-term ratings on Siemens Energy, its subsidiaries, and its unsecured debt. On January 29, 2025, S&P Global affirmed the short-term and long-term BBB-/A-3 rating and stable outlook for Siemens Energy AG and SE Global GmbH & Co. KG. Deutsche Version Stay in Touch Energy Transition Actions​ Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Secure supply chains Products and Services Industries Use cases Products Services Trainings Company About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Careers Supplier Contact Reporting Channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Corporate information Privacy notice Cookie notice Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025