Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , April 27, 2021  
For a greener Finland: Siemens Energy  seals 
largest order for SF 6-free gas -insulated 
switchgear  in Europe  
• Finland’s f irst SF 6-free gas -insulated switchgear will enable climate -neutral  power transmission  
• Zero global warming potential due to vacuum interrupter and clean -air insulation technology  
 
Siemens Energy has been awarded a contract to deliver ten bays of sulfur hexafluoride(SF 6)-free 
gas-insulated switchgear (GIS) to Fingrid, Finland’s t ransmission system operator. It will be the first 
GIS in Finland that replaces SF 6 as the most potent greenhouse gas in the world with “ clean air”, a 
pure mixture of nitrogen and oxygen with zero potential for global warming. It represents Siemens 
Energy’s largest order for SF 6-free high -voltage GIS in Europe to date.  
 
SF6 is a fluorinated gas (F -gas) with a potential for global warming around 23,500 times greater 
than carbon dioxide  and a life span of 3,200 years in the earth's atmosphere . However,  due to its 
unique physical properties, it is in most of the world's substations still the insulating gas of choice.  
Fingrid decided to modernize the 110 -kilovolts (kV)-switchgear in  Virkkala substation in Lohja, 
located 60 kilometers  west of Helsinki , so that it operates without any climate -harming gases . The  
GIS of type 8VN1  from Siemens Energy’s SF 6-free Blue portfolio  will ensure safe , climate -neutral,  
and reliable  power transmission  operation by using vacuum interrupters for switching and clean air  
as insulation medium , leading to an improved switching performance, simplified operation and 
maintenance while meeting highest health and safety standards . Commissioning is scheduled for 
summer 2022.  
 
“Fingrid  seeks to be a frontrunner when it comes to the replacement of SF 6 in transmission 
operations. Moderni zing the existing SF 6-insulated 110 kV switchgear in Virkkala with  a new one 
operat ing without SF 6 gas is the first step on our strategic  roadmap toward p hasing out SF 6 as 
insulating  gas. Total reduction of SF 6 gas at Virkkala substation will be 2.500 kg  equal to 57.000 
tons of CO 2. With Siemens Energy we have found a reliable partner that offers innovative products Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
with absolutely zero  climate -harming  fluorinated gases ,” said Timo Kiiveri , Senior Vice President at 
Fingrid.  
 
“We at Siemens Energy are proud that Fingrid has chosen our technology for their first SF 6-free GIS. 
With its zero global warming potential our Blue portfolio is the  most environmentally friendly 
switching technology available and will reliably support Fingrid in systematically phasing out SF 6 as 
an insulating  gas,” said Beatrix Natter, Executive Vice President Transmission at Siemens Energy.  
 
Due to its high climate -harming potential and its long atmospheric lifetime, SF6 is banned for most 
applications with exception of the electricity sector. However, a s part of the European Green Deal, 
the European Commission is currently reviewing the regulation  of fluorinated gas es. Over the last 
decade Siemens Energy has invested in the development of  chemical -free alternatives to SF 6 and as 
a result  introduced the future -proof  Blue portfolio which operates completely free of any  F-gases 
and thereby goes beyond the common safety and environmental standards. It not only emphasizes 
the green aspect of the transmission  technology , but also provides many other benefits for gas -
insulated switchgear, circuit breakers and instrument transformers . Over the  next years, Siemens 
Energy will implement their clean air technology at higher voltages as well.  
 
Siemens Energy 8VN1 Blue GIS   
Fingrid decided to modernize the 110 -kilovolts (kV)-switchgear in Virkkala substation in Lohja, 
located 60 kilometers west of H elsinki, so that it operates without any climate -harming gases using 
the GIS of type 8VN1 from Siemens Energy’s SF 6-free Blue portfolio . 

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact for journalists  
Christina Hümmer  
Telefon:  +49 152 07158923  
E-Mail:  Christina.Huemmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture are available at  
https://press.siemens -energy.com/glo bal/en/pressrelease/greener -finland -siemens -energy -seals -
largest -order -sf6-free-gas-insulated -switchgear  
For further information on Siemens Energy Blue Portfolio , please see  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -transmission/innovation/blue -high -
voltage -produ cts.html  
For further information on Siemens Energy Transmission, please see  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -transmission.html  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, t hus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conven tional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than  90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 