DECEMBER 2019A supplement to
Building Out  
The Big Plays
By Leo SimonovichKeeping  
A System Safe
Artificial intelligence and security analytics  
hold the keys to pipeline cybersecurity.
he digital revolution is 
creating transformational 
business opportunities for 
midstream oil and gas companies that 
harness the power of the Internet of 
Things (IoT) and Big Data. However, to 
safely capitalize on the benefits afforded 
by connecting operational technology 
(OT) assets, pipeline operators must be 
prepared to operate in an environment 
where cyberattacks are all but inevitable.
While no industry today is safe 
from malicious cyber activity, pipelines represent an especially attractive 
target due to their interconnected and 
distributed nature, as well as the high-
impact outcome that can arise from a 
successful attack.
In 2018, four American pipeline 
companies reported communications 
system interruptions after a 
cyberattack on a data network. 
While gas service was not 
interrupted, all four companies were 
forced to temporarily shut down 
communications with their customers.For the owners and operators of the 
more than 2.7 million miles of pipelines 
across the nation, events like these 
highlight the vulnerabilities inherent 
in midstream infrastructure. While the 
impact in this incident was relatively 
minor, other utility and energy companies 
have not been so lucky. In fact, a number 
of cyberattacks have led to millions 
of dollars in losses and potentially 
devastating near-miss safety events due to 
such viruses and malware as WannaCry, 
Havex, BlackEnergy Trojan, etc.T
Pipelines represent the true convergence 
of information technology and operational 
technology, making cybersecurity critical to 
safe operation. Graphics courtesy of Siemens Pipeline SecurityAS SEEN IN
DEC. 201 9
Pipeline SecurityCybersecurity challenges
Unlike most parts of the oil and gas 
value chain, pipelines represent the 
true convergence of information 
technology (IT) and OT, making 
cybersecurity critical to safe operation. 
However, the vast majority of midstream 
infrastructure in operation today was 
not designed with connectivity in 
mind. Digital capabilities have simply 
been bolted on top. This integration 
of the physical and digital worlds has 
made infrastructure more vulnerable to 
increasingly sophisticated cyberattacks.
T oday, the core challenge for 
protecting connected midstream assets, 
such as compressor stations, is visibility.
Operators cannot protect what they 
cannot see. Most companies are not 
aware of the threats that lie within their 
fleet, how vulnerable they are or what 
actions they should take to prevent 
attacks. One salient example occurred 
in the power sector in December 
2015, when a cyberattack in Ukraine 
caused 225,000 homes to lose power 
in the middle of winter. For the first 
few hours, the utility operator did not 
know a cyberattack was occurring. The 
operator simply thought the control 
system was malfunctioning.
Digitalization, and more specifically, 
the application of security analytics 
and artificial intelligence (AI), hold 
the key to protecting midstream 
infrastructure from cyber threats. 
However, the energy industry has 
historically been unable to apply these 
tools to identify malicious threats 
within distributed OT systems. This 
is particularly the case with pipelines, where assets are spread over millions of 
square miles of remote terrain.
In this environment, it has 
traditionally been very difficult and 
cost-prohibitive to apply and scale the 
necessary analytics and cybersecurity 
solutions across networks.
Sprints and marathons
Overall, the challenge of identifying 
and defending against cyberattacks is 
both a sprint and a marathon. As we see 
more advanced threat scenarios, we also 
see advancements in the technologies 
needed to counter them, with data 
analytics and AI leading the way.
Armed with these tools, companies 
can “own their environment” by 
significantly improving detection when 
an operation system is being attacked 
and implementing effective measures to 
ensure safety and reduce overall risk.
Siemens recognized the growing 
need for a holistic cybersecurity 
solution that could address the unique 
challenges presented by distributed 
energy infrastructure. That is why we 
partnered with Chronicle, an Alphabet 
Inc. company, to apply the power of 
analytics and AI to secure pipeline 
networks. (Alphabet owns Google). 
Through a unified approach that 
will leverage Chronicle’s Backstory 
platform and Siemens’ strength in 
industrial cybersecurity, the combined 
offering gives energy customers 
unparalleled visibility across IT and 
OT so they can quickly detect and 
confidently act on threats.
This partnership between Siemens 
and Chronicle will help the industry 
securely and cost-effectively leverage 
the cloud to store and categorize data, 
while applying analytics, AI and machine 
learning to identify patterns, anomalies 
and cyber threats within OT systems.
Chronicle’s Backstory, which is a 
global security telemetry platform 
for investigation and threat hunting, 
will be the backbone of Siemens’ 
managed service for industrial cyber 
monitoring, in both hybrid and  
cloud environments.
Backstory is designed to collect, 
integrate and store petabytes of data. 
It can conduct forensic analysis and 
investigations of behavior so that 
security analysts can identify and understand unusual activity that 
might indicate an attack is, or even 
was, underway.
Through the integration 
of analytics from 
Backstory and Siemens-
managed OT services, 
an analyst can 
trace activity 
from the OT 
network back to 
the IT network, 
identifying gaps 
and unpatched 
systems that 
represent 
pathways for 
an adversary to 
enter a network, 
establish control and 
lie dormant—waiting 
to take over and force a 
shutdown. This is achieved 
by enabling the following:
Enhanced Visibility —Visibility 
is grounded in developing a continuous 
situational awareness of what’s 
happening in the physical and digital 
worlds. T o do this, a pipeline operator 
must consume several different types of 
data—and in unfathomable volumes. 
Being able to store this amount of 
information, let alone study it for those 
key links that may identify a cyberattack, 
was once nearly impossible. But with 
Backstory, it is now a reality.
For instance, in the Ukraine example 
previously referenced, the way to identify 
an attack or system malfunction would 
have been to analyze control system 
data and then correlate it with network 
data—something that wasn’t feasible 
because operators lacked visibility into 
all systems at once. But now, looking 
at the two systems, which were never 
designed to work together, we can 
understand that the system errors are the 
result of intentional malicious activity.
Context —The second key in thwarting 
a cyberattack is context. Even after detect -
ing an attack, operators are still powerless 
to act because they cannot understand 
how the attack is impacting their systems 
or determine the attack’s reach or intent. 
This is where context matters.
A better way to think of this is pattern 
identification—how quickly and how 
accurately can we examine normal asset Most companies 
are not aware of 
the threats that lie 
within their fleet, 
how vulnerable they 
are or what actions 
they should take to 
prevent attacks.

behavior versus abnormal behavior. By 
identifying patterns in Backstory, 
Siemens’ security analysts can 
build an accurate picture 
of the environment so 
operators can act.
Quick and 
Decisive Action —
With the insight 
provided by 
Backstory, 
Siemens’ OT 
specialists can 
then work with 
customers 
to take quick 
and decisive 
action to stop the 
cyberattack and 
mitigate impacts on 
infrastructure. In most 
cases, this will not mean 
shutting down the system. 
Rather, it is about working with 
the customers to develop options that 
balance operational, safety and security 
constraints. The ultimate objective is to 
initiate a proportional and appropriate 
response and to use insights to 
continuously harden systems and protect 
them from future attacks.
This integrated solution and first-
of-its-kind OT-managed service from 
Siemens and Chronicle is a significant 
advance in raising the OT cyber defenses 
for pipelines. It leverages all that 
digitalization has to offer to unlock the 
value of security data—providing cyber 
protection across the entire midstream 
operating environment.
Industry-government collaboration
When it comes to cybersecurity in 
oil and gas, and particularly the 
midstream sector, the most important 
idea that companies must embrace 
going forward is that securing their 
environment is not something they can 
achieve on their own.
It will require collaboration 
between industry and government 
and a strengthening of trust in the 
digital world. T o achieve this, Siemens 
initiated the world’s first-ever joint 
charter for cybersecurity—called the 
“Charter of Trust.”
The Charter of Trust points out 
10 areas for action in cybersecurity where government and business 
must become equally active. It calls 
for establishing responsibility for 
cybersecurity at the highest levels of 
government and businesses and for 
introducing a dedicated ministry in 
government and a Chief Information 
Security Officer at companies.
It also calls for mandatory, 
independent certification for critical IoT 
applications. Above all, it aims to create 
an industrial environment in which 
cybersecurity is addressed proactively 
so that companies, including oil and gas 
operators, can realize the full potential of 
digital transformation.
The government must take a 
leadership role when it comes to  
the rules in cyberspace; however, 
private companies must take a 
risk-based approach to implement 
standards and share best practices  
in a trusted community.
Air gapping
OT cyberattacks against the oil and gas 
industry have risen from 5% to 30% 
in just a few short years. They range 
from disrupting SCADA and industrial 
control systems, causing outages and 
safety issues, to ransomware attacks, 
where systems are held hostage 
with threats to disrupt and destroy 
operating systems.
With more than 2.7 million miles 
of oil, gas and chemical pipelines 
crisscrossing the U.S. alone, intrusions 
into control systems could do more 
than disrupt deliveries. As a result, 
the primary challenge midstream 
operators face is securing a complex 
and open ecosystem without 
impacting profitability.
Given that the likelihood of being 
attacked in today’s environment is 100%, 
pipeline operators cannot wait any 
longer to address cybersecurity. Many 
mistakenly believe that the only way 
to protect their assets is to “air gap,” an 
absence of a direct or indirect connection 
between a computer and the Internet for 
security reasons.
Air gapping, however, focuses on 
minimizing connectivity, which prevents 
companies from reaping all the benefits 
that digitalization has to offer. It also 
limits visibility into the operating 
environment, which makes it all but impossible to recognize abnormalities 
and react when a cyberattack does 
inevitably occur.
Inside threats
Air gapping also doesn’t protect against 
inside threats, which often pose the 
greatest risk to critical operations.
In a recent survey conducted by 
Siemens and the Ponemon Institute of 
377 oil and gas security professionals, 
65% of respondents said that a negligent 
or careless insider was their top 
cybersecurity concern, while 15% said it 
was a malicious or criminal insider.
It is essential that midstream 
companies view cybersecurity not as a 
seatbelt or an airbag in the digital world, 
but rather as a crucial component to 
their success in the digital economy. 
Data and security analytics hold great 
promise in identifying and thwarting 
sophisticated machine speed attacks, 
which require immediate levels of 
response and pattern recognition.
This innovative OT-managed service 
from Siemens and Chronicle leverages 
analytics and AI to unlock the value 
of security data—providing cyber 
protection across the entire midstream 
operating environment. n
Leo Simonovich  is vice president of 
industrial cybersecurity for Siemens.In a recent survey 
conducted by 
Siemens and 
the Ponemon 
Institute of 377 oil 
and gas security 
professionals, 65% 
of respondents said 
that a negligent or 
careless insider 
was their top 
cybersecurity 
concern.
©  HART ENERGY  |  1616 S. VOSS, STE. 1000, HOUSTON, TX 77057 USA  |  +1 713 260 6400  |  FAX +1 713 840 8585