Intelligent Illumination for IoT Cyber Defense Industrial Cybersecurity 
EOS.ii™ Monitoring  
and Detection Platform
DRAFT
 siemens-energy.com/cybersecurityAbout Our Practice

Content
08 The Dawn of Industrial IoT
10 The Energy Industry’s Digital Revolution
12 The Complexities of Defending an IoT Environment 
14 The IoT Monitoring and  Detection Imbalance 
16 Building a Fusion SOC to Illuminate Industrial IoT
19 Illuminating the Foundation for IoT Visibility and Context 
21 Seeing Through the Fog with Monitoring and Detection 
23 The Intelligence Behind Eos.ii™ 
27 Realizing the Vision of a Fusion SOC
Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 4Executive Summary
Leo Simonovich 
Global Head,  
Industrial Cyber and Digital Security  
Siemens Energy
Imbuing useful machines with network 
 connectivity and automated monitoring 
offers tremendous power. We can envision 
warehouses and retail stores with instant, 
automatic inventory. Cities where traffic 
flows steadily because the lights change 
when vehicles approach. Pipelines that self-  
report signs of impending failure.  Elec tric 
grids that seamlessly shift between renew -
able sources of energy to provide afford -
able, reliable power with low or zero  
emissions during peak demand. 
These visions are already just expansions 
of fundamental changes in our economy, 
currently underway. The reality of physical 
industrial equipment seamlessly integrated 
with the digital world is already here and 
poised to grow. 
Energy and critical infrastructure companies 
are aggressively building an industrial Inter -
net of Things (IoT) to make operations more 
automated, more flexible and more efficient 
by seamlessly linking operational technol -
ogy (OT) to control physical assets with 
information technology (IT) applications. 
Yet without IoT cybersecurity monitoring 
and detection, these ambitions will fail.
Protecting energy and critical infrastructure 
sectors run on industrial IoT technology puts 
Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) 
and their existing Security Operations Cen -
ters (SOCs) under significant strain. As the 
IoT business model increasingly integrates 
physical assets and digital networks, CISOs 
need entirely different monitoring and detection capabilities to overcome the scale 
and complexity of securing a hyperconnect -
ed world from cyberattacks.
To monitor and secure industrial IoT envi -
ronments, CISO will need a new platform 
that can serve as the foundation of their 
organization’s IoT SOC with the capabilities 
to address today ’s vulnerabilities and evolve 
to meet tomorrow’s threats. Leveraging its 
legacy in engineering and securing energy 
and critical infrastructure industries for 
more than 170 years, Siemens Energy has 
developed a new Security Information 
and Event Management (SIEM) platform, 
 Eos. ii™.
Eos.ii™ is a scalable and flexible AI-based 
monitoring and detection platform designed 
to serve as the foundation for a next-gener -
ation fusion IoT SOC. By design, it enables 
rapid gathering, processing, and prioritizing 
of actionable intelligence within industrial 
operating environments. Eos.ii™ is the  
first SIEM to unify IT and OT monitoring 
and detection capabilities through machine 
learning to prioritize high-consequence 
alerts for human investigation – and enable 
continuous, site-specific improvement. 
Eos.ii™ empowers CISOs and SOCs with  
the platform and insights needed to scale 
up security to meet the demands of IoT 
 business models. It offers unmatched capa -
bilities to build and maintain robust, adapt -
able, and resilient defenses in a fast-moving 
and competitive IoT future.
An AI-based monitoring and detection platform 
purpose-built to serve as the foundation of an  
IOT fusion SOC for energy and critical infrastructure  
in an era of persistent cyberattacks.
Acronyms & Definitions
AI
Artificial Intelligence  is field of computer 
science that uses algorithms to iteratively 
learn relationships between variables in  
large datasets.Fusion SoC
A Fusion SoC  is both a strategic and tactical 
Security Operations Center (SoC) capable of 
monitoring, detecting and acting on cyber 
threat intelligence on IT networks and physi -
cal assets controlled by OT systems.
CISO
The Chief Information Security Officer  is 
responsible for assessing cyber risks  
and defending company assets against  
cyber  attacks. Modern CISOs often have 
 respon sibility for digital security of people, 
devices and data.IT 
Information Technologies are technologies  
for storing, retrieving, or transmitting informa -
tion. They include  personal computers, servers, 
and communications  networks.
Context 
Context is the information necessary to 
understand the operating status of a device, 
its relationship to linked systems, and the 
operating status of those connected sys -
tems.IoT 
The Internet of Things is a term used to de -
scribe IT and OT devices that are networked 
together to make an integrated whole, allow -
ing for automated feedback loops between 
multiple devices, automatic inventory, remote 
management tools, and many other features. 
Page 6
OT 
Operating Technologies include equipment 
with a mechanical or real-world output – for 
example a turbine, pump, or robotic arm – 
often controlled by a computer processor 
built into the equipment.SOC
A Security Operations Center  is the centralized 
hub of cyberdefenses for an organization. 
Analysts within a SOC investigate potential 
threats and take actions to protect assets or 
recover from attacks. 
Precision Defense™
Precision Defense™  is the use of monitoring 
to identify the extent of intrusions, enabling 
effective  containment, eradication and 
recovery with the smallest possible collater -
al impact on business processes.Unified Threat Stream 
A Unified Threat Steam is a data feed that 
collects information from every monitored 
component of a system in a centralized and 
standardized format, trans lating from dispa -
rate source languages and formats as needed. 
PSA
Process Security Analytics is the proprietary 
methodology Siemens Energy uses to ana -
lyze IT and OT data to assess which security 
events will be consequential.Visibility 
Visibility is the ability of an analyst or security 
operations center to pull real-time informa -
tion about a device, its operating status, and 
its context within the larger system. 
SIEM
Security Information and Event Management 
is a category of software platform used to log 
and analyze data and events relevant to 
cybersecurity.
Page 7
The Dawn of Industrial IoT
Seamless Integration of Digital 
and Physical Worlds
The “internet of things” (IoT) is bringing 
rapid change to the industrial world – fun -
damentally and forever shifting all aspects 
of the economy into digital connectivity.
At its core, IoT is the seamless integration 
of operational technology (OT) – which is 
responsible for controlling and command -
ing physical equipment – with information 
technology (IT) systems. This integration 
allows companies to optimize, refine and 
create efficiency through big data, tailor -
made apps and artificial intelligence (AI).
IoT brings big benefits to businesses across 
industrial sectors – and for cybersecurity, 
it’s also a big change. Previously, digital OT 
commands running energy assets, heavy 
machinery or infrastructure facilities were 
typically sectioned off from network con-
nected IT systems, with a clear divide be -
tween IT and OT assets and their respective 
security procedures. This divide helped 
protect OT assets from more frequent and 
easily executed cyberattacks commonly 
launched against IT networks.Digitalization’s Achilles Heel
IoT is blurring that division. Energy and 
critical infrastructure companies are inten-
tionally linking IT and OT to make their 
operations more automated, more flexible, 
and ready to launch previously impossible 
products and processes.
Over 8 billion industrial IoT devices are 
already in use, and more than a billion are 
expected to be added this year. As organi -
zations bridge the boundaries between the 
physical and digital worlds, they are also 
unavoidably exposing new vulnerabilities 
to physical assets that had previously been 
protected from many digital attacks.¹
The confluence of these factors means 
that industrial IoT gives cyber attackers a 
pathway – if successful – to cause physical 
damage that would bring huge and lasting 
consequences for millions of customers. 
This makes the energy and critical infra -
structure sectors an attractive target for 
malicious actors, including some backed  
by nation-states.
1 https://www.statista.com/
statistics/1183457/iot-connect -
ed-devices-worldwide/
Page 8
Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and Detection
Defending in the Dark
It is no secret that cybersecurity teams tasked 
with defending industrial IoT environments 
now have more infrastructure to protect 
against the backdrop of more frequent, more 
ferocious attacks. The assets in need of protec -
tion have also changed as connectivity is now 
required for previously isolated devices, and 
mobility and variability are defining features of 
previously static assets. 
It should not be surprising that CISOs and their 
teams frequently find a mismatch between 
their current cyber capabilities, their organi -
zation’s demands to advance innovative IoT 
business models – and that attackers seek to 
exploit these gaps. 
This forces the question: How does a CISO 
overcome the technical obstacles and capa-
bility gaps needed to secure digital and 
 physical assets from cyberattacks today and  
in the future?
Hyperconnectivity Here to Stay
Slowing the pace of change isn’t an option. 
Companies have bet their businesses on 
expanding IoT capabilities for a competitive 
advantage in the industrial marketplace. But most CISOs and cybersecurity person -
nel come from IT backgrounds with a high 
 degree of expertise securing digital networks, 
and the security of physical equipment was 
left to engineers in the field. 
For CISOs, their businesses, and their ever-  
changing assets, the future depends on 
gaining expertise in physical asset security 
with relatively new OT-specific cybersecurity 
technologies and methodologies to get IoT 
cybersecurity right. That means cybersecuri -
ty teams need to master IT and OT monitor -
ing and detection equally amid rapid change 
and increasing complexity.
Illuminating an Ongoing Revolution
IoT cybersecurity relies on a core concept: 
defenders must gain visibility and context 
across an operating environment of physical 
and digital assets to monitor, detect and act 
on potential cyberthreats before they exe -
cute across an interconnected system. 
To mitigate cyberattacks against digital and 
physical assets, defenders need to see into 
each and every system. And CISOs need to 
ensure their teams will have that capability 
no matter what new technologies their 
companies add in the future.
Page 9
Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical Infrastructure
Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 10The Energy Industry’s  
Digital Revolution
Unlocking the Energy Transition 
As the energy and critical infrastructure 
sectors increasingly depend on seam -
less connections between physical and 
 digital assets, malicious actors are taking 
 ad vantage of the inherent vulnerabilities  
in a digitally driven energy ecosystem. 
Oil and gas companies are accelerating the 
digital connections between existing energy 
assets – such as pipelines and gas turbines – 
with cutting-edge digital sensors and IT 
systems to improve safety, performance and 
reduce emissions. Utilities already accus -
tomed to balancing electric grids in real time 
are rapidly connecting smart devices and 
distributed power sources with sophisticated 
software systems for variable time-of-use 
pricing and to increase clean energy pene -
tration. 
These trends are only expected to increase 
as major oil and gas players announce plans 
to shift away from fossil fuels and towards 
digital energy platforms, and the titan com-
bustion-engine carmakers plan for all-elec -
tric futures.Exploiting Connected Infra -
structure  
As the energy and critical infrastructure sec -
-tors increasingly depend on the seamless 
connection between physical and digital as -
sets, malicious actors are taking advantage 
of the inherent vulnerabilities in a digitally 
driven energy ecosystem. 
In 2021 – in the United States alone – ma -
licious actors have targeted a major oil 
and gas pipeline, a wastewater treatment 
facility, and food, manufacturing and critical 
infrastructure supply chains.2 Whether ran -
somware, supply-chain attacks, denial- of-
service or zero-day threats, these attacks are 
accelerating for a range of reasons – from 
collateral in broader geopolitical conflict 
between nations to financial gain. 
While motivations differ, criminal gangs and 
state-supported cyber units understand that 
vulnerable IoT assets give them the power 
to not only paralyze entire economies, but 
also sow chaos for families and businesses 
across the world.2 https://cybermagazine.com/
top10/10-high-profile-cyber-  
attacks-2021
In mid-May, millions living up and down 
the American East Coast experienced the 
chaos caused by a far-reaching cyberat -
tack targeting critical infrastructure. 
A ransomware attack hit a major pipeline 
company. Unsure if OT or IT systems 
were compromised, the company feared 
that malicious actors could gain further 
access to critical OT control systems. The 
infrastructure carrying gasoline and jet 
fuel to nearly a third of the U.S. popula -
tion was at stake. Rather than operate 
with uncertainty, the company shut 
down all operations, stopping all flow of 
fuel through the pipeline.³
As industry leaders and government of -
ficials responded to the unfolding crisis, 
it only took a few hours for panic to set 
in – gas lines formed, emergency and critical care services further stretched in 
the midst of a global pandemic, and the 
economic security threatened millions 
of businesses and families. The price of 
gasoline skyrocketed, and filling stations 
soon ran out of supply. In response, the 
federal government declared a state 
of emergency. State governments put 
in place policies to increase oil and gas 
supplies by tanker trucks and dissuaded 
citizens from panic buying fuel.
The pipeline remained shut down for 
six days while teams of investigators 
diagnosed the problem and negotiated a 
ransom. In Congressional testimony, the 
pipeline company’s executives revealed 
that the cause of the attack was a lack of 
cyber hygiene – an employee failed to 
enact two-factor authentication to help 
protect the company’s software.⁴ The ransomware attack successfully 
breached the organization’s IT network, 
but luckily never infiltrated OT systems 
or physical energy infrastructure.⁵ How -
ever, the incident forced the company to 
shut down all operations on the suspi -
cion that malicious actors had access to 
sensitive OT infrastructure. The lack of 
visibility and context into the attack in -
flicted financial losses in the millions due 
to the ransomware payment, more than 
seven days of system-wide downtime 
and significant reputational damage.A Glimpse Into the Future:  
The Threat to Critical Infrastructure
How a Cyberattack on an Oil and Gas Pipeline Exposed the World’s Vulnerability
3 https://www.gao.gov/blog/colonial-pipeline-  
cyberattack-highlights-need-better-federal-  
and-private-sector-preparedness-infographic
4 https://www.hsgac.senate.gov/hearings/
threats-to-critical-infrastructure-examining-  
the-colonial-pipeline-cyber-attack
5 https://us-cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/aa21-131a
Page 11
Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 12The Complexities of Defending  
an IoT Environment 
Securing A New Nonlinear Frontier
Before the rise of industrial IoT business models, cyber -
security teams mostly knew and understood the threat 
landscape they were responsible for defending, and built 
the right capabilities for that task. But the promise of 
 industrial IoT calls for an environment where every piece  
of equipment and software can connect with any other 
equipment – and can trust that connection.
Facilities that used to have centralized controls now use 
remote access for routine workflows. Physical equipment 
that was previously air-gapped is now networked. Apps  
and networked endpoints in the hands of consumers and 
users must connect to company assets to fulfill their in -
tended functions. Industrial IoT operating environments now rely on hyper -
connectivity, an intermeshed network of connected legacy 
and digitally native assets, and extreme flexibility to allow 
network access to non-stationary and intermittent IT and 
OT technologies owned by a company, used by its custom -
ers and integrated with third parties.
These same defining features of powerful IoT business 
models often leave organizations vulnerable to cyberat -
tacks, and CISOs without the capabilities needed to defend 
a typical industrial IoT portfolio. As the threat landscape 
changes dramatically, CISOs need to balance closing the 
gaps between current capabilities, growing responsibilities 
to support innovative business models, and countering 
evolving threats.
A hyperconnected 
operating environment
A mix of legacy
and new equipmentMobile and variable 
assets
6 www.statista.com/statistics/1183457/
iot-connected-devices-worldwideLike the move from landlines 
to cell phones, the IoT future 
means the devices connected 
to an industrial network will 
change from day to day – or 
even minute by minute. The 
business benefits of industrial 
IoT depend on supporting and 
defending this flexibility.
Older systems retrofitted for IoT and integrated with 
newer, digitally native technologies will remain as 
infrastructure backbones. Both old and new equip -
ment need cutting-edge defenses against evolving 
threats.Industrial IoT fundamentally changes 
the need for humans to manage con -
nections between physical and digital 
assets as connected devices will 
automatically exchange information 
to optimize workflows. Market fore -
casters project 25 billion industrial  
IoT devices by 2030.⁶
Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical InfrastructurePage 13

Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 14The IoT Monitoring and 
 Detection Imbalance 
The foundation of IoT cybersecurity is under  standing the 
two-way relationship between the digital and physical 
worlds, and then monitoring those relationships to detect 
and act on threats. For most CISOs using existing SOC capa -
bilities, gaining insight into all physical devices and digital 
networks that comprise an IoT operating environment is 
an overwhelmingly complex technical and capability chal -
lenge.
Poor Visibility and Unseen Threats Mask 
 Physical and Digital Assets
To monitor and detect threats in time to prevent an attack 
requires two key elements – visibility and context. Security 
teams need visibility into every physical and digital node 
connected to their network.
Then they need to combine billions of data points into a 
unified threat stream so analysts in a SOC can understand 
from context  whether anomalous behavior poses a threat  
or is a benign change in production workflow. 
Lacking a Unified Threat Stream
Creating a unified threat stream is a significant technical 
challenge for most IoT SOCs because raw OT and IT  
data speak separate languages that were never intended 
to be analyzed together. Yet without unifying these data 
streams, defenders can’t contextualize anomalies between 
commands sent to OT controlling physical assets and 
IT software linked to this data – and subsequently will  
miss attackers who are actively exploring the network  
in search of vulnerabilities.
Until now, creating a unified threat steam in a hypercon -
nected environment has not been possible in most SOCs 
because OT-specific monitoring and detection technologies 
were too immature and required specialized technical 
expertise in physical assets. Even as emerging AI-based 
solutions helped overcome many of these challenges, few 
have the capability to sync heterogeneous IT and OT data 
streams. The result is that most IoT SOCs can’t see a complete picture 
of what’s happening in their systems – and can’t defend 
what they can’t see. 
Fog Surrounds Defenders without Equal 
 Detection Capabilities
Most organizations seeking to expand monitoring and 
detection in IoT environments suffer from a capability  
gap when it comes to IT and OT technology deployment 
and expertise. While even organizations with a business 
model firmly grounded in owning and operating physical 
assets struggle with OT security, the vast majority of  
CISOs struggle to apply IT cybersecurity methodologies  
to physical equipment in IoT environments.
Imbalanced Maturity 
CISOs without a foundation in securing physical assets  
from cyberattacks often find themselves in one of several 
technological or capability gaps. 
In the least mature organizations, CISOs are asked to ex -
pand security for IoT environments without deploying any 
new OT-specific monitoring capabilities; while others use 
IT monitoring approaches in the field as a solution to satisfy 
regulatory requirements or believe that more specialized 
approaches are too costly or are unnecessary for complete 
defense. 
In more sophisticated organizations, CISOs will monitor IT 
and OT assets side by side in a SOC built for IT security, and 
manually analyze data streams. Finally, the most mature 
organizations have custom monitoring approaches where 
they analyze physical and digital relationships in a massive 
data pool, but lack the rigorous methods to effectively 
apply insights. 
While gaps between IT and OT monitoring and detection 
capabilities leave operating environments exposed to 
 cyberattacks, the true capacity gap most CISOs lack is an 
ability to equally understand – and act on – threats in both 
the physical and digital worlds under a unified platform.
Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical InfrastructurePage 15
Defense Gap Leaves Assets in the Dark
Lacking Equal Expertise in Defending the Physical and Digital Worlds 
Frequently Leaves IT Networks Protected and OT Assets Exposed
Most organizations seeking to expand monitoring and 
detection in IoT environments suffer from a capability 
gap when it comes to IT and OT technology deployment 
and expertise. 

Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 16EOS.iiBuilding a Fusion SOC to 
Illuminate Industrial IoT
To overcome the obstacles of building ro - 
bust IoT monitoring, CISOs need to under -
stand if any singular command – out of 
billions occurring between a given physical 
and digital asset – represents a cyberattack. 
This type of real-time protection requires 
solving several interlocking challenges 
simultaneously, including synthesizing 
hetero geneous data flows into a unified 
threat stream, equal expertise in IT and  
OT systems to rapidly draw insight, and 
acting on threat intelligence in the SOC  
and in the field.Analyzing Threats Under a Single 
Pane of Glass
For CISOs, building a single-pane-of-glass 
system to monitor and detect threats across 
their enterprise will require reimagining 
their existing SOCs.
A CISO can expect the assets and environ -
ments under their defensive umbrellas to 
change frequently as the digital revolution 
speeds along its exponential growth curve. 
Threats aiming to exploit this progress will 
Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical InfrastructurePage 17EOS.iiundergo similar rapid changes to adeptly maneuver around 
more sophisticated defenses. Rather than trying to adopt 
the latest cyber solution each time threats evolve, defend -
ers need a platform that can serve as an enduring founda -
tion for IoT security.
Any approach to IoT cybersecurity must integrate IT and OT 
monitoring and detection within a fusion SOC. That means 
bringing together otherwise incompatible data sources, 
empowering analysts to defend each layer of their organiza -
tion’s technology stack within a constantly evolving threat 
detection engine capable of accomplishing these tasks with 
speed and accuracy amid constant change. 
Fusion SOCs will bring together IT and OT cyber capabilities 
to provide human analysts with efficient and powerful 
tools to investigate and act on threats in ways that mini -
mize disruption to operations and adapt to evolving threat 
environ ments.The Intelligent SIEM to Illuminate IoT 
 Cyberattacks
Siemens Energy’s Eos.ii™ industrial cyber-defense platform 
enables CISOs to bridge this physical – digital divide, and 
illuminate the IoT operating environment so defenders can 
act on threats before they execute. 
Eos.ii™ is a scalable AI-driven Security Information and 
Event Management (SIEM) platform that serves as the foun -
dation for a Fusion SOC, providing defenders with complete 
monitoring and detection capabilities through a single-
pane-of-glass interface that provides clear and in-depth 
insights to take action against cyberattacks. 
This gives CISOs and cyber analysts working in a fusion SOC 
the power needed to investigate suspicious events, and 
permanently bolster defenses for their unique IoT operating 
environments.
Siemens Energy’s technical mastery combined 
with machine learning automates routine tasks 
to ingest, prioritize and present huge volumes 
of information. Analysts immediately hone in 
on high-consequence eventsEos.ii™ actively draws analyst attention to high-consequence 
events while giving analysts the scope of visibility and depth 
of context needed to identify and act on threats.
Siemens Energy’s OT knowledge base guides  
design, enabling existing IT staff to understand  
and investigate the context of anomalies  
in the IT and OT  foundations of industrial IoT.Automation at Scale
Intelligence to Act
Illumination of  
Physical-Digital Relationships
Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 18More data provides a basis for 
anomaly detection across 
network and vulnerabilityKnowing which data sources and what 
data points is the ﬁrst step – network, 
asset, control system, and process data 
sourcesContinuous Monitoring
Prioritization is focused on 
scale and fewer mission 
critical functions are at stakeEvery alert is critical and warrants 
a deep investigation into potential 
safety and reliability impactsTriage and InvestigationAlerts are more frequent 
and can be noisier than OT 
alerts Detection requires comprehensive 
data collection across physical and 
digital sourcesDetection and Alerting
Digital responses are 
usually well-deﬁned to 
quarantine and neutralize 
threatsResponse can include 
physical and digital steps 
to protect operationsResponse and RecoverySIEM with  
IT CapabilitiesSIEM with OT  
and IT Capabilities 
Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical InfrastructurePage 19
Creating Visibility in a Hybrid Environment 
The immediate need in most SOCs is to close the gap in OT 
capabilities, and then bring together OT and IT visibility and 
context within a fusion SOC to identify and evaluate anom -
alies. Unlike operating environments that rely on either IT 
or OT expertise, a fusion SOC must communicate in terms 
accessible to the people who need to take action on both 
the physical and digital realms. 
Eos.ii™ provides the needed foundation for an IoT SOC, 
starting by mastering the daunting technical feat of creating 
a unified threat stream. A unified threat stream illuminates 
OT and IT data sources, giving analysts visibility into the full 
chain of cause and effect when IoT assets interact. While 
gathering and processing data for IT and OT goes through 
similar stages, the mechanics of these workflows differ and 
require analysis through separate algorithms before defend -
ers can fully understand the collated data. Using a proprietary method called Process Security Ana -
lytics (PSA), Siemens Energy systematically standardizes, 
collates, and analyzes OT and IT data to reveal anomalous 
behaviors and patterns that match known cyberattacks. 
PSA methodology allows defenders to use context to dif -
ferentiate between normal fluctuations and active threats, 
even when signals cut across hybrid environments. Work -
flows can draw on unified and expanded IoT visibility to pri -
oritize high-consequence events for human investigation. 
Each action attackers take to probe the IoT network offers 
signals about what that attacker intends. In a fully success -
ful IoT SOC personnel can recognize these signals, correctly 
predict how the attack will unfold, assess its potential 
impacts and – if needed – take action fast enough to block 
those impacts. Illuminating the Foundation 
for IoT Visibility and Context 
Intelligence to Act with a Unified Threat Stream
Eos.ii™ gives analysts the scope of visibility and depth of context needed to  
identify and act on threats

Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 20

Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical InfrastructurePage 21Moving from Visibility and 
 Context to Monitoring and 
 Detection 
Monitoring and detecting threats requires 
understanding current conditions, and 
then comparing them against past threats 
and normal baselines to illuminate what’s 
suspicious. 
Comparing historical and current asset 
conditions requires a built-for-purpose 
platform that uses AI, ML and predictive 
analytics to identify anomalies within 
seconds of detection. Eos.ii™ illuminates  
both the depth and breadth of an install 
base, bringing together automation with  
the incisiveness of human intelligence to 
hunt for any trace of malware. 
The Power of the Eos.ii™ 
 Detection Engine
With AI at its core, Eos.ii™ is designed to 
make sense of billions of data points that 
comprise physical and digital relationships in 
industrial environments, correlating abnor -malities that would be otherwise impercep-
tible to cyber analysts. 
In one real-world example, a SOC analyst 
 using Eos.ii™ detected a problem with 
firewall hardware at a power plant. The 
hardware was rated for 55 degrees Celsius, 
but running above 70 degrees. This made 
the power plant’s control system vulnerable 
to crashes when the firewall overheated.  
If this system failed during power produc -
tion, the company would not be eligible 
for payment – a potential loss of millions 
of  dollars per hour. Eos.ii™ helped analysts 
determine this was not an attack, and 
prompted corrective maintenance that 
strengthened ongoing cyber readiness.
Built to Adapt to Emerging Threats
When new threats are identified anywhere 
in the world, the Eos.ii™ detection engine 
automatically evaluates the vulnerability 
of an organization’s install base and can 
anticipate anomalous behavior. When these 
threat signatures – known or novel – are 
detected, Eos.ii™ can identify asset expo -
sure within an operating environment and 
generate an alert for human attention.Seeing Through the Fog with 
Monitoring and Detection 
Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 22
EOS.ii
Investigations 
Use data search and correlation 
tools to  conduct deep investiga -
tions into specific assetsTopology Search 
Quickly search for assets, 
anomalies, vulnerabilities,  
and other data across fleets
Plant Data Visualizer 
Review data visualizations from 
physical and digital assets in one 
place for enhanced context 
Threat Intelligence 
Compare site activity to known 
signatures and review historic 
data for new signatures
Alert Management
Automatically detect 
events and correlate them 
for analyst reviewPlatform Tuner  
Easily build new rules,  tune ML 
models, and  enhance capabilities 
for  specific sites and assetsEos.ii™ Platform
Platform modules provide the backbone to generate 
insights and drive actionable intelligence 

Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical InfrastructurePage 23Illumination of Physical-  
Digital Relationships 
Quickly search and understand  the 
relation ships between devices – their loca -
tion in the plant, and how they link up 
physically and digitally. Search by time and 
attribute lets analysts immediately scrutinize 
relevant devices when new threats are 
discovered.Manage alert prioritization  to improve alert response 
time and avoid alert fatigue.  
Tailoring new rules – including machine learning 
rules – continuously strengthens defenses. 
Intelligence to Act 
Automate proactive decision making  
with intelli gence, domain specific 
playbooks and threat hunting workflows. 
Context driven intelligence means active 
threat hunting becomes a larger share of 
analyst time.The Intelligence Behind Eos.ii™ 
Automation on ScaleEos.ii™ brings together key capabilities in an integrated 
platform. Automation detects events, prioritizes potential 
threats and alerts analysts to investigate the most conse -
quential anomalies.
Combined, these modules make it easy for analysts to per -
form quick, deep analyses, relate their findings to the big 
picture, and adjust defenses to perform the same analysis 
automatically going forward. Each advances the state of 
the art for industrial IoT monitoring and detection – and like IoT, the combination is even more powerful than any 
single feature.
Eos.ii™ enables analysts in a IoT fusion SOC to move  
seam  lessly from discovering a new threat to confirming  
its absence in protected networks to updating auto - 
mated  defenses. Its powerful detection engine and easy 
adaptability offer unprecedented ability to stay on top  
of changing circumstances – from new assets to new 
threats.
Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 24The Detection Engine for 
 Industrial IoT
Although most alerts don’t require cyberse -
curity responses, defenders need to quickly 
home in on those that do. SOC analysts can 
rely on Eos.ii™ to automatically sift through 
volumes of security events and alerts that 
occur in industrial IoT systems, using its 
library of asset attributes, topology, and 
known threat profiles to assess which events 
will be high consequence. This means  Eos. ii™ 
can distinguish between similar alerts – 
giving low priority to a single wind turbine 
wearing out its bearings, but high priority 
to a wind farm inadvertently infested with 
malware during a site visit. 
AI Insights and Tuning 
The core of Eos.ii™ is a rules-based detec -
tion engine drawn from OT knowledge and 
sophisticated machine learning. Pre-built 
rules leverage generations of Siemens 
Energy engineering knowledge to alert SOC 
personnel of suspicious or dangerous OT 
conditions. Meanwhile, Eos.ii’s machine 
learning detection engine teaches itself the 
normal pattern of relationships between 
variables based on real-world operating 
data, automatically tailoring anomaly de -
tection to the specific sites and assets under 
protection. 
In the event that a company is hit with a 
completely novel attack that does not match 
known IT signatures, Eos.ii’s automatic 
de tec tion engine would alert human inves  ti-
gators as soon as the attack begins to affect 
OT assets – and would aid analysts in diag -
nosing the events. 
The combination of powerful investigative 
tools, prioritized alerts, and automated, 
scalable tuning reduces the number of SOC staff needed and exposure to alert fatigue, 
while enhancing the expertise and capabili -
ties of analysts on the detection team.
Threat-Hunting  – Getting Ahead 
of Attackers
Defenders equipped with a detailed and 
constantly updating understanding of their 
systems get to shift from a reactive stance 
to a predictive, prescriptive stance. Instead 
of waiting for an attack where the impacts 
are unmistakable, defenders can hunt for 
subtle signs of intrusions underway. Defend -
ers can use Eos.ii™ to identify the intent 
of a probing attacker earlier in their attack 
process, when a SOC has more options to 
limit the extent of intrusions and strengthen 
preventive measures.
Eos.ii™ Makes Threat-hunting 
Faster and More Powerful 
Instead of needing to log into several sys -
tems or call OT workers to check on condi -
tions, analysts can examine all the attributes 
and status of assets within a single pane of 
glass. Visualizations and easy navigation 
allow analysts to rapidly toggle between 
deep-dive investigations and their big-pic -
ture implications.
With Eos.ii, the previously difficult process 
of correlating security, process, and control 
system data becomes easy. Along with IT 
forensics and signature-based detection, 
Eos.ii™ enables a digital twin comparison – 
comparing a virtual model of the worksite 
against real-world data.
Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical InfrastructurePage 25

Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 26
Insights into Action with Precision Defense™ 
Stopping Threats Before They Execute 
The value of an AI-powered detection engine is its ability 
to provide actionable intelligence in time for defenders 
to get ahead of attackers. This means analysts get to act 
on threats they have discovered, interrupt attacks under -
way and adapt defenses in real time.

Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical InfrastructurePage 27
Realizing the Vision of a  
Fusion SOC
Acting on Intelligence 
The pipeline ransomware attack described 
earlier forced a tough choice on the com -
pany moving nearly half of fuel needed to 
power the eastern United States. Unsure 
whether the attack had spread from its IT 
networks to affect pipeline infrastructure 
and controls, the company chose to halt fuel 
deliveries, leading to gas-pump shortages. 
This attack illustrates the need for Precision 
Defense™ capabilities. Monitoring and 
detection that can determine the extent of  
a breach can guide narrowly targeted 
responses. Without such capabilities, com -
panies are left blind. Leaders end up being 
forced to choose between doing nothing – 
leaving worker safety and critical equip ment  
exposed to ongoing malicious  actions –  
or deploying brute-force solutions like a 
sweeping shutdown.
The value of an AI-powered detection 
engine is its ability to provide actionable 
 in telligence in time for defenders to get 
 ahead of attackers. This means analysts 
get to act on threats they have discovered, 
 interrupt attacks underway and adapt 
 defenses in real time. With each threat 
mitigated, the fusion SOC becomes better 
prepared to block attacks.
Precision Defense™ for Right-
Sized Interventions
The unparalleled ability to investigate IoT 
with visibility into both OT and IT sub-
systems enables greater precision for threat 
detection – and the insights needed for 
proportionate action. 
Determining the source and scope of 
a  problem is a key step in selecting a 
 corrective response in IoT systems. Unlike IT systems, which readily withstand abrupt 
shutdowns, pulling the plug on physical 
assets is typically a costly measure reserved 
for last resort. A precision defense approach 
seeks to address exactly the affected sys -
tems – no more and no less. If an intrusion 
reached only one pumping station, or only 
breached a sales database, there’s no need 
to shut down an entire pipeline. 
Rapid Responses and Perpetual 
Improvements
In these investigations, speed and quality 
both matter. Rapid, early detection can 
limit intrusions to a few isolated systems. 
Thorough, high-quality monitoring gives 
leaders the confidence that small, precise 
interventions will strike the right balance 
between eradicating threats and minimizing 
operational disruption. 
Eos.ii™ empowers analysts to rapidly detect 
and understand an attack anywhere in the 
IoT portfolio, mapping its scope and tracing 
the timing and attack vector – the informa -
tion needed for high-confidence precision 
defense. 
Eos.ii™ immediate adaptability – to novel 
attacks, to threats observed elsewhere, and 
to site-specific equipment – means that SOC 
personnel can take prescriptive, preventive 
action to block future attacks and scour 
systems looking for intrusions previously 
overlooked. 
Full visibility and forward modeling of 
digital- physical interactions turn IoT com -
plexity into a home-field advantage for 
defenders. When SOC personnel analyze  
the real-time status and logged histories  
of any aspect of the digital or physical  
assets under their protection, attackers  
have nowhere to hide.
Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 28Eos.ii™ transforms the interlocking challeng -
es of industrial IoT cybersecurity into core 
strengths. It tames the tangle of mismatched 
languages, provides visibility into obscure 
corners of OT, and illuminates the meaning 
of OT data for IT analysts. 
Automating routine tasks and prioritizing 
alerts based on expected consequences 
leverages human analyst time. Eos.ii™ adapts 
readily to new asset bases and ever-evolving 
threats. With Eos.ii™, CISOs can build a fusion 
SOC, overcome the challenges of today, and 
create the stable foundation needed for IoT 
industrial cybersecurity in the future.
Done well, robust industrial IoT cybersecurity 
builds trust with other parts of the orga -
nization. Instead of constantly bothering 
OT personnel for assistance, the SOC adds 
value by accurately flagging maintenance 
concerns. 
The SOC gains credibility and the reputa -
tion for accuracy needed to call for – and 
get – sudden shutdowns when a true crisis 
occurs. With a mature IoT SOC, CISOs can 
better quantify the magnitude of threats and 
vulnerabilities the SOC discovers, can better 
demonstrate the value their teams add to 
the business, and can better keep up with 
the changes needed to secure the modern 
energy sector.Eos.ii™ provides CISOs with the foundation 
needed to begin building a predictive SOC, 
and to strive for continuous improvement. 
As Eos.ii™ learns the baselines for work sites, 
and as IT staff become proficient in under -
standing IoT interactions and diagnosing 
attacker intent, defenders will be increasing -
ly able to predict the behavior of assets and 
attackers alike. 
Companies that deploy Eos.ii™ will enjoy re -
duced cyber risk, at a lower cost than hiring 
expertise or developing solutions in-house, 
and with support to keep Eos.ii™ current. 
Forward planning can proceed with better 
cost-benefit assessments, and crisis response 
can more precisely tailor eradication and 
recovery efforts when breaches occur. 
For the energy sector, securing the IoT is an 
essential step in ensuring that innovation 
can continue without sacrificing reliability. 
Siemens Energy’s Eos.ii™ will help organi -
zations of all sizes address their IoT security 
needs – strengthening the overall energy 
sector by hardening more links in the value 
chain.
Industrial IoT is clearly part of the energy 
sector’s future. At Siemens Energy, we’re 
committed to giving CISOs and SOCs the 
tools they need to make IoT a source of 
strength, not a hidden liability.A SOC Greater than  
the Sum of its Parts 
Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical InfrastructurePage 29

Eos.ii™ | IoT Monitoring and DetectionPage 30

Intelligent Illumination to Secure Critical InfrastructurePage 31

Published by
Siemens Energy Inc.
15375 Memorial Drive  
Houston, TX 77079  
United States
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and / or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the pro -
ducts. The requested performance features are binding only when they 
are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.