Gautam Chhibber, Steffen 
Jahrmarcht, and Scott Tackett, 
Siemens, USA, explore how 
additive manufacturing technology 
can optimise the production of 
centrifugal compressors.
Radial impellers play an integral role 
in the performance and reliability of turbocompressors. The stresses placed 
on the impellers during operation are 
typically higher than those placed on any other 
component of the rotating assembly. As a result, even the smallest manufacturing defects can lead to (at best) inefficient operation and (at worst) 
total compressor failure. Both have significant 
cost implications for users, particularly pipeline operators, who require compressor stations to operate efficiently 24/7 /365. 
Unlike many other spare parts, impellers must 
be precisely manufactured to meet the specific aerodynamic, thermal, and mechanical requirements of the compression application. They cannot be UP THE
LAYE RSSTACK
mass produced using traditional milling processes, which 
means high costs and long lead times for end-users when replacements are needed.  
In 2016, Siemens set out to solve this problem using 
additive manufacturing (AM) to commercially produce turbocompressor impellers. In October 2019, extensive quality and stress testing were completed. The first AM units are now ready for distribution to the market. They are designed to 
improve rotor dynamics, reduce weight and product waste, 
and shorten lead times from months to weeks. 
Impeller manufacturing challenges
Manufacturing compressor impellers is a complex task that often requires original equipment manufacturers (OEM) to satisfy a multitude of competing design requirements. 
First and foremost, the impeller must be able to deliver 
acceptable distributions of relative velocity on the blades’ driving and trailing surfaces to prevent flow separation, which can negatively impact performance. Secondly, after aerodynamic characteristics have been specified, the impeller 
must be evaluated to ensure that it can safely withstand 
the mechanical and thermal stresses it will be subjected to throughout its useful life. Finally, the impeller must be designed in such a way that it can be reproduced accurately 
using an automated manufacturing process.
Many large impellers today are fabricated via milling; 
however, for smaller impeller wheels, conventional milling 
techniques often impart too much impact on the material, increasing the likelihood of creating structural weaknesses. 
Additionally, for many high-performance and mission-critical 
applications where extreme manufacturing precision is required, the use of milling processes can result in minuscule defects on blade surfaces, leading to separation of flow and higher losses. 
A popular alternative to milling smaller impeller wheels 
has been an electrical discharge machining (EDM) process known as erosion. Erosion is a non-contacting method that enables machinists to achieve extremely close tolerances and intricate contours that would otherwise not be possible with 
conventional cutting processes. The primary disadvantage of EDM, however, is that it is highly cost prohibitive. Like milling, EDM also results in long lead times – typically to the tune of 
months. 
Overcoming conventional techniques
In recent years, an increasing number of companies have begun leveraging AM processes to overcome the challenges of conventional manufacturing techniques. 
Siemens started investing in AM in 2009 to produce 
critical components for gas turbines. In 2013, the company installed the first 3D-printed burner tips and burner swirls in gas turbines. Then in 2017, the first hot gas path blades were successfully printed and tested. Around the same time, 
3D-printed burner heads were also installed for commercial 
operation. Another development came in 2018 when an additively manufactured sealing ring was installed on a steam turbine in commercial operation. 
Siemens is now applying its knowledge of 3D printing 
to commercially produce closed radial impeller wheels for turbocompressors using an AM process based on powder bed fusion (PBF) – also known as selective laser melting (SLM), direct metal laser sintering, or electron beam melting.
With PBF, a 3D computer-aided design (CAD) file is sliced 
into 2D elements corresponding to laser scan vector data for each layer. A layer of metal powder with a specified thickness is then applied over the forming platform. The powder is melted selectively by a laser to produce the desired 
component in layers. Any powder that is not melted by the 
laser is brushed away from the part and collected for reuse.  
In recent months, Siemens has optimised this 
manufacturing process to improve the physical characteristics of additively manufactured radial impeller wheels, such as the 
surface quality of the blades. The blade channel of the first 
AM impeller wheel has a so-called ‘stepping effect.’ These steps are surface defects that lead to the creation of flow turbulence that can reduce compressor efficiency. 
Siemens has qualified a continuous process chain to 
ensure the fulfillment of all quality requirements, including an extensive non-destructive and destructive test programme to validate the mechanical integrity of radial impeller wheels. Figure 1 shows a 3D-printed impeller after a successful 
overspeed test without any indication.
The company has also improved the manufacturing 
process itself by proving that in a single printing run, three 
separate impeller wheels can be produced by stacking one above the other. This method can increase the efficiency of 
impeller production because preparations, such as warming up 
the printer, are undertaken once – instead of three separate times.
In addition to the wheel itself, covers for the impeller 
mounting screws (i.e. hub caps) can be manufactured using 
AM. Traditionally, hub caps have been fabricated by turning 
out cylinders, but the process typically results in as much as 95% of the metal being chipped away and discarded as waste. With AM, the caps can now be produced with virtually zero 
waste. 
A design study showed that another benefit of AM could 
be a reduction in the overall weight of the impeller by as 
  World Pipelines  /  REPRINTED FROM MARCH 2020
Figure 1. Additively manufactured radial impeller after overspeed 
test.
much as 30%, which contributes to better rotor dynamics of 
the compressor. It also offers advantages for the AM process itself, as every reduced gram of material that does not have to 
be melted by the laser saves time and money. 
Finally, AM has allowed Siemens to reduce spare part 
lead times and serve short-term orders more efficiently. In 
the past, using traditional manufacturing techniques, it was not uncommon for impeller wheels to take up to several 
months to deliver, particularly during times of high capacity 
utilisation. While this timeframe is not necessarily a problem if the impeller is changed as part of a scheduled service plan, it is far too long in the case of an unexpected shutdown when 
the replacement is needed as soon as possible. Siemens’ goal 
is to deliver AM impeller wheels to customers in as little as six weeks, which would be a huge reduction in current lead times. 
Accelerating adoption of new technologies
Over the past five years, AM has emerged as a transformational technology for the energy industry – enabling OEMs to create new designs and geometries that 
have not been possible with conventional manufacturing 
methods. The production of radial impellers using AM is just one of the many examples of how it is being leveraged to deliver measurable value to equipment end-users – from improved blade surface quality and decreased weight, to reduced waste and significantly shortened lead times.
Overall, AM has enabled Siemens to respond to customer 
requirements more effectively and expeditiously. It has also increased flexibility in the design process, allowing developers to tweak 3D models digitally to develop prototypes that can be used for testing. Parts can be rapidly printed and 
checked for certain properties before serial production begins, 
massively speeding up innovation cycles. 
Historically, the oil and gas industry has been conservative 
when it comes to adopting new technologies, and AM has 
been no exception. Siemens has illustrated some of the 
benefits of 3D printing for the manufacturing of gas turbine components, and is now applying this added knowledge to compressors. 
Ultimately, as energy providers, including pipeline 
operators, seek to improve efficiency and increase the availability of their compression assets, the benefits of 3D printing will become harder and harder to ignore. The technology is rapidly maturing, and every year more components are being tested and validated in real-world 
applications. Siemens has demonstrated this, and will continue 
to invest in the development of AM products and services 
that comprehensively address the equipment lifecycle  – from 
design and fabrication to operation.   
REPRINTED FROM MARCH 2020 /   World Pipelines   