unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Use Case:
Reverse Engineering
of a closed Impeller
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 20212
2021 -08
•Impeller of water pump damaged but no 
more spare parts available
•Neither model nor drawing of the impeller 
existing due to age of part
•Part to be produced as a one-to-one copy 
from original damaged part
•Very low quantity needed leading to 
consideration of additive manufacturing
•No design changes allowed to ensure 
same future pump performance  Pump ImpellerProject overview
No Mfg. drawingsNo 3D data
No database
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Data Acquisition –GOM scan of part
The 3D scan had 
big holes in the 
internal  channels. 
(green contours)
Outer edges of the 
model were not 
sharp and showed 
wear effects, too.
Hole and bore 
geometries are 
not exact and 
inhibit defects.
One rib is missing: Is there 
a technical need for these 
features at all, can the 
geometry be modified here?
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Design development –One-to-one copy
Scan data Wireframe External geometry
Internal channels Internal wireframe CAD model
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Part analysis to develop print strategy
Wall thickness [mm]Increased 
internal 
surface angle
Thin wall 
analysis
Undesired wall 
thickness 
distributionWall thickness analysis
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Build job preparation
Volume edge 
supportsInternal channel 
volume supports
Bottom volume 
supportsAdditional clamping
to ease milling  
Edge blende to improve 
adherence to the built plateFeatures simplifications 
and material addition
Print orientation:
 Support Strategy:
Build direction
Overhanging 
SurfacesMaterial addition to 
match fitting tolerances
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 20217
2021 -08
Project results
•Successful printing of impeller
•Support structures suitable to support 
overhanging surfaces and to be removed
•Enough stock on critical surfaces to 
machine to final dimensions
•Model available to print future spare part 
with significantly reduced lead time
•Spare part successfully running in pump 
application with same performance 
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Disclaimer
This document has been prepared in respect of Siemens Energy AG (together with its subsidiaries, 
“Siemens Energy ”), under which the majority of the energy business of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft 
(together with its subsidiaries, “ Siemens ”) will be bundled. It is intended to admit the shares in Siemens 
Energy to trading on the regulated market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. This document does not 
constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase or 
subscribe for, any shares or other securities of Siemens or Siemens Energy in any jurisdiction.
This document contains statements relating to the future business and financial performance and future 
events or developments involving Siemens and Siemens Energy that may constitute forward -looking 
statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “look forward to”, “anticipate”, 
“intend”, “plan”, “believe”, “seek”, “estimate”, “will”, “project” or words of similar meaning. Such statements 
are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions, of which many are beyond Siemens’ and 
Siemens Energy’s control. These are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of 
these risks or uncertainties materialize, should decisions, assessments or requirements of regulatory 
authorities deviate from our expectations, or should underlying expectations not occur or assumptions prove 
incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements of Siemens or Siemens Energy may (negatively or 
positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward -looking 
statement. Neither Siemens nor Siemens Energy intend, nor assume any obligation, to update or revise 
these forward -looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.The information and opinions contained in this document are provided as at the date of this presentation 
and are subject to change without notice. They do not purport to contain all information that may be required 
to evaluate Siemens or Siemens Energy and have not been verified independently. Historical financial or 
operative information contained in this document has been taken or derived from Siemens’ financial 
statements, accounting records or management reporting. The combined financial statements for Siemens 
Energy are currently being prepared. These may deviate substantially from the information included in this 
document. The information in this document is of a preliminary and abbreviated nature and may be subject 
to updating, revision and amendment, and such information may change materially. In addition, the 
historical financial and operative information included in this document does not necessarily fully reflect 
changes that will occur when Siemens Energy operates as a separate group of companies. Accordingly, 
such information is not necessarily indicative for the future consolidated results of operations, financial 
position or cash flows of the prospective Siemens Energy business on a stand -alone basis.
This document includes –in the applicable financial reporting framework not clearly defined –supplemental 
financial measures that are or may be alternative performance measures (non -GAAP -measures). These 
supplemental financial measures should not be viewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of 
Siemens’ or Siemens Energy’s net assets and financial positions or results of operations as presented in 
accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework in its consolidated financial statements and 
combined financial statements, respectively. Other companies that report or describe similarly titled 
alternative performance measures may calculate them differently. Due to rounding, numbers presented 
throughout thisand other documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may 
not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
This document contains forecasts, statistics, data and other information relating to markets, market sizes, 
market shares, market positions and other industry data on Siemens’ or Siemens Energy’s business and 
markets (together the “ market data ”) provided by third party sources as interpreted by us. This market data 
is, in part, derived from published research and additional market studies prepared primarily as a research 
tool and reflects estimates of market conditions based on research methodologies including primary 
research, secondary sources and econometric modelling, which may not be representative.