Strengthening Industrial 
Heat Pump Innovation
Decarbonizing Industrial Heat


Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 3Strengthening Industrial 
Heat Pump Innovation
Decarbonizing Industrial Heat
Authors:
Robert de Boer, TNO 
Andrew Marina, TNO
Benjamin Zühlsdorf, DTI 
Cordin Arpagaus, NTB
Michael Bantle, SINTEF 
Veronika Wilk, AIT
Brian Elmegaard, DTU
José Corberán, UPValencia
Jessica Benson, RISE

4 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat

Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 5
MANAGEMENT SUMMARY
Industrial processes are currently responsible for 20 % of total 
greenhouse gas emissions in Europe. In order to stay within 
the 1.5°C scenario of the Paris Climate Agreement, measures 
to reduce these greenhouse gas emissions from industry are 
urgently needed. This paper highlights the role heat pump 
technologies can ful/f_i  l in realizing signi/f_i  cant reductions in 
CO2 emissions arising from industrial process heating. 
Industrial heat pumps are a highly energy eﬃ   cient, cross-
cutting technology to provide process heat. Driven by electric 
power, heat pumps are a key electri/f_i  cation technology which 
are able to replace a large share of fossil fuelled industrial 
process heating. The research institutes involved in RD&D of 
heat pump solutions propose a European industrial heat 
pump program, designed to accelerate the implementation 
and further development of this low carbon technology. 
Unlocking the bene/f_i  ts of heat pump technology requires a 
set of coherent measures. This includes creating a regulatory 
framework that facilitates the acceptance of industrial heat 
pumps, setting up a European information and knowledge 
base on heat pump technologies and process integration as 
well as the establishment of an RD&D program that supports 
the strengthening and growth of industrial heat pump appli-
cations.

6 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat
“Limiting the global mean temperature rise to 
below 2°C with a probability of 68 % would 
require an energy transition of exceptional 
scope, depth and speed”
International Energy Agency
Perspectives for the energy transition

Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 7
The consumption of fossil fuels and the 
associated emission of greenhouse gases (GHG) 
are widely attributed to being the dominant 
cause of observed global warming. To limit the 
global warming within 1.5°C, the transition to a 
sustainable energy system is needed.
For Europe to achieve its ambition of net-zero 
GHG emissions by 2050, radical changes to the 
current energy supply in the industrial sectors 
are necessary. A focus on the industry is needed 
as it is currently responsible for 25 % of /f_i  nal 
energy consumption (FEC)1 and 20 % of 
the GHG emissions2 (not including indirect 
emissions attributed to external energy supply) 
in EU-28 countries. The majority (66 %) of 
industrial energy use is for process heating 
purposes1,3, meaning that the sustainable 
supply and eﬃ   cient use of heat should be at 
the forefront of any decarbonization strategy for 
industry.
Industrial heat pumps can play an important 
role in improving the energy eﬃ   ciency of 
industrial processes, while simultaneously 
driving a switch from fossil fuels to renewable 
electricity as an energy source. This paper 
proposes industrial heat pumps as a technology 
for decarbonization of the low temperature 
(<200°C) heat supply within industry.  Conside-
ring the process heat in this temperature range 
as the main market for industrial heat pumps, 
there are two distinct segments, depending on 
the temperature level:
- Applications up to 100°C which can be 
covered by mature heat pump technologies
- Applications in the range of 100°C to 200°C 
for which heat pump suppliers and technical 
developments are required to meet the 
market needsThe implementation of industrial heat pumps 
aligns closely with the strategic priority of 
EU-2050 to build a competitive EU industry 
and circular economy as key enabler to reach 
carbon neutrality4. Furthermore, it will support 
the EU’s 2030 targets to increase energy 
eﬃ   ciency by 32 % and reduce emissions by 
40 %, while fostering industrial competitiveness, 
and creating opportunities for growth and 
jobs5.
This whitepaper describes the current heating 
demands of industrial processes and quanti/f_i  es 
its current contribution to EU’s overall CO2 
emissions. It explains the working principle of 
heat pumps and gives an illustration of the 
integration of heat pump technology in 
industrial heating processes, demonstrating 
how heat can be generated in a circular and 
sustainable manner. The energy saving and CO2 
emission reduction potential of industrial heat 
pumps is estimated based on the current and 
near future available industrial heat pump 
technologies. Starting from the current status of 
industrial heat pump technology and imple-
mentation, the required steps to unlock this 
vast emission reduction potential are described. 
The paper concludes with recommended 
actions that will strengthen the technical and 
economic position of industrial heat pumps, 
accelerate its implementation, and contribute 
to the targeted CO2 emission reduction 
potential.  1. INTRODUCTION

8 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat
 “Most of the thermal energy is produced from 
fossil fuels (66 %) and only 13 % comes from 
renewable energies”
Heat Roadmap Europe
Heating and cooling: facts and /f_i  gures
Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 9
The industrial sector is responsible for the 
production of numerous intermediates and 
end use products, with large scale input of raw 
materials and energy. Despite a reduction in the 
energy consumption per unit added value (i.e. 
energy intensity) in the last decades, total 
industrial energy use has increased due to 
disparately higher production output.
Figure 1 presents an overview of the industrial 
energy demand in the EU by broad application. 
The bulk of the energy consumption is driven 
by the demand for thermal energy, responsible 
for 2390 TWh/a3 or 81 %1,3 of the total energy 
demand. The thermal energy use can broadly be 
divided into four end-use categories: process 
heating, process cooling, space heating and 
space cooling. The demand for process heating is 
dominant, accounting for 66 % of the total /f_i  nal 
energy demand. Figure 1 also presents an 
overview of this industrial process heat demand 
by temperature level. This paper makes a distinction between low temperature (<200°C) 
and high temperature (>200°C) process heat 
responsible for 37 % and 63 % of the total 
process heating requirements respectively.
The fuel source that is used to ful/f_i  ll the process 
heating demand is also depicted in Figure 1.
The choice of fuel or heating technology used 
for a given process depends on a number of 
factors, such as the structure of a speci/f_i  c 
industrial sub-sector or in which country the 
process is located. The current industrial process 
heat demand is primarily (78 %) covered by fossil 
fuel sources. Gas is the largest fuel source (36 %), 
with still large shares of coal (20 %) and oil (8 %) 
being used. The CO2 emissions resulting from 
the use of these fossil fuels for process heating 
by industry is estimated to be 552 Mt/a,3,6  
comparable to car emissions within EU-28 
(550 Mt/a)7. Relatively small shares are covered 
by more sustainable sources such as biomass 
(11 %) or electricity (3 %).2. INDUSTRIAL HEAT 
Total energy demand - 2950 TWh/a Process heating demand - 1952 TWh/a
Process heating
(66 %)> 500ºC 
(52 %)Biomass 
(11 %)
Others - fossil 
(13 %)
Coal 
(20 %)
Gas 
(36 %)Oil 
(8 %)Distric heating   (8 %)Electricity       (3 %)Others - RES
(0.4 %)RES
Mix
Non-RES200ºC - 500ºC 
(11 %)
100ºC - 200ºC 
(26 %)
< 100ºC 
(11 %)
Temperature Fuel sourceNon-thermal
(19 %)
Space 
heating
(11 %)Process 
cooling
(3 %)
Space 
cooling
(1 %)
Figure 1: Breakdown of the /f_i  nal energy demand in European industry by broad application (left) and process heating 
demand by temperature level (centre) and energy source (right) (RES = renewable energy sources) 
Data source: 1,3
10 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat
“Medium temperature heat-pumps (functioning 
well above 100°C), would present a viable 
alternative for must-run medium temperature 
boilers and will lower overall energy demand 
from industry as these are expected to be – just 
like the low temperature heat-pumps – more 
eﬃ   cient than electric, hybrid or 
dual-system boilers”
McKinsey & Company
Energy transition: Mission (im)possible for industry?
Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 11
Wide spread application of industrial heat 
pump technology promises to provide added 
value to the European community on nume-
rous fronts. Speci/f_i  cally, unlocking the potential 
of this technology will achieve the following 
main outcomes:
– Transition multiple industrial sectors to a 
sustainable heat supply
– Provide large reductions in primary and /f_i  nal 
energy consumption as well as CO2 emissions
– Oﬀ  er a lower cost process heating alternative 
to end-users when compared with compe-
ting or existing technologies
– Drive technical innovations, stimulating the 
creation of numerous jobs and contributing 
signi/f_i  cantly to growth of the European 
economy
The rest of this section is dedicated to outlining 
the manner in which application of industrial 
heat pumps facilitates these outcomes. 
Additionally, limited examples of industrial heat 
pump applications are provided to demonstra-
te the added value which the technology 
already provides.
Heat pumps for process heating
Industrial heat pumps are a technology which 
can upgrade the temperature of a waste heat 
source such that it can be re-used within a 
process, with the input of electric power. 
They are a cross-cutting technology option 
which can be implemented in both new and 
existing process operations. A simpli/f_i  ed 
comparative energy /f_l  ow diagram can be seen in Figure 2 for two industrial processes, one 
which uses a fossil fuel source and another 
which uses a heat pump for the process 
heating requirements. 
The process driven by fossil fuels requires 
110 % of the heat required by the process, as 
approximately 10 % of the heat is lost after 
combustion to the ambient in /f_l  ue gases. After 
the heat is used in the process, the temperature 
is too low to be reused and therefore, the 
entirety of the process heat (100 %) is released 
into the ambient. 
For the process using a heat pump, the heat 
discarded to ambient is reduced to 25 % of the 
process heat demand. With 75 % of the total 
waste heat reused by upgrading the tempera-
ture level through the use of the heat pump, 
the process heat delivered (100 %) exceeds the 
electricity input (25 %) by a factor of 4.
This value, i.e. the ratio of the heat delivered, to 
the electricity input, is known as the coeﬃ   cient 
of performance (COP) and is an important 
parameter characterizing the eﬃ   ciency of the 
heat pump. This value will usually be in the 
range of 2 to 5, depending on the waste heat 
and process heat temperatures. Therefore, 
rather than simple use and disposal of energy 
in the original process, implementing a heat 
pump achieves a large degree of energy 
circularity, increasing the overall eﬃ   ciency of 
the process.3. ADDED/hyphen.capVALUE AND 
 APPLICATION OF 
 INDUSTRIAL HEAT PUMPS
12 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial HeatFigure 2: Comparison of fossil fuel driven and heat pump driven industrial process schemes.Fossil fuel
110 %Flue gases
10 %
ProcessProcess hea t
100 %Waste hea t
100 %
 
Steam boiler
Process hea t
Fossil fuel (η = ≈90 %/parenright.cap100 % 
CO2 emissions Fossil fuel driven
Elec tric
power
25 %Waste hea t recovery
 75 % Waste hea t
25 %Process hea t
100 %
ProcessProcess hea t
Elec tric po werCOP = = 4.0Hea t pump
( )20 % - 33 %
CO  emissions  Heat pump driven
With 100 % share of renewables in the future 
electricity mix, heat pumps become a techno-
logy with zero CO2 footprint. Regardless of this, 
with the current electricity mix and due to the 
high eﬃ   ciencies (COPs) in which heat pumps 
operate, implementing this technology will directly 
lead to a reduction in both /f_i  nal and primary 
energy consumption and CO2 emissions. This is 
illustrated in Figure 2. With the implementation 
of a heat pump, emissions are reduced to 33 % (67 % reduction) of those of the process driven 
by fossil fuels, based on the current European 
average CO2 emission intensity for electricity 
production8. In the case the electricity system is 
fully decarbonized, the emissions for the heat 
pump driven process reduce to zero (100 % 
reduction). It is clear, that with increasing shares 
of renewables in the electricity mix, implemen-
tation of heat pumps becomes a robust, 
no-regret option for industry.
Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 13Transitioning 
industry to the  USE  
of RENEWABLE 
electricityPulp and Paper
/two.fitted/three.fitted/zero.fitted TWh/a
Machinery
/four.fitted/one.fitted TWh/a
Non Metallic Minerals
/four.fitted/three.fitted TWh/aFood & Beverage 
/one.fitted/two.fitted/three.fitted TWh/a
Chemical
/one.fitted/one.fitted/nine.fitted TWh/aHIGH POTENTIAL
Industry Sectors
–CO2
Heatpumps for 
DECARBONIZATION  of 
the LOW TEMPERATURE
heat supply in industry/two.fitted/zero.fitted/zero.fitted°C
REDUCING  final 
energy consumption by 
/four.fitted/eight.fitted/seven.fitted TWh/aRE/hyphen.capUSE  of 
industrial waste heat, 
leading to  INCREASED  
process  EFFICIENCYPotential to cover 
/three.fitted/seven.fitted%  
of the process heat 
in industryPossible CO/two.fitted emission
REDUCTIONS  of
/one.fitted/four.fitted/six.fitted Mt/a
Application potential
Developments in the last decades have enabled 
heat pumps to provide process heat up to 
100°C with proven technical concepts and 
components. Despite the availability and 
potential of the technology, it is currently not 
utilized extensively by the industry. Even for 
new capacity and applications at these low 
temperatures, fossil fuel /f_i  red process heating 
equipment is the standard. Regardless of the 
lack of uptake of the technology, heat pumps 
for temperatures up to 100°C have the potential 
to cover 222 TWh/a or 11 % of the process 
heating demand in European industry. 
This could lead to CO2 emission reductions in 
the order of 51 Mt/a.3,6
At present, there are a limited number of 
suppliers able to provide systems for tempera-
tures higher than 100°C. In general, these 
systems are not considered to be mature 
technology. In the case that heat pumps also 
become a mature technology for the supply 
of heat in the temperature range of 100°C to 
200°C, an additional 508 TWh/a or 26 % of the 
total process heat demand can potentially be 
emission free, with potential additional CO2 
reductions in the order of 95 Mt/a.3,6
Combining the two market segments, 
(i.e. applications up to 100°C and applications in 
the range of 100°C to 200°C) heat pumps could  deliver 730 TWh/a or 37 % of the process heat in 
industry, with a corresponding CO2 emission 
reduction potential in the order of 146 Mt/a.
Being a cross-cutting technology, heat pumps 
will be applicable to multiple industrial sub-
sectors. Assuming that heat pumps can reach 
temperatures of 200°C, they will have high 
potential for the pulp and paper (230 TWh/a) 
food and beverage (123 TWh/a), chemical 
(119 TWh/a), non-metallic minerals (43 TWh/a) 
and machinery (41 TWh/a) sectors.3,9
     
 
14 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial HeatHeat pumps in the food sector
The /f_i  rst heat pump applications are being applied in the food and beverage sector, which 
traditionally has the most experience with this technology as refrigeration equipment. The 
need for simultaneous heating and cooling in the food industry is itself a driver for /f_i  rst heat 
pump applications. Cooling of products will produce waste heat at temperatures above 
ambient, which can be upgraded using a heat pump to satisfy the process heating require-
ments. Coupling process heating and cooling needs through the use of a heat pump will result 
in high process eﬃ   ciencies and low operational costs. As such, this solution is gaining traction 
in the market. It is expected that the experience gained from the use of heat pumps in this way 
can be transferred to utilise a multitude of waste heat streams in both the food sector as well as 
in other industrial sectors.
How does a heat pump work?
Technically, heat pumps are a piece of process heating equipment which can upgrade the 
temperature of a waste heat source such that it can be reused in the process with the input of electrical 
energy. Whilst there are numerous technical and thermodynamic possibilities for realizing heat 
pumps, the market is dominated by vapor compression cycles, the same technology as used 
almost exclusively for (household, domestic, industrial) cooling and refrigeration applications.
Figure 3 shows a simpli/f_i  ed technical process layout of a vapor compression heat pump.  
The arrows which are overlaid by the heat pump components, depict the /f_l  ow of energy to, from 
and through the system. In order to transfer the energy from a waste heat source to produce 
process heat, a working /f_l  uid or refrigerant is present within the system, which undergoes 
various processes and state changes as it is circulated through the various components. In the 
lowest temperature (and pressure) part of the system, the evaporator, waste heat is transferred 
to the refrigerant, transforming it from primarily a liquid state to a vapor. This vapor is then com-
pressed to a high pressure and temperature using the compressor, which requires mechanical 
work and therefore an electrical input. The high temperature (and pressure) vapor releases heat 
to be used within the process in the condenser, in-turn transforming the refrigerant to a liquid. 
The high pressure liquid refrigerant is reduced to a low pressure (and temperature) using an 
expansion device, where it enters the evaporator, and the process repeats once more.
As seen by the energy /f_l  ow depiction, the process heat generated by the heat pump is the sum 
of the electrical input and the heat input from the waste heat source. An important characteris-
tic of heat pump systems is that the process heat output is usually a factor of 2 to 5 times larger 
than the electrical energy input. The ratio of the heat output to the electrical energy input, 
known as the coeﬃ   cient of performance (COP), is an important metric which indicates the 
eﬃ   ciency of a given heat pump. Whilst the COP is dependent on numerous factors, it can be 
concluded that it typically will reduce as the temperature diﬀ  erence between the available 
waste heat and the required process heat increases.
Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 15ELECTRICITYPROCESS
HEAT
WASTE
HEATCondenser
Expansion
valveHigh
temper ature
liquid
Low
temper ature
liquid/vaporHigh
temperatur e
vapor
Low
temperatur e
vaporCompr essor
Evaporat or
Figure 3: Technical process layout of a vapor compression heat pump with the energy /f_l  ow depicted
16 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial HeatBusiness case for industrial heat pumps
The decision to invest in a heat pump is 
generally determined by assessing the trade-oﬀ   
between the capital expenditure (investment) 
needed to purchase and install the heat pump 
versus the reduced operational (energy) costs 
resulting from the heat pump investment. The 
simple payback period is commonly used to 
assess this trade-oﬀ  . Payback periods deman-
ded by industry are typically in the range of 1 to 
2 years, although this can be extended to the 
range of 2 to 5 years under certain circumstan-
ces.
The capital costs of a heat pump include the 
cost of the heat pump itself, the associated 
ancillary equipment costs, and costs associated 
with installation and integration, including 
labour. There is no general rule of thumb for 
the capital cost or speci/f_i  c investment cost (cost 
per unit heat output) of a heat pump. The cost 
of the heat pump itself depends on numerous 
factors, most notably the heating capacity, 
temperature levels, and the process and waste 
heat mediums. Integration costs are also highly 
variable depending on, for example, the 
complexity and required modi/f_i  cations to the 
process. This is especially the case for existing 
processes. Despite the multitude of diﬀ  erent 
factors, the speci/f_i  c investment cost generally 
decreases with increasing system size.
Ultimately, the business case for an industrial 
heat pump will be dependent on the achieva-
ble operational cost savings. The achievable 
COP of the heat pump will be an important 
parameter in determining the operational cost 
savings from installing a heat pump. A higher 
COP results in a lower electricity consumption 
for a given heat pump application. The cost of 
this electricity for operation of the heat pump 
should be compared to the alternative energy 
source which the heat pump would replace. This is not always trivial, as the cost of various 
energy sources is highly variable on a site, 
regional, country or even temporal basis.
In general, heat pumps will be an attractive 
option in scenarios where the electricity price 
is low relative to the cost of the alternative 
energy source (e.g. natural gas). To illustrate the 
variation in energy prices on a country basis, 
Figure 4 shows the ratio of electricity to gas 
prices in numerous countries for small scale 
industrial end-users. Whilst these numbers are 
reasonably indicative for each country, the /f_i  nal 
ratio for each end-user will depend on the total 
energy use, as well as the relative amounts of 
gas and electricity required. The /f_i  gure shows 
that the price ratio varies signi/f_i  cantly on a country 
basis, from less than 2 in the case of Norway, 
Finland and Sweden to over 4 in the case of 
Belgium, the UK, Italy and Germany. This variation 
in electricity and gas prices can be a signi/f_i  cant 
barrier to industrial heat pump uptake in some 
countries. For instance, applications which have 
a payback period of 1 year in Norway, may have 
a payback period which exceeds 10 years in 
Germany under the current conditions.
Considering the future business case for 
industrial heat pumps, with the current EU 
climate targets, it may be expected that natural 
gas will be subject to increasing costs resulting 
from the associated taxes on CO2 emissions. 
Possible process heating utilities which are able 
to ful/f_i  l the requirements of EU-2050 targets 
include electrical heaters, biomass-based 
boilers, heat pumps, electro-fuels (such as green 
hydrogen) or natural gas in combination with 
carbon capture. Comparing these alternatives, 
it has been shown that high temperature heat 
pumps, with COPs as low as 2, are competitive 
in levelized cost of heat with biomass boilers 
and natural-gas based boilers under considera-
tion of a CO2 tax of 50 €/tonne11.
Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 17 1.0
 1.5
 2.0
 2.5
 3.0
 3.5
 4.0
 4.5
 5.0
Figure 4: Comparison of current electricity to gas price ratio in European countries for small scale industrial end-users 
(2 GWh/a to 20 GWh/a electricity, 3 GWh/a to 28 GWh/a gas)
Data source: 10
18 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial HeatIndustrial heat pump value chain
The European heat pump sector employs a 
well-trained workforce in R&D, component 
and heat pump manufacturing, installers, and 
service and maintenance. A recent European 
Heat Pump Association report described the 
industry as an economic force and provider of 
local labor12. The expansion of the sector to 
establish products and solutions for industrial 
applications will further drive innovations, 
stimulating the creation of numerous jobs and 
contributing signi/f_i  cantly to the European 
economy. Under the assumption that an 
industrial heat pump market can be established 
within Europe with a market rollout of 5 % total 
potential per year (37 TWh/a), total turnover for 
the entire value chain is estimated to be in 
order of €2.3 billion/a, leading to the creation 
of 14,500 new jobs. Technology export will 
facilitate the creation of further revenue and 
jobs.
In a time of economic recovery post coronavi-
rus, stimulating the creation and rollout of the 
industrial heat pump market will promote a 
secure and stable economy. This action will 
align economic recovery with EU’s climate and 
sustainability goals and prevent further lock-in 
scenarios for fossil based technologies. 
Integration of heat pumps in industrial 
processes
An electrically driven heat pump is process 
equipment, which is con/f_i  gured with compres-
sors, heat exchangers, valves, vessels and piping. 
The modular nature ensures that the technology 
is /f_l  exible and it may be developed and installed 
for a broad range of applications, capacities and 
temperature levels. This, however, also indicates 
that there are several potential solutions for a 
given application, and that the right choice will 
depend on performance, eﬃ   ciency, investment, 
technology readiness level, and regulations. Compared to conventional steam-based 
systems heated by fuel combustion in a boiler, 
heat pump technology oﬀ  ers highly diﬀ  erent 
options, ranging from intrinsic integration into 
a given process, integration at the process unit 
level, or as replacement for a central heating 
system. 
Intrinsic integration into a process can require 
little additional process equipment and at the 
same time achieve the highest COP , as 
high as 20 units heating per unit electricity 
consumed. However, at the same time it may 
lead to signi/f_i  cant changes to the process and 
conditions, the feasibility of which may need to 
be assessed.
By installing a dedicated heat pump at the 
process unit, it is possible to operate at lowest 
possible temperature lifts and reach a high COP 
for a range of processes. The COP is highly 
dependent on the actual temperature levels of 
the heat source and sink, and may reach up to 
8, when the temperature lift is 20°C.
A central heat pump solution substituting an 
existing heating installation will require fewer 
changes in the process. This solution will have a 
lower COP because the generation of steam for 
the central utility system requires a higher 
temperature that is suﬃ   cient for all processes. 
This solution is likely to be implemented in the 
/f_i  rst instance when considering retro/f_i  tting heat 
pumps to existing processes.
Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 19
Figure 5: Heat pump installation at Hutten slaughterhouseExamples of existing industrial heat pump 
applications
Whilst not currently being the reference 
heating technology, numerous instances 
of heat pumps in an industrial setting exist. We have included the following examples of 
existing industrial heat pump applications to 
showcase their positive impacts on energy 
savings and CO2 emission reductions.
Hutten slaughterhouse
Mohrenbrauerei breweryA prime example of process electri/f_i  cation 
through the use of heat pumps is seen in the 
Hutten slaughterhouse in the Netherlands (see 
Figure 5). Low temperature process heat is 
delivered by a heat pump which utilizes and 
upgrades the temperature of heat rejected from the refrigeration plant of the facility. 
The remaining high temperature heat demand 
is produced from an electric boiler.  The 
combination of the technologies, has elimina-
ted the use of all fossil fuels for the site.13
A similar solution is in operation at the Austrian 
brewery Mohrenbrauerei which has installed a 
370 kW heat pump including a heat storage unit. The heat pump saves the burning of 
1.8 GWh/a of fossil fuels and had a payback 
period of less than 6 years.14
20 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat
Figure 6: Heat pump installation at Arla Videbæk dairyArla Videbæk dairy
A Danish dairy, Arla Videbæk, has installed a 
heat pump for preheating in a spray drying unit 
(see Figure 6). The heat pump has a COP of 4.5. 
It has been shown to save 4.6 GWh of fossil fuels and more than 1,400 tonnes of CO2 emissions 
per year. The payback period was 1.5 years 
including subsidies, while it would have been 
2.3 years without.15,16
Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 21
Figure 7: Heat pump installed at the Marienhütte steel and rolling mill  Source: 17Marienhütte steel and rolling mill
Tine dairy
The Norwegian dairy producer Tine has 
integrated a heat pump for combined heating 
and cooling for all processes in their factory. 
The plant does not use any fossil based heating, 
thereby reducing the greenhouse gas emissions 
to zero. The energy consumption is reduced by 
40 % or 5 GWh per year. The heat pump has a 
heating capacity of 940 kW with a heating COP 
of 5. The system won the “Heat Pump City of 
the Year Award 2019” in the category “Decarb-
industry” .19Appenzell – Industrial symbiosis
Heat pumps also accommodate industrial 
symbiosis. In Appenzell, Switzerland, the excess 
heat from a data centre is used as heat source 
for a high-temperature heat pump used in a 
neighbouring cheese factory to produce 
process heat (>90°C), hot water and heat for 
buildings. This saves the mountain cheese 
factory around 1.5 GWh of natural gas per 
year.20At the Austrian steel and rolling mill Marienhüt-
te in Graz, two large heat pumps were installed 
(see Figure 7), that are able to supply heat at a 
temperature up to 95°C with a heating capacity 
of 6 MW to 11 MW. They use waste heat from 
the steel and rolling mill at a temperature of about 30°C to 35°C as heat source that would 
otherwise be dissipated to the environment. 
Through the installation of the heat pumps, 
the burning of 46 GWh of fossil fuels can be 
avoided, resulting in annual reductions in CO2 
emissions of 11,700 tonnes.17,18
22 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat
“The main goal is to overcome still existing 
diﬃ   culties and barriers for the larger scale 
market introduction of industrial heat pumps. 
Results should be concentrated on the develop-
ment and distribution of condensed and clear 
information material for policy makers, 
associations and industries. ”
IEA Heat Pumping Technologies
Annex 48: Industrial heat pumps, second phase

Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 23
Existing Barriers 
IEA HPP-IETS Annex 35/13 “Application of 
industrial Heat Pumps”14,21, which concluded in 
2014, was initiated to actively contribute to the 
reduction of energy consumption and GHG 
emissions through the increased implementati-
on of heat pumps in industry. The Annex’s /f_i  nal 
report indicated that despite the bene/f_i  ts and 
availability of industrial heat pump technology, 
implementation is limited for a number of 
reasons. As presented in 2014, these barriers are 
still valid today, the main ones being:
- The integration of heat pumps in industry 
requires knowledge of both the capabilities 
of heat pumps as well as the underlying 
process in which they can be applied. 
Currently, there are limited installers and 
decision makers which possess this combined 
knowledge.
- Many end-users have a lack of awareness of 
their heating requirements or consumption, 
meaning identifying heat pump integration 
opportunities is laborious or largely time 
consuming.
- In some cases, the technology is available, 
but high payback periods lead end-users to 
conclude that no feasible business case exists for 
installation of a heat pump. The high payback 
periods can be attributed to high initial capital 
costs, or to an unfavourable price of electrici-
ty relative to the alternative fossil source. 
- In many cases, the technology for a speci/f_i  c 
application is not available. For instance, the 
process temperature level is higher than what 
can be delivered by commercially available 
heat pump technology.Additional barriers to those presented above 
include :
- There is a limited number of manufacturers of 
heat pump equipment, particularly for higher 
temperature applications. In most cases, this 
can be attributed to manufacturers having 
limited understanding of the market and 
application potential. In other cases, it can be 
attributed to manufacturers viewing develop-
ment of products for the (high temperature) 
industrial market as a high-risk project with a 
long payback time, even if they are establis-
hed in the market for lower temperatures.
- End-users are subjected to uncertainties in 
the boundary conditions (gas, electricity, CO2 
price) which determine the business case for 
a heat pump. This uncertainty hinders the 
decision making process when implementing 
a new technology.
- There have been limited cases to demon strate 
and prove the reliability of novel heat pump 
technology in an industrial environment. 
A limited amount of demonstrations over 
short time periods is not suﬃ   cient to intro-
duce a new technology to the market.
Current situation of RD&D on industrial 
heat pumps
This whitepaper has shown that there is a large 
application potential for industrial heat pumps, 
but also a variety of processes and boundary 
conditions into which the heat pumps must be 
integrated. To achieve optimal performances 
(e.g. technical, economic, environmental) across 
a broad range of applications in industrial 
processes requires the development of a range 
of technologies to cover the market potential. 4. BARRIERS TO INDUSTRIAL 
 HEAT PUMP APPLICATION 

24 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial HeatFurthermore, there is a market segment, namely 
for the temperature range of 100°C to 200°C 
for which products and technical solutions still 
have to be developed and demonstrated. For 
these reasons, the research institutes involved 
in the preparation of this whitepaper are 
striving to advance heat pump technology for 
industrial applications in national and internati-
onal RD&D projects.
Currently, the development of heat pumps for 
the process industry is driven by scattered 
national initiatives which are very much 
targeted towards local industry sectors. 
The main motivation for these development 
projects is typically focused towards operational 
cost saving potential, which results from the 
energy savings. On a European level, the low 
priority of industrial heat pumps on the 
research agenda means that only a limited 
number of projects (FP7, Horizon2020) 
containing heat pump developments have 
been undertaken in recent years. 
Below, a list of RD&D projects within Europe is 
given, which demonstrates that it is possible 
to unlock the potential of industrial heat pumps 
with the right initiatives and entrepreneurial 
spirit:
Nationally funded projects
1. SkaleUp (SINTEF): Heat pump solution for 
combined process cooling (0°C to 4°C) 
and process heating (90°C to 110°C) with 
a combined COP of 2.8, resulting in the 
reduction of CO2 emissions to near-zero.
2. LowCapex and FUSE (TNO): Demonstration 
of heat pump technology on an industrial 
scale (2 MW), producing process steam at 
temperatures between 120°C to 150°C from 
waste heat at 60°C to 90°C with eﬃ   ciencies 
above 50 % of the theoretical maximum. 
The heat pumps developed within these projects have the potential to reduce 
emissions between 20 % to 35 % compared 
to the reference scenario. (Figure 8)
3. Eﬃ   ciency in Industrial Processes (SCCER: 
Swiss Competence Center for Energy 
Research): The goal is to create energy 
eﬃ   cient technologies and components which 
can be applied in many diﬀ  erent processes 
such as steam and heat generation and 
applied to numerous industries, allowing 
for energy savings between 20 % to 50 % 
with respect to common technologies.
www.sccer-eip.ch
4. SuPrHeat (DTI/DTU) – Development and 
demonstration of three pilot scale (500 kW) 
high temperature heat pump technologies 
based on natural refrigerants, for supplying 
process heat up to 200°C. The project also 
develops methods for heat pump integrati-
on in existing plants and new process 
equipment for dairies, slaughterhouses, 
breweries and other industry sectors.
5. SteamHP – Steam-based heat pump systems 
(DTI): Development, demonstration and 
long-term testing of a highly eﬃ   cient 
evaporator using a turbo-compressor, which 
is based on an automobile turbo-charger.
European funded projects
1. BAMBOO (AIT): Development and demon-
stration of a heat pump steam generator 
for low pressure steam up to 150°C.
 www.bambooproject.eu/project
2. DryFiciency (AIT): Demonstration and 
integration of three high temperature heat 
pump technologies in the production plants 
of starch, brick and waste treatment processes. 
The heat pump technology can produce 
heat at temperatures up to 160°C, reducing 
CO2 emissions by up to 75 %. (Figure 9).
 www.dry/f_i  ciency.eu 
Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 253.  CHESTER (TECNALIA): Assessment of the 
possibility of storing low price electricity 
as heat at a high temperature with a heat 
pump, and then producing electricity at the 
highest price periods, by employing the 
stored heat to produce electricity by means 
of an ORC generator. The CHESTER high 
temperature heat pump must reach tempe-
ratures around 140°C in order to charge 
the phase change material of the thermal 
energy store, which stores heat at 133°C.
 www.chester-project.eu/Whilst the current approach to RD&D on 
industrial heat pumps has led to impressive 
individual results, it is limited in the ability 
to ensure the technology reaches a level of 
maturity to achieve the meaningful CO2 
reductions, which are otherwise possible. 
Undertaking heat pump developments on a 
project by project basis, mainly through national-
ly funded incentives, prevents coordination of 
essential development activities, the sharing of 
critical knowledge and continuity of develop-
ment.  A more programmatic approach on a 
European level is needed to address these issues.
Figure 8: Heat pump 
developed within the 
framework of the LowCapex 
project (NL)
Figure 9: Heat pump 
developed within the 
framework of the DryFiciency 
project (AT)
26 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat
“To keep its competitive advantage in clean 
technologies, the EU needs to increase 
signi/f_i  cantly the large-scale deployment and 
demonstration of new technologies across 
sectors and across the single market, building 
new innovative value chains. ”
European Commission
The European Green Deal

Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 27
The research institutes involved in the 
preparation of this whitepaper have set out the 
following ambitions and objectives for the period 
2020 to 2025, which will lay the foundation for 
a developed industrial heat pump market and 
establish industrial heat pumps as a mature 
technology for increased application areas. 
The key ambitions are as follows:
 Heat pump technology is established as 
the reference (low carbon) technology 
for heat supply <100°C, with at least 
500 large scale (1 MW to 10 MW) units 
installed in industry and other relevant 
application areas. (TRL9)
 Demonstration of 25 full-scale (1 MW to 
10 MW) industrial heat pumps to supply 
heat in the range of 100°C to 150°C, 
installed at end-user locations in various 
sectors and countries. (TRL8)
 Up to 5 pilot scale (with ±100 kW 
heating capacity) demonstration 
projects to validate the technical 
feasibility of industrial heat pumps to 
supply heat beyond 150°C. (TRL6-7)
 Development of 3 technologies at a 
laboratory scale (1 kW to 10 kW), 
demonstrating the technical feasibility of 
heat pump concepts to supply heat at 
temperatures above 200°C. (TRL3-5) Establishment of 3 new refrigerants, 
which are suitable for use in heat pumps 
supplying heat in the range of 150°C to 
250°C, which have been demonstrated 
in parallel with natural working media 
alternatives.
 Establishment of multiple knowledge, 
component and system suppliers for 
industrial heat pumps, which are able 
to supply the market with technical 
solutions that can deliver heat up to 150°C.
 Industrial heat pumps which are an 
integral part of standard process 
equipment (dryers, distillation units, 
other processes) have become 
commercially available.
 Realization of 5 projects in the frame-
work of Horizon Europe, which have 
resolved the key market barriers that 
have so far prevented industrial heat 
pumps from achieving wide-scale 
implementation.
 Industrial heat pumps are high on 
the European R&D agenda and are 
recognized as key technology for the 
EU-decarbonization strategy of industrial 
heat demand below 200°C.
 Establishment of uniform testing 
standards for determining the perfor-
mance of industrial heat pump units.5. AMBITIONS FOR INDUSTRIAL  
 HEAT PUMP IMPLEMENTATION 
 AND DEVELOPMENT 
<100ºC
>200ºC>100ºC >150ºC
A
B
C
D<100ºC
>200ºC>100ºC >150ºC
A
B
C
D<100ºC
>200ºC>100ºC >150ºC
A
B
C
D
<100ºC
>200ºC>100ºC >150ºC
A
B
C
D<100ºC
>200ºC>100ºC >150ºC
A
B
C
D <100ºC
>200ºC>100ºC >150ºC
A
B
C
D<100ºC
>200ºC>100ºC >150ºC
A
B
C
D<100ºC
>200ºC>100ºC >150ºC
A
B
C
D<100ºC
>200ºC>100ºC >150ºC
A
B
C
D

28 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat
“Today, the costs of some of the advanced 
low-carbon energy carriers and technologies 
remain high, and their availability is limited. 
A massive research, coordinated and innovation 
eﬀ  ort, built around a coherent strategic research 
and innovation and investment agenda is 
needed in the EU within the next two decades 
to make low and zero-carbon solutions econo-
mically viable and bring about new solutions 
not yet mature or even known to the market. ”
European Commission
A clean planet for all
Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 29
6. THE WA Y FORWARD
The following coherent set of actions is 
proposed to be taken up by the European 
Commission to stimulate industrial heat pump 
applications and to strengthen and accelerate 
the EU-wide research, development and 
demonstration of industrial heat pump techno-
logy, in order to unlock its CO2 emission 
reduction potential. 
Creating a fair regulatory framework that 
facilitates the acceptance of industrial heat 
pumps
It has been demonstrated in several projects 
that industrial heat pumps are viable alternati-
ves for zero-emission heat supply. Various 
energy transition roadmaps22-25 consider heat 
pumps for industrial applications and district 
heating as a key technology in future energy 
scenarios. A rapid transition to a sustainable 
energy system requires a stable and techno-
logy-independent regulatory framework that 
internalizes the costs of CO2 emissions. 
Current scenarios continue to focus on the 
introduction of natural gas-based combustion 
through subsidies and tax bene/f_i  ts, as this is 
seen as a viable short-term alternative. It must 
however be understood that this leads to 
technological lock-in, even though long-term 
solutions, i.e. industrial heat pumps, are already 
available and can be equally competitive under 
technology-independent regulatory conditions. 
A review of the regulatory frameworks is 
needed with regard to the tax burden and to 
focus on promotion of industrial heat pumps as 
a long-term sustainable alternative to industrial 
heat supply.Establishing an information and knowledge 
base to support the integration of industrial 
heat pumps at all levels of the value chain
The potential of industrial heat pumps must be 
understood by various stakeholders involved in 
the implementation of heat pumps, including 
manufacturers, consultants, planners, end-users, 
process engineers, decision makers, and 
politicians. In addition, there must be a 
suﬃ   cient knowledge base to support a wide 
deployment of industrial heat pumps, such as 
education materials, training courses, process 
integration and optimization methods, stan-
dards and guidelines.
Development of an EU-wide program which 
enables cutting edge research, develop-
ment and demonstration projects with 
industrial heat pumps
Industrial heat pump technologies can become 
the preferred heat supply technology for a wide 
range of applications with supply temperatures 
below 100°C. For the technologies with supply 
temperatures between 100°C and 200°C, 
the focus should lie on development and 
demonstration, while higher temperatures 
require research activities. Demonstration 
projects should aim to break down application 
barriers and solve problems with upscaling 
and the widespread use of large heat pump 
systems. Additional R&D activities should focus 
on performance improvements and the 
development of strategies for the energy 
transition to fully renewable process heat 
systems, including heat pumps. These RD&D 
projects require cross-industry collaborations 
covering the entire range from research and 
development to manufacturing and /f_i  nal 
application in an international context. 
30 | Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial HeatREFERENCES
1 Eurostat. Energy Balances. 2019.
2   European Environment Agency. Greenhouse gas emissions by aggregated sector 2019. https://www.eea.europa.eu/
data-and-maps/daviz/ghg-emissions-by-aggregated-sector-5 (accessed July 3, 2020).
3 Fleiter T, Elsland R, Rehfeldt M, Steinbach J, Reiter U, Catenazzi G, et al. Heat Roadmap Europe. Deliverable 3.1: 
Pro/f_i  le of heating and cooling demand in 2015. 2017.
4 European Commission. A Clean Planet for all. A European long-term strategic vision for a prosperous, modern, 
competitive and climate neutral economy. 2018.
5 European Commission. Clean energy for all Europeans. 2019.
6 Koﬃ    B, Cerutti A, Duerr M, Iancu A, Kona A, Janssens-Maenhout G. JRC Technical Reports: Covenant of Mayors for 
Climate and Energy: Default emission factors for local emission inventories. 2017. https://doi.org/10.2760/290197.
7 European Environment Agency. Greenhouse gas emissions from transport in Europe 2019. https://www.eea.europa.eu/
data-and-maps/indicators/transport-emissions-of-greenhouse-gases/transport-emissions-of-greenhouse-ga-
ses-12 (accessed March 30, 2020).
8   European Environment Agency. CO2 emission intensity 2018. https://www.eea.europa.eu/data-and-maps/daviz/
co2-emission-intensity-5 (accessed July 3, 2020).
9 Rehfeldt M, Fleiter T, Toro F . A bottom-up estimation of the heating and cooling demand in European industry. 
Energy Eﬃ   ciency 2018;11:1057–82. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12053-017-9571-y.
10 Eurostat. Energy Statistics - prices of natural gas and electricity. 2020.
11 Zühlsdorf B, Bühler F , Bantle M, Elmegaard B. Analysis of technologies and potentials for heat pump-based 
process heat supply above 150 °C. Energy Conversion and Management: X 2019;2. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
ecmx.2019.100011.
12 Nowak T, Westring P . European heat pump association, European heat pump market and statistics - Report 2019. 2019.
13 Pennartz F . An all-electric sustainable slaughterhouse, relying on heat pumps for its heat. Dutch Heat Pumping 
Technologies Journal 2017;2.
14 IEA Heat Pump Centre. IEA Annex 35. Application of Industrial Heat Pumps. Final Report. Part 2. 2014.
15 EUDP project: 64010-0026. Utilisation of low grade waste heat by means of high temperature heat pumps. Final 
Report. 2013.
16 Hybrid Energy. Arla Arinco, Denmark n.d. https://www.hybridenergy.no/referenceplants/arla-arinco/ (accessed 
March 30, 2020).
17 Götzhaber W, Meißner E, Moravi G, Prutsch W, Schlemmer P , Schmied R, et al. Wärmeversorgung Graz 2020/2030 
- WärmebereitstellungWärmebereitstellung für die fernwärmeversorgten Objekte im Großraum Graz - Statusbe-
richt 2017. 2017.
18 Arnitz A, Rieberer R, Wilk V, Unger H, Schlemmer P . Waste Heat Recovery at the Steel and Rolling Mill “Marienhütte” , 
Graz (Austria). Heat Pumping Technologies Magazine 2019;2.
19 Heat Pump City of the Year Award 2019. https://www.ehpa.org//f_i  leadmin/red/09._Events/2019_Events/
HPCY_2019_webinar/20190628-TINE_Bergen_-_EPHA_-_REV_5_1_.pdf (accessed March 30, 2020).
20 Arpagaus C. From Waste Heat to Cheese. Heat Pumping Technologies Magazine 2019;2.
21 IEA Heat Pump Centre. IEA Annex 35. Application of Industrial Heat Pumps. Final Report. Part 1. 2014.
22 Bataille C, Åhman M, Neuhoﬀ   K, Nilsson LJ, Fischedick M, Lechtenböhmer S, et al. A review of technology and 
policy deep decarbonization pathway options for making energy-intensive industry production consistent with 
the Paris Agreement. Journal of Cleaner Production 2018;187:960–73. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.03.107.
23 Regeringen. Energistrategi 2050. 2011.
24 Roelofsen O, de Pee A, Speelman E, Witteveen M, (McKinsey and Company). Energy transition: mission (im)
possible for industry? A dutch example for decarbonization. 2017.
25 Geyer R, Knöttner S, Diendorfer C, Drexler-Schmid G. IndustRiES - Energieinfrastruktur für 100 % Erneuerbare 
Energie in der Industrie 2019.
Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation | Decarbonizing Industrial Heat | 31CONTACTS
Robert de Boer
TNO (NL)
Energy Transition Unit
+31 88 866 23 52
robert.deboer@tno.nl
Benjamin Zühlsdorf
Danish Technological Institute 
– DTI (DK)
Energy and Climate
+45 72 20 12 58
bez@teknologisk.dkAndrew Marina
TNO (NL)
Energy Transition Unit
+31 88 866 27 71
andrew.marina@tno.nl
Cordin Arpagaus
NTB Interstaatliche Hochschule 
für Technik Buchs (CH)
Institut für Energiesysteme IES
+41 81 755 34 94
cordin.arpagaus@ost.ch
Michael Bantle
SINTEF Energy Research (NO)
Thermal Energy Department
+47 41 01 40 24
michael.bantle@sintef.noVeronika Wilk
Austrian Institute Of Technology 
– AIT (AT)
Center for Energy
+43 50 550 64 94
veronika.wilk@ait.ac.at
Brian Elmegaard
Technical University of Denmark 
– DTU (DK)
Department of Mechanical 
Engineering
+45 45 25 41 69
be@mek.dtu.dk
José Corberán
Universitat Politècnica de 
València (ES)
Department of Applied 
Thermodynamics
+34 96 387 92 43
corberan@ter.upv.es
Jessica Benson
Research Institutes of Sweden 
– RISE (SE)
Industrial transition
+46 10 516 65 89
jessica.benson@ri.se
