Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG . Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , September 30, 2021  
Siemens Energy’s HL -class technology  
enables  Greece to reduce CO 2 emissions and 
protect the environment  
• First  delivery  of HL-class gas turbine technology to Greece  
• World’s  most powerful combined cycle power plant in 1x1 configuration  
• Reduce d CO 2 emissions and environmental impact , increase d security of supply  
 
Siemens Energy is supplying its state -of-the-art, highly  efficient HL -class gas turbine technology to 
Greece for the first time. As part  of a new combined cycle power plant in Komotini in the northeast 
of the country, it  will provide  reliable and economical power generation. With an installed electrical 
capacit y of 877 megawatts (MW),  it will be the  world’s  most powerful combined cycle power plant 
in 1x1 configuration. The c onstruction of the new plant is of strategic importance for Greece . It will  
cover the country’s increased demand for electricity, which will  result from  the gradual withdrawal 
of lignite production units. The switch to a modern gas -fired power plant with high efficiencies will 
reduce CO 2 emissions  by up to 3.7 million tons per year compared to a coal power plant . It will also 
reduce the environmental impact and  increase the security of supply. Customer Terna S.A.  is 
building the entire plant for the project company Thermoilektriki Komotinis M.A.E. The company is 
owned in equal parts by Motor Oil Renewable Energy (MORE) and GEK Terna. Comm issioning of the 
plant is scheduled for mid -2024.  
 
“We trusted Siemens Energy because it ’s a leading manufacturer of units with natural gas fuel, it 
met our requirements , and it convinced us that it will be by our side with its experience  until the 
complet ion of the project. The cooperation of the two companies to interconnect Crete with the 
mainland  is continuing in the area  of electricity production ,” said I oannis  Stefanatos , Director of 
Energy Projects at Terna S.A.  
 
Karim Amin, Executive Vice President Generation at Siemens Energy, said: “We thank Terna for 
trusting Siemens Energy as its partner of choice for the prestigious combined cycle power plant in 
Komotini. We’re excited that our technology and expertise will p lay a critical role in Greece’s Press release  

Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG . Page  2 of 3 
 strategic journey of shifting from coal/lignite power plants to gas -fired power generation. Our HL 
gas turbines will provide a reliable supply of electricity at efficiency levels above 64  percent , 
resulting in a significant reduction of CO 2 emissions – a target Greece is determined to achieve. 
We’re very much looking forward to further expanding our collaboration with Terna in Greece and 
other countries.“  
 
The new power plant will be fired with natural gas and is designed as a multi -shaft plant, with one 
gas turbine and one steam turbine each driving their own generator. The Siemens Energy scope of 
supply includes a pow er island consisting of an SGT5 -9000HL gas turbine, an SST5 -5000 steam 
turbine, an SGen5 -3000W generator for the gas turbine, an SGen5 -1200A generator for the steam 
turbine, the heat -recovery steam generator , and the SPPA -T3000 control  system.  
 
 
 
Siemens Energy’s HL -class technology enables Greece to reduce CO2 emissions and protect the environment . With an 
installed electrical capacity of 877 megawatts (MW), it will be the world’s most powerful combined cycle power plant in 
1x1 configuration . 
 
 
 
 
 

Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG . Page  3 of 3 
 Contact for journalists  
Kerstin Schirmer  
Phone:  +49 172 2669588  
E-mail:  kerstin.schirmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
 
This press release an d press  picture s are available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
For further information o n power plant solutions, please see https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -generation/power -plants.html  
For further information on the S GT5-9000HL gas turbine, please see https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -generation/gas -turbines/sgt5 -9000hl.html  
 
Follow u s on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmissi on to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been d ecarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Sieme ns Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 