Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin , December  12, 2022  
Siemens Energy halves emissions in its operations  
 
• Siemens Energy publishes fiscal year 2022 sustainability report  
• 50% reduction in emissions at own operations compared to 2019 baseline  
• 90% of the electricity required comes from renewable sources  
 
 
Siemens Energy improved in almost all areas of sustainability this past year, as reflected in its fiscal year 
2022 Sustainabi lity Report, published today.  
 
"Global demand for electricity will increase by 25 % by 2030,” said Christian Bruch, CEO and Chief 
Sustainability Officer for Siemens Energy. “Satisfying this hunger for energy sustainably, safely , and 
affordably is one of the core tasks of our time. Our mission  is to support our customers in their 
transform ation to greater sustainability. But this also means we must set a good example and apply the 
highest standards in our operations. Our goal is to be a leader within the energy industry when it comes to 
sustainability, corporate governance , and social issue s. We're on a good path, but still a long way from 
where we want to be."  
 
One important reporting parameter across the entire value chain is greenhouse gas emissions. Here, a 
fundamental distinction is made between Scope 1 (emissions for which the company is directly responsible 
or in control, such as gas consumption), Scope 2 (indirect emissions through purchased energy, e.g., 
electricity consumption), and Scope 3 (indirect emissions in the upstream and downstream supply chain).  
 
In its direct area of res ponsibility (Scope 1 and 2), Siemens Energy emitted 21 % fewer greenhouse gases in 
fiscal year 2022 than in the previous year. In fact, the company has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions in 
this area by 50 % since the baseline year 2019. The original targe t was to reduce emissions by 46 % by 2025. 
By 2030, Siemens Energy aims to be completely climate -neutral.  
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
A key reason for the company's success in reducing greenhouse gases is its use of renewable energies. At 
Siemens Energy, 90 % of the electricity required for its operations comes from renewable sources. The 
planned target was 84 %. Conventional contracts were replaced more quickly by new agreements or 
supplemented by guarantees of origin, where it was impossible to purchase renew able energy directly from 
the supplier. By September 30, 2023, electricity demand is expected to be covered entirely by green energy.  
 
Siemens Energy also reports emissions in Scope 3 that result from the operation of its own products over 
the entire life  cycle. These account for more than 99 % of Siemens Energy's total greenhouse gas emissions 
and represent the most significant challenge to climate neutrality. In the past year, 46 million metric tons 
fewer greenhouse gases were emitted in this category (a 3% reduction compared to 2021). Overall, there 
was a 12 % reduction compared to the 2019 baseline. This is primarily due to the coal phase -out  
Siemens Energy implemented in 2020. This demonstrates the urgency to switch from coal to gas for power 
generation  as quickly as possible, in addition to using renewable energies: Nearly 40% of the world's power 
is still generated using coal; switching to gas could eliminate approximately 50 % of the emissions at each 
plant.  
 
More sustainability in supply chains  
On 96 pages, the Report reflects Siemens Energy’s environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) 
achievement in the past fiscal year and areas where it can improve. For example, approximately 20 % of 
Siemens Energy’s workforce comprises women. Within the f irst two management levels (Gas and Power, 
excluding Siemens Gamesa), it rose by a further percentage point last year to 22 %. But Siemens Energy's 
targets are more ambitious, intending to achieve 30 % by 2030. The company expects to progress rapidly in 
this area under the newly implemented organizational structure that went into effect on October 1, 2022.  
 
Siemens Energ y will take further measures to become a leading ESG company . Among other things, the 
share of green power produced in -house will be expande d, the automation of building technology will be 
driven forward , and the company's own energy requirements will be further reduced. With the 
appointment of Group Compliance Officer Dr. Anita Schieffer  to the newly created position of  Human Rights 
Officer, the course is set to meet new requirements for international companies, such as those posed by the 
Supply Chain Act.  
 
With an eye to sustainability, the Report is published digitally and can be found on the company’s website : 
www.siemens -energy.com/sustainability -report -2022  
 
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact for journalists  
Claudia Nehring  
Phone:  +49 162 1668424  
E-mail:  claudia.nehring@siemens -energy.com  
 
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and  partners on 
energy systems f or the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions 
and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The 
portfolio  includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated 
with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A 
majority stake  in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for 
renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. 
Siemens Energy emp loys around 9 2,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €2 9 billion in fiscal 
year 202 2. www.siemens -energy.com  
 