siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000Omnivise T3000  
SCADA 
Your bridge into the future for renewables  
and decentralized power generationWHITEPAPER
The first is environmental. There 
is a growing realization that power 
generation needs to decarbonize 
fast to address the negative 
impacts of climate change. The 
industry is already moving more 
quickly than most experts would 
have predicted even as recently as 
ten years ago and, in most devel-
oped countries, wind, solar and 
water are becoming normal power 
sources for our economies. The second is technological. As 
our societies move to an all-elec-
tric future, where the grid is the 
only source of power, so the very 
nature of distribution grids is 
evolving.
Multi-directional functionality is 
becoming a reality, as virtual 
power plant companies (which 
aggregate energy from many 
different sources, such as solar 
panels on thousands of houses) 
and private corporations sell 
power as well as buying it, while 
the spread of smart sensors 
through IoT arrays enables greater 
flexibility in power management. 
The Changing Energy 
Landscape
Rethinking the power generation market
The power generation market is changing fast. It’s not just that there  
are changes in the types of power generation technology being used, 
there is something even more fundamental taking place. We are moving 
from centralized to distributed generation, and that leads both to major 
challenges and some new opportunities. There are three main reasons 
for these changes. 
Top-level view of the many different potential 
sources that must now be managed to deliver 
reliable services across the distribution grid.The third is commercial. Many 
energy markets are liberalizing  
(or have already liberalized),  
with trading now a basic part of 
electricity supply markets, and 
competition intensifying across 
both generation and distribution 
sectors. Availability is the key to 
success for all power generation 
businesses, and the old days of 
steady long-term running are long 
gone. There are now more players 
in the market, and they compete 
with each other in different ways, 
as markets change. 
Once monolithic structures are 
now being replaced by a frag-
mented, constantly changing, and 
hard to manage new reality. This 
presents a serious challenge to 
every participant in the market, 
and has major political and 
economic implications, too. 
2
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA2
A more complex market
Today, power is generated in different  
ways, at different times and by different 
organizations, using different forms of 
technology. The result is great complexity 
within any national or large regional 
network: complexity that must be carefully 
managed, with outputs balanced so that  
the distribution grid can deliver the 
required energy to customers without 
unwanted interruptions or downtime. 
The power generation mix still includes 
traditional large plants: combined cycle 
gas, industrial gas turbines, hydro and 
biomass. Alongside these we now have 
fluctuating power sources (available only 
at certain times and under certain condi-
tions), including wind power and photo-
voltaic installations, together with other 
options that are relatively new for distribu-
tion grids: battery storage, biogas and 
small-scale combined heat and power. Also just entering the picture are hydrogen, 
still at a comparatively early stage of 
development, and the new concept of 
Power to X. This allows power to be  
decoupled from the grid at times of 
surplus (such as when fluctuating sources 
are working with high efficiency) and 
applied to industrial processes or other 
non-grid related uses.
Quite apart from the increasingly complex 
mix of technologies now used for power 
generation, we must also deal with many 
different forms of commercial intermediary. 
These include virtual power companies  
or industrial and commercial campuses 
(which can sell surplus power to the grid 
on an hourly or minute by minute basis).
3
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADABattery storageHydroPVWindDiesel and gas 
engines, CHP
Consumer,
industry
Gas and steam turbines,
combined cycle, CHP
H₂: electrolyzer, 
storage, fuel cellGridMicrogrid
Controller
Dispatch
OptimizerSCADA
Application Server
Data, therefore, is at the heart of 
control systems, and the key source  
for the data used in virtually all  
industrial controls is SCADA.
Let’s take a closer look at it.
4
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADAStaying in control
As we have also learned from recent 
events, we cannot always depend  
on current sources of supply from fossil 
fuels which are still needed when  
fluctuating sources, such as wind and 
solar, are not available. The absolute 
requirement at all times is to make sure 
that the power supplied to the grid  
is optimized to be as stable as possible, 
which is ultimately a function of the 
control systems. 
In grids as they once were, where power 
was supplied by a relatively small number 
of very large plants, grid control was 
comparatively simple. Today, however, 
grids are managing inputs from a huge 
range of sources and the task of balancing 
supply and demand is granular, continuous, 
and very complex. This is especially 
important now, when the locations where 
power is generated may well be a long 
distance from where it is required. Power 
may come from a wind farm in the North 
Sea, for example, but it may be consumed 
in cities many hundreds of kilometers 
away. This adds an extra layer of  
management difficulty. Now it is necessary not just to have visi-
bility end to end across the entire energy 
landscape, but to have the means of 
understanding what is happening at all 
times, in all power generation locations, 
together with the ability to intervene as 
needed. That is a new concept for 
management and control. It depends  
on real or near real time data flows,  
in massive quantities, together with 
analytics, proactive management, distrib-
uted intelligence to enable instant 
responses as needed, all managed  
from a single point of authority. 
The role of SCADA
The location can either be a server that is 
physically close to the power generation 
assets or based on a remote site, depending  
on connectivity. SCADA has important 
functionality, but there is a gap between 
what is increasingly required for effective 
control and what SCADA is able to deliver. 
A SCADA system has only limited intelli-
gence, so it is in no way synonymous with 
Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), while, 
in addition, the sensors used for different 
production assets can vary greatly.  
SCADA solutions simply ensure that data  
is collected and presented to a Distributed 
Control System (DCS) for active manage-
ment of the network. This is where we 
encounter real issues in moving into a 
world of distributed power generation. 
In the “old” world, of large central power 
plants, each location will have its own 
control solution (Siemens Energy is the 
world’s largest provider of DCS solutions).
In the new world of multiple power 
sources, some fluctuating, some not, the 
range of variations is extremely large. 
Most assets will have their own specific 
SCADA components, which may be incom-
patible with both other asset types and 
many different control solutions. There may be variations in data security 
capabilities, while visualization options, 
response times and the ability to carry out 
autonomous actions may also be very 
different. A modern control solution will 
normally require an object- related single 
data source, with data consistency across  
a complex landscape, supported by data 
back-up and archiving, diagnostics, ample 
redundancy, and fail-over options. SCADA stands for Supervisory Control 
and Data Acquisition and is a set of  
software applications designed to 
collect data that originates in sensors 
and transmit these data to an agreed 
location.
5Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA
None of these requirements are built into 
most SCADA solutions, so although SCADA 
still has an important role to play, its 
functionality is not sufficient for the 
challenges faced by power generation and 
power grids today. In fact, the existence of 
multiple SCADA solutions increases frag-
mentation in the network and wider grid. 
The effort required to collate information, 
analyze it, and then take appropriate 
action causes unacceptable delays and 
brings a good deal of risk into energy 
management, at generation and distribu-
tion level. 
Distribution networks must be capable of 
managing considerable variety in power 
sources, while coping with fluctuations in 
output, multi-directional power flows and 
complex patterns of demand, yet always stay firmly in control. Output needs to 
remain steady and predictable, with the 
end goal of keeping lights on, heating 
operational, vehicles moving and manu-
facturing systems always running. 
In other words, we need to take disparate 
and fragmented inputs and translate these 
into steady and reliable output. How to do 
that? The answer is through coordinated 
and managed control systems. That’s 
where the Siemens Energy Omnivise 
T3000 control solution comes in, as we 
will see in the next part of this paper. 
6
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA
Central Control Room  
Omnivise T3000Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA
Conventional plants
Central control room  
for central monitoring  
and control of remote units
One  
user interfaceOne  
systemSecure  
communicationSimplified  
engineeringOne-click unit 
integrationRenewables
Handling big amount  
data points for CSP,  
PV, wind farms incl. 
 substationsHybrid plants 
Integration different  
assets, optimization,  
real-time SCADA
Integrated Control for 
Decentralized Energy
The importance of 
distributed operations
We have seen that power generation has 
evolved into a complex landscape of 
interconnected power plants, using a wide 
range of different power sources, which 
distribution networks must transform into 
reliable power, delivered to millions of 
users via distribution grids. To ensure 
energy security, the key as always, lies in 
management and controls. The mission  
is to deliver:
• A single view of the truth , so that 
operators and engineers can see end to 
end across the power generation land-
scape and understand precisely what  
is happening in detail, everywhere. • A single workbench , with every rele-
vant engineer able to take action as  
and when needed, knowing they can 
intervene to deal with faults and 
emerging issues in a timely way,  
ensuring that concerns do not turn  
into major problems. 
• Assured end to end cybersecurity , so 
there are no points of weakness where 
malicious code can enter and there are 
adequate safeguards to identify cyber 
problems and respond fast. 
• Effective use of distributed intelli -
gence , enabling automated responses 
within agreed limits to happen without 
having to wait for intervention from  
the center. 
How do we ensure these outcomes?  
It all comes down to the control solution 
in place.
7
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA
The role of Distributed 
Control Systems (DCS)
In the old world of large-scale central 
power plants, the DCS solution would 
normally be related to an individual power 
generation facility and would comprise a 
constantly evolving combined hardware 
and software solution, designed to main -
tain and optimize normal operations at all 
times. Over the years, DCS solutions, such 
as the Siemens Energy Omnivise T3000, 
have become more responsive, proactive, 
and comprehensive in their scope. Today, 
such solutions will be able to carry out all 
the following actions:
• Gather data from a sensor array, provid-
ing very detailed insights concerning 
operation of the overall system and the 
different components within it. 
• Analyze the data received from sensors 
to identify signs of potential issues or 
any likelihood that operations will move 
beyond defined tolerances or normal 
parameters. • Review alerts automatically to reduce 
the number of human touchpoints.  
This means ensuring it is no longer 
necessary for an engineer to look  
at all alerts to decide which must be 
actioned and which can be discounted.
• Manage the maintenance schedule, 
interfacing with specialized solutions 
that optimize use of human expertise 
and make maintenance activities more 
proactive.
• Interface and support other relevant 
production management solutions, 
including PLM and trading platforms  
to ensure extension to asset life and 
availability for market needs.
8
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA
Control systems, in other words, will 
provide the functionalities needed to 
manage production assets effectively. As 
technology platforms develop and become 
more capable, so solutions are becoming 
more effective at managing power genera-
tion in an agile and responsive manner. 
The challenge of managing decentralized 
systems today, however, is orders of 
magnitude more complex and demanding 
than the traditional role. Why is that?  
One major factor more than any other  
 is driving complexity across the entire 
system: the need to manage multiple 
distributed sources. Of course, a major 
distribution grid always does and always 
has taken power from many different 
sources. Yet as we move to a reality where 
many or most of these sources will of 
necessity continuously fluctuate, and 
where grids, themselves, permit two-way 
transmission, the level of complexity rises 
exponentially. Equally important is the fact that the new 
generation of renewables do not come 
equipped with the standard sensor 
formats and controls that have been 
developed over many decades in the world 
of centralized power plants. So now we 
are dealing with greater complexity in the 
number of power generation suppliers, 
complexity in the forms of power supply 
(which are much less predictable in their 
operation), and complexity in the forms of 
data gathering and transmission software 
(and sometimes hardware, too) being 
employed. 
Yet the requirements of society for reliable 
energy are rising fast, as we move to an 
all-electric future. All complexity comes 
together at one operational point: the 
control suite, where power flows are 
monitored, data analyzed and continuous 
adjustments made, moment by moment, 
without a break. Control solutions, there-
fore, can no longer be focused only on the 
individual power plants themselves: we 
need a distributed solution (DCS), as well.
9
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA
It’s a new concept  
for a new reality.
That is the thinking behind Siemens Energy’s Omnivise T3000,  
explained in the final section of this paper.Effective controls for distributed energy 
production will therefore include all the 
following capabilities as a minimum:
• Import SCADA data from remote units, 
sited at every production location. 
Ensure that any temporary communica-
tion interruptions are synchronized  
as soon as connections are restored. 
• Enable central management of remote 
units, combined with manual input  
(if required due to communication loss) 
and a central archive for rapid search 
and analysis. 
• Input engineering data from all sys-
tems, solutions, and software types,  
enabling comprehensive data access  
in the most complex and diverse  
engineering landscapes. 
• Carry out root cause analysis to pinpoint 
issues, with full event list and applied 
analytics to identify emerging problems. Core requirements for control systems
SCADA remains the key to providing control and efficient management 
of distributed, decentralized power generation in large-scale distribution 
grids. That’s because SCADA offers a standardized format for collating 
data coming from multiple generation units and systems, enabling rapid 
analysis of data gathered (in real or near real time). These functionalities 
make it possible to deliver a single view of the truth to distribution 
management. 
This approach means that distributed 
power generation and distribution systems 
can be managed in an integrated manner, 
bringing central oversight and control 
even to the most apparently fragmented 
energy landscapes. This entire new 
approach rests on the ability to access 
comprehensive performance data from 
every production asset in every location, 
based on secure data flows and  
efficient analytics.
DCS solutions in the future cannot afford 
to be reactive. It is not enough to ensure 
steady running and regular maintenance 
of production assets. Now the control 
system is tasked with constantly balancing 
an inherently unstable system, in which 
inputs may fluctuate, variations in energy 
flows are normal and the number of 
players in the market is increasing. 
10
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA10
Central control room , where inputs  
from multiple remote units are gathered, 
collated, and analyzed. This is the basic 
requirement for effective control of 
distributed production assets. 
Ability to manage the massive quantities 
of data points created by large renewable 
production arrays, and in particular for 
offshore wind farms. Given the variability 
of operation and the sheer scale of such 
facilities, data flows are of unprecedented 
scale and require specialized systems to 
enable remote collation and systematic 
transmission to the central control rooms. 
Most current systems cannot handle such  
a data challenge. The Omnivise Approach
Data storage  for later recovery and  
analysis, should a connection be inter -
rupted. In current SCADA solutions, such 
data is likely to be lost, and that will be a 
major problem in future distributed energy 
environments. Omnivise T3000 stores all 
data for later synchronization, even in the 
event of major loss of connectivity.
Management of hybrid systems , 
including Virtual Power Plants. In a 
complex, distributed landscape, the 
control systems must be able to optimize 
and manage inputs from many different 
types of system, provided by many 
different vendors. They must also handle 
two-way flows across the distribution 
system and manage capacity in substations. 
Once again, this is not a normal function 
of most current DCS solutions.The starting point
The T3000 series of DCS solutions is already the most widely used control 
system within a large area of Operational Technology, and in particular  
for power generation. The scale of the current installed base makes  
it easier for Siemens Energy to build new developments on the solid  
foundation of experience gained from several thousand installations,  
in widely varied operational environments, all over the world. 
The current solution provides key SCADA related functions as standard already.  
These include:
11Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA
A real-world example will show why 
exactly the Omnivise solution is currently 
viewed as the being more fit for purpose 
than other alternatives in this emerging 
energy environment. The new 900 MW He 
Dreiht wind farm (90 kilometers from the 
North German coast) announced in late 
2022 will use a Siemens Energy Omnivise 
control solution, which can provide the 
capacity, system intelligence and assured 
cybersecurity performance to manage 
consistent output from this  large renew -
able power solution. 
This project breaks new ground in some 
ways but, in others, is becoming more and 
more typical of what will be seen as 
“normal” renewable power solutions for 
the future. Others are already operational 
in the North Sea and many more are 
planned for this region and other regions 
worldwide. 
A wind farm of this type is physically large 
and geographically remote. To reach the 
assets requires a five-hour trip by sea  
(if major work is required) or an hour by 
helicopter (for less intrusive maintenance).
 It is also potentially vulnerable to assault, 
and recent events have reminded us that 
hacking is not the only security concern 
for renewable power supplies: old-fash-
ioned sabotage is also a real possibility. The Omnivise approach offers integrated 
cybersecurity, linking Siemens Energy and 
other OEM equipment into a single solu-
tion, covering an entire installation, from 
turbines to substation automation, auxil-
iary systems, and direct marketing into the 
grid. These issues are covered in greater 
detail within our T3000 Cybersecurity 
white paper.
To ensure effective management of power 
supplies, therefore, control systems must 
be able to monitor in real time and in 
great depth, with assured security and 
failsafe communication options. 
The solution must also include intelligence 
and smart algorithms devolved to the 
production site, itself. There must be 
enough intelligence on the local Edge 
server to maintain normal functions in 
abnormal conditions. 
This implies robust, intelligent networks 
and a control solution that is not only 
inclusive (gathering SCADA data from 
every device and every location) but 
predictive and intuitive in its design. 
Services can be delivered remotely, which 
is extremely important for distributed 
sources (such as wind farms out at sea, 
where normal access is via ship only).  
This is an efficient control solution,  
to be sure, but on a different scale and 
sophistication when compared with today. 
12
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA12
Integration. Omnivise T3000 SCADA 
connects wind turbines substation auto-
mation, auxiliary systems, and access  
to the energy market through a single 
platform with a centralized, integrated 
view. Integration covers Substation  
Automation Systems (SAS), with data  
and underlying logic from files applied  
for external (non-Siemens Energy) systems 
and platforms. This provides a single view 
and integrated approach for an entire 
extended network of production and 
distribution assets. The T3000 solution  
is also fully capable of remote working, 
enabling a high level of automation, 
self-diagnosis, and correction, with remote 
adjustments to reduce the need for costly 
and difficult on-site visits. 
Testing. One core requirement for future 
power networks will be the ability to plan 
in more detail, removing the need for  
“trial and error”, enabling scenarios to  
be examined, run in virtual machines, 
evaluated, revised and tested again.  
The Omnivise T3000 solution includes  
the ability to create digital twins and  
test them exhaustively. New developments, new functions
The new vision for control solutions pioneered by Siemens Energy includes several 
significant changes when compared to existing control systems. All of these are 
designed to optimize working in complex, distributed environments, delivering assured 
power outputs from sometimes unreliable, intermittent generation sources. Key factors 
include:
This is already speeding up development, 
identifying potential hazards and making 
these networks safer and more efficient. 
Scalability. This is perhaps the most 
important characteristic of all, when 
applied to complex power generation 
landscapes. Traditional DCS solutions  
are normally fixed in scale: there is one 
controller for each site. That way of oper -
ating is no longer appropriate, and the 
T3000 design approach reflects the need 
to scale in ways that reflect the changing 
nature of energy generation. 
The graphic on the next side illustrates 
how this works. This schematic view 
shows how the T3000 DCS capability  
sits at the heart of a scalable network  
of connections. Secure tunnels move  
data from all installed systems, no matter 
what their design or who provides them, 
combining such data with T3000 inputs  
to create a single view of performance 
realities from a growing number of remote 
locations. 
The current design specifications allow for 
multiple remote sites to be connected to a single 
T3000 controller, enabling a consolidated view 
over an energy environment that is in many 
cases national in scale.
Adding modules to the installed system is now simple and cost-effective because  
this is a fundamental design characteristic and does not require bespoke engineering.
13
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA
Application Highway
Automation LevelApplication ServerApplication Server
Security  
ServerSecurity  
Server
Router /   
FirewallRouter /   
FirewallRouter /   
FirewallRouter /   
Firewall
Router /   
FirewallTerminal ServerT3000 SCADA architecture  
Benefits of proven T3000  
and integrated cybersecurity
Local Network WAN
14Application Highway
Automation Highway
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADAWhitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA
Central operation
• Benefits of T3000 can be applied
• One Workbench for connected 
remote units
• Secure connection of remote units 
via WAN
• Communication interfaces directly 
at Application Server
Remote units
• Integration of T3000 -  
and 3rd party remote units
• Integration of 3rd party  
remote units via standard  
communication protocol  
(e.g. OPC UA, IEC 60870-5-104)
• Independent local  
and remote monitoring
• Local / remote interlocking  
for controlcentral
remoteInternet Intranet
Central HMI
Central ServersCentral Network
Remote Connection
VPN TunnelVPN Tunnel Customer  
Office  
Network
Local Omnivise T3000 3rd party system
Security. This topic is covered in a sepa-
rate paper so we will not go into detail  
at this stage. The key points are simple 
enough. Distributed environments can 
potentially include many different points 
of weakness, both providing attack vectors 
for malicious external actors and multiple 
options for technology failure. Because 
Omnivise T3000 enables simple and 
efficient integration with non-Siemens 
Energy systems, it is possible to provide  
a single, highly effective cybersecurity 
solution for an entire production environ-
ment. Within a large-scale windfarm,  
for example, this means integrated cyber -
security that covers turbines, substation  
automation, auxiliary systems, and direct 
marketing: all included and integrated  
by design. 
 
Omnivise T3000 has been designed for 
compliance with the internationally recog-
nized standards for cybersecurity, 
including the two most important: IEC 
62443-3-3 and IEC 62443-4-1. This makes 
the solution, itself, extremely robust in 
operation, highly effective in detecting 
and repelling cyber-attacks and constantly 
evolving as new information becomes 
available. It is also supported by the 
Siemens Energy security methodologies 
and practices, which provides additional 
safeguards to the entire network. 
This emphasis on security becomes more 
important as our power generation 
options become increasingly diverse. Local 
power sources, such as large-scale battery 
installations, solar arrays, and wind farms, 
may not have been designed with security 
and resilience in mind and may form 
potential weak spots when integrated into 
a wider system. The T3000 is designed to monitor the 
entire integrated network and can identify 
potential issues rapidly before systemati-
cally driving problem resolution. In this 
way, T3000 can oversee the whole land-
scape and can make the generation and 
distribution environment more secure. 
Central Archive. One key issue for small 
scale, local control systems is archiving,  
with historical data often stored only on 
remote sites, with the need to carry out 
specialized work in data transfer and 
forensic analysis in case of failures and 
other issues. 
By networking remote T3000 units to the 
central control rooms, we can now archive 
data in parallel, in remote sites and at the 
center. If there is a communication failure 
between remote and central servers, 
synchronization will automatically take 
place as soon as connections are restored.  
This means that the best and most current 
information can rapidly be made available  
to control room management at the center. 
Any disconnections will be short-lived  
and temporary, so the normal operational 
reality is that all necessary data will always 
be available where it is most needed. 
Novel monetization methods. The new 
world of multi-directional distribution 
grids opens up the potential for new 
methods for selling (and sometimes aggre-
gating) power for direct marketing into 
the grid. Virtual Power Plants enable 
specialist businesses to aggregate energy 
from a range of sources (some of them 
very small in scale- such as large housing 
developments with solar panels) and sell 
power to the grid via the spot market.  
This can offer new commercial opportuni-
ties to generation businesses.
Direct Marketing to the grid is now a 
normal activity which, in many national 
and regional markets is a required facility 
for renewable power companies. This 
approach permits energy to be sold via  
a Direct Marketer into the grid to meet 
demand requirements. The Omnivise 
T3000 solution makes it simple for power 
generation companies that focus on 
renewables to ensure that power generated 
on an intermittent basis is fully monetized, 
maximizing ROI while helping to meet 
power requirements in the grid.
15
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA
Facing the future
As a society, we are now moving fast  
to a world of distributed, decentralized 
services, and this includes the most 
important service of all: generating  
the electricity that will keep our cities, 
businesses, homes and all the systems  
we depend on operating successfully.  
In place of central power generation from 
a relatively small number of large-scale 
plants, we are now dependent on 
hundreds, eventually many thousands  
of small-scale generation options. These 
need to be networked together, super -
vised, monitored, managed, kept secure 
from both operational failures and 
cyber-attack, and deployed as a single, 
reliable power source to users of every 
kind. 
Siemens Energy is a global team of more than 91,000 dedicated 
employees. Together, we’re responsible for meeting the world’s growing 
demand for energy while ensuring our climate is protected. We build on 
our 150-year legacy and push the boundaries of what is possible. We 
strive for sustainability in our decarbonization journey, innovation 
centered on future technologies, and transformation among future 
focused offerings, portfolio and mindset. Together as one team across 
90 countries, we are committed to making sustainable, reliable and 
affordable energy possible. This is how we shape the energy of 
tomorrow.
For more information, please visit our website   
www.siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000  
or contact your local Siemens Energy representative.
This is a new reality, and we need new 
systems to manage it. From secure data 
communications from locations far out at 
sea to smooth interconnections between 
multi-directional power flows across grids, 
we are dealing with a complex and poten-
tially fragmented environment. As with the 
Internet, itself, our task is to turn complexity 
from being a potential weakness into a 
strength. The goal is to engineer possible 
points of failure out of the system, while 
enabling the multiplicity of supply options 
to deliver greater resilience to the system 
as a whole. In this new environment, the 
role of control solutions is paramount and 
absolutely central. That is why Siemens 
Energy has rethought and redesigned its 
proven T3000 solution to bring scalability, 
central control and management certainty  
to a complex new reality. 
16
Whitepaper Omnivise T3000 SCADA16
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Gas Services  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy. Inc  
Gas Services  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
© Siemens 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.