siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
The Task
Landsvirkjun chose to modernize the electrical equipment 
and turbine control system to make the power station 
state-of-the-art. 
To optimize the power output, the turbine control system 
needed be upgraded and a voltage regulator was required 
to secure critical electrical components.
Landsvirkjun was looking for a partner to provide long-term 
support and serviceability during the plant life cycle. The Plant
The Krafla Power Station is a geothermal power plant  
operated by Landsvirkjun. Located in the northeast  
of Iceland, the Power Station was built in the crater of  
the Krafla volcano. It was first brought online in 1978.  
Due to need of modernization, the plant was refurbished, 
and a 2nd unit was installed in 1997.
Geothermal energy is generated with hot water stemming 
from underground reservoirs, which makes this process 
extremely environmentally friendly. 
Generating 500 Gwh/y and with an installed capacity  
of 60 MW, Krafla Power Station is crucial for Iceland’s 
energy supply. 
Kraﬂa Geothermal
Power StationKrafla Geothermal 
Power Station,
Iceland
State-of-the-art controls and electricals 
for high availability and grid support
500 GWh/y
Geothermal Power Output 
Reference | Krafla Geothermal Power Station, Iceland© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 2“Our new Omnivise T3000  
control system and several  
other measures allow us to now 
stabilize the grid with primary 
frequency control. This places 
us light years ahead of where  
we were.”
Jón Arnar Emilsson, Project Manager, LandsvirkjunKrafla geothermal power station is located  
in the crater of the Krafla volcano in Iceland.
The Result
Modernization of Krafla Power Station provided:
• State-of-the-art operation, control technology,  
and electrical equipment 
• Primary frequency control capability  
and contribution to grid stability in Iceland
• Improvement of control accuracy
• Smooth implementation process, with nearly  
no outage timeThe Solution 
Siemens Energy refurbished and integrated several elements, 
such as the Omnivise T3000 control system, including  
turbine governor, hydraulics, monitoring, and instrumenta-
tion, as well as generator electrical equipment.
In order to better adjust the grid connection, the turbine 
control system for the existing pair of MHI DEH turbines 
was updated. Additionally, a compact voltage regulator 
with an integrated power module, along with new protection 
devices, were installed to secure critical electrical 
components. 
Even though all the initially-scoped enhancements were 
made, the project was not finished. Once Landsvirkjun  
realized the potential benefits offered by new hydraulics 
and advanced control algorithms, the improvement ideas 
began to flow, and the project scope expanded over time. 
One of the project’s main achievements was to enable the 
Krafla plant to provide primary frequency control.
With these impressive changes, Krafla power station now 
contributes to grid stability in Iceland and performs more 
efficiently. Therefore, it is considered one of the best  
turbines currently in operation in the country.
Landsvirkjun was impressed with Siemens Energy’s project 
implementation, especially the collaboration with the 
on-site team and the know-how that was freely shared. 
Despite logistical  challenges posed by the Covid-19  
pandemic, Siemens Energy delivered smooth and on-time 
project execution.
Published by and copyright © 2023
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Gas Services  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Gas Services  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USASiemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products.  
The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could 
violate the rights of the owners.