siemens-energy.com/machinery-protection
VIB3000  
Machinery  
Protection
Highest safety and availability  
for your plant assets
Omnivise VIB3000 Machinery Protection  is an integrated 
hardware platform for Machinery Protection, online Condition Monitoring and Vibration Analysis.  
The Siemens Energy solutions consist of hardware components and software tools for data  
analytics relying on sensors. Continuous condition monitoring enables transparency on the  
functioning of processes and aggregates and helps to detect failures at an early stage.
VIB3000-Platform
Modularity of the VIB3000 rack platform – possible configurations:
1. Machinery Protection system with redundant power supply, SIL-1-certified 
2. Machinery Protection system with redundant vibration processing 
3. Combined Machinery Protection and Analysis solution CM500
4. Combined Machinery Protection and Analysis solution CM500  
 with redundant vibration processing 
5. Stand-alone Machinery Analysis system CM500
In a wide range of retrofit projects, the system has proven its adaptability to all kinds  
of sensors, in all kinds of control system environments for all kind of power plants and  
industrial applications.This common platform basically consists of  
a 19” rack backplane (VIB340), up to six 10-  
channel Data Acquisition Boards (VIB320/  
321), and three slots for two types of modules 
determining the functions of the system. 
Depending on the number of Machinery  
Vibration Monitoring Module (VIB310)   
and Machinery Analysis Module (VIB330)  
selected for an application, the assembled 
VIB3000 solution is one of the following.

VIB3000 Machinery Protection© 2021 Siemens EnergyVIB3000 Machinery Protection
Safe operation and high availability are crucial for the eco-
nomic success of a technical asset. In order to maintain its 
safety and availability it is necessary to continuously obtain 
and assess information on a machine’s current condition.
The VIB Machinery Protection System was carefully designed 
to offer security for the machine and its environment from 
the consequences of machine failure and security against 
spurious tripping and thus maximum availability.
Our proven and reliable protection system 
• uses the latest technologies and is at the cutting edge 
in vibration instrumentation,
• avoids outages caused by faults within the protection 
system and always provides the full information,
• reduces the hardware, cabling, and engineering effort  
and simplifies spare part stocking,
• can be operated directly from the control room and 
permits a system status analysis from there.
What differentiates VIB3000 from competitor systems is the wide  
variety of available redundancy options. Depending on customers’ 
redundancy philosophy and needs, VIB3000 can be configured 
to use redundant sensors, redundant signal processing, redundant 
voting and redundant connections to the control system. 
Apart from redundancy, VIB3000 also supports SIL-1 (Safety 
Integrity Level 1) approved by German TÜV signal processing 
and control system communication. CM500 Condition Monitoring
The optional VIB330 Analysis Module extends VIB3000 
Machinery Protection to become a full-blown vibration diagnostic 
system. VIB330 pre-processes vibration samples into vibration 
indicators, which are the basis for the CM500 software. The 
VIB330 also handles the Diagnostic Monitoring of the 
machine by continuously comparing current characteristics 
to reference values derived earlier.
CM500’s online Condition Monitoring features and vibration 
analysis toolkit have matured for more than two decades. 
Today, CM500’s sophisticated High-Sensitivity Diagnostic 
Monitoring features and vibration analysis package comprises 
expert tools for all types of rotating equipment, from turbo 
sets to balance-of-plant machinery.
With CM500 Online Condition Monitoring once alerted, the 
severity of a problem can be actively monitored and the 
operator could e.g. account for the problem by avoiding critical 
operation modes. The condition monitoring system enables 
maintenance engineers to analyze the machine’s condition 
and thus generate valuable information for decision making 
and e.g. overhaul preparation. 
CM500 Condition Monitoring enhances machine availability, 
makes plant availability more predictable and cuts mainte-
nance costs.
Notable features are 
• maximum possible measurement accuracy through 
rotor-triggered data acquisition
• maximum sensitivity to changes, using up to  
1,000 automatically derived limit values per vibration 
measuring point (machine learning)
• comprehensive condition monitoring for current and 
historic machine health at constant and transient operation
• a unique archiving concept with event-oriented  
storage of complete data sets and tools for automated 
data interpretation and
• numerous additional data analysis functions including 
statistical assessments or transient recorder functionality
Published by and copyright © 2021
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany  
Article No. SVXX-B10015-00-7600
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.Our solutions at a glance
Page 2