Service for 
VIB3000 & CM500
Creating maximum value 
without compromising availability 
www.siemens -energy.com/vib3000Ou
r convenient service option for VIB3000 & CM500 enables users to generate maximum value from their 
platforms. The Siemens Energy solution offers expert guidance and advice for maintaining hardware components 
and software tools alike and using them to reach firm specific KPIs. It gives transparency on the functioning of 
processes and helps understanding and implementing results better.
Y
our benefits
▪24/7 expert support for 
maximum value creation
▪Full operational service 
▪Direct and constant
knowledge transfer with 
flexible training units
▪Increased availability for value
across processesS
iemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Unrestricted
On call services hotline, helpline:
Our Service offers 24/7 on call support for 
efficient emergency response by on-site experts. 
Siemens Energy’s highly qualified OEM experts
are on call to actively intervene in case of soft- & 
hardware issues. Access to the Remote Expert 
Center (REC) and OEM spare parts allow for our 
swift, reliable response.
Many day-to-day maintenance tasks can be 
carried out by well-trained operating personnel. 
If more complex problems arise, however, 
specialist know-how is required to prevent 
system inoperability or, in the worst case, a 
shutdown of the plant.
Upon receipt of the fault report, the global 
service network mobilizes a specialist with the 
nearest accessibility to the plant. These specia-
lists are available around the clock, 365 days a 
year, in more than 190 countries.Remote and on-site services:
Regular on-site activities are principally 
scheduled to coincide with planned outages 
during major and minor turbine overhauls. 
Comprehensive inspection and maintenance of 
VIB3000 and CM500 systems are performed by 
our experts. Remote Services allow for 
maintenance activities to be performed by 
remote administration, even during normal 
operation.
The services include IT security packages that 
offer your plant comprehensive protection to 
reduce current cyber threats and to help to
prevent outages. In addition, our Remote Expert 
Center (REC) offers a comprehensive failure-
prevention service. Using the latest tools, we 
conduct system diagnostics on your plant 
remotely at regular intervals.
Hardware basis VIB3000 for 
vibration protection
Diagnostics service is offered for a broad variety 
of users. The important basis is the VIB3000 ma-
chinery protection platform, which  basically 
consists of a 19” rack backplane (VIB340), one
or two protection modules (VIB310) and up to 
six 10- channel data acquisition boards (VIB320
/ 321). For vibration analysis task performed by 
CM500 a VIB330 module is added to the rack.

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen, GermanyF
or more information, please contact
Email: diagnosticservices.se@siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2025
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.The system was carefully designed to offer security for the 
machine and its environment from the consequences of 
machine failure and security against spurious tripping and 
thus offers maximum availability.
What differentiates VIB3000 from competitor systems is the 
wide variety of available redundancy options. Depending on 
customers’ redundancy philosophy and needs, VIB3000 can be 
configured to use redundant sensors, redundant signal 
processing, redundant voting and redundant connections to 
the control system. C
M500 condition monitoring
All CM500 software tools are integrated in software mainte-
nance providing automatic updates, error corrections, security 
patches and modifications. This secures reliable operations 
long after the installation.H
ow much do diagnostic service activities for VIB3000 
hardware and CM500 software components depend on each 
other? - The optional VIB330 analysis module extends VIB3000 
machinery protection to become a full-blown vibration 
diagnostic system. VIB330 pre-processes vibration samples
into vibration indicators, which are the basis for the CM500 
software. The VIB330 also handles the diagnostic monitoring
of the machine by continuously comparing current character-
istics to reference values derived earlier. Today, CM500’s
sophisticated high-sensitivity diagnostic monitoring features 
and vibration analysis package comprises expert tools for all 
types of rotating equipment, from turbo sets to balance-of-
plant machinery. With CM500 online condition monitoring 
once alerted, the severity of a problem can be actively 
monitored, and the operator could e. g. account for the 
problem by avoiding critical operation modes. The condition 
monitoring system enables maintenance engineers to analyze 
the machine’s condition and thus generate valuable
information for decision making and efficient overhaul 
preparation.
Our main goal is to support this by giving you the right 
recommendation and support you to understand and interpret 
these results. Benefit from training and knowledge transfer 
that will help you keep your plant running, increase availability 
and optimize OEM strategies.Module overview
Hotline: 24/7 support by system experts to
increase plant availability with no limitation 
concerning the frequency and duration of 
Remote Expert Center (REC) use.
Helpline: Get the full OEM know -how (e. g. 
engineering support, function knowledge) 
with direct access to Siemens Energy 
experts worldwide when needed.So
ftware maintenance : Modification of 
security patches and functional patches 
(CM500 software updates) to make 
necessary adjustments to a changing 
environment after delivery.On-s
ite- / remote inspection:
Instrumentation and data support check the 
measurement chain functionality and data 
quantity for maximal user comfort. Includes 
product service, system health and
condition check of VIB3000 and VIS 
computer hardware and CM500 software 
settings.T
raining & workshops: Unlimited access to 
online training videos and documents 
enable self-paced learning for professional 
system usage. Topics are categorized by 
interests and allow skill transfer for efficient 
operation.
Siemens Energy Inc.                           
4400 Alafaya Trail
Orlando, F L 32826, USA