siemens-energy.com/diagnostic-services
Diagnostic Services
Expert support for improved maintenance planning
It is not only about detecting deviations from normal behavior, but also to 
find the root cause for the anomalies. The Siemens Energy Diagnostic Ser -
vices team combines in-depth analytics with years of domain expertise to 
provide you with most reliable information on the health condition of your 
assets.
Services are based on CM500 Condition Monitoring (also known as Vibroex-
pert CM500), the diagnostic monitoring solution for all power plant machin-
ery. Monitoring and detection of abnormal machine behavior at the earliest 
possible time enables the planning of cost-effective solutions. By sensitive 
diagnostic monitoring, CM500 Condition Monitoring provides information on 
possible mechanical causes of abnormal behavior (unbalance, bearing dam-
age, incorrect alignment, cracks and loose parts). The solution includes all 
tools used for analysis and diagnostics and thus for determining the causes 
of machinery health issues. As part of the Siemens Energy Diagnostic Ser -
vices you will get regular status reports and event-based notifications on the 
health of your assets from experienced Siemens Energy diagnostic experts. 
Additionally, you can request detailed reports and recommendations on 
demand to be able to schedule necessary repairs e.g. during a planned 
outage. Siemens Energy Diagnostic Services is available for any kind of turbo 
machinery (Siemens Energy or other manufacturers) including hydro genera-
tors, fans, pumps, motors, gearboxes, compressors, etc.Continuous condition moni-
toring is the corner stone of 
transparency on the health 
status of machines.
As a maintenance manager 
you need to understand 
your asset risk profiles in 
order to be able to move 
from reactive maintenance 
to condition-based mainte-
nance strategies.
 Setting the baseline
 One-oﬀ payment at the beginning
• Recording of machine data
• Setting up the Vibroexpert 
 CM500 software
• Setting of limit values according 
 to ISO
• Deﬁning the tolerance zones 
 for monitoring the normal 
 behavior of the machinesPrerequisite CM500 
Condition Monitoring
for Diagnostic Services
Leading system for condition monitoring 
and root cause analysis for turbomachinery 
and balance of plant equipment.
Required: Remote access on demand for 
nominated Siemens Energy employees or 
alternatively regular transfer of measured 
values to Siemens Energy for diagnostics.
Buy or rent option for system if not already 
installed.
 Corrective 
 actions
 Additional order
• Balancing
• Alignment
 Further information 
 on request Regular and event-
 based status reports
 Annual expenditure
• Regular status reports in the 
 contractually agreed cycle 
 (12x, 6x, 4x per year)
• Additional status reports in 
 case of violation of limit 
 values / tolerance zones*
• Status report containing 
 list of machines with limit 
 value violations and 
 associated measured values
• Option to order detailed 
 reports
* if the system is allowed sending 
 email notiﬁcations to Siemens Energy
 Detailed report and 
 recommendations 
 on demand 
 Payment on demand
In case of an oﬃcial request 
by an authorized person:
• Detailed analysis of the 
 machine condition
• Identiﬁcation of causes of 
 abnormal machine behavior
• Recommendations for actionThe Sequence of Diagnostic Services
Detailed report and recommendations on demand  Regular and event-based status reportsCorrective actions

© 2021 Siemens EnergySiemens Energy Diagnostic Services 
provides you with reliable in-depth 
analysis of your assets’ health status.
Regular status and event-based  
reports indicate what is happening  
when and where. Detailed reports  
with recommendations from  
experienced Siemens Energy  
diagnostic experts support you in  
planning corrective actions and thus 
cutting operating costs.
With more than a century of service to the power generation 
industry, Siemens Energy brings experience, quality and 
expertise to every project. In fact, our O&M fleet experience 
totals more than 55 GW worldwide.
Published by and copyright © 2021
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany  
Contact: diagnostic-services.energy@siemens.com
Article No. SVXX-B10008-00-7600
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract.
Page 4Expert support  
 on demand
Improved  
maintenance  
planning
Fast information  
in  case of  
anomalies