Unrestricted  © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  1 
 
 
  
siemens -energy.com  Hydrogen power 
and heat with  
Siemens Energy 
gas turbines  
Reliable and flexible carbon -free energy  
 

Unrestricted  © 2025 Siemens Energy  Page  2  
 
 
 
 
 Today, gas turbines play a vital role in 
addressing the threat of global warming and 
making energy greener. Gas turbines are in the 
category of the cleanest fossil -fuel based power 
generation solutions and are ideally suited to 
manage the intermittency of increasing 
renewable loads by providing reliable and on -
demand power. Gas  turbines will remain an 
even more important element in power grids as 
electrification trends toward full 
decarbonization and the hydrogen economy 
starts to unfold.  
 
By burning hydrogen as a fuel, either through 
co-firing or complete displacement of natural 
gas, gas turbines can provide low -carbon or 
even carbon -free power solutions. Gas turbines 
play a key role in enabling a smooth transition 
from a fossil fuel -based to a fully decarbonized 
power system because they provide highly flex-ible and dispatchable generation to support fu-
ture grids largely dominated by intermittent re-
newable power.  They can also provide much 
needed grid ancillary services - even when the 
gas t urbine is not producing active power  -, 
which will become more important as the sys-
tem moves to a largely renewable -dominated 
production.  These capabilities make gas tur-
bines ideally suited to helping to meet the World Energy Council’s trilemma of secure,  
affordable , and environmentally sustainable 
energy.  
 In the future, increasing use of hydrogen fuels 
will enable the conversion of thousands of gas 
turbine operating units worldwide into reliable and environmentally sustainable decarboniza-
tion agents. Therefore, owners of existing gas 
turbine power plants an d the ones soon to be 
developed can be confident of their plants’ roles in supporting the future energy transition.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Karim Amin  
Member of Executive Board and EVP  
Gas Services  | Siemens Energy  
  
Frida Björneld  
Vice President of Product Management  
Gas Services  | Siemens Energy  
   
siemens -energy.com  

Unrestricted  © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  3  
 
 
 
 
 
1 Why use hydrogen as a fuel for gas 
turbines?  
Page 4 
 The need for hydrogen to decarbonize 
power generation  
 The impact of hydrogen gas turbines on 
the power sector  
 Application paths for gas turbines  
Where does the hydrogen come from?  
  
 
2 Hydrogen combustion  
Page 9 
 Hydrogen combustion fundamentals  
 Dry Low Emission (DLE) combustion 
technology  
 Non-DLE combustion technology  
NO x emission correction  
  
 
3 Hydrogen capabilities in Siemens 
Energy gas  turbines  
Page 11 
 Siemens Energy gas turbine hydrogen 
operating experience  
 Detailed information on GT families  
Technology enablers and Siemens Energy 
roadmap toward 100% hydrogen gas 
turbines  
Summary  
 
   
 
 
 
 
4 Hydrogen capab ility of power plant 
systems  
Page 19 
 Additional systems required for hydrogen 
co-firing  
Power plant component considerations  at 
hydrogen co -firing  
Hydrogen readiness for new gas turbine 
power plants   
 
 
5 Upgrading Siemens Energy gas turbines 
for higher hydrogen  fuel content 
operation  
Page 22 
 The requirement to upgrade existing gas 
turbines to hydrogen operation  
What about the installed fleet of Siemens 
Energy gas turbines?  
 Can I upgrade my gas turbine power 
plant?  
 
 
6 Abbreviations  
Page 24 
 
 
7 References  
Page 2 5 
  
 
 
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  4 The need for hydrogen to 
decarbonize power generation  
Global warming, caused by anthropogenic emissions such as 
carbon dioxide, methane , and other greenhouse gases, 
threatens to disrupt the ecosystems on which we all depend. In October 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC) released a special report that details the im-
pacts of global warming of 1.5 °C and higher above p re-in-
dustrial levels. Revising their original target of keeping global warming below 2  °C, the IPCC warned that warming above 
1.5 °C is not sustainable in the long -term. Instead, the IPCC 
now recommends reducing the target for global temperature 
increases to just 1 -1.5 °C until the end of the century [1].  
 
The IPCC’s target of limiting the global temperature rise to no 
more than 1.5 °C require s limiting  annual global emissions to  
25–30 gigatons (Gt) carbon dioxide (CO
2) equivalent per year 
range by 2030 [1], however in 2023 annual worldwide emis-
sions reached 37.4Gt  CO 2 [2]. The energy sector is a major 
contributor to global greenhouse emissions with a global share of around 44 % while the remaining 56% are emitted 
from other sectors such as industry, mobility and residential 
[3]. While last data indicates that  the 1.5 °C temperature  
limit is already difficult to impossible to reach, it is of in-
creased importance to limit global warming to a temperature  
increase o f below 2 °C.   
 
For the last few decades, the focus for reducing the carbon 
emissions in the energy sector has been on the development 
of renewable generation using mainly wind and solar energy. While renewables do not produce carbon emissions, they in-
troduce a high level  of intermittency due to changing 
weather conditions and variations in solar irradiation. This is often coupled with mismatches between the demand and 
supply of energy. While demand -side management can play a 
large role in handling these mismatches, supply  management 
through curtailment of renewables during times of oversup-ply, energy storage, and providing backup power with dis-
patchable, flexible conventional power plants is also re-
quired. In recent years, a variety of storage options have 
emerged allowing  short -term storage during the day as well 
as long -term storage through whole seasons. While batteries 
are well -suited to help manage the daily peak shift from mid -
day to evenings, energy storage in chemical form appears as 
the only viable solution to stor e energy for longer periods 
and for seasonal storage.  
 Of the conventional thermal -fuel generation technologies, 
combined cycle power plants are the most efficient and clean option. The switch of an existing coal power plant to a new 
combined cycle power plant running on natural gas will re-duce specific carbon dioxyde emissions by up to 65%. Com-
pared to separately producing electricity in a combined cycle 
plant and producing heat in a fossil -fuel fired boiler, cogener-
ation of heat and power in combined heat and power plants 
further reduces the specific CO
2 emissions. The total energy 
efficiency of modern gas turbines with cogeneration can sur-
pass 90%. 
 Carbon neutrality is becoming a key long -term goal for coun-
tries and organizations. The European Union (EU) has set an example by aiming to reach this goal by 2050  and 90% CO
2 
emission reduction by 2040 . However, switching from coal to 
natural gas power generation and improving efficienc y can 
only  be the first step towards it. After replacement of coal 
power stations with new gas -fired power combined -cycle 
power plants, the next step is to work to a full decarboniza-
tion of gas turbines. This can be done either by switching to 
hydrogen, using other sustaina ble fuels such as biofuels or 
hydrogen derivatives (e.g. ammonia or methanol) or through Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). Al l decarbonization op-
tions are described in the Whitepaper "Decarbonization Path-
ways for Hydrogen" by Siemens Energy [4] . This whitepaper 
focuses solely on hydrogen as a fuel for gas turbines.  
 
Displacement of natural gas with sustainable hydrogen  (H
2) 
is a viable means of enabling carbon neutral power plant op-
eration as hydrogen combustion produces no CO 2. Addition-
ally, blending natural gas and hydrogen can substantially 
lower carbon emissions and provide a steady reduction of 
emissions as the hydrogen portion in the fuel is continuously 
increased over time. For hydrogen mixtures the relationship 
between CO 2 reduction and hydrogen volume content is non -
linear as shown in Figure 1.  
 1  Why use hydrogen as a fuel for gas turbines?  
Figure 1: Relationship between hydrogen  content in natural gas  
[volume %] and relative CO 2 emissions from the combustion process  
 

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  5 Substituting natural gas with hydrogen over time means that 
power plants remain  eligible for operation even with in-
creased CO 2 emission regulatory limits . New regulations  put 
more stringent requirements on carbon emission from power and heat generation.  
 Going forward , hydrogen fueled gas turbines and combined  
cycle power plants will enable a fully decarbonized power  
system, as planned e.g. in the UK or Germany. In such decar-
bonized power systems renewable energy provides the back-
bone of all energy consumed, and the combined and simple 
cycle power plants provides the residual load for periods of 
low renewable energy production , so called "dark doldrums" 
(dark and wind still periods) , as well as enabling large scale, 
seasonal storage of renewable electricity.  
 
The hydrogen fuel blending not only lowers CO
2 emissions of 
gas turbines, it also ensures that the gas turbines can act as  
long -term electricity storage by means of  hydrogen re-electri-
fication. Hydrogen can serve as a chemical storage vehicle by 
being produced through electrolysis (or other processes) dur-
ing times of excess renewable energy generation and then 
used to fuel gas turbines, converted to hydrogen derivatives 
or sold  to other industries  as shown in Figure 2 . 
 As shown in Figure 1,  to reach a 50% reduction in CO
2 emis-
sions from the gas turbine combustion process, approxi-mately 77vol -% hydrogen co -firing is needed. Due to the high 
costs of sustainable hydrogen compared with natural gas, op-
eration of hydrogen in gas turbines  is not economically com-
petitive with natural gas today , and governmental support, 
carbon taxation and/or legislation is essential to accelerate 
the deploy ment of hydrogen as a fuel . Co-firing in small 
quantities or in a smaller gas turbine already improves the 
emission footprint with an acceptable economic impact. For example, adding only 10 vol% hydrogen in the fuel will re-
duce CO
2 emissions by 2.7%, which would result in a reduc-
tion of 30 ,000 metric tons of CO 2 for a reference 850 MW 
combined cycle power plant that runs for 6 ,000 hours a year 
at an average 6 0% efficiency.  
 
 
The impact of hydrogen gas turbines 
on the power sector  
 
In January 2019, the EU  Turbines industry association mem-
bers committed to developing gas turbines capable of operat-
ing on 100% hydrogen by 2030  [5]. This shows the gas tur-
bine industry’s commitment to decarbonization and will make it possible to use gas turbines for completely carbon 
emissions -free operation.  
 
The use of hydrogen in gas turbines has several benefits to 
the power sector.  
• For operators, the use of hydrogen fuels reduces the car-bon emissions of existing generation plants. It allows these 
facilities to participate in low carbon energy markets, 
makes flexible and decarbonized generation capacity avail-
able and prevents  stranded assets due to potential future 
regulations on emissions reductions.  
• For the grid, gas turbines operating on hydrogen fuel or hydrogen fuel mixtures are dispatchable and make flexible 
and decarbonized generation capacity available.  In addi-
tion to providing inertia, they also provide much needed 
grid ancillary services such as reactive power control, volt-
age control and short circuit power. Optionally, gas tur-
bines and combined cycle power plants can be prepared to Figure 2: Production, transport and uses of hydrogen.  

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  6 be black start capable as well as to act as synchronous con-
denser in times where the unit is not providing active 
power.  
• For the power sector, continuing to use the installed fleet 
of gas turbines avoids capital costs and CO 2 emissions asso-
ciated with building new facilities to support the intermit-tent renewable energy market. Gas turbines in combined 
heat and power arrangements in various applications can 
provide steam and heat for industrial processes or district 
heating, especially as these plants will operate at times 
when there is a lack of renewable power, and thus also a 
lack of power to operate heat pumps, which will be the 
main technology to decarbonize lower temperature heat 
applications. Indeed, residual load and residual heat times 
are concurrent, so use of gas turbines for residual load and heat (through CHP) makes much sense.  
 
In the IEA Net Zero 2050 scenario  [6], hydrogen for electricity 
generation  is estimated to increase to 373 TWh by 
2030, 1028  TWh by 2040 and 1161 TWh by 2050. This would 
mean  according to IEA, an average blend of 5.9% hydrogen 
by 2030 and 87 % hydrogen by 2050.   
 
 
Application  path s for gas turbines  
 
There are various application paths emerging for gas turbines 
related to operation on 100% hydrogen or hydrogen blends 
mixed with other fuels, e.g . natural gas  or biogas.  
 Renewable electricity or electricity from other zero carbon 
sources could be used to generate hydrogen in times of elec-
tricity oversupply, which is then stored until needed. Up to 100% hydrogen can then be burned in peaking or intermit-
tent operation gas turbine and combined cycle power plants 
to provide zero or low carbon electricity and compensate for insufficient amounts of renewable electricity, thus providing 
sustainable residua l (backup) power. Gas turbines are the op-
timal solution since it can provide  both fast power for shorter 
intervals as well as operation for days, weeks and even 
months on stored hydrogen. In Combined Heat and Power 
(CHP) plants, the exhaust heat from the hydrogen combus-
tion could be reused to a large extent to improve the energy 
efficiency of the hydrogen used in the re -electrification pro-
cess, e.g. for district heating or process heat production.  
 
 
Wher e does the hydrogen come 
from?  
 
The source of the hydrogen should be considered when as-
sessing its impacts on carbon emissions in power generation applications. Hydrogen production can be classified accord-
ing to its carbon footprint and production method:  
 
Green Hydrogen  
Hydrogen production with zero associated CO
2 emissions, 
such as electrolysis using electricity from 100% renewable 
sources. Emerging technologies may also be classified as 
green if there are no CO 2 emissions associated with the elec-
tricity required for the process.  
 
Blue Hydrogen  
CO 2 capture systems are fitted to the hydrogen production 
technology and the CO 2 sequestered in underground aquifers 
or depleted oil and gas fields.  CO 2 capture is not 100% Figure 3: Sources of hydrogen generation.  
 
 
 

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  7 efficient, so some CO 2 will always be released to the atmos-
phere. This fact, coupled with typical upstream methane 
emissions make blue hydrogen a largely, but not 100% sus-
tainable hydrogen. Depending on the c arbon capture effec-
tiveness, blue hydrogen reduce s GHG emissions usually be-
tween 70 and 85% compared with grey hydrogen.  
 Grey / Black / Brown  Hydrogen  
Hydrogen is produced conventionally from natural gas with 
Steam Methane Reforming (grey), lignite (brown) or bitumi-
nous coal (black), using coal gasification. In all these cases, 
CO
2 is produced during the hydrogen production process and 
released to atmosphere. To date, more than 90% of the 
worldwide hydrogen is supplied via this route. Using these 
for power generation  would  generate even larger amounts of 
CO 2 emissions  than with  natural gas.  However, t he use of s ur-
plus hydrogen -rich flare gases from petroc hemical sources , 
e.g. in a combined heat and power plant  is economically a 
very attractive option already today , which increases the effi-
ciency of the hydrogen utilization compared with a more tra-ditional combustion in a stand -alone boiler . 
 
Turquoise  Hydrogen  
Hydrogen produced  through methane pyrolysis with carbon 
sequestration . While this is also a low carbon pathway for 
producing hydrogen, it is not yet commercially available . 
 Other  Hydrogen  sources  
There are also additional color codes for other forms of hy-
drogen production:  
• White hydrogen: Extracted from naturally occurring geo-logical hydrogen reservoirs, a potentially attractive carbon -
neutral (but not sustainable) source of hydrogen   
• Pink hydrogen (sometimes also referred to as red or pur-
ple): Produced through electrolysis from nuclear power  
• Yellow hydrogen: Produced through electrolysis from grid 
mix of renewables and fossil energy. Some associate this 
color only to solar power  
• Orange hydrogen: Produced from plastic and other waste.  
 
According to the Net Zero 2050 scenario by IEA by 2050, ap-
proximately 78% of all sustainable hydrogen produced will come from low -emissions electricity (green) and the remain-
der from fossil fuels with CCS (blue).  
 
Hydrogen carriers  
There are various carbon neutral hydrogen carriers suitable for storage or long -distance transport, e.g. via synthesis of 
ammonia and Liquid Organic Hydrogen Carriers  (LOHC ). Plans 
are being made to allow transportation of hydrogen in liquid form or via hydrogen carriers by ship to allow worldwide 
trading in case pipeline  supply of hydrogen is  technically or 
commercially not a viable option. According to the Hydrogen 
Council , the optimal carrier depends on the intended end -use, purity requirements , transpor t distance  and the need for 
long -term storage  [7]. The long -term optimal choice of car-
rier depends on a range of factors : Liquid hydrogen is most 
efficient if the destination requires liquid or high -purity hy-
drogen, and has benefits if hydrogen needs to be distributed 
with trucks after landing at port. This is typically the case for 
hydrogen refueling stations for cars or tr ucks. In contrast to 
ammonia and LOHC, liquid hydrogen does not require dehy-
drogenation or cracking to convert into gaseous hydrogen, 
which not only saves costs but also avoids purity challenges 
caused by carrier residues. The main drawback of liquid hy-drogen is its relatively low volumetric energy density com-
pared with ammonia, which limits the amount of hydrogen 
per ship, the energy req uired for liquefaction and the boil -off 
losses that occur with every day of storage. While liquefac-
tion is a proven and commercialized technology, liquid hydro-
gen shipping and large -scale storage –  which requires suppli-
ers to manage the boil -off losses –  remain in the early stages 
of deployment.  
 Hydrogen transport via pipelines (blended/dedicated)  
Hydrogen produced from any source (green, blue or grey) 
can be injected into the existing natural gas network. In this 
case, any consumer (industrial, commercial or domestic) 
would  be required to operate gas -fired equipment using nat-
ural gas with a hydrogen content. This may pose a challenge 
to many consumers and additional investment would be re-
quired to have all connected hardware able to run with hy-
drogen in the fuel. The hydrogen percentage could vary de-
pending on the purity of the injected hydrogen, th e injection 
frequency (continuous or intermittent), the complexity of the network, and the distance of the consumer from the point of 
injection.  
 
While some customers of natural gas could easily adapt to 
consume a methane -hydrogen blend (e.g. gas turbines), 
other sectors may have difficulties accepting higher hydrogen 
blends, and some (like the chemical industry) are interested 
in the methane molecu le itself , rather than only in the en-
ergy content of the gas. In addition, many small natural gas appliances are limited to less than 20% hydrogen content, 
hence requiring limiting the blending quota in varying oper-
ating conditions (both the natural gas co nsumption and the 
production of hydrogen from renewable energy show signifi-cant, frequently opposite seasonality). Such an approach will require regulators to redefine the permissible specifications 
for “pipeline quality” natural gas. High pressure transmi ssion 
pipelines can be adapted to carry different hydrogen contents 
with limited retrofit requirements. While changes to valves 
and compression stations will be required, the pipes them-
selves would usually not require replacement. Unchanged, 
pipelines toda y are unlikely to exceed 25 vol% hydrogen due 
to concerns over leakage through seals, welds,  and valves  or 
other mechanical constraints, while several sectors will be 
very critical with fluctuating or hydrogen contents already 
over 5%.  
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  8 Hence, an alternative (and more feasible option) to hydrogen 
blended into existing pipeline s is a second, dedicated hydro-
gen pipeline to run in parallel to the natural gas lines, repur-
posed from an existing natural gas pipeline. Older gas net-
works built for town or city gas, e.g. old town gas pipes, can 
already accept hydrogen contents of up to 50%. Cross -linked 
polyethylene (XLPE) pipes used in low pressure natural gas 
distribution systems appear to be suitable for up to 100% hy-
drogen. In the long term, ga s networks can be rebuilt to carry 
100% hydrogen. The highly integrated European natural gas 
transmission networks represent an economically advanta-
geous way to distribute large quantities of energy as re-
quired. The pipeline networks are available, sociall y accepted, 
and can be gradually converted to hydrogen operation with 
an investment of an estimated 10 -15% of the cost of new 
constructio n. [8] The European Hydrogen Backbone (EHB) In-
itiative is planning to deploy a separate hydrogen pipeline in-
frastructur e for 100% hydrogen through reconversion of 
some existing natural gas pipelines and a few new hydrogen pipeline builds. This initiative will be executed over the next 
decades and gradually lead to a European network that links 
main production sites, import  terminals, underground stor-
age caverns and main consumers of hydrogen. [9]  
 
As different approaches (blended vs. pure hydrogen) might 
be used in different regions, gas turbines must therefore be 
able to operate in the future on any fuel gas from 100% natu-
ral gas to the maximum hydrogen content permissible on the 
pipeline network.   
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  9 Hydrogen combustion fundamentals 
 
Hydrogen differs from hydrocarbon fuels by its combustion 
characteristics, which pose unique challenges for gas turbine 
combustion systems designed primarily for natural gas fuels. 
Flame temperatures for hydrogen under adiabatic and stoi-
chiometric conditions are almost 300 ºC higher than for me-
thane. Hydrogen’s laminar flame speed is  up to 8 times that 
of methane  and the auto -ignition delay time of hydrogen is 
more than three time s lower than methane, as shown in Fig-
ure 4 for flame temperatures of 1600 °C  and gas turbine con-
ditions . With these characteristics hydrogen is a highly reac-
tive fuel and controlling the fla me to maintain the integrity 
of the combustion system and reach the desired level of 
emissions is a formidable challenge for research and develop-
ment teams.  
 
 
 
Dry Low Emission (DLE) combustion 
technology  
 In dry low emissions combustion systems, fuel and air are 
mixed prior to combustion in order to precisely control flame 
temperature which, in turn, allows the control of the rates of 
chemical processes that produce emissions such as nitrogen 
oxides (NO
x). The relative proportions of fuel and air is one of 
the driving factors for NO x but also for flame stability. Hydro-
gen’s higher reactivity poses specific challenges for the mix-ing technology in DLE systems: 
 • Higher flame speed with hydrogen increase s the risk of 
the flame burning closer to the injection points, travel-
ling back into mixing passages , or burning too close to 
liner walls leading to damage (see example in Figure 5). 
This risk increases as the hydrogen content in the fuel is 
increased and with increasing combustion inlet and 
flame temperature  
• Hydrogen’s lower auto -ignition delay compared to me-
thane increases the likelihood of igniting the fuel in the mixing passages leading to damage  
• Changes to thermoacoustic noise patterns because of the different flame heat release distribution can affect 
combustion stability and reduce the life of combustion 
system components . 
 Siemens Energy DLE combustion systems generally use swirl 
stabilized flames combined with lean premixing to achieve 
low NO
x emissions without dilution of the fuel. The accepta-
ble fuel fraction of hydrogen depends on the specific com-
bustion system design and engine operating conditions. 
Hardware and control system changes are required for higher 
safety, meet NO x emission limits and manage varying fuel 
compositions. Siemens Energy is in the process of extending 
the hydrogen capability of its DLE systems, with more details 
provided in the following sections.  
 As hydrogen capabilities are still under development for the 
different turbine families, some operational restrictions may 
be required at high hydrogen contents. These may include 
derating, the use of a conventional fuel for startup and shut-
down, and highe r NO
x emission levels which may require the 
need for post -combustion emission control like Selective Cat-
alytic Reduction (SCR) systems. In the long term, we envisage performance levels with hydrogen combustion comparable to 
natural gas operation.  
 
 
 
 2  Hydrogen combustion  
Figure 4: Hydrogen’s impact on auto -ignition delay for hydrogen -me-
thane mixtures . 
Figure 5: Flame position changes with increasing hydrogen fuel con-
tent, showing the most compact flame at 100% hydrogen. Also note 
how the 100% hydrogen flame is not as luminous as the natural gas 
flame  [10] . 

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  10 Non-DLE combustion technology  
 
Non -DLE technology uses diffusion flames or partially pre-
mixed flames. There are several advantages and disad-
vantages associated with non -DLE systems:  
 
• In general, these systems handle a large envelope of fuel 
compositions, and 100% hydrogen is possible on various 
Siemens Energy non -DLE gas turbines  
• Diffusion flames require dilution to control NO x emis-
sions, which are driven by high flame temperatures. Hy-
drogen has higher flame temperatures compared to nat-
ural gas, which means  NO x emission will be higher with-
out abatement. Dilution is achieved by the introduction 
of nitrogen (N 2), steam, or water into the flame:  
o Nitrogen dilution has the advantage of being availa-
ble at the plant as a cracking product in cases of am-
monia cracking . Using the nitrogen produced as a 
byproduct to dilute the fuel reduces plant operating 
costs. 
o Steam dilution is significantly more efficient than ni-
trogen dilution in terms of emission reduction and in 
combined cycle or Combined Heat and Power (CHP) 
configurations steam dilution has a relatively small 
plant efficiency impact.  
o Injection of water into the combustor reduces the 
combustion flame temperature, thereby reducing 
NO x and has the added benefit of boosting power 
output of the gas turbine.  
 
High costs and increased turbine maintenance associated 
with dilution  due to the injection of nitrogen or demineral-
ized water make diffusion flames with this abatement tech-nology rather unattractive.  
 
• For single shaft gas turbines, surge margin can be a chal-
lenge with diluted high -hydrogen fuels due to changes in 
the balance of volumetric flow between the compressor 
and turbine. This can be managed by compressor and / or 
turbine modifications . 
 
 
NO x emission correction when  
burning hydrogen rich fuels  
When burning hydrogen rich fuels, attention needs to be 
placed on the emission limit calculation methodology, which 
leads to a different range of values compared with conven-
tional fuels.  
Today, most emission limit regulations are defining NO x emis-
sions as a relative concentration of NO x in the exhaust gas of 
the turbine, e.g. as ppmv or mg/N m3, but always referenced 
to 15% O2 content in the exhaust gas and to dry exhaust conditions. This calculation method was selected for ease and consistency of measurement across different turbines ex-
cess air and operational profiles.  
With hydrogen as a fuel, this leads to a double change of the 
correction factor: On one hand, there is more water vapour in the exhaust gas, so normalizing to dry exhaust conditions in-creases the ppm number. Similarly, combusting H
2 leads to a 
reduced consumption of oxygen, which again requires a 
larger correction factor increasing the ppm value. At 100% 
H2, these effects lead to numerically overinflated NO x emis-
sions by 37.2% (see F igure 6). These effects need to be taken 
into account when setting new NO x emission limits or when 
comparing emissions between different fuels. 
As a solution to this calculation bias, it is recommended to 
adapt the measurement unit to neutralize the emission bias 
of the fuel. This can be done either via a fuel correction fac-
tor or via a switch from a volumetric to a mass specific meas-
urement unit,  e.g. mg per energy unit (consumed or pro-
duced). A potential variation of the hydrogen content in the 
fuel over time also needs to be taken into account.  
 
 
 
  Figure 6: Energy -based emissions correction factor for increasing  
hydrogen content in natural gas as a factor of the blending rate  

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  11 Siemens Energy gas turbine hydrogen 
operating experience  
Siemens Energy fleet experience with high hydrogen content 
fuels is extensive, with more than 55 units around the world 
amassing more than  2.5 million operating hours since the 
1960s. High hydrogen gas turbine applications have been 
built for a range of industries and span the power range of 
the Siemens Energy gas turbine portfolio. Experience has 
been gained on unabated diffusion flame, Wet  Low Emissions 
(WLE), and Dry Low Emissions (DLE) combustion technolo-
gies. Although many of these references are based  on hydro-
gen-rich synfuels, which offer a different combustion behav-
ior compared with a natural gas -hydrogen fuel mixture, Sie-
mens Energy has gained a high level of experience  in manag-
ing hydrogen on a plant level and within their  gas turbine 
systems (see F igure 7). 
 
 Siemens Energy gas turbines can operate on high percent-
ages of hydrogen fuel, with the specific capability of a unit 
depending on the gas turbine model and the type of combus-
tion system. See Figure 8  for the high -hydrogen options  
across the portfolio for new unit applications that are availa-ble on specific request. For already installed units the current 
capabilities are given in the gas turbine manual. Higher hy-
drogen mixtures for those existing power plants and options 
for upgrading are discussed in Secti on 5.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 3  Hydrogen capabilities in Siemens Energy gas 
turbines  
Figure 7: Siemens Energy’s high hydrogen fleet experience.  
 

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  12 Detailed information on GT families  
 
Large gas turbines  
DLE technology  
Around the beginning of this century, gasification processes 
were developed to convert coal or refinery residues via gasifi-
cation and carbon monoxide (CO) shift reaction into CO 2 and 
hydrogen. Following conversion, CO 2 is removed prior to 
feeding the synthetic gas ( syngas ) to the gas turbine. These 
Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) syngases are characterized 
by a very  high reactivity, as the thermal input to combustion 
is almost completely from hydrogen. Significant development of these processes occurred during the 2000s and 2010s with 
governmental support (EU, United States Department of En-
ergy (US DOE) [11] , and German Federal Ministry for Eco-
nomic Affairs and Energy (BMWi) [12] ). One of the central fo-
cus areas of these governmentally funded programs was re-
search and development of combustion technology for DLE 
systems in large gas turbines, with the goal of substant ially 
reducing or eliminating dilution in order to maximize plant 
efficiency. While CCS -gasification plants are not yet commer-
cially viable, the related research into highly reactive hydro-gen fuels has contributed to the development of future pure 
hydrogen capable DLE technology.  
Siemens Energy heavy -duty large gas turbines SGT5/6 -2000E 
and SGT5/6 -4000F use the HR3 burner design. Based on a hybrid burner concept, the HR3 has a central pilot swirler and 
a concentric diagonal swirler with gas injection through the 
swirler vanes (SFI). The SGT6 -5000F and SGT5/6 -8000H use 
Ultra -Low NO
x Platform Combustion System (ULN/PCS) sys-
tems which integrate SFI technology into a premixed pilot 
and concentrically arranged main swirlers. These burners 
combined have accumulated many millions of operat ing 
hours and offer a wide range of fuel flexibility including the 
capability to run on mixtures of natural gas and up to 30 vol% 
hydrogen. The latest SGT5/6 -9000HL engines use the ad-
vanced combustion for efficiency (ACE) system, which is ca-
pable to run on  up to 50 vol% hydrogen. By 2030, commit-
ments by Siemens Energy ask for the commercial availability 
of large gas turbines capable of running on 100% hydrogen 
in DLE mode . Figure 8: Siemens gas turbine portfolio hydrogen co- firing capability for new unit applications. Retrofit capabilities of existing units may vary due to 
unique site constraints, combustion systems, implementation timing and other factors.  
Figure 9: SGT -4000F annular combustion chamber . 

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  13  
Figure 10: SGT -5000F combustion system . 
In 2022, two Siemens Energy SGT5 -2000E utility scale gas 
turbines were commissioned  to run commercially on a 27.2% 
H2 content in the fuel with DLE technology. The power plant 
operates on a hydrogen -rich refinery offgas, providing Com-
bined Heat and Power (CHP) in baseload mode to the adja-
cent refinery. This hydrogen cofiring capability was achieved 
through incremental  and retrofittable changes to the geome-
try of the burners to improve flashback resistance at higher 
hydrogen contents. It was tested and validated through a high -pressure combustion test at engine conditions. Valida-
tion testing has indicated that NO
x emissions will not exceed 
50 mg/Nm3 during both operations  on natural gas and with 
the hydrogen fuel mixture.   
In December 2024, UK energy company SSE Thermal and Sie-mens Energy announced an accelerated hydrogen power partnership, launching “Mission H
2 Power” – a collaboration 
which aims to deliver gas turbine technology capable of run-
ning on 100% hydrogen, fuelling the transition to net zero 
and potentially boosting the UK’s energy security. The project 
builds on the existing partnership between SSE and Siemens 
Energy. It support s the decarbonisation of SSE’s Keadby 2 
Power Station in North Lincolnshire, which is p owered by  a  
Siemens Energy’s SGT5 -9000HL gas turbine.  
Under the co- investment , Siemens Energy will develop a 
combustion system for its SGT5 -9000HL gas turbine capable 
of operating on 100% hydrogen, while maintaining the flexi-
bility to operate with natural gas and any blend of the two. 
This will see additional facilities constructed at Siemens En-
ergy’s Clean Energy Centre in Berlin to allow testing of the 
technology for large gas turbines to take place [13] . 
No -DLE Technology  
Since the early 1990s, Siemens Energy has gained experience operating some of its large gas turbine products employing 
non-DLE combustion technology on hydrogen fuel mixtures, 
specifically in applications of gasification processes with dif-
ferent feedstocks (coal, waste from the petrochemical indus - 
 try, and biomass) and waste gases from steel mills (coke oven 
and blast furnace gases) [14] . These syngases  are mixtures of 
varying composition, but typically have significant fractions 
of hydrogen and CO, as well as inert gases (N
2, CO 2, steam). 
In general, Siemens Energy is focusing its hydrogen R&D on 
DLE technology only. Other forms of NO x abatement such as 
WLE are not being developed due to their very high water 
consumption and operating costs. 
 
Figure 11: SGT5/6 -9000HL combustion system . 
 
Medium industrial gas turbines  
DLE technology  
Figure 12: 3rd generation DLE combustion system . 
The SGT -600, 700 and 800 use 3rd generation DLE technol-
ogy with a cylindrical duct downstream of a conical swirler for optimal premixing. Over the last decade, further develop-
ment and testing of the burner has steadily improved its hy-
drogen capability. Rig  and engine testing over the last three 
years has cleared 75 vol% hydrogen on the SGT -600, SGT -700 
and on the SGT -800. The SGT -600 has operated up to 88 vol% 
of hydrogen in a commercial environment, and a variant  of 
the 3rd generation DLE burner, that is u sed in all three en-
gines, has been tested at the Siemens Energy Clean Energy 
Center in Berlin with up to 100% hydrogen fuel at engine -like 
conditions. This significant achievement was enabled by  
additive manufacturing which allowed for more efficient  
 

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  14 combustion system aerodynamics. Continued engine testing 
isplanned going forward with the target to reach 100% hy-
drogen capability in near term.  
The SGT -750 engine is equipped with the 4th generation DLE 
burner.  The 4th generation burner has a central premixed pi-
lot with radial main swirler, contrasting it from the HR3 
burner which uses a diagonal swirler. The 4th generation 
burner has been tested  for various fuel compositions includ-
ing hydrogen -methane mixtures and the SGT -750 has proven 
operation up to 40 vol% hydrogen fuel [15] . 
Siemens Energy has sold two SGT -600 for the Braskem refin-
ery in Brazil, with capability to operate on 60 vol% hydrogen 
in DLE combustion mode keeping NO x emissions controlled to 
25ppmv. This power plant started operation in 2021 under an Operation & Maintenance contract where Siemens Energy 
take s responsibility for delivery of power and heat to the ad-
jacent refinery with r eliability and availability guarantees.  
Since  then, the units have been operating in baseload opera-
tion with average hydrogen blends of around 60 vol% and a 
maximum of 88 vol%.  
Non -DLE technology  
Siemens Energy has gained extensive experience with high -
hydrogen fuels on SGT -500 and SGT -600 industrial gas tur-
bines burning refinery fuel gases with up to 90 vol% hydro-
gen content. For example, 10 SGT -500 units in the field have 
gathered more than 800,0 00 combined operating hours on 
high -hydrogen fuels using non- DLE systems since 1979.  
  
 
Figure 13: SGT -500 Non -DLE combustion system . 
 
Aeroderivative gas turbines  
DLE technology  
The Siemens Energy aero -derivative engines, like the SGT -
A35 (see Figure 14), use axially staged DLE burners with ra-
dial swirlers in the primary stage and secondary non- swirling 
premixing ducts axially downstream, which are stabilized by 
the hot gases from the primary stage. Axial staging is com-
monly used in multi -shaft engines to  ensure optimal opera-
bility for all powers and conditions and to minimize thermo -
acoustics as the heat release profile through the combustor can be varied for a given constant power. The SGT -A35 com-
bustion system has the capability to run with up to 15 vol % 
hydrogen today, and the A05 is capable of 30 %. 
 
 
Figure 14: SGT -A35 DLE combustion system . 
Non -DLE technology  
Non -DLE systems in the Siemens Energy aeroderivative gas 
turbine family are adapted from aerospace engine applica-
tions. These systems can operate on both gas and liquid 
fuels, with NO x controlled by using water injection to reduce 
flame temperature. The SGT -A35 uses the Phase II combus-
tion system and is capable of operating on 100% hydrogen. 
The SGT -A20 has significant experience operating on high-
hydrogen fuels (up to 78 vol%) in petrochemical applications. Rig testing of the SGT -A65 and SGT -A45 combustion system 
has been conducted to understand the emissions characteris-tics of hydrogen -methane mixtures and pure hydrogen with 
water dilution.  
 
 
Figure 15: SGT -A35 Non -DLE combustion system . 
 
 

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  15 Small industrial gas turbines  
DLE technology  
Siemens Energy small industrial gas turbines SGT -100, 200, 
300 and 400 use G30 burner technology, a proven radial 
swirler premixing design which has gone through significant 
fuel flexibility programs, driven by petrochemical customer 
demand. This combustor  technology can burn mixtures of hy-
drogen and methane up to 30 vol% on the SGT -100, -300 and 
-400, which is being further developed for increased hydro-
gen fractions through the Siemens Energy hydrogen 
roadmap. The SGT -400 has been selected as the technolog y 
proving platform for the new hydrogen DLE burner system, and in September 2023 has already demonstrated 100% DLE 
operation with hydrogen at the HYFLEXPOWER project in 
France  [16] . Details of this project are shown under an own 
chapter in this section. Latest by 2030, commercial availabil-
ity of 100% hydrogen operation in DLE mode for first small 
industrial gas turbines is targeted.  
 
Figure 16: SGT -400 DLE combustion system . 
Non -DLE technology  
The SGT -200 and SGT -400 with non -DLE combustion systems 
have more than one  million operating hours in coke oven gas 
applications, which are characterized by high hydrogen (50 -
65 vol%) content, and significant amounts of carbon dioxide 
and carbon monoxide. The SGT -200 has refinery gas experi-
ence with contents of hydrogen up to 85  vol% with more 
than 800,000 operating hours.   
 
Technology enablers and Siemens 
Energy roadmap toward 100%  
hydrogen gas turbines   
 
Siemens Energy is employing several key technology enablers 
to further develop the hydrogen capability of its gas turbines.  
 
High fidelity Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD)  
Advanced CFD tools allow Siemens Energy combustion engi-
neers to run analyses on fuel burners to identify the key design measures needed to increase a combustion system’s 
hydrogen fuel capabilities. Combustion CFD tools provide en-
gineers with a clearer picture of the flame structure, as 
demonstrated on the SGT -800 fuel injector study in Figure 
17. The tools are calibrated for Siemens Energy designs and 
verified through years of combustion development and verifi-
cation testing allowing reliable evaluation of d esign options 
in the early phases of a project. With increasing share of hy-
drogen, thermo- acoustics of the flame changes as explained 
in Section 2. To account for this effect, Siemens Energy is en-
gaged with universities to implement the latest advances 
from the research community into their tool suite  and to take 
those effects into account during early stages of the design process.  
 
 
Additive manufacturing  
Siemens Energy’s additive manufacturing capability enables 
the integration of innovative design features and allows tech-
nology validation time to be accelerated by up to 75%. Sie-
mens Energy has built up an additive manufacturing ( AM) 
business to establish prototype and serial manufacturing ca-pability. Over the recent years tremendous efforts have been 
made in the fields of materials and processes, industrializa-
tion, and design for function. Materials such as IN 625 and 
Hastelloy X hav e been fully characteri zed to enable designers 
to utilize the benefits of AM. Moreover, the productivity of 
the respective processes was significantly improved via in-
creased layer thicknesses and transfer to industrial multi -laser 
machines. Key , however, is the integration of AM in a bigger 
scale production landscape including de -powdering, removal 
of supports, heat treatment, and respective quality control. 
Today a global fleet of more than 50 laser -powder bed ma-
chines produces metal parts for S iemens Energy gas turbines 
in their production facilities located in Orlando, F lorida,  USA , 
Worcester, U nited Kingdom and Finspång , Sweden. Figure 1 8 
shows final AM built  premixed combustion swirlers for heavy -
duty large gas turbines.  
Figure  17: CFD flow field overview from a study of SGT -800 3rd genera-
tion burner with high -hydrogen fuels [17] .  
 

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  16  
 
This enables  a faster response to changing customer needs. 
As shown in Figure 1 9, additive manufacturing is supporting 
the development of combustion technology that can over-
come the challenges of hydrogen applications . It enabl es the 
creation of complex cooling features and fuel routing that 
would not previously have been possible with conventional 
manufacturing techniques. These features are vital when it 
comes to ensuring stable combustion of hydrogen.  
 
High pressure combustion testing  
Despite all the advances that were made in past years in the 
area of CFD, combustion today is still a complex field  that 
cannot be modelled with theoretical models alone . Testing the combustion systems at engine pressure and temperature 
conditions is therefore still an important part of the Siemens 
Energy design process. All new developments undergo rigor-
ous testing to ensure safe operation at the customer site. The Clean Energy Center in Berlin is Siemens Energy’s facility for 
high pressure (35 bar) combus tion tests, shown in Figure 20. 
The facility supports testing of components and systems for the entire Siemens Energy gas turbine portfolio – from large 
gas turbines down to small industrial designs –  and allows for 
a wide variety of fuels to be tested. In 2019, hydrogen testing capabi lity was added to ensure support of the increased de-
mand for hydrogen applications . In the next years, the hydro-
gen capability of the CEC near Berlin is to be expanded to al-
low for increased number and volume flows of testing.  With 
this in-house capability , Siemens Energy ensures new 
knowledge is shared across their  fleet and timely support is 
provided to customer projects for special fuels like hydrogen.  
 
 
 
 
Figure 20: Clean Energy Center facilities for high pressure combustion 
tests, Berlin, Germany. 
 
 
The HYFLEXPOWER Project – Technology for Deep  
Decarbonization with 100% Hydrogen Power -X-Power  
Siemens Energy committed to advancing technology through 
a building block strategy aimed at developing hydrogen -natu-
ral gas flexible combustion systems across its gas turbine 
product range. This approach involved creating a set of core 
technology elements that could be universally applied within 
the product portfolio.  
The innovative technology was developed and initially demonstrated in an existing SGT -400 based cogeneration fa-
cility in Saillat -sur-Vienne, France (Figure 2 2) within the EU -
funded HYFLEXPOWER project. In 2020, a Siemens Energy -led 
consortium including ENGIE, Centrax, Arttic, German Aero-
space Center (DLR) and four European universities, at the 
Smurfit Westrock paper recycling plant, launched the imple-
mentation of HYFLEXPOWER, the world’s first industrial 
power -to-X-to-power demonstrator with an advanced H
2 gas 
turbine. The integrated hydrogen project as shown in Figure 21 demonstrated that an existing industrial Combined Heat 
and Power (CHP) plant can be upgraded for production of green hydrogen from renewable energy in an electrolysis fa-
cility, hydrogen compression and storage and its further re -
electrification. For this, the existing SGT -400 industrial gas 
turbine was upgraded to allow for combustion of stored 
Figure  19: Fuel burner design progressions from welded ( top left) to 
SLM additive manufacturing ( bottom  right) for 3rd generation DLE 
burner . 
Figure 1 8: Additive manufactured premixed combustion swirlers for 
heavy -duty large gas turbines.  
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  17 green hydrogen into electricity and thermal energy. During 
two demonstration campaigns in 2022 and 2023, the facility 
demonstrated for the first time a flexible operation with nat-ural gas -hydrogen fuel mixtures from 100% natural gas to 
100% H
2 in DLE operation mode enabling CO 2-free power and 
heat generation with green hydrogen.  
By taking this approach, the overall development timeline and cost of the 100% H
2 DLE combustion technology for the 
GT portfolio was minimized. Additionally, the risk for the 
higher firing temperature gas turbines will be mitigated by 
first validating the technology elements in smaller, lower fir-
ing temperature gas turbines.  
 The HyCoFlex Project  
In 2024, the EU and UK -funded HyCoFlex  project was 
launched at the same industrial cogeneration site as the HYFLEXPOWER project, building on its foundational achieve-
ments. Led by Siemens Energy, the HyCoFlex consortium 
aims to advance the power -to-hydrogen -to-power plant for 
combined heat and power (CHP) applications, with a focus  
on enabling gas turbines to operate flexibly on up to 100% hydrogen. The project is set to demonstrate the technology 
through site testing in 2025 and 2026, validating the com-
mercialization potential of the SGT -400 DL E hydrogen gas  
turbine.  
HyCoFlex seeks to optimize the hydrogen technology to en-
hance efficiency, emissions control, and operational flexibil-
ity in industrial cogeneration plants. By refining existing in-
frastructure and developing tailored operational strategies, 
the initiative a ims to address the dynamic needs of these fa-
cilities. New design enhancements will push the turbine’s fir-ing temperature to its limits while ensuring compliance with 
NO
x emission targets, thereby establishing a robust founda-
tion for commercialization. Thro ugh these advancements, HyCoFlex aspires to improve the performance and reliability 
of hydrogen -fired gas turbines and contribute to the broader 
goal of decarbonizing the energy sector while promoting sus-
tainable industrial practices.  
 
 
Figure 22: Smurfit  Westrock  SGT-400 Cogeneration plant in  
Saillat -sur-Vienne, France. 
 
Siemens Energy Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center  
Siemen Energy ha s developed a demonstration plant at their  
gas turbine manufacturing facility in Finspång , Sweden, to 
show how hydrogen and gas turbines, renewable energy pro-
duction and energy storage work together in a future flexible 
and sustainable energy system. Excess energy from gas tur-bine tests and electricity from solar panels are used to pro-
duce hydrogen in an electrolyzer. The hydrogen is  stored and 
used later as a fuel  for gas turbine testing. In the local mi-
crogrid created, it will be possible to optimize the use of en-ergy through storage as hydrogen and/or in batteries. Hydro-
gen produced in the plant will also enable continued research 
and development to optimize the use of hydrogen in gas 
Figure 21: Schematic of EU funded HYFLEXPOWER Project.  
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  18 turbines and reach Siemens Energy‘s goal to run gas turbines 
on 100% hydrogen contributing to a full decarbonization of 
the power sector.   
The project was  developed in the framework of Era Net Smart 
Energy Systems with support from the European Union‘s 
Horizon 2020 research and innovation program and the Swe-
dish Energy Agency. [18]  
 
 
Figure  23: Siemens Energy’s Zero Emission Hydrogen Turbine Center . 
 
Hydrogen roadmap for Siemens Energy gas turbines  
The 100% hydrogen gas turbine program combines extensive 
technology development for industrial and utility power gen-eration applications. Since the 1960s, Siemens Energy has 
gained experience with high -hydrogen fuels on non -DLE  
combustion systems. Beginning in the early 2000s Siemens Energy has invested in the development of DLE hydrogen 
combustion technology. Siemens Energy is making signifi-
cant strides in the development of 100% hydrogen- fueled gas turbines with DLE technology, in order to have the first frames commercially available latest by 2030. To achieve  this 
target, they are continuously developing the necessary tech-
nologies and implementing these new designs into the prod-
uct portfolio.  
  
Summary  
Over the last few decades, hydrogen capability in the Siemens  
Energy gas turbine portfolio has been developed to meet cus-
tomer and project demands. These demands have differed 
significantly across the portfolio and the proven capabilities 
clearly reflect this. The higher capabilities, for example in the 
industrial ga s turbine portfolio, were driven by demand from 
the industrial and petrochemical sector. We now see demand 
rising in the energy sector for high -hydrogen capabilities due 
to the drive toward ener gy decarbonization. Siemens Energy 
is answering this demand with a development roadmap as 
shown in Figure 2 4. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 24: Siemens Energy 100% hydrogen gas turbine roadmap.  
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  19 Additional systems required for  
hydrogen co- firing  
 
Hydrogen operation capability in power plants has additional 
requirements on the systems and components upstream and 
downstream of the gas turbine . 
 
In case of supply  of a blended hydrogen/natural gas mixture, 
all components in the fuel gas system upstream of the gas turbine need to be designed for hydrogen compatibility.  
Depending on blend ing ratio, temperature and pressure, this 
could affect components in different  systems such as pipes, 
valves, filters/strainers, preheaters,  measuring devices and 
transmitters.  
 
Additional gas conditioning systems are required when there 
is a separate hydrogen supply to the plant. In addition to the 
requirements mentioned above in the fuel gas supply system, a hydrogen and natural gas mixing station with valves, gas composition and flow measur ement  would  be required  and 
also the gas supply pressure would need to be slightly in-
creased . Siemens Energy has designed an optimized mixing 
station for such applications.  
 
 
Power plant component considera-
tions for hydrogen co- firing  
 
Gas fuel supply system: 
Because  the fuel gas system is handling the hydrogen di-
rectly , the necessary hydrogen resistance needs to be con-
firmed for the implemented components and materials. Fur-
thermore, adapted requirements on pressure, flow and tem-
perature to the gas turbine need to be considered in the de-
sign of the gas fuel  supply system , possibly requiring in-
creased  pipe diameters to accommodate the increased fuel 
volume flow when burning hydrogen.  
 
Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG):  
Downstream of the gas turbine the influence of hydrogen co-
firing is smaller than upstream, but some mitigation may 
need to be taken. Compared to natural gas firing, the HRSG 
must handle exhaust gases with different compositions , vol-
ume flows and in some ca ses changes to the exhaust temper-
ature . In addition, provisions for ventilation may be required 
in cases of unburned hydrogen entering the HRSG , e.g., after 
a failed start or a flame -out event . In case of a supplementary firing system , additional aspects such as the flue gas charac-
teristics need to be investigated.  
 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) system : 
Due to the increased NO x emissions associated with  burning 
hydrogen, the provision of a Selective Catalytic Reduction 
(SCR) System may become larger or necessary depending on 
the applying local emission regulations. If a  SCR may  be re-
quired  at a later stage when increasing the hydrogen content 
over the  years , sufficient space in the HRSG needs to be pro-
vided for a later retrofit.  
 
Buildings and Venti lation : 
Due to the different density and flammability characteristics 
of hydrogen, the definition  of the hazardous areas in the 
power plant needs to be revisited. Special consideration must 
be taken on the active and passive venti lation  of the build-
ings to handle any leakage of hydrogen  and the installation 
of suitable  gas detectors to detect such  leakages.  
 
Electrical Equipment:  
Electrical systems in areas susceptible to hydrogen presence 
will require a gas group classification according to IEC Group 
IIC - in NFPA regions alternatively NEC 500 Class I Div 2 Group 
B (explosion proof protection).  
 Power plant performance:  
Due to the different physical properties of hydrogen  com-
pared to natural gas , the following effects on power plant 
performance will need further consideration/adaptation in 
detail: NO
x emission handling, introductory ratings, design 
back pressure drop, fuel gas  preheating, combustion stability 
and dew point in the cold end of the HRSG /stack . 
 
 
Hydrogen readiness for new gas  
turbine -based power plants  
 
In the next years, newly built gas power plants will mainly 
run on natural gas, due to the already significant GHG reduc-
tion when using natural gas compared with other dispatcha-
ble fuels (e.g. coal) and the unavailability of large amounts of 
hydrogen as  fuel. However, new power plants being built to-
day will very likely be required to be converted at a later 
stage to burn a blend of hydrogen up to 100% during the life-
time of the plant , hence requiring provisions for cost -efficient 
later retrofit for hydrogen  operation .  
 4 Hydrogen capabilities of power plant systems  
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  20 This demand s hydrogen -ready power plant  solutions with a 
prepared pathway up to 100% hydrogen capability . In this 
case the power plant  is designed to be converted to hydrogen 
operations at a later stage.  A new power plant can also be 
designed and build to operate with a defined share of hydro-
gen without any technical modification ("H 2 Capability") . In 
that way the power plant is already hydrogen capable, ac-
cording to the limits of the current capabilities of the respec-
tive gas turbine. However, today’s new power plants will typi-
cally start operating with natural gas for a number of years. It 
is the refore crucial to have the option of new natural gas 
fired power plants solutions that can easily be upgraded and 
converted to hydrogen operations as hydrogen becomes 
available to the operator. By doing so, natural gas fired power 
plants are future -proof a nd will be fit to meet the amount of 
hydrogen for which it has been made ready, with minimal conversion costs ("H
2 Readiness") . The efforts to upgrade 
these power plants may vary for each power plant, as they are built according to specific requirements agreed between 
the plant operators and the technology providers.  
 
Hydrogen -readiness power plant concept certification  
Siemens Energy is the first company worldwide to have re-ceived a third -party certification for its “H
2-Ready” power 
plant concept.  
 
Depending on the required roadmap of hydrogen co- firing re-
quirements over time, H ydrogen -readiness allows t he design  
of power plants that enable a later retrofit to hydrogen co -fir-
ing with minimal costs and disruptions, while keeping the ad-
ditional front -end investment limited.  The detailed configura-
tion of a hydrogen -ready plant will always be determined pro-
ject-specific in line with the expected hydrogen co -firing 
roadmap for the plant.  
 
 
Figure 2 5: Hydrogen ready power plan t concept certification  
 
The independent Certification Guideline for H 2-Readiness of 
Combined Cycle Power Plants, provided by international certi-
fication provider TÜV SÜD , covers the three phases in the life 
cycle  of the  plant:  
 1. Bidding Phase -  when the concept of the h ydrogen -
Readiness is established according to the client’s H 2-
roadmap (Concept Certificate - Generic).  
2. Project Phase – when the concept is implemented 
into the design and construction of a H 2-Ready 
power plant (Project Certificate – Project specific).  
3. Transition Phase – when the plant is converted into 
a H 2 fired plant, once h ydrogen is available (Transi-
tion Certificate – Project specific). 
 The “H
2-Ready”  concept certificate provides a roadmap de-
scribing how a new power plant can be converted over time 
to co -fire hydrogen or even burn pure hydrogen, limiting fu-
ture conversion cost and making the power plant future -
proof. The certificate was awarded through the analysis of an 
SCC-800 combined cycle power plant which was designed H 2-
ready according to the certification guideline. Except for the 
gas turbine  and associated package , the concept may also be 
used for other gas turbine plant configura tions. On a project 
specific case, the certification process can be further ex-
panded with “ H2-Ready” - certificates for the plant specific 
construction (Project Certificate) and retrofit phases (Transi-
tion Certificate).  
 Hydrogen -readiness categorization for n ew gas turbi ne 
power plants according to EU  Turbines  
Under the framework  of the EU Turbines Association  in which 
Siemens Energy is a member , key gas turbine manufacturers 
in the power plant industry will voluntarily indicate with each 
newly built power plant a specific category of hydrogen -read-
iness fulfilled by the power plant  [19] .  
 
 
Figure 2 6: Hydrogen readiness levels and retrofitting effort categoriza-
tion as defined by the EU Turbine Association  [18] .  
 
 

Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  21 At this moment first countries are in the process of imple-
menting a dedicated H 2 pipeline infrastructure with first pipe-
lines becoming operational in Germany and Netherlands in 
2025 and a first European hydrogen backbone in 2030. [9]  
As hydrogen will remain  a scarce resource over the next dec-
ade, the most likely scenario is that a limited number of hy-
drogen valleys and a backbone grid connecting these valleys 
and large -scale generation facilities will be available. These 
regions and hydrogen pipelines will b e extended in the fu-
ture. In the remaining gas grid, especially the distributio n 
grid, we may see a blending of hydrogen into the existing 
natural gas grid, but most indications point towards complete 
separate hydrogen and natural gas networks. In such a case, 
if a power plant requires a specific hydrogen blend, it will re-quire connection to both networks and a local mixing station. 
The maximum blending share in pipelines is expected  to re-
main to max. 5 -20% by volume -  if blending is  accepted at all.  
 
Accordingly, t he EU Turbines Association defines three levels 
of readiness according to the hydrogen content of the gas 
used combined with a categorization of required retrofitting 
effort as shown in Figure 2 6. Current market trands indicate 
that most power plant operators interested in a later switch 
to hydrogen plan for a 100% H
2 readiness . 
 
CertaLinkTM - Clean Energy Certification  
Beyond the scope of hydrogen and new power plants, Sie-
mens Energy is taking a holistic view of the entire energy 
production and consumption market and the value of certify-
ing cleanliness.  
Siemens Energy has established with German Energy Agency 
dena and TÜV Süd a partner ecosystem  for the verification 
and certification of renewable energies , products and goods 
made from them along the entire Power -to-X value chain 
(CertaLinkTM). This distributed ledger technology based certi-
fication system is tamper -proof, fully automated and covers 
all aspects of the energy and hydrogen value chain, from re-newable energy, electrolysis, Power -to-X, and H
2 re-electrifi-
cation. As such, it enables a secure syst em to prove the sus-
tainability of the whole energy value chain and its associated 
CO 2 footprint.  
 
 
  
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  22 The requirement to upgrade existing 
gas turbines to hydrogen operation  
 
Several reasons encourage  gas turbine operators to  consider  
hydrogen fuel retrofits:  
 
• Upcoming stricter regulation on emissions and use 
of fossil fuels due to the Paris agreement (COP21), 
other initiatives (e.g. European Green Deal , EU Tax-
onomy ), political instruments and country targets 
(more than  100 countries target or discuss targets 
on net zero emissions).  
• Increasing carbon pricing through CO 2 taxes or emis-
sions trading  
• Customer pressure, companies and owners´ com-
mitments to reduce carbon footprint as well as re-quirements from investors and financing institutions 
(e.g. European Investment Bank (EIB))  
• Future blending of hydrogen in existing natural gas networks and pipelines, forcing existing gas turbines 
installed in compressor/pumping stations and exist-
ing power plants to cope with a certain hydrogen 
content in the fuel  
• The possibility to store excess production of electric-ity from renewables as hydrogen ( Power -to-X) and to 
utilize it when demand is higher. Especially in re-gions with good renewable conditions, hydrogen re -
electrification will likely emerge as the most effi-
cient way providing decarbonized residual load  in a 
fully renewable based power system, where hydro-gen serves as large scale, seasonal and long -term 
storage of renewable energy  
• The possibility to utilize hydrogen rich off -gas from 
refinery and chemical processes  
 These reasons, combined with the long lifetime expectancy 
of gas turbines and combined cycle power plants of more 
than  30 years, means that every new gas turbine built today 
is likely to be still in commercial operation in the 2050s, 
when the energy system should be largely decarbonized. 
Hence, gas turbine -based power plants that recently began  
operation or are built today are very likely to require a future 
retrofit to operate  on low -carbon fuels such as hydrogen to 
avoid any stranded assets in the generat ion fleet.  
 What about the installed fleet of  
Siemens Energy gas turbines?  
 
The current hydrogen capability for existing gas turbines is 
detailed in their specific gas turbine manuals, and is usually 
rather low. The feasibility of retrofitting these units to accom-
modate higher hydrogen concentrations will depend on sev-
eral factors , including site constraints, the existing equip-
ment and combustion system, the timing of implementation, 
and other relevant considerations. 
 
If operation with higher concentrations of hydrogen is de-
sired, consultation with the Siemens Energy representative is 
required. Siemens Energy will provide clarification on the fea-
sibility of higher hydrogen content, including whether the ca-
pabilities out lined in Figure 8  are applicable to the specific 
gas turbine, which modifications would be required and any 
potential impacts on service overhaul times.  
 High -hydrogen fuels present challenges not only for the com-
bustion system of the gas turbine but also for the overall gas 
turbine package and plant.  
 
When assessing the upgrade options for a gas turbine or 
plant, it is essential to evaluate the current package design 
and identify any necessary modifications. This ensures that all components and systems can safely operate with higher 
hydrogen concentrati ons in the fuel.  
 
Upstream of the combustion system, the use of hydrogen 
fuels may necessitate modifications to component materials, pipe sizes, as well as sensors and safety systems. Down-
stream, it is essential to assess the exhaust path, including 
the Heat Recovery Steam G enerator (HRSG). Variations in ex-
haust gas properties can affect heat transfer and corrosion 
rates, potentially impacting the lifespan of components. We 
recommend conducting a plant -specific analysis of all rele-
vant factors to develop the most suitable solution.  
 
To implement a hydrogen upgrade for our customers, we fol-
low the process outlined in Figure 27. Typically, Siemens En-
ergy’s scope will focus on the gas turbine package; however, 
in some instances, the scope may extend to encompass the 
entire power plant. F or more information on the implications 
of hydrogen for a power plant, please refer to Chapter 4.  
The scope of an upgrade package is determined by the target 
hydrogen concentration in the fuel and the specific technical 5  Upgrading Siemens Energy gas turbines for 
higher hydrogen fuel content operation  
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  23 requirements, local regulatory rules as well as the site -spe-
cific configuration of the gas turbine and its associated sys-
tems.  
We are committed to continuously enhancing our upgrade 
packages to ensure that owners of Siemens Energy gas tur-
bines can effectively adapt their assets for higher concentra-
tions of hydrogen fuels.  
 
 
Can I upgrade my gas turbine power 
plant?  
 
High -hydrogen fuels not only pose challenges for the com-
bustion system of the gas turbine, but  also to the gas turbine 
package and plant as well. The package design must be eval-
uated to ensure all components and systems are capable of 
safely running with higher hydrogen contents in the fuel. Up-
stream of the combustion system, hydrogen fuels can require 
changes to component  materials, pipe sizes, as well as sen-
sors and safety systems. Downstream, the exhaust path in-cluding the HRSG must be evaluated. Varying  exhaust gas 
properties can impact heat transfer and corrosion rates, pos-
sibly impacting the life of components. Siemens Energy rec-
ommends  a plant specific analysis of  all factors and develop 
the most appropriate solution.   
 
The effort to upgrade a gas turbine package for higher hydro-
gen content depends highly on the age of the gas turbine and the status of the  installed package and plant auxiliaries . 
To implement a hydrogen upgrade for their  customers, Sie-
mens Energy  uses the process defined in Figure 27. 
 
There are several physical properties of pure hydrogen and 
natural gas -hydrogen mixtures that need to be considered. 
Hydrogen’s lower density will lead to higher volumetric flow 
rates, higher flow velocities and/or higher skid edge pres-
sures, requiring a review of gas fuel skid capacities. For ex-
ample, as the amount of hydrogen in the  fuel mixture in-
creases, the required fuel volume flow will increase up to 
three times when comparing natural gas to pure hydrogen at 
the same pressure.  
 Hydrogen is a smaller molecule than methane, which will re-
sult in higher leakage rates (if used in a natural gas environ-
ment), and  therefore appropriate plant modifications are re-
quired. Additionally, hydrogen’s wider flammability range 
and low ignition energy makes it more likely that fuel leaks 
could ignite. The connections in the gas system, package 
ventilation design, and gas det ection systems must be assessed for suitability for high -hydrogen fuel operation, 
both with respect to material suitability an d explosion risks. 
For example, a change to stainless steel material  might be 
needed to prevent embrittlement and enclosed electrical 
components may need to meet specific certification require-
ments (e .g.: International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 
gas groups IIC and IIB+H
2). For the flame detection in the 
package enclosure a combination of ultraviolet (UV) and in-
frared (IR) radiation detectors might be required.  
 Combustion control systems may require modification to 
adapt to the changes in fuel properties when increasing the 
hydrogen content in the fuel. Depending on the concentra-
tion and engine configuration, the use of additional thermo-
couples may be required wh ich would be monitored by the 
control system to avoid hardware damage by flashback.  
 
The scope of an upgrade package is related to the target 
amount of hydrogen in the fuel and the specific technical  
requirements for the application. For higher hydrogen  
contents, the development of an upgrade package may have to balance between the scope of the modification, the associ-
ated retrofit costs, the remaining lifetime  of the plant, the 
regulatory emission requirements , outage intervals  and  
resultant performance levels. In the end, the decision on 
what specific measures should be implemented on an  
existing unit always depends on the blending requirement,  
the site -specific configuration of the gas turbine  and its  
surrounding systems.  
  
Figure 2 7: Process for assessment, definition, and implementation of hydrogen upgrades.  
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  24  
Abbreviations 
 
ACE Advanced Combustion for E fficiency  
BMW K Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Klima  
(German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs  
and Climate)  
CCS Carbon Capture and Storage  
CFD Computational Fluid Dynamics  
CHP  Combined Heat and Power  
CO Carbon Monoxide  
CO 2 Carbon Dioxide  
DLE Dry Low Emissions  
DOE  Department of Energy  
EHB European Hydrogen Backbone (Initiative)  
EIB European Investment Bank  
EU European Union  
G30  Name of Combustion System  
GHG  Greenhou se Gases  
HR Hybrid Burner  
HRSG  Heat Recovery Steam Generator  
H2 Hydrogen  
IEA International Energy Agency  
IEC International Electrotechnical Commission  
IPCC  Inter governmental  Panel on Climate Change  
IR Infrared  
LOHC  Liquid Organic Hydrogen Carriers  
MW Megawatt  
Nm3 Normal Cubic Meter  
NO x Nitrogen Oxides  
N2 Nitrogen  
NEC National Electric Code  
NFPA  National Fire Protection Association  
O&M  Operation and Maintenance  
PCS Platform Combustion System  
PPMV  Parts Per Million Volume  
SAF Sustainable Aviation Fuel 
SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction  
SFI Swirler Fuel Injection  
SLM  Selective Laser Melting  
TWh  Terawatt -hour  
UK United Kingdom  
ULN  Ultra -Low NO x 
US United States  
UV Ultraviolet  
WLE  Wet Low Emissions  
XLPE  Cross -linked polyethylene 
 
  
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  25  
References  
 
[1] Assumptions: coal emissions 750 -1000 gCO 2/kWh; simple cycle gas tur-
bines emissions 490 -565 gCO 2/kWh for operation on 100% methane. As-
suming combined cycle gas turbine emissions range 305 -395 gCO 2/kWh. 
IPCC, “Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5°C,” October 2018, 
https://www.ipcc.ch/sr15/  
[2] International Energy Agency (IEA), "CO 2 Emissions in 2023" Report.  
https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/33e2badc- b839- 4c18 -84ce -
f6387b3c008f/CO2Emissionsin2023.pdf. Accessed December 5, 2024  
[3] International Energy Agency (IEA), Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Energy 
Data Explorer, data for 2022. https://www.iea.org/data -and-statistics/data -
tools/greenhouse -gas-emissions- from -energy -data- explorer. Accessed De-
cember 5, 2024  
[4] Decarbonization Pathways for GT -Whitepaper  
https://p3.aprimocdn.net/siemensenergy/51aba4eb -30bc -4582- b48a -
b1e9009c4c8f/H2_GF_GT -White -Paper_released -pdf_Original%20file.pdf  
[5] www.euturbines.eu/power -the-eu/gas -turbines -renewable -gas-ready/com-
mitments/  
[6] IEA Net Zero 2050 Report, May 2021, Update May 2023.  
https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/8ad619b9 -17aa -473d -8a2f -
4b90846f5c19/NetZeroRoadmap_AGlobalPathwaytoKeepthe1.5CGoal-
inReach -2023Update.pdf  
[7] Hydrogen Council: https://hydrogencouncil.com/en/hydrogen- insights-
2021/   
[8] Hydrogen infrastructure: The pillar of Energy transition by Siemens Energy, Nowega and Gascade.  
[9] https://ehb.eu/, accessed March 2025  
[10] Produced with Chemkin  using the GRI 3.0 Mechanism. Conditions: inlet 
temperature 450 ºC, inlet pressure 20 bar, Adiabatic flame temperature  
1600 ºC . 
[11] DOE Award DE -FC26 -05NT42644  
[12] BMWI grant number 0327715D  
[13] https://www.ssethermal.com/news- and-views/2024/12/sse -and-siemens-
energy -announce -hydrogen -power -acceleration -partnership/ , accessed 
March 2025  
[14] Hannemann, et. al, “Pushing Forward IGCC Technology at Siemens,” Gasifi-
cation Technologies Conference, San Francisco, California, 2003.  
[15] Lindman, O., et. al., “SGT -750 Fuel Flexibility: Engine and Rig Tests,” 
GT2017 -63412, Proceedings of the ASME Turbo Expo 2017: Turbomachin-
ery Technical Conference and Exposition GT2017, Charlotte, NC, USA, June 
2017.  
[16] HYFLEXPOWER has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 
2020 research and innovation programme  under Grant Agreement No. 
884229.  
[17] Moëll, Daniel, “Doctoral Dissertation: Modelling of methane and hydrogen 
enriched methane flames in industrial gas turbine burners,” Lund Univer-
sity, 2018.  
[18] www.siemens- energy.com/zehtc.  
[19] www.euturbines.eu/h2 -ready/
  
Unrestricted   © 2025  Siemens Energy  Page  26 
 
 
Authors  
 
Main Authors:  
Jenny Johansson, Johan Leirnes, Katie Walton, Ertan Yilmaz,  
Erik Zindel.  
 
Secondary Author s: 
Christian Reckzügel . 
 
Contributors:  
Peter Adamsson, Kathleen Bohan, Ghenadie Bulat, Anders 
Haeggmark, Thomas Johnke, Eva Verena Klapdor, Sebastian 
Piegert, Bernd Prade, Peter Seyller, Monika Sturm, Michael 
Welch, Greg Wendt , Benjamin Witzel . 
 
 
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Gas Services  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany  
 
For the U.S. published by Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Generation  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32 826, USA  
 
Article No. PGCM -B10003- 00-7600  
For more information, please visit our website: 
siemens -energy.com  
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always  specifically reflect those described, or which may un-
dergo modification in the  course of further development of the products. 
The requested performance  features are binding only when they are ex-
pressly agreed upon in the concluded  contract.  All product designations 
may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & 
Co. KG or other companies  whose use by third parties for their own pur-
poses could violate the rights of the owners.  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.    
   