Sustainability in its three dimensions (Environment, People & Society, Responsible Business Practices) is of the 
highest importance for Siemens Energy. Sustainable conduct forms the basis of our business decisions and 
dealings with our stakeholders.  
Along  with governments, NGOs, the investment community and many other companies worldwide, we are 
concerned about human rights violations including forced labor, human trafficking and child labor occurring 
anywhere in the world, as well as the role that armed c onflicts play in causing extreme violence across so -
called “Conflict -Affected and High -Risk Areas” (CAHRAs). This topic is dealt with in the “OECD Due Diligence 
Guidance for Responsible Chains of Minerals from Conflict -Affected and HighRisk Areas” (OECD Du e Diligence 
Guidance) and has also been addressed by the legislators in various regions, including the United States of 
America and the European Union.   
Our role in the Supply Chain  
In order to ensure sustainability in our supply chain we have established the “Code of Conduct for Siemens 
Energy Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries”. We contractually commit our suppliers to this Code of 
Conduct and, in turn, expect them to promote these standards to their own suppliers. To verify these 
commitments we have implemented various detection modules such as Sustainability Self Assessments  and 
External Sustainability Audits.  
Furthermore we have rolled out a uniform and enterprise -wide proc ess to determine the use, source and 
origin of the relevant minerals in our supply chain (“Supply Chain Due Diligence”), including “Responsible 
Minerals Assurance Process” (RMAP) as part of the “Responsible Minerals Initiative”. We work closely with 
our su ppliers to support us in carrying out these steps. Where necessary, we work with suppliers in order to 
remediate risks and perform additional due diligence so that we can continue to source responsibly, 
building on established management processes.   
Commi tment  
We are committed to working toward avoiding the use, within our supply chain, of minerals from conflict 
affected and high -risk areas which are affected by the risks defined in Annex 2 of the OECD Due Diligence 
Guidance.   
Unrestricted      © Siemens  Energy, 202 2      Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.     1/2  
siemens -energy.com/responsibleminerals  
  
Siemens En  
ergy  
  
Responsible Minerals  
  
Sourcing Policy  
  
Introduction  
  
We do not encourage implementing a de facto embargo on conflict -affected and high -risk areas in the 
sourcing of the respective minerals  and promo te OECD conformant sourcing  in these areas as e.g.  in the 
Democratic Repu blic of Cong o. This is in line with our requirement to comply with the principles of non -
discrimination with regard to  supplier selection and treatment and follows the call of many 
internationally active human rights organizations.  
Siemens Energy actively supports the “OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of 
Minerals from Conflict -Affected and High -Risk Areas” for the development of the respective Due Diligence 
processes.   
These processes expressly recognize a Risk -Based Due Diligence in the Mineral Supply Chain as well as 
industry -wide initiatives like the “Responsible Minerals Initiative” (RMI).   
 
November  2022  
 
 
 
 
 
Barbara Buttinger   
Head of Procurement   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unrestricted      © Siemens Energy, 202 2      Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.     2/2  
