   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
1/13 
 
International Terms and Conditions  for Service Business  
1. General  
1.1 The scope, quantity, quality, functionality and technical specifications of any goods, equipment, documentation, 
software, work or services , including Digital Services, to be provided by Siemens Energy (collectively referred to 
as "Services ") are exclusively defined as the case may be either in the order confirmation issued by Siemens 
Energy or the Contract signed by the Customer and Siemens Energy.  
 
1.2 “Digital Service ” or “ Digital Services ” shall mean any and all deliveries and services as further described in this 
Contract and the respective Addenda hereto. Digital Services may be comprised of hardware parts, software 
and/or Applications. “Application” shall mean the (i) software, (ii) web  pages, (iii) connectivity, (iv) infrastructure 
and (v) hardware being located outside of Customer ’s site, all of them as used by Siemens Energy in order to 
provide the Digital Services.  
 
1.3 The offer letter from Siemens Energy together with these terms and conditions and those other documents ex-
pressly identified in the offer letter as forming part of the contract shall together constitute the entire agreement 
between the parties (the " Contract "). Any terms and conditions of the Customer shall apply only where expressly 
accepted in writing by Siemens Energy.  
 
1.4 Works  which are not explicitly described in the Contract are not included in the scope of the Services. Unless 
explicitly agreed otherwise, operating materials, consumables, spare and wearing parts shall not be included in 
the remuneration for the Services.  
 
1.5 Siemens Energy is entitled to provide the Services via a secure remote access (“ Remote Services ”). Remote 
Service means Siemens Energy Remote Service, i.e. an online connection between Siemens Energy and the 
relevant Service  at the Customer’s site allowing for remote services e.g. installation of Updates, Bug Fix and 
Patches as well as monitoring and analysis.  
 
The Customer shall verify that the security concept for the remote access proposed by Siemens Energy (see 
Common Remote Service Platform cRSP – security concept in its current version) is compatible with the technical 
capability of the Customer and the Cus tomer’s safety, cyber security and other requirements. The Customer 
remains at all times responsible for the safety of humans, machines, and the serviced objects.  
 
The Customer shall grant Siemens Energy access to the serviced objects via remote access. If contractually 
agreed with the Customer, the Customer shall activate and accept each remote access of Siemens Energy.  
 
The Customer shall provide an internet connection, which meets the technical requirements for a remote connec-
tion. The costs for such internet connection shall be borne by the Customer.  
 
Siemens Energy is entitled to modify or amend the existing security concept, so long as the performance of 
Services via remote access is not compromised. Prior to implementing an amended security concept, Siemens 
Energy will inform the Customer of the amen ded security concept. In the event the implementation is contrary to 
reasonable interests of the Customer, the Customer shall give written notice to Siemens Energy within 4 weeks 
after receipt of the notice of the intended change in concept. In the event S iemens Energy and the Customer are 
unable to agree on the security concept, the Customer is entitled to terminate the Contract in respect of such 
Services that include Remote Services. In any event Siemens Energy may implement the amended security 
concept 8 weeks after notifying the Customer.  
 
2. Rights of Use  
2.1 Except as expressly otherwise agreed in this Contract all intellectual and industrial property rights in the Services, 
in all documents provided by Siemens Energy in connection with this Contract (the “ Documents ”) and in all 
software, hardware, know how (“ IPR”), and other things provided with or as part of the Services and the Docu-
ments shall be the exclusive property of and vest in Siemens Energy. The Customer shall not reverse engineer, 
decompile, or reproduce the Services or goods delivered in connection  with such Services or parts thereof and 
shall ensure that third parties will not reverse engineer, decompile or reproduce the Services or goods delivered  
in connection with such Services or parts thereof in each case to the extent mandatory law does not prohibit such 
limitation.  
 
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
2/13 
2.2 The Customer may use the Documents unmodified and to the extent necessary for operation and routine mainte-
nance of the serviced objects by the Customer’s own personnel, unless explicitly agreed otherwise in writing by 
Siemens Energy.  
 
2.3 If the Services include Siemens Energy software, such software is licensed under the license terms contained in 
the software documentation, the software itself or in the attached (Siemens Energy Software -) license terms (in 
each case the “ Applicable License Conditions ”), which shall prevail over this Clause 2. The software is issued 
in object code without source codes. The license hereunder only grants the non -exclusive right to use the software 
as described in the Applicable License Conditions or, if there are no applicable license terms, for the purpose of 
operation and routine maintenance of the Services.  
 
2.4 The Services may include third party software. Insofar as specific license terms of the third -party licensor  (e.g. 
EULA)  apply, Siemens Energy will provide such license terms together with the Services. The Customer shall 
comply with such third -party license terms.  These alone apply to the liability of the respective licensor towards 
the Customer.  
 
2.5 Insofar as the software contains Open Source Software (“ OSS ”), Siemens Energy will provide the applicable OSS 
license terms together with the Services. The OSS license terms shall prevail over this Contract. Details regarding 
any third -party software and OSS contained in the Services are available in the software documentation (e.g. 
README_OSS).  
 
2.6 Insofar as Open Source Software is included in the Services , such Open Source Software is listed in the Re-
adme_OSS  file of the Software. The Customer is entitled to use the Open Source Software in accordance with 
the respective applicable license conditions of the Open Source Software, which shall prevail over this Contract. 
The Open Source Software license conditions  shall have priority also in relation to the proprietary Siemens Energy 
components insofar as the Open Source Software license conditions grant the Customer certain rights of use on 
the basis of the connection of OSS components with proprietary Siemens Ene rgy components. Siemens Energy 
shall make available to the Customer, at the request of the Customer, the Open Source Software source code in 
return for payment of a fee to compensate for expenses insofar as the license conditions of the Open Source 
Softwar e require such release of the source code.  
 
2.7 The rights granted in Clause 2 shall be transferable to a third party only together with the transfer of ownership 
of all of the serviced objectives to that third party.  
 
2.8 Without prejudice to the Customer’s intellectual property rights and subject to compliance with applicable law, 
Siemens Energy and its Affiliates may for its own business purposes collect, use, modify, and copy any data 
received in connection with the Serv ices. Any legal obligations regarding personal data shall remain unaffected.  
 
3. Prices and Terms of Payment  
3.1 Unless agreed otherwise in writing, prices exclude insurance and any other additional charges (such as inspec-
tions by third parties). The price payable by the Customer for the Services under this Contract shall be referred 
to in this Contract as the “ Contract Price ”. 
 
3.2 Unless expressly stated otherwise, if Siemens Energy undertakes any erection, assembly, installation, commis-
sioning or testing of the  Services  or a part of the  Services  outside Siemens Energy’s own premises (“ Services  
on Site ”), the Customer shall bear all incidental costs, such as travel expenses, daily allowances, in addition to 
the Contract Price.  
 
3.3 The Contract Price is exclusive of any indirect taxes (such as property, license, sales, use, value added or similar 
tax) and/or any duties, customs or public charges related to the Contract. The Customer agrees to pay or to 
reimburse Siemens Energy for an y taxes, customs, duties or other public charges levied on Siemens Energy in 
relation to the Services. All payments shall be made to Siemens Energy’s bank account without deduction (e.g. 
deduction of withholding tax) within 30 days after issuance of the in voice. If the Customer is required to make a 
deduction by law, the sum payable shall be increased so that Siemens Energy receives a net amount equal to 
the amount it would have received without such deduction. The Customer shall provide to Siemens Energy t ax 
receipts from the relevant tax authorities in connection with the payments in due course.  
 
3.4 Without prejudice to any other rights it may have, Siemens Energy may charge interest at 9 percentage points 
above the current base lending rate of the European Central Bank on any overdue payments.  
 
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
3/13 
3.5 Each party must pay all sums that it owes to the other party under this Contract free and clear without any set -
off, counterclaim, deduction or withholding of any kind, save as agreed otherwise in writing or as may be required 
by law.  
 
4. Rights and Obligations of Siemens Energy  
4.1 Siemens Energy begins with the Services within a reasonable period of time and performs the Services during 
its normal service hours (Monday to Friday, 8.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. except for national and/or local holidays) or 
during the specifically agreed serv ice hours, unless otherwise agreed in writing or stated in the Contract.  
 
4.2 Siemens Energy reserves the right to execute the Services using a different, but technically equivalent method 
to that set out in the Contract, provided that any such modification does not materially change the agreed char-
acteristics/specifications of the Services to the detriment of the Customer.  
 
4.3 Unless otherwise stated in this contract, Siemens Energy shall not have any responsibility for Customer’s sched-
uling, planning, project -management, quality programs, health, safety, security or environmental management 
and for any resulting time extension or cost -overrun with the Services.  
 
Siemens Energy shall be responsible for obtaining any work permits required by its personnel. Siemens Energy 
shall only use suitably qualified and experienced personnel and shall have the right to replace any of its personnel 
at any time with equivalent personnel.  
 
4.4 Upon Siemens Energy's request, the Customer shall inform Siemens Energy ’s personnel in time of all their obli-
gations towards the local authorities (such as police registration, etc.) and shall assist such personnel in their 
dealings with the local authorities. Customer shall provide Siemens Energy all support reasonably require d in the 
procurement of entry, residence and working permits.  
 
Any impossibility or delay in obtaining the necessary entry , residence or working permits which is not solely 
attributable to Siemens Energy , shall not constitute a breach of Siemens Energy’s contractual obligations and 
Siemens Energy shall be entitled to an adjustment in deadlines for performance.  
 
4.5 To the extent the Services include supervision, Siemens Energy’s only obligation is to provide correct instructions 
and it shall not be liable for the performance of third parties or Customer’s personnel.  
 
5. Delay  and Liquidated damages  
5.1 Any agreed dates in respect of the Services or any part of them shall be extended by a reasonable period of time 
if and to the extent that Siemens Energy is delayed or impeded in the performance of its obligations by any third 
party or by the failure of th e Customer to perform its obligations. This includes without limitation the delivery of 
required documents (such as necessary permits and approvals), timely performance of any work to be undertaken 
by the Customer or any third party appointed by the Custom er, and compliance with the terms of payment.  
 
5.2 If Siemens Energy does not meet any binding dates solely due to the fault of Siemens Energy, the Customer shall 
be entitled to liquidated damages amounting to 0,5% of the price of the delayed part of the Services per complete 
week of delay, in which the Cu stomer suffered loss as a result of such delay. Liquidated damages payable in 
case of delay shall be limited to 5 % of the price of the delayed part of the Services.  
 
If Services are provided on basis of a flat rate fee, the value of the service fee applicable to 1 month shall be used 
for calculating such liquidated damages and the maximum amount of liquidated damages.  
 
5.3 Any other liability of Siemens Energy and any claims, rights, and remedies of the Customer in case of delay 
except as expressly stipulated in this Clause 5 and in Clause 16.2a)  below shall be excluded, to the extent per-
missible by law.  
 
5.4 If the Customer, the Customer’s contractors, or any other third party put in charge by the Customer causes a 
delay to the provision of the Services, the Customer shall reimburse Siemens Energy all additional costs and 
expenses incurred due to such delay.  
 
5.5 The parties acknowledge the worldwide outbreak of the coronavirus disease  (COVID -19), which is likely to affect 
the execution of the Contract. The parties agree that Siemens Energy shall be entitled to reasonable adjustments 
of the agreed dates for the performance of the Services as well as to reimbursement of costs to the extent the 
delay and the costs are caused directly or indirectly by the outbrea k of the coronavirus disease .  
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
4/13 
5.6 The parties acknowledge that there is an uncertain political and security situation in the world, in particular due 
to the invasion of Ukraine (“ Uncertain Situation ”), which effects are difficult to foresee at the time of Contract 
signing and which can directly and indirectly affect the execution of th e Contract, including, but not limited to, the 
availability of certain equipment, commodities, metals, and materials as well as the availability of transportation 
means and services and supply of gas. In the l ight of the above, the parties agree that Siemens Energy shall be 
entitled to reasonable adjustments of the delivery times and/or the Contract Price to the extent any delay and 
costs are caused directly or indirectly by the above -mentioned Uncertain Situation and any related cons equences.  
 
6. Force Majeure  
6.1 A “Force Majeure Event”  means any event which is beyond the reasonable control of a party or its subcontrac-
tors, which could not have been prevented by good industry practice and which results in a party, its Affiliates or 
any of its sub -contractors or sub -suppliers (the “ Affected Party ”) being unable to perform or being delayed in 
performing in whole or in part its obligations under this Contract. Force Majeure Events include, among others, 
acts of war, riot, civil commotion, terrorism, natural disaster, epidemic, strikes, lock -outs, attacks on Siemens 
Energy’s IT systems (such as virus attacks, hacker attacks, failure or unavailability of telecommunications net-
works, unavailability of power, attacks by malware, exploitation of Vulnerabilities and other attacks on contract -
releva nt IT systems and operations centres e.g. hacker attacks), non -issuance of licenses, permits, or approvals, 
or any other act or failure to act by any public authority, or embargos or any other trade sanctions.  
 
6.2 If a Force Majeure Event occurs, the Affected Party will be deemed not to be in breach of its obligations under 
the Contract for so long as and to the extent necessary to overcome the effects of the Force Majeure Event.  
 
6.3 The Affected Party shall notify the other party as soon as reasonably practicable of the Force Majeure Event and 
of its affected obligations.  
 
6.4 If one or more Force Majeure Events and their effect lasts for a period of 180 days in aggregate either party may 
terminate the Contract by giving to the other a written notice of termination with regard to the part of the Services 
not yet performed. With regard to the part of the Services not yet performed, Siemens Energy shall be entitled to 
reimbursement from the Customer of its unavoidable costs related to such termination.  
 
7. Obligations of the Customer  
7.1 The Customer shall apply for and obtain all necessary licenses, permits and approvals required for commission-
ing, acceptance and use of the Services.  
 
7.2 In order to receive the Digital Services, the Customer shall take all measures required to receive the Digital 
Services, including without limitation, the proper installation, operation and maintenance of on -Site equipment 
(i.e. control and communication s ystem, network components) and provision of data connectivity.  
 
7.3 The Customer shall do all that is required for Siemens Energy to commence the performance of the Services in 
time and to carry out the Services in an uninterrupted manner. In particular, the Customer shall at its cost:  
a) support Siemens Energy in problem analysis to the extent necessary, e.g. providing incident reports and error 
messages ; 
b) coordinate third parties commissioned by the Customer ; 
c) provide up to date documents, drawings of and information about the serviced objects before commencement 
of the Services and without specific request by Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy shall be entitled to use the 
Customer’s documents for the provision of t he Services and make them available to Siemens Energy’s sub-
contractors providing Services.  
d) provide current data back -up of the current software version, including the stored data and the system param-
eters on an appropriate data carrier as well as the provision of a copy of the respective data carrier. Execution 
of data retrieval if necessary ; 
e) obtain of any permits, approvals, consents or authorizations from any relevant authority, except to the extent 
that these can only be obtained by Siemens Energy ; 
f) bear costs related to the transportation of the serviced objects to Siemens Energy if the Services are con-
ducted at Siemens Energy’s premises.  
 
7.4 If and to the extent the Services will be performed at the Customer’s premises, the Customer shall at its cost 
additionally:  
a) provide unrestricted access to the serviced objects, timely performance of all preparatory work and establish-
ment of the required operating conditions and infrastructural requirements necessary for the performance of 
the Services (e.g. internet access, ele ctricity and telephone) ; 
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
5/13 
b) provide briefings and trainings, including provision of information regarding relevant hazards for humans and 
machines resulting from the provision of Services, as well as regarding the applicable safety regulations of 
Customer ; 
c) ensure and monitor that the serviced objects are in a safe condition so that there are no risks for humans or 
machines during the performance of the Services. The Customer shall ensure that the serviced objects are 
disconnected from the mains during the pe rformance of the Services. The switching authorization for the ser-
viced objects and the respective responsibility always remains with the Customer. The same applies to the 
implementation of other required operational and legal safety measures, as well as t o the provision of (special) 
protective clothing and devices as well as the provision of security and escort personnel to escort the service 
technicians in accordance with the requirements of work safety, and upon Siemens Energy's request, the 
provision of  a second person required for accident prevention ; 
d) provide suitably qualified personnel during the performance of the Services with the necessary experience 
and know -how to operate the serviced objects. Furthermore, the personnel must be able to make and imple-
ment any necessary decisions concerning the Ser vices. Unqualified personnel may be rejected by Siemens 
Energy and shall be replaced at the Customer’s cost ; 
e) provide technical resources and auxiliary equipment (e.g. ladders, scaffolding, lifting devices, special tools as 
well as on -site transportation) with the required operating personnel as well as the operating and production 
resources and materials and cons umables necessary for the performance of the Services ; 
f) provide power and water supplies together with the necessary connections up to the required location on site 
as well as heating and general lighting and, if necessary, air -conditioning and ventilation ; 
g) be responsible for adequate safety precautions on site against theft, damage, destruction and other adverse 
factors. Material lost or damaged shall be replaced or repaired at the Customer’s cost.  
 
7.5 If Services cannot be performed in the required manner or can only be performed upon delay on grounds for 
which Siemens Energy is not responsible, particularly because the Customer has not performed or timely per-
formed its general or special duties of coop eration or the Customer has culpably missed an agreed deadline, 
Siemens Energy may separately charge to the Customer the additional expenses incurred, including all waiting 
periods. Agreed -upon dates and deadlines shall be prolonged to a reasonable extent.  
 
7.6 The Customer is solely responsible for the conception, implementation, and maintenance of a holistic, state -of-
the-art security concept to protect its enterprise with all plants, systems, machines, and networks, for which the 
Services  are provided, against Cyberthreats. " Cyberthreat " means any circumstance or event with the potential 
to adversely impact the Customer’s plants, systems, machines, and networks (including the Services ) via unau-
thorized access, destruction, disclosure and/or modification of info rmation, denial of service attacks or compara-
ble scenarios. Such concept should inter alia include:  
a) Access to Customer's premises and to its plants, systems, machines and networks must be restricted to where 
absolutely necessary.  
b) Installation of Updates as soon as they are available in accordance with the installation instructions given by 
Siemens Energy and using the latest version. This might require Customer’s purchase of Upgrades of hard-
ware and software, and patch management services , but subject to a prior check of the compatibility and to 
the impact on the functionality of the whole plant or system. Use of versions that are no longer supported 
and/or failure to install the latest Updates may increase Customer’s exposure to Cy berthreats.  
“Update " means any software -version which primarily contains  
i) corrections of software defects („Bug Fix“),  
ii) corrections of vulnerabilities („Patches“) and/or  
iii) minor enhancements or improvements of the S ervices ,  
but does not contain significant new features.  
 "Upgrade " means any hardware/software which primarily contains major enhancements of the Services and 
new features.  
c) Complying with security advisories, implementing other related measures, published, among others, under 
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/company/about/cybersecurity/cert -services.html . 
d) Regular Vulnerability scanning and testing of the hardware and/or software of the Services , provided however, 
that (i) it is not performed while the components are in use, and (ii) the system configuration and security level 
of any parts of the components shall not be modified. If Vulnerabilities are identified by the Customer, the 
Customer sha ll notify Siemens Energy in writing within a reasonable time. Customer shall cooperate with 
Siemens Energy and  must not disclose the Vulnerability without the prior w ritten consent from Siemens En-
ergy.  
e) Implementation and maintaining a state -of-the-art password policy.  
f) Connecting the plants, systems, machines and networks, for which the Services are provided, to an enterprise 
network or the internet must only be done where absolutely necessary and only when appropriate security 
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
6/13 
measures (e.g. firewalls, network client authentication and/or network segmentation) are in place and the 
guidelines of the respective manufacturers are fulfilled.  
g) Minimizing the risk of a malware infection (e.g. through contents of USB -storage media and other connected 
removable storage devices) through malware scanners with approved compatibility by the manufacturer or 
other appropriate protective measures.  
h) Raising the awareness of the Customer's personnel towards dangers associated with Cyberthreats. This also 
includes regular trainings.  
 
„Vulnerability " means a weakness in Services  that could be exploited to permit unauthorized access, use, or 
modification to such Services  or computing environment.  
 
7.7 The Customer acknowledges th at Services on Site may generate hazardous waste as defined in the applicable 
laws. The Customer shall, at its expense, provide containers complying with all legal and regulatory requirements 
and shall handle, store and dispose of hazardous waste in accordance with the applicable laws.   
 
If Siemens Energy discovers hazardous materials (including asbestos), environmentally hazardous substances, 
geological or geothermal conditions, archaeological findings or any other local environmental conditions which 
have an adverse effect on the Service , the Customer shall be liable for any required remediation and shall also 
reimburse Siemens Energy for any reasonable additional costs and expenses.  
 
7.8 The Customer shall be responsible for the collection and disposal of the waste electrical and electronic equipment 
and industrial batteries at the end of their use phase at its own expense according to the law at the place of use.  
 
7.9 Siemens Energy shall comply with the Customer’s site rules and regulations when performing Services  on Site, 
provided that the Customer informs Siemens Energy, in writing, of all relevant site rules and regulations in force 
at the premises within a reasonable period of time prior to performance of the Services on Site.  
 
Siemens Energy shall not be obliged to provide the Services on Site in unhealthy or dangerous surroundings. All 
the necessary safety and precautionary measures shall be taken by the Customer, at no cost to Siemens Energy, 
before the Services on Site commence and shall be maintained by the Customer during Siemens Energy’s per-
formance of the Services on Site.  
 
7.10 The Customer shall inform Siemens Energy prior to the execution of any Services about potential health or safety 
risks which may originate from the Customer’s plant or equipment or may exist at Customer’s site, including , but 
not limited to hazardous materials which may exist in addition to those already specifically addressed in the 
Contract or which may be generated or released in connection with the Services (“ HS Risk ”). 
 
If a potential HS Risk arises, then, without limiting its other rights and remedies, Siemens Energy may suspend 
its Services  until the respective HS Risk has been permanently eliminated, or protective and preventive measures 
required by Siemens Energy have been taken by the Customer.  
 
The Customer shall reimburse Siemens Energy all additional costs incurred by any special protective and pre-
ventive measures as deemed necessary by Siemens Energy to deal with the existing HS Risk as well as costs 
resulting from the suspension. The contract ual schedules and time limits shall be adjusted accordingly.  
 
The Customer is responsible for the health and safety conditions on site, shall comply with any applicable laws 
as well as the laws, regulations and requirements of the European Union, and shall implement and conduct a risk 
assessment of potential hazards for the health and safety of the personnel on site, measures to control such risks 
(including suitable safety and working regulations for the work on site, emergency and evacuation procedures, 
and effective medical aid systems and resources), and potential ly necessary corrective measures. Prior to their 
performance of any activity on site, Customer shall provide Siemens Energy’s and its sub -suppliers’ personnel 
with the required safety and working regulations and related trainings.  
 
If Siemens Energy provides Customer with a safety and health document for the site, the Customer shall comply 
with the regulations contained therein, including provided updates.  
 
The Customer is responsible for ensuring that the site, including the ambient air and all parts of the plant Siemens 
Energy’s employees or subcontractors may encounter, are free of asbestos. The ambient air shall be deemed 
free of asbestos if the airborne asbestos fiber concentration does not exceed 1,000 fibers/m³ measured with SEM 
or 10,000 fibers/m³ measured with PCM. Upon request by Siemens Energy, the Customer shall certify these 
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
7/13 
conditions by a licensed and independent institute. Siemens Energy shall be entitled to perform corresponding 
measurements.  
 
In case aforementioned parts or ambient air is not free of asbestos or as long as the permanent absence of 
asbestos is not ensured, Siemens Energy may, without limiting its other rights and remedies, suspend any work 
in affected areas and reject any delive ry of asbestos -containing parts to its factory or workshop until it is certified 
by a licensed and independent institute that the site and the parts are free of asbestos. The costs of such certifi-
cation and/or other expenses related to on-site asbestos sha ll be borne by the Customer. Siemens Energy may 
nevertheless agree to perform certain limited scope of work under defined protection measures to the extent 
determined by Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy shall be entitled to compensation for any additional co st in-
curred and to an equitable adjustment to the schedule.  
 
All local transportation provided or arranged by the Customer shall be booked with companies which are certified 
in terms of quality and safety. Local cars used for crew transportation shall be safe, in a good state of mainte-
nance, equipped with safety bel ts, headrests, airbags, and where required, 4 -wheel drive. The drivers shall be 
experienced and have good company records. When required by the country, special guidance, protection, spe-
cial or spare tires and safety measures shall be arranged by the Custo mer. 
 
Basic Customer HS Risk work location requirements are: fenced -in work area , controlled entrance , first-aid staff 
and equipment , plant gas and fire alarm system , site emergency plan , full time HS Risk coordinator , sanitary 
provisions and canteen facilities , good house -keeping and waste control , permit -to-work system and regular site 
inspections , personal protection equipment , hoisting, fire -fighting, electrical and hydraulic equipment to be yearly 
inspected and in good working order.  
 
7.11 For any portion of the Services performed by Siemens Energy and/or its subcontractors on a time basis, the 
Customer shall confirm with Siemens Energy on a weekly basis the hours worked by Siemens Energy’s and/or 
its subcontractors’ personnel.  
 
8. Changes and Variations  
8.1 Either party may at any time request in writing changes, modifications or additions to the scope of the Services 
(hereinafter referred to as “ Variation ”). Upon receipt of such Variation request, Siemens Energy shall provide the 
Customer with a written quotation for the requested Variation, specifying the effects of the requested Variation on 
the Contract, including any necessary adjustment of the Contrac t Price, time schedules and agreed dates, scope 
of the Services and any other affected provisions of the Contract.  
 
If the Customer wishes to proceed with a requested Variation on the basis of Siemens Energy’s quotation, the 
Customer shall notify Siemens Energy thereof in writing within 14 days of receipt of the quotation. Siemens En-
ergy is not obliged to give effect to  the Variation until it has been agreed in writing by the parties.  
 
8.2 If applicable laws, rules and regulations, engineering standards and codes of practice, and decisions or guidance 
issued by courts or public authorities are amended or added to after the date of Contract signature, Siemens 
Energy shall be entitled to an ad justment of the Contract, including inter alia an adjustment of the Contract Price 
to reflect any additional costs to be incurred by Siemens Energy, the time schedules and scope of Services, as 
necessary in order to compensate for any adverse effects or ad ditional requirements deriving from such changes.  
 
If engineering standards and codes are listed in the technical specifications, Siemens Energy shall comply at the 
date of the Contract signature only with those. In the event that, at any time, mandatory local codes or standards 
in the country where the Services are executed stipulate more stringent or onerous requirements with regard to 
the Services , the Customer is obliged to inform Siemens Energy accordingly and the Customer shall (i) request 
a quotation from Siemens Energy specifying the effect of those more stringent requirements on the total Contract 
Price, on the agreed dates for performance of  the Services , the payment and any other provision under the 
Contract, and (ii) shall enter into a Variation in accordance with this Clause 8  based on such quotation.  
 
8.3 The names, functions, and the appearance, of the Digital Services and the Applications reflect the current devel-
opment status as of the date of Contract signature . Siemens Energy shall be entitled to issue at its discretion 
updates, upgrades and/ or changes to the Digital Services and/ or the Applications, e.g. in order to improve the 
Digital Services. Siemens Energy shall inform the Customer about any major update , upgrades and changes. If 
such updates, upgrades or changes are subject to additional charges , it will only be effective after additional 
agreement between the parties.  
 
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
8/13 
8.4 Without prejudice to the parties’ right to request Variations, Siemens Energy may at any time make changes to 
the Services  without the Customer’s prior approval, provided such changes by Siemens Energy do not adversely 
affect the agreed operability, functionality or technical characteristics of the Services . Siemens  Energy shall not 
be entitled to any additional payment, extension of time, or other adjustment of the Contract in respect of such 
changes.  
 
9. Acceptance and Risk of Accidental Damage  
9.1 Unless otherwise agreed in writing, an acceptance of the Services is not required. Where the parties have agreed 
on an acceptance in writing, the Customer shall declare acceptance within 1 week of completion of performance 
of the Services by Siemens Energy , or of the notice of completion, whichever is earlier. The Customer is not 
entitled to refuse acceptance due to non -significant defects. Acceptance shall be deemed to have occurred within 
1 week of completion of performance by Siemens Energy or if the ser viced objects have been put into operation.  
 
9.2 All costs and expenses of the Customer and any third parties (other than those of Siemens Energy’s own per-
sonnel or its subcontractors) incurred in connection with inspections, tests, approvals, acceptance procedures 
etc. shall be borne by the Customer.  
 
9.3 The Customer shall bear the risk of accidental damage to or loss of the Services and the serviced objects. Goods 
and materials included in the Services are delivered EXW (Incoterms 2020).  
 
10. Defects Liability  
10.1 Siemens Energy shall be liable for the proper performance of the Services in accordance with this Contract. If 
Siemens Energy delivers materials and goods in connection with the Services, Siemens Energy shall be liable to 
the Customer for any non -conformity with e xpress terms of this Contract resulting from circumstances existing at 
the time of the transfer of risk.  
 
10.2 The Customer shall immediately notify Siemens Energy in writing of any defective Services or defective materials 
and goods without undue delay. The Customer’s claims in respect of defects shall be excluded for any apparent 
defects if the Customer has faile d to do so.  
 
10.3 Upon such written notification, Siemens Energy shall be given a reasonable period of time and opportunity to re -
perform the Services and/or, at its option, repair or replace defective materials or goods. The Customer shall 
grant Siemens Energy working acce ss to the defective Services, material, or goods, and shall undertake any 
necessary disassembly and reassembly, and shall provide access to operation and maintenance data, all at no 
charge to Siemens Energy. Upon Siemens Energy’s request, the Customer shal l ensure that the title to the re-
placed parts/items shall pass to Siemens Energy.  
 
The Customer shall be responsible for the customs clearance in the country where the project of the Services 
performed is located and for the further transport from the places of delivery for all equipment necessary to rem-
edy the Defect. Upon request of th e Customer, Siemens Energy shall be obliged to reimburse the Customer for 
all such customs duties (if any) against documentary proof and invoice.  
 
10.4 The defects liability period for any part of the Services shall expire 12 months after provision of the defective 
Services or acceptance if agreed. For materials and goods, the defects liability period shall expire 12 months after 
the transfer or risk.  
 
For re -performed Services and replaced or repaired materials and goods, the defects liability period is 6 months 
from the date of re -performance, replacement, or repair, if the original defects liability period expires earlier. In 
any event, the defects li ability period shall end no later than 24 months from the beginning of the original defects 
liability period.  
 
10.5 In particular, the following shall not be defects:  
a) insignificant deviations from the agreed quality, of only minor impairments of usability ;  
b) normal wear and tear, non -conformity resulting from excessive strain;  
c) impairments due to improper or negligent handling by Customer, non-conformity resulting from faulty or neg-
ligent handling, non -compliance with instructions or recommendations in operation or maintenance manuals 
and other documents;  
d) unsuitable equipment provided by Customer ;  
e) installation, erection, modification, commissioning, or pre -commissioning, in each case not carried out by Sie-
mens Energy;  
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
9/13 
f) non-reproducible software errors, furthermore, software defects shall only be deemed to be a defect if the 
defect occurs in the software version that is most current at the time; or  
g) defects which do not significantly impair the use of the respective Services.  
 
10.6 The Customer is responsible for the conception, implementation , and maintenance of a holistic, state -of-the-art 
security concept according 7. 6 Siemens Energy does not warrant or guarantee that any Service s will be secure 
from Cyberthreats and does not contain any Vulnerabilities.  
 
10.7 If software is defective, Siemens Energy shall only be obliged to provide the Customer with an updated version 
of the software in which the defect has been remedied when Siemens Energy can be reasonably expected to 
provide such updated version or, if Sieme ns Energy is only licensee, such updated version is reasonably available 
from Siemens Energy’s licensor. If the software has been modified or individually developed by Siemens Energy, 
Siemens Energy shall in addition provide the Customer with a workaround or other interim error correcting solution 
until the provision of an updated version of the software in which the defect is remedied, if such workaround or 
interim solution is feasible at reasonable expense and if otherwise the Customer’s business operatio ns would be 
stopped or substantially impeded.  
 
10.8 If Siemens Energy carries out re -performs allegedly defective Services and it is ultimately not established that the 
Services were defective, the Customer shall pay Siemens Energy for such remedial work including error diagnosis 
and reperformance.  
 
10.9 Any other liability of Siemens Energy and any claims, rights and remedies of the Customer in case of defects of 
the Services shall be excluded except as expressly stipulated in this Clause 10 or in Clause 16.2b) , provided that 
a material breach shall only exist if Siemens Energy failed at least three times in remedying the defect. All war-
ranties, representations, conditions, and all other terms of any kind whatsoever implied by statute or common law 
are, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, excluded from this Contract.  
 
11. Intellectual Property Rights  
11.1 If a third party asserts legitimate claims against the Customer that the Services infringe an IPR owned by such 
third party, then subject to the following provisions of this Clause 11, Siemens Energy shall, at its option and 
expense, either:  
a) obtain a right to use the relevant IPR in connection with the Services;  
b) modify the works forming part of the Services so as not to infringe the relevant IPR; or  
c) replace the infringing part of the Services.  
 
If, in the opinion of Siemens Energy, none of the foregoing is reasonably possible, Siemens Energy may take 
back the relevant part of the Services and reimburse the price for such part.  
 
11.2 Siemens Energy’s obligations in Clause 11.1 are subject to the following conditions:  
a) the Customer has immediately notified Siemens Energy in writing of the third party’s claim and furnished 
Siemens Energy with a copy of each communication, notice or other action relating to the alleged infringement;  
b) the Customer does not acknowledge an infringement and provides Siemens Energy with the authority, infor-
mation and assistance reasonably required by Siemens Energy to defend or settle such claim; and  
c) Siemens Energy is given sole control of the defence (including the right to select counsel), and the sole right 
to settle such claim.  
 
If the Customer ceases to use the works forming part of the Services or any relevant portion thereof, it shall notify 
the third party in writing that this cessation of use is not an admission of IPR infringement.  
 
11.3 Any claims of the Customer shall be excluded if the Customer (including its agents, employees or contractors) is 
responsible for the IPR infringement. The Customer shall be deemed responsible for the claimed IPR infringement 
if, without limitation, it was caused by (i) specific demands of the Customer, (ii) use of the works forming part of 
the Services for a purpose or in a manner not foreseeable by Siemens Energy, (iii) a modification of the works 
forming part of the Services by the Customer, or (iv) use o f the works forming part of the Services in connection 
with other equipment.  
 
11.4 All rights, titles, interests and know -how in and to the Digital Services and the Applications and any parts and 
every improvement or further development thereof, other than those expressly granted herein, shall remain wholly 
vested in Siemens Energy or it s third party suppliers and/ or licensors.  
 
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
10/13 
11.5 This Clause 11 sets forth Siemens Energy’s entire liability for infringement of third party IPRs. Any other claims, 
rights, and remedies of the Customer shall be excluded.  
 
12. Liability  
12.1 Unless explicitly stipulated in this Contract, this Clause 12 shall exclusively govern the liability of Siemens Energy 
for damages, costs and expenditures, regardless of the legal theory upon which it is based, including, but not 
limited to liability in Contract, in tort (including negligence), misrepresentation, in demnity, under warranty or oth-
erwise.  
 
12.2 Siemens Energy shall be liable for bodily injuries and for intentional acts or omissions pursuant to the applicable 
law. 
 
12.3 Siemens Energy’s total liability, whether pursuant to any indemnity or in contract, tort (including negligence and 
breach of statutory duty) or otherwise arising by reason of or in connection with the Contract shall not exceed for 
loss of or damage to Cust omer’s property the lesser of (i) € 500,000 per event or (ii) the Contract Price.  
 
Siemens Energy’s total aggregate liability arising out of or in connection with this Contract shall not exceed € 
1,000,000 . 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the same shall apply to damage or loss caused to the Services  by defects or remedial 
work carried out by Siemens Energy after performance  to or acceptance of the Services by Customer, as the 
case may be.  
 
Siemens Energy shall in no event be liable, whether pursuant to any indemnity or in contract, tort (including 
negligence and statutory duty) or otherwise for loss of profit or revenue, loss of production, interruption of opera-
tions or loss of use, cost of capital, loss o f interest, loss of information and/or data, for claims arising from Cus-
tomer’s contracts with third parties, loss of hydrocarbons, loss of power, cost of purchased or replacement power, 
or for any indirect or consequential damage.  
 
12.4 Any limitations of liability set forth in this Contract shall also apply for the benefit of Siemens Energy’s Affiliates, 
subcontractors, employees, agents or any other person acting for Siemens Energy.  
 
12.5 If the Customer is not or shall not be the sole end user and ultimate owner of the Services or is procuring them 
for the benefit of any kind of joint venture, the Customer shall, in every contract in connection with the Services 
or parts thereof with the end user, ultimate owner or joint venture participant obtain written assurances from its 
contracting party of limitation and exclusions in favour of Siemens Energy, Siemens Energy’s directors as well as 
Siemens Energy’s employees,  agents, suppliers and subc ontractors (the “ Protected Entities ”) at least equivalent 
to those afforded to contractor, under the Contract. Customer shall indemnify and hold harmless Protected Enti-
ties against any liabilities incurred by Protected Entities in excess of those that would have been incurred had the 
Customer complied with its obligations arising out of the preceding clause . 
 
12.6 Any and all liability of Siemens Energy under this Contract shall cease with the expiry of the defects liability period 
of the Services.  
 
13. Assignment and Subcontracting  
13.1 The Customer may not assign this Contract or any part thereof without Siemens Energy’s prior written approval.  
 
13.2 Siemens Energy may transfer, assign, or novate the Contract or any part of it to an affiliated company ( “Affili-
ate”), being Siemens Energy itself and any corporation, company, or other legal entity that is affiliated to Siemens 
Energy pursuant to Sec . 189a Austrian Business Code (Unternehmensgesetzbuch – UGB ). 
 
13.3 Siemens Energy shall further be entitled to assign the whole Contract or a part of it to any third party, in the event 
of a sale or other transfer of the business or a part of the business of Siemens Energy to a third party.  
 
13.4 Siemens Energy may sub -contract the Services.  
 
14. Confidentiality and Data Protection  
14.1 The parties shall use any documents, know -how, data or other information provided by the other party (" Infor-
mation ") exclusively for the purpose of this Contract and keep the same confidential subject to the following. The 
parties may disclose Information to employees of the receiving party and to third parties who reasonably need to 
know such Information for the purp ose of the Contract provided such employees and third parties are bound by 
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
11/13 
equivalent confidentiality obligations. The party disclosing Information shall be held liable for a breach of such 
obligations by its employees or a third party.  
 
14.2 This confidentiality obligation shall not apply to Information which  
a) is or becomes part of the public domain other than by fault of the receiving party;  
b) is disclosed to the receiving party in good faith by a third party who is entitled to make such disclosure;  
c) is developed independently by the receiving party without reliance on Information;  
d) was known to the receiving party prior to its disclosure by the other party; or  
e) is required to be disclosed by law (subject to the receiving party’s obligation to notify the disclosing party in a 
timely manner of such requirement).  
 
14.3 The Customer shall only be entitled to take photographs or videos or to otherwise record the performance of the 
Services with Siemens Energy’s prior consent. In addition, only personnel of the Customer who operate s the plant 
shall be entitled to be present during the performance of the Services by Siemens Energy.  
 
14.4 This confidentiality obligation shall survive the expiration or termination of th e Contract  for 5 years . 
 
14.5 Siemens Energy and the Customer shall comply with the statutory provisions relating to protection of personal 
data. The Customer is obliged to create the prerequisites required by law (e.g. to obtain declaration of consents) 
to enable Siemens Energy to per form the Services without any breach of law. The Customer is advised to take 
appropriate measures – as far as possible – to prevent access of Siemens Energy to personal data or trade 
secrets of the Customer while providing the Services. In the event that i t cannot be prevented that Siemens 
Energy is granted access to personal data of the Customer, the Customer is obliged to inform Siemens Energy 
in due time before the Services are performed. The Customer and Siemens Energy shall then agree on the 
actions to  be taken.  
 
15. Suspension  
15.1 Siemens Energy may suspend performance of its obligations under the Contract if (i) the Customer is in delay 
with any payment or in providing any payment security required under this Contract for more than 30 days, or (ii) 
the Customer fails to perform tho se of its obligations necessary for Siemens Energy to perform the Services, or 
(iii) the Customer otherwise materially breaches the Contract.  
 
15.2 If Siemens Energy suspends the Contract in accordance with Clause 15.1 or in the event the Customer suspends 
the Contract without the express written agreement of Siemens Energy, the Customer shall become immediately 
liable to pay Siemens Energy for all parts of the Services already provided. The Customer shall further reimb urse 
Siemens Energy all reasonable additional costs and expenses incurred as a result of such suspension (e.g. pay-
ments to subcontractors, cost of waiting time, demobilization and remobilization, etc.). Any contractual dates shall 
be extended for a reasona ble period to overcome the effects of the suspension.  
 
16. Termination  
16.1 Either party may terminate this Contract with immediate effect by written notice, if the other party becomes bank-
rupt or insolvent, or an application for bankruptcy proceedings is not granted due to insufficient assets.  
 
16.2 Save as provided under Clause 6.4 and Clause 16.1, the Customer may terminate the Contract only in the cir-
cumstances set out below and in each case upon 14 days written notice to Siemens Energy:  
a) in the event of delay, if the maximum liquidated damages under Clause 5.2 are payable, a reasonable addi-
tional period of time for performance of the Services has been granted to Siemens Energy and has expired, 
and Siemens Energy within that time has not provided a commitment to pay further liquidated damages ex-
ceeding the befor e-mentioned maximum liquidated damages in respect of the continuing period of delay ; or 
b) in the event Siemens Energy has materially breached the Contract and has not remedied the breach within a 
reasonable period after receiving written notification of the breach from the Customer.  
 
16.3 Any termination by the Customer shall not affect those parts of the Services already delivered or performed in 
accordance with the Contract prior to the termination. In the event of termination in accordance with Clause 16.2, 
the Customer shall remain liable to pay Siemens Energy for all parts of the Services already delivered  or provided 
prior to termination. The Customer shall be entitled to compensation for the costs incurred in excess of the Con-
tract Price if it had the defective Services completed by a third party. For the avoidance of doubt, Clause 12 shall 
apply in case of termination. The right to rescind the Contract is excluded.  
 
16.4 Notwithstanding any other rights it may have under this Contract, Siemens Energy may terminate the Contract  
a) if the Customer comes under the direct or indirect control of any competitor of Siemens Energy; or  
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
12/13 
b) if the Customer materially breached the Contract and has not remedied the breach within a reasonable period 
after a notification by Siemens Energy or is in delay in making any payment or in providing any payment 
security required under this Contract for mo re than 60 days; or  
c) if the Contract has been suspended for more than 60 days.  
 
In the event of termination by Siemens Energy, Siemens Energy shall be entitled to recover from the Customer 
the Contract Price less any saved or avoided expenditure and any additional cost and expenses incurred by 
Siemens Energy due to such termination.  
 
17. Dispute Resolution and Applicable Law  
17.1 The Contract and any dispute or claim arising out of, or in connection with, it or its subject matter or formation 
(including non -contractual disputes or claims) shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the sub-
stantive laws of Switzerland excl uding the choice of law rules. The UN Convention on Contracts for the Interna-
tional Sale of Goods (CISG) shall not apply.  
 
17.2 All disputes or claims arising out of or in connection with this Contract, including disputes relating to its validity, 
breach, termination, or nullity, shall be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration (Vienna Rules) of the Vienna 
International Arbitral Centre (VIAC) of the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber by 1 o r 3 arbitrators appointed in 
accordance with the said Rules.  
 
17.3 If the value of the total matter in dispute, including the value of any counterclaims, is € 1 million or above, the 
expedited procedure provisions of the Rules shall not apply, and the arbitral tribunal shall consist of 3 arbitrators. 
If the tribunal consi sts of 3 arbitrators, each party shall nominate one arbitrator for confirmation by the Board. 
Both arbitrators shall agree on the third arbitrator, within 30 days after their appointment. Should the 2 arbitrators 
fail to reach agreement on the third arbitr ator within the thirty -day period, the Board shall select and appoint the 
third arbitrator.  
 
17.4 The language to be used in the procedure and the arbitration proceeding shall be English. Any order for the 
production or disclosure of documents shall be limited to the documents on which each party specifically relies in 
its submission(s).  
 
17.5 The seat of arbitration shall be Vienna, Austria.  
 
18. Export Regulations  
18.1 If the Customer transfers the works forming part of the Services (hardware and/ or software and/ or technology 
as well as corresponding documentation and/ or works and services, regardless of the mode of provision, and/ or 
including all kinds of technical support) provided by Siemens Energy to a third party worldwide, the Customer 
shall comply with all applicable national and international (re -) export control regulations. In any event the Cus-
tomer shall comply with the (re -) export control regulations of t he Republic of Austria, of the Federal Republic of 
Germany, of the European Union and of the United States of America.  
 
18.2 If required to conduct export control checks, the Customer, upon request by Siemens Energy, shall promptly 
provide Siemens Energy with all information pertaining to a particular end customer, destination and intended 
use of the works forming part of the Se rvices provided by Siemens Energy, as well as any export control re-
strictions existing.  
 
18.3 The Customer shall indemnify and hold harmless Siemens Energy from and against any claim, proceeding, ac-
tion, fine, loss, cost and damages arising out of or relating to any non -compliance with export control regulations 
by the Customer, and the Customer sh all compensate Siemens Energy for all losses and expenses resulting 
therefrom, unless such non -compliance was not caused by the fault of the Customer. This provision does not 
imply a change in the statutory burden of proof.  
 
19. Ban on re -export s to Russia  and Belarus  („No -Russia -Clause“)  
19.1 Siemens Energy hereby prohibits to the Customer, and the Customer agrees, not to re -export and/or forward, 
directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for use in Russia or Belarus any goods (hardware and/or software 
and/or technology and related docume ntation, regardless of the mode of provision) sold, supplied, transferred or 
exported by Siemens Energy to the Customer under this Contract . 
 
19.2 Siemens Energy shall be entitled to terminate this Contract  by written notice in the event of a breach by the 
Customer of the obligation pursuant to 19.1 of this Contract . Upon termination, the Customer shall pay to Siemens 
   
Terms and Conditions for Service Business  - Siemens Energy  Austria GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
13/13 
Energy all costs and damages incurred by Siemens Energy from such termination. In any case, the Customer 
shall pay Siemens Energy liquidated damages in the amount of 20 % of the Contract Price . 
 
19.3  Notwithstanding t he provision in  19.2, the Customer shall indemnify and hold harmless Siemens Energy in full 
from and against any claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public authorities or 
other third parties against Siemens Energy arising out of or relating to a breach by the Customer of the obligation 
under 19.1 of this  Contract  and the Customer shall compensate  Siemens Energy for all losses and expenses 
incurred resulting thereof.  
 
20. Miscellaneous  
20.1 Nothing in this Contract shall be deemed to create an employment relationship between Siemens Energy and the 
Customer or any of their personnel or subcontractors.  
 
20.2 The Customer is not entitled to issue instructions to Siemens Energy´s employees. Siemens Energy is free to 
select and allocate the personnel deployed for the performance of the Services. Siemens Energy alone shall pay 
for all compensation and social benefits of its employees.  
 
20.3 Siemens Energy shall not be obligated to fulfil this Contract if such fulfilment  is prevented by any impediments 
arising out of national or international foreign trade or customs requirements or any embargoes or other sanctions 
including, but not limited to, embargoes or other sanctions imposed by the United Nations, the EU or the U. S. 
which, upon sole discretion of Siemens Energy, may expose Siemens Energy or any of its Affiliates to sanctions, 
penalties or other actions of governmental authorities detrim ental to Siemens Energy or any of its Affiliates.  
 
20.4 If any provision of this Contract is prohibited or declared invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent juris-
diction, this shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision. The parties shall use their reason-
able efforts to substi tute such provision by a legal, valid or enforceable one with the same or a similar result.  
 
20.5 Any amendments, changes or additions to this Contract must be made in writing in the form of a written agreement 
signed by authorised representatives of both parties.  The written form is also complied with by (i) a  simple  elec-
tronic signature and (ii) compliance with an upright EDI contract.  
 
20.6 No delay or omission by either party in exercising any right, power or remedy provided by law or under this 
Contract shall affect, impair or operate as a waiver of such right, power or remedy.  
 
20.7 This Contract constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes and extinguishes all previous 
agreements, promises, assurances, warranties, representations and understandings between them, whether writ-
ten or oral, relating to its subject matter. Each party acknowledges that in entering into this Contract it does not 
rely on, and shall have no remedies in respect of, any statement, representation, assurance or warranty (whether 
made innocently or negligently) that is not set out in this Con tract. Each party agrees that it shall have no claim 
for innocent or negligent misrepresentation based on any statement in this Contract.  
 
20.8 This Contract is drawn up in the English language. If this Contract is translated into another language, the English 
language text shall in any event prevail.  
 