NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS    
 
   
© Siemens 2020 . All rights reserved  Page  1 of 2 
 
 
 
Subject: Chromium Trioxide - Confirm Basis of Continued Use  
 
Originator: Paul Scott & Andy Barnett   
NTS Number: SC032 
Job Title: Head of Global Supply Chain Managemen t, Head of 
Procurement AGT  Issue: 0 01 
Product Line: Aero Derivative Gas Turbine (AGT)  Date:  February 12th 2024  
Siemens Business Unit: Siemens Energy Canada Limited   
 
 
For the attention of  suppliers of parts and services in GB i.e. Wales, Scotland, and England , 
the European Union, European Economic Area, and Northern Ireland, in particular those 
dependent upon corrosion protection coatings and hard chrome plating  
 
Affected parts could include gas turbine parts, fasteners, pipes, connectors, linkages, gears, 
bearings and many other types of components.  
 
On 20th April 2023, the EU Courts of Justice (CJEU) annulled  certain “CTAC” REACH 
Authorisation decisions related to the use of Chromium Trioxide in coating systems and 
functional (hard) chrome plating, coming into effect on 20th April 2024.  
 
CTAC was the Chromium Trioxide Authorisation Consortium. Affected uses were authorised 
up to September 2024, pending extension. Downstream users should be aware of 
Authorisation details via Safety Data Sheets for affected chemical substances and mixtures. 
REACH  is the European Union regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and 
Restriction of Chemicals.  
 
In October 2023, the European Commission clarified  that use under these Applications for 
Authorisation can continue up until the point that a decision to Reject them has been made 
through the legally defined process.  
 
Other Applications for Authorisation may be used as the basis for continued use, where they 
cover the specific substance, use scenario and route of supply, once those Authorisations 
are approved.  
 
Users of chemicals subject to REACH Authorisation are reminded of duties to notify the 
European Chemicals Agency (ECHA)  of their use and to apply strict risk management 
measures.  
 
The above situation creates regulatory uncertainty which can affect continued supply of 
parts and repair/overhaul services resulting from use the of Chromium Trioxide in the 
European Union, European Economic Area, Northern Ireland  and GB i.e. Wales, Scotland, 
and England . Such uses may be in your facility or that of your sub -tier suppliers or 
processing facilities.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Page  2 of 2 
 
_  
 
Please respond to these questions as soon as possible, preferably by 29 February 2024, via 
MS FORMS  (https://forms.office.com/e/tQG2sFgGs2 ). 
 
1. Nam e 
 
2. Position  
 
3. Telephone number  
 
4. Email address  
 
5. Do you or your sub -tier suppliers use Chromium Trioxide in parts or services 
relevant to Siemens -Energy, where the chemical use is in the EU, EEA  or 
Northern Ireland? [Yes/No, if No complete, if Yes, continue below].  
 
6. Please confirm your understanding that use may continue under the CTAC 
authorization applications until a formal decision to reject . [Yes/No}.  
 
7. Identify which Applications for authorization you or you r sub-tier suppliers are 
currently operating under. [Free Text Field, at least 256 characters]  
 
8. Which alternative Applications for authorization are you aware of that can 
cover you or your sub -tier supplier uses if you are currently covered by the 
“CTAC”? [Free Text Field, at least 256 characters].  
 
9. Please confirm you are aware of the relevant conditions of use applicable to 
continued use under relevant Authorizations . [Yes/No].  
 
10. If relevant, what other plans do you have to maintain supply. [Free Text Field, 
at least 256 characters]  
 
11. Do you need  support or clarification in relation  to the above [Yes/No].  
 
If you have any questions regarding this notice, please raise them when answering 
Question 11.  
 
With kind regards,  
 
 
Paul Scott   
Head of Global Supply Chain Management  
 
 
Andy Barnett  
Head of Procurement AGT  