NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS    
 
   
© Siemens AG 2015. All rights reserved  Page  1 of 2 
 
 
 
Subject: Termination of ERS payment program  
 
Originator: Jay Jacobs   
NTS Number: SC006 
Job Title: Senior Manager, Supply Chain Operations   Issue: 00 1 
Product Line: Aero Derivative Gas Turbine (A DGT) Date: 15th December  2015  
Siemens Business Unit: Siemens Canada Limited   
 
For the attention of the Account Management Team  
 
Dear Sir or Madam  
 
Scope  
 
This NTS is applicable to all vendors  of Siemens Canada and ITCL that were participating in the ERS payment program . 
The ERS payment program was a self-generated  invoice program that did not require vendors to send a commercial 
invoice for their goods sold to us.  
 
Introduction  
 
On November 23rd we implemented a new logistics model marking another milestone in the transition of the Rolls 
Royce Energy business to Siemens.  This was / is a large undertaking and not without its challenges.  One of the major 
changes to that model was th e termination of the Manifest program  which is having an impact in other areas o f the 
business.  
 
Additional changes  
 
The ERS payment program was a Rolls Royce legacy payment program than will no longer b e supported by Siemens 
Canada and ITCL mov ing forward .  Effective  immediately  if you were participating in the ERS payment program you 
must now submit your invoices in accordance with the applicable method outlined below .  In fact it has come to our 
attention  that the ERS self-billing  program has not been active since November 30th 2015 .  As such we are requesting 
you to submit your  commercial invoice s for any shipments  since November  30th via the applicable method  below so 
there is no delay in payment.  New invoicing instructions are as follows;  
 
To Siemens Canada  
 
 
In an effort to process your invoices efficiently and wit hout delay, e ffective March  2, 201 5, you  will need to  self- 
register and submit invoices electronically within the Invoices On Line (IOL) portal at www.siemensap.com .  You   
may also view invoice status at your convenience within the IOL portal, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.   
 
More information about IOL may be found in the Quick start guide located on the IOL home page. Vendor IOL help 
videos are  also available on the IOL home page under the “Attention” area.   If technical support is needed for 
electronic invoicing, submit technical questions to:  northamerica -iolsupport.gss@siem ens.com
 
 
 
 
To ITCL  
 
Invoices must be emailed in PDF format  to the following emails address for processing  
ap.industrialturbine.cz@siemen s.com .  Also attached is a document with the applicable points of escalation for 
invoice related issues.  
 
  
 
 
 Page  2 of 2 
 
_ 
Contact_FSS_CZ_OC
TOBER_2015_FINAL_V1.pptx  
 
Please make use of your MRPC and Buyer contacts to help ensure your recent invoices are registered and sort out any 
invoicing issues you ma y be expe riencing.  As always feel free to contact myself if you are not happy with the progress 
being made.  
 
 
 
 
Payment Terms  
 
To be clear there is no change to the payment terms agreed between parties, only the mechanism  for payment.  We 
will endeavor  to ensure that this  process  is implement ed as quickly and as painles s as possible.   We apologize  we any 
inconvenience  and the late notice on these changes, they were not foreseen . 
 
 
Any issues please email  me at  jay.jacobs@siemens.com  
 
 
With kind regards,  
 
  
 
 
 
Signature   