NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS    
 
   
© Siemens AG 2015. All rights reserved  Page  1 of 1 
 
 
 
Subject: New cross dock facility in Birmingham UK  
 
Originator: Jay Jacobs   
NTS Number: SC008 
Job Title: Senior Manager, Supply Chain Operations   Issue: 001  
Product Line: Aero Derivative Gas Turbine (A DGT) Date: 8th March  2016  
Siemens Business Unit: Siemens Canada Limited   
 
For the attention of the Account Management Team  in the UK  
 
Dear Sir or Madam  
 
Scope  
 
This NTS is applicable to all vendors  of Siemens Canada who are shipping from the UK . 
 
 
Introduction  
 
In December of 2015 in support of the transition from Rolls Royce to Siemens ownership our logistic model was 
changed to introduce K&N as ou r preferred service provider for shipments from the UK to Canada.  Along with 
supporting infrastructure from UPS and TNT for local shipments into the UK cross -dock.  The initial setup was using 
the K&N Heathrow facility as the cross dock for outbound shipments to Canada.  After careful  consideration and 
review of the past three mont hs of operations it has been determined that the Siemens Canada Energy business 
would be better served by moving the K&N cross dock operations to their Birmingham facility.   
 
This change will take effect the week of March 21st 2016.  We will make the necessary changes to the TNT and UPS 
shipping accounts which are used to get the shipments to the K&N cross dock.  Please take note of this change and 
modify any labeling or documentation referencing the K&N cross dock location.  
 
New K&N Siemens Canada cross dock address;  
 
Kuehne + Nagel Limited  
Midpoint Park  
Minworth  
Birmingham  
West Midlands  B76 1BL  
 
Key contact for our account is:  
 
Mark  Seckham  
Operations Export Supervisor BHM  
Tel No. 00 44 (0) 121 352 2666  
e-mail: bhm.air -exports@kuehne -nagel.com  
 
 
As always feel free to contact myself at jay.jacobs@siemens.com  or your designated MRPC if you required any 
further details concerning this move . 
 
 
 
With kind regards,  
 
  
 
 
 
Signature   