 
 
Addendum to the Siemens Energy Ordering  108 508 10, Revision 8 Protection class: Restricted  
Terms and Conditions for the Duisburg location  Referenced document to 107 047 10  
Status 20 24-09-24 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG  Page 1 of 3 
1.   Order Confirmation  
The following applies in addition to Article 1 of the Siemens  Energy  
GT&Cs:  
The ORDER becomes valid when the PURCHASER receives the 
unconditional, written acceptance of the o rder from the 
CONTRACTOR. The acceptance can only be executed using the 
attached order confirmation.  
The order confirmation is executed by sending back the attached copy 
of the conformation, stamped and signed without reservations. The 
PURCHASER should expect the order confirmation within 10  (ten) 
business days.  
If the CONTRACTOR does not agree with an item in this letter/these 
documents, the objection must be substantiated in detail in the 
confirmation or a separately attached letter.  
 
2.   Performance period, contractual penalty in the event of an 
interruption in performance  
The following applies in addition to Article 3 of the Siemens Energy 
GT&Cs:  
Should the CONTRACTOR default on the delivery of the required 
documents, the PURCHASER is entitled to charge a contractual 
penalty in the amount of EUR 500.00 (five hundred euros) per 
document for each commenced calendar week of delay, but no more 
than a t otal of EUR 20,000 (twenty thousand euros).  
The document delivery dates (e.g. for supplier documentation and user 
manuals) are defined in the Purchase Order attachment “supplier 
documentation list” and the enclosed documents of the purchasing 
order and information. The latest delivery date for ECC -documents 
(export data sheet, supplier declaration for goods with preferred origin 
quality and certificate of origin) and also quality documents and 
certificates is with delivery of the hardware , in the case of documents 
within the scope of a provision, thr ee working days after delivery of the 
provision  
3.   Confidentiality  
The following applies in addition to Article 11 of the Siemens Energy 
GT&Cs:  
All plans, documents, designs, drawings, models, etc. that the 
CONTRACTOR receives in connection with the ORDER shall remain 
the sole property of the PURCHASER. They shall be returned to the 
PURCHASER at any time upon request, and, without request, no late r 
than when the order is complete. The assertion of rights of retention to 
these objects is excluded.  
All working results achieved by the CONTRACTOR are intended for 
the PURCHASER and are the absolute property of the PURCHASER. 
The CONTRACTOR shall maintain strict confidentiality, including 
toward third parties, regarding all procedures, operational facili ties, 
operational equipment etc. of which it becomes aware in conjunction 
with its work.  This obligation shall continue to apply for a period of 10 
(ten) years after the completion of the order. The CONTRACTOR shall 
suitably obligate the employees it tasks  to execute the order to maintain 
confidentiality in accordance with this provision.  
 
4.   Documentation  
All necessary documents are to be delivered to the following 
addresses, depending on their type and scope, or stored in the 
Document Upload Portal:  - Quality documents and certificates according to instruction 
106 663 10 in the Document Upload Portal 
https://dup.apps.prd.cf.siemens -energy.cloud/#/login  
 
Instructions for the use and application of the Document Upload Portal 
are available on the website www.siemens -energy.com/supplier -
information  
- Operating manuals and supplier documentation according to WN 
801 445 98: The relevant email address can be found in the 
supplier documentation list  
- Operating manuals (if there is no supplier documentation list) to: 
manuals.duisburg.oil -gas@siemens -energy.com  or alternativ in the 
Document Upload Portal  
- Request form for export data / (long -term) supplier declaration for 
goods with preferential origin status (according to the Implementing 
Regulation (EU) 2015/2447 on the Union Customs Code/Appendix 22 -
15): eccdokumente.duisburg.energy@siemens -energy.com  
or in case of service orders (department stated with SE GP I SV TCP 
OPS SCM DBG  or / and delivery address stated SE GP I SV TCP 
OPS SCM DBG repair and Service center” to the purchaser named in 
the purchase order.  
 
5.   Parts Identification  
Every loose part in the delivery that weighs more than 250  kg (two -
hundred fifty kilograms) must additionally be permanently marked with 
its weight.  
When sending requested material samples, these samples must be 
stamped with the parts identification of the associated main 
components.  
Parts and documents without identification will be returned at the 
PURCHASER’s cost or, if the PURCHASER chooses, destroyed and 
considered undelivered.  
Unless otherwise specified, with the delivery of components the 
CONTRACTOR is required to always deliver material and package lists 
showing all individual delivery items with detailed descriptions. It is 
mandatory for the lists to be in English or in both German and English. 
If loose/disassembled parts are included in the delivery that cannot be 
recognized as such from the order items, send the “106  000 10 Loose 
Parts List” document, completely filled out, to the PURCHASER by no 
later than 36 (thirty -six) b usiness days prior to the delivery.  
 
The labels generated after transmission of the lot parts list are applied 
by the CONTRACTOR  to the corresponding loose/disassembled parts 
before delivery.  
 
The document „10600010 Loose part list“ and the corresponding 
instructions for filling it in can be downloaded by the CONTRACTOR  
for use on the website www.siemens -energy.com/supplier -
information  
The responsible buyer specified in the order header must be notified 
that the order is ready to ship 5 (five) days prior to shipping. This 
ORDER shall be delivered as a complete order. We do not permit and 
will not accept partial deliveries; they will be r eturned to you at your cost 
and considered undelivered.  
Deliveries amounting to more than 5 (five) tons gross weight per 
delivery to the Duisburg location must be reported to the following 
email address: logistikdbg.wareneingang.energy@siemens -
energy.com  
 
 
 
 Addendum to the Siemens Energy Ordering Terms and  
Conditions for the Duisburg location  
Status: 20 25-03-19  
 
 
 
Addendum to the Siemens Energy Ordering  108 508 10, Revision 8 Protection class: Restricted  
Terms and Conditions for the Duisburg location  Referenced document to 107 047 10  
Status 2024-09-24 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG  Page 2 of 3 
6.   Routing order  / ILoP  
The CONTRACTOR  hereby confirms, in accordance with the General 
Terms and Conditions of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG and 
based on the Incoterms EXW, FCA or FOB, to order the transport of 
goods via the online portal ILoP (Inbound Logistics for Plants).  
 
When using it, the following information must be taken into account:  
For the binding collection of your shipping data and to be notified that 
your material is ready for pick -up, please use   „ILoP “ (Inbound Logistics 
for Plants) on the following website: 
https://ax4.com/ax4/?ID=3719631  
 
Notification via this tool is exclusively for shipments for which Siemens 
Energy  Duisburg is the freight payer.  
Completing the shipping data (send notification) generates an email to 
the specified contract freight forwarder, the PURCHASER and the 
CONTRACTOR. With this, the delivery notification is documented on 
the part of the CONTRACTOR.  
 
A quick start guide explaining the use of this tool can be found on the 
website www.siemens -energy.com/supplier -information  
 
The PURCHASER asks the CONTRACTOR  to place an order in ILoP 
as soon as possible. The CONTRACTOR  shall have the final delivery 
address confirmed by the PURCHASER in advance. In case of non -
compliance with this routing order, the transport costs will not be borne 
by the PURCHASER.  
 
7.   Packaging rules  
Packaging of the goods provided by you must take place under 
compliance with our document “106  821 10 Packaging Guidelines for 
External Suppliers”. Deviations from these rules entitle the 
PURCHASER to reject your goods or send them back at your cost.  
The packaging guide is available on the website www.siemens -
energy.com/supplier -information.  
 
 
8.   Free storage  
If a release for shipment is required, deliveries without a release for 
shipment from the PURCHASER are not permitted. The 
CONTRACTOR shall also offer the option of storing the material to be 
delivered for a period of up to 36 (thirty -six) business days, f ree of 
charge, for the PURCHASER.  
If the storage period is extended, the PURCHASER shall pay the 
CONTRACTOR a reasonable amount to be agreed upon for each 
additional calendar week of storage.  
 
9.  Environmentally -friendly products  
The PURCHASER insists on compliance with “EP Standard No. 1 
Requirements for designing environmentally -friendly products and 
systems”. This document is deposited on the website www.siemens -
energy.com/supplier -information . 
 
10.  Audits  
If necessary, the PURCHASER, in cooperation with the customer or a 
third party commissioned by the PURCHASER, can perform an audit 
of the CONTRACTOR’s quality management system and quality 
assurance activities at any time during normal working hours at the  
CONTRACTOR’s and its subcontractors’ premises with 10 (ten) days’ 
notice. The request must be justifiable, and the objective, type, scope, 
date and location of the audit must be specified. During the audit, the 
CONTRACTOR guarantees it will provide the in spection personnel all necessary support and access to qualified personnel, documentation 
and the production process. The inspection personnel is permitted to 
participate in any of the CONTRACTOR’s quality tests.  
The CONTRACTOR can refuse to grant access to company secrets. 
You shall bear all costs incurred in conjunction with the audit with the 
exception of the travel expenses for inspection personnel.  
The PURCHASER is permitted to share the results of the audit report 
and all audit records with Siemens Energy  and its affiliates.  
The CONTRACTOR shall ensure that the audit rights are also enforced 
by its subcontractors accordingly.  
 
11.   Expediting  
The CONTRACTOR shall ensure that the production of the ordered 
material and all related activities can be viewed and inspected by the 
PURCHASER, its agents and/or its customers or their agents at any 
time at the CONTRACTOR’s premises and the premises of it s 
subcontractors; these inspections can also take place unannounced. If 
such inspections result in costs, these costs shall be borne by the 
CONTRACTOR, with the exception of the personnel costs for the 
inspection personnel sent by the PURCHASER’s customer or their 
agents.  
The CONTRACTOR shall provide the inspection personnel any 
support necessary for them to perform their duties and shall provide 
the documents necessary to inspect the technical properties of the 
parts to be delivered by the CONTRACTOR. If during inspection visits 
the PURCHASER’s customers and/or their agents make requests to 
the CONTRA CTOR that do not comply with the ORDER, the 
CONTRACTOR must obtain approval from the PURCHASER prior to 
agreeing to meet these requests.  
 
12.   Acceptance  
If acceptance in accordance with Art. 4.1 of the Siemens  Energy  
GT&Cs is required, this acceptance or a potential waiver thereof does 
not release the CONTRACTOR from its general liability in accordance 
with Article 8 of the Siemens Energy  GT&Cs. The buyer specified in 
the order header must be notified that the goods are ready for 
acceptance at least 10 (ten) business days prior to acceptance 
(alternate deadlines from test plans take precedence) in writing via fax 
or email. The invitation m ust be sent using the “101  846 10 Supplier 
Inspection Notification Form” template provided by Siemens Energy . 
 
Costs for repeating the acceptance:  
If acceptance requested by the PURCHASER has to be repeated 
because the person accepting on behalf of the PURCHASER had to 
refuse to accept because of non -compliance with regulations, the 
CONTRACTOR shall bear the costs incurred by the PURCHASER for 
a new acceptance attempt. In addition, the CONTRACTOR shall 
assume all travel costs and expenses incurred by the PURCHASER, 
its customers and/or a third party commissioned by the PURCHASER, 
plus 0.5% (zero -point five percent) of the order value of the items 
sche duled for acceptance, but at least EUR 500 (five hundred euros).  
 
13.  Postponement, cancelation, transferability /  
Change in the scope of delivery and services  
13.1 With respect to standard products, the PURCHASER is entitled to 
postpone the delivery deadline for all or a portion of the ordered 
products or partially or fully cancel this AGREEMENT free of charge if 
it notifies the CONTRACTOR thereof at least 10 (ten) b usiness days 
prior to the agreed upon delivery deadline.  
With respect to products that have been adjusted to the needs of the 
PURCHASER, the PURCHASER is entitled to postpone the delivery 
deadline for all or a portion of the ordered products or partially or fully 
 
 
 
Addendum to the Siemens Energy Ordering  108 508 10, Revision 8 Protection class: Restricted  
Terms and Conditions for the Duisburg location  Referenced document to 107 047 10  
Status 2024-09-24 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG  Page 3 of 3 
cancel this AGREEMENT free of charge if it notifies the 
CONTRACTOR thereof at least 30 (thirty) business days prior to the 
agreed upon delivery deadline.  
The PURCHASER is entitled to request changes regarding the ordered 
products at any time. The CONTRACTOR shall inform the 
PURCHASER in writing or via email within 5 (five) business days after 
receiving the PURCHASER’s change notice as to whether and to what  
extent the PURCHASER’s change request might impact the delivery 
deadline and/or the agreed upon remuneration; in this case, the 
CONTRACTING PARTIES shall mutually agree on a reasonable 
postponement of the delivery deadline and reasonable remuneration 
for additional expenses. Additional expenses shall only be reimbursed 
if the PURCHASER has expressly agreed to the additional expenses 
in writing in advance. If the CONTRACTOR does not provide this 
information within 5 (five) business days, the change requeste d by the 
PURCHASER is considered accepted by the CONTRACTOR and will 
not impact the agreed upon delivery deadline and agreed upon prices.  
The PURCHASER can fully or partially transfer rights and obligations 
resulting from this ORDER to a company affiliated with the 
PURCHASER in accordance with  
§15 of the AktG (Stock Corporation Act) at any time and without the 
CONTRACTOR’s approval.   
 
13.2 If the CONTRACTOR derives price -related and/or scheduling -
related consequences due to the PURCHASER making changes to 
drawings or based on mutually agreed upon coordination meetings, the 
PURCHASER must be notified, without request, no later than 10 (ten) 
business days after the CONTRACTOR receives the modified 
drawings and/or after the coordination meeting in a separate letter in 
which the prices change and/or postponement is specified.  
If an exact price cannot be provided by this deadline, the PURCHASER 
shall receive a preliminary estimate which must be specified exactly 
within an additional 10 (ten) business days. The PURCHASER will not 
recognize additional costs and/or postponements an nounced later.  
Price and scheduling changes announced on time shall not necessarily 
mean that the PURCHASER has to recognize them. Price and/or 
scheduling changes become contractually effective by means of an 
addendum from the PURCHASER’s purchasing department.  
The CONTRACTOR shall notify the PURCHASER if missing 
information, supplies or drawing approvals from the PURCHASER puts 
the agreed upon date at risk with enough advance notice that the 
PURCHASER can still execute the delivery on time.  
If the CONTRACTOR does not inform the PURCHASER or does so too 
late, the CONTRACTOR shall deliver according to the contractual 
conditions at the price and on the date agreed upon in the original 
agreement. According to the agreement, the CONTRACTOR’s deliv ery 
is only considered fulfilled when the PURCHASER has also received 
the required documentation complete and in the proper form.  
Any changes to this ORDER must be made in writing. The written form 
requirement can only be waived in writing.  
If a provision in this ORDER is invalid or unenforceable, this shall not 
affect the remaining provisions.  
 
14.  Completeness  
The price includes all deliveries and services pertaining to proper use 
and fault -free operation, even if they are not expressly mentioned in the 
ORDER.  
If it is determined that parts required for the proper use or fault -free 
operation are still missing, you shall subsequently deliver and, if 
necessary, install them free of charge as quickly as possible for us.  
 
 15. Insurance  
CONTRACTOR shall, at its own expense, obtain and maintain in full 
force and effect throughout the term of the Order (including the 
warranty period) and any extensions thereof, all necessary insurance 
(including insurance required by law) appropriate to the  activities 
performed, including, but not limited to, the following insurance with 
reputable and financially sound insurers:  
 
• Workers' Compensation and Employers' Liability Insurance 
for Seller's personnel in accordance with the laws in effect at 
the place where the activities and/or work related to the 
Order are performed, including the laws of the countries of 
residence of Sell er's personnel, in an amount not less than 
the minimum required by such laws.  
 
• Liability Insurance, including handling and line damage, 
extended product liability, and environmental liability to the 
extent customary in the market (GdV), with the appropriate 
limits per occurrence (but not less than two million Euros) 
and shall also co ver loss of or damage to property in the 
care, custody or control of Seller and/or property being used 
or handled.  
• Transportation Insurance (All Risks Transportation 
Insurance) for all transportation and transportation -related 
storage risks of Seller, covering loss or damage to goods and 
supplies, including ordered items, during transportation to 
the final delivery loc ation at full replacement value.  
 
The CONTRACTOR shall furnish to the PURCHASER, upon request 
and without delay, certificates of insurance from the PURCHASER'S 
insurance companies.  
 
It is the responsibility of the CONTRACTOR to ensure that the 
CONTRACTOR's insurance policies comply with all applicable laws. All 
insurance shall be obtained and maintained with insurers lawfully 
licensed in the jurisdiction(s) where the activities and/or  work related to 
the Purchase Order will be performed.  
 
The insurance requirements contained herein do not limit or waive 
CONTRACTOR's liability, obligations or responsibilities under the 
Purchase Order and/or the Act. If a loss occurs for which 
CONTRACTOR is responsible or which cannot be covered by 
insurance due to the fault of CONTRACTOR and/or Subcontractor, 
CONTRACTOR shall be liable for the full amount of the loss, including 
the amount in excess of insurance limits and/or coverage, including the 
amount of any deductible and the amount not covered by insura nce  
 