Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2021 Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2021 The first Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG was virtually held on February 10, in Munich. Below you find relevant information for the Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2021. Shareholders' Meeting 2021 FAQs Data protection information Internet Service for Shareholders Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2021 The Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2021 of Siemens Energy AG was held on Wednesday, February 10, 2021, 10:00 a.m. (CET) , as a virtual Shareholders’ Meeting without the physical attendance of shareholders or their proxy representatives (except for the proxy representatives nominated by the Company). Confirmations on whether and how votes were counted pursuant to Section 129 (5) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) can be obtained within one month as of the date of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting after successfully logging into our Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . Alternatively anyone who has voted can address their request to our Shareholder Hotline (Tel.:  + 49 (0) 89 636 - 25 358, e-mail: hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de ). Documents Internet Service & invitation via email Live Webcast Documents Annual Shareholders Meeting 2021 Live webcast of the speeches (Recording) Chairman's letter to our shareholders Speech Joe Kaeser Speech Christian Bruch Presentation Joe Kaeser Presentation Christian Bruch Voting Results Notice of Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 2021 (incl. Agenda) Shareholder Counterproposals and Election Nominations Information on Shareholders’ Rights Annual Report 2020 including Consolidated Financial Statements, together with the Combined Management Report of Siemens Energy AG and the Siemens Energy Group, as of September 30, 2020 (IFRS) Annual Financial Statements of Siemens Energy AG as of September 30, 2020 (HGB) Articles of Association of Siemens Energy AG (as of October 29, 2020) Keydates regarding Annual Shareholders' Meeting Documents relating to Agenda Item 5 (To resolve on the election of members to the Supervisory Board) Overview Supervisory Board Siemens Energy AG Joe Kaeser Shareholder letter regarding audit committee Documents relating to Agenda Item 6 (To resolve on the approval of the system of compensation for the members of the Executive Board) Compensation system for the members of the Executive Board Internet Service for Shareholders of Siemens Energy AG ( Login ) You may use our Internet Service throughout the year for the update of: ✓ Your registration data for electronic delivery of invitations to future Shareholders‘ Meetings ✓ Your postal address. Electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings For future Shareholders‘ Meetings, you have the option of receiving invitations by electronic means, instead of by regular mail, to the e-mail address you provide for registration. By registering for electronic delivery via our Internet Service you will help contribute toward saving paper. You may revoke your consent to electronic delivery at any time. If you have already registered using an Access Password selected by yourself, you may also change your registration data and the postal address saved for you in the Company's share register via the Internet Service , throughout the year. In the “ FAQ ”-section you will find further information on our Internet Service. If you have any questions or problems with the Internet Service , please contact: Tel.: + 49 (0) 89 636 - 25 358 via e-mail: hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de The opening of the Annual Shareholders' Meeting and the speeches of Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and Christian Bruch, President and CEO, were broadcast live. The record is available here . FAQs AGM Attendance Notification Internet Service When and where will the 2021 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting be held? The Shareholders’ Meeting will be held on Wednesday, February 10, 2021 at 10:00 a.m. (CET), as a virtual Shareholders’ Meeting without physical attendance of shareholders or their proxy representatives (except for the proxy representatives nominated by the Company). The place of the Shareholders' Meeting within the meaning of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) is Werner-von-Siemens-Str. 1, 80333 Munich. Is it possible to hold a Shareholders' Meeting in Germany without physical attendance of shareholders or their representatives? The provisions of the Act on Measures in Corporate Law, Cooperatives Law, Associations Law, Trust Law, and Residential Sectional Ownership Law to Combat the Effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic of March 27, 2020 (COVID-19 Measures Act) continue to apply until December 31, 2021, pursuant to the Ordinance on Extending Measures in Corporate Law, Cooperatives Law, Associations Law and Trust Law to Combat the Effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic of October 20, 2020 until December 31, 2021. This allows the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2021 as a virtual Shareholders’ Meeting without physical attendance of the shareholders or their proxy representatives (except for the proxy representatives nominated by the Company). How can I follow the Shareholders’ Meeting? The entire Shareholders' Meeting on February 10, 2021 will be webcast live in sound and vision for shareholders of Siemens Energy AG and their proxy representatives at 10:00 a.m. (CET) via the Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . Shareholders can obtain online access by entering their Shareholder Control Number and their related Personal Identification Number (PIN) specified in the materials sent to them. Instead of their PIN, shareholders who have registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings with an Access Password selected by them must use this Access Password. The statements by the Chairman of the Meeting and the President and CEO on the opening of the Shareholders' Meeting can also be followed live on our website by other interested parties at www.siemens-energy.com/agm . Who is entitled to attend the Shareholders’ Meeting? Only those shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at the virtual Shareholders’ Meeting who are recorded as shareholders of the Company in the Company’s share register and who have submitted timely notification of attendance at the Shareholders’ Meeting. The notification of attendance must be received by the Company no later than midnight (CET) on Wednesday, February 03, 2021.  The right to attend and vote is based on the shareholding evidenced by entry in the Company’s share register as of the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting. Applications for registration in the Company’s share register received by the Company from February 4, 2021, through February 10, 2021, i.e. after the end of the closing date of the notification period, will be processed and considered only with effect after the Shareholders’ Meeting on February 10, 2021. The technical record date is therefore the end (CET) of February 3, 2021. When will Siemens  Energy send out the Notice of Annual Shareholders’ Meeting? Given normal delivery times, we expect that you will receive e-mail notices as well as the notice sent by regular mail during the second week of January 2021. What opportunity do I have to ask questions at the  Shareholders' Meeting? After timely notification of attendance, shareholders or their proxy representatives may direct questions to the Managing Board via the Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . Shareholders can obtain online access by entering their Shareholder Control Number and their related Personal Identification Number (PIN) specified in the materials sent to them. Instead of their PIN, shareholders who have registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings with an Access Password selected by them must use this Access Password. The shareholders' proxies use the shareholder's access data provided to them by the shareholder. Such questions must be received by the Company via the Company's Internet Service by no later than February 8, 2021, 10:00 a.m. (CET). It is not possible to ask questions after this time and in particular not during the virtual Shareholders’ Meeting. What options can I use to notify attendance and exercise my voting rights at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting? Upon registration, you can choose whether you wish to exercise your vote by absentee voting, authorize the proxy representatives nominated by the Company or other proxy representatives – such as intermediaries (e.g. credit institutions), shareholders’ associations, proxy advisors as well as persons who tender the service commercially to shareholders of exercising their voting right at the shareholders’ meeting. Shareholders or their proxies may exercise their voting rights exclusively by absentee voting or by authorizing the proxy representatives nominated by the Company as specified in the Notice of Shareholders' Meeting. How do I notify attendance at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting? To vote by absentee voting or authorize proxies and give voting instructions and provide proof of authority therefor, please use the Attendance Notification Form sent to you together with the postage-paid return envelope or use our Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . What address do I use for submitting my Attendance Notification Form or my voting instruction and absentee voting form, if I have lost the postage-paid return envelope? The address is: Hauptversammlung Siemens Energy AG c/o ADEUS Aktienregister-Service-GmbH 20621 Hamburg Germany Telefax: +49 (0) 89 / 2070-37951 E-mail: hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de When is the notification deadline? The notification of attendance must be received by the Company no later than midnight (CET) on Wednesday, February 3, 2021. Can I order an admission ticket for the Shareholders' Meeting? No. The Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG will be held as a virtual Shareholders’ Meeting without physical attendance of shareholders or their proxy representatives (except for the proxy representatives nominated by the Company). How do I vote by absentee voting online via the Internet Service? Click on Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . After entering your Shareholder Control Number and Personal Identification Number (PIN) or the Access Password selected by yourself, please click on "Absentee voting online." On the next page you can cast your votes on the agenda items and on any counterproposals and election nominations that may have been made available. How do I appoint employees of Siemens Energy as proxies via the Internet Service? Click on Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . After entering your Shareholder Control Number and Personal Identification Number (PIN) or the Access Password selected by yourself, please click on "Appoint Siemens Energy employees." On the next page, after the proxy authorization, you can submit voting instructions on the agenda items and on any counterproposals and election nominations that may have been made available. How do I appoint a bank or a shareholders' association as proxies via the Internet Service? You can appoint banks and shareholders' associations participating in the Internet Service via the Internet Service. To do this, go to www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . After entering your Shareholder Control Number and Personal Identification Number (PIN) or the Access Password selected by yourself, please click on "Appoint shareholders' association or bank." In the next step please select the required bank or shareholders' association from the drop-down menu. On the next page, after the appointment of the selected bank or shareholders' association, you can submit voting instructions on the agenda items and on any counterproposals and election nominations that may have been made available. If the bank or the shareholders' association has posted a voting suggestion, you will also find information about this suggestion on that page. If you wish to authorize a bank or shareholders' association that does not participate in the Internet Service, we will be pleased to send you a proxy authorization form upon request. To do that, please use the contact information of the shareholder hotline. Proxy representatives (except for the proxy representatives nominated by the Company) may not physically participate at the Shareholders’ Meeting. They may only exercise the voting rights of the shareholders they represent by way of absentee voting or by granting (sub-)authorization to the proxy representatives nominated by the Company. How do I change my absentee voting or voting instructions or revoke my proxy authorization and corresponding voting instructions via the Internet Service? After timely notification of your attendance, changes to your absentee voting, proxy authorization and voting instructions, including a change between absentee voting and proxy authorization (or vice versa), are still possible as follows: They may be sent by letter, e-mail or fax to the below-mentioned address, where they must be received by no later than the beginning of voting on the day of the Shareholders' Meeting for them to be considered. Hauptversammlung Siemens Energy AG c/o ADEUS Aktienregister-Service-GmbH 20621 Hamburg Germany Telefax: +49 (0) 89 / 2070-37951 E-mail: hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de In addition, you can use our Internet Service www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service for such changes until the beginning of voting on the day of the Shareholders' Meeting. Special conditions apply to the use of our Internet Service for notification of attendance from intermediaries (e.g. credit institutions), shareholders’ associations, proxy advisors as well as persons who tender the service commercially to shareholders of exercising their voting right at the shareholders’ meeting. Detailed information can be found on the above-mentioned website. How do I notify Siemens  Energy AG of my change of address to update my record in the share register? For address changes, you may use the section entitled "Change of address" on the reverse side of the Attendance Notification Form or update your address online by using our Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . To log into our Internet Service, you will need your Shareholder Control Number and Personal Identification Number (PIN) or the Access Password selected by yourself. Please also pass on your updated address to your depositary bank(s). Otherwise the technical data exchange with the depositary bank(s) may result in your new address being replaced by the outdated address held by the latter. Name changes will only be made through your depositary bank. Which browser should I use to access the Internet Service? The Internet Service can run under the most current versions of the following browsers: Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Firefox or Safari. JavaScript and cookies should be enabled. An Acrobat Reader DC version should also be installed to ensure that you can correctly view the documents provided via the Internet. How can I use the Internet Service? Please log in via www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service to use the Internet Service. You must then identify yourself by your Shareholder Control Number and your Personal Identification Number (PIN) or the Access Password selected by yourself. The materials sent to you contain your Shareholder Control Number and your related Personal Identification Number (PIN). Instead of their PIN, shareholders who have registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings with an Access Password selected by them must use this Access Password. The shareholders' proxies use the shareholder's access data provided to them by the shareholder. How can I obtain new login data for the Internet Service if I am not already registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings with an Access Password selected by myself? If you have forgotten your login data, please contact the shareholder hotline (available Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET) at + 49 (0) 89 636 - 25 358   or send an e-mail, stating your Shareholder Control Number, to hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de . How do I register for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings with an Access Password selected by myself? We require your consent in order to deliver invitations to Shareholders' Meetings of Siemens Energy AG to you in electronic format (by e-mail). If this is not yet available to us, you can provide this consent via our Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service by registering for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings using an Access Password selected by yourself. In future, please use the Access Password you selected yourself to access our Internet Service. If you successfully complete your registration no later than about seven weeks prior to a Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG, the invitation to that Shareholders’ Meeting will be delivered to your registered e-mail address. Registrations that are not completed by this deadline will not take effect until the subsequent Shareholders' Meeting. If the invitation to the Shareholders' Meeting is not delivered to you electronically in good time – despite your having registered for this service – please contact the shareholder hotline (available Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET) at + 49 (0) 89 636 - 25 358. How can I use the Internet Service if I am registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings with an Access Password selected by myself, but I have forgotten this Access Password? If you have registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings with an Access Password selected by yourself and have forgotten it, please use the function "Forgot your Access Password?" in our Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service to request a temporarily valid Access Password. After completing the necessary steps, you are sent a temporarily valid Access Password to the e-mail address you provided upon registration. After receiving the e-mail, please use the Internet Service again and enter your Shareholder Control Number and the temporarily valid Access Password provided in our e-mail. You can then select a new Access Password of your own. What should I do if I am registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings with an Access Password selected by myself, but I have forgotten this Access Password and my e-mail address has changed? In this case we ask you to contact our shareholder hotline (available Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET) + 49 (0) 89 636 - 25 358  or send an e-mail, stating your Shareholder Control Number, to hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de . We will then send you a new Personal Identification Number by regular mail. After receiving your new Personal Identification Number, please use the Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service using your new login data. You can then select a new Access Password of your own and store your current e-mail address. How can I retrieve my forgotten Shareholder Control Number if I am registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings with an Access Password selected by myself? Please go to the function "Forgot your Shareholder Control Number?" in the Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . In the next dialog step, please identify yourself with the e-mail address you provided when registering. An e-mail containing your Shareholder Control Number is then sent to that e-mail address. How do I change the Access Password selected by myself? Please use the Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . Entering your login data will take you to the button "My shareholder data" where you can, among other things, also update your Access Password. How do I change my e-mail address if I am registered for electronic delivery with an Access Password selected by myself? Please use the Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . Entering your login data will take you to the button "My shareholder data" where you may update your e-mail address. If you do not change your e-mail address until after technical preparations for the dispatch of invitations to the upcoming Shareholders’ Meeting have already commenced, we can take your changes into consideration only for the subsequent Shareholders’ Meeting. What happens if invitations to Shareholders' Meetings cannot be delivered to the e-mail address specified? If we send you electronic messages in preparation for the Shareholders' Meeting and receive an error message indicating that our message could not be delivered, we will resend you the invitation by regular mail. How do I revoke my consent to electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings? Your consent to electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings is not limited and is thus valid until further notice. You may revoke your consent at any time. To do so, please contact one of the following addresses, providing your name, Shareholder Control Number and your address: by e-mail to hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de or by regular mail to Siemens Energy AG, c/o ADEUS Aktienregister-Service-GmbH, 20621 Hamburg, Germany. If you have already registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings using an Access Password selected by yourself, you can also revoke your consent to electronic delivery via the Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . If you revoke your consent to electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings, you will receive the invitations to Shareholders' Meetings by regular mail again. You may revoke your consent at any time. However, if the revocation does not occur until after the technical preparations for the dispatch of invitations to the upcoming Shareholders' Meeting have already begun, it will not apply until the subsequent Shareholders' Meeting. In that case, however, we will endeavor to send you the invitation to the current Shareholders’ Meeting by regular mail to the postal address listed in the share register as well. You can change the postal address listed in the share register via the Internet Service. What do I do if my access to the Internet Service has been blocked? If you have already registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings using an Access Password selected by yourself and are blocked from accessing the Internet Service because you have entered incorrect login data on several occasions, you can get your account activated again by requesting a temporarily valid Access Password via the "Forgot your Access Password?" function in our Internet Service at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . To do this, please exit this service and restart it at www.siemens-energy.com/agm-service . After completing the necessary steps, you are sent a temporarily valid Access Password to the e-mail address you provided upon registration. After receiving the e-mail, please use the Internet Service again and enter your Shareholder Control Number and the temporarily valid Access Password provided in our e-mail. You can then select a new Access Password of your own and so activate your account again. Alternatively, please call the shareholder hotline (available Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET) + 49 (0) 89 636 - 25 358 or send an e-mail, stating your Shareholder Control Number, to hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de . Information on data protection for Siemens Energy AG shareholders The EU General Data Protection Regulation ascribes great importance to the transparency of data processing. The security of your personal data and protection of your privacy are our utmost priority, which we ensure with state-of-the-art methods for secure data communication. The following is intended to provide you with information on processing of your personal data by Siemens Energy AG and your rights under data protection law. You can obtain more information on data protection in our Privacy Notice . Who is responsible for data processing? The responsible entity is Siemens Energy AG, Otto-Hahn-Ring 6, 81739 Munich, Germany. ADEUS Aktienregister-Service-GmbH, Munich, Germany, has been appointed to maintain the share register of Siemens Energy AG. If you have any questions on data protection in the share register, we therefore ask you to contact hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de or the hotline at + 49 (0) 89 636 - 25 358. For what purposes and on what legal basis is your data processed? From whom do we obtain your data? When maintaining the share register, we process your data – as we receive it from you, the custodian bank or the central securities depository Clearstream Banking AG, Eschborn, Germany – on the basis of the requirements under stock corporation and capital market law as well as regulatory specifications. Section 67 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) stipulates that registered shares must be entered in the company’s share register along with the name, date of birth and postal as well as e-mail address of the shareholder and the number of shares. In order to clarify any potential ambiguities, the bank submitting the information will also be recorded. We use your personal data for the purposes provided for in the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). These purposes include, in particular, maintaining the share register, communicating with you as a shareholder, and staging Shareholders’ Meetings. In the case of structural or capital measures, we must refrain from providing certain shareholders with information on offers owing to their nationality or place of residence, in order to comply with securities legislation in individual countries. In connection with the Shareholders’ Meeting, we process your personal data (register data of the shareholder, the name, address and e-mail address of his/her representative, if applicable, the type of ownership of the shares, absentee votes/voting instructions, and the number of the admission ticket, if applicable) on the basis of prevailing data protection legislation in order to enable you as a shareholder to exercise your rights at the Shareholders’ Meeting. Processing of your personal data is mandatory under stock corporation law (Section 123 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) in conjunction with Section 14 of the Articles of Association of Siemens Energy AG; Section 129 (1) sentence 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG); Section 1 (1, 2) of the Act on Measures in Corporate Law, Cooperatives Law, Associations Law, Trust Law, and Real Estate Owner Law to Combat the Effects of the COVID-19-Pandemic) so that you can attend the Shareholders’ Meeting and/or cast votes. To which categories of recipients do we pass on your data? We use external service providers and their subcontractors, in each case in the EU, for administration and technical maintenance of the share register (share register service company) and to stage the Shareholders’ Meeting (shareholders’ meeting service provider). Upon the publication of counterproposals and election nominations we disclose the name and address of the respective shareholder. In connection with the Shareholders' Meeting, shareholders and their proxy representatives may view the list of attendance. How long do we store your data? As a matter of principle, we render your personal data anonymous and delete it as soon as it is no longer deemed necessary for the above-mentioned purposes, insofar as statutory documentation and storage obligations (for example in the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), German Commercial Code (HGB), German Fiscal Code (AO)) are not applicable. What are your rights as a data subject? At the address stated above, you can obtain information on and access to the data about you that we have stored. If certain requirements are met, you also have the right to demand that your data be rectified or erased or that processing of it be restricted (for instance, if your data is processed unlawfully). Do you wish to lodge a complaint about how your data is being used? You can contact the Data Privacy Officer via the email address stated in our Privacy Notice or the responsible data protection supervisory authority. The data protection supervisory authority responsible for Siemens Energy AG is: Bayerisches Landesamt für Datenschutzaufsicht (Bavarian Data Protection Authority), Promenade 27, 91522 Ansbach, Germany, https://www.lda.bayern.de/en/contact.html Deutsche Version Stay in Touch Energy Transition Actions​ Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Secure supply chains Products and Services Industries Use cases Products Services Trainings Company About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Careers Supplier Contact Reporting Channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Corporate information Privacy notice Cookie notice Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025