Joe Kaeser reelected as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Joe Kaeser reelected as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy Press release February 20, 2025 Munich At today's virtual Annual General Meeting of Siemens Energy AG, the shareholders approved all items on the agenda by a large majority. At its peak, more than 1,074 people followed the webcast of the Annual General Meeting, with 59.92 percent of the voting shares represented. The actions of the Management Board for the past fiscal year 2024 were approved with a total of more than 99 percent of the votes. The past fiscal year closed with net income of EUR 1.3 billion and thus with a profit for the first time. A net loss of EUR 4.6 billion was recorded in the 2023 fiscal year. The Supervisory Board was formally discharged with an approval ratio of over 99 percent. In the elections to the Supervisory Board, which were held as scheduled after four years on the capital side, all candidates standing for election were confirmed by the Annual Gerneral Meeting – the exact voting results are available on the Siemens Energy website. At the subsequent constituent meeting of the Supervisory Board, Joe Kaeser was unanimously elected as its Chairman. Dr. Hubert Lienhard was also unanimously elected Lead Independent Director, whose powers were significantly strengthened by a resolution of the Supervisory Board on December 11, 2024. The Lead Independent Director is now a permanent member of the Presiding Committee and the Nomination Committee as well as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. In the run-up to the Annual General Meeting, some investors had expressed concerns about the independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, although he was never CEO of Siemens Energy AG and left the former parent company Siemens AG more than four years ago. The appointment and additional responsibilities of the Lead Independent Director will further strengthen the quality of corporate governance in the company. Anja-Isabel Dotzenrath, an independent management consultant in the energy sector and decarbonization of industry, and Dr. Feiyu Xu, Managing Director of Amber Iris AI Consulting GmbH, who is to represent the topic of artificial intelligence more strongly, were newly elected to the Supervisory Board. Ms. Dotzenrath received 99.77 percent and Ms. Xu received 98.16 percent of the votes at the Annual General Meeting. Dr. Christine Maria Bortenlänger and Hildegard Müller will leave the Supervisory Board as planned. Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Annual General Meeting, emphasized: "Today's Annual General’s Meeting has shown that our shareholders are convinced of the operational strength and strategic direction of Siemens Energy. The confidence in the Managing Board under the leadership of Christian Bruch has been confidently confirmed. The structure of the Lead Independent Director function is unique in the German DAX and sends a clear signal to strengthen corporate governance in Germany. I look forward to working with the newly elected Supervisory Board and would like to thank the two departing members Christine Bortenlänger and Hildegard Müller for their valuable contributions over the past four years." The next Annual General Meeting of Siemens Energy AG will take place on February 26, 2026, as an in-person event in Berlin. Images of the event for your press coverage Please find addtional images of the Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2025 in our media library. Siemens Energy Press Library Contact Oliver Sachgau Siemens Energy oliver.sachgau@siemens-energy.com +49 173 2729231 Download Press Release Joe Kaeser reelected as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy February 20, 2025 PDF (86 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €34.5 billion in fiscal year 2024. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Read more May 8, 2025 Munich Second Quarter Results FY 2025 May 8, 2025 Munich Earnings Release Q2 FY 2025: Outlook raised after strong first half year results, especially in the second quarter – focus on profitable growth April 16, 2025 Berlin Ad-hoc: Siemens Energy AG announces preliminary results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2025 and raises its outlook for fiscal year 2025. March 26, 2025 Berlin Siemens Gamesa to divest a majority stake of its Indian wind business and enter into strategic partnership agreement with TPG and others See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025