Confidential  
   
Conditions  of Purchase   
 
Status : April, 2025   
 
1. Order and Confirmation of Order  
1.1 The Customer may cancel the order if the Supplier has not confirmed  the 
acceptance of the order (confirmation) .  
1.2 Any alterations, amendments or additions to the order shall only become a part of 
the contract if the Customer accepts such in writing. In particular, the Supplier is bound 
to the terms and conditions of the Customer  set herein .  
The acceptance of deliveries or services as well as payments does not constitute such 
agreement.  
1.3 Any provisions in other documents provided by the Supplier (such as but not limited 
to: specifications, data sheets, technical documentation, advertising materials, order 
confirmation and/or shipping documents) regarding legal terms, liability, restriction of 
use, restriction of application and/or restriction of suitability, or any other provision that 
changes the provisions of these Conditions of Purchase shall not be applicable.  
 
2. Rights of Use  
2.1 The Supplier hereby grants the Customer the following non -exclusive,  transferable, 
worldwide and perpetual rights:  
2.1.1 to use the deliveries and services including related documentation, to  integrate 
them into other products and to distribute them;  
2.1.2 to install, launch, test and operate software and its related documentation 
(hereinafter collectively referred to as “Software”);  
2.1.3 to sublicense the right of use under section 2.1.2 above to affiliates (or related 
companies), herein -after referred to as “Affiliates”), to contracted third parties, to 
distributors and to end customers;  
2.1.4 to license to Affiliates and other distributors the right to sublicense the right of use 
under section 2.1.2 above to end customers;  
2.1.5 to use the Software for integration into other products and to copy the  Software, or 
to allow Affiliates, contracted third parties or distributors to  use and copy the Software;  
2.1.6 to distribute, sell, hire out, lease, make ready for download or make publicly 
available the Software, e.g. in the context of application service providing or in other 
contexts, and to copy the Software to the extent required, always provided that the 
number of licenses being used at any one time does not exceed the number of licenses 
purchased;  
2.1.7 to sublicense the right of use under section 2.1.6 above to Affiliates, contracted 
third parties and distributors.  
2.2 In addition to the rights granted in section 2.1 above, the Customer, Affiliates and 
distributors are authorized to allow end customers to transfer the respective licenses.  
2.3 All sublicenses granted by the Customer must contain appropriate protection for the 
intellectual property rights of the Supplier in the Software.  
All sublicenses must contain any contractual provisions used by the Customer to protect 
its own intellectual property rights.  
2.4 The Supplier shall inform the Customer - at the latest at the time the order is 
confirmed - whether the products and services to be delivered contain open source 
components.  
In the context of this provision “open source components” means any software, 
hardware or other information that is provided royalty -free by the respective licensor to 
any user on the basis of a license with the right to modify and/or to distribute (e.g. GNU 
General Public License (GPL), the GNU Lesser GPL (LGPL), or the MIT License). 
Should the products and services delivered by the Supplier contain open source 
components, the Supplier shall comply with all applicable open source license terms and 
shall grant all those rights to the Customer and provide all information which the 
Customer needs in order to comply himself with the applicable license terms. In 
particular, the Supplier must deliver to the Customer promptly after the order is 
confirmed the following:  
-A schedule of all open source components used, indicating the relevant license, its 
version and including a copy of the complete text of such license and including a 
reference to copyright and/or authorship.  
Such schedule must have an understandable structure and contain a table of contents.  
-The complete source code of the relevant open source software, including scripts and 
information regarding its generating environment insofar as the applicable open source 
conditions require this.  
2.5 The Supplier shall by the time of order confirmation at the latest inform the Customer 
in writing whether any open source licenses used by the Supplier might be subject to a 
Copyleft Effect which could affect the products of the Customer. In the context of this 
provision, “Copyleft Effect“ means that the provisions of the open source license require 
that certain of the Supplier’s products, as well as any products derived from  such 
products, may only be redistributed in accordance with the terms  of the open source 
license, e.g. only if the source code is disclosed. In  case any open source licenses used 
by the Supplier are subject to a  “Copyleft Effect” as defined above, then the Customer is 
entitled to cancel the order within two weeks of receipt of this information.  
 
3. Delay and Penalty for Breach  
3.1 For the purposes of establishing the timeliness of delivery, the relevant  point in time 
is the date of receipt at the place of destination/delivery  according to Incoterms ® 2020 
designated by the Customer, and for  deliveries involving installation, commissioning or 
rectification services,  the relevant point in time shall be the date of acceptance by the 
Customer.  
3.2 If any delay in delivery or performance or rectification is anticipated, the  Customer 
shall be notified immediately,  and its decision sought.   
 
 
 
 
3.3 In the event of delay, the Customer may charge or deduct a penalty in 
respect of each commenced natural day of delay amounting to 1 % (one  
percent) but not exceeding a total of 10 % (ten percent) of the total value of 
the contract.  
3.4 Additional or other statutory rights are not affected hereby.  
 
4. Transfer of Risk, Dispatch and Place of Performance, Transfer of Title   
4.1 For deliveries involving installation, commissioning or services, the  transfer 
of risk occurs on acceptance and for deliveries not involving  installation or 
commissioning, the transfer of risk shall be upon receipt  by the Customer at 
the named place of destination/delivery according  to Incoterms ® 2020. 
Unless agreed otherwise, DDP (named place of  destination) Incoterms ® 
2020 shall apply, if (a) the seat of the Supplier  and the named place of 
destination are within the same country or if (b)  the seat of the Supplier and 
the named place of destination are both  within the European Union. If neither 
(a) nor (b) are fulfilled, then DAP  (named place of destination) Incoterms ® 
2020 shall apply, unless  agreed otherwise.  
4.2 Unless otherwise agreed, the costs of adequate packaging shall be  borne 
by the Supplier. In case transportation costs are borne by the  Customer, 
notice of readiness for dispatch shall be given together with  the information set 
out in section 4.3 hereunder. On the Customer’s request a Siemens Energy 
routing order tool must be used by the Supplier. Transport shall be arranged 
by the Supplier at the lowest possible  cost, insofar as the Customer has not 
requested a particular method of  delivery or the conclusion of the contract for 
carriage by the Customer.  
Any supplementary costs arising from non -conformity with the transport  
requirements including costs arising from the non -application of the Siemens 
Energy routing order tool, if requested, shall be borne by the Supplier. In case 
DAP/DDP (named place of destination) Incoterms ® 2020 is agreed,  the 
Customer may also determine the method of transportation. Any  
supplementary costs arising from the need to meet the delivery deadline by 
way of expedited delivery shall be borne by the Supplier.  
4.3 Each delivery shall include a packing note or delivery note with details  of 
the contents as well as the complete order number.  
4.4 As far as the Customer and the Supplier agree that the Supplier orders  the 
transport of deliveries containing dangerous goods for account of  the 
Customer, the Supplier is responsible to provide  the necessary  legally 
required dangerous goods data to the freight forwarder nominated  by the 
Customer when placing the transport order. The Supplier is in  these cases 
also responsible for packing, marking, labelling, etc. in  compliance with the 
applicable regulation to the mode(s) of transport  used.  
4.5 If the Customer informs the Supplier that following the initial transport  
another transport with a different mode of transport is scheduled, the  Supplier 
will also follow the relevant legal requirements concerning dangerous goods 
with regard to such on -going transport.  
4.6 Transfer of title shall be upon delivery or acceptance by the Customer,  as 
the case may be.  
 
5.Payment, Invoices  
5.1 Unless otherwise agreed, payments shall be due and payable no later  
than 90 (ninety) days. If payment is made within 14 (fourteen) days,  the 
Customer is entitled to a 3 % (three percent) discount. The period  for payment 
shall commence as soon as the Customer has received and accepted 
Supplier´s invoice.  
5.2 Supplier will be bound to comply with Customer´s invoicing requirements . 
Insofar as any such details are omitted, invoices shall not be payable.  
5.3 Insofar as the Supplier is required to provide material testing, test records 
or quality control documents or any other documentation, such  shall be a part 
of the requirements of the completeness of the delivery  or performance. A 
discount shall also be allowed if the Customer sets  off or withholds any 
payments to a reasonable extent on account of any  deficiency.  
5.4 Payment does not constitute an acknowledgement that the corresponding  
delivery or services were provided in accordance with the contract.  
 
6. Inspection upon receipt  
6.1 The Customer shall immediately upon receipt at the named place of  
destination examine whether a delivery corresponds to the quantity and  type 
of products ordered and whether there are any external recognizable  
transportation damage or other obvious deficiencies.  
6.2 Should the Customer discover any deficiency in the course of these  
inspections or at any later stage, it shall inform the Supplier of such  deficiency.  
6.3 Complaints may be raised within one month of delivery of a product or  
performance, and insofar as deficiencies are not discovered until 
commissioning, processing or first use, within one month of detection.  
6.4 In this regard the Customer shall have no other duties to the Supplier  other 
than the duties of inspection and notification above.  
 
 

Confidential  
 7. Warranty  
7.1 If deficiencies are identified before or during the transfer of risk or during  the 
warranty period provided for in section 7.8 or 7.9, the Supplier must  at its own expense 
and at the discretion of the Customer either repair  the deficiency or provide re -
performance of services or replacement of  deliveries (= rectification). This provision also 
applies to deliveries subject to inspection by sample tests. The discretion of the 
Customer shall  be exercised fairly and reasonably.  
7.2 Should the Supplier fail to rectify (i. e. repair or replacement) any deficiency within a 
reasonable time period set by the Customer, the Customer is entitled to:  
7.2.1 cancel the contract in whole or in part without being subject to any liability for 
damages; or  
7.2.2 demand a reduction in price; or  
7.2.3 undertake itself any repair at the expense of the Supplier or   re-performance of 
services or replacement of deliveries or arrange for such to  be done by a third party the 
costs arises in such cases attributable to the Supplier,  shall be deducted from the 
outstanding invoices by the Customer and  
7.2.4 claim damages in lieu of performance.  
For the purposes of establishing the timeliness of rectification, the relevant point in time 
is the date of receipt at the place of destination.  
7.3 The rights according to section 7.2 may be exercised without further  deadline if the 
Customer has a strong particular interest in immediate  rectification in order to avoid any 
liability of its own for delay or for other  reasons of urgency and it is not reasonable for 
the Customer to request  the Supplier to rectify the deficiency within a reasonable time 
period.  The legal provisions on the dispensability of setting a deadline remain  unaffected 
hereby.  
7.4 Not used  
7.5 Additional or other statutory rights are not affected hereby.  
7.6 If the Supplier provides subsequent performance of services or repairs, the warranty 
periods set out in section 7.8 and 7.9 shall begin to run once  again.  
7.7 Notwithstanding the transfer of risk regarding delivery, the Supplier  shall bear the 
costs and risk related to the rectification (e. g. return  costs, costs of transport, costs of 
de- and re -installation).  
7.8 The warranty period for deficiencies of material is three years, insofar  as no statutory 
provisions provide longer periods.  
7.9 The warranty period for deficiencies in title is five years, insofar as no  statutory 
provisions provide longer periods.  
7.10 For deliveries not involving installation or commissioning, the warranty  period 
begins to run with receipt at the place of destination named by  the Customer. For 
deliveries involving installation, commissioning or  services, the warranty period begins to 
run with acceptance by the Customer. Upon delivery to locations where the Customer is 
operating outside its premises, the warranty period begins with the acceptance by the 
end customer, in no case later than one year after transfer of risk.  
 
8. Supplier’s Duty to Verify and to Inform  
8.1 The Supplier is obliged to examine components such as, e.g. raw material, provided 
by the Customer or provided by the Supplier’s suppliers, manufacturers or other third 
parties at the time of receipt of such components as to whether these components show 
any obvious or hidden defects. In case any defects are discovered in the course of such 
inspections, the Supplier shall immediately inform its suppliers or – in the case the 
components are provided by the Customer – inform the Customer.  
8.2 It is essential that the products are delivered free of any third -party rights. Thus,  the 
Supplier is under a duty to verify title and inform the Customer of any possible conflicting 
industrial and intellectual property rights. Any breach of such duty is subject to the 
normal statutory limitation period.  
 
9. Quality Management, Subcontracting to Third Parties  
9.1 The Supplier shall maintain a quality management system (e.g. according to DIN EN 
ISO 9001).  
9.2 Subcontracting to third parties shall not take place without the prior written consent 
of the Customer and entitles the Customer to cancel the  contract in whole or in part and 
claim damages.  
 
9.3. Labor responsibility  
The Supplier acknowledges that it will be the solely and exclusively responsible before to 
the Customer to comply with the civil, fiscal (state and federal), labor, social security, 
environmental, health, safety, immigration obligations that the current relevant 
legislations, laws and regulations indicate in relation to its personnel and its 
subcontractors’ personnel that it might use directly or indirectly for the execution of the 
supply of the Products and/or Services.  
The Supplier as only responsible before the Customer of the personnel that intervenes in 
the execution of the supply of the Products and Services subject matter of this Purchase 
Order, undertakes to hold the Customer, its subsidiaries, its affiliates, and their 
corresponding representatives and collaborators, harmless from any claim, suit, 
complaint, action, fine, loss or damage related to any noncompliance with the obligations 
above mentioned. Supplier shall compensate Customer for all damages, losses and 
expenses resulting thereof. As well as to reimburse any expense that for such motive the 
Customer might disburse, including court fees and expenses of Customer’s lawyers.  
 
10. Provided Material, Information  
10.1 Material and information provided by the Customer remains the property of the 
Customer and are to be stored, labeled as property of the Customer and administered 
separately at no cost to the Customer.  
Their use is limited to the orders of the Customer only. The Supplier shall supply replacements in the event of reduction of value or loss, for which the Supplier 
is responsible, even in the event of simple negligence.  
This also applies to the transfer of allocated material.  
10.2 Any processing or transformation of the material and information shall  
take place for the Customer. The Customer shall immediately become  owner 
of the new or transformed product. Should this be impossible for  legal 
reasons, the Customer and the Supplier hereby agree that the  Customer shall 
be the owner of the new product at all times during the  processing or 
transformation. The Supplier shall keep the new product  safe for the Customer 
at no extra cost and in so doing exercise the duty  of care of a merchant.  
 
11. Tools, Patterns, Samples, Confidentiality  
11.1 Any tools, patterns, samples, models, profiles, drawings, standard  
specification sheets, printing templates and materials provided by the  
Customer or made for the Customer, as well as any materials derived  there 
from, shall not be made available to any third party nor used for  any other 
purpose than those contractually agreed except with the prior  written consent 
of the Customer. Such materials shall be protected  against unauthorized 
access or use. Subject to any further rights the  Customer may demand that 
such materials be returned if the Supplier  breaches these duties.  
11.2 The Supplier shall treat as confidential the knowledge and findings, 
documents, terms of reference, business processes or other information  that it 
receives from or about the Customer in the context of performing  the 
deliveries and services, as well as the conclusion of the contract  and any 
results, with regard to third parties - and shall keep the same  confidential 
beyond the term of the contract – for as long as and insofar  as such 
information has not become publicly known by legal means or  the Customer 
has not consented in writing to its transfer in the individual  case. The Supplier 
shall make confidential information available only to  those employees who 
need the information for the fulfillment of their  duties and shall ensure that 
such employees are also subject to a duty  to treat such information as 
confidential. The Supplier shall use this information exclusively for the purpose 
of performing the deliveries and  services. Insofar as the Customer agrees to 
any subcontracting to a  third party, such third party shall agree to such terms 
in writing.  
 
12. Assignment of Claims  
Any assignment of any claim is only allowed with the prior written approval of 
the Customer.  
 
13. Right to Terminate and Cancel  
13.1 In addition to any rights provided by law to terminate  or cancel a  contract, 
the Customer may cancel the contract in whole or in part in  case (a) the 
Supplier is in delay with its delivery or service and such  delay persists  for 
more than two weeks after receipt of such delay notification  (b) a threat of  
contract unfulfillment taking into consideration the circumstances of the case  
and Customer´s  interests. This might, in particular, apply in case of an  actual 
or possible deterioration of the Supplier’s financial situation thus  threatening 
the due fulfillment of the Supplier’s obligations under the  contract.  
13.2 The Customer may also terminate the contract in case insolvency 
proceedings or similar proceedings in relation to the assets of the Supplier  are 
applied for or commenced.  
13.3 In case of a termination by the Customer the Customer may continue  to 
utilize existing facilities, deliveries or services already performed by  the 
Supplier in exchange for payment of goods and/or services that have been 
accepted by the Customer at the time of termination.  
 
14.Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy Suppliers, Security in the  
Supply Chain  
The Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal  
system(s). In particular, the Supplier will not engage, actively or passively, nor 
directly or indirectly in any form of bribery, in any violation of  
basic human rights of employees or any child labor and the Supplier shall  
comply with the regulations of  the Siemens Energy Code of Conduct and  
address these expectations to its own suppliers along its supply chain.  
Moreover, the Supplier will take responsibility for the health and safety of  
its employees and shall fulfill the applicable minimum wage requirements.  
By acting in accordance with the applicable environmental laws, the  
Supplier shall take adequate measures to avoid the deployment of socalled 
conflict minerals and shall create transparency over the origin of  
raw materials. The Supplier shall provide a protected grievance  
mechanism for its own employees to report possible violations of this  
Code of Conduct and will take reasonable measures to make its suppliers  
comply with the principles of this Code of Conduct and to verify this on a  
risk basis. Supplier shall be obliged to duly document its compliance with  
the Code of Conduct. Customer and its representatives or a third party 
appointed by the Customer and  reasonably acceptable to Supplier shall be  
entitled (but not obliged) to conduct – also at Supplier’s premises – 
inspections in order to verify Supplier’s compliance with the contractual  
obligations, in particular with the Code of Conduct. Any such inspection  
may only be conducted in accordance with the applicable data protection  
law and shall neither unreasonably interfere with Suppliers' business  
Confidential  
 activities nor violate any of Suppliers' confidentiality agreements with third  
parties. Supplier shall reasonably cooperate in any inspection to be  
conducted. Supplier shall immediately initiate any remedial actions if it  
detects any violation of the Code of Conduct by itself or its subcontractors  
and shall promptly inform Customer of any such violation and the remedial  
action if and to the extent such breach affects the contract.  
14.2 The Supplier shall provide the necessary organizational instructions and take 
measures, particularly with regard to the following security: premises security, packaging 
and transport, business partner, personnel and information - in order to guarantee the 
security in the supply chain according to the requirements of respective internationally 
recognized initiatives based on the WCO SAFE Framework of Standards (e. g. AEO, C -
TPAT). The Supplier shall protect the goods and services provided to the Customer or 
provided to third parties designated by the Customer against unauthorized access and 
manipulation. The Supplier shall only deploy reliable personnel for those goods  and 
services and shall obligate any sub -suppliers to take equivalent security measures.  
 
14.3 In addition to other rights and remedies the Customer may have, the  Customer may 
terminate the contract in case of breach of the obligations under section 14 by the 
Supplier. However, provided that the Supplier’s breach of contract is capable of remedy, 
the Customer’s right to  terminate is subject to the proviso that such breach has not been 
remedied by the Supplier within a reasonable grace period set by the Customer.  
 
15. Product Conformity, Product Related Environmental Protection  including Substance 
Declaration, Dangerous Goods, Occupational Health and Safety  
15.1 Should the Supplier deliver products, to which product -related statutory  and legal 
requirements apply in view of their placing on the market and  further marketing in the 
European Economic Area or to which corresponding requirements apply regarding other 
countries notified by the  Customer to the Supplier, then the Supplier must ensure 
compliance of  the products with these requirements at the time of transfer of risk. 
Furthermore, the Supplier must ensure that all documents and information  which are 
necessary to provide the proof of conformity of products with  the respective 
requirements can be furnished immediately to the Customer upon request.  
15.2 Should the Supplier deliver products, substances of which are set out  in the so  
called “List of Declarable Substances” (www.bomcheck.net/suppliers/restricted -and-
declarable -substances -list) applicable at the  time of the order or which are subject to 
statutorily imposed substance  restrictions and/or information requirements (e. g. 
REACH, RoHS), the  Supplier shall declare such substances and provide information as 
requested in the web database BOMcheck (www.BOMcheck.net)  no later  than the date 
of first delivery of products. With respect to statutorily imposed substance restrictions the 
foregoing shall only apply to laws  which are applicable at the registered seat of the 
Supplier or the Customer or at the place of destination named by the Customer.  
15.3 Should the delivery contain goods which – according to international  regulations – 
are classified as dangerous goods, the Supplier will inform  the Customer hereof in a 
form agreed upon between the Supplier and  the Customer, but in no case later than the 
date of order confirmation.  
The requirements concerning dangerous goods in section 4.4 and 4.5  remain 
unaffected.  
15.4 The Supplier is obliged to comply with all legal requirements regarding  the health 
and safety of the personnel employed by the Supplier. It must  ensure that the health and 
safety of its personnel as well as indirect  subcontractors employed to perform the 
deliveries and services is pro tected.  
 
16. Cybersecurity  
16.1 The Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and technical  measures to 
ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and availability of Supplier Operations as 
well as products and services. These  measures shall be consistent with good industry 
practice and shall include an appropriate information security management system 
consistent with standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent 
applicable).  
16.2 “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes and systems (including 
information systems), data (including Customer data), personnel, and sites, used or 
processed by the Supplier from time to time in  the performance of this contract.  
16.3 Should products or services contain software, firmware, or chipsets:  
i) the Supplier shall implement appropriate standards, processes and  methods to 
prevent, identify, evaluate and repair any vulnerabilities,  malicious code, and security 
incidents in products and services which  shall be consistent with good industry practice 
and standards such as  ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable);  
ii) the Supplier shall continue to support and provide services to repair,  update, upgrade 
and maintain products and services including the provision of patches to the Customer 
remedying vulnerabilities for the reasonable lifetime of the products and services;  
iii) the Supplier shall provide to the Customer a bill of materials identifying  all third -party 
software components contained in the products. Third -party software shall be up -to-date 
at the time of delivery to the Customer;  
iv) the Supplier shall grant to the Customer the right, but the Customer  shall not be 
obliged, to test or have tested products for malicious code  and vulnerabilities at any 
time, and shall adequately support the Customer;  
v) the Supplier shall provide the Customer a contact for all information security related 
issues (available during business hours).  
16.4 The Supplier shall promptly report to the Customer all relevant information security 
incidents occurred or suspected and vulnerabilities discovered in any Supplier 
Operations, services and products, if and to the  extent the Customer is or is likely to be 
materially affected.  
16.5 The Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its subcontractors and 
suppliers shall, within a reasonable time, be bound by  obligations similar to the 
provisions of this section 16.  16.6 Upon the Customer’s request, the Supplier shall provide written evidence 
of its compliance with this section 16 including generally accepted audit 
reports (e.g. SSAE -16 SOC 2 Type II).  
 
17. Export Control and Foreign Trade Data Regulations  
17.1 The Supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, customs and 
foreign trade regulations (“Foreign Trade Regulations”). In particular, the 
Supplier represents and warrants that none of its products nor its services 
provided under the contract contain products and/or services restricted for 
import under the Foreign Trade Regulations applicable to the Customer, 
including but not limited to Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 
2022/263 or 765/2006, each as amended, and import restrictions enforced by 
the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.  
 
The Supplier shall advise the Customer in writing within two weeks of receipt 
of the order - and in case of any changes without undue delay - of any 
information and data required by the Customer to comply with all Foreign 
Trade Regulations in case of export and import as well as re -export, including 
without limitation:  
 
- all applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control Classification 
Number according to the U.S. Commerce Control List (ECCN); and  
- the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity 
classification for foreign trade statistics and the HS (Harmonized System) 
coding including the respective tariff basis on which the classification of the 
product has been performed (e.g. EU Combined Nomenclature, TARIC, US 
HTS); and  
- the country of origin (non -preferential origin) as well as the region of origin, if 
applicable for the respective country of origin; proof of origin (e.g. Packing -
List, Delivery Note, BOL, GAI); and  
- upon request of the Customer: preferential statement including Supplier’s 
declaration of preferential origin (in case of European suppliers) or preferential 
certificates (in case of non -European suppliers);  
and 
-upon request of the Customer: evidence of the country of origin of the iron 
and steel inputs used for the processing of the products.  
 
Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage incurred by the 
Customer due to any breach of the obligations according to this section 17.1  
 
17.2 Ban on re -exports to Russia („No -Russia -Clause“)  
The following clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) the Customer supplies 
any goods or technology to the Supplier in the course of the execution of the 
contract, (ii) such supplied goods or technology are or refer to goods listed in 
the Annexes set out in Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8g 
EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended and (iii) and the supply takes place 
from the EU to a third country except for partner countries according to Article 
12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as 
amended:  
 
- The Customer hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the Supplier agrees, not 
to re -export and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for 
use in Russia or Belarus any supplied goods as well as technology (and 
related documentation, regardless of the mode of provision) provided by the 
Customer to the Supplier under  
the contract.  
- The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the contract by written notice in 
the event of a breach by the Supplier of the obligation pursuant to this section 
17.2. Upon termination, the Supplier shall pay to the Customer all costs and 
damages incurred by the Customer from such termination. In any case, the 
Supplier shall pay the Customer liquidated damages in the amount of 20 % of 
the contract price.  
- Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove in this section 17.2, the Supplier 
shall indemnify and hold harmless the Customer in full from and against any 
claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public 
authorities or other third parties against the Customer arising out of or relating 
to a breach by the Supplier of the  
obligations under this section 17.2 and the Supplier shall compensate the 
Customer for all losses and expenses incurred resulting thereof.  
 
18. Reservation Clause  
Customer  shall not be obligated to fulfill this agreement if such fulfillment is 
prevented by any impediments arising out of national or international foreign 
trade or customs requirements or any embargoes or other sanctions.  
 
19. Labor Obligations  
The Supplier undertakes to comply with the obligations contained in articles 12, 
13, 14, 15 and other applicable articles of the Federal Labor Law, Social 
Security Law, and other applicable articles such as:  
I. Register as a supplier with the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS) in 
the Registry of Providers of Specialized Services or Specialized Works and 
perform the quarterly registration of the contracts concluded in that period in 
accordance with article 29 BIS of the Social Security Law. The Supplier 
Confidential  
 undertakes to count from the beginning of the work and until the conclusion of it, with the 
Registry of Providers of Specialized Services or Specialized Works, as well as to carry out 
any necessary procedure or management in an enunciative but not limiting way before the 
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, Secretary of Finance and Public Credit,  as well as to 
carry out all the necessary steps in order to always comply with all laws, regulations or 
legal systems that are modified or reformed in terms of Labor, Social Security and Fiscal 
matters, such as the Federal Labor Law, Social Security Law, INFONAVIT Law, Federal 
Law of Workers in the Service of the State,  Fiscal Code of the Federation, Income Tax 
Law, Value Added Tax Law, or any other that is necessary as well as being aware of your 
tax and social security obligations.  
II. Provide quarterly the information of the contracts concluded in the applicable quarter in 
accordance with article 15 A of the Social Security Law;  
III. Be up to date with the obligations arising from relations with its workers;  
IV. Carry out the relevant employer substitutions within the period granted by the transitory 
articles of the Reform relating to subcontracting;  
V. Formalization of written contracts when required by law; and  
VI. Any other obligation contained in the applicable provisions on Subcontracting.  
Therefore, in the event that the Supplier fails to comply with the deadline mentioned above 
or with any or all of the obligations indicated in the previous paragraphs, due to delay, at its 
own discretion, omission or refusal of registration by the authorities, it will be solely 
responsible for any penalty, infraction and / or fine that the labor authorities,  fiscal and / or 
social security impose on the Client, and must remove the Client in peace and safe 
immediately from any responsibility. Likewise, it undertakes to refund pecuniarily the 
expense that the Client may suffer due to the Supplier's breach of its obligations in Labor 
and Tax matters, as well as any economic loss suffered by the Client derived from this 
breach.  
If the Supplier fails to comply in a timely manner with these obligations, the Customer may 
withhold payments and subsequently terminate the contract without liability.   
 
20. Mention as Reference Customer  
Only upon the Customer’s prior written approval, the Supplier shall be  allowed to 
mention the Customer as a reference customer and/or make  reference to products or 
services which the Supplier has developed during the performance of an order for the 
Customer.  
 
21. Supplementary Provisions  
21.1 Insofar as the provisions of these Conditions of Purchase do not regulate certain 
matters, relevant statutory provisions shall apply.  
21.2 The Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damages incurred  by the 
Customer due to any breach of these conditions, in particular of  sections 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 14, 
15, 16 and 17, unless the Supplier is not responsible for such breach.  
 
22. Place of Jurisdiction and Applicable Law  
22.1 The relevant court of jurisdiction shall be Customer ´s Jurisdiction  
22.2 Customer ´s substantive law shall apply, excluding the provisions of the  
United Nations Law on the Sale of Goods of 11th of April 1980.  
 
23. Suspension  
The Customer may by notice to Supplier, request at any time the suspension of products 
supply or performance of the Services. Resulted and proven costs incurred by Supplier 
related to the suspension shall be covered by the Customer, as long as such cost are 
previously agreed and accepted by the Customer. If the suspension exceeds sixty (60) 
days in aggregate, the Customer may terminate the Contract without any liability.  
 
24. Act of God of Force Majeure  
Neither Party shall be liable to the other for the breach of its obligations under this 
Contract and/or Purchase Order, if such breach is a result from an Act of God or Force 
Majeure.  
Act of God or Force Majeure shall mean those nature, man or authority acts outside of 
the domain of their will, which could not have been foreseen or even anticipating it, could 
not be avoided or overcome, and it should be general, meaning, that its performance is 
impossible to carry out for any person, which include, but is not limited to, fires, earthquakes, floods or any other natural catastrophes, acts of vandalism, 
expropriation or other similar causes beyond the control of the Party in default.  
It will not be considered Act of God or Force Majeure, Any event resulting from 
the lack of foresight, negligence, fraud, bad faith, inexperience, provocation or 
fault of the Provider, as well as events derived from the “Covid -19” pandemic, 
unless it exists a declaration by the competent authorities where a restriction 
is established, or those events that are not duly justified.  
The affected Party by an Act of Providence or Force Majeure shall notify such 
event to the other Party, in writing, within the following five calendars natural 
days after the date of its occurrence, along with such notification must include 
the documents that justify such circumstance. Such notification must contain 
the detailed description of the supplies or services that were affected or may 
be affected, as well as the actions that the Supplier will carry out to mitigate 
the effects of the Force Majeure.  
In the event that the Supplier certifies in a reliable manner the 
aforementioned, the dates of performance of services or the delivery of 
supplies will be extended in the same number of days equivalent to the 
duration of the suspension due to the Force Majeure event, previous 
formalization of the foregoing by the Parties or its equivalent according to the 
circumstances of the case.  
The C ustomer  may terminate the Contract and/or Purchase Order without any 
responsibility on his side, except for the payment of the supplies or services 
delivered and accepted by the C ustomer , if, in his reasonable opinion, a 
continuation is not economically reasonable or if the Force Majeure exceeds 
one hundred and twenty (120) days in total in the aggregate.  
 
25. Assignment  
 
 
 
The Customer may transfer, assign, or novate the Purchase Order or any part 
of it to an Affiliate.  
The Customer shall further be entitled to assign the whole Purchase Order or 
a   part of it to any third party, in the event of a sale or other transfer of the 
business or a part of the business of the Customer to a third party prior written 
notification to Supplier.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 