   PURCHASE  
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o. 
Valid from  4.9.2024  
 
Page  1 of 16 Contents :  
 
1. Applicability  
2. General Terms and Conditions of the Supplier  
3.           Purchase Order  
4. Electronic Commerce  
5.           Order Performance  
6. Suspension of Purchase Order , Cancellation   
7. Contract Price and Terms of Payment   
8. Acceptance  
9. Invoice  
10. Quality Assurance, Safety and Compliance of Goods   
and Services with Legislation  
11. Warranty, Liability for Material Defects  
12. Materials Provided by the Customer  
13.         Special provisions for planning activities  
14. Hardware and Software  
15. Accessories, Intellectual Property Rights  
16. Third Parties’ Claims  
17.         Assignment of Rights and Obligations  
18. Termination  
19.          Cyber security  
20. Confidentiality , Personal Data  
21. Prohibition of Corruption and Anti -corruption Clause  
22. Compliance With Export Control Regulations  
23. Environmental Protection Relating to Products, Duty 
to Notify, Waste Management, Packaging  
24. Corporate Responsibility in the Supply Chain  
25. The Health and Safety of Persons and Environment 
Protection  
26. Governing Law and Dispute Resolution  
27. Final provision s 
 
 
1. Applicability  
  
1.1. These general terms and conditions o f purchase 
(hereinafter referred to as : General Terms ) shall apply 
to all orders (deliveries of goods and services) of 
Siemens  Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. 
o., Letališka cesta 29c, 1000 Ljubljana, registration 
number 8488339000 (hereinafter referred to as : 
Customer /Buyer or Siemens Energy ) to Supplier (any 
party which supplies products, services to the SIEMENS 
ENERGY).  
 
1.2. The term “ Contract ” shall within these General Terms 
mean the entire legal relation between the Customer and 
the Supplier  as defined inter alia by the purchase order , 
its acceptance  and order confirmation , written 
agreement, eventual amendments to the agreement and 
these General Terms, unless expressly agreed 
otherwise or indicated otherwise in the respective 
context . 
 
2. General Terms and Conditions of the 
Supplier   
 
2.1. Any and all Supplier’s  and/or Provider’s  (hereinafter 
referred to as: “ Supplier ”) general terms and conditions 
of business shall only be binding upon an express  written 
consent of the Customer. A reference made by the 
Customer to the Supplier's offer in its Order shall not 
imply or in any other way constitute a consent to or 
recognition of Supplier's terms and conditions of 
business. In the case of the Cusotmer 's express written 
consent that the Supplier's general terms and conditions apply , these General Terms shall become an integral 
part of the Contract  and shall be used with regard to 
issues not regulated by the Supplier’s general terms and 
conditions of busin ess.  
 
2.2. Any and all Supplier’s general terms and conditions of 
business and/or agreements enclosed in printed or 
electronic form  within the delivery of software products 
shall not be binding upon the Customer, unless the 
Customer has expressly and in writing approved them in 
advance.  This shall particular ly apply  if the Customer or 
any of its affiliated companies set a conduct that 
pursuant to those terms constitutes an explicit or silent 
acceptance of those terms . The foregoing shall also 
apply to the return ing of  software license cards or 
software registration cards to the Supplier . 
 
3. Purchase Order  
 
3.1. The order may be served to the Supplier in writing or as 
an electronic message via electronic mail. The Supplier 
shall immediately confirm acceptance of an order in 
writing or via electronic mail. The Contract between the 
Customer and the Supplier shall be deemed concluded 
when the Customer’s order is confirmed by the Supplier 
if no written (framework) agreement between the 
Customer and the Supplier regarding the Order has been 
concluded.  
 
 
3.2. These General Terms and Conditions of Purchase shall 
become an integral part of the contract upon acceptance 
of an order by the Supplier. Orders must be in writing and 
duly signed to be valid. The Buyer may also place orders 
via Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) provided this has 
been expressly agreed between SIEMENS ENERGY 
and the Supplier in writing. Any amendments to the order 
or oral agreements shall be valid only if SIEMENS 
ENERGY ( Customer/ Buyer) confirms them in writing.  
 
3.3. The Supplier may use subcontractors to perform all or a 
part of its duties under an order if it has obtained an 
express prior approval of SIEMENS ENERGY.  
 
 
3.4. The acceptance of a purchase order shall be 
immediately confirmed to SIEMENS ENERGY. A 
purchase order may also be confirmed via Electronic 
Data Exchange (EDI) provided this has been expressly 
agreed in writing between SIEMENS ENERGY and the 
Supplier. If th e Supplier fails to make a proper order 
confirmation within a time period that shall not exceed 
two weeks from the date of Order placement, the 
Customer shall have the right to cancel the placed Order 
with no further obligations.  Such cancellation is deeme d 
on time if it is sent to the Supplier before SIEMENS 
ENERGY receives the purchase order confirmation.  
 
 
3.5. In case the terms of the order confirmation vary from the 
terms of the order, the Supplier shall unequivocally state 
this and clearly list all variations ; otherwise, it shall be 
considered that the Supplier accepts the Order under the 
terms of the Customer's order. Confirmation with 
variations shall in any case be deemed as a rejection of 
the Customer's order and placement of a new offer by 
the Supplier. If the purchase order confirmation deviates 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  2 of 16 from the order, the Supplier shall clearly state any such 
deviation in the purchase order confirmation. SIEMENS 
ENERGY shall only be bound by such deviation if it has 
expressly accepted it in writing. An unconditional 
acceptance by SIEMENS ENERGY of the go ods 
delivered  by the Supplier shall not be considered as 
acceptance of any such deviation. If the Customer 
accepts this new offer, these General Terms shall 
become an integral part of the Contract thus entered into.   
 
4. Electronic Commerce  
 
4.1. Electronic Commerce shall mean the conduct of 
business in the electronic format by using information 
and communication technology and/or electronic 
signature in legal transaction as defined by the law 
regulating electronic commerce. Electronic Commerce 
shall be equivalent to the classic (written) one provided 
that:  
a) permanent preservation of the electronic messages 
or data contained in an electronic document or 
record is enabled and their later use is accessible 
and ensured;  
b) information is retained as to enable the identification 
of the origin and the destination of an electronic 
message as well as the place and time when it was 
send or received;  
c) information is retained in the format in which it was 
generated, sent or received, or in a format that 
accurately represents the information generated, 
sent or received, respectively;  
d) technology and procedures used appropriately 
prevent any change or deletion of the data that could 
not be detected easily, or reliably ensure the 
inalterability of the message, respectively.  
 
4.2. A message dispatched via electronic mail and not signed 
with a secure electronic signature shall not qualify as a  
message in writing  pursuant to these General Terms .  
 
4.3. An electronic message shall be deemed as sent when it 
enters the information system out of the control of the 
sender or the person who sent the electronic message 
upon order on behalf  of the sender . An electronic 
message shall not be deemed as unsent only due to a 
requested and missing delivery  receipt, unless a prior 
express written agreement stipulates that a delivery 
receipt is required for a valid delivery. The seat of the 
sender shall be deemed the place of dispatch  of the 
electronic message even if th e sender’s information 
system is located elsewhere  and such a place would 
otherwise be regarded as the place of dispatch .   
 
4.4. The electronic message shall be deemed as received 
when it enters the recipient’s information system. The 
seat of the recipient shall be deemed as the place of 
deliver y even if the rec ipient’s information system is 
located elsewhere  and such a place would otherwise be 
regarded as the place of reception . 
 
5. Order Performance  
 
5.1. Performance of the Order must comply with the 
agreement, Customer's requirements , the quality 
customary in such transactions, and in particular 
conditions set forth in Chapter 10 . The performance shall 
be deemed timely if the Supplier fulfils his entire Contract 
obligations by the expiry of the performance term.  
 5.2. Unless agreed otherwise , the performance term shall 
commence to run on the day when the Order was placed 
by the Customer. If the period of delivery/performance is 
not expressly stated in the Order, the 
delivery/performance shall be accomplished 
immediately.  
 
5.3. The relevant point in time for the delivery of goods shall 
be the date of receipt at the place of destination specified 
by SIEMENS ENERGY (“place of use”). If the delivery 
involves erection or installation, the relevant point in time 
shall be the date of acceptance of the goods upon the 
completion of the erection or installation.  The Supplier 
shall promptly inform the Customer of all events and 
facts that he becomes aware of and are relevant for the 
performance of the Order.  
 
If the Supplier learns of possible delays in performance, 
he shall promptly inform the Customer thereof in writing 
and obtain further instructions on performance of the 
Order. The Customer shall be entitled to grant an 
extension of performance term at his sole discretion. T he 
period of delivery of goods or  services shall be extended 
only if Customer  has explicitly recognised such extension 
in writing.  
 
5.4. In the event of a delay in performance , the Customer 
shall be entitled to liquidated damages in the amount of 
0.5 % of the Contract Price for every commenced 
calendar day of delay but not exceeding a total of 10% of 
the Contract Price in aggregate . Such penalty is 
independent of the Supplier’s fault and any proof of 
damage . The Customer shall be entitled to liquidated 
damages even if the Supplier was not advised thereof at 
the time of delivery. Liquidated damages shall be paid 
within 8 days after correctly invoiced. The Customer shall 
be entitled to set off the amount of liqu idated damages 
against the ontract Price. The Custome r shall have the 
right to claim damages exceeding the maximum amount 
of due liquidated damages.  
 
5.5. In the event of a delay, the Customer shall be entitled to 
unilaterally withdraw from the Contract if the Contractor 
does not ensure, upon prior notice, timely and proper 
performance in spite of the lapse of a reasonable 
additional grace period granted by the Customer.  If the 
delivery by a specific deadline is an essential provision  
of the Contract, or if it becomes obvious that proper 
performance will not be ensured in spite of an additional 
grace period, the Customer shall be entitled to 
unilaterally withdraw from the Contract with immediate  
effect . The right to unilateral withdraw al pursuant  to this 
Article shall not be affected by a possible prior 
accept ance  of a delayed partial delivery without any 
reservation.  
 
If it becomes plausible  during the performance term that 
the Supplier will not be able to provide timely and proper 
Order performance , the Customer shall be  entitled to 
take,  at Supplier’s expense and risk , any necessary 
measures to prevent imminent performance delay. In 
case of performance delay, the Customer shall have  the 
right to order goods and services from a third party  at the 
cost of the Supplier, irrespective of Supplier ’s 
responsibility for the delay . 
 
5.6. In case of early delivery/performance, the Customer shall 
have the right to reimbursement of possible costs 
incurred therewith, such as storage costs, insurance 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  3 of 16 costs etc.  Early delivery shall have in no case any impact 
on terms of payment as set forth in the Article 7.2. In case 
of early delivery, the Customer’s liability for damage or 
accidental loss of prematurely delivered goods shall be, 
until the agreed delivery time, limited to the liability of the 
custodian/depositary.  
 
 
5.7. The Supplier agrees to submit its financial and 
independent credit reports at the request of SIEMENS 
ENERGY (for example “D&B”, BON -2, commercial bank 
certificates, etc.) to monitor creditworthiness. If 
SIEMENS ENERGY determines, based on the submitted 
or publicly available information, that there has been a 
significant change in creditworthiness, if bankruptcy or 
liquidation proceedings have been initiated against the 
Supplier, if th ere is a change in the Supplier 's ownership 
structure, or if the Supplier refuses to provide the 
requested information, SIEMENS ENERGY has the right 
to cancel the agreement in whole or in part without any 
consequences. The Supplier must immediately inform  
SIEMENS ENERGY about any such circumstances.  
 
5.8. In the case of deliveries involving erection or installation 
and in the case of services, the risk passes upon 
acceptance (for the aforementioned deliveries, the risk 
passes upon completion of the erection or installation); 
for deliveries not involving ere ction or installation the  risk 
passes upon receipt by SIEMENS ENERGY at the place 
of destination. If the registered office of the Supplier and 
the place of delivery are within the EU, DDP (place of 
destination) Incoterms® 2020 shall apply. If in this case 
delivery to construction sites or directly to third parties is 
agreed, the Supplier shall bear the costs and risk of 
unloading the goods. If the registered office of the 
Supplier or the place of delivery are outside the EU, DAP 
(place of destination) Incot erms® 2020 shall apply. If in 
this case delivery to construction sites or directly to third 
parties is agreed, DPU (place of destination) Incoterms® 
2020 shall apply.  
 
5.9. Partial as well as over -deliveries and under -deliveries 
are only permissible after obtaining Customer ’s express 
written approval  in advance . Goods are delivered to the 
goods receiving department of the place designated for 
delivery at the times agreed for the receipt of goods in 
the order. Each delivery shall be accompanied by a 
delivery note detailing the net weight per item and the 
complete purchase order number and the delivery 
address.  
 
5.10.  The Supplier shall duly comply with all requests by the 
Customer concerning  packing, mode of transportation, 
freight forwarding  and dispatching . If the transport ation  
costs are borne by the Customer and no particular mode 
of transportation  was requested , the one involving the 
lowest possible costs shall be preferred.  If the Supplier 
fails to comply with the provisions above, all costs 
exceeding the indispensable costs shall be borne by the 
Supplier .The Supplier shall be liable for any damages 
incurred due t o non -compliance with the Customer’s 
instructions . Additional cost arising from the need to 
meet the delivery date by way of expedited shipment 
shall be borne by the Supplier. Should the agreed 
payment instruments (e.g. letter of credit) and shipping 
documents, in particular purchase order data, be missing  
or incomplete, SIEMENS ENERGY shall be entitled to 
refuse acceptance at the Supplier’s cost and risk.  
 5.11.  Direct deliveries/supplies to Customer’s clients on behalf 
of the Customer shall be effected  in neutral packaging, 
fitted with neutral package labels and accompanied by 
neutral consignment documents. The Supplier shall 
provide the Customer with a copy of the delivery note or 
other receipt document .  
 
5.12.  Retention of title of whatsoever nature by the Supplier is 
invalid.  
 
5.13.  Where prices are quoted without packaging, packaging 
shall be charged at cost price and stated separately in 
the invoices. Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the 
value of packaging material returned by SIEMENS 
ENERGY to the Supplier for reuse shall be  reimbursed 
by the Supplier. The Supplier shall be liable to the 
Customer for any damages incurred due to improper 
packaging. When delivering dangerous or hazardous 
goods, the Supplier shall fully comply with all applicable 
legislation, in particular requi rements concerning the 
type and labelling of packaging as well as the mode of 
transportation.  
 
5.14.  For the performance of works and services under this 
contract the Contractor shall only use employees who 
are not listed in the relevant national, European and US -
American sanctions lists based on foreign trade 
legislation.  
 
5.15.  The Supplier must perform the works by himself. The 
Supplier may delegate works in partial to a third party (i.e. 
subcontractor or vicarious agents). The third party 
performing such works must be approved in writing by 
SIEMENS ENERGY before such assignment. The 
Supplier must notify SIEMENS ENERGY in writing of any 
involvement of a further third party and provide all 
documents required to approve respective third party.  
 
6. Suspension of Purchase Order , 
Cancellation  
 
6.1. The C ustomer shall have  the right to demand suspen sion 
of Order performance at any time . In the event that the 
suspension exceeds the duration of three months , the 
Supplier shall be  entitled to claim the reimbursement of 
costs incurred beyond the lapse of three months. The 
Customer shall reimburse the costs incurred due to the 
suspension exclusively on the basis of a detailed list of 
costs and respective evidence thereof, furnished by the 
Supplier and confirmed by the Customer. The Customer 
shall not be held liable for damage s incurred by the 
Supplier on account of suspension  in any case . 
 
6.2. SIEMENS ENERGY reserves the right to withdraw from 
the contract, as a whole or in part, irrespective of any 
fault on the part of the Supplier. In such a case, the 
Supplier is only entitled to charge SIEMENS ENERGY 
for the services proved to have been perfo rmed by the 
date of withdrawal, minus all possible gains and savings 
arising out of or relating to the withdrawal.  
 
6.3. SIEMENS ENERGY also reserves the right to vary the 
scope of supply or services. The Supplier is entitled to a 
corresponding adjustment in the contract price.  
 
7. Contract Price and Terms of Payment  
 
7.1. The Contract Price and the payment term shall be 
stipulated  in the offer, order or agreement, respectively. 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  4 of 16 Contract Price shall be the entire amount to be paid by 
the Customer pursuant to the Contract . It shall include 
VAT and all expenses borne by the Customer ; the tax 
and individual expenses (e. g. packing and packagin g, 
transport, organi sed by Supplier , insurances , etc.) must 
be invoice d as separate items in such a way that their 
height is disclosed . Unless agreed  otherwise,  the 
Contract Price shall include the costs of packing and 
packaging . The Supplier shall reimburse the Customer 
the value of the returned reusable packaging, unless 
otherwise agreed . 
 
7.2. The period of payment commences to run after the 
unconditional acceptance of the entire Order  (Chapter 8) 
and reception of correctly issued invoice  (Chapter  9). 
 
7.3. Unless otherwise agreed in writing , the payment term 
shall be 60 days  net or within 30 days minus the discount 
of 3% on the Contract Price at Customer’s choice . In the 
event that the deliveries or services performed are 
defect,  Customer  shall be entitled to withhold the entire 
payment free of interest until their full rectification . 
 
7.4. Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the  Customer shall 
be entitled to withhold free of interest up to 10 % of the 
Contract Price for the duration of the warranty or liability 
for material defects period  as a security deposit for any 
warranty claims the Customer may have. Full payment 
of the Contract Price shall not represent an  
acknowledgement that the Order was performed duly 
and in accordance with the Contract ; neither does it 
constitute a waiver of any warranty or liability claims.  
 
7.5. The place of payment shall be the seat of the Customer. 
The p ayment shall be considered completed in time 
provided the Customer makes the remittance order no 
later than on the due date of payment. The charges  of 
the receiving bank shall be borne by the Supplier.  If, for 
any reason, an agreed security is not (or no longer) 
available, the Supplier is obliged to provide SIEMENS 
ENERGY with an equivalent one. In the case of advance 
payment, Supplier is obliged on request of SIEMENS 
ENERGY and before advance payment is executed, to 
provide Advance Payment Guarantee issued by eligible 
first-class bank, as irrevocable, unconditional and on first 
demand.  
 
7.6. SIEMENS ENERGY is entitled to set off claims of its 
affiliated companies against the Supplier’s claims. 
SIEMENS ENERGY is entitled to set off claims it may 
have against the Supplier against claims the Supplier 
has against SIEMENS ENERGY.  
 
7.7. If the Supplier’s bank account number has been entered 
in the relevant Customer’s systems, yet an invoice 
indicates a different bank account number, the Supplier 
shall be required to submit a bank statement confirming 
that the Supplier is the holder of thi s new bank account. 
The payment term shall be suspended until such an 
official confirmation is submitted to the Customer.  
 
 
 
8. Acceptance  
 
8.1. The r isk of accidental loss or damage shall pass from the 
Supplier to the Customer upon acceptance of the 
deliveries and/or services.  
 8.2. Taking possession of the deliveries , temporary use of 
deliveries or services, or payments made shall not 
constitute acceptance according to this Chapter  or 
waiver of rights by the Customer.  The delivery receipts 
issued by the Customer’s department that is the recipient 
of the goods shall not constitute the final acceptance of 
the delivered goods by the Customer.  
 
8.3. The Customer shall have the right to refuse the 
acceptance of the entire Order if its performance does 
not comply with Articles  in Chapter 5 or other  conditions 
stipulated in this Chapter  are not met .  
 
8.4. The d elivery of goods shall be deemed completed when 
the goods are handed over to the designated person, at 
the designated place , in the agreed manner and the 
delivery note or other receipt document is confirmed in 
writing.  Thereby, goods shall be considered accepted .  
 
8.5. Each consignment shall be accompanied by a 
corresponding delivery note or other receipt document 
containing all mandatory invoice information pursuant to 
Article 9.1.; otherwise, the Customer shall have the right 
to reject acceptance of the goods at Supplier's costs and 
risk. The Customer shall also have the right to reject 
acceptance of the goods at Supplier’s cost and risk if the 
agreed payment instruments (e.g. letter of credit) turn out 
to be missing or prove to be incomplete, the consignment 
documents (consignment note) are  not submitted in the 
required number of copies , and especially if the 
document ation  fails to contain O rder details required to 
be reported to the Customer.   
 
8.6. Service Performance shall be deemed completed when 
the Customer conducts all contractual obligation and 
both parties sign an Acceptance record in writing. When 
Service performance forms part of a Final Customer's 
concrete Order, Acceptance shall be deemed completed 
together with the Acceptance by the Final Customer.  
 
 
8.7. If it was agreed that the Supplier shall perform material 
tests, provide test records, quality control proofs, quality 
certificates, certificates of conformity or any other 
documentation, the goods cannot not be deemed 
accepted prior to the submission of s uch documentation, 
unless the parties have explicitly agreed otherwise in 
writing. Supplier’s warranty obligations and liability for 
defects shall remain unaffected by this provision.  
 
 
 
9. Invoice   
 
9.1. Invoice must be specified in accordance with Article  7.1. 
(Contract Price) and include all purchase order details . 
Furthermore, it shall contain a detailed des cription of the 
consignment contents and/or provided services as well 
as the complete order number. Invoices must be 
submitted immediately after Customer’s acceptance of 
delivery of goods or of completion of services. Invoices 
may be submitted in PDF form to: 
gp.448x.si@siemens.com . It is not possible to send 
additional attachments or data in the message to the 
previously mentioned address. The invoice with 
attachments must be sent in one PDF document, which 
does not exceed the message size of 15 MB. The 
electronic message must not be  encrypted or digitally 
signed.  
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  5 of 16 Copy invoices must be marked as duplicates. Invoices 
shall be worded and structured to facilitate both their 
comparison with the order and their auditing. Each 
invoice must show the purchase order number and the 
purchase order data. Invoices relating to de liveries of 
goods must be accompanied by delivery notes confirmed 
by SIEMENS ENERGY. Invoices relating to services and 
installation performed shall be accompanied by records 
of working hours and the acceptance protocol confirmed 
by SIEMENS ENERGY. Invoices  relating to goods 
requiring export authorisations shall list all marking 
requirements fulfilled. Invoices subject to international 
trade in goods must contain a description, quantity, 
customs -tariff-code and net weight of goods by item.  
 
 
 
9.2. The Supplier must provide the PIN (OIB) before creating 
the purchase order, and at the latest before issuing the 
invoice, and the PIN (OIB) must be indicated on the 
invoice. All mandatory components of the invoice must 
be listed on the invoice in accordanc e with the applicable 
Slovenian legislation and regulations. Invoices on which 
a PIN (OIB) or other mandatory components are not 
indicated shall be considered invalid and will be returned 
to the Supplier, and it shall be considered that the invoice 
has not  even been submitted and the deadline for 
payment of the invoice has not started to run.  If the 
Supplier’s main office is within the EU, the Supplier must 
provide the  PIN (OIB)  number not later than the invoice. 
If the Supplier does not have an PIN (OIB), the Supplier 
is obliged to submit an Excerpt from the registration court 
of the Supplier's country of residence and other 
appropriate documentation prescribed by law and all th e 
above provisions of this Section for PIN (OIB) apply.  
 
 
9.3. Customer shall have the right to reject all invoices that 
fail to comply with the requirements set forth in this 
Chapter . In such case, the invoices shall be considered 
as not issued and the period of payment as not having 
commenced  to run . Electronic invoices will only be 
accepted if forwarded to SIEMENS ENERGY via EDI.  
 
9.4. The Supplier is not entitled to set off claims it may have 
against SIEMENS ENERGY against claims SIEMENS 
ENERGY has against the Supplier.  
 
 
10. Quality Assurance, Safety and Compliance 
of Goods and Services with Legislation   
 
10.1.  The delivered goods and services must be of first-class 
quality, fit for intended purpose, made of state -of-the-art 
materials, professionally manufactured and/or 
performed, comply with underlying technical drawings, 
appropriately constructed, professionally manufactured , 
and faultlessly assembled  and installed . 
 
10.2.  Upon request, t he Supplier shall serve the Customer with 
proof s of Supplier’s quality control system as well as any 
and all documentation related to or associated with 
quality control inspections. The Customer shall have the 
right to audit the aforementioned documentation at the 
Supplier’s premises. The Supplier shall reimburse 
Customer the costs of such audit in case deficiencies in 
quality control system or quality control documentation 
are established.  
 10.3.  Supplie r shall ensure that all delivered goods and 
materials comply  with regulation of the European Union , 
in particular : a) REACH (Registration, Evaluation, 
Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances – 
Regulation  1907/2006/EC and Directive  2006/121/EC 
with amendments ), b) RoHS ( Restriction of the Use of 
Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment  – Directive  2002/95/EC with 
amendments ), c) on batteries and accumulators and 
waste batteries and accumulators  (Directive  2006/66/EC 
with amendments ) and d) WEEE (Waste Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment - Directive 2012/19/EC with 
amend ments ). 
 
10.4.  The Supplier shall provide all necessary data and 
information in accordance with the EU Carbon Border 
Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) statutory regulations in 
a timely manner upon request of Customer in order to 
meet the Customer´s external obligations. CBAM l atest 
developments as well as guidance can be accessed on 
the official Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism 
Website; currently available under the following link: 
Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (europa.eu).  
 
10.5.  Moreover, Supplier shall ensure that all delivered goods 
and materials comply with the legislation o f the Republic 
of Slovenia governing  packag ing and packaging waste  
handling  (Decree on packaging and packaging waste 
handling, Official Gazette of the RS No. 84/2006 with 
amendments ), management  of batteries and 
accumulators  (Decree on the management of batteries 
and accumulators and waste batteries and 
accumulators, Official Gazette of the RS No. 3/2010 with 
amendments ),  waste electrical and electronic equipment  
handling  (Decree on the waste electrical and electronic 
equipment, Official Gazette of the RS No. 107/06 with 
amendments ) and that all delivered goods and materials 
are free of asbestos .  
 
10.6.  The delivered  goods , equipment and installations shall 
be equipped with safety mechanisms compliant with 
regulatory requirements and meet safety regulations 
valid at the Place of Use. All delivered goods , equipment 
and installations  must be accompanied  with a 
corresponding Certificate of Conformity. If so required by 
applicable legislation , the goods, equipment and 
installations shall also be fitted with a »CE« label . 
Notwithstanding any statutory requirements concerning 
notification and/or reporting duties , the Supplier shall 
furnish to the Customer all necessary information on the 
delivered  goods and/or rendered services, requisite for 
safe handling therewith and storage thereof, particularly 
instructions on appropriate storage , and safety 
specifications set forth  by Regulation  1907/2006/EC with 
amendmen ts. The Supplier shall timely  inform the 
Customer of any changes in production materials, 
manufacturing procedures, suppliers of 
semimanufactures  and Certificates of Conformity . If the 
Orders comprise of equipment or other devices requiring 
assembly or installation, or if this is statutorily required in 
other cases, the Supplier shall provide the Customer with 
documentation, including but not limited to, 
assembly/installation/mounting  instructions, modification 
instructions,  use and  maintenance instructions, lists of 
spare and/or consumable parts , etc., to wit in necessary 
extent and customary scope . All labels and use and 
maintenance instructions shall be , if not agreed 
otherwise in writing,  in Slovene language and upon 
Customer's request in other languages as well.  
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  6 of 16  
11. Warranty , Liability for Material Defects  
 
11.1.  The Customer shall have the right and duty to verify the 
adequacy and completeness of the deliveries and/or 
service performance , and inspec t the latter for possible 
material detect s, within reasonable time after completion 
of delivery and/or service performance  and Supplier ’s 
notification thereof .  
If, after receipt of the goods, a defect is identified that 
could not be detected by the usual inspection upon 
receipt of the goods, SIEMENS ENERGY reserves the 
rights against the Supplier based on such material and/or 
legal defects for the entire period o f liability for material 
defects or liability under the commercial guarantee. 
When justified by the circumstances of the case, 
SIEMENS ENERGY shall be authorized to conduct only 
a random check and verification of a part of the delivered 
goods as a represen tative sample. If it is established that 
parts of the delivered goods or services (both in case of 
a check of the entire delivery and a random check) do 
not comply with Cutomer ’s requirements or contain 
material and/or legal defects, SIEMENS ENERGY shall 
always be entitled to reject the delivered goods or 
services as a whole, and not just the part containing the 
said defects. SIEMENS ENERGY shall notify the 
Supplier of any defec ts detected as soon as possible. 
This Article shall apply to the delivery of ser vices mutatis 
mutandis.  
 
 
11.2.  The Supplier is required to carry out an adequate 
inspection of the components provided (e.g. raw 
materials, building materials) by SIEMENS ENERGY 
from upstream suppliers, producers and other third 
parties upon receipt in order to determine any apparent 
or hidden defects, and to notify the SIEMENS ENERGY 
and the respective supplier, producer and other third 
party of such defects without delay.  
 
11.3.  The Supplier shall be liable to SIEMENS ENERGY for 
material defects in fulfilling the Supplier's obligations 
without any restrictions. Material defects are considered 
to exist:  
1) if the subject of delivery does not correspond to the 
description, type, quantity and quality, or it does not have 
the functionality, compatibility, interoperability and other 
features as determined in the sales contract,  
 
2) if the subject of delivery is not suitable for any special 
purpose for which SIEMENS ENERGY needs it and of 
which SIEMENS ENERGY informed the Supplier at the 
latest at the time of concluding the contract and in 
relation to which the Supplier gave his co nsent,  
 
3) if the subject of delivery is not delivered with all 
additional equipment and instructions, including 
installation instructions, as specified in the sales 
contract,  
 
4) if the subject of delivery has not been delivered with 
updates as specified in the sales contract,  
 
5) if the subject of delivery is not suitable for use for the 
purposes for which a subject of delivery of the same type 
would normally be used, taking into account the 
regulations of the European Union and Slovenia , 
technical standards or, if such technical standards do not 
exist, applicable codes of conduct if they exist,   
6) if the subject of delivery does not correspond to the 
quality and description of the sample or model that the 
Supplier made available to SIEMENS ENERGY before 
concluding the contract,  
 
7) if the subject of delivery is not supplied with additional 
equipment, including packaging, installation instructions 
or other instructions, the receipt of which SIEMENS 
ENERGY can reasonably expect,  
 
8) if the subject of delivery does not correspond to the 
quantity or does not have the properties and other 
characteristics, including those related to durability, 
functionality, compatibility and safety, which are common 
for a subject of delivery of the s ame type and which 
SIEMENS ENERGY can reasonably expect with regard 
to the nature of the subject of delivery and taking into 
account any public statements made by the Supplier or 
other persons in previous stages of the transaction chain, 
including the manu facturer, or made on their behalf, in 
particular in advertising or labelling,  
 
9) if the subject of delivery is incorrectly installed or 
assembled, and the installation or assembly service 
forms part of the sales contract and was performed by 
the Supplier or the person for whom the Supplier is 
responsible, or  
 
10) if the subject of delivery which was to be installed or 
assembled by SIEMENS ENERGY is improperly 
installed or assembled, and the improper installation or 
assembly is the result of a lack of instructions provided 
by the Supplier.  
 
Within the meaning of the provisions of this article, the 
“subject of delivery” shall be considered as both goods 
and services.  
 
11.4.  When the Order items are ordered for a particular project 
or for a particular end recipient and a) it would be 
unreasonable to expect from the Customer to check and 
test the deliveries and/or services before their use (e. g. 
packaging opening before the de liveries reache the 
Place of Use) or b) it is not possible to check and test the 
deliveries and/or services before commissioning the 
entire system (e. g. the Order is not independently fully 
functional), the Customer shall inspect the deliveris 
and/or serv ices as soon as reasonable (in case a) or 
possible (in case b).  
 
11.5.  The Customer shall have the right to enforce liability for 
patent material defects in spite of possible acceptance.  
 
11.6.  The warranty and liability period for the Ordered items 
shall be three years. In case of defect rectification by way 
of repair or substitution, the warranty and liability period 
for the rectified parts shall commence  to run anew.  
 
11.7.  Unless specifically  agreed  otherwise , the warranty and 
liability period shall commence  to run with the 
acceptance  of deliveries and/or services  (Chapter 8). 
When the Order  items are ordered  for a particular project  
and it is not specifically agreed otherwise, the warra nty 
and liability period for the Order  items shall not expire 
prior to the expiration of Customer’s warranty or liability 
vis-à-vis the end-customer . 
  
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  7 of 16 11.8.  The Supplier shall be fully  liable for the conduct of his 
subsuppliers and subcontractors , i. e. as if he perform ed 
the Order himself .  
 
11.9.  If defects  are detected within the warranty or liability 
period, the Supplier shall immediately, at its own cost 
and at Customer's discretion either: a) rectify the defects 
at the Place of Use or b) provide re -performance of 
services or collection of deliveries at the Place of Use, 
their replacement and return to the Place of Use 
(Rectification).  The Customer shall in any case be 
entitled to reimbursement of any costs incurred in 
connection with rectification of defects ( e. g. assembl y, 
disassembl y, inspection, testing , traveling and 
transportation costs,  etc.) as well as  to reimbursement of 
all damages incurred due to defects  and in relation to 
their elimination.  
 
11.10.  In exceptional cases , that is  if: a) the Supplier fails to 
rectify defects within reasonable time period , set forth by 
the Customer , or b) the Customer is likely to get in delay  
with regard to deliveries and/or service performance for 
third parties  due to untimely defect rectification, or  c) it 
becomes obvious from the circumstances that the 
Supplier will either not be able to or does not intend to 
rectify the defects within the set time period , the 
Customer shall have the right to rectify or have the 
defects rectified at the Supplier’s cost himself, without 
previous notice and without granting the Supplier an 
additional grace period. The Supplier shall reimburse the 
Customer all costs incurred with such defect rectification, 
even in case they exceed the costs that would have been 
incurred had the rectification been performed by the 
Supplier.  Supplier’s liability f or damages in case of defect 
rectification performed by the Customer pursuant to this 
Article shall remain unaffected.  
 
11.11.  The Customer shall have the right to choose between the 
warranty or liability -for-defects claims at his discretion.  
Claims on one legal ground do not exclude subsequent 
claims on alternative legal ground.  
 
11.12.  Insofar the Supplier  insured  the Order performance or 
compliance with the agreement (e. g. performance, 
rectification of defect s, etc.) with an insurance instrument 
(e. g. bank bond, bill of exchange,  etc.), the Customer 
shall have the right to call it if the Supplier  fails to comply 
with the agreement in spite of a reasonable grace period 
given by the Customer.  
 
 
12. Materials Provided by the Customer  
 
12.1.  Any materials  (including parts ) provided by the Customer 
to the Supplier for the purpose of performing the Order 
remain the property of the Customer and shall be stored, 
labelled and administered separately  at the cost of the 
Supplier . The risk of accidental  loss or  damage shall be 
borne by the Supplier as long as the materials are at his 
disposal , until the acceptance by the Customer . Upon 
request, the Supplier shall confirm the acceptance of 
Customer’s materials. Customer’s materials shall only be 
used for the purpose of fulfilling the Customer’s Order. In 
the event of reduction of its value or loss of the materials, 
the Supplier shall provide adequate replacement and/or 
monetary compensation . Any claims by the Supplier for 
compensation due to delayed delivery of such materials 
as well as the Supplier’s right of retention shall be 
excluded.    
13. Special provisions for planning activities  
 
13.1.    Any and all  documentation, such as plans, drawings, 
and models shall become the property of SIEMENS 
ENERGY, even if the contract should be terminated 
prematurely and shall be handed over to SIEMENS 
ENERGY upon request. The Supplier shall grant to 
SIEMENS ENERGY an ex clusive and transferable 
exploitation right for all usage categories that is 
unlimited in time and place and also excludes the 
Supplier itself from using without claim for additional 
remuneration, same applies for works resulting from 
this contract. SIEMEN S ENERGY thus is entitled to  
exploit, by means of implementation of the respective 
plans, or otherwise use said plans and other 
documentation in their original form or after 
modification without any further participation or 
approval by the Supplier.  
 
 
14. Hardware and Software   
 
14.1.  Unless stipulated otherwise in the order or in the 
agreement , hardware and software shall be deemed an 
inseparable unit.  
 
14.2.  If the Supplier is to deliver software that has not been 
developed specifically for the Customer, the Customer 
shall be granted a non-exclusive , transferable and 
territor ially unlimited license to exploit and use the 
software  for all purposes . The licence shall not be limited 
in time if the payment was agreed in lump sum  or in 
installments . If the Supplier is to deliver software that has 
been developed specifically for the Customer, the 
Customer shall be granted an exclusive, transferrable, 
territor ially and time ly unlimited license  to exploit and use 
the software  for all purposes . Installation of the software 
shall be provided for by the Supplier.   
 
14.3.  Unless agreed  otherwise , the Supplier shall make 
available to the Customer the latest installation version 
of the software  on a portable data carrier, readable on 
the Customer’s computer system, and furthermore 
provide all pertaining documentation from which, inter 
alia, contents and structure of the data carrier, program 
and data flowcharts, testing procedures  and programs , 
error control  protocol,  etc. are apparent . If the supplied 
software contains open source software, the Supplier 
shall provide to the Custo mer: a) information on software 
parts that are subject to open source software license, b) 
names and conditions of applicable open source 
software licenses, and c) source code of the relevant 
portions of the softwarein its current version, if the 
disclosur e is required by the applicable open source 
software license. The Supplier shall be l iable for all 
damages incurred by the Customer due to non -
compliance with provisions of this Article.  
 
14.4.  The Ordered items shall not be deemed accepted until 
the Supplier provides the Customer with user and open 
source software documentation in Slovene or English 
language, and upon Customer's request in other 
languages as well.  
 
14.5.  Software developed specifically for the Customer shall 
be fit for accept ance only if during a trial period not 
shorter than four weeks , the software satisfactorily 
operated according to the agreed specifications  and 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  8 of 16 without errors.  In doubt, the trial period shall commence 
to run with the beginning of the commercial use of the 
software by the Customer or the end consumer, 
whichever of these  events  occurs later.  For using 
software during the trial period, the Customers shall not 
be required to pay any license or other fees . 
 
14.6.  Within the warranty period, t he Supplier shall provide the 
Customer free of charge with all updates of the software. 
Furthermore, the Supplier shall ensure availability of 
maintenance for the supplied software for a period of at 
least five years after the acceptance at conditions  not 
worse than prevailing market  conditions .  
 
14.7.  The Supplier shall inform SIEMENS ENERGY - at the 
latest at the time of order confirmation - whether the 
products and services to be delivered contain open -
source components. In the context of this provision 
“open -source components” means any software, 
hardware or other information that is provided royalty -
free by the respective licensor to any user on the basis 
of a license with the right to modify and/or to distribute 
(e.g., GNU General Public License (GPL), the GNU 
Lesser GPL (LGPL), or the MIT License).   
 
14.8.  Should the Supplier not at all or too late inform that its 
products and services contain open -source software, 
SIEMENS ENERGY is entitled to cancel the order. The 
Supplier is then also obliged to indemnify and hold 
SIEMENS ENERGY harmless.  
 
14.9.  Should the products and services delivered by the 
Supplier contain open -source components, the Supplier 
shall comply with all applicable open -source license 
terms and shall grant all those rights to SIEMENS 
ENERGY and provide all information which SIEMENS 
ENERGY needs in order to comply itself with the 
applicable license terms. In particular, the Supplier must 
deliver to SIEMENS ENERGY promptly after the order is 
confirmed the following:  
 
-The complete source code of the relevant open source 
software, including scripts and information regarding its 
generating environment insofar as the applicable open 
source conditions require this.  
-A schedule of all open source files used, indicating the 
relevant license, its version and including a copy of the 
complete text of such license and including a reference 
to copyright and/or author -ship. Such schedule must 
have an understandable structure  and contain a table of 
contents.  
 
14.10.  The Supplier shall inform SIEMENS ENERGY - at the 
latest at the time the order is confirmed - whether any 
open source licenses used by the Supplier will – within 
their intended use - be subject to a “Copyleft Effect“ 
which will affect the products of SIEME NS ENERGY. In 
the context of this provision, “Copyleft Effect“ means that 
the provisions of the open source license require that 
certain of the Supplier’s products, as well as any 
products derived from these, may only be distributed 
further in accordance w ith the terms of the open source 
license e.g. only if the source code is disclosed.  
 
14.11.  Should the Supplier not indicate until receipt of the order 
that its products and services contain open -source 
components or whether the described “Copyleft Effect“ 
would occur, then SIEMENS ENERGY is entitled to cancel the order within 14 (fourteen) days upon receipt 
of this information.  
 
 
  
15. Accessories , Intellectual Property Rights  
 
15.1.  By the  acceptance , the Supplier shall provide the 
Customer free of charge  with all  technical documentation  
and specifications o f the delivered goods and/or services  
performed . Any tools, moulds, samples , profiles, 
drawings, technical specification sheets, printing 
templates and similar materials (hereinafter refer red to 
as: Accessories ), provided by the Customer for the 
purpose of performing the Order, remain the property of 
Customer ; without a prior written permission, they shall 
not be made available to any third parties or used for 
purposes other than performing the Order . The foregoing 
shall mutatis mutandis also apply to any products 
manufactured by using such Accessories. The title to any 
Accessories fabricated  or obtained  at Customer’s costs  
shall pass to the latter upon payment.   
 
15.2.  All Accessories shall be appropriately labelled as 
Customers’ property and adequately protected against 
access or use by unauthorised third parties. The Supplier 
shall adequate ly maint ain and renew the A ccessories , so 
as to preserve their original functionality  intact . After 
fulfilment of the Order as well as in case of cancellation  
of the Order, the A ccessories shall be returned to the 
Customer. Notwithstanding any other rights, the 
Customer shall have the right to request the return of the 
Accessories  at any time, particularly if the Supplier does 
not comply with the provisions of this Chapter or 
encounters production impediments. Supplier’s right of 
retention with regard to  the Accessories  shall be 
excluded.  
 
15.3.  The Supplier shall obtain all necessary industrial permits  
and other authori sations as required by law to ensure 
performance  of the Order under the agreed conditions. 
Upon request, t he Supplier shall provide to the Customer 
all documentation  pertaining thereto . Insofar the 
fulfilment of the Order is subject to specific permissions 
or approvals by public authorities, the Supplier shall 
acquire such in time and without any additional 
compensation .  
 
15.4.  All intellectual property rights on documentation and 
Accessories  shall always remain  with, or pass with the 
handover, respectively, to the Customer . Regarding 
reproduction, modification , distribution and other uses , 
the legislation on copyright and related rights and 
industrial  property rights  shall apply . 
 
 
16. Third Parties’ Claims  
 
16.1.  The Supplier shall ensure that all Order items are free of 
legal defects or shall take all appropriate measures to 
ensure that their use by Customer will not be impeded 
due to legal defects in any way, respectively . The 
Supplier shall avert any intellectual property disputes 
involving the Customer  and arising from the performance 
of the Order, actively cooperate in any proceedings 
against the Customer and indemnify and hold the 
Customer harmless from all consequences of such 
disputes. Notwithstanding any other obligations, the 
Supplier shall indemnify and hold the Customer harml ess 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  9 of 16 from any product liability claims raised against the 
Customer by any third party as a result of defects in 
products or services delivered  and/or performed  by the 
Supplier. In any case, the Supplier shall reimburse the 
Customer all expenses incurred with the defence against 
claims from this Article or compensation owed to third 
parties . Supplier shall also be entitled to claim the 
damages incurred due to legal defects associated with 
Order items. Customer for any damages arising thereof. 
The Supplier shall provide the Customer with a sufficient 
proof that adequate insurance against the 
aforementioned risks is ensured .  
 
16.2.  For a period of maximum 11 years after the completion 
of the (last)  delivery  and/or service performance , the 
Supplier shall immediately upon Customer’s request 
submit the names of all manufacturers, importers, 
subsuppliers or subcontractors involved or associated 
with the Order  performance . Furthermore, the Supplier 
shall also offer the Customer  adequate  assistance in 
case of any legal disputes concerning the Order items  as 
well as provide all relevant information needed for the 
defen ce against  product  liability claims, particularly all 
documentation pertaining to supplied goods (e. g. batch 
number of manufacture and delivery, time of production 
and/or delivery).  
 
17. Assignment  of Rights and Obligations  
 
17.1.  Without a prior written permission  of the Customer, the 
Supplier shall not be entitled to assign any of his rights 
or obligations arising from any agreement or individual 
order to third parties, pledge the m or make them the 
subject of any other legal transaction . A prior written 
approval shall also be required  in case the Supplier 
wishes to subcontract the performance of the Order in 
whole or in part  to a third party .  
 
17.2.  The Customer shall be entitled , upon a prior written 
notification, to assign  individual rights or duties from  the 
agreement with the Supplier or transfer the entire 
agreement to any other company of the Siemens Energy 
corporation. Such assignment shall be in effect after 
SIEMENS ENERGY informs the Supplier  about the 
assignment by a written notification. An express consent 
of the Supplier  shall not be required therefore . The 
Supplier shall not be entitled to withdraw from the 
agreement  in such case .  
 
18. Termination   
 
18.1.  If a unilateral right to terminate the Contract for 
convenience without stating the reason is agreed upon 
and no termination period is stipulated, the termination 
period shall be 60 days.   
 
18.2.  Either party may unilaterally withdraw from the Contract 
with immediate effect in case of:  
a) A winding -up, compulsory settlement or bankruptcy 
procedure is instituted or proposed against the 
opposite party . 
b) Legal changes  within the company that could affect 
the implementation of the agreement . 
c) Blockade  of the bank account of the opposite party . 
d) Violation of essential parts of the Contract . 
e) It is evident from the conduct of the opposite party or 
from the circumstances that she will not or will not 
be able to fulfil her contractual obligations . 
 18.3.  In addition  to reasons listed in Article  18.2., the Customer 
may also unilaterally withdraw from the Contract with an 
immediate effect in case the :  
a) Supplier is in delay with the delivery, namely under 
conditions as set out in Article  5.5.  
b) Supplier becomes associated with or merges with 
any company that is an immediate competitor of the 
Customer or such competitor gains a controlling  
share in  the Supplier or controlling rights with 
respect to the Supplier  in any other way . 
c) Supplier becomes insolvent.  
d) Customer conclude d the Contract with the Supplier 
in order to perform a specific order for the end 
customer , and the agreement between the 
Customer and the end customer is terminated  or 
ceases to be valid .  
 
18.4.  The termination or withdrawal notice shall be sent to the 
opposite party with registered mail. If a unilateral right to 
terminate the Contract for convenience without stating 
the reason is agreed upon, the termination period shall 
commence on the day the mail is sent off.  
 
18.5.  Cessation of validity  of the agreement , irrespective  of the 
cause , shall not affect the validity of Orders  that were 
already confirmed , unless they were explicitly cancelled . 
With respect to the cancelled Orders, the Supplier s hall 
be entitled to payment for those parts of Orders that have 
evidently already been performed until the day of 
cessation of validity of the Contract. The Supplier shall in 
no case be entitled to compensation for lost profit or 
reliance damages. In the final settlement of accounts, all 
actual and eventual advantages Supplier had or may 
have had in connection with the withdrawal shall be 
taken into account. Upon receipt of the notice of 
withdrawal, the Supplier shall strive with the diligence of 
a good manager to minimize any costs incurred due to  
the withdrawal.    
 
18.6.  In case of withdrawal pursuant to the Article  18.3., the 
Customer shall be  entitled to restitution of all incurred 
costs, including those incurred with the withdrawal  itself 
(e. g. costs and damages  incurred by potential 
Customer's buyers , costs of the premature end of usage 
of fittings and equipment , etc.). Apart from the restitution 
of costs, the Supplier shall be  entitled to compensation 
for all damages incurred due to the withdrawal , to wit  
according to the valid laws.  
 
 
19. Cybersecurity  
 
19.1.  The Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and 
technical measures to ensure the confidentiality, 
authenticity, integrity and availability of Supplier 
Operations as well as products and services. These 
measures shall be consistent with good industry practice 
and shall include an appropriate information security 
management system consistent with standards such as 
ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable).  
 
19.2.  “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes and 
systems (including information   systems), data (including 
customer data), personnel, and sites, used or processed 
by the  Supplier from time to time in the performance of 
this contract.  
19.3.  Should products or services contain software, firmware, 
or chipsets:  
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  10 of 16 • the Supplier shall implement appropriate 
standards, processes and methods to prevent, 
identify, evaluate and repair any vulnerabilities, 
malicious code, and security incidents in 
products and services which shall be consistent 
with good industry practice a nd standards such 
as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent 
applicable);  
• the Supplier shall continue to support and 
provide services to repair, update, upgrade and 
maintain products and services including the 
provision of patches to the Customer remedying 
vulnerabilities for the reasonable lifetime of the 
products and services;  
• the Supplier shall provide to the Customer a bill 
of materials identifying all third -party software 
components contained in the products. Third -
party software shall be up -to-date at the time of 
delivery to the Customer;  
• the Supplier shall grant to the Customer the 
right, but the Customer shall not be obliged, to 
test or have tested products for malicious code 
and vulnerabilities at any time, and shall 
adequately support the Customer;  
• the Supplier shall provide the Customer a 
contact for all information security related 
issues (available during business hours).  
 
19.4.  The Supplier shall promptly report to the Customer all 
relevant information security incidents occurred or 
suspected and vulnerabilities discovered in any Supplier 
Operations, services and products, if and to the extent 
the Customer is or is likely to be m aterially affected.  
 
19.5.  The Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve 
that its subcontractors and Suppliers shall, within a 
reasonable time, be bound by obligations similar to the 
provisions of this section 19.  
 
19.6.  Upon the Customer’s request, the Supplier shall provide 
written evidence of its compliance with this section 19 
including generally accepted audit reports.  
 
 
 
20. Confidentiality , Personal Data  
 
20.1.  “Confidential Information” shall mean any information 
and data, including, but not limited to, any kind of 
business, commercial or technical information and data 
disclosed by the Customer to the Supplier, especially e. 
g. information on the Customer, offer , agreement, copy, 
abstract, draft, template, prototype, know -how, 
experience or parts of such data (hereinafter referred to 
a “Confidential Information ”).  
 
20.2.  All Confidential Information shall be used by the Supplier 
exclusively for the purpose of the Contract fulfilment and 
disclosed only to those employees who reasonably need 
to be acquainted with such information in order to be able 
to fulfil the Contract. T he Supplier shall protect 
Confidential Information against unauthorised access or 
use by third parties . 
 
20.3.  Confidential Information shall be kept confidential with 
the diligence of a good manager regardless if they were 
obtained in connection with the order or from another 
source, unless they are publicly known.  
 20.4.  No Confidential Information shall be disclosed to third 
parties or used for other purposes than Contract 
fulfilment without a prior written notice of the opposite 
party.  
 
20.5.  If the disclosure of Confidential Information to third 
parties or their use for a purpose other than the Contract 
fulfilment is granted or required in connection with the 
performance of the order, the disclosure shall only be 
made if the receiver (i. e. th e third party) is bound to 
confidentiality to an extent not less stringent than the 
obligations imposed in this Chapter.  
 
20.6.  The confidentiality principles set forth in Chapter  0. shall 
analogously also apply to personal data of the Customer 
or third persons and to confidential information pursuant 
to the laws governing banking and stocks business if 
such information is obtained by the Supplier within the 
scope of the order. The S upplier shall ensure all such 
data is handled pursuant to the laws on personal data 
and banking data protection.  
 
20.7.  Notwithstanding other provision of this Chapter, the 
Supplier shall be entitled to disclose or forward 
Confidential Information if so required by any ruling of a 
governmental or regulatory authority or court or by 
mandatory law. Such disclosure or forwardi ng shall be 
allowed provided that written notice thereof is given to the 
Customer without undue delay and provided all 
reasonable efforts are used to assure Confidential 
Information will be treated confidentially. Confidential 
Information disclosed pursuan t to this Article  must be 
marked as "Confidential"  or with any other comparable 
designation .  
 
20.8.  The Customer shall , as a rule , process the data on the 
Supplier from individual business events (such 
ascommercial register data, address, telephone as well 
as other information required for correspondence 
following from modern communication tools, contact 
persons, ordered goods, and supply volumes) 
automatically by employing information technology and 
only in connection with fulfilling of the respective Order , 
i. e. especially for administrative and accounting 
purposes. Due to logistical reasons , the Customer shall 
have the right to store the data on servers of other 
affiliated companies.  
 
20.9.  The Supplier expressly agrees that the data obtained 
from each business transaction and stored according to 
article 20.8 may be passed on to other companies 
affiliated to SIEMENS ENERG Y. 
 
20.10.  The Customer shall be entitled to share the data on the 
Supplier obtained within the course of conducting 
business or orders  performance  with other companies of 
the Siemens  Energy  corporation for the following 
purposes: a) information exchange (e. g. purchase 
pooling), b) reporting for statistical purposes, c) risk 
management. The Customer as well as other companies 
of the Siemens Energy corporation shall have  the right to 
dispatch to the Supplier information on Siemens  
Energy ’s portfolio and services, name ly in writing or via 
electronic mail, and contact him using any method of 
communication. The Customer shall cease with any such 
communication upon a written request by the Supplier.   
 
20.11.  The rights and obligations concerning Confidential 
Information as set forth herein shall survive the validity of 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  11 of 16 the Contract between the Customer and the Supplier, to 
wit regardless of the reason for termination, and shall 
remain valid as long as there is commercially viable 
interest for confidentiality of the data. The Supplier shall 
be liable to the Customer for a ny breach of obligation s 
mentioned  within this Chapter according to general rules 
on liability for damages.  
 
20.12.  The protection of personal data is very important to 
SIEMENS ENERGY.  Therefore, SIEMENS ENERGY 
processes personal data only in accordance with all 
applicable data protection and data security regulations. 
In the course of doing business with suppliers SIEMENS 
ENERGY processes personal data of contact persons at 
the Supplier , at interested parties (potential suppliers) or 
at other business partners. Details to the categories of 
the processed data, the purposes of the  processing and 
its legal grounds can be found in the Data Privacy Policy 
of Siemens Energy – available in detai l on the homepage   
           https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/general/privacy -notice.html  
 
 
 
 
21. Prohibition of Corruption and Anti -
corruption Clause   
 
21.1.  The Supplier shall notify the Customer no later than upon 
submission of his offer if the Supplier or members of his 
top management or board of directors had been 
convicted  by a final judgement for bribery of a public 
officer within a period of five years prior to the submission 
of the offer  to the Customer . The Supplier shall moreover 
notify the Customer without any delay if the Supplier or 
members of his top management or board of directors 
had been accused for bribery of a public officer at any 
time between the submission of the offer to the Customer 
and the acceptance of the Order items pursuant to 
Chapter 8. Such notification shall ensure compliance 
with the requirements laid down by the OECD 
Recommendation on Anti -corruption in relation to 
national export guarantees.  
 
21.2.  If the negotiations or the Contract itself can be linked to 
any form of corruptive conduct pursuant to the Slovenian 
anti-corruption legislation that has or could have 
influenced the conduct of the parties to the Contract, the 
Contracts  shall be deemed null and void.  
 
21.3.  In case corruptive conduct can be linked to the execution 
or supervision of the respective Contract, the innocent 
party may withdraw from the Contract before its 
expiration with an immediate effect and without any 
further obligations, including liability f or damages.   
 
22. Compliance With Export Control 
Regulations   
 
22.1.  The Customer shall not be obligated to fulfil his 
contractual commitments  if such fulfilment is prevented 
by any impediments arising out of national or 
international foreign trade or customs requirements or 
any embargoes or other sanctions.  
 
22.2.  For all Order items provided under this Contract , the 
Supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, 
customs and foreign trade regulations (“Foreign Trade 
Regulations”) . The Supplier shall also obtain all necessary export licenses, unless the Customer or any 
party other than Supplier is required to apply for the 
export licenses pursuant to the applicable Foreign Trade 
Regulations.  
 
In particular, Supplier represents and warrants that none 
of its Products nor its Services provided, contain 
products and/or services restricted for import under the 
FOREIGN TRADE REGULATIONS which, in any case, 
include the Council Regulations (EU) 833/201 4, 
692/2014, 2022/263 or 765/2006, each as amended, and 
import restrictions enforced by the U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection.  
 
 
22.3.  Supplier shall advise the Customer in writing as early as 
possible but not later than 1 week prior to the 
delivery /performance  date of any information and data 
required by the Customer to comply with all Foreign 
Trade Regulations for the Products and Services 
applicable in the countries of export and import as well 
as re -export in case of resale. In any case , the Supplier 
shall provide to the Customer for each Product and 
Service:  
 
a) the “Export Control Classification Number” pursuant 
to the U.S. Commerce Control List (ECCN) if the 
Product is subject to the U.S. Export Administration 
Regulations; and  
b) all applicable export list numbers; and  
c) the statistical commodity code according to the 
current commodity classification for foreign trade 
statistics and the HS (Harmonized System) Code , 
d) the country of o rigin (non -preferential origin),  and 
e) upon request of SIEMENS ENERGY: preferential  
origin declarations by the Supplier (in the case of 
European Suppliers) or other preferential 
certificates (in the case of non -European Suppliers) , 
f)     upon request of SIEMENS ENERGY: evidence of 
the country of origin of the iron and steel inputs used 
for the processing of products . 
 
 
22.4.  In case of any alterations of data from the previous 
Article, the Supplier  shall advise the Customer thereof as 
soon as possible, but no later than prior to  the 
delivery /performance  date. The Supplier shall be liable 
for any expenses and/or damage s incurred by the 
Customer due to the lack of , inaccuracy of or untimely 
submission of said Export Co ntrol and Foreign Trade 
Data  from this Chapter .  
 
 
23. Environmental Protection Relating to 
Products , Duty to Notify , Waste 
Management , Packaging   
 
23.1.  In case the supplied goods or its respective parts are 
subject to restricted traffic regime and/or distinct 
declaration regime (such as e. g. pursuant  to 
regulations REACH and RoHS), the Supplier shall 
declare all such goods in the web database BOM -
check ( www.BOMcheck.net ) or in another appropriate 
format, determined by the Customer. The respective 
declaration shall be accomplished no later than by the 
beginning of the delivery.  The foregoing shall only 
apply with respect to laws governing rest rictions and 
duties to declare which are applicable at the registered 
seat o f the Customer or at the P lace of Use.  
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  12 of 16  
23.2.  Furthermore,  the Supplier shall also mutatis mutandis 
declare  in the manner described above  all substances 
which are set out in the so -called “Siemens  Energy  list 
of declarable Substances” applicable at the time of 
delivery and available at the website:  
www.bomcheck.net/suppliers/restricted -and-
declarable -substances -list. 
 
23.3.  Notwithstanding any legal information duties, the 
Supplier shall provide SIEMENS ENERGY with all 
necessary and useful information pertinent to the goods 
and services to be delivered, in particular, information on 
proper storage as well as safety data sheet s in 
accordance with EU regulative applicable at the time of 
conclusion of the contract.  In addition, the Supplier shall 
raise SIEMENS ENERGY’ s attention to the possibility of 
hazardous waste or waste oils arising from the goods 
delivered by the Supplier a nd shall, in particular, advise 
SIEMENS ENERGY on their disposal . At Customer’s 
request  and according to the provisions of the applicable 
Slovenian waste management regulations , the Supplier 
shall assume free of charge any waste, generated by the 
intended use of the supplied goods. The responsibility for 
assuming such waste is limited to the quantities supplied 
by the Supplier. If the Supplier is unwilling or unable to 
assume the afo rementioned waste,  the Customer may 
do so at the Supplier’s costs. Waste ge nerated during the 
execution of works must be collected separately, waste 
disposals must be arranged for the separate collection of 
non- dangerous waste (metal, sheet metal, wood …) and 
be disposed of in the designated places for collection of 
certain type of waste. If occurrence of dangerous waste 
is predicted during the execution of the works, Supplier 
is obliged to provide the containers for disposal of it, in 
accordance with the  applicable regulations. Flammable 
waste must be in metal containers with lid s and away 
from flammable sources . 
 
23.4.  Should the delivery contain goods which – according to 
international regulations – are classified as dangerous 
goods, the Supplier shall inform SIEMENS ENERGY 
hereof in a form agreed upon between Supplier and 
SIEMENS ENERGY, but in no case later than the date 
of order confirmation.  
 
 
23.5.  When providing goods and services, the Supplier shall 
comply with all requirements of the EU Timber 
Regulation, which aim is to prohibit the placing of illegally 
harvested timber and timber products derived from such 
timber on the EU market. This includes e.g. all paper 
products, labels, brochures, etc. If nevertheless an 
import into the EU is seen as necessary the EU Timber 
Regulation Process Description applies.  
 
 
23.6.  The Supplier shall submit to the Customer a list of 
products that contain quicksilver, cadmium or lead 
according to the Supplier’s analyses and are hence 
subject to the aforementioned regulations (Articles 10.2. 
and 10.5.).  In the event of changes in levels of these 
substances in the goods , the  Supplier shall promptly  
update the list.  If the Order items contain such products, 
the Supplier shall submit to the Customer a copy of 
certificate demonstrating that he has been entered as the 
supplier of batteries and accumulators in the respective 
register at the ministry, competent for environment and 
spatial planning .  
23.7.  After the O rder is completed , the Supplier shall , at his 
own expense , remove and dispose of all transport, sale 
and service packaging.  At the end of the work, it is the 
obligation of the Supplier to clean the worksite, to 
dispose of any residual material and dispose waste in a 
legally prescribed manner. All costs for cleaning the 
construction site and eliminating or managing the waste 
is included in the agreed price. If Supplier fails to fulfil this 
obligation or is late in performing of it, SIEMENS 
ENERGY is entitled to perform the wor k at the Supplier 
's cost and will issue Invoice to Supplier with payment 
terms equivalent to payment terms which SIEMENS 
ENERGY has with Supplier in certain case.  
 
23.8.  In case of non -compliance with stipulations , in particular 
those set forth in Articles  10.2., 10.5., 22.2., 23.3., the 
Supplier shall appropriately comply  with Article  16.1. The 
compliance with provisions of Article 16.1. shall not affect 
his liability for damages , liability for legal and material 
defects or warranty  obligations . 
 
24. Corporate Responsibility in the Supply 
Chain   
 
24.1.  Supplier shall comply with the  laws of the applicable legal 
system(s) as well as the  principles and requirements of 
the “Siemens  Energy Code for  Suppliers and Third Party 
Intermediaries ” attached hereto as Appendix  No. 1 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Code of Conduct ”) and 
address these expectations to its own suppliers along its 
supply chain .  
 
24.2.  In particular, the Supplier  shall not engage, actively or 
passively, directly or indirectly, in any form of bribery, 
violation of basic human  rights of employees or any child 
labour , and the Supplier shall observe the stipulations of 
the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence Obligations 
in Supply Chains (Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz,  
LkSG ), to the extent applicable to the Supplier - and its 
own subsuppliers . In the case of cross -border 
assignments of employees, the Supplier has to observe 
all statutory regulations of the country of operation. In 
particular, the Supplier shall fulfill all statutory wage 
requirements as well as the wage requirements from all 
collective bargaining agreements, shall fulfill his statutory 
obligations to pay taxes and social insurance 
contributions, shall comply with all statutory and official 
requirements for work safety, and shall only use 
employees who have the necessary working per mits and 
have proper social security and accident insurance. In 
case of involvement of third parties and/or involvement 
of further third parties involved by these third parties, the 
Supplier equally ensures the compliance with these 
requirements. Upon requ est the Supplier has to provide 
to SIEMENS ENERGY with respective written proof of 
compliance with these obligations, by itself and the third 
party. The Supplier shall fully indemnify and hold 
harmless SIEMENS  ENERGY  from and against claims 
based on the in fringement of the obligations according to 
the article 16.1. by the Supplier  or third parties. 
Moreover, the Supplier  shall take responsibility for the 
health and safety of its employees at their workplace, act 
in accordance with the applicable environmental laws 
and make the best efforts to promote this Code of 
Conduct among its supplier s. 
 
24.3.  The Supplier shall act in accordance with the applicable 
environmental laws. He will take adequate measures to 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  13 of 16 avoid the deployment of so -called conflict minerals and 
to create transparency over the origin of raw materials 
and will use best efforts to promote this Code of Conduct 
among its suppliers.  
 
24.4.  The Supplier is obliged to comply with all legal 
requirements regarding the health and safety of its 
employees. It must ensure that the health and safety of 
its personnel as well as the personnel from his direct or 
indirect subcontractors employed to perfo rm the 
deliveries and services and all other persons who are 
entitled to stay in the work area, is protected.  
 
24.5.  The Supplier shall provide the necessary organizational 
instructions and take measures, particularly with regard 
to the following security: premises security, packaging 
and transport, business partner, personnel and 
information - in order to guarantee the security in the 
supply chain according to the requirements of respective 
internationally recognized initiatives based on the WCO 
SAFE Framework of Standards (e.g. AEO, C -TPAT). The 
Supplier shall protect the goods and services provided to 
SIEMENS ENERGY or  provided to third parties 
designated by SIEMENS ENERGY against unauthorized 
access and manipulation. The  Supplier shall only deploy 
reliable personnel for those goods and services and shall 
obligate any subcontractors to take equivalent security 
measures.   
 
24.6.  Without prejudice to other rights and remedies 
SIEMENS ENERGY may have, SIEMENS  ENERGY 
may terminate the contract if the Supplier  has culpably 
violated any of these obligations. If, however, the 
Supplier ’s breach of duty is capable of remedy, 
SIEMENS ENERGY may terminate the contract only if 
the Supplier  has failed to comply with a period granted 
by SIEMENS ENERGY for remedying its breach of 
contract.  
 
 
24.7.  If requested by Customer, the Supplier shall not more 
than once a year either – at its option – provide the 
Customer with : a) a written self -assessment in the form 
provided by the Customer, or b) a written report 
approved by the Customer describing the actions taken 
or to be taken by the Supplier to assure compliance with 
the Code of Conduct.   
 
24.8.  Customer and its authori sed agents and representatives 
and/or a third part ies appointed by the Customer and 
reasonably acceptable to the Supplier, shall be entitled 
(but not obliged) to conduct – also at Suppliers' premises 
– inspections in order to verify Suppliers' compliance with 
the Code of Conduct.   
 
Any inspection may only be conducted upon prior written 
notice of Customer, during regular business hours, in 
accordance with the applicable data protection 
legislation  and shall neither unreasonably interfere with 
Suppliers' business activities nor violate any of Suppliers' 
confidentiality agreements with third parties. The 
Supplier shall reasonably cooperate in any inspections 
conducted. Each party shall bear its expenses in 
connection with such inspection s.  
 
24.9.  In addition to any other rights and remedies the 
Customer may have, in the event of : a) Supplier's 
repeated failure to comply with the Code of Conduct or 
b) Supplier's denial of Customer's right of inspection as provided for in Article  24.8. , after providing the Supplier 
reasonable notice and a reasonable opportunity to 
remedy, the Customer may withdraw from the Contract  
and/or any purchase order issued thereunder without 
any liability whatsoever.   
 
Other serious violations of the Code of Conduct include, 
but are not limited to, incidents of child labo ur, corruption 
and bribery, and failure to comply with the Code of 
Conduct's environmental protection requirements. The 
notice and opportunity to remedy provision shall not 
apply to violations of requirements and principles 
regarding of the child labo ur as set out in the Code of 
Conduct or wilful failures to comply with the Code of 
Conduct’s environmental protection requirements.  
 
24.10.  SIEMENS ENERGY is granted with the right of direct 
monetary remuneration by the Supplier, on the basis of  
an invoice due for payment within 7 days, in the amount 
determined by SIEMENS ENERGY at its sole discretion 
for each case of breach of the provisions of Chapter 24  
by the Supplier. The Supplier waives its right to contest 
such invoice issued by SIEMENS ENERGY. In the event 
of such breach, SIEMENS ENERGY is authorized to 
terminate the Contract and take any other measures, at 
its sole discretion. This right does  not in any way affect 
SIEMENS ENERGY' s right to compensation for 
damages or any other right deriv ing from the Supplier's 
behaviour contrary to the statutory or contractual health 
and safety provisions.  
 
 
 
25. The Health and Safety of Persons and 
Environment Protection  
  
25.1.  The Supplier shall comply with all legal provisions on    
health and safety and shall make his best efforts a) to 
remove threats to the health and safety of persons 
employed by the Supplier and Supplier’s direct or indirect 
Sub-supplier responsible for the  performance of works 
(“personnel”) and b) to ensure that no person who is 
authorized to be on a construction site, including 
personnel, SIEMENS ENERGY personnel and visitors is 
injured.  
 
25.2.  Prior to the start of works /commencement of services , 
the Supplier shall: 1) provide SIEMENS ENERGY with a 
risk assessment prepared for that specific site in written 
form that a) analyses any potential threats to the health 
and safety of personnel which may arise from the 
performance of works and b) determines measures, 
deadlines and responsible persons to remove such 
threats; 2) provide SIEMEN S ENERGY with a EHS 
Plan/Plan of work execution prepared for that specific 
site, in written form, in accordance with provisions of the 
relevant national bylaw. Both documents must cover all 
Contractor’s work activities (his own and his 
subcontractor’s).  
 
 
 
25.3.  The Supplier shall ensure that all personnel, prior to the 
start of works, participates in specific training organised 
for that construction site which must be documented in 
written form, and that the same personnel is equipped 
with appropriate personal pr otective equipment and 
other equipment. The Supplier shall ensure that the 
personnel uses that personal protective equipment and 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  14 of 16 other equipment and that the equipment is maintained in 
good condition at all times, have appropriate certificates 
and, if necessary, replace them with new ones.  
 
 
25.4.  In accordance with the provisions of the Health  and 
Safety  at Work  Act  and all other valid regulations 
governing safety and health at work , the Supplier  is 
obliged to comply with the regulations and the 
organisation of occupational health and safety on the 
joint construction site, regulating any mutual rights, 
obligations and responsibilities of the Buyer and the 
Supplier with respect to occupational heal th and safety.  
           The Supplier undertakes:  
- to ensure the work of its foreign employees, with a 
work permit in accordance with existing legal 
regulations;  
- to conclude a Work Contract or Temporary 
Service Contract with each employee in writing;  
- to register its employees with the authorities 
regulating health, pension and disability 
insurance;  
- to pay a special contribution for employees in the 
event of a work -related injury or occupational 
disease according to the provisions of the law and 
all other valid regulations governing safety and 
health at work ; 
 
- that the employees assigned to jobs with specific 
working conditions meet the specific requirements   
in accordance with the provisions of the  Health 
and Safety at Work Act and the Ordinance on Jobs 
with Specific Working Conditions;  
 
- that the employees are trained in workplace safety 
in accordance with the Health and Safety  at Work  
Act, and that they perform their work tasks and 
assignments with due care taking into account 
their own health and safety and the health and 
safety of other persons who may be endangered 
by their actions or misconduct;  
 
- to ensure that the resources, personal protective 
equipment and place of work used are at all times 
safe, maintained, adapted for work and in working 
condition, and the machinery and mechanical 
devices with an increased risk have been tested in 
accordance with the Health and Safety at Work 
Act and the regulations adopted on the basis of 
the Act;  
 
- to organise and implement occupational health 
and safety prevention in all aspects of work 
organisation, work procedures, and workflow 
management, while organising the highest 
possible level of workplace health and safety, as 
well as determining the performance of health and 
safety activities in accordance with risk 
assessment, the status of health and safety and 
the number of employees;  
 
- to implement all occupational health and safety 
measures, environmental protection measures 
and fire protection measures in force during the 
execution of works, in accordance with the Health 
and Safety at Work Act, Fire Protection Act, 
Environmental Protection Act and the related 
Ordinances  and regulations . 
        In addition to the aforementioned documents, 
the Supplier especially undertakes to deliver 
the following documents , obtained from 
competent authorized institutions in the 
Republic of Slovenia : 
 
- Company job risk assessment;  
- Employment documents: registration, work 
permits and residence permits for Slovenia ; 
- Medical certificates for jobs with specific working 
conditions;  
- Evidence of workplace safety training for the jobs 
performed by the employees (certificate in theory 
and practice);  
- Evidence of initial fire extinguishing training;  
- Evidence of first -aid training;  
- Evidence of health and safety training for an 
authorised person (authorised person on a 
construction site);  
- Evidence of testing machinery (devices) with 
increased risk;  
- Type approval certificates and instructions for safe  
operation for any equipment used (kits, personal  
protective equipment, operating procedures).  
 
25.5.  In the event of breach of the above clauses by the 
Supplier, the Buyer shall have the right to compensation 
for any damage which may arise thereto on the basis of 
administrative, criminal and civil liability, and shall 
constitute reasonable grounds for the  termination of the 
Contract by the Buyer, the completion of work by a 
different supplier at the expense of the Supplier under 
Contract, and compensation for any damage to the 
Buyer resulting from the termination of Contract due to 
the fault of the Supplie r. 
 
25.6.  SIEMENS ENERGY reserves the right, at its sole 
discretion and at any moment, to remove any personnel 
from the construction site and/or suspend the 
performance of works for health and safety reasons, in 
which case SIEMENS ENERGY shall bear no liability or 
any other  consequences.  
 
25.7.  The Supplier shall appoint an expert as its representative 
for environment, health and safety and fire safety (“the 
Supplier’s EHS representative”) and shall ensure that the 
Supplier’s EHS representative participates in 
discussions related to safety which will periodically be 
organized by SIEMENS ENERGY.  
 
25.8.  The Supplier shall regularly monitor compliance with the 
legal provisions as well as provisions in the field of 
occupational health and safety, fire safety and 
environmental protection defined in the contract and in 
the internal rules of the End Customer. In addition, 
Supplier shall a) periodically conduct site visits, known 
as Safety Walk and Talk , b) ensure communication of 
Stop Work Authority rule in case of identified danger , c) 
ensure communication of forbidden work regulations in 
areas for which Work Permit is not issued, d) 
communicate to all workers that SIEMENS ENERGY 
must be informed about each Work order, i.e. the work 
activity must not start without prior approval by the 
SIEMENS ENERGY responsible person.  
 
25.9.  In due course, before conducting site visits, the Supplier 
may invite SIEMENS ENERGY to participate in the visits. 
If the Supplier finds non -compliance with the provisions 
on health and safety, compliance has to be established 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  15 of 16 without delay and SIEMENS ENERGY has to be 
informed on the findings and status of actions taken by 
the Supplier in order to achieve compliance.  
 
Upon the request of SIEMENS ENERGY, the Supplier 
shall immediately allow SIEMENS ENERGY to access 
the Supplier’s documents which refer to health and 
safety, fire safety and environment protection, and relate 
to the works.  
 
 
25.10.  In the event of an incident which leads to a) the death of 
any one member of personnel or b) serious injury which 
includes more than one day of incapacity to work of any 
one member of personnel or c) more than three workers 
put in hospitals, d) an injury t hat requires medical 
attention the Supplier shall immediately notify SIEMENS 
ENERGY and shall, without delay, 1) provide first aid to 
injured persons and secure the location of the incident 2) 
conduct an analysis of the basic cause of the incident, 3) 
determine appropriate measures in order to prevent 
similar incidents in the future, 4) define time -limits and 
responsible persons for measures to be carried out and 
5) submit a written report to SIEMENS ENERGY within 
one week from the incident which contains s ufficient 
details on the basic cause of the incident, the measures 
determined and the time -limits defined. The Supplier 
shall support any additional investigations that might be 
carried out by SIEMENS ENERGY.  
 
25.11.  SIEMENS ENERGY and its authorized persons and 
representatives and/or a third party designated by 
SIEMENS ENERGY have the right (but not the 
obligation) to perform – including at the Supplier’s 
premises – an Audit (in the same way as stipulated in 
Article 24.8 ) to evaluate the Supplier’s environmental, 
health and safety management system, including 
controls of appropriate documents and, in case of 
deficiencies classified as serious by SIEMENS 
ENERGY, defining of remedial measures . 
 
 
25.12.  If the Audit is caused by serious incident described in 
Article  25.10. or by continuous or recurring 
environmental and occupational health and safety 
deficiencies, the cost of that Audit and any delay in the 
provision of SIEMENS ENERGY services to the End 
Customer shall be borne by the Supplier.  
 
25.13.  When SIEMENS ENERGY prepares a document related 
to health and safety on a construction site (“EHS 
Plan/Plan of work execution”), SIEMENS ENERGY will 
provide a copy of it for the Supplier.  The Supplier shall  
confirm the receipt of the document in writing and act in 
accordance with the provisions contained therein. The 
same applies to the amendments to the EHS Plan/Plan 
of work execution which SIEMENS ENERGY may carry 
out when deemed necessary. The Supplier sha ll ensure 
that its direct or indirect Sub -supplie rs, with which the 
Supplier contracted works, commit to conduct in 
compliance with the EHS  Plan/Plan of work execution 
and its amendments.  
 
The Supplier shall plan, prepare and implement 
operating procedures, as well as develop and implement 
operating technologies in a manner that does not 
compromise the health and safety of employees, taking 
into account the highest level of protection agains t 
occupational risk, in accordance with the rules of occupational health and safety and other regulations, 
and shall ensure that only the employees who have 
received the appropriate instructions shall have access 
to places where there are serious and speci fic hazards.  
 
25.14.  In addition to all other rights, SIEMENS ENERGY may, 
in the event the Supplier violates legal and/or contractual 
provisions regarding health and safety or regularly 
performs works failing to comply with those provisions, 
including the provisions of this Se ction and the provisions 
of the EHS plan/Plan of work execution, terminate this 
contract after the Supplier fails to correct the identified 
violations within a reasonable time -frame or prohibit 
access to Supplier’s employees who frequently violate 
the rule s, or suspend work until the non -compliance is 
remedied. In that case, SIEMENS ENERGY shall have 
no liability to the Supplier or any other third party nor any 
other consequences regarding the termination of this 
contract.  
 
25.15.  SIEMENS ENERGY is granted with the right of direct 
monetary remuneration by the Supplier, on the basis of 
an invoice due for payment within 7 days, in the amount 
determined by SIEMENS ENERGY at its sole discretion 
for each case of breach of the statutory o r contractual 
health and safety provisions by the Supplier. The 
Supplier waives its right to contest such invoice issued 
by SIEMENS ENERGY. In the event of such breach, 
SIEMENS ENERGY is authorized to terminate the 
Contract and take any other measures, at its sole 
discretion. This right does not in any way affect 
SIEMENS ENERGY' s right to compensation for 
damages or any other right deriving from the Supplier's 
behaviour contrary to the statutory or contractual health 
and safety provisions.  
 
 
 
 
26. Governing Law and Dispute Resolution  
 
26.1.  The Contract shall be governed by the laws of the 
Republic of Slovenia. The application of the UN 
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of 
Goods (CISG) from 11 April 1980 shall be excluded.  
 
26.2.  Any disputes arising in connection with this Contract 
shall be settled through negotiation in good faith. Every 
Party to the Contract shall be entitled to request that 
members of the highest management on either side 
participate in the negotiations.   
 
26.3.  If an amicable solution is not possible, disputes shall be 
settled by the competent court in Ljubljana.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Customer shall be 
entitled to bring an action and enforce his claims against 
the Supplier before the competent court at the registered 
seat of the Supplier or any other court competent 
according to the rules valid at the  Supplier’s registered 
seat.    
 
27. Final provision s 
 
27.1.  All changes and/or amendments to the Contract shall 
only be valid if concluded in writing.  
27.2.  Any individual provision of this General Terms, and/or 
agreements and/or other additional arrangements 
concluded in writing between SIEMENS ENERGY and 
the Supplier which is or becomes invalid, illegal or 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Siemens Energy , Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. o.  
 
Page  16 of 16 unenforceable under any law of any jurisdiction which 
affects the performance of the contract or any omission 
to provide for any subject matter shall not affect the 
validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining 
provisions of and/or agreements and/ or other additional 
arrangements concluded in writing between SIEMENS 
ENERGY and the Supplier.  
In such cases, any invalid, illegal or unenforceable 
provision(s) shall be severed from the remainder of the 
contract and the parties shall seek effective solutions to 
replace invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with 
the provision whose content shall be a djusted to the valid 
applicable provision, and shall as closely as possible 
approximate (in economic effect) to the purpose parties 
intended to achieve with the clause which shall be 
replaced.  
 
 
 