 
 
  
 
Siemens Energy , s.r.o.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG . 
 1/7 
 
 
GENERAL PURCHASING TERMS  
I. Introduction  
1.1 These  General  Terms and Conditions ( “Terms and Conditions ”) 
serve as commercial terms pursuant to Article 273 of Act No. 
513/1991 Coll ., the  Commercial Code, as amended 
(“Commercial Code ”).  
1.2 These Terms and Conditions are an integral part of all Siemens 
Energy , s.r.o. ( Siemens Energy  or “Customer”) orders for  the 
delivery of goods, services or work ( “order”) and contracts 
concluded on their basis with a supplier to which the order is 
addressed (“ Supplier ”).  
1.3 These Terms  and Conditions are also an integral part of all 
contracts concluded by Siemens Energy  as the Customer for the 
delivery  of goods, services or work ( “delivery”) that refer directly 
to their usage.  
 
II.    Conclusion of Contract   
2.1 Contract between the Customer and the Supplier shall be 
deemed concluded (i) upon signature by persons authorized to 
act on behalf of or representing the parties, or (ii) written and 
unrestricted confirmation of Siemens Energy ’ order (“order 
confirmation”) by the Supplier. The Supplier has 5 working days 
from receipt of the Customer ’s order to confirm the order.  
2.2 Orders are issued exclusively in writing. Contracts are concluded 
exclusively in writing. For the purposes hereof, the requirement 
for materials to be concluded in writing is satisfied for electronic 
orders sent in PDF format via email by the Customer ’s authorised 
person and its subsequent confirmation by the Supplier back to 
the email of the Customer ’s authorised person . Verbal 
agreements become valid at the moment of the confirmation of 
their contents in writing by both parties thereto.  
2.3 These Terms and Conditions become a part of the contract upon 
confirmation of an order. The Customer is authorised to recall or 
amend an order at any point before order confirmation by the 
Supplier.  
2.4 If the confirmed order deviates from the contents of the order 
itself, the Supplier shall clearly report such deviations in the 
confirmed order. The Client is only bound to such deviations and 
they are only incorporated into the contract concluded based on  
order confirmation if the Customer provides clear consent to such 
deviations in writing.  Acceptance of delivery or a portion thereof 
or payment of the price or a portion thereof is not considered 
acceptance of deviations from the contents of the order or  
acceptance of the confirmed order with deviations by the 
Customer.  
2.5 The Supplier’s terms and conditions, and any other provisions in 
other Supplier documents (e.g. specifications, technical 
documentation, advertising materials, confirmed orders or 
delivery notes) are not binding for Siemens Energy  unless 
confirmed by Siemens Energy  in writing. A reference to 
documentation in the Supplier’s bid contained in the Customer’s 
order do not constitute acceptance of the Supplier's terms and 
conditions.  
2.6 Any licensing conditions on the part of the Supplier or its 
subcontractors (e.g. EULA) delivered with software products in 
paper or digital format are non -binding for Siemens Energy  
unless confirmed by Siemens Energy  in writing. Such licensing 
conditions are not binding for Siemens Energy , especially if 
Siemens Energy  has acted in a manner that these conditions 
associated with their acceptance or if the Customer receives 
software registration or other similar cards from Supplier or if the 
Customer is grante d consent to the conditional use of the 
software. The Supplier commits in contracts with its 
subcontractors to agree that such action taken by the Customer 
does not constitute the Customer’s commitment thereto and 
commits to compensate the Customer for dam ages if such claims 
are applied against the Customer.  
2.7 The contract, its annexes and other documents specified therein 
are contractual documents. These documents comprise the 
Contract and form an integral part thereof. Contractual 
documents complement or explain each other; in case of conflict between contractual documents, the provision of the contract 
shall prevail over other documents related thereto. Dimensions 
specified in writing or in numbers on drawings and not being 
principally incorrect, take precedence over dimensions measured 
from dr awings.  
 
III.   Price, Payment Conditions and Set -Offs 
3.1   All agreed prices are final. Prices include all the Supplier ’s 
costs inevitable  to proper completion of the delivery  such as 
transport, postage, packaging, insurance, taxes and similar 
fees, documentation, installation and testing, etc. Prices 
include all reimbursement for providing user rights for 
software and firmware included in delivery . 
3.2 The Customer shall pay the Supplier based on a valid tax 
document ( “invoice ”). Pursuant to Act No. 222/2004 Coll. on 
Value Added Tax as amended ("VAT Act ”), invoices must 
include the Customer ’s order number and the number and 
code for each line item. The Supplier shall send invoices 
electronically in PDF format to the email address of the 
Customer ’s authorised person. The Customer is authorised 
to return an invoice within its payment term and without 
resulting in delayed payment if an invoice includes i ncorrect 
charges, is incomplete or is not delivered with required 
attachments and supporting materials.  
3.3 The Supplier shall issue an invoice as of the date of taxable 
delivery. This is the date on which the Customer accepts 
delivery, which is understood as the date on which risk of 
damage to the delivery transfers to the Customer.  
3.4 Invoice payment terms are 60 (sixty) days from receipt of the 
invoice. The invoiced amount shall be paid to the Supplier ’s 
bank account provided in the applicable contract. The 
Customer ’s debt is satisfied once the outstanding amount is 
debited from the Customer's account.  
3.5  The Supplier is authorised to offset all due and enforceable 
receivables that have not lapsed and that are not disputed by 
the parties if such set -off is approved by the Customer in 
writing. The Customer is authorised to offset any receivables. 
The Su pplier is not authorised to assign any Customer 
receivables to any third party without the prior written consent 
of the Customer.  
3.6 The Customer ’s payment of the invoiced amount is 
conditioned on the fact that the Supplier is not in delay with 
any payment for delivery previously made , even if  based on 
any other contract. During such delay on the side of the 
Supplier, the Customer is not considered in delay with 
payment of the invoiced amount and the agreed payment 
term is extended accordingly based on the duration of the 
Supplier ’s delay.  
3.7 Upon Customer request in justified cases (e.g. the Supplier 
is declared bankrupt), the Supplier shall demonstrate that it 
is properly collecting and making VAT payments. Until 
demonstrable presentation of such evidence, the Customer 
is authorised to defer payment for provided delivery without 
resulting in delay with payment. The application of Section 
3.8 herein is not excluded.  
3.8   If any circumstances occur until the payment the amount 
invoiced by the Customer which result in the Customer 
becoming a tax guarantor under Section 69 (14) of the VAT 
Act, the Customer has the right to withhold the amount of the 
applicable value add ed tax that the Supplier is obliged to pay 
to the applicable tax authorities until such moment that the 
Supplier reliably demonstrates that it has properly 
discharged this tax obligation.  
3.9   The Supplier shall provide the Customer with all cooperation 
needed in matters involving the Supplier and tax authorities, 
especially full and timely providing of accurate information, 
documents and support in negotiations between the 
Customer and ta x authorities if the tax authorities raise 
claims against the Customer due to its obligation to provide 
guaranty for VAT or if the Customer voluntarily paid VAT for 
the delivery under the Contract.  
3.10  If the Supplier informs the Customer about the change of its 
bank account, the Customer is entitled to verify this fact at 
the Supplier, namely according to the Customer´s decision 
 
    
 
Siemens Energy, s.r.o.  2/7 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed  by Siemens AG  
 
either from the written bank confirmation or at the Supplier´s 
credible person. If the Supplier enforces such right, the 
Supplier is obliged to prove the change of its bank account 
in the manner chosen by the Customer; the Customer 
executes the payment in favour  of Supplier´s new account 
only if the change of the bank account was proven in such 
manner.  
 
 
IV. Delivery - Handover and Acceptance   
4.1 Delivery is accepted:  
a) for delivery without installation: upon written confirmation of 
delivery (including unloading) of the complete delivery at the 
delivery location as defined in the confirmed order;  
b) for delivery with installation and for services: upon written 
confirmation of acceptance of the complete delivery by the 
Customer.  
4.2 For delivery of technical equipment and instrumentation, the 
Supplier shall train the Customer's operators and maintenance 
personnel or the end -users of the delivery. The Supplier shall 
deliver all documentation related to delivery (i.e. installation plans , 
including all utility connections and construction requirements, 
data sheets, installation manuals, processing instructions, storage 
and operating regulations and maintenance regulations, etc.). All 
documents delivered by the Supplier must be delivered w ith the 
delivery at the latest in two copies and in Slovak or in English. 
Upon Customer request, the Supplier shall provide these 
documents in other language versions at no charge.  
4.3 If the contract involves products defined in the executing 
regulations related to Act No. 264/1999 Coll. on Product Technical 
Requirements and Conformity Assessment, the Supplier shall 
provide the Customer with a copy of declaration of conformity or a 
written commitment to issue a declaration of conformity. 
Furthermore, the Supplier shall permit the Customer to check on 
progress on the contract and delivery during completion.  
4.4 The Customer is authorised to call on the Supplier in writing to 
cease the  work on the delivery. The Supplier shall interrupt work 
on delivery after receiving such notice until it receives a written 
notice from the Supplier to continue work on the delivery.  
4.5 The Supplier is not authorised to request payment of storage fees 
or any other costs incurred because of such stoppage of work on 
the delivery for the first 90 days of such stoppage. Delivery terms 
will be extended appropriately by the duration of the halt  in work.  
4.6 The Supplier shall immediately inform the Customer and request 
instructions if the Supplier is at risk of delay in completing delivery.  
4.7 If the Supplier is in delay with completion of delivery, the Customer 
is entitled to charge the Supplier a contractual penalty totalling 
0.3% of the price for delivery (including VAT) for each day of delay. 
Payment of the contractual penalty has no impact on the 
Customer ’s entitlement to compensation for damages.  
4.8 The place of delivery is the location stipulated in the order. 
Delivery is made on working days between the hours of 8:30 AM 
and 5:00 PM.  
4.9 The Supplier is only authorised to complete delivery via 
subcontractors with the prior consent of the Customer.  
4.10 Delivery or a portion thereof may be completed using so called 
Remote  access if the nature of the delivery or portion thereof 
permits. Unless the Contract specifies that a specific portion of 
delivery must be conducted by the Supplier at the place of delivery 
or via remote access and the nature of the delivery permits both 
options, the Customer is authorised to select between these two 
options as it sees fit without any impact on the agreed price of 
delivery. The Customer shall permit the Supplier to perfor m 
remote access if remote access is to be used to complete delivery. 
The Supplier bears all costs associated with remote access.  
4.11 The Supplier is only entitled to complete delivery before the 
agreed date of delivery with the explicit written consent of the 
Customer.  
 
 
 V. Delivery, Transfer of Title and Risk of Damage  
5.1 The Supplier shall complete delivery at its own cost and risk to the 
agreed delivery location (with shipment paid in Slovakia or DAP 
per INCOTERMS 20 20 for international shipments). COD 
shipments will not be accepted. The Supplier shall package the 
delivery in such a way that prevents damage thereto and 
prevents other health and property damage during transport.   
5.2  The Supplier shall provide a delivery note with all the details from 
the order, including the order number, part number, precise 
labelling of the goods, order line items and the tariff classification 
of the goods if delivered from a European Union cou ntry. Delivery 
shall include the Supplier ’s completed declarations required for 
the purposes of export and customs inspections and documents 
demonstrating the origin of the goods used for customs and re -
export purposes, etc.  
5.3 If costs to transport the delivery to the agreed place are paid by 
the Customer per the contract, the Supplier is only authorised to 
charge the Customer those costs that the Customer approved in 
advance.  
5.4 If costs to transport the delivery to the agreed place are paid by the 
Customer, all damage to the delivery during transport are insured 
by Siemens Energy  Global Transport Insurance (GTV) with 
worldwide coverage. The Supplier shall report the transport of all 
individual consignments with an equivalent value of more than 
€10 million or transport with a lead time (including storage during 
transport) of more t han 60 days to the Customer in advance. The 
Supplier shall recognise Siemens Energy  GTV Insurance and 
especially prevent duplication of such insurance cover. The 
Customer shall not pay for excessive insurance cover. The 
provisions hereof do not limit the S upplier ’s liability for damage to 
the delivery during transport.  
5.5 If transport is performed by a carrier selected by the Customer, the 
Supplier shall inform the carrier of all necessary data and details 
concerning hazardous goods.  
5.6    The Supplier shall ensure  that / following : 
a)      the delivery is provided with a packing or delivery note 
containing details of the contents and the Customer ’s 
complete order number;  
b)      every portion of a consignment shall contain details of its 
contents as well as the Customer ’s complete order number 
on the packaging;  
c)  dispatch of a delivery that requires the presence/cooperation 
of its recipient shall be reported in writing at least 1 working 
day in advance to the Customer/recipient together with 
clear indication of its contents and the Customer ’s 
complete order number.  
5.7 Title and risk of damage transfer to the Customer:  
a)       for delivery without installation, upon written confirmation 
of receipt (delivery and unloading) of the undamaged 
delivery at the place specified in the confirmed order;  
b)   for delivery with installation, upon signature of the acceptance 
report for the delivery by the Supplier and the Customer.  
5.8  Materials owned by the Customer and provided to the Supplier to 
complete delivery remain the property of the Customer; such 
materials shall be stored separately at no charge, labelled and 
recorded in administrative records. These materials may only be 
used  to satisfy the Supplier's commitments to the Customer. If 
damaged or lost, the Supplier shall procure and use 
corresponding replacements at its own cost.  
5.9 The Supplier shall process or modify the Customer ’s materials 
exclusively on behalf of the Customer. The Customer is  on the 
instant  the sole owner or co -owner of the modified material, 
intermediate product or new items. The Customer is the owner of 
new items once such processing or modification occurs. The 
Supplier shall professionally care for such new items on behalf of 
the Customer  at no charge and until it is furnished to the 
Customer.   
5.10 Tools, moulds, samples, models, profiles, drawings, standards, 
print templates, instructions in any form, provided by the 
Customer, as well as objects produced using them, may not be 
passed on to third parties or used for any purpose other than that 
agreed in the contract without the written approval of the 
 
    
 
Siemens Energy, s.r.o.  3/7 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed  by Siemens AG  
 
Customer. The Supplier shall protect such property against 
unauthorised usage and label them with the Customer's name. If 
the Supplier violates any of these obligations, the Customer may 
seek their return without impacting any of its other rights.  
 
VI. Warranty for Quality, Responsibility for Defects  
6.1 The Supplier shall provide the Customer with a warranty for the 
quality of the delivery of 3 (three) years, which begins once risk 
of damage transfers to the Customer.  
6.2  For deliveries the Customer delivers to third parties without use 
of the delivery, the warranty period commences upon acceptance 
by the third party, and ends at the latest 3 (three) years after the 
transfer of all risk of damage to the goods to the Cu stomer.  
6.3 The Supplier shall ensure delivery complies with ISO 9001, ISO 
14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. If the Supplier is certified 
pursuant to these standards, it shall furnish these certificates to 
the Customer upon request. If the Supplier is not certified , the 
Customer is authorised to conduct an audit for the purposes of 
determining compliance with these standards.  
6.4  For defects discovered after the transfer of risk of damage or that 
appeared during the warranty period, the Supplier is obliged at 
its own cost and as selected by the Customer to remedy the 
defect or repeat delivery within 5 (five) working days from the date 
on which a claim is filed. This provision also applies to delivery 
for which inspection is limited to a random check of samples or 
identification. The Supplier shall send the Customer information 
about corrective actions taken to avoid the repetit ion of these 
defects in the format defined by the Customer. The term for 
sending such information is two (2) working days from the date 
on which a claim is filed.  
6.5 If the Supplier does not remedy such defect or repeat delivery, even 
when provided with an adequate / appropriate additional term by 
the Customer, the Customer is authorised:  
a) to withdraw from the contract in full or in part;  
b) to request a discount be provided;  
c) to remedy defects at Supplier cost, either alone or via a third 
party, or secure replacement, whereby the Supplier ’s 
obligations in accordance with the warranty for quality and 
responsibility for defects are not affected.  
6.6  The Customer may seek payment from the Supplier of a 
contractual penalty for defective delivery in the amount of 15% of 
the agreed price. The Customer ’s entitlement to compensation 
for damages above the contractual penalty is in no way affected.  
6.7  Remedy of defects at Supplier expense may occur without 
providing an additional term to the Supplier if the Supplier is in 
delay with completion of the original delivery.  
6.8 Costs incurred by the Customer to remedy the consequences of 
a violation of the Supplier ’s obligations and to remedy all defects 
in the delivery must be paid by the Supplier to the Customer  
based on written notice thereof from the Customer. The same 
applies to the Customer ’s sunken costs to complete or modify 
delivery for the purposes identified above.  
6.9 The Customer is authorised to lodge claims for defective delivery 
immediately after it becomes aware of such defects or a third 
party becomes aware of such defects if delivered to a third party.  
6.10 The above rules apply accordingly to substitute delivery in 
accordance with Section 6.4.  
6.11 The Supplier bears all costs associated with claims, including 
transport costs.  
6.12 The Supplier shall complete delivery or secure post -warranty 
repairs in exchange for adequate compensation, including the 
removal of spare parts, if required given the nature of the delivery 
for a period of 10 (ten) years from the completion of such d elivery. 
If not, the Supplier is immediately obliged to report such fact to 
the Customer and secure a substitute solution under identical 
conditions.  
 
 VII.  Licensing Provisions and Specific Provisions on the Supply 
of Computer Programs  
7.1  Hardware and software are always considered a single assembly, 
unless specified otherwise in the order.  
7.2 If delivery  includes copyrighted work or a computer 
program/software as defined  in Act No. 185/2015 Coll., the 
Copyright Act (“Copyrighted Work”) that was created exclusively 
for the Customer , the Supplier grants the Customer exclusive 
license for the use of the Copyrighted Work  for any use of the 
Copyrighted Work at the conclusion of such contract in an 
unlimited scope and for an unrestricted period (“exclusive 
license”), unless the parties agree  otherwise  in writing.  Within 
providing exclusive license , the Supplier shall provide the 
Customer with the current, updated version of the Copyrighted 
Work that constitutes a computer program under Act No. 185/2015 
Coll., the Copyright Act (“computer program").  
7.3 If delivery includes Copyrighted Work that was not created 
exclusively for the Customer, the Supplier grants the Customer 
non-exclusive license for the use of the Copyrighted Work for any 
use of the Copyrighted Work at the conclusion of such contract in 
an unlimited scope and for an unrestricted period (“non -exclusive 
license”), unless the parties agree otherwise in writing.  
7.4 Compensation for the use of the Copyrighted Work in the scope 
of the provided license (see Subsection 7.2 or 7.3 above) is 
included in the price for delivery.  
7.5 The Customer is authorised to issue license to third parties for the 
use of the Copyrighted Work in the scope of the provided license 
(See Subsection 7.1 or 7.2 above), i.e. sub -license, and/or transfer 
this license.  
7.6 The Supplier declares that it is authorised to issue license for the 
use of the Copyrighted Work to the Customer in the scope defined 
herein and that the use of the Copyrighted Work by the Customer 
as defined herein shall not violate any third -party rights .   
7.7  The Supplier shall declare if the delivery contains open source 
components in a timely manner, and upon order confirmation at 
the latest. Open source components include software, hardware 
and other information provided to users free of charge with the 
right to modify or expa nd them based on an applicable license 
(e.g. GPL, LGPL or MIT license).  
7.8 If a delivery includes open source components, the Supplier shall 
comply with the conditions of all involved open source licenses 
and provide an open source license to the Customer and provide 
the information needed by the Customer to comply with the open 
source licensing conditions. The Supplier shall also provide the 
following at order confirmation at the latest:  
-  the source code for the used open source software, including 
scripts and information about the environment, if required by 
valid licenses; and  
- a document presenting all contained open source components 
and their versions, all  applicable license texts and copyright 
documents with appropriate distribution and content.  
7.9 The Supplier commits to inform the Customer in a timely manner, 
and at order confirmation at the latest, if any of the open source 
licenses used by the Supplier with respect to their intended use by 
the Customer are subject to “copyleft” that may affect th e 
Customer’s products. Copyleft is a situation where the open 
source license used by the Supplier in a delivery requires that the 
Customer’s delivery or other deliveries derived there from may 
only be distributed further if the open source licensing condit ions 
are met, e.g. by making the source codes available.  
7.10 If the Supplier notifies the Customer after delivery of order 
confirmation that the delivery includes open source components 
or is subject to copyleft, then the Customer is entitled to withdraw 
from the contract within 14 days from the delivery of such 
notification.  
7.11 The Supplier shall install any computer program included in a 
delivery . After installation, the Supplier shall provide the Customer 
with a data media compatible with the Customer ’s computer 
systems containing the source and machine code as well as 
related technical documentation (the contents and procedure for 
compiling the data carrier, the program and diagrams of data 
flows, test protocols, test programs and debugging) and furnis h it 
to the Customer. In addition to this documentation, the Supplier 
 
    
 
Siemens Energy, s.r.o.  4/7 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed  by Siemens AG  
 
shall provide the Customer with written user documentation in 
Slovak in a sufficient quantity of copies.  
7.12 A computer party created  for the Customer is considered properly 
delivered if it corresponds to the agreed specifications and 
operates flawlessly  for a period  of at least four weeks after 
installation (test operation). The  Customer shall certify the above 
in written confirmation of delivery acceptance .  
7.13 During the warranty period, the Supplier shall provide the 
Customer with all subsequent versions of the the delivered 
computer program containing patches ( “updates ”) at no charge. 
The Supplier shall also offer the Customer maintenance support 
for a period  of at least 3  years from the expiry of the warranty 
period for the delivered computer program  under standard market 
conditions.   
 
VIII. Damages  
The full scope of the Customer ’s liability to the Supplier for damage 
incurred by the Supplier in the performance of the contract or violation 
of the obligations contained therein is limited to 10% of the total price 
of the contract (excl. VAT) for all damages cumulatively. Compensation  
is only provided for actual damage ; no compensation is provided for 
lost profits or other costs. Any damages  arising hereunder will be paid 
preferably in cash. Any contractual penalties or other sanctions paid by 
the Custome r to the Supplier are set -off against claims for damages in 
full. The restrictions agreed  above are not applied to damages caused 
intentionally or damages to health.  
 
IX. Withdrawal from the Contract   
9.1 The parties may withdraw from the contract only in case of a 
material breach of the contract, or in cases expressly stipulated in 
the contract or these Terms and Conditions or in cases defined in 
legal regulations.  Withdrawal from the contract shall be effective 
as of the day of delivery of a written withdrawal from the contract 
to the other party.  
9.2 A significant breach of contract is defined as follows:  
a) the Supplier ’s delay with completion of delivery is more than 
20 (twenty) days. The Customer shall notify the Supplier if 
delivery is to continue in the event of such delay. If delivery 
is to continue, the Customer may withdraw from the contract 
upon unsuccessful expir y of the term provided to remedy 
the situation;  
b)  the Customer ’s delay with payment of an invoiced amount 
of more than 90 (ninety) days;  
c) violation of the commitments defined in Articles XI and XII 
of these Terms and Conditions.  
9.3 A party is authorised to withdraw from the contract effective the 
date notice of withdrawal is delivered to the other party if:  
a) a decision to declare the bankruptcy of the other party was 
issued by the applicable bankruptcy court;  
b) a bankruptcy proceedings of the other party was terminated  
by the applicable bankruptcy court due to a lack of property ; 
c) the other party has ceased making payments;  
d) a petition was filed with the applicable bankruptcy court to 
declare the other party bankrupt;  
e) the enforcement or execution on the property of the other 
party  was unsuccessful ; 
f) the other party was published in the list maintained by the 
Financial Authority of the Slovak Republic under Section 69 
(15) of the VAT Act.   
9.4 The parties are authorised to withdraw from the contract in the event 
of force majeure circumstances that prevent delivery for a period 
of more than 3 (three) months.  
9.5 The Customer is authorised to withdraw from the contract if the 
Supplier is in delay with the performance of its commitments from 
other contracts with Customer for more than 30 (thirty) days.  
9.6 The Customer is authorised to withdraw from the contract if there is 
no violation of contractual obligations if it commits to pay the 
Supplier the total price for completed and in -progress deliveries as of the effective date of withdrawal from the contract. In such 
case, the Supplier shall hand over such deliveries to the 
Customer.  
 
X. Confidentiality, Personal Data Protection  
10.1 “Confidential Information” is any information, data or notices 
marked as “Confidential” or similarly by the party providing such 
information, as well as any commercial or technical information 
and data provided by one party to the other party related to the 
contract and delivery, regardless of the data media. Information 
includ ed in an offer based on which no contract was concluded 
shall also be considered as confidential; the Customer shall 
return such offer to the Supplier. In case of verbal confidential 
information, it is necessary to notify the receiving party orally 
before disclosure of such information and then confirm the 
confidentiality of such information in writing to the providing party 
within 3 (three) days after it was provided orally.  
10.2 None of the parties shall be entitled to provide or disclose 
confidential information to any third party in any way without the 
prior written approval of the other party. The parties shall be 
entitled to use the received documents, data and confidential 
information for the purpose stipulated by the contractual 
relationship herein only. The obligation of confidentiality shall not 
be deemed as having been breached in case of provision of 
information due to fulfilment of obligations under legal regulations 
or provision of information to a court or arbitrary court upon filing 
claims  or rights under the contractual relationship or provision of 
information, documents and data to persons within the group, 
consultants to such party and other persons involved in 
performance of the contractual relationship or activities related to 
such con tractual relationship, having the obligation of 
confidentiality under the law or contractually adopted, whereby 
none of the parties shall be entitled to release such persons from 
such  confidentiality. The parties hereby undertake to ensure the 
informing of such persons regarding their confidentiality 
obligation and binding such persons to observe such obligations 
to the same extent as the parties. The confidentiality  obligation 
shall not apply to : 
- Information  publicly known at the time of conclusion of the 
contractual relationship or information disclosed 
subsequently in a way other than by breach of the 
confidentiality obligation,  
- Information  disclosed by a party pursuant to legal regulation 
or a decision of a public authority pursuant to applicable 
legislation,  
- Information being demonstrably available to the party as of 
the day of conclusion of the contractual relationship,  
- Information  disclosed or information that shall be disclosed 
to the party by a third party without  the title for limitation of 
their use or confidentiality.  
10.3 The obligation to maintain confidentiality endures after 
termination of the contractual relationship. In case of a breach of 
obligations herein, the party breaching such obligation shall be 
obliged to pay a contractual penalty of €500 for each such 
breach.  The aggrieved party’s right for damages   shall not be 
affected thereby . 
10.4 The Supplier hereby authorizes the Customer to process, collect 
and maintain the Supplier’s personal data contained in the 
contract and other personal data necessary to complete delivery. 
Such personal data shall be processed and maintained by the 
Customer  in an internal register  maintained by the Supplier to 
perform its obligations under the contract and for the purposes of 
recordkeeping.  
10.5 The Supplier hereby grants consent under Section 10.4 for the 
duration of the contract and for a period of an additional five (5) 
years from the performance of all the Customer's rights and 
obligations as defined in the contract.   
 
XI. Code of Conduct  
11.1 This Code of Conduct defines the basic requirements placed on 
the suppliers and third party  intermediaries of the Siemens 
Energy  Group concerning their responsibilities towards their 
stakeholders  and the environment.The supplier and/or third party 
intermediary declares herewith to:  
 
 
    
 
Siemens Energy, s.r.o.  5/7 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed  by Siemens AG  
 
Legal compliance  
• Comply with the laws and regulations of the applicable legal 
systems.  
 
Human Rights and Labor Practices  
To ensure respect of all internationally proclaimed human rights 
by avoiding causation of and complicity  in any human rights 
violations, heightened attention shall be paid to ensuring respect 
of human rights of  specifically vulnerable rights holders or groups 
of rights holders such as women, children or migrant  workers, or 
of (indigenous) communities.  
 
➢ Prohibition of Forced Labor  
• Neither use nor contribute to slavery, servitude, forced or 
compulsory labor and human trafficking.  
 
➢ Prohibition of Child Labor  
• Employ no workers under the age of 15 or, in those countries 
subject to the developing country exception of the ILO 
Convention 138, employ no workers under the age of 14.  
• Employ no workers under the age of 18 for hazardous work 
according to ILO Convention 182 . 
 
➢ Non-Discrimination and Respect for Employees  
• Promote equal opportunities and treatment of employees, 
irrespective of skin color, race,  nationality, ethnicity, political 
affiliation, social background, disabilities, gender, sexual identity 
and orientation, marital status, religious conviction, or age.  
• Refuse to tolerate any unacceptable treatment of individuals such 
as mental cruelty, sexual  harassment or discrimination including 
gestures, language and physical contact, that is sexual,  coercive, 
threatening, abusive or exploitative.  
 
➢ Working Hours, Wages & Benefits for Employees  
• Recognize the legal rights of workers to form or join existing trade 
unions and to engage in  collective bargaining; neither 
disadvantage nor prefer members of employee organizations or  
trade unions.  
• Adhere to all applicable working -hours regulations globally.  
• Pay fair wages for labor  and adhere to all applicable wage and 
compensation laws globally.   
• In the event of cross -border personnel deployment adhere to all 
applicable legal requirements,  especially with regard to minimum 
wages.  
 
➢ Health & Safety of Employees  
• Act in accordance with the applicable statutory and international 
standards regarding  occupational health and safety and provide 
safe working conditions.  
• Provide training to ensure employees are educated in health & 
safety issues.  
• Establish a reasonable occupational health & safety 
management system¹.  
 
➢ Grievance Mechanism  
• Provide access to a protected mechanism for their employees to 
report possible violations of the  principles of this Code of 
Conduct.  
 
Environmental Protection  
• Act in accordance with the applicable statutory and international 
standards regarding the  environment. Minimize environmental 
pollution and make continuous improvements in  environmental 
protection.  
• Establish a reasonable environmental management system¹.  
 
Fair Operating Practices  
➢ Anti-Corruption and Bribery  • Tolerate no form of and do not engage directly or indirectly in any 
form of corruption or bribery and do not grant, offer  or promise 
anything of value to a government official or to a counterparty in 
the private sector to influence official action or obtain an improper 
advantage. This includes to renounce from giving or accepting 
improper facilitation payments.  
 
➢ Fair Competition, Anti -Trust Laws and Intellectual Property Rights  
• Act in accordance with national and international competition 
laws and do not participate in price  fixing, market or customer 
allocation, market sharing or bid rigging with competitors.  
• Respect the intellectual property rights of others.  
 
➢ Conflicts of Interest  
• Avoid and/or disclose internally and to Siemens Energy  all 
conflicts of interest that may influence  business relationships, 
and to avoid already the appearance thereof.  
 
➢ Anti-Money Laundering, Terrorism Financing  
• Not directly or indirectly facilitate money laundering or terrorism 
financing.  
 
➢  Data Privacy  
• Process personal data confidentially and responsibly, respect 
everyone’s privacy and ensure that  personal data is effectively 
protected and used only for legitimate purposes.  
 
➢ Export Control and Customs  
• Comply with the applicable export control and customs 
regulations.  
 
Responsible Minerals Sourcing  
• Take reasonable efforts to avoid in its products the use of raw 
materials which originate from Conflict -Affected and High -Risk 
Areas and contribute to human rights abuses, corruption, the 
financing of armed groups or similar negative effects.  
 
Supply Chain  
• Use reasonable efforts to make its suppliers comply with the 
principles of this Code of Conduct.  
• Comply with the principles of non -discrimination with regard to 
supplier selection and treatment.  
       (hereinafter referred to as the „Code of Conduct “).  
 
 
XII. Supplier ’s Principles of Conduct  
12.1 The Supplier shall comply with legal regulations, specifically those 
related to combating corruption, the protection of economic 
competition, combating money laundering and criminal and 
administrative law as well as all other principles and requirements 
identi fied in Article XI herein.  
12.2 Upon request of the Customer, the Supplier shall provide the 
Customer as it requests either (i) written information using the 
Customer ’s forms or (ii) a written report approved by the Customer 
describing the measures taken by the Supplier to fulfil the 
requirements contained in the “Principles of Conduct for Siemens 
Energy  Suppliers ”. 
12.3 The Customer or authorised third parties accepted by the Supplier 
are authorised to conduct compliance inspections concerning the 
commitments defined in Article XI, including at the Supplier ’s 
premises. Inspections may only be performed based on prior 
written notice from the Customer during normal working hours and 
in accordance with valid data protection regulations. Such 
inspection may not represent an excessive restriction on the 
Supplier ’s business activities or otherwise interfere with the 
Supplier ’s commitments regarding confidentiality involving third 
parties. The Supplier shall provide adequate cooperation when 
such inspections are performed. The parties shall cover their 
respective costs incurred with such inspections.  
 
    
 
Siemens Energy, s.r.o.  6/7 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed  by Siemens AG  
 
12.4 The Supplier shall prevent illegal work as defined in the law, both 
directly by the Supplier and by its subcontractors. The Supplier 
shall furnish documents to the Customer demonstrating that the 
persons performing work for the Supplier or its subcontracto rs are 
not performing illegal work as defined in legal regulations upon 
Customer request namely in the unnecessary extent, however in 
form of a  declaration defining the name and surname of the 
employee, date of birth, fact whether the employment or similar  
labour relationship has been entered into, and whether the 
obligations according applicable legislation on social security has 
been fulfilled at least, namely before starting work on the delivery 
as well.   
12.5 The Supplier who meets the definition of the partner of the public 
sector as result of entering into the contract with the Customer 
according to the Act No. 315/2016 Coll. as amended is obliged to 
be registered in the register of the partners of the public  sector. 
The Supplier is obliged to check whether the subcontractors who 
are intended to be contracted when performing the contract are 
registered in the register of the partners of the public sector, if this 
obligation applies to them. The Supplier is lia ble for the fulfilment 
of the registration obligation of his subconractors as well.  
12.6 The Customer is authorised to apply its entitlement to require 
damages in a corresponding amount  if the Customer is levied a 
penalty or damages has arisen to the Customer due to  violation 
of these obligations on the part of the Supplier or its 
subcontrac tors; the Supplier is obliged to remove detrimental 
state without undue delay.  
 
XIII. Principles of OHS, Fire Safety and Environmental Protection 
for the Supplier  
13.1 The following principles are elaborated in accordance with the 
legal regulations of the Slovak Republic and internal regulations 
of the Customer and are specifically intended for instructing those 
persons conducting works on the Customer ’s premises 
eventually premises of the Customer´s customer in connection 
with the delivery . Their purpose is to assure occupational health 
and safety and environmental protection (proper handling of 
wastes and hazardous chemicals) and to provide details on the 
managemen t systems deployed within the Customer ’s company.  
13.2 The Supplier, who conducts the works in connection with the 
delivery, is obliged to be acquainted with Safety Essentials of the 
Customer which are published at the internet page of the 
Customer: www. Siemens Energy .sk/bezpecnost.  
13.3 The Supplier is obliged to acquaint its employees and other 
persons which conduct the works in connection with the delivery 
for the Customer including Supplier´s subsuppliers (“employees 
of the Supplier”) with the principles of occupational health and  
safety (OHS), fire safety and environmental protection 
(“principles ”) before starting their work for the Customer and shall 
ensure full compliance with legal regulations and these principles 
by these persons.  
13.4 If the Supplier intends to conduct activities associated with a risk 
for the Customer, the Supplier shall inform the Customer of such 
risk in writing in advance.  
13.5 The Supplier's employees may only operate in premises specified 
in the contract or reserved for the Supplier. In such premises, the 
Supplier ’s employees are obliged to follow all instructions for 
assuring occupational health and safety, i.e. the primary 
operating regulations for the premises, technical procedures, fire 
protection documentation and fire alarm guidelines.  
13.6 The Supplier shall inform the Customer in writing in advance if the 
Supplier will use its own technical equipment and tools at the 
Supplier's premises. The Supplier has full responsibility for the 
functionality and primarily the safety of such equipme nt. Upon 
Customer request, the Supplier shall provide accompanying and 
operating documentation for all equipment and installations.  
13.7 The Supplier is responsible in full for the qualifications of its 
employees. Upon Customer Request, the Supplier shall provide 
training, professional certification and medical records for the 
Supplier's employees.  
13.8 The Supplier is responsible in full for equipping its employees with 
adequate personal protective equipment ( “PPE”) in accordance 
with the outcomes of the risk assessment process. In extraordinary cases, the Customer may provide the Supplier's 
employees with the required PPE based on conditions agreed in 
advance.  
13.9 The Supplier is responsible for providing first aid for the Supplier ’s 
employees.  
13.10 The Supplier shall report all injuries suffered by the Supplier's 
employees at the Customer ’s premises without any undue delay. 
The Supplier shall request a representative of the Customer 
complete the “occupational accident record ” if necessary.  
13.11 The Supplier shall inform the Customer of all events that occur in 
the performance of the contract at the Customer ’s premises 
resulting in death or a serious occupational accident involving the 
Supplier ’s employee.  
13.12 In the event of a fire or other extraordinary incident requiring rapid 
evacuation, the Supplier ’s employees are obliged to follow the 
fire alarm guidelines for the building, the instructions provided by 
contact persons and instructions from the response commander. 
If the Supplier performs activities with an elevated fire risk at the 
Customer ’s premises, the Supplier shall complete the “hot work 
order ” form together with the Customer before starting such 
activities.  
13.13 If the Supplier delivers products subject to restrictions based on 
substances or informational specifications contained in legal 
regulations (e.g. REACH, RoHS), the Supplier shall declare such 
substances using the BOM check database (BOMcheck.net) or  
in another appropriate format provided by the Customer at the 
latest on the day of  the first  delivery of the product and in relation 
to regulations in force for the Supplier ’s or the Customer ’s 
jurisdiction or at the place of delivery specified by the Cus tomer. 
The Supplier shall declare all substances contained in the 
Siemens Energy  List of Declarable Substances in the manner 
identified above.  
13.14 The Supplier is not authorised to bring in hazardous chemicals 
and chemical substances in quantities of more than 1 litre (kg) to 
the Customer ’s buildings. If hazardous chemicals and 
substances are required to complete the agreed work, the 
Supplier must provide the Customer with a list and safety data 
sheets for all such substances and their usage is subject to the 
approval of the Customer ’s EMS Specialist.  
13.15 If the delivery includes goods that are classified as hazardous 
goods under international law, the Supplier shall inform the 
Customer in the manner agreed between the Customer and the 
Supplier on the date of order confirmation at the latest.  
13.16 Chemicals and chemical substances brought in by the Supplier 
that are not consumed in full on the same day must be removed 
by the Supplier at the end of the working day from the Customer's 
building or stored in the designated location until their complete 
usage.  
13.17 The Supplier shall remove empty and contaminated packaging 
from hazardous chemicals and chemical substances on the date 
they are emptied.  
13.18 The Supplier generating all such waste in the Customer's building 
is considered the waste generator and shall secure disposal at 
its own cost. If any of the obligations related to the Delivery 
according to the applicable legislation regulating the wa ste 
applies to the Customer, the Supplier is obliged to fulfil this 
obligation for the Customer.  
13.19 The Customer is authorised to conduct an audit of the Supplier's 
quality system. Section 12.3 of these Terms and Conditions shall 
apply in kind.  
13.20 The Supplier shall provide all necessary data and information in 
accordance with the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism 
(CBAM) statutory regulations in a timely manner upon request of 
Customer in order to meet the Customer´s external obligations. 
CBAM l atest developments as well as guidance can be accessed 
on the official Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism Website; 
currently available under the following link:  https:taxation -
customs.ec.europa.eu/carbon -border -adjustment -
mechanism_en  
XIV. Provisions Concerning Export Control Regulations  
14.1 The Customer shall not be obliged to perform under this contract 
if such performance shall be affected by any obstacles arising 
 
    
 
Siemens Energy, s.r.o.  7/7 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed  by Siemens AG  
 
from national or international regulations of international trade 
rules or upon embargoes or other sanctions.  
14.2 The Supplier shall comply with all applicable provisions of national 
and international law concerning export control regulations, 
customs duties and related taxes and fees and international trade 
law ( “international trade law ”) in relation to all delivered products 
and provided services. The Supplier shall procure all required 
export licenses and permits unless the Customer or another third 
party, and not the Supplier, is obliged to obtain such licenses and 
permits under applic able provisions of intern ational trade law.  
14.3 The Supplier shall immediately provide the Customer with all data 
and information in writing needed to permit the Customer to 
comply with all applicable provisions of international trade law 
related to the export, import or (if the event of re -sale) r e-export 
of specific products and services; such data and information must 
be provided by the agreed time of delivery at the latest. The 
Supplier shall provide the following for each individual product or 
service:  
 a) the “Export Control Classification Number ” in accordance with 
the “U.S. Commerce Control List ” (ECCN) if the goods are 
subject to “U.S. Export Administration Regulations ”; 
b)  all export numbers, specifically AL numbers, as defined in 
Community regulations if the goods are listed in Annex 1 to 
Council Regulation (EC) No. 428/2009;  
c) the statistical number of the goods as defined in the valid 
classification of goods for foreign trade statistics and classified in 
accordance with the HS (harmonised system);  
 d) details of the country of origin (in the case of non -preferential 
origin);  
e) a declaration from the supplier as to the preferential origin of 
the goods (in the case of European suppliers) or preferential 
certificate (for non -European suppliers) if required by the 
customer ( “data”) 
f) evidence of the country of origin of the iron and steel inputs 
used for the processing of the Products . 
14.4 In the event of any changes in the origin or specifications of the 
products or services or amendment of applicable provisions of 
international trade law, the Supplier shall immediately update 
such data and provide this data to the Customer in written form 
by the agreed date of delivery at the latest. The Supplier shall pay 
the Customer for all costs and other damages that occur because 
of the incompleteness or inaccuracy of the provided data.  
14.5 The Supplier shall enact all necessary organisational instructions 
and measures, in particular with respect to the security of 
business premises, packaging, transport, business partners, 
employees and information to ensure security within the supply 
chain under the requirements of internationally recognised 
initiatives per standards for securing and unifying global trade 
adopted by the World Customs Organisation (WCO Safe 
Framework of Standards) (e.g. Authorized Economic Operator 
AEO and the Customs – Trade Partnership Against Terrorism C -
TPAT). The Supplier shall secure goods and services for the 
Customer or a third party authorised by the Customer to prevent 
unauthorised access or handling. The Supplier shall only 
authorise trustworthy persons to acce ss the goods or services 
and shall commit its subcontractors to enact appropriate security 
measures. In addition to other rights and measures attributable 
to the Customer, the Customer is authorised to withdraw from the 
contract if these commitments are vi olated. If the Supplier may 
remedy these violations of the contract, the Customer is only 
authorised to withdraw from the contract if the defects endure 
after the expiry of an additional term provided by the Customer to 
remedy such issues.  
 
XV. Final Provisions  
15.1 In case any provision of the contract or Terms and Conditions 
herein  becomes invalid, non -recoverable, vague,  or ineffective, 
such matter  shall not apply to the validity, enforceability or validity 
of other provisions of the contract or Terms and Conditions 
herein.  In such case, the parties shall be  obliged to make all 
possible efforts to conclude a written addendum to the contract 
replacing such provision of the contract and being the most 
suitable one to the originally intended objective of the provision . 15.2 A written document, under the contract herein, is a document 
executed (i) in a printed copy and sent to the other party to the 
address of the other party specified in the contract, by registered 
post or via a courier delivery service or any other way of de livery 
enabling confirmation of delivery back to the sender or (ii) in 
electronic form and sent via e -mail with a secured electronic 
signature.  
15.3 The document shall be deemed as having been delivered on the 
third working day after its sending as specified in 15.2 herein 
even in case the recipient did not accept such document.  
15.4 The contractual relationship between parties shall be governed 
by Slovak law with the exclusion of application of the United 
Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of 
Goods. The contractual relationships  not governed by the 
contract or Terms and Conditions herein  shall be governed by the 
Commercial Code.  
15.5 All disputes arising out of the contract or in relation thereof  shall 
be resolved by the parties with an effort to reach an agreement. 
In case  no agreement is reached, the dispute shall be settled by 
a court within the defendant’s jurisdiction.  
15.6 The Terms and Conditions herein, together with documents 
forming annexes hereto, shall constitute the complete contract 
and replace any existing agreements between the contractual 
related to the subject of the contractual relationship. The parties 
agree th at there may be no agreements based on actual or future 
practice established between the parties or out of general 
business practices used or in the industry related to the subject 
of the contract herein beyond the scope of this contract.  
15.7 The contract may be amended by written and numbered 
amendments only,  signed by authorized representatives of both 
parties.  
15.8 The Customer shall be entitled to change the Terms and 
Conditions herein for contracts with repeated deliveries. The 
changes to the contract shall become effective within 30 (thirty) 
days from the day of delivery of the notification about change of 
the Ter ms and Conditions to the Supplier, pursuant to the 
provisions of 15.2 herein ; in this case the changed Terms and 
Conditions shall be applicable for deliveries completed after the 
changes come to effect.  The Supplier shall be entitled to refuse 
changes to t he Terms and Conditions herein and withdraw from 
the contract within 10 (ten) days from the day of delivery of 
notification on the changes to the Terms and Conditions herein.  
 
In Bratislava on 01st February  2024 
 