Unrestricted  Page  1 of 5  
  
 
Conditions  of Purchase  
Dated:  9 March  2023 
 
1. Order  and Confirmation  of Order  
1.1 Siemens Energy S.A. or any other company of the Siemens 
Energy group that issues the relevant order ( the “Customer ”) 
may cancel the order if the Supplier has not  confirmed 
acceptance of the order (confirmation) in writing  within two  
weeks  of receipt.  
1.2 Any alterations, amendments or additions to the order shall  
only become a part of the contract if the Customer accepts  
such in writing. In particular, the Customer is bound by the  
general  terms  and conditions  of the Supplier  only to the extent  
that such are in accordance with these Conditions of Purchase  or 
if the Custo mer agrees explicitly to such in writing. The ac - 
ceptance of deliveries or services as well as payments does  
not constitute  such  agreement.  
1.3 Any provisions in other documents provided by the Supplier  
(such as but not limited to specifications, data sheets, tech - 
nical documentation, advertising materials, order confirma - 
tions  and/or  shipping  documents)  regarding  legal  terms,  liabil- 
ity, restriction  of use, restriction  of application  and/or  restriction  
of suitability, or any other provision that changes the provi - 
sions  of these  Conditions  of Purchase  shall not be applicable.  
2. Rights  of Use 
2.1 The Supplier hereby grants the Customer the following non - 
exclusive,  transferable,  worldwide and  perpetual rights:  
2.1.1  to use the deliveries and services including related documen - 
tation, to integrate them into other products and to distribute  
them;  
2.1.2  to install,  launch,  test and operate  software  and its related  doc- 
umentation  (hereinafter  collectively  referred  to as "Software");  
2.1.3  to sublicense  the right of use under  section  2.1.2  above  to any 
company,  partnership  or other  legal  entity  which  directly  or in- 
directly controls, is controlled by or is under common control  
with the Customer (hereinafter referred to as "Affiliates") to  
contracted  third parties,  to distributors  and to end customers;  
2.1.4  to license to Affiliates and distributors the right to sublicense  
the right of use under  section  2.1.2  above  to end  customers;  
2.1.5  to use the Software for integration into other products and to  
copy the Software, or to allow Affiliates, contracted third par - 
ties or distributors to use  and copy the  Software;  
2.1.6  to distribute,  sell, hire out, lease  and make  ready  for download  
or make publicly available the Software, e.g. in the context of  
Application  Service  Providing  or in other  contexts,  and to copy  
the Software to the extent required, always provided that the  
number of licenses being used at any one time does not ex - 
ceed  the number  of licenses  purchased;  
2.1.7  to sublicense  the right of use under  section  2.1.6  above  to Af- 
filiates contracted  third parties and  distributors.  
2.2 In addition  to the rights  granted  in section  2.1 above,  the Cus- 
tomer, Affiliates and distributors are authorized to allow end  
customers  to transfer  the respective  licenses.  
2.3 All sublicenses granted by the Customer must contain appro - 
priate protection for the intellectual property rights of the Sup - 
plier in the Software, containing the same contractual provi - 
sions as used by the  Customer to protect its own intellectual  
property rights.  
2.4 The Supplier  shall,  in good  time but at the latest  by the time of 
order  confirmation,  inform  the Customer  in writing  whether  the 
deliveries and services contain Open Source  Components. In  
the context of this provision, "Open Source Components"  
means any software, hardware or other information that is pro - 
vided  royalty -free by the respective  licensor  to any user on the 
basis of a license with the right to modify and/or to di stribute  
(e.g. the GNU  General  Public  License  (GPL),  the GNU  Lesser  
GPL (LGPL), or the MIT License). Should the deliveries and  
services by the Supplier contain Open Source Components,  
the Supplier shall comply with all applicable open source li - 
cense terms and shall grant all those rights to the Customer  
and provide all information which Customer needs in order to  
comply  himself  with the applicable  license  terms.  In particular,  the Supplier must deliver to the Customer promptly after the  
order  is confirmed  the following:  
- A schedule  of all Open  Source  Components  used,  indi- 
cating the relevant license, its version and including a  
copy of the complete text of such license and including  
a reference to copyright and/or authorship. Such sched - 
ule must  have  an understandable  structure  and contain  
a table  of contents.  
- The complete source code of the relevant open source  
software,  including  scripts  and information  regarding  its 
generating  environment  in so far as the applicable  open  
source  conditions  require  this. 
2.5 The Supplier  shall,  in good  time but at the latest  by the time of 
order  confirmation,  inform  the Customer  in writing  whether  any 
open source  licenses used by Supplier might be subject to a  
Copyleft Effect, which could affect the products of the Cus - 
tomer.  In the context  of this provision,  “Copyleft  Effect”  means  
that the provision  of the open  source  license  requires  that cer- 
tain of the Supp lier’s products,  as well as any products  derived  
from such products, may only be redistributed  in accordance  
with the terms of the open source license, e.g. only if the  
source code is disclosed. In case any open source licenses  
used by Supplier would be subject to a Copyleft Effect, the  
Customer shall be entitled to cancel the order within two  
weeks of receipt of such information without any cost and lia - 
bility consequences  for the Customer.  
2.6 Should  the order  involve  production  with special  requirements  
in terms of a work contract according to Article 363 et seq  
Swiss Code of Obligations, the Customer shall in case of a  
design or development order have the unlimited right to the  
intellectual  property  and the exclusive  use of all related  design  
and development  results.  The designs  and developments  shall 
not be made available to any third party in whole or in  part 
without  the express  written  approval  of the Customer,  nor shall  
such be  used for  any own or  other purpose.  
3. Term  and Penalty  for Breach  
3.1 For the purposes of establishing the timeliness of delivery the  
relevant  point  in time is the date of receipt  at the place  of des- 
tination/delivery  according  to Incoterms  ® 2020  designated  by 
the Customer, and for deliveries involving installation, erec - 
tion, commissioning or assembly as well as for services (in - 
cluding  rectification)  the relevant  point  in time shall be the date 
of acceptance  by the Customer.  
3.2 If any delay  in delivery  or performance  or rectification  is antic - 
ipated, the Customer shall be notified immediately and its de - 
cision sought. In order to conform with delivery or performance  
deadlines the Supplier shall in good time undertake all suitable  
measures  (e.g. shift work,  overtime,  any necessary  expedited  
transport) in order to avoid any delay. The costs for such  
measures shall  be borne  by the Supplier.  
3.3 In the event  of non-compliance  with the agreed  delivery  or per- 
formance deadlines, the Customer may, without setting any  
further deadline, waive the right to performance and rescind  
the contract without any cost and liability consequences for  the 
Customer.  The Customer  reserves  the right to claim  dam- ages  
as permitted  by law. 
3.4 If the agreed deadlines are exceeded, the Customer may de - 
mand a penalty to the amou nt of 1 % for each commenced  
day of delay, but not exceeding 15 % of the total contract  
amount. The payment of a penalty by the Supplier shall not  
affect  any other  contractual  or legal  rights  based  on late deliv- 
ery or performance and shall not release th e Supplier from any  of 
its contractual  or legal obligations  arising  from the order.  
3.5 In case of postponed or subsequently -agreed delivery or per - 
formance deadlines the agreed penalty shall apply accord - 
ingly.  

Unrestricted  Page  2 of 5  
 3.6 The penalty  is due irrespective  of whether  or not the Customer  
expressly reserves the right to claim the delay penalty upon  
acceptance of  the delayed  delivery.  
4. Deliveries  and Services  of the Supplier  
4.1 Unless agreed otherwise, DDP (named place of destination)  
Incoterms ® 2020 shall apply, if (a) the seat of the Supplier  
and the named  place  of destination  are within  the same  coun - 
try or (b) the seat of the Supplier  and the named  place  of des- 
tination  are within the European Union. If neither (a) nor (b)  
are fulfilled,  the DAP (named  place  of destination)  Incoterms  
® 2020  shall apply,  unless  agreed  otherwise.  
4.2 The Supplier warrants that deliveries and services will be in  
accordance with the contract and  in perfect condition, free of  
any defect of title or deficiency, produced with raw materials  
free of any defect and fully functional without limitation and fit  
for the intended purpose. This shall include in particular com - 
pliance  with official  and legal  provisions  and safety  regulations  
of the countries  of production,  destination  as well as the coun - 
try of the Customer. The Supplier guarantees that deliveries  
and services at the time of transfer of risk are in accordance  
with the current  state  of the art. The Customer  may return  any 
defective goods to the Supplier at the Supplier's cost and de - 
mand replacement  in accordance  with the order.  
4.3 Any services of the Supplier shall be provided with the great - 
est care with the use of qualified and  trained  personnel.  
4.4 Deliveries and services of the Supplier and sub -suppliers shall  be 
subject to the Customer’s quality assurance system in ac - 
cordance  with ISO9001  / EN29001.  The Customer’s  suppliers  
and sub -suppliers shall  be assessed accordingly.  
5. Trans fer of Benefit  and Risk  
5.1 For deliveries involving installation, erection, commissioning  
or assembly as well as services risk shall transfer to the Cus - 
tomer  on acceptance and for deliveries not involving services  
risk shall transfer to the Customer upon receipt by the Cus - 
tomer at the place of destination/delivery according to Inco - 
terms  ® 2020 designated  by the Customer.  
5.2 For deliveries involving installation, erection, commissioning  
or assembly as well as services benefit of the goods and ser - 
vices shall transfer to the Customer as soon as provided and  
for deliveries not involving services, benefit of the goods shall  
transfer to the Customer upon receipt by the Customer at the  
place of destination/delivery according to Incoterms ® 2020  
designated by  the Customer.  
6. Packing  and Dispatch  
6.1 Unless otherwise agreed, the costs for adequate packaging  
shall be borne by the Supplier. The packing shall be environ - 
mental friendly and shall ensure protection against any dam - 
age, soiling and  moisture  during  transport and  storage.  
6.2 In case transportation costs are borne  by the Customer,  notice  
of readiness  for dispatch  shall be given  together  with the infor- 
mation set out in section 6.3 hereunder. On Customer’s re - 
quest, a Siemens Energy routing order tool must be used by  
the Supplier. Transport shall be arranged by the Supplier at  
the lowest possible cost, insofar as the Customer ha s not re - 
quested a particular method of delivery or the conclusion of  
the contract  for carriage  by the Customer.  Any supplementary  
costs arising from non -conformity with the transport require - 
ments, including any costs arising from the Supplier not havin g 
used  the Siemens  Energy  routing  order,  shall be borne  by the 
Supplier.  In case  DAP/DDP  (place  of destination)  Incoterms  ® 
2020  is agreed,  the Customer  may also determine  the method  
of transportation.  
6.3 Each delivery shall include a packing note or delivery note with  
details  of the contents  as well as  the complete  order  number.  
6.4 As far as the Customer and the Supplier agree that the Sup - 
plier orders the transport of deliveries containing dangerous  
goods for account  of the Customer, the  Supplier is  responsible  to 
transfer the necessary legally required dangerous goods  data 
to the freight forwarder nominated by the Customer when  placing 
the transport order. The Supplier is in these cases also  
responsible for packing, marking, labeling etc.  in compliance  
with the regulation to the  mode(s)  of transport used.  
6.5 If the Customer informs the Supplier that following the initial  
transport another transport with a different mode of transport  
is scheduled,  the Supplier  will also follow  the relevant  legal  requirements  concerning  dangerous  goods  with regard  to 
such on -going  transport.  
7. Payment,  Invoices  
7.1 Unless  otherwise  agreed,  payments  shall be due and payable  
no later than 60 (sixty) days  net. If payment  is made  within  14 
(fourteen) days, the Customer is entitled to a 3% (three per - 
cent) discount. The period for payment shall commence as  
soon as any delivery or service is completed and correctly is - 
sued  invoice  is received..  
7.2 The order number as well as the number of each individual  
item shall be detailed in invoices. Insofar as any such details  
are omitted, invoices shall not be payable. Copies of invoices  
shall be marked  as duplicates.  
7.3 Insofar as the Supplier is required to provide material testing,  
test records or qualit y control documents or any other docu - 
mentation, such shall be a part of the requirements of the com - 
pleteness  of the delivery  and service.  A discount  shall also be 
allowed for should the Customer set off or withhold any pay - 
ments  to a reasonable  extent  because  of any deficiency  in the 
delivery or  service.  
7.4 Payment does not constitute an acknowledgement that the  
corresponding  deliveries  or services  were  provided  in accord - 
ance with the contract (in particular in  relation to quantity or  
quality).  Any rights of the Customer to claim shall therefore  
remain  unaffected  also after payment  for the deliveries  or ser- 
vices.  
 
8. Inspections  
8.1 The Supplier  shall  inspect  the delivery  for quantity  and quality  
before dispatch.  
8.2 The delivery shall be inspected by the Customer as soon as  
possible  after receipt  at the named  place  of destination  on the 
basis of random samples in relation to the type of delivery as  
well as quantity and any externally -recognizable transporta - 
tion damage or  other obvious  deficiencies.  
8.3 The obligation of immediate examination and notification ac - 
cording to Article 201 or Article 367 of the Swiss Code of Ob - 
ligations shall be waived. The Supplier recognizes or der noti - 
fications of defects without adherence to a notification period  
as obtained  in time.  
9. Warranty  
9.1 All claims  in relation  to rescission,  price  reduction,  rectification  
or replacement and damages according to Article 205 et seq  
or 368 Swiss  Code  of Obligations  shall be  reserved.  A right to 
claim rectification shall also exist in case of any purchase  
agreements. Rectification or replacement shall be carried out  
by the Supplier at the choice of the Customer. The Supplier  
shall be liable for any and all  costs, expenses and damages  
resulting  directly  to the Customer  by way of deficient  deliveries  
or services  regardless  of fault.  This shall  also apply  in case  of 
work contracts.  
9.2 Until proved to the contrary, during the entire warranty period  
it shall be assumed that any deficiency existed at the time of  
the transfer  of risk. 
9.3 The Customer reserves the right to retain any payment in  
whole or in part until, (i) the Supplier has completely fulfilled  
its duty to rectify the deficiency or the replacement delive ry in 
accordance with the contract, or (ii) the parties have agreed  
on other alternative measures, such as but not limited to re - 
scission,  price reduction  or damages  in a binding  manner.  
9.4 From the time of notification of a deficiency the Supplier shall  
bear the risk for deficient deliveries. The Supplier shall, addi - 
tionally – independently of the issue of fault – bear the costs  
incurred to remove, disassemble, return, reassemble, re -in- 
stall, re -construct, re -inspect and retest of deficient deliveries  
as well as all other costs (including internal costs), expenses  
and damage  of the Customer  in connection  with the complaint  
and rectification  of the deficiency.  
9.5 Should the Supplier fail to rectify (i.e. repair or replacement)  
within a reasonable time set by the Customer, the Customer  
is entitled, at the expense of the Supplier, to undertake any  
rectification  or replacement  itself  or arrange  for a third party  to 
do so. Any deficiency in deliveries or services detected at the  
time of acceptance, inspection o r commissioning may be rec - 
tified by the Customer itself or it may arrange for such to be  
rectified  by third parties  immediately  at the expense  of the 
Unrestricted  Page  3 of 5  
 Supplier without the need to set a further deadline if the Sup - 
plier delivered or provided such in delay.  The same shall ap - 
ply if the Customer has a particular interest in immediate rec - 
tification  or replacement  delivery  in case  of urgency  or in order  
to avoid  delay  itself.  
9.6 The warranty  period  shall be three  years,  unless  a longer  war- 
ranty  period  is given  by law. 
9.7 For deliveries not involving installation, erection, commission - 
ing, assembly  the warranty  period  begins  to run with receipt  at 
the place of destination named by the Customer. For deliver - 
ies involving  installation,  erection,  commissioning  or assembly  as 
well as for services the warranty period begins to run with  
acceptance  by the Customer.  Upon  delivery  to locations  
where  the Customer  is operating  outside  its premises,  the war- 
ranty  period  begins  by acceptance  by the end customer,  in no 
case  later than one year after  the transfer  of risk. 
9.8 In case  the Supplier  has redelivered  or rectified  in terms  of the 
warranty, the warranty period shall start anew. The warranty  
period shall extend for the period during which the deliveries  
cannot  be used  to the full extent as  a result  of deficiencies.  
9.9 Warranty claims shall expire one year after expiry of the war - 
ranty  period  set out in this section.  
9.10 Any further  or additional  legal  claims  are reserved.  
9.11 Inspections, directions or instructions by the Customer or by  
any person  acting  on behalf  of the Customer  shall not limit the 
right to claim under the contract, in particular with regard to  
deficiencies. In case the Supplier does not r egard the inspec - 
tions, directions or instructions as being reasonable or has  
other reservations against such, the Supplier shall notify the  
Customer of such without delay in writing and make sugges - 
tions for  improvement.  
10. Liability  for Intellectual  Property  Right  Infringements  
10.1 The Supplier guarantees that no intellectual property rights,  
including but not limited to copyright, constitute a hindrance  
for any use. 
10.2 In the event  that any third party  makes  any claims  against  the 
Customer or a n end customer of the Customer in relation to  
intellectual  property  rights,  the Customer  shall inform  the Sup- 
plier of such.  The Supplier shall indemnify the Customer  
against all costs (in particular including lawyers and court  
costs) and justified claims of third parties in connection with  
intellectual  property  rights.  
10.3 In addition the Customer may demand that the Supplier at its  
own expense  and without  delay  either  (i) obtains  a right of use 
from the party  in control  of the intellectual  property  right or, (ii) 
changes  those  parts  of delivery  infringing  the intellectual  prop- 
erty rights or exchanges such for parts which do not infringe  
the intellectual  property  rights.  
10.4 The right of the Customer to enforce any further legal cl aims  
shall not be affected  hereby.  
10.5 Any claims  for defects  as to title shall expire  in ten years  or the 
longer period  given  by law. 
11. Subcontracting  to Third  Parties  
Subcontracting  to third parties  shall  not take place  without  the 
prior written consent of the Customer and entitles the Cus - 
tomer to cancel in whole or in part and claim damages. Upon  
demand the Supplier shall make available to the Customer a  
list of the subcontractors  used  in connection  with its deliveries  
and services.  
12. Provided  Material,  Information  
12.1 The Supplier is obliged to examine components such as, e.g.  
raw material provided by the Customer or provided by the  
Supplier’s  suppliers,  manufacturers  or other  third parties  at the 
time of receipt of such componen ts as to whether these com - 
ponents show any obvious or hidden defects. In case any de - 
fects are discovered in the course of such inspections, the  
Supplier  shall immediately  inform  its suppliers  or – in case  the 
components are provided by the Customer – inform the Cus - 
tomer.  
12.2 Material and information provided by the Customer remains  
the property of the Customer and are to be stored, labeled as  
property of the Customer and administered separately at no  
expense  to the Customer.  Its use is limited  to the orders  of the 
Customer  only.  The Supplier  shall supply  replacements  in the 
event of reduction in value or loss. This also applies to the  
transfer  of allocated  material.  12.3 Any processing or transformation of the material and infor - 
mation shall take place for the Customer. The Customer shall  
immediately become owner of the new or transformed prod - 
uct. Should  this be impossible  for legal  reasons,  the Customer  
and the Supplie r hereby agree that the Customer shall be the  
owner  of the new product  at all times  during  the processing  or 
transformation. The Supplier shall keep the new product safe  
for the Customer at no extra cost to the Customer and in so  
doing  shall exercise the  duty of  care of a merchant.  
13. Tools,  Patterns,  Samples,  Confidentiality  
13.1 Any tools,  patterns,  samples,  models,  profiles,  drawings,  
specification, printing templates, gauges and other material  
provided by the Customer or made for the Customer, as well 
as any materials  derived  there  from,  shall remain  the property  
of the Customer and shall not be made available to any third  
party  nor used  for any other  purpose  than contractually  
agreed, except with the prior written consent of Customer.  
Such materials shall be protected against unauthorized ac - 
cess or use and shall be labeled as the property of the Cus - 
tomer. Notwithstanding any other rights, the Customer may  
demand  the immediate  return  of such  materials  if the Supplier  
breaches  its contractual  obligations.  
13.2 The Customer is not responsible for the content of any infor - 
mation, data, drawings, specifications and materials which it  
makes available to the Supplier in connection with the order.  
The Supplier shall have a responsibility to c heck that it is up  
to date and correct and, if this should not be the case or in  
case of any possible contradictions, the Supplier shall inform  
the Customer of such without delay in writing and shall seek  
clarification as to how to proceed. Any incorrectne ss shall not  
affect the responsibility of the Supplier in relation to its scope  
of deliveries  and services.  
13.3 The Supplier shall treat as confidential and shall not make  
available to third parties any data, drawings, specifications,  
materials, knowledge or f indings, documents, terms of refer - 
ence,  business  processes  or other  information  that it receives  
from or about the Customer in the context of performing the  
deliveries and services, as well as the conclusion of the con - 
tract and any results, with regard  to third parties – and shall  
keep the same confidential beyond the term of the contract – 
for as long as and insofar  as such  information  has not become  
publicly known by legal means or the Customer has not con - 
sented  in writing  to its transfer  in the individual  case.  The Sup- 
plier shall use this information exclusively for the purpose of  
performing the deliveries and services. The Supplier shall  
make Information available only to those employees who need  
the Information for the fulfillment of their du ties and shall en - 
sure that such employees are also subject to a duty to treat  
such information as confidential.  Insofar as the Customer  
agrees to any subcontracting to third parties, such shall be  
made  subject  to a corresponding duty  in writing.  
14. Product  Liability  
14.1 If the Customer is made subject to any claims by third parties  
based  on domestic  or foreign  product  liability  law in connection  
with deliveries by the Supplier, the Customer shall notify the  
Supplier of such. The Supplier shall indemnify the Customer  
against all justified claims of third parties as well as the costs  
(including  in particular  lawyers  and court  costs),  provided  such  
are caused  by a deficiency  in the deliveries  from the Supplier.  
The Supplier shall support Customer in the dispute with the  
injured.  
14.2 In addition, the Supplier shall reimburse the Customer for all  
costs caused thereby as a result of measures the Customer  
must take in order to prevent any risk, such as but not limited  
to warnings  or precautionary  recall  actions  of a defective  prod- 
uct. Any costs for the determination of the risk (in particular  
expert  costs)  as well as internal  administration  and processing  
costs of the Customer shall be borne by the Supplier unless  
the Supplier  does not itself provide  the proof of  cause.  
15. Assignment  of Claims,  Set-off 
Any assignment of claims existing in relation to the Customer  
as well as any set-off of counterclaims  is only allowed  with the 
prior written  approval  of the Customer.  
16. Right  to Terminate  and Cancel  
16.1 In addition to any rights provided by law to withdraw from or  
cancel  a contract,  the Customer  may cancel  the contract  in 
Unrestricted  Page  4 of 5  
 whole or in part in case (a) the Supplier is in delay with its  
delivery or service and such delay – despite a corresponding  
demand  notice  by Customer  – persists  for more  than 2 weeks  
after receipt  of such  demand  notice,  or in case  (b) that the ad- 
herence to the contract by the Customer cannot reasonably  
be expected from the Cust omer because of a reason attribut - 
able to the Supplier and taking into consideration the circum - 
stances in the individual case as well both parties’ interests.  
This might,  in particular,  apply  in case  of an actual  or possible  
deterioration  of the Supplier’s  financial  situation  thus threaten - 
ing the due fulfillment of the Supplier’s obligations under the  
contract.  
16.2 The Customer may also terminate the contract in case insol - 
vency  proceedings  or similar  proceedings  in relation  to the as- 
sets of  the Supplier are applied  for or commenced.  
16.3 In case of a termination by the Customer the Customer may  
continue  to utilize  existing  facilities,  deliveries  and services  al- 
ready performed by the Supplier in exchange for reasonable  
payment.  
17. Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Security in the Supply  
Chain  
17.1 The Supplier  is obliged  to comply  with the laws of the applica - 
ble legal system(s). In particular, the Supplier shall not en - 
gage,  actively  or passively,  nor directly  or indirectly  in any form 
of bribery,  in any violation  of basic  human  rights  of employees  
or any child  labor.  Moreover,  the Supplier  shall be responsible  
for the health and safety of its employees and shall fulfill the  
applicable minimum wage requirements. By acting in accord - 
ance  with the applicable  environmental  laws the Supplier  shall  
take adequate  measures  to avoid  the deployment  of so-called  
conflict  minerals  and shall  create  transparency  over the origin  
of raw materials.  The Supplier  shall  provide  a protected  griev - 
ance  mechanism for its own employees to report possible vi - 
olations of this Code of Conduct and will use reasonable ef - 
forts to promote  this Code  of Conduct  among  its suppliers..  
17.2 The Supplier shall provide necessary organizational instruc - 
tions  and take measures,  particularly  with regard  to the follow - 
ing security:  premises  security,  packaging  and transport,  busi- 
ness  partner,  personnel  and information  in order  to guarantee  
the security  in the supply  chain  according  to the requirements  
of respective internationally recognized initiatives based on  
the WCO  SAFE  Framework  of Standards  (e.g. AEO,  C-TPAT).  
The Supplier  shall protect  the deliveries  and services  provided  
to the Customer  or provided  to third parties  designated  by the 
Customer  against  unauthorized  access  and manipulation.  The 
Supplier  shall  only deploy  reliable  personnel  for those  deliver - 
ies and services and shall obligate any of its suppliers to take  
equivalent  security  measures.  
17.3 In addition to other rights and remedies the Customer may  
have, the Customer may terminate the contract in case of  
breach of these obligations by the Supplier. However, pro - 
vided that the Supplier's breach of contract is capable of rem - 
edy, the Customer's  right to terminate  is subject  to the proviso  
that such  breach  has not been  remedied  by the Supplier  within  
a reasonable grace  period  set by the Customer.  
18. Product  Conformity,  Product  Related  Environmental  
Protection, Dangerous Goods, Occupational Health and  
Safety  
18.1 Should the Supplier deliver products to which product related  
statutory and legal requirements apply in view of their further  
marketing in the European Economic Area or to which corre - 
sponding requirements apply regarding other countries noti - 
fied by the Customer t o the Supplier, then the Supplier must  
ensure  compliance  of the products  with these  requirements  at 
the time of transfer  of risk. Furthermore,  the Supplier  shall en- 
sure that all documents and information which are necessary  
to provide  the proof  of conformity  of products  with the respec - 
tive requirements can be furnished immediately to the Cus - 
tomer upon  request.  
18.2 Should  the delivery  contain  goods  set out in the so-called  “List 
of Declarable Substances”, ( www.bomcheck.net/suppliers/re - 
stricted - 
and-declarable -substances)  applicable  at the time of the order  
or which  are subject  to statutorily -imposed  substance  re- 
strictions  and/or  information  requirements  (e.g. REACH,  
RoHS), the Supplier shall declare such substances and pro - 
vide information  as requested  in the web database  BOMCheck  (www.bomcheck.net)  no later than the date of first 
delivery. With respect to stat utorily imposed substance re - 
strictions the foregoing shall only apply with respect to laws  
applicable at the registered seat of the Supplier or the Cus - 
tomer or at the designated place of destination requested by  
the Customer.  
18.3 Should  the delivery  contain  goods  which  are classified  as dan- 
gerous goods according to international regulations, the Sup - 
plier shall inform Customer hereof in a form agreed upon be - 
tween the Supplier and the Customer, but in no case later than  
the date of order confirmat ion. The requirements concerning  
dangerous goods in sections 6.4 and 6.5 shall remain unaf - 
fected.  
18.4 The Supplier is obliged to comply with all legal requirements  
regarding  the health  and safety  of the personnel  employed  by 
the Supplier. It must ensure that  the health and safety of its  
personnel  as well as indirect  sub-contractors  employed  to per- 
form the deliveries  and services are  protected.  
19. Cybersecurity  
19.1 Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and technical  
measures to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, integrity  
and availability  of Supplier  Operations  as well as products  and 
services. These measures shall be consistent with good in - 
dustry practice and shall include an appropriate information  
security management system cons istent with standards such  
as ISO/IEC  27001  or IEC 62443  (to the extent  applicable).  
19.2 “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes and sys - 
tems (including information systems), data (including Cus - 
tomer  data), personnel, and sites, used or processed by Sup - 
plier from time to time in the performance  of this Agreement.  
19.3 Should products or services contain software, firmware, or  
chipsets:  
19.3.1  Supplier shall implement appropriate standards, processes  
and methods to prevent, identify, evaluate and repair any vul - 
nerabilities,  malicious  code,  and security  incidents  in products  
and services which shall be consistent with good industry  
practice and standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443  
(to the extent  applicable);  
19.3.2  Supplier shall continue to support and provide services to re - 
pair, update, upgrade and maintain products and services in - 
cluding the provision of patches to Customer remedying vul - 
nerabilities  for the reasonable  lifetime  of the products and ser- 
vices;  
19.3.3  Supplier shall provide to Customer a bill of materials identify - 
ing all third -party software components contained in the prod - 
ucts. Third -party software shall be up -to-date at the time of  
delivery  to Customer;  
19.3.4  Supplier shall grant to  Customer the right, but Customer shall  
not be obliged, to test or have tested products for malicious  
code  and vulnerabilities  at any time,  and shall adequately  sup- 
port Customer;  
19.3.5  Supplier shall provide Customer a contact for all information  
security  related  issues  (available  during  business  hours).  
19.4 Supplier shall promptly report to Customer all relevant infor - 
mation security incidents occurred or suspected and vulnera - 
bilities discovered in any Supplier Operations, services and  
products,  if and to the extent  Customer  is or is likely  to be ma- 
terially  affected.  
19.5 Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its  
subcontractors and suppliers shall, within a reasonable time,  
be bound by obligations similar to  the provisions of this section  
19. 
19.6 Upon Customer’s request, Supplier shall provide written evi - 
dence of its compliance with this section 19 including generally  
accepted  audit  reports (e.g.  SSAE -16 SOC  2 Type  II). 
20. Export  Control  and Foreign  Trade  Data  Regulations  
    
Unrestricted  Page  5 of 5  
 -  
20.1 For all products to be delivered and services to be provided 
according to this agreement , Supplier shall comply with all 
applicable export control, customs and foreign trade 
regulations (“ Foreign Trade Regulations ”) and shall obtain 
all necessary export licenses, unless Customer  or any party 
other than Supplier is required to apply for the export licenses 
pursuant to the applicable Foreign Trade Regulations.  
20.2 In particular, Supplier represents and warrants that none of its 
products nor its services provided under this agreement 
contain products and/or services restricted for import under 
the Foreign Trade Regulations which, in any case, include the 
Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 2022/263 or 
765/2006, each as amended, and import restrictions enforced 
by the U.S. Custom s and Border Protection.  
20.3 Supplier shall advise Customer  in writing as early as possible 
but not later than two weeks after receipt of order any 
information and data required by Customer  to comply with all 
Foreign Trade Regulations for the Products and Serv ices 
applicable in the countries of export and import as well as re -
export in case of resale. In any  case , Supplier shall provide 
Customer  for each product and service:  
(i) the “Export Control Classification Number“ 
according to the U.S. Commerce Control List 
(ECCN) if the product is subject to the U.S. Export 
Administration Regulations; and  
(ii) all applicable export list numbers; and  
(iii) the statistical commodity code according to the 
current commodity classification for foreign trade 
statistics and the HS (Harmonized  System) 
coding; and  
(iv) the country of origin (non -preferential origin); and,  
(v) upon request of Customer : Supplier’s declaration 
for preferential origin (in case of European 
suppliers) or preferential certificates (in case of 
non-European suppliers) . 
 
20.4 In case of any alterations to origin and/or characteristics of the 
products or services and/or to the applicable Foreign Trade 
Regulations Supplier shall update the Export Control and 
Foreign Trade Data as early as possible but not later than two 
weeks aft er receipt of order.  
20.5 Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage 
incurred by Customer  due to any breach of the obligations 
according to 20.1 to 20.3. 
 
21. Reservation  Clause  
The Customer shall not be obligated to fulfill the contract if  
such  fulfillment  is prevented  by any impediments  arising  out of 
national and international foreign trade or customs require - 
ments or  any embargos  or other  sanctions.  
22. Mention  as Reference  Customer  
Only upon the Customer’s prior written approval, the Supplier  
shall mention the Customer as reference customer and/or  
make  reference  to products  or services  which  the Supplier  has 
developed for  the Customer.  
23. Dispute  Settlement  and Applicable  Law 
Spanish substantive law shall apply, excluding the provisions  
of the United Nations Law on the Sale of Goods of 11 April  
1980.  
The Court  of jurisdiction  shall be Madrid.  