Inclusion  and 
Diversity
Policy  Statement
03Foreword  by the Executive  Board
Our commitment
Our principles
Our approach04
05
07
3Policy Statement | Our aim toward inclusion and diversity
Foreword by the 
Executive Board
In this Policy Statement, we explicitly 
commit ourselves to living our values 
and being respectful, open, and 
inclusive.
By following this Policy, we enable an 
inclusive work environment where 
people feel respected, engaged, able to 
speak up and be themselves. It also 
helps to remove barriers and create 
opportunities under which everyone can 
participate on equal terms in a non -
discriminatory work setting.
Across our entire company, all our 
employees are to respect the dignity and 
diversity of all people.
Thank you for your commitment.
Your Executive Board team
Christian Bruch ,Maria Ferraro, 
Karim Amin, Tim Holt, Anne -Laure de 
Chammard, Vinod Philip, 
and Siemens Gamesa CEO Jochen 
Eickholt We understand the importance of a 
workforce with diverse perspectives to 
turn ideas into reality. We are proud to 
employ colleagues from around 150 
nationalities across 90 countries and we 
want everyone to bring their whole self 
to work and reach their full potential.
We believe inclusion and diversity creates 
more opportunity for success. It doesn’t 
matter the ethnic origin, culture, religion, 
age, disability, skin color, gender, sexual 
identity or orientation, or worldview – 
everyone has an equal part to play in 
energizing society.
To emphasize the relevance of inclusion 
and diversity for our company, Maria 
Ferraro is Siemens Energy’s Chief 
Financial Officer and Chief Inclusion and 
Diversity Officer. 
We are committed to conduct business 
responsibly and to embed environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) criteria into 
every decision -making process. This 
Policy Statement sets the principles and 
guidelines for how our company – 
both Siemens Energy and Siemens 
Gamesa –will enhance inclusion and 
diversity throughout the organization. It 
builds upon our Business Conduct 
Guidelines and our People and Culture 
foundation. Moreover, it reinforces our 
commitment to a thriving environment 
where everyone can flourish.
4
Maria Ferraro,
Member of the Executive Board, Chief Financial 
Officer, and Chief Inclusion and Diversity Officer
Siemens Energy •The UN Women Empowerment 
Principles
•The UN Standards of Conduct for 
Business Tackling Discrimination 
against LGBTI People (the Standards) 
•The UN Global Compact Principles, 
specifically principle 6 “The 
elimination of discrimination in 
respect of employment and 
occupation” 
•The UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), encompassing in 
particular, SDG 4 “Quality education”, 
SDG 5 “Gender equality”, SDG 8 
“Decent work and economic growth” 
and SDG 10 “Reduced inequalities”
•The ILO International Labor Standards 
on Equality of opportunity and 
treatmentAs members of the UN Global Compact, 
Siemens Energy and Siemens Gamesa are 
committed to doing business in a way 
that benefits society and protects people. 
We consider the following guidelines in 
our inclusion and diversity framework:
Our commitment
Inclusion and diversity are not just moral imperatives – they are business 
imperatives with far -reaching effects on our people, our organization, and the 
societies we are operating in. We are committed to having an open and 
inclusive company culture characterized by respect, diversity, and welcoming 
workplaces.
5Our principles
We are fully aware of the responsibility that our work entails as we 
contribute to a sustainable society. We strive to become an even 
more inclusive and diverse company for our employees, our 
customers, and for society at large. Everyone in the organization is 
encouraged to hold each other accountable to live up to these 
principles.
•We do not tolerate discrimination, 
sexual or any other form of 
harassment, or inappropriate 
behavior toward individuals or 
groups.
•We pay fair wages for labor and 
adhere to all applicable wage and 
compensation laws globally. We 
observe “equal pay” principles and do 
not discriminate on the basis of 
gender.
•We guarantee equal opportunity and 
equal treatment, without regard to 
ethnic origin, culture, religion, age, 
disability, skin color, gender, sexual 
identity or orientation, or worldview.These principles are anchored in our 
Business Conduct Guidelines. We apply 
these principles of respect to each other 
and third parties with whom we interact, 
including our suppliers, customers, and 
business partners.
•We respect the personal dignity, 
privacy, and rights of each individual 
and thus do not compromise on 
inclusion.
•We believe diversity enriches our 
workplace.
•We work together, without regard to 
ethnic origin, culture, religion, age, 
disability, skin color, gender, sexual 
identity or orientation, or worldview.
Siemens Energy is a 
trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG.

7Our approach
Definitions
We use “inclusion” to describe our 
commitment to being an open and 
inclusive company, striving to create 
safe, welcoming workplaces with a 
culture that encourages equality and 
belonging. 
We use “diversity” to describe our 
commitment to recognizing and 
respecting the differences between 
people whilst valuing the contribution 
everyone can make to our business, 
without any tolerance for discrimination 
or bias of any kind. 
Focus areas
We embed inclusion and diversity in 
everything we do by using a holistic 
frame built around four strategic focus 
areas:
Equity: We recognize the unique needs 
of each individual or group and we 
remove barriers and create opportunities 
under which everyone can participate on 
equal terms.
Belonging: We make our mix work by 
creating an inclusive culture where 
people feel respected, engaged, able to 
speak up and be themselves.Society & Partnerships: We work 
together, internally and externally, with 
customers and partners to support us in 
becoming more diverse and inclusive.
Accountable Leaders: Our leaders are 
accountable and, internally and publicly, 
champion diversity, equity, and 
inclusion.
Roles and responsibilities
The responsibility for inclusion and 
diversity is shared by everyone across 
the organization.
Executive and senior management are 
expected to lead by example, set the 
appropriate tone from the top, and 
ensure our teams understand the 
importance of acting in accordance with 
our open and inclusive company culture.
Managers are expected to demonstrate 
inclusive behaviors, respecting diverse 
perspectives while supporting and 
empowering our employees to become 
and be the best version of themselves.
All employees are expected to be an 
active part of our inclusive and diverse 
workplace through valuing diverse 
thinking and backgrounds, seeking to 
understand and respect others, and 
demonstrating inclusive behaviors.

8Inclusion and diversity in action
Ensuring that our open and inclusive 
culture is sustained in our business, we 
prioritize action in:
•Having a diverse workforce that is a 
fair representation of the societies 
and the communities we serve.
•Developing inclusion - and diversity - 
related policies, practices, actions, 
and initiatives to ensure continued 
effectiveness, and monitoring and 
evaluating progress against this 
Policy.
•Complying with all relevant applicable 
legislation, regulations, and 
standards.
•Strengthening a progressive approach 
toward inclusion and diversity by 
working in partnership with our 
employee networks to ensure that we 
understand their needs and 
expectations, celebrate days of 
significance, and improve 
employment outcomes and the day -
to-day lived experience of our people.Governance
In order to support the principles of this 
Policy, our company implements a solid 
governance framework that is based on 
an appropriate assignment of 
governance, management and tasks.
The Inclusion and Diversity Decision 
Board is comprised of top leaders acting 
as a sounding board for the global 
inclusion and diversity strategy and its 
members commit to cascade central 
decisions at business area level. The 
board is sponsored by two Executive 
Board members.
The Inclusion and Diversity Global 
Advisory Council is a global group of 
inclusion and diversity leaders, experts, 
and business allies that bring the 
perspective of the major markets where 
our customers and people are 
represented, and cascade and customize 
central decisions to regional hubs.
The Inclusion and Diversity Regional 
Councils coordinate the implementation 
of the inclusion and diversity strategy in 
their regions or sub -hubs, and report 
back on progress, priorities, and 
employee feedback to the Global 
Advisory Council.

9
Thank you for implementing this Policy and ensuring its integration across all aspects 
of our business.
Siemens  Energy  and Siemens  Gamesa  2023