Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Respect for Human 
Rights and 
Environmental 
Protection
Policy Statement
 
Our commitment 06
 
Our principles 10
 
Our approach 12Policy Statement | Table of Content 
2
 304 Foreword by the Executive Board
06 Our commitment to respect human 
rights and environmental protection
09 Our focus
10 Our principles12 Our approach to implementing human 
rights and environmental due diligence 
obligations
12	 Risk management
12	 Risk analysis
13	 Preventive measures
14	 Complaint (grievance) mechanism
15	 Remediation
15	 Documentation and reporting
17 Our approach to effective control and 
continuous development
Foreword by the  
Executive Board
 
“Let´s energize society” – this is what Siemens Energy 
stands for. Our goal is to supply people with affordable, 
reliable, and sustainable energy – worldwide. A secure 
energy supply is the key to health, high standards of living, 
and education.  
Siemens Energy executes major energy projects around  
the world. These projects impact people’s lives and their 
environment.  
We are fully aware of the responsibility that our work 
entails. As a direct result, respect for human rights and 
natural resources is a top priority for us. It is an expression 
of responsible corporate action and a guiding principle for 
our activities along the entire value chain.
This is why we are committed to identifying and assessing 
potential human rights and environmental risks or vio- 
lations in connection with our business activities. We are 
also committed to preventing and responsibly mitigating 
risks that we identify. In this context, the protection of 
those impacted is of particular importance. The UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises serve as our 
compass. This is how we put sustainability into action.
We have also adapted our existing risk management system 
to meet the requirements of the German Supply Chain Due 
Diligence Act that took effect in early 2023. In this regard, 
we have appointed Dr. Anita Schieffer as an experienced 
and high-impact Human Rights Officer. With our annual and risk-based analysis, we identify and 
mitigate human rights and environmental risks in our 
company and in the supply chain. Our robust complaint 
procedure helps us achieve this by carefully and thoroughly 
investigating every allegation.
The following policy statement builds upon our Siemens 
Energy Business Conduct Guidelines and our Supplier Code 
of Conduct. Moreover, it solidifies our commitment to 
human rights and environmental protection for our own 
business and our supply chain.
We believe that Siemens Energy will only succeed in the 
long run if the impact of our business is in harmony with 
the needs of society and our environment. In this policy 
statement, we explicitly commit ourselves to respecting 
human rights and protecting the environment. We have 
clear expectations for our employees in this regard. These 
expectations require the attention and commitment of each 
and every one of us, day in and day out.
Thank you for your commitment.
4Policy Statement | Foreword by the Executive Board
Dr. Christian Bruch
President and Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Sustainability OfficerMaria Ferraro
Executive Board Member and
Chief Financial OfficerKarim Amin
Executive Board Member
Tim Oliver Holt
Executive Board Member 
and Labor DirectorAnne-Laure Parrical 
de Chammard
Executive Board MemberVinod Philip
Executive Board Member
 5
Our commitment to 
respect human rights 
and environmental 
protection
Building and maintaining a sustainable and fair supply chain is a core 
element of our human rights strategy and helps shape the responsible 
transformation of the energy sector. Central to our sustainability program  
is our goal of decarbonizing energy systems along the entire value chain.
• the International Bill of Human Rights
• the European Convention on Human Rights
• the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles on Multi-  
national Enterprises and Social Policy
• the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work
• the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
• the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
• the UN Global Compact Principles
• the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), specificaly 
SDG 8 “Decent work and economic growth”As a member of the UN Global Compact, 
Siemens Energy is committed to respecting 
human rights and protecting the environment 
and climate. We consider the following guide-
lines in our human rights strategy: 
Dr. Anita Schieffer, Group Compliance Officer  
and Human Rights OfficerPolicy Statement | Our commitment to respect human rights and environmental protection
6
We are committed to identifying and minimizing 
potential adverse human rights and environ-
mental impacts of our global business activities 
and to preventing, ending, or minimizing actual 
violations of human rights or negative environ-
mental impacts.
These principles are anchored in our Business 
Conduct Guidelines and Supplier Code of 
Conduct as guidelines for our employees, 
suppliers, business partners, and customers.
 7 7
Policy Statement | Our focus
8
Our risk analysis has identified the following 
human rights and environmental risk areas for 
our own business and our suppliers:
• Freedom of association  
(collective bargaining)
• Health and safety at work
• Prohibition of discrimination
• Fair remuneration
• Prohibition of forced labor 
• Respect for human rights by security forces
• Ban on child labor
 
 
 
 
 In implementing our due diligence obligations, 
we consider the rights of people who may be 
directly affected by our business activities along 
our global supply chains.   
 
Our human rights and environmental due dili-
gence obligations focus on the interests of our 
global employees as well as the employees of 
our suppliers.Our focus
Siemens Energy is a leading global energy techno- 
logy company that has 92,000 employees in over 
90 countries. Our value chains are particularly 
challenging because of the complexity of issues 
that arise in our business, our large number of 
locations, and our broad range of business partners. Policy Statement | Our focus
 9
1 Tripartite ILO Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work and its Follow-up (mainly covering the following topics: elimination of child labor, elimination of forced labor, prohibition of 
discrimination, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining).Our principles
We expect our employees and business partners to adhere to 
the binding human rights and environmental principles as 
defined in our Business Conduct Guidelines and Supplier Code 
of Conduct and to ensure compliance with these principles 
along the value chain. This is achieved in accordance with the 
relevant ILO conventions1 and applicable law.Policy Statement | Our principles
10
We focus on the following areas:
• Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining
• Occupational health and safety standards
• Prohibition of discrimination
• Fair remuneration
• Prohibition of forced labor
• Respect for human rights by security forces
• Ban on child labor
 11
Our approach to imple-
menting human rights and 
environmental due diligence 
obligations
Risk management
The Executive Board of Siemens Energy priori-
tizes the protection of human rights and the 
environment in global business activities. It has 
also defined clear areas of responsibilities for 
these priorities.  
 
Our Human Rights Officer monitors and reports 
on human rights compliance to the Executive 
Board on a regular and ad hoc basis. This re- 
porting includes human rights and environ-
mental risks from our risk analysis, findings  
from complaints received, and information on 
the effectiveness of our preventive and remedial 
measures.  
 The Human Rights Officer has full authority to 
carry out assigned tasks. The Human Rights 
Officer is also given the financial and human 
resources necessary to carry out the tasks.  
The execution of appropriate due diligence or 
mitigation activities has been delegated to the 
business functions. For our supply chain, we 
have added processes and measures to our 
company-wide risk and supplier management 
process. These include the expansion of our 
internal supplier due diligence process to  
integrate the requirements of the German  
Supply Chain Due Diligence Act. 
Risk analysis
Risk analysis is central to our strategy. It helps 
identify and evaluate human rights and environ-
mental risks in our company and in our supply 
chains. It also helps determine appropriate risk 
mitigation measures.
We conduct annual and ad hoc human rights 
and environmental risk analyses.
In our operations, we identify significant risks  
in an annual risk assessment through analysis  
of key data related to our locations and external 
data on human rights and environmental risks. 
Locations with increased risks are prioritized. 
12Policy Statement | Our approach to implementing human rights and environmental due diligence obligations
Consideration is given, in particular, to the 
potential severity, ability to remediate, and 
likelihood of violations. At these locations, 
in-depth assessments are undertaken using 
such methods as questionnaires and inter -
views. If necessary, measures to prevent,  
minimize, and avoid violations are imple-
mented. Particular attention is paid to the 
perspective of vulnerable groups.  
 
We also conduct annual risk assessments in 
our global supply chains. Every supplier is 
evaluated against supplier-specific metrics 
with the assistance of external data on human 
rights and environmental risk topics included 
in the German Supply Chain Due Diligence 
Act. Potential risks at our direct suppliers and 
risks in their supply chains are considered.  
 
A structured approach to identify high-risk 
suppliers is used. The potential severity, ability  
to remediate, and likelihood of violations are all 
considered. Siemens Energy also takes into 
consideration its own ability to influence 
suppliers along with any contributing factors. 
The prioritization of high-risk suppliers is 
assessed for plausibility by our procurement 
department and drives the implementation  
of preventive measures.  
 
In addition, risks are analyzed on a case-by-case 
basis if there is an alleged violation or if there is 
a notable change in the risk landscape of the 
supply chain. 
Our annual and ad hoc risk analysis process is 
continuously assessed and improved through, 
among other things, findings from assessments, 
audits, complaints received, and information 
from external stakeholders. 
Preventive measures 
The results of the risk analysis flow into our 
corporate decision-making processes and help us 
identify appropriate preventive measures. The 
results are then used to adapt existing processes and establish new ones. We implement risk-
based control measures and offer internal 
training for our businesses and provide  
external training to our suppliers. 
When implementing measures, a risk-based 
approach is utilized, with consideration given to 
the perspective of those potentially impacted.
We impose contractual obligations on suppliers 
pertaining to human rights and environmental 
due diligence. These contractual obligations are 
a central aspect of our prevention efforts in the 
supply chain. Through the Siemens Energy 
Supplier Code of Conduct, our suppliers agree  
to comply with our principles at the start of  
the business relationship. Moreover, they must 
require their own suppliers to observe these 
principles and verify compliance in a risk-based 
process. Before conducting business, new 
suppliers at Siemens Energy undergo a risk-
based integrity check that includes an assess-
ment of human rights and environmental  
standards.
 
 
 
Policy Statement | Our approach to implementing human rights and environmental due diligence obligations
 13
On-site, risk-based audits are also carried out  
at our suppliers.
When we learn of a potential violation, either 
through risk assessments or other sources of 
information, we work to establish communica-
tion channels with important stakeholders and 
those impacted.
We actively participate in multi-stakeholder 
initiatives such as the Responsible Minerals 
Initiative, European Partnership for Responsible 
Minerals and Econsense, a German sustainability 
network of international companies. Through 
such initiatives, we engage in a dialogue with 
relevant stakeholders, including peer group 
companies and civil society organizations.
Complaint (grievance) 
mechanism 
Effective allegation and complaint management 
is an integral aspect of our due diligence pro- 
cess. The goal is to identify and prevent possible 
human rights and environmental impacts associ-
ated with our business activities and, if neces-
sary, to take remedial action. 
To this end, Siemens Energy offers internal and 
external stakeholders convenient and protected 
reporting channels through which information, complaints, and allegations in connection with 
our business activities can be reported confiden-
tially and anonymously. These reporting  
channels are readily accessible in different 
languages through our global Siemens Energy 
website or by telephone.
Our rules of procedure ensure that all complaints 
and allegations are dealt with systematically. 
Any indication of a potential violation of human 
rights or environmental obligations, whether 
internal or in our supply chain, is processed 
objectively and independently in a binding, 
company-wide process. 
Siemens Energy does not tolerate any retaliation 
against whistleblowers. Any allegation of retalia-
tion is examined and evaluated by the compli-
ance organization. Where necessary, appropriate 
measures are taken.  
 
Insights gained from the complaint mechanism 
enable us to continuously improve our human 
rights and environmental due diligence pro- 
cesses. Further information and our rules of 
procedure for the complaint mechanism can  
be found on Siemens Energy’s global website.
 
 
Policy Statement | Our approach to implementing human rights and environmental due diligence obligations
14
Remediation
Despite our best efforts, we cannot always 
prevent violations of human rights or environ-
mental requirements from occurring.
Upon becoming aware that violations have 
occurred or are likely to occur, we take imme-
diate action to prevent or mitigate the extent  
of any such violation. If we detect a violation  
by a supplier that is likely to continue into the 
foreseeable future, we will establish a plan  
with clearly defined remedial measures and 
strict timelines together with the supplier.  
Where useful, we also work with stakeholders 
and industry trade organizations.  
 
Termination of the business relationship is  
the ultimate remedy. 
We endeavor to immediately evaluate any 
possible violations by sub-suppliers. When 
necessary, we will take reasonable steps to 
prevent, stop, or mitigate the extent of possible 
violations with sub-suppliers. Remedial measures 
are implemented on a case-by-case basis.  We care about those impacted and, where 
possible, consider their best interests as part  
of the solution.
Documentation and reporting
We methodically document the fulfillment of our 
due diligence obligations.
In addition, relevant developments pertaining to 
our human rights and environment-related activ -
ities are reported in our annual and sustaiability 
reports. Commencing in 2024, we will also 
report to the German Federal Office for 
Economic Affairs and Export Control (BAFA).  
Our annual reports to the BAFA will be posted  
on Siemens Energy’s global website.
 15
16
Our approach to effective 
control and continuous 
development
Implementing human rights and environmental 
due diligence is an integral aspect of our efforts  
to improve human rights along the entire global 
supply chain. 
This requires effective measures. A structured process is used to regularly review whether our  
risk management system and the measures implemented are effective. We continuously fine-tune 
our due diligence processes and this policy statement in collaboration with our stakeholders.
Siemens Energy is committed to respecting human rights and protecting the environment. This 
commitment is an expression of responsible corporate action and a guiding principle for our  
activities along the entire value chain. For more information, please refer to our Siemens Energy 
Business Conduct Guidelines, Supplier Code of Conduct, and (starting in 2024) our annual reports  
to the BAFA posted on Siemens Energy’s global website.
Policy Statement | Our approach to effective control and continuous development
 17
Definitions of terms / abbreviations
BAFA Bundesamt für Wirtschaft und Ausfuhrkontrolle /  
Federal Office for Economic Affairs and Export Control
ILO International Labor Organization
OECDOrganization for Economic Cooperation  
and Development
UN United Nations 
SDG Sustainable Development Goals
18
Published by
Siemens Energy AG  
Legal and Compliance  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 München, Germany
Edition: 2023
For more information, please visit our website:  
www.siemens-energy.com/compliance
Copyrights:  
All rights, also that of translation, reprint and copy, or parts thereof, are 
reserved. This document will not be recalled in the event of any alterations.
 © Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.