High-voltage substations Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications High-voltage substations Infrastructure facilities, industry, and private households around the world require more and more electrical energy. High-voltage substations, the node points of today’s complex power transmission infrastructure, play a key role in meeting this demand safely and reliably. Wherever you are, Siemens Energy is your reliable partner for planning and construction of customized, state-of-the-art high-voltage substations. Customer Support Center Solutions and services for the entire life cycle You expect comprehensive expertise in power transmission, technology leadership, long-standing experience from utility and industry projects around the world, and reliable financial strength? Then Siemens Energy is your partner of choice for high-voltage substations on budget and on time. Much more than you would expect Siemens Energy's scope of supply comprises much more than the high-voltage equipment that is required for the operation of a substation. It includes high- and medium-voltage switchgear, transformers, and equipment as well as all ancillary systems for control, protection, communication, and condition monitoring. Solutions and services for utility customers Solutions and services for industry customers Siemens Energy provides the entire range of services, technologies, and components that are required for the successful construction and operation of a high-voltage substation of any type. It is up to you to select from a comprehensive range of available services: Concept, planning, engineering Project execution including project management and manufacturing of all key components Commissioning Service and maintenance, refurbishments, upgrades, dismantling of old equipment Financing Refurbishment of substation in Brazil Siemens Energy helps industry customers focus on their core business by supplying fast, reliable, complete solutions that are based on a high degree of flexibility, continuous development, and outstanding consulting expertise for all steps of a high-voltage substation project: Concept, planning, engineering Support in grid code compliance as well as in handling and processing official planning documents and approval procedures Project execution including project management and manufacturing of all key components Commissioning Service and maintenance, refurbishments, upgrades, and dismantling of old equipment Financing Types of high-voltage substations The various types of switchgear that are available for high-voltage substations make it possible to provide flexible, individual solutions. Here’s an overview of the different kinds of high-voltage substations and their main advantages. Substations with air-insulated switchgear Reliable, proven, cost-efficient Substations with air-insulated switchgear Siemens Energy high-voltage substations with air-insulated switchgear (AIS) are the cost-efficient choice for rated voltages of up to 800 kV. They are renowned for highest reliability, economical operation, and low maintenance requirements. The Siemens Energy experts always consider the electrical parameters as well as the environmental conditions to which a substation is exposed. That’s why Siemens Energy AIS substations meet even the most demanding challenges and provide: an optimum solution when space restrictions and environmental circumstances are not an issue easy implementation of a wide range of standard applications reliable switching for up to 800 kV, rated currents of up to 8,000 A, and short-circuit currents of up to 80 kA Substations with gas-insulated switchgear Compact, powerful, adaptable Substations with gas-insulated switchgear Siemens Energy high-voltage substations with gas-insulated switchgear (GIS) are ideally suited to meet some of today’s most important requirements: bringing power on high-voltage levels right into the centers of urban areas. With almost 50 years of GIS manufacturing experience and the largest installed base of GIS, Siemens Energy is able to provide GIS solutions that even comprise operational training. More than 34,500  Siemens Energy GIS bays are currently in operation in GIS substations all over the world – even in most challenging environments. The comprehensive range of GIS for rated voltages from 72.5 kV to 550 kV provides ideal solutions for indoor and outdoor switching applications up to the highest performance rates that require: a small footprint outstanding reliability very low noise and electromagnetic emissions More information Gas-insulated switchgear Mixed technologies substations Modular, versatile, clever Mixed technologies substations Mixed technologies substations – or hybrid substations – are mainly used for the refurbishment and expansion of substations with air-insulated outdoor and indoor switchgear, particularly in cases when such modifications need to be accomplished with the substation in service. As space and time are main cost factors in the expansion of substations, solutions with Siemens Energy highly integrated switchgear (HIS) provide the possibility to quickly adapt a substation to today’s demands. The space-saving HIS circuit breakers, disconnectors, grounding switches, and instrument transformers are housed in pressure-resistant, gastight enclosures and require no additional space. Busbars and bushings originate in conventional AIS technology. Mixed technologies substations are: ideally suited for new substations when space is limited outstandingly compact thanks to the hybridization of GIS and AIS technology clearly structured, with good access to all equipment modular to suit virtually any network concept More information Gas-insulated switchgear Dead tank compact (DTC) circuit breakers Prefabricated power solutions Flexible, robust, plug and play Prefabricated power solutions increase grid development agility and resilience Siemens Energy's prefabricated power solutions are an ideal plug and play solution when it comes to achieving urgent grid connection, renovation, or expansion in challenging environments. Their mobile and modular design allows to take up the challenge of tight construction timeframes, natural disasters, and operational restrictions. They ensure maximum flexibility of design and utilization, excellent reliability, and a high return on investment thanks to: fast installation, small footprint, and easy relocation minimum interface management, full pre-commissioning prior to dispatch, and little on-site work robustness to transportation and handling constraints, as well as harsh environments Discover more about prefabricated power solutions Micro substation Siemens Energy provides customized Micro substations for remote areas, offering sustainable and environmentally friendly electricity solutions with virtually unlimited power availability. These substations are ideal for rural areas with high power demands. Learn more about Micro substation High-voltage substations in practice Reliable nodes in power systems around the world 75 Approx. years of experience 100+ Countries worldwide 8,000+ Projects in total Comprehensive expertise and many decades of practical experience are at the heart of all Siemens Energy AIS and GIS high-voltage substations. They serve even the highest voltage levels and are used in the most demanding environments. The largest GIS in North America increases electric system reliability and reinforces New Jersey’s transmission backbone Public Service Electric and Gas Company SE&G | Bergen substation, USA   This project broke records in terms of scale and performance. Gas-insulated single-pole bus ducts with a total length of 2,700 meters connect the GIS accommodated in the 85-meter-long switchgear building with the air-insulated part of the substation. The 245 kV breakers were the world’s first of its kind to switch a short-circuit current of 80 kA. The project included engineering, design, supply and delivery, commissioning, all associated control and protection equipment, and buildings for the substation. This projects upgraded the existing 138 kV lines to 230 kilovolts. The GIS helps provide additional load capacity and enhances safety and reliability by redundancy in the system design and earthquake resistance. Norway benefits from an additional feed-in of electricity provided by wind and small hydro power plants Statnett SF energy system operator | Sogndal substation, Norway  Sogndal substation is a key node point in Western Norway. It strengthens the Western Norway power grid, increases the electricity transmission capacity, and provides voltage support by installation of a Static Var Compensator (SVC). As a result, it ensures an additional feed-in of electricity and a redundancy capacity provided by wind and small hydro power plants. Siemens Energy was responsible for the planning, delivery, and installation of nine bays for a 420 kV AIS, in  double bus, two breaker design, three bays for a 145 kV AIS, in single bus, single breaker design. Furthermore the contract was comprising the connection of the existing 300 kV transmission lines with the new 420 kV substation and the design, delivery, and installation of a +/- 250 MVAr Static Var Compensator (SVC). Technical excellence at your fingertips Siemens Energy high-voltage substations incorporate the strong performance of one of the world’s leading engineering companies and supplier of power transmission products, solutions, and services. If you want to learn more about the advantages of Siemens Energy's time-tested, proven solutions and to delve into all technical details, simply contact the Siemens Energy Customer Support Center and have your individual questions answered directly by our experts. Find more services for HV substations Services for high-voltage switchgears and breakers Securing fault-free operation of high-voltage switchgears and products for a reliable power supply Read more Services for transformers Maintain the operation of your transformers at its maximum operating level Read more Contact our customer support center Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025