siemens-energy.com/sustainabilitySustainability at  
Siemens Energy
Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022 
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 2
Jason Bordoff: It has been many decades that we have 
largely been failing at tackling climate change. And 
now we are failing at energy security too. Europe is 
obviously having immense difficulty making it through 
this winter; next winter may be even harder, and this is 
having ripple effects in many other parts of the world. 
There is a precipitating event, which is Putin’s unjusti-
fied invasion of Ukraine. But we should remember: 
Europe was experiencing an energy crisis even before 
this, and there are a set of underlying factors that I 
think have made it even worse, because we are in a 
moment of transition. And so that leads to tighter 
markets and potential for price spikes and market 
crunches and volatility, which is not just bad economi-
cally and geopolitically, but risks undermining support 
for the energy transition itself.
So the question is: How do we react to this moment?
Christian Bruch: Jason, I agree with much of that, but 
for me it still remains to be seen how energy security 
issues will affect the transition. We are currently not on track with the transition – we might not even be on 
track with security nor on affordability – and we 
should not forget this third element. Because what is 
happening at the moment is that industrialized coun -
tries are exporting their inflation to poorer countries. 
Countries like Bangladesh as well as regions like Africa 
and other parts of Asia, for example, are heavily 
dependent on liquefied natural gas (LNG) imports and 
cannot afford it anymore.
Jason Bordoff: Right, this is having ripple effects in 
many other parts of the world, with rolling blackouts in 
Pakistan and Bangladesh. And coal is at record high 
levels as well. 
Christian Bruch: So, we are seeing that this trilemma 
of energy security, affordability and sustainability is 
closely interlinked, and so far we have not made any 
deliberate choice in any direction. At the moment, it 
has had neither a positive nor negative impact on the 
energy transition, but we have now arrived at a point in 
time when we have to make the hard choices.  
Talking is no longer enough.Will energy security derail the 
energy transition?
The transition to renewable energies will have a decidedly profound impact on the world’s energy  
landscape and magnify already rising concerns about energy security. Christian Bruch and Jason Bordoff 
discuss how sustainability, reliability and affordable energy interconnect.
As President, CEO and Chief Sustainability Officer of 
Siemens Energy, Christian Bruch defines his purpose 
as energizing society. “We want to ensure all people 
have equal opportunities to access to sustainable, 
reliable and affordable energy – no matter where 
they are.”
Jason Bordoff, one of the world’s leading energy 
and climate policy experts, is Founding Director of 
the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia 
University, New York, United States, and previously 
served as Senior Director for Energy and Climate 
Change on the staff of the United States Security 
Council.

Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 3
Jason Bordoff: I think we will never forgive ourselves if 
we look back on this moment of crisis and feel like we 
missed an opportunity to now take the urgency and 
imperative of energy security – meeting people’s 
energy needs securely and affordably – and combine it 
with the urgency of climate action and decarbonization 
to make faster progress toward an energy transition. 
Christian Bruch: Right, there are all the good reasons 
to build up renewables more quickly, to strengthen the 
grid and really bring energy security and sustainability 
closer together. But it also means we have to do certain 
things substantially differently going forward. At the 
moment, there are still measures that are driving up 
CO2 emissions. We are ramping up coal in Europe. We 
will still have a substantial coal fleet for a long time in 
Asia. The current drive to build up renewables barely 
covers the growth in the electricity market and is not 
bringing CO2 down.Jason Bordoff: I think first there needs to be a recogni-
tion that this is almost inevitably going to be a somewhat 
disorderly transition. And we can try to make it as 
well-managed as possible, but there is reason to doubt 
the idea that we will get anywhere close to a goal like net 
zero by 2050 – which is only 27, 28 years away! The scale 
of the transition, the scale of the global energy system, 
the pace of that transition is unprecedented relative to 
anything we have ever seen in the history of energy. And 
we are going to make mistakes along the way.
I lead an organization with the word policy in its name, 
the Center on Global Energy Policy. I would not do that if 
I did not think policy were necessary, but it is certainly 
not sufficient. We are going to need the technologies, 
and Siemens Energy is one of the most important compa-
nies in the world for that.
Christian Bruch: We will need a new era of public-  
private partnership: good policy and strong private 
capital flows, both built on solid plans. Energy infra -
structure needs to be comprehensively rebuilt or extended. But we should not neglect the demand side, 
which we can use to counter some of the volatility 
from generation. Additionally, we need to deal with 
the massive growth in electricity volume – possibly 
tripling in two decades. Industrial policies like those in 
the U.S. are needed to trigger the required grid invest -
ments, and we need to make optimal use of the assets 
we already have – for example, with gas and nuclear. 
Every technology must play its part, and efficiency will 
be vital. 
Jason Bordoff: I think we have touched on the most 
important things. But maybe I will just put a spotlight 
on them again: sustainability, security and affordability. 
If you fail on any one dimension of that, I think you 
actually undermine the pace of the others. The poten-
tial for unrest in Sri Lanka, the iconic yellow vest 
protests in Paris, or if people have trouble paying their 
energy bills, I fear that support for strong climate 
action, which is what we need, may wane as a result.
So, we are going to have to pull every lever we can to 
deal with the immediate urgency of the crisis – finding 
extra supplies, maybe in the near-term ramping up a 
diesel facility or a coal facility here or there, building some new LNG import terminals. But I think the opportu-
nity now is to remember that many of the things that 
would give you greater energy security (more energy effi-
ciency, conservation, more electrification of the 
economy, more use of clean energy) point you in the 
direction of decarbonization as well.
You see examples across Europe and other countries 
where in some cases, the energy crisis is accelerating a 
move toward a different kind of energy system in the 
future. It just takes time to get there.
Christian Bruch: And I can only say: We have to speed 
up. We still have it in our toolbox of possibilities to influ-
ence that. Time is running out, and we really have to 
move to take action. While we continue to add renewable 
energy, we can improve energy efficiency, strengthen 
electrical grids and make use of the existing infrastruc-
ture. We can also develop a clear plan as to which poli-
cymakers and industries can really make decisions. 
No question, we will need to push and develop new 
technologies. But a lot of technologies we need to drive 
substantial change are already available. It is our choice 
whether we want to turn it around.
“Industrialized countries  
are exporting their inflation 
to poorer countries.” 
Christian Bruch, President and CEO, Siemens Energy
“The question is: How do we  
react to this moment?”
Jason Bordoff, Founding Director, The Center on G lobal Energy Policy at  
Columbia University, New York, United States 
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 4At Siemens Energy, our mission is to support our customers in transition-
ing to a more sustainable world, based on our innovative technologies and 
our ability to turn ideas into reality. Our goal is to become the world’s lead-
ing energy technology company with a focus on sustainability. Our portfo-
lio, extensive energy experience and ambitious strategy to decarbonize 
global energy systems are all central to our efforts to be a valued partner 
and driver of the energy transition. 
With our broad portfolio of products, solutions, and services, we cover 
almost the entire energy value chain – from low- or zero-emission power 
generation, transmission, and storage to reducing greenhouse gas emis-
sions and optimizing energy consumption in industrial processes. Our 
products include conventional and renewable energy technologies, such 
as gas and wind turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, 
high-voltage grid access solutions, and high-voltage transformers. 
As of September 30, 2022, Siemens Energy employs about 92,000 people 
in more than 90 countries worldwide.
Our company structure
At our Capital Market Day in May 2022, we announced a new organiza-
tional structure to support the transformation of Siemens Energy with a 
clear focus on environmental, social and governance (ESG). The new orga-
nization came into effect with the start of the new fiscal year on October 1, 
2022. Within the new organizational structure, the former Gas and Power 
segment is organized into three Business Areas: Gas Services, Grid Tech-
nologies, and Transformation of Industry.
• Gas Services (GS) combines all business activities related to gas tur -
bines and large steam turbines as well as the associated service busi-
ness of the former Generation and Industrial Applications Divisions.Company overview
• Grid Technologies (GT) comprises the business of the former Transmis-
sion Division and, in future, the activities relating to energy storage, 
which were previously assigned to Generation.
• Transformation of Industry (TI)  is primarily focusing on the reduction 
of energy consumption and CO2 emissions in industrial processes and 
comprises the four independent business operations:
›  Sustainable Energy Systems (SES), with the former New Energy Busi-
ness and parts of Generation, deals with the topics of hydrogen, elec-
trolyzers, power-to-X, and photovoltaics, among others. ›  Electrification, Automation, and Digitalization (EAD) was previously 
part of Industrial Applications and offers integrated EAD solutions, 
additional services, and consulting services. 
›  Industrial Steam Turbines & Generators (STG) comprises parts of the 
Generation and Industrial Applications business portfolios, including 
industrial steam turbines up to 250 megawatts, as well as service, and 
industrial generators. 
›  Compression (CP) was previously part of Industrial Applications and 
offers turbo and reciprocating compressors, including service, as well 
as compressor trains and systems.
Siemens Energy announced a voluntary cash tender offer to acquire the 
remaining 33% of shares that are still in free float, with the intention of 
delisting SGRE from the Spanish stock exchanges. The integration will also 
strengthen Siemens Energy’s position, creating a holistic go-to-market 
approach and further enhancing customer focus. Our company structure
Gas and PowerBefore
1  Transformation of Industry reflecting total of four independently managed business operations 
(operating segments)Gas Services
Transformation of Industries¹Grid TechnologiesAfter
SGRE
ReconciliationTherein independently  
managed business operations
ReconciliationSGRESiemens Energy Siemens Energy
 Orders
(in billions of €)
~ 38  
~ 29Revenue
(in billions of €)
~ 97Order backlog
(in billions of €)Key financial indicators
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 5At Siemens Energy, we believe innovative technologies are the key to com-
bating climate change. As one of the world’s leading energy technology 
companies, we are uniquely positioned to drive the energy transition. Our 
extensive experience in the energy market makes us the partner of choice 
for our customers on their journey to a more sustainable future. To main-
tain our focus, we have established our company strategy along the three 
pillars of low- or zero-emission power generation, transport and storage of 
electricity as well as reducing greenhouse gas footprint and energy con-
sumption in industrial processes.
We shape our existing business through a strategic program by developing 
our portfolio with a focus on sustainability and service while becoming a Strategic focus
data-driven company that creates value through digitalization, connectiv -
ity, and automation.
Our Sustainability Program is integrated into our company strategy. The 
program is structured around topics that help us to contribute to the most 
relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and be a sustainability 
leader in the industry. The SDGs and their related targets are fostering a 
new understanding of how economic development can be reconciled with 
social and environmental challenges. To ensure our efforts have the big-
gest impact, we focus our activities on SDG 5, 7, 8, 9 and 13. At the core of our Sustainability Program is the goal to decarbonize energy 
systems along the entire value chain. With our commitment to responsible 
operations, we are also leveraging Siemens Energy’s societal impact. Our 
ESG rating results show that we are continuously improving our perfor -
mance. You can find more information on our ambition and program in 
the  Sustainability Report 2022 .
Our businesses, regional entities, and central functions are responsible for 
implementing the Sustainability Program. Major achievements and exam-
ples from the businesses are highlighted on the following pages.
 We focus on building our company based on three strategic pillars:Our strategic pillars
Reducing GHG footprint 
and energy consumption 
in industrial processesTransport and  
storage of electricityLow- or zero-emission 
power generationOur Sustainability Program
We  
energize  
societyDecarbonizing
our business
Responsible
operations•  Climate-neutral own  
operations
• Product stewardship• Employee engagement
•  Conservation of resources•  Decarbonized products,  
services and solutions  
for customers
• Societal engagement• Human rights• Compliance & integrity•  Decarbonized supply chain
• People development• Inclusion & diversity•  Occupational health & safety
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 6Sustainability performance highlights
Customers and innovation
Innovation is key to creating the future. We value co-creation and 
partner with our customers to decarbonize energy systems.
Innovation is the core of our business. Our simple, fast and  
unified approach to R&D has three elements:46 
Net Promoter Score (NPS)¹
€ 1.1  billion 
investment in R&DFocus 
We select, prioritize  
and commit to ideas 
from a strategic 
perspectiveAccelerate 
We accelerate ideas 
to maturity through 
dedicated channelsSustain 
We strive for  
tangible returns and 
measurable value 
creation
¹ Index measuring willingness of customers to recommend a company’s products or services to others.Decarbonization
Climate neutrality  
in our own operations  
by 2030
SGRE: net zero by 2040Net zero  
supply chainNet zero  
products, services  
and solutionsOur strategy to decarbonize global energy systems is based on our aspiration 
to reach net zero across the entire value chain, in line with the 1.5°C target.
Target reduction  
of relative Scope  
1 + 2 GHG emissions³ 
by 2025:  
46%
² kg CO2e/€ PVO spent, base year 2018; reporting segment GP. ³ from a 2019 base; reporting segment GP. ⁴ SBTi = Science Based Targets initiative.Target reduction  
of relative Scope 3  
GHG emissions in our  
supply chain by 2030²:  
30%Status 11%
Target reduction  
of SF6 emissions 
compared to 2019:  
60%Status 52%Status 50% Status 12%
Status 90%Commitment  
via SBTi⁴:  
28%  
reduction of GHG from 
the use of sold products  
by 2030³
Target:  
100%  
share of renewable 
electricity by 2023
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 7Selected examples for innovation and decarbonization
Floating wind farms
Floating wind farm technology is offering new opportunities to harness 
clean offshore wind energy further out to sea, where the winds are stron-
ger and more consistent but the sea is too deep to build fixed turbines. 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy is a pioneer in the floating wind farm 
market and is involved in several projects in the North Sea, including the 
Karmoy demonstration project off the coast of Norway and the Hywind 
Scotland commercial wind farm. Its latest project, Hywind Tampen, was 
installed in 2022, 140 kilometers off the coast of Norway, at a water depth 
of 260 to 300 meters. The 11 turbines are moored on floating cylindrical 
spar buoys and anchored to the seabed by chains.
Hywind Tampen, pioneering floating offshore wind technology
Ramping up electrolyzer production for hydrogen and 
e-methanol
Siemens Energy is helping to accelerate renewable hydrogen production 
worldwide by scaling up the production of large-scale electrolyzers. In 
June, we announced a joint venture with Air Liquide, a world leader in 
gases, technologies and service for industry and health, to build a 
multi-gigawatt factory for our electrolysis stacks in Berlin. Based on proton 
exchange membrane electrolysis technology, these stacks will be highly 
efficient and ideally suited to harvest volatile renewable energy. The fac-
tory will supply stacks to both companies for their respective range of cus-
tomers and serve the rapidly growing market.
In Denmark, Siemens Energy has secured an order from European Energy 
for the delivery of an electrolyzer plant. The Danish developer and opera-
tor of green energy projects is developing the world’s first large-scale com-
mercial e-methanol production facility using green hydrogen from a 
50-megawatt electrolyzer plant by Siemens Energy. The plant is to be built 
in Kassø, in the south of Denmark. Through its proximity to European 
Energy’s 300-megawatt solar park in Kassø, the project will have access to 
the low-cost renewable electricity needed to produce cost-effective e-fuel.  Growing market: highly efficient electrolyzer stacks
First zero carbon emission substation of the world’s 
biggest power grid company
The Siemens Energy High Voltage Switchgear team in Shanghai has suc-
cessfully put China's first 145kV Blue GIS into operation in Wuxi, China. The 
project was carried out in cooperation with the State Grid Corporation of 
China (SGCC), the world's largest power grid company, which serves more 
than 1.1 billion people and supplies 88% of China's electricity. Using SF6-
free vacuum arc extinguishing and clean air insulation technology, the 
zero-carbon substation is an important solution for SGCC in its mission to 
achieve carbon neutrality. Premiere for China: Blue GIS zero-carbon switchgear

Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 8Sustainability performance highlights
² Excluding construction and other waste. ¹ Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.Occupational health and safety 
Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, 
partners, contractors and suppliers is our utmost priority.
2.17 
Total Recordable Injury  
Rate (TRIR) of employees¹Product stewardship
Our approach to product stewardship includes all environmental aspects, 
with a strong focus on climate change adaptation and resource efficiency.
72% 
coverage of  
portfolio by life cycle 
assessments   
(LCA)Conservation of resources
We aim to minimize our impact on the environment. Our environmental 
management systems are founded on the principles and elements of the 
international ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 standards or energy audits.
3.45  million m3 
water consumption81% 
share of recycling²Zero Harm Framework
We promote a strong Zero Harm culture that aims to prevent injuries 
and adverse effects on people and the environment.
4 
Principles6 
Behaviors8 
Essentials
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 9Selected examples of responsible operations
Pollution protection – EPA awards Richland facility
Two projects at the Siemens Energy Richland (Mississippi, U.S.) facility to 
improve process efficiency and reduce electricity use received a Pollution 
Prevention Recognition Award by the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) Region 4. The EPA recognized the measures at the facility 
that saw automation and air flow improvements related to compressed air 
systems implemented and traditional roll-up doors replaced with high-
speed doors to reduce loss of air-conditioned air. The improvements 
resulted in over 260,000 kWh of annual electricity savings and 239,000 
pounds of CO2e avoidance.
Richland Facility: Award winning environmental improvementsZero landfill in Brazil
At Siemens Energy in Brazil, all sites have now achieved zero landfill waste 
generation, which means less than 1% of waste being directly or indirectly 
disposed in landfill¹. This was done through increasing waste segregation, 
recycling and developing new solutions for waste disposal besides landfill. 
The sites achieved 90.5% recycling in their operations and in fiscal year 
2022, only 4 metric tons of waste were sent to landfill (without debris/con-
struction waste), down from 295 metric tons in 2021 – a reduction of 99%.New from old: recycling waste in Brazil
¹  Excluding construction waste.RecyclableBlade
In 2021, SGRE launched RecyclableBlade, the first comprehensive recyclable 
rotor blade solution that is ready for commercial offshore projects. The 
RecyclableBlade is produced the same way as a standard blade. The only 
difference is the use of a new type of resin that allows the blade compo-
nents to be efficiently and gently separated from one another at the end 
of the blade’s working life. This allows the individual materials to be recy -
cled for new applications across various industries – a major step toward 
creating a waste-free wind industry.Waste-free: blade components are reusable at end of life
Middle East Legal Awards – Compliance Innovator  
of the Year
Siemens Energy took the award for Compliance Innovator of the Year at the 
2022 Middle East Legal Awards. Held in Dubai in May, the award honored 
Siemens Energy’s work in conducting anti-corruption training with officials 
from the Ministry of Electricity in Iraq in June 2021 (see Siemens Energy 
Sustainability Report 2021). The training was part of Siemens Energy’s 
Roadmap for the Electrification of the New Iraq, a series of projects 
launched to revamp the country’s ailing electricity sector and provide Iraqis 
with the reliable and efficient energy necessary for economic growth.
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 10Sustainability performance highlights
Societal engagement
Our global engagement addresses needs in 
the countries in which we operate.
€ 3.62  million 
total donations¹ At reporting segment GP.
Compliance & integrity
Our company-wide zero-tolerance approach aims to 
ensure a strong culture of business ethics and compliance.
Our Business Conduct 
Guidelines are binding 
for all executives and 
employees worldwide94%  
of employees 
trained on our 
Business Conduct 
GuidelinesWorking at Siemens Energy
Our People Agenda promotes a thriving environment, game-changing leaders 
and a vibrant workforce.
Share of females
Training hours
10.3 
Total average training hours per employeein top leadership 
positions¹  
22%Our target top leadership 
positions by 2025 
25%by 2030 
30%Sustainable supply chain management
We apply stringent environmental and social standards to contribute to a 
sustainable supply chain.
€ 21.5  billion 
procurement volume106%  
increase in  
supplier self- 
assessments6% 
increase in external 
sustainability  
audits
Human rights
We are committed to ensuring respect for human rights 
along the value chain within our sphere of influence.
We conduct human rights due 
diligence for our customer projects
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 11Selected examples of responsible operations
Allyship at Siemens Energy 
Many people in society still experience discrimination due to their ethnic ori-
gin, gender, religion, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity and/
or gender expression – and it is often in the workplace. At GP, we are deter -
mined for this change. To support employees at GP to feel safe to speak up 
honestly when mistreated, we have launched the Allyship campaign. It is a 
result of discussions from the diversity networks where some members came 
forward with stories of disrespect or racism. The campaign aims to change 
the internal culture and transform Siemens Energy into a truly inclusive 
and diverse company. It seeks to encourage kindness, respect, valuing dif-
ferences and mutual support.Speaking up against discrimination in the workplace
Training and education in Egypt
The Siemens Energy Egyptian-German Technical Academy is committed to 
providing vocational skills in Egypt. Since its launch in 2020, the academy 
has trained over 2,500 technical students, engineering students, industry 
technicians, and engineers.
The academy’s ongoing Training for Employment program aims to increase 
the youth employability rate and train technicians for the local market. In 
2022, 130 students have graduated after passing 12 weeks of training in 
mechanics, electrics and welding and have been hired by local companies. 
In the Technical Master Trainer program in cooperation with IHK Ostbran-
denburg, the academy has trained and certified 16 technical master train-
ers. The aim of the certificate course is to empower suitable candidates to 
generate and deliver market-relevant courses in line with Siemens Energy 
and IHK requirements within the Egyptian training ecosystem.
Powering the future: vocational skills for students, engineers and technicians
Just Energy Transition (JET) hackathon 
In South Africa, the inaugural Siemens Energy Just Energy Transition (JET) 
hackathon gave a group of secondary school students the opportunity to 
brainstorm ideas for the country’s transition to a net zero future. Given 
that 77% of South Africa’s energy needs are provided by coal, this was no 
easy task. The winning school team suggested a clever mix of technologies 
including solar, wind, biomass and biogas and considered the costs of their 
proposal.Brainstorming for South Africa’s net zero future

Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2022Page 12Performance indicator Unit 2022 2021
Greenhouse gas emissions
Scope 1+2 emissions
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 215 273
thereof SF6 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 35 41
thereof fleet 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 32 29
Scope 3 downstream emissions¹
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 1,323,012 1,369,163
intensity metric tons CO2 e/ 
€ order intake0.035 0.041
Scope 3 upstream emissions²
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 5,081 4,433³
intensity kg CO2 e/€ PVO spent 0.424 0.440³
Energy
Energy consumption million gigajoule 5.80 6.33
Share of green electricity % 90 76Performance indicator Unit 2022 2021
Research & development
Research & development expenses million € 1,078 1,155
Sustainable supply chain management
External sustainability audits at suppliers no. 167 157
Waste
Waste recycling and recovery rate % 81 82
Water
Water consumption million cubic meters 3.45 4.10
Product stewardship
Portfolio coverage by Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) % 72 71
Employees
Share of women in overall workforce % 20 19
Share of women in top leadership positions⁴ % 22 21
Training hours per employee no. 10.3 8.6
Occupational health and safety
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of employees⁵ no. 2.17 2.47
Societal engagement
Donations million € 3.62 4.71Decarbonizing our business Responsible operationsOur sustainability performance 
1 Includes category “use of sold products” only.
2 Includes categories “purchased goods and services“ and “transportation and distribution” only. Without SGRE.
3  Due to the further development and optimization of the CO2 calculation tool, the CO2 emissions for fiscal year 
2021 and fiscal year 2018 (baseline) were recalculated.
4 Without SGRE.
5  Total Recordable Injury Rate: Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.  
Recordable injuries are accidents that result in lost time, restricted work, or medical treatment.
 siemens-energy.com
 twitter.com/siemens_energy
 linkedin.com/siemens-energy
For the full sustainability report see:  
 www.siemens-energy.com/sustainability-report-2022
Published by
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com  
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com  
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
siemens-energy.com/sustainability  
© Siemens Energy, 2022
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.