Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 6 
 
Dubai , May 19, 2021  
Press release by Siemens Energy and DEWA and Expo 2020 Dubai  
Siemens Energy and partners inaugurate first 
industrial scale Green Hydrogen Project in 
the Middle East and North Africa  
• Project developed in collaboration with DEWA, Expo 2020 Dubai  
• Operational experience from the project will be invaluable  
• Operational data from green hydrogen electrolysis to be displayed at Expo 2020  
• Advances the sustainable energy indus try in the region  
 
Siemens Energy, in collaboration with Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) and Expo 2020 
Dubai, has inaugurated the first industrial scale, solar -driven green hydrogen facility in the Middle 
East and North Africa. Located at DEWA ’s Outdoor Testing Facility of the Research and Development 
(R&D) Centre at the Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Solar Park in Dubai, this trailblazing Green 
Hydrogen Project serves as a major milestone in the advancement of the sustainable energy 
industry i n the region.   
 
The plant was inaugurated by His Highness Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, Chairman of the 
Dubai Supreme Council of Energy, and Chairman of the Expo 2020 Dubai Higher Committee.  His 
Highness  Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan bin Khalifa Al Nahyan, Chairman of His Highness Sheikh Sultan 
Bin Khalifa Al Nahyan Humanitarian & Scientific Foundation;  Her Excellency Reem Al Hashimy, 
Minister of State for International Cooperation and Director General, Expo 2020 Dubai;  His 
Excellency Saeed Mohammed Al Tayer, MD & CEO of Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA); 
Dr. Christian Bruch, President and CEO of Siemens Energy, and officials from the public and private 
sectors were present.  
 Joint p ress release  

Joint press release  
   
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring 6  
81739  Munich  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 6 
 
 
 
The integrated facility was developed with electrolysis, storage, and re -electrification capabilities, to 
maximize the benefits of the pilot project. Daylight solar power from the solar park will enable the 
pilot project to produce around 20.5kg/hr of hydr ogen at 1.25MWe of peak power. Operational data 
from the green hydrogen electrolysis will be displayed at Expo 2020, one of the most sustainable 
World Expos in history and the largest event ever held in the Arab world.  
 
Utilizing this pilot project, DEWA a ims to demonstrate the production of green hydrogen from solar 
power, as well as the storage, and re -electrification of hydrogen. This is a system that allows for 
buffering renewable energy production, both for fast response applications, as well as for lo ng-term 
storage. The plant has been built to accommodate future applications and test platforms for the 
different uses of hydrogen, including potential mobility and industrial uses.  
 
Her Excellency Reem Al Hashimy said: “The Green Hydrogen project is lead ing by example, showing 
how technology and collaboration can help build a cleaner, safer and healthier future for everyone. 
It epitomises the shared desire of Expo 2020 Dubai, DEWA, our Official Sustainable Energy Partner, 
and Siemens Energy to develop a g lobal culture of innovation and deploy life -changing ideas and 
technologies around sustainability.”  
 
“Expo 2020 congratulates all those involved, and believes this innovative project will inspire many 
more creative solutions that tackle some of the greates t challenges facing our planet. In less than 
five months, we will celebrate these ground -breaking collaborations, showcasing the UAE’s 
commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals and creating a meaningful legacy that will have 
a positive impact beyond the site and the six months of Expo.”  
 
“This pioneering project which we have implemented with our strategic partner Siemens Energy is a 
role model for strategic partnerships between the public and private sectors. Through this pilot 
project DEWA aims to d emonstrate the production of green hydrogen from solar power, its storage 
and re -electrification. This is a system that allows for buffering renewable energy production, both 
for fast response applications, as well as for long -term storage. The plant has b een built to 
accommodate future applications and test platforms for the different uses of hydrogen, including 
Joint press release  
   
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring 6  
81739  Munich  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 6 
 
potential mobility and industrial uses. DEWA has already explored and developed a pilot project for 
green mobility using hydrogen that can be exec uted in the near future, in addition to a number of 
studies, business strategies and a potential roadmap for hydrogen usage. DEWA is building know -
how, experience and capabilities to contribute in shaping the clean hydrogen future of the UAE.” 
said His Exc ellency Saeed Mohammed Al Tayer, MD & CEO of DEWA.  
 
“This landmark Green Hydrogen Project highlights the importance of partnership in driving forward 
innovative new clean energy solutions and tackling the existential threat from global climate 
change. As t he first industrial scale facility to produce green hydrogen in the Middle East and North 
Africa, it is an important milestone of the energy transformation. We look forward to working 
together to decarbonize industries that are hard to abate with renewable  energy alone,” said 
Christian Bruch, CEO of Siemens Energy.  
 
”We are delighted about this excellent example of cooperation between German and UAE partners 
and hope that this is the first of many industrial scale green hydrogen projects in the region. The 
German government will continue to drive cooperation on hydrogen between the UAE and 
Germany in the context of our bilateral Energy Partnership and expect further bilateral projects to 
be launched soon”, said Parliamentary State Secretary Thomas Bareiss Md B from the Ministry of 
Economic Affairs and Energy.  
 
Power for the Green Hydrogen Project will be provided by the Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum 
Solar Park, which will generate 5,000 megawatts of clean energy by 2030 as the largest single -site 
solar park i n the world.  
 
Hydrogen can be used for re -electrification through gas motors, gas turbines and fuel cells. It can 
also be used as a feedstock for the chemical industry (e.g. ammonia, syn -fuels, green -chemicals, 
etc.), as fuel for transportation, a reducing  agent for the steel industry, as heat for industrial 
processes, gas for residential heating and cooking purposes, or energy for export.  
 
Hydrogen technologies will accelerate renewable energy integration and deployment in the region 
and pave the way for t he transition to a sustainable and green economy in the UAE. Hydrogen is a 
highly efficient energy carrier. Upon combustion, the only byproduct of this zero -emissions fuel is 
Joint press release  
   
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring 6  
81739  Munich  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  4 of 6 
 
water, making it an ideal medium for electrification and the substitution of foss il fuels in industrial 
processes and other applications by way of sector coupling. It can be transported using existing 
pipeline infrastructure and/or via trailers and tankers, either as hydrogen or derivatives like 
ammonia, methanol, etc.  
 
Moreover, hydr ogen is very suitable for large -scale, as well as long -term, and high -capacity storage 
and can provide fast and sustained energy levels, suitable to offset intermittent output from some 
renewable energy sources. It can be used to fuel gas turbines, which o ffer the flexibility and fast 
ramp -up needed to balance volatile power generation from some renewable sources.  
 
The operational experience gained from the Green Hydrogen Project will be invaluable in 
developing sustainable and carbon -free solutions for num erous industries, which will drive green 
economic growth for the benefit of future generations.  
 
Against the background of low costs of electricity for solar PV and wind power in the region, 
hydrogen has the potential to be a key fuel in the energy mix of the future and could open up 
energy export opportunities for those areas with access to abundant renewable energies.  
  
Joint press release  
   
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring 6  
81739  Munich  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  5 of 6 
 
Contacts for journalists  
Siemens Energy  
Iain Packham  
Phone:  +971 54 993 4561  
E-mail:  iain.packham@siemens -energy.com  
 
Expo 2020 Dubai  
Press Office  
Phone:  +971 56 688 9509  
E-mail:  press.office@expo2020.ae  
 
This press release and further mate rial is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
 
  
Joint press release  
   
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring 6  
81739  Munich  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  6 of 6 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmissi on to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been d ecarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Sieme ns Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020.  www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
 
About Expo 2020 Dubai   
 
From 1 October 2021 to 31 March 2022, Expo 2020 Dubai will welcome visitors from every corner of the globe to join the 
making of a new world, as it brings together the planet in one place to reimagine tomorrow.  
• With the purpose of ‘Connecting Minds, Creating the Future’, Expo 2020 will be the world’s most impactful global 
incubator for new ideas, catalysing an exchange of new perspectives and inspiring action to deliver real -life 
solutions to real -world challenges  
• Expo 2020 will provide a visua lly striking, intellectually enlightening and emotionally inspiring 182 days, as more 
than 200 participants – including nations, multilateral organisations, businesses, and educational institutions, as 
well as millions of visitors – create the largest and most diverse World Expo ever  
• Expo 2020’s sub -themes of Opportunity,  Mobility and Sustainability will inspire visitors to preserve and protect 
our planet, explore new frontiers and build a better future for everyone  
• Expo is committed to building a more equitable and just world for everyone, while keeping visitors safe by 
following the latest guidance of the world’s leading medical, science and health experts  
• Expo 2020 is the first World Expo to take place in the Middle East, Africa and South Asia (MEASA)  region, located 
on a 4.38 sqkm site adjacent to Al Maktoum International Airport in Dubai South  
• Built with a meaningful and measurable long -term legacy in mind, the Expo site will transform into District 2020 
– a model global community that will rethink the cities of the future – after Expo 2020 closes its doors  
 