 
  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 Page  1 of 3  Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
 
 Otto-Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
 
 Munich, November 9, 2020   
Siemens Energy supplies HVDC 
technology for the f irst electricity link 
between Germany and Belgium  
• Interconnector ALEGrO officially commissioned  
• Siemens Energy’s HVDC PLUS technology  enables transmission of 1,000 
MW electricity  
• Opening  with German and Belgian dignitaries  
 
Transmission system operator s Amprion  (Germany)  and Elia  Group (Belgium) 
today  officially  commissioned the Aachen Liège Electricity Grid Overlay 
(ALEGrO ) interconnector, the first power bridge between Germany and 
Belgium. Using high voltage direct current (HVDC) technology by Siemens 
Energy, ALEGrO is capable of carrying around 1,000 megawatts (MW) of 
power. The 90 kilometers long link provides urgently n eeded grid capacities for 
cross -border electricity flows including higher shares of renewable energy. On 
the same time, ALEGr O will strengthen the security of supply in the German 
Aachen -Cologne region.  
 
Beatrix Natter, Executive Vice President Transmissio n at Siemens Energy, said: 
“Thanks to the excellent collaboration between Elia, Amprion, Siemens Energy 
and all partners another landmark project on time and budget could come to 
fruition. I am proud that our proven HVDC PLUS technology contributes to a 
greener, more reliable and powerful European electricity network.”  
 
Dr. Hans -Jürgen Brick, CEO of Amprion GmbH, said: “ALEGrO is a central 
electricity bridge in the heart of Europe, which couples the internal electricity 
market even more intensively. At the same time, the project is a prime example 
of European cooperation and an important further building block for a secure 
European transmission network. "  
 Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Christina Huemmer  
Phone: +4915207158923   
E-mail:  
Christina.Huemmer@sieme
ns.com  
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
 Otto-Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
 
Page  2 of 3  Page  2 of 3  Marcus Berger, Chief Infrastructure Officer Elia , said: “We really appreciate the 
professional approach  that Siemens has demonstrated in the realization of this 
project. Not only during the construction but also during the commissioning 
phase. Last week, for example, our teams realised a world’s first by carrying out 
a so-called black start operation via AL EGrO. Should Belgium ever be hit by a 
blackout, the interconnector can be used to re -feed the Belgian grid from 
Germany. This also works in the opposite direction. By bringing this project to a 
successful conclusion, our teams have shown once again their t echnical 
leadership. ” 
 
Siemens Energy supplied the two converter stations at each end of the line that 
convert the alternating current to direct current and vice versa. The stations have 
been erected in Oberzier in Germany and Lixhe in Belgium and are conn ected 
by an underground DC cable. Equipped with HVDC PLUS technology based on 
modular multilevel converters (MMC), the system offers a controlled power 
supply in either direction and is ideal as a “firewall” against disturbances 
developing in highly loaded  AC grids.  
 
Armin Laschet, minister president of North Rhine -Westphalia, Tinne Van der 
Straeten, Belgian minister of Energy , and Sibylle Keupen, Lady Mayoress of the 
City of Aachen,  took part at the symbolic  commissioning  of ALEGrO and 
underlined the impo rtance of the project for the European electricity market. 
The European Commission designated ALEGrO a “project of common interest” 
as it contributes to an integrated European energy market.  
 
Siemens Energy is currently realizing 12 HVDC projects worldwid e and can 
look back on more than 55 completed projects. The technology is playing an 
increasingly important role in integrating renewable energy and thus in global 
decarbonization.  
 
  
This press release and press pictures are available at  
https://bit.ly/3paJ22O   
For further information on Siemens Energy , please see  
www.siemens -energy .com  
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
 Otto-Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
 
Page  3 of 3  Page  3 of 3  Further information on  Siemens Energy’s  HVDC technology at 
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en /offerings/power -transmission/high -
voltage -direct -current -transmission -solutions/hvdc -plus.html  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works 
with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to 
a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and service s, Siemens Energy 
covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. 
The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam 
turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrog en, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed 
company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market 
leader for renewable energies . An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is 
based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 91,000 people worldwide 
in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €29 billion in fiscal year 2019. 
www.siemens -energy.com . 