Toward a new 
energy system
A holistic view of how we can shape  
the energy transition together
White paper
siemens-energy.com
Toward   
a new 
energy 
system
Energy is the beginning of everything, the basis of 
civilizational development and the foundation of all 
economic progress. To make it future proof, we need 
a balance of affordability, reliability, and sustain -
ability. This includes a phase-out of coal, the 
expansion of renewables, the further development  
of H₂-capable gas power plants and grid stability 
services, as well as storage solutions that step in 
when the wind isn’t blowing and the sun isn’t shining. 
Together, these steps and technologies can ensure 
energy security and make a decarbonized energy 
system possible. 
Preface
Climate change is real and one of the 
greatest challenges in the history of human -
kind. The impact of global warming is no 
longer theoretical. We’re seeing the conse -
quences: droughts, fires, and floods at our 
doorstep and in every corner of the planet. 
We’re experiencing the warmest years since 
weather records began.
We are at a turning point. As the latest IPCC 
report states, “To limit global warming to 
1.5 degrees Celsius, greenhouse gas emis -
sions must be reduced by 45% from 2019 
levels by 2030.”1 This requires nothing less 
than a complete transformation of the 
global energy system. 
The world needs a more diversified energy 
mix and a massive expansion of renewable 
energies – along with corresponding infra -
structures and storage capacities. The 
phase-out of coal is an important first step. 
Switching to gas significantly reduces CO₂ 
emissions. If every coal power plant in 
operation today were converted to our 
modern combined-cycle power plants, 
1 “The evidence is clear: the time for action is now. We can halve emissions by 2030”; Press Release, IPCC, 
April 4, 22.emissions in the electricity sector could be 
cut in half. What is more: Green hydrogen 
can be used in our gas turbines as a sustain -
able fuel replacing natural gas. We’re able to 
co-fire up to 75% hydrogen and are planning 
for 100% by 2030. 
Our technologies are a backbone of afford -
able, reliable, and sustainable energy 
systems – but honestly, we can’t do it alone. 
Business, government, and society must 
work together to create a new and sustain -
able energy landscape. Global partnerships 
are needed to balance the energy trilemma – 
not only in the face of geo political crises, but 
also in managing the energy transition and 
achieving net-zero climate targets. Siemens 
Energy stands at the ready. This white paper 
gives an overview of concrete steps to drive 
the energy transition – step by step and with 
a clear direction.
Karim Amin
Member of the Executive 
Board of Siemens Energy
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 3
Today, the world is tackling climate change 
with a growing sense of urgency. At the COP 
26 summit in Glasgow in 2021, for the first 
time, a climate resolution was agreed on to 
phase out coal use. For good reason: Global 
emissions from coal came to 14.8 Gt in 
2020, just 350 Mt short of its peak in 2014.2
With considerable ambition, this  document 
aims to show the direction in which the 
world is heading. In 2020, coal con tributed 
around three-quarters of the  electri c ity 
sector’s CO₂ emissions, which, in turn, 
represented 36% of all energy- related CO₂ 
emissions.3 And now, based on announced 
pledges and stated policies, energy-related 
CO₂ emissions should fall by 40% by 2050.4 
And the shift away from coal is important, 
even though it’s clear even more needs to 
be done to reach net zero by mid- century. 
For one, we need to ensure energy supply.
Approximately 200 GW of installed coal 
power plants are expected to exit the 
market within the next few years (mainly 
in Europe, North America, China, and 
other parts of Asia) – and possibly even 
more if China ends its support for building 
new coal-fired power plants abroad.5 
It’s a necessary step toward an  eco nomy with 
net-zero CO₂ emissions. However, while neces -
sary, it’s not enough to do so by mid-century.
2 “CO₂ emissions”; Global Energy Review 2021, IEA.
3 World Energy Outlook 2021, IEA, p. 124.
4 “Executive Summary”; World Energy Outlook 2021, IEA.
5 See footnote 3.
6 “Surging electricity demand is putting power systems under strain around the world”; Press Release, IEA, 
January 14, 2022.With coal being scaled back on an un   pre - 
cedented scale, we have an excellent 
chance of reducing CO₂ emissions. But with 
the reduction in coal-fired power plants, we 
lose not only balancing and dispatchable 
power, but also grid stability. Yet these 
services can’t be replaced solely by the 
rising share of renewables, such as solar 
and wind. The future renewable-based 
electricity system needs technologies that 
provide reliable dispatchable power with a 
zero carbon footprint and grid stabilization. 
This becomes even more important in light 
of the growing global energy demand. In 
2021, it was up a stunning 6%, the highest 
increase since 2010.6 And it’s expected to 
grow significantly more, thanks largely to 
e-mobility and the rising use of electricity 
in other economic sectors (the “all-electric 
society”). Unsurprisingly, it’s ex pected 
that most of the additional demand will 
be met by renewables, which are high on 
governmental agendas world wide. But, as 
indicated above, re  newables alone can’t 
ensure a stable energy system. We need 
dispatchable energy, and we need grid 
stability services. That’s why we need to 
continue grappling with the question: 
How can we build a stable decarbonized 
energy system based on renewables?1 What can take coal’s place?
14.8 Gt
global emissions 
from coal 
in 202036%
energy-related 
CO 2 emissions 
based on coal200 GW
coal retirements 
expected within 
the next 
few years
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 4
2 2030: A changed energy landscape
As we phase out coal, the goal is clear: an 
economy with net-zero CO₂ emissions by 
2050. At the same time, energy demand 
keeps rising and needs to be met. Moreover, 
the additional capacity needed will have to 
be provided by alternative energy sources. 
Although the exact path toward that goal is 
unknown, based on analyses conducted by 
the IEA (International Energy Agency) and 
other organizations, there appears to be a 
clearer idea of what the energy mix will look 
like in 2030.
In most market scenarios, by 2030, the 
rising energy demand will largely be met by 
the accelerated expansion of renewables, 
namely, solar and wind. Whereas in 2020, 
worldwide renewables were responsible for 
30% of electricity generation, their share is 
projected to increase by about 45% in 2030 
7 World Energy Outlook 2021, IEA, p. 125 .based on announced national pledges.7 But 
if we’re to reach net zero by 2050, renew -
able energy generation needs to increase by 
another 15%, according to the IEA World 
Energy Outlook 2021. 
At the same time, there’ll be an immediate 
need to supply balancing and dispatchable 
power along with grid stability. Understand -
ably, these are essential features that fluctu -
ating renewables can’t continuously deliver. 
But if these features can indeed be provided, 
the share of renewables can grow even 
further. The power may mainly come from 
thermal power plants increasingly running 
on clean fuels, such as hydrogen – not only 
at the utility scale, but also when it comes 
to industrial applications. And given the 
current geopolitical climate, we can expect 
an accelerated transition. 
2737in coal emissions
2020Gt CO2 in electricity 
and heat sectorsStrong decline
TWhin pow er generat ionSteady  increase
203014
6
2020 2030 2020 203015H
82+gas enables
renew able grow th
1000 GW (installed capacity)
Coal + oilGas + H2Renewable¹1000 TWh (generation)
+3% p.a. -8% p.a. +7% p.a. 
Meeting the challenges of our 
time: By 2030, coal emissions 
will go down, while gas and 
hydrogen power generation will 
enable the growth of 
renewables, meeting the 
growing power demand.
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 5Source: IEA Net Zero by 2050 – A Roadmap for the Global Energy Sector. 
¹  Includes renewables and others (fossil fuels w / CCS, nuclear & battery storage)
3 Market and regulatory 
 mechanisms
  8 World Energy Outlook 2021, IEA, p. 103.
  9 World Energy Outlook 2021, IEA, p. 135.
10 “HYFLEXPOWER: The world’s first integrated power-to-X-to-power hydrogen gas turbine demonstrator”; 
Press Release, Siemens Energy, May 29, 2020 ; “Our Project”; HYFLEXPOWER website.However, this scenario won’t come about on 
its own. There need to be political as well  
as financial frameworks promoting invest -
ments that help realize a decarbonized 
energy system. Four levers are key for these 
frameworks: 1. carbon pricing, 2.  en viron-  
mental regulations, 3. funding and financing 
programs, and 4. power market design.
1. Carbon pricing  mechanisms that are 
effective and reliable can help ensure that 
switching from fossil to carbon-neutral 
energy becomes a business case for all 
energy- consuming sectors, similar to how 
wind energy has been promoted in the past 
few decades. For instance, governments 
around the world collected more than $45 
billion generated by carbon pricing systems 
in 2019. These funds need to be re-invested 
in low-carbon infrastructures or used to 
support technological advances. According 
to the IEA Energy Outlook 2021, to reach 
net-zero emissions by 2050, carbon prices 
should by then have risen to $250 / ton CO₂ 
in advanced economies and $200 / ton CO₂ 
in other major eco nomies.8 
2. Environmental regulations not only put a 
time limit on operating fossil-powered plants, 
they also support future-proof gas power 
plants, investments in hydrogen infrastruc -
ture, and access to hydrogen for power 
generation. Regulations also need to reduce 
bureaucracy in order to expedite approval of 
energy transition projects.
3. Funding and financing programs  need to 
be aligned with the goal of phasing out coal 
as well as helping to replace capacity in ways 
that complement renewables. For instance, 
under the 2020 Framework Pro gram for 
Research and Innovation,9 the EU is co-  
funding several pilot projects supporting 
decarboni  zation, among them Hyflexpower, 
an industrial scale hybrid power plant in 
France.4. Power market design: In energy systems 
with high shares of renewable electricity, 
more and more, the role of thermal power 
plants is to provide reliable capacity. They may 
only run during limited operating hours, but 
they ensure security of supply and keep the 
systems stable. Their value needs to be remu -
nerated by the energy markets. Today, coun -
tries with ‘energy-only markets’ value energy 
(kWh) but not capacity (kW). Hence, they 
don’t provide sufficient investment signals 
related to offering capacity. For this reason, it 
will be necessary to establish separate power 
and capacity markets to ensure sufficient 
investment in security of supply.
Reference:
Saillat-sur-Vienne, France10
Hyflexpower
• First fully integrated power-to-hydrogen-  
to-power industrial-scale demonstrator
• Upgrade of SGT-400 for up to 100% H₂ 
operation in 2023
• First operation with natural gas and H₂ in 
2022 
• Led by a consortium comprised of Engie 
Solutions, Siemens Energy, Centrax Gas 
Turbines, and other companies and 
universities
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 6
4 Coal-to-gas shift: Moving to zero 
CO₂ emissions
There are two key features required in a re  - 
newable electricity system. The first: Dis -
patchable power alongside balancing 
power. The second: Grid stability. Gas power 
plants provide both of these benefits to the 
extent necessary for a stable energy system. 
This is possible because the technology is 
mature and their economics are sound. Also, 
their CO₂ emissions can be further reduced 
with the help of efficiency upgrades and carbon capture. Combined heat and power 
(CHP) plants can even reach a fuel effective -
ness of up to 90%. The ultimate switch to 
hydrogen should result in carbon-free 
energy generation by 2050 at the latest. As 
previously stated, considering this projec -
tion, it’s not surprising that the added 
amount of gas power is projected to stay 
stable at 40–60 GW per year, at least until 
2030.
Replacing coal capacity with highly efficient H₂-ready CCPPs
Coal power can be replaced by gas power 
(natural gas, LNG, LPG, and so on) in two 
ways – by building new power plants or by 
repurposing existing ones. Compared to a 
coal plant of the same capacity, a new 
state-of the-art combined cycle power plant 
(CCPP) can reduce CO₂ emissions by approxi -
mately two-thirds. Indeed, this is what a 
new CCPP in Komotini, in the northeast of 
Greece, is expected to achieve by saving up 
to 3.7 million tons per year when compared 
to a coal-fired power plant (see next page). 
Furthermore, the infrastructure around shut 
down coal plants can be wisely used to 
switch to a highly efficient H₂-ready CCPP. 
This conversion is known as a full 
repowering, and not only does it facilitate 
the repurposing of existing assets, but it 
also has the potential to lower investment 
costs when compared to a greenfield 
project. Moreover, repurposing existing 
assets involves shorter implementation 
times, less paperwork, and fewer permits. 
Apart from reducing CO₂ emissions, this also 
leads to an increased efficiency from an 
average of 38% up to 63%. 
11 “A million tons of CO ₂ lighter”; May 2021, Siemens Energy.References:
Marl, Germany11
CHP plants at chemical park
• Three 90 MW CHP plants 
• Produce electricity and process steam for 
Marl chemical park
• District heat for 2,000 homes
• Replaces the last coal-fired plant at the 
Marl chemical park
• Annual savings: 1 million tons of CO₂, 
equal to taking 500,000 cars off the road 
or planting 46 million large trees
• Full EPC with 3 × SGT-800 gas turbines 
including steam extraction and supple -
mentary firing
• Fuel efficiency will exceed 90%
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 7
Komotini, Greece12
CCPP
• World’s most powerful combined cycle 
power plant in 1 × 1 configuration with 
877 MW electrical capacity 
• Enables phaseout of lignite power plants
• Reduces CO₂ emissions by up to 
3.7  million tons per year compared to 
a coal power plant
• SGT5-9000HL gas turbine, SST5-5000 
steam turbine
Future-proofing gas power plants means 
equipping them with turbines that are 
capable of co-firing clean fuels, mainly 
hydrogen or other e-fuels. Many major gas 
turbine OEMs, including Siemens Energy, 
today have turbines capable of operating with 
an admixture of 30–70% hydrogen, and are 
12 “Siemens Energy’s HL-class technology enables Greece to reduce CO₂ emissions and protect the environ -
ment”; Press Release, Siemens Energy, September 30, 2020 .
13 “Siemens Energy is the first manufacturer to receive certification for “H ₂-Ready” power plant concept”; 
Press Release, Siemens Energy, November 16, 2021 .working toward 100% hydrogen by 2030. 
Unsurprisingly, most want their gas power 
plants to be hydrogen-ready. To address this 
demand, as of 2021, TÜV Süd in Ger many has 
been offering “H₂- Ready” power plant concept 
certifi cation,13 and Siemens Energy is the first 
company to have received it.
Future-proofing gas power plants with hydrogen  
and carbon capture
Hydrogen capabilities of Siemens Energy gas turbines
The mission is to operate with 100% hydrogen while maintaining  
full fuel flexibility between H 2 and natural gas
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 8
Regulators and policy makers have certainly 
taken note. For example, in the EU, there’s 
been a push to operate more electrolyzers 
faster, including more storage options and 
grid connections. Under the REPowerEU 
program, the EU proposed a ‘Hydrogen 
Accelerator’ program that would result in 
20.6 million tons of green hydrogen being 
produced annually by 2030.14 If the electro -
lyzers producing hydrogen are powered by 
renewables, they can prevent greenhouse 
emissions altogether.
40 GW in the EU by 2030 may not appear 
much compared to total available capacity. 
Yet, this number can be compared to the 
early days of wind and solar. In order for 
green hydrogen, as well as other clean fuels, 
to be available at scale, production needs to 
14 “Questions & Answers on REPowerEU”; May 8, 2022. be increased, while production costs must 
conversely decrease due to economy of 
scale and corresponding innovation. Also, 
infrastructure for distributing and storing 
hydrogen is still widely missing. In short: 
Major investments need to be made. To 
encourage these, approval processes need 
to be shortened and CO₂ prices progressively 
increased. Also, financial incentives should 
be considered to make investments in 
hydrogen production and distribution a 
realistic option.
Next to hydrogen, another option for 
reducing the emissions of gas power plants 
is carbon capture technology. While promis -
i  ng, its technological as well as economic 
validity is still being evaluated.
000020220250260320
0 500 1000Renewables with grid stabilizer / storageGT combustion with  100% H2Zero-carbon hybrid plantHeat pump with green powerCombined cycle with 95% CCSCombined heat and powerCombined cycle with 50% H2 co-firingCombined cycle with 25% CCSCombined cycle 63% eff.Coal average 1000
~ 3/4 less CO2> 2/3 less CO2
Net zero CO2
Carbon emission intensity (g/KWh)
Big impact: By shifting from a 
coal to a combined cycle power 
plant, more than 2  / 3 of CO₂ 
emissions are cut. And by 
integrating H₂ co-firing, CCS, or 
renewables along with storage, 
it’s possible to reach net zero.
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 9
References:
Leipzig, Germany15
H₂-ready CHP
• The CHP plant supports Leipzig’s decar -
bonization strategy by generating power 
and district heating independent from 
lignite
• Aimes to completely decarbonize gas 
turbine operation through hydrogen
• Two H₂-ready SGT-800 gas turbines 
installed
• Mid-term co-firing 30% to 50% hydrogen, 
long-term 100%  
 
 
 
Teesside, United Kingdom16
CCPP with carbon capture 
• Front-end engineering design (FEED) 
studies for carbon capture at a gas power 
plant in Teesside, UK, planned to be 
completed by the end of 2022
• Gas power plant with fully inte grated 
carbon capture technology 
• Carbon will be stored securely offshore in 
the North Sea
• Part of UK government’s Carbon Capture, 
Usage and Storage (CCUS) program
15 “Gas turbines from Siemens Energy are providing Leipzig with a climate neutral power supply”; Press 
Release, Siemens Energy, November 19, 2020.
16 “Net Zero Teesside takes major step forward as first engineering contracts are awarded”; Press Release, 
December 15, 2021.  
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 10
Though it’s crucial to replace coal-fired 
power plants with sustainable energy gener -
ation, we can’t leave out the essential factor 
of decarbonizing heat generated by fossil 
fuels, namely coal, oil, and natural gas. Half 
of the world’s energy use in 2021 was heat. 
And 51% of that global heat use came from 
industrial processes17, especially in the glass, 
steel, chemical, and pulp and paper indus -
tries.18 In total, heat-related industrial CO₂ 
emissions stood at 7.8 Gt in 2020.19 Thus, 
without decarbonizing heat, net zero will 
never be achieved. 
Here, we want to draw attention to two key 
elements for decarbonizing heat: heat pumps 
and combined heat and power plants.
Heat pumps operate based on a simple 
principle: with a certain amount of addi -
tional energy (in most cases, electricity), 
they lift heat from a low-temperature heat 
source to a usable level at the heat sink or 
consumer. In this way, they generate much 
more heat than a direct conversion of elec -
tric power to heat could ever achieve. This 
also shows how heat pumps can facilitate 
17 “Heating”; IEA, 2020.
18 “Strengthening Industrial Heat Pump Innovation”; White Paper, 2020.
19 “Renewable Heat”; IEA, 2021.
20 “Vattenfall and Siemens Energy help advance a climate-friendly heating supply for Berlin with large-scale 
heat pump”; Press Release, Siemens Energy, March 25, 2021.decarbonization, if renewable electricity is 
used for their operation. 
Industrial sources consist mainly of indus -
trial waste heat, for example, from steel 
plants. Other heat sources are also possible, 
for instance, geothermal heat, ambient air, 
or even rivers, seas, and oceans. Unsurpris -
ingly, while they’re presently not yet eco -
nomically viable without funding, in the 
coming years, heat pumps are expected to 
be deployed on an industrial scale, bringing 
with them the electrification of the heat 
sector. 20
One special application case are novel 
high-temperature heat pumps providing a 
temperature of 150°C. These heat pumps 
can help industries capture waste heat and 
reuse it to provide hot water or steam for 
process heating, which wasn’t possible in 
the past. Moreover, these pumps can be 
used for district heating or targeted expan -
sion of low-temperature heat sources to the 
level of district heating in areas with high 
heating demand.5 Decarbonizing heat
Reference:
Berlin, Germany20
Large-scale heat pump for district heating
• Generates district heating using waste 
heat from a cooling plant and electricity 
from renewables
• High-temperature heat pump (8 MWth) 
enables temperature levels from 85 to 
120°C
• 6,500 t of CO₂ emissions savings 
• 120,000 m³ of cooling water savings
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 11
The basis for any heat pump is, of course, an 
adequate heat source. But not every city or 
municipality has access to industrial waste 
heat, the option of tapping geothermal heat, 
or even a river or sea nearby. However, most 
cities at least have sewage plants carrying 
heat. Other possible heat sources are waste 
incineration plants, data centers, and elec -
trolyzers. In sum, there’s a wide range of 
potential applications for heat pumps. 
Numerous governments have recognized 
this and established economic development 
incentives. Combined heat and power is another option 
for decarbonizing heat. By replacing a coal 
district heating plant with a gas-fired CHP 
plant, huge GHG savings are achievable 
today. By switching to low-carbon or 
zero-emissions fuel, such as hydrogen or 
biomass, maximum fuel efficiency can be 
achieved, and any heat produced for district 
heating or process steam can also be carbon-   
free. Thus, CHP plants fired with hydrogen 
or other climate-neutral fuels are another 
relevant part of decarbonizing energy in 
Europe and other parts of world. 
Reference:
Shanghai Orient Champion Paper, China21
• Fuel shift from coal to gas
• On-site power generation, first to be used 
in Chinese pulp and paper industry
• Two single-shaft SGT-300 gas turbines 
installed
• Reduction of carbon footprint by 60%
• Process steam for drying process
21 “On-site power generation for Shanghai Orient Champion Paper”; Siemens Energy.
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 12
provides inertia by spinning continuously 
without generating any power. It contrib-
utes to the stability of the system by spin-
ning in sync with the grid frequency and 
dampening fluctuations, just as car shock 
absorbers dampen the impact of a bump in 
the road.
In addition, RGSs support voltage stability  
by providing reactive power and enhance 
grid strength at connection points by pro-
viding short-circuit power. And they are 
designed to respond instantly, without 
delay. As a result, RGSs make it possible to avoid stranded assets and contribute to a decarbonized energy system.6 Maint aining grid stability
With the transitio n to renewables as a main 
source of energy ge ner ation, grid stab ility is 
at risk, as renew a ble power adds no inertia 
to the grid. As a  result, the risk o f power 
outages increases.  
Thus, it’s no sur prise that rotati ng masses as 
a stand alone sol ution are already bei ng 
added in grids with  a high share of renew -
ables. Especially  at former power pl ants, 
rotating grid sta bilizers (RGSs) are being 
installed by conve rting existing ge nerators. 
The result is a large piece of spinn ing 
machinery made out  of the genera tor, 
which can also o perate as a synchronous 
condenser and is usually combined with  a 
flywheel. When conn ected to the grid, it 
Reference:
Moneypoint, Irel and22
Rotating grid stabilizers
•Converts a 915 MW coal power station
into a green energy hub
•Rotating grid stabilizers (RGSs) enableincreased integration of wind power
•A synchronous condenser is installed as
a key component and incorporates theworld’s largest flywheel
•Ireland plans to reach 70% renewables
by 2030
•Supports coal phase-out by 2025
22 “Siemens Energy’s grid stabilizer technology to help Irish grid exceed renewables penetration limit“; Press 
Release, Siemens Energy, May 4, 2021.
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 13
Reference: 
Mobile STATCOM, USA23
Relocatable grid stabilization solution 
• Mobile solution including all components 
mounted on trailer
• Bridges the gap after phasing out coal-
fired power plants until new measures 
take effect
• Supports CO₂ reduction and renewable 
integration
• Dynamic voltage control by Siemens 
Energy SVC PLUS technology
23 “World’s first mobile STATCOM: When grid stabilization gets wheels”; Siemens Energy Magazine, May 23, 
2018.
But RGSs aren’t the only option for help ing 
maintain grid stability. Over long distances, 
it’s particularly difficult to maintain high 
voltage control with intermittent renew -
ables, such as wind and solar, which supply 
the bulk of renewable electricity. As their 
supply can fluctuate, it’s necessary to 
sustain voltage control. A reactive electronic 
solution is static VAR compensators (SVCs). 
Instead of a spinning mass, they use power 
electronics. They help operators avoid 
blackouts caused by excessive loads and 
surges, insufficient voltage, or natural 
catastrophes that might take out parts of 
the grid.
Finally, it takes smart control systems to 
manage a complex grid facing an increasing share of renewables and the corresponding 
fluctuating power flow, decentralization of 
production, and ever-increasing energy 
demands. These controls require higher 
capabilities beyond monitoring, controlling, 
and automation systems. They need to be 
intelligent and able to react quickly to 
changing conditions, such as weather, 
varying energy demand and supply, and so 
on. Moreover, smart systems like these don’t 
just help maintain reliable power distribu -
tion, they also help operate power plants in 
cost-efficient ways and with the smallest 
possible carbon footprint. This can be 
 realized, for instance, by ramping up energy 
generation when demand is high and 
slowing it down when it’s low.Voltage control over long distances
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 14
It’s clear that gas power plants and grid 
stability technologies are necessary enablers 
of renewables today. But in the long run, they’ll 
also become essential to hybrid power plants. 
Such plants usually combine at least two 
elements of renewables, thermal power gener -
ation, or energy storage. They can also in - 
clude additional elements, such as grid sta - 
bility technology, electrolyzers, or heat pumps. 
They’re expected to play a large role in dis-
tributed energy generation, for example, for 
municipalities or industries that may require 
tailored flexible power plants to suit their 
needs.
Let’s take a closer look at a hybrid power 
plant’s three core components, which all 
have shortcomings. Renewables are fluctu -
ating; energy storage eventually runs out; 
and thermal power is only sustainable if 
operated with an eco-friendly fuel. If all 
three components were integrated, the 
weaknesses of each element could be 
addressed. The volatility of renewables 
could be significantly minimized, and 
thermal power generation could be contin -
uous. Energy storage can’t deliver contin -
uous energy supply on its own, but when 
combined with thermal power and renew -
ables, this deficiency can be avoided. An 
ideal integrated approach, however, requires 
a fourth element: a smart control system 
and dispatch optimizer that manages such a 
dynamic system. By combining all the 
aforementioned parts, they can be adjusted 
to a site’s specific needs, thus enabling their 
optimized use.
Any hybrid power plant being constructed 
will have to address site-specific require -
ments as well as technological and eco -
nomic boundary conditions. Simply put, 
windy regions are well-suited for integrating 
wind power, whereas sunny regions are 
optimal for integrating photovoltaics. That’s 
why any hybrid power plant will represent a 
site-specific, tailored mix and match of 
technologies.
24 “Siemens Energy will build climate-neutral power plant using hydrogen to supply 10,000 households in 
French Guiana”; Siemens Energy Press Release, November 3, 2021.Finally, the most important benefit of hybrid 
power plants likely goes beyond the energy 
generation sector. The key term here is 
sector coupling, whereby excess energy can 
be transferred to all consuming economic 
sectors, such as buildings, mobility, industry, 
and agriculture. Consequently, the potential 
risk of curtailing energy generation can be 
addressed, as utilities can use long-term 
storage for seasonal balancing to help deal 
with a mismatch of supply and demand.
Reference:
French Guiana, France24
Hybrid power plant
• Large-scale hydrogen state-of-the-art 
hybrid power plant
• Combines PV, batteries, an electrolyzer, 
and a fuel cell
• Supplies electricity to 10,000 households 
with zero carbon emissions 
• Scheduled to be commissioned in the fall 
of 20237 Preparing for net zero: Hybrid 
power plants and sector coupling
Solar panelsBattery
Hybrid control center
H₂ storageElectrolyzerH₂ fuel cell
Grid connection
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 15
Another important aspect of changing the 
complete energy system is its social 
impact. Globally, millions of jobs will be 
lost at coal power stations, associated 
mines, and oil and gas companies. And this 
doesn’t just affect people’s material liveli -
hoods. Work is also a matter of personal 
identity for many people, even for entire 
regions. Therefore, while advocating for 
decarbonization, it’s important to see how, 
for example, clean energy technolo  gies 
may help provide local employment in 
future-proof jobs.
If we do it right, new jobs will be created in 
clean energy, which is projected to gen -
erate more jobs than those being lost in 
the coal industry.25 These jobs will be 
available in green energy generation, 
ener  gy-efficiency measures for buildings, 
and manufacturing. The World Energy 
Outlook estimates that compared to today, 
another 13 million workers should be 
employed in the clean energy sector, given 
the current energy policies and 
25 World Energy Outlook 2021, IEA. p. 54 .
26 See footnote above.
27 “How the European Union could achieve net-zero emissions at net-zero cost”; Report, McKinsey Sustain -
ability, December 2020.
28 “North Sea Transition Deal”; Policy Paper, March 24, 2021.
29 In 2021, Siemens Energy spent € 58 million in continuing education. See “Our ESG targets and perfor -
mance”; Company Presentation, Siemens Energy, August 2022.government pledges worldwide.26 Likewise, 
a recent McKinsey report found that in 
Europe, “the net-zero transition would 
create an estimated 11 million jobs, while 
eliminating 6 million, resulting in a net 
gain of 5 million jobs.”27 
These changes will be accompanied by 
various government programs, for 
example, the trans  ferring of qualified 
personnel from the fossil fuel industries to 
other new energy sectors, such as renew -
ables, carbon capture tech  nologies, and 
hydrogen production, among others. For 
example, the United Kingdom has a North 
Sea Transition Deal in place that aims to 
“support and anchor the expert supply 
chain that has built up around oil and gas 
in the UK, to both safe   guard and create 
new high-quality jobs.”28 Other countries 
around the globe are engaging in similar 
initiatives. Likewise, companies such as 
Siemens Energy are also heavily investing 
in continued education of personnel.298 The social impact
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 16
Finally, while we have all these technolog -
ical possibilities at our disposal, it’s clear 
that as we push for decarbonization and 
coal phase-out, every country – even every 
industry – will experience different pres -
sures in the process.30
Countries with abundant renewables, such 
as Brazil, New Zealand, and Canada, are 
close to zero coal, yet they can still benefit 
from decarbonization measures, measures 
that can increase the share of green fuels, 
and the co-firing of hydrogen in gas plants in 
order to reach net zero. And since their share 
30 Numbers in this section are based on Siemens Energy market analysis.of renewables is comparatively high, these 
countries also have demands for grid stabili -
zation measures, with the noted exception 
of hydropower dominated countries.
Other countries with a more heterogeneous 
energy mix, such as the US, Germany, and 
Japan, can reduce CO₂ emissions by approxi -
mately 65% by building H₂-ready gas power 
plants. They can use natural gas as a 
bridging fuel while continuously increasing 
the share of hydrogen, using carbon capture 
technologies, pushing renewables, and 
employing grid stabilization measures. 9 Whereto begin?  
Meeting countries at their 
starting point
25%
35%40%
25%
70%5%“Green front-runners”“Heterogenous energy mix”•“Coal-dominated energy mix”Coal
Natural gas (NG)
Renewables
Notes:  Nuclear impact not covered in demonstration
Pie charts show typical energy mix70%20%
10%Efﬁciency
increaseHybridizationDeep
decarbonization
Net-zero CO2“Stable green energy system“~ 50% 
CO2 savings
~ 65% 
CO2 savings
~ 100% 
CO2 savingsEnergy mix
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 17 Renewable expansion
 Coal-2-gas shifts
 Shut-down of low-efficiency coal plants
 Renewable expansion
 Switch to low-carbon fuels (e.g., H₂)
 Decarbonization of heat (e.g., CHP,  
heat pumps)
 Grid stabilization measures
 High share of PV & wind
 Green energy storage
 Carbon capture
 Sector coupling with H₂
However, the biggest potential in terms of 
reducing emissions can be found in countries 
with a large share of coal-based energy 
generation, such as India, China, and Poland. 
For these countries, the necessary steps are 
clear: a massive expansion of renewables and 
a continued coal-to-gas shift. 
And while all of these countries certainly 
need tailored solutions to balance the 
triangle of energy policy – sustainability, 
security of supply, and economic efficiency  – they’re all aiming for the same 
thing. After all, they all committed to the 
“phase-out of unabated coal power” at COP 
26. That means all countries have at least 
this goal in common, regardless of where 
they’re starting out. Replacing coal-fired 
power plants is an essential part of this goal. 
And while each country requires solutions 
tailored to their respective energy systems, 
the necessity to enact changes remains the 
same.
Toward a new energy system
Siemens Energy, 2022
Page 18
Published by
Siemens Energy AG
Freyeslebenstraße 1
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com/decarbonization-offerings
This publication is provided for informational pur  - 
poses only and you should not construe any 
information presented as legal, tax, investment, 
financial, or other professional advice. The content  
is of a general nature and does not address the 
specific circumstances of any particular market, event, 
application or installation, nor does it constitute a 
comprehensive or complete statement of the matters 
discussed or the laws relating thereto. Any infor  -
mation about Siemens Energy products and services is 
subject to change without notice. Expected capa - 
bilities or benefits may not apply in specific 
applications or be realized in all cases. Nothing in  
this document shall be deemed or construed to  
be a warranty or guarantee of the information, 
product(s), service(s) or method(s) described herein.
All product designations may be trademarks or 
product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. 
KG or other companies whose use by third parties for 
their own purposes could violate the rights of the 
owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.For more information, please contact:  
generation.siemens.energy@siemens-energy.com  
Authors: 
Thomas Frank, Karl Schoensteiner, Kerstin Ziegler
Editors: 
Hubertus Breuer, Marion Dimitriadou
Key Contributors:
Samuel Alt, Karen Goepfert, Dr. Johannes 
von Karczewski, Thomas Kuhlmann, Alexander 
Rentschler, Prof. Dr. Thomas Thiemann