siemens-energy.comBrownfield Transformation: 
Building a bridge to a new 
energy future
White paper
Brownfield Trans-  
formation: Building  
a bridge to a  
new energy future
We’re heading towards a carbon-free future, but we 
won’t get there overnight. The journey will require 
a complete technological toolkit. Apart from intelli -
gent energy management and improved energy 
efficiency, we need to decarbonize power gene  ra-
tion, for both utilities and industries. And since  
we can’t build new energy generation from scratch, 
assets considered burdensome today, such as  
coal-fired power plants, shouldn’t simply become 
stranded assets. With “Brownfield Transformation”, 
we can repurpose them as bridges to a new energy 
future. With this approach, existing plants are con-  
verted to help us reach the decarbonized economy 
we all aim for.
Brownfield Transformation is a holistic 
approach for decarbonizing legacy coal,  
oil, and natural gas-fired power plants. 
A first step would be, e. g., repowering 
steam power plants with highly efficient 
and flexible gas turbines. Going further, 
one could – and should – turn legacy  
assets into future-proof power plants, 
which may include power generation from 
renewable energy sources, various storage technologies, and grid stability services; 
today such conversion is already feasible at 
many sites. 
 Carrying out these primary steps lays down 
the groundwork for future net-zero energy 
systems. Such systems could facilitate 
sec tor coupling by, for example, integrating 
renewables, industry, or mobility sectors 
with the help of green hydrogen.
Essentially, Brownfield Transformation 
projects are more sustainable, in terms of 
reducing CO₂ emissions by reusing existing 
buildings, machines, and infrastructure, 
such as grid connections. Furthermore,  
due to climate change and extreme weather 
events, it’s essential for limiting further 
impervious areas.Also importantly, the continued employ -
ment of qualified personnel and continued 
use of existing infrastructure can lead to 
higher public acceptance, particularly when 
thousands of jobs in a certain region may  
be tied to a coal power plant, associated 
mines, etc.Moving towards a  
net-zero energy world
Sustainability Starting point Increase efficiency Integrated solution Target scenariosCoal- / oil- / gas-fired 
steam turbine plantFuel shift /
repowering / conversionsHybridization of
existing power plantNet zero
energy systems
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 3
Fossil-ﬁred plant
Coal-to-gas 
conversion
by repowering
Rotating grid 
stability conversion
Brownﬁeld 
engine exchange
Hybridization 
with integrated 
solutions
What to do with a fossil-fired  
power plant? 
From the outset, the path ahead might not 
be completely clear to a utility or industrial 
plant owner or operator. How to proceed 
can depend a lot on national decarboniza -
tion goals, which in most countries appear 
rather ambitious. And while some national 
decarbonization goals may be legally en  - 
forced, others may be demanded and 
shaped by the public. In addition, market 
mechanisms that are put in place, such as 
CO₂ pricing as well as public financial incen -
tives, could potentially make a brownfield 
conversion an economically sensible under -
taking and valuable investment. Never -
theless, the question arises as to whether 
converting an existing power plant in a 
cost-efficient manner can actually help achieve these targeted goals. Site conver -
sion options may include: brownfield engine 
exchange, which entails replacing existing 
gas turbines with new ones; coal-to-gas 
conversion; installing synchronous con -
densers with flywheels for grid stability;  
and the hybridization of power plants with 
energy storage and gas turbines fired by  
up to 100% hydrogen. 
Given the above options, when compared  
to greenfield projects, the potential lower 
investment costs for a Brownfield Trans-
formation project that allows for possible 
shorter implementation times, less paper -
work, and easier permits, should all be 
factors worth considering.
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 4
As there’s no one-size-fits-all solution, one 
step is essential: Energy System Design.  
 It is usually offered by either energy con -
sulting companies or OEMs such as Siemens 
Energy that also offer turnkey solutions.  
The existing setup allows Siemens Energy to 
form a common understanding of your site 
development plan, considering political, 
regulatory, and economic factors as well as 
short-term vs. long-term goals for the site.
An Energy System Design study may start out 
with an assessment of a utility or industrial 
power plant operator’s basic operational 
parameters. First, the optimization objectives 
are determined, such as economic concerns 
and carbon footprint reduction. In addition, 
the load profiles for heat and electricity have 
to be assessed. Moreover, existing, and future 
revenue streams should be identified, such  
as connections to the industrial environment, 
e. g., process heat and future hydrogen 
options. Like  wise, whether industrial byprod -
ucts, e. g., hydro gen, could be used as fuels at 
the power plant should be considered. Further more, an assessment should evaluate 
whether providing grid stability services, 
integration of renewables, such as wind or 
solar based on local weather con ditions, and 
additional hybridization, may be options for 
a given location. All these assessments and 
considerations help pro vide a basic under -
standing of the make up and potential of a 
given site. 
If decarbonization requirements turn out  
to be complex, an even more detailed study  
may need to be conducted, in the form of 
a data-based integrated technology and 
business case study that assesses future 
revenue streams and site surroundings  
using the currently available decarbonization 
portfolio. If technology preselection is a 
given, e. g., fuel switch, energy storage, heat 
pumps, etc., a project can be directly devel -
oped. Either way, a solution will likely com -
prise a combination of technology compo -
nents tailored to a company’s business case, 
market demands as well as efficiency and 
decarbonization goals.Making the right decision:  
Energy System Design
Energy System Design allows to find the optimal technology mix that accounts for both technological and economic boundary conditions.  
It involves all available levers for decarbonization, enabling future-proof solutions.
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 5
Coal-to-gas shift:  
a bridge to a sustainable energy mix
Repurposing legacy power plantsCoal-fired power plants emit around 10 Gt 
of CO₂ per year1 and are considered one of 
the largest emitters of greenhouse gases in 
the power generation industry. Today, while 
there are substantial economic reasons for 
converting legacy coal fleets to gas, the 
pressure to decarbonize is largely driven by 
climate change, policies and regulations, 
and public opinion. For power generation, 
it’s expected that decarbonization will be 
pursued in three phases. In the first phase, 
coal generation will be converted to natural 
gas, supporting the continued growth of renewables. In the second phase, renew -
ables will become more prevalent, while 
natural gas infrastructure will start co-firing 
hydrogen and other clean fuels. In the third 
phase, which would be around mid-century, 
one may begin to augment the predomi -
nance of natural gas, and then potentially 
replace it with clean fuels, which would be 
an essential part of hybrid power plants – 
power plants that could integrate renew -
ables, electrolyzers, energy storage, and 
other elements for carbon-free energy 
generation.
The most obvious and common solution for 
decarbonizing power generation is replacing 
old assets with more efficient technology 
that enables less emission of greenhouse 
gases. While it’s certainly possible to shut 
down and recycle parts of a coal-fired power 
plant, one can also transform the existing 
asset into an advanced power generation 
facility. Of course, this isn’t a new idea.  
Over the past 20 years, several large-scale 
pro jects around the globe have proven to  
be technically and commercially sound. 
With the effects of climate change 
becoming increasingly apparent, and new 
legislation, decarbonization targets, and 
specific coal exit plans being set in motion, 
repowering legacy coal-fired power plants is 
expected to experience a strong renaissance 
in terms of embodying optimized economics 
and performance. Moreover, compared to 
greenfield projects, they represent a logical business case. The potential business case 
could include lower investment cost, 
reduced permits, shorter implementation 
time, and reusing existing grid connections 
and other physical and social infrastructure 
already in place. Moreover, these re - 
powering transformations are designed to 
incorporate technologies, such as energy 
storage, energy conversion or carbon 
capture, all of which are intended to help 
achieve zero carbon emissions at the end  
of the transformation journey. 
Repowering existing plants ranges from 
a simple boiler conversion from coal-to-  
natural gas firing to so-called “topping”, 
“booster”, “parallel repowering” and finally 
“full repowering”, whereby not only fuel  
is changed from coal to gas, but a power 
plant is converted into a highly efficient 
combined cycle power plant. Here’s a short 
description of these options:1 IEA (2021), World Energy 
Outlook 2021, IEA, Paris  
www.iea.org/reports/world-  
energy-outlook-2021 , p. 130.
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 6
A boiler /steam generator (SG) conversion 
involves a modification of the burner tech -
nology and a change of coal or oil to gas. 
While switching to gas as a fuel does not 
increase the efficiency of the steam plant, 
it may reduce CO₂ emissions by up to 50%.
Topping requires the installation of a small 
gas turbine, regardless of whether the fuel 
is switched from coal to gas or not. The ther   - 
mal energy contained in the flue gas of the 
topping gas turbine is fed directly to the 
steam generator of the existing plant. This 
typically results in a slight improvement in 
overall plant efficiency.
Boosting  requires the installation of an 
additional – usually medium – gas turbine 
and a waste heat boiler. In contrast to 
topping, the heat energy contained in the 
flue gas of the gas turbine is used with the 
aid of a heat exchanger to generate high-  
pressure steam and preheat the feed water 
of the existing process. Boosting essentially 
aims to make the steam power plant mar -
ginally more flexible, while at the same time 
slightly increasing efficiency and reducing 
CO₂ emissionsBoiler / steam generator conversion
Topping
Boosting
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 7
Parallel repowering  goes one step further 
by utilizing the steam contained in the flue 
gas of a newly installed large gas turbine 
with the aid of a heat recovery steam gener -
ator for additional feedwater preheating and 
steam generation in the existing steam 
power plant process. This conversion is also 
designed to increase the flexibility and 
efficiency of steam power plants, but to a 
greater degree than boosting.
Full repowering  includes not only the fuel 
change from coal or oil to gas, but also the 
conversion of the existing steam power 
plant to a combined cycle power plant. 
However, the conversion of the existing 
steam power plant to a combined cycle 
power plant (CCPP) can also be imple -
ment  ed for direct steam power plants with 
gas-fired boiler. In a full repowering project, 
one or more gas turbines with downstream 
heat recovery steam generators replace the 
steam generator previously fired with coal, 
oil, or gas.Parallel Repowering
Full Repowering
Legend
Gas Turbine (GT)Reused portion of existing 
Steam Power Plant (SPP)
Fuel Supply
Steam Turbine (ST) Flue Gas / Exhaust Gas
Power / Electricity  
Generator (G)Steam
Water
Steam Generator /  
Boiler (SG)
Steam Condenser (Cond.)
Heat Recovery Exchanger (HRE)
Feedwater Pump (FP)
Heat Exchanger (HE) Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG)
Deaerator
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 8
Depending on the site specifics, such full 
repowering can be implemented as a sup -
plemental solution, where the simple cycle 
gas turbine installation and the HRSG would 
be built outside of the existing turbine or boiler building, or as an integrative solution, 
where all new equipment would be installed 
within the boundaries of the existing plant 
buildings. Both approaches have their pros 
and cons. 
The supplemental outdoor approach requires 
enough free space for constructing new 
equipment at the plant location, preferably 
close to the steam turbine hall. Connecting 
old and new equipment is less complex and 
the overall downtime of the unit during the 
reconstruction period should be shorter. How -
ever, it’s expected to be more costly and less 
sustainable compared to an indoor integrative 
approach, as it requires significantly more 
new construction work and material.
Either way, the potential benefits of both 
approaches are impressive: CO₂ emissions 
may be reduced by up to 70%2 thanks largely 
to the fuel switch in combination with a 
significant increase in efficiency from an 
average of 38% to up to 63%.3 Based on 
various market analyses, such as those 
conducted by the IEA World Energy Outlook 
and HIS Markit, up to 25% of the world’s 
installed coal-fired power plants alone have 
the potential for full repowering.A special case of repowering is coal-fired 
combined heat and power (CHP) plants. 
Keeping CHP plants in their current location 
is highly important for the continued supply 
of district heating networks and/or industrial 
plants. Given this, Brownfield Transforma -
tion is even more important for CHP plants 
than for power plants exclusively generating 
electric power. By integrating modern 
high-efficiency gas turbines, CHP plants may 
significantly increase both electrical effi -
ciency and heat utilization; integration of 
modern high-efficiency gas turbines are also 
expected to improve operational flexibility. 
Going even further, as part of this 
repowering process, CHP plants can also 
undergo hybridization by installing heat 
storage systems (typically hot water 
storage), which are intended to improve the 
plant operation’s economic efficiency.2 Unit specific results may vary.
3 Kraftwerkstechnik 2021, 
Power Plant Technology, ed. 
Michael Beckmann, Antonio 
Hurtado; p. 40.
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 9
Brownfield Engine Exchange (BEX)
One of the easiest and obvious means for 
transforming an existing power plant with 
gas turbines is replacing these turbines with 
more efficient ones. Compared to regular 
standard maintenance or modifying and 
upgrading an existing turbine, an engine 
exchange might be economically favorable 
in the long run. 
As energy efficiency is essential when 
reaching climate goals, BEX is one of the 
suitable options for existing gas-fired 
power generation. With the BEX approach, 
the existing water steam cycle can be 
maintained, while potentially achieving 
greater output with lower NOx, CO, and CO₂ emissions relative to power output. 
The BEX approach aims at providing 
better operational flexibility by allowing 
part load capability and fast ramp rates, 
improving responsiveness to electricity 
demand and market conditions. Moreover, 
new turbines are expected to require less 
maintenance than older models. Finally, 
Siemens Energy’s advanced gas turbines 
are designed for hydrogen co-firing, thus 
making the power plant H₂-ready. For 
many turbines in operation, a brownfield 
engine exchange may therefore offer 
an economically sound solution in the 
long term, thereby building a bridge 
towards a decarbonized future.
An old gas turbine is being 
replaced at a power plant in 
Convington County, Alabama.  
It enables the power plant  
to produce 114 megawatts  
(MW) of cleaner energy, up  
from an average of 102 MW.
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 10
Inertia is the resistance of a physical object 
to any change in velocity – essentially, the 
kinetic energy that keeps something moving. 
In energy terms, inertia is energy stored in 
the physical rotating mass of a turbo set. It 
helps slow the rate at which the grid fre -
quency changes, as rapid changes can create 
instability in the system. Yet its availability is 
shrinking. With fewer fossil power plants 
connected to the grid, there are also less 
large spinning turbines on the grid. In addi -
tion, the increasing amount of renewable 
power does not add inertia to the grid. As a 
result, the danger lies in having less inertia 
than necessary in the system, and with it, 
the risk of power outages increases.
But with this challenge, a new opportunity 
arises in the form of rotating grid stabilizers. 
Designed to supply the inertia necessary to 
help stabilize the grid, these stabilizers can be 
installed in former power plants. A rotat ing 
grid stabilizer is a large piece of spinning 
machinery made up of a generator – also 
called a synchronous condenser – and usually 
a flywheel, which when connected to the 
grid, is designed to provide inertia by spin -
ning continuously. By spinning in sync with 
the grid frequency, it contributes to the 
stability of the system by dampening fluctua -
tions in the grid frequency, just as car shock 
absorbers dampen a bump in the road.
In addition, rotating grid stabilizers can help 
support voltage stability by providing reac -
tive power while enhancing grid strength at 
connection points by providing short circuit 
power. Moreover, rotating grid stabilizers are 
designed to respond inherently without time 
delay. They also help integrate renewables 
into the electricity system, ultimately leading 
to further decarbonization. Therefore, it’s 
not surprising that rotating grid stabilizers 
are experiencing a renaissance today. Essen -
tially, they’re designed to stabilize the grid 
while reducing the number of fossil power 
plants over time, thus making way for a 
decarbonized energy system. 
Brownfield conversions to rotating grid 
stabilizers can happen in three ways: 
1. A basic conversion consists in converting 
existing generators into synchronous 
condensers at comparably low cost. It’s an attractive way to repurpose generators 
in coal plants faced with exit decisions.
2. Adding a flywheel to the train maximizes 
system inertia.
3. Finally, a hybrid train conversion adds an 
additional synchro-self-shifting (SSS) 
clutch between a gas or steam turbine 
and the generator, which is intended to 
enable both generation and grid stabiliz -
ing mode for maximum flexibility. This 
can be applied to existing gas turbine or 
steam turbine trains. The flexibility be -
tween power generation and grid stabi-
lizer mode may also enable additional 
revenue streams by providing grid stabi-
lity when no active power is needed.
All of these different solutions are being 
implemented worldwide. At the Killing-  
holme Power Plant in the UK, for instance, 
two steam turbines are being converted 
to synchronous condensers with added 
flywheels. This way, the old assets  
can continue to operate as rotating grid  
stabilizers, and help with the more decen -
tralized, renewable power generation.Rotating grid stability conversions
A synchronous condenser such 
as this one at the Killingolme 
Power Plant in the UK can supply 
short circuit power, reactive 
power, inertia, as well as revenue 
from grid ancillary services.
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 11
In the long run, many power plant sites will 
likely become hybrid power plants, laying 
the foundation for a new energy system. 
They’ll connect and integrate various func -
tional elements, such as different means of 
generating power. For example, renewable 
power sources, such as solar and wind, 
or gas turbines, capable of burning 100% 
green hydrogen produced by electrolyzers 
with clean energy, would be integrated. 
Hybrid power plants would also include 
energy storage systems – such as hydro  gen, 
batteries, or thermal storage – and appli -
cations for grid stability services, such as 
the aforementioned RGS. And running all of 
these different elements efficiently would 
require digital management systems that 
are designed to flexibly and automatically manage fluctuating and distributed power 
supply and demand. One main advantage 
of building these hybrid power plants on 
existing infrastructure is that they bring 
significant cost savings and reduced life 
cycle CO₂ emissions, thereby promoting 
synergies between existing and new assets. 
Let´s consider hydrogen power plants as an 
example. Hydrogen power plants integrate 
various components into one plant solution. 
Ideally, it means that renewables are used 
to produce green hydrogen with the help  
of electrolyzers when excess electricity is 
available. The power plant re-electrifies the 
energy stored in green hydrogen when 
renewables can’t meet current demand. 
Likewise, the waste heat produced by the Hybrid power plants
Hybrid power plants integrate 
renewables, energy storage and 
thermal energy generation.  
And they enable sector coupling,  
the electrification of energy-  
intensive sectors of the economy. 
SECTOR COUPLING
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 12
turbine may also be utilized by, e. g., 
feeding it into district heating systems that 
only require input heat in the range of 
150°C. The end result is an intricate inte -
gration of power production elements  
that requires an intelligent control system 
designed to optimize the different ele -
ments. 
But this complex scenario won’t be realized 
overnight. That’s why, in most cases, it’s 
expected that moving towards a hydrogen 
power plant will happen by upgrading a 
gas-fired power plant. Thus, the combustion 
system of the gas turbine will require an 
upgrade. The upgrade will be designed 
to allow for a higher percentage of 
hydrogen burn. And this upgrade should 
occur before incorporating a natural gas 
and hydrogen fuel blending station and 
ensuring all other relevant systems of the 
plant are hydrogen capable as well. As a 
next step, hydrogen could be produced 
on-site using an electrolyzer. And with this, 
one would also add hydrogen storage, and possibly even a hydrogen pipeline 
supplying, e. g, industries nearby.
One current example of a power plant 
taking the first steps towards becoming a 
hybrid power plant is located in Leipzig. 
With two new gas turbines for the Leipzig 
Süd district heating power plant in Ger -
many, this modernized plant is expected 
to contribute to the decarbonization 
of the city’s power supply in two ways. 
First, the investment is intended to make 
Stadtwerke Leipzig operate independent 
of district heat from a lignite-fired power 
plant; and second, within a few years, 
the plant is expected to operate with up 
to 30 to 50% green hydrogen. The long-
term goal is to operate the facility with 
up to 100% hydrogen. Furthermore, the 
modernization package includes a battery 
solution that’s designed to enable the 
plant’s black-start capability, so that the 
power plant could be started up without 
an external power supply, even in the 
unlikely event of a widespread blackout.4
The thermal power plant in 
Theiss, Austria, is the first  
to install a hydrogen-capable  
gas turbine.4 https://press.siemens-energy.
com/global/en/pressrelease/
gas-turbines-siemens-ener -
gy-are-providing-leipzig-climate-
neutral-power-supply
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 13
Industry plants can also support the path 
towards decarbonization. They also work 
with assets that make a good case for 
Brownfield Transformation. Unlike the 
energy industry, wherein power is the final 
product, industrial power plants primarily 
support the manufacturing of a product. 
So, in the end, it’s the carbon footprint of 
such a product that matters. But certainly 
energy-intensive industries, such as mining, 
chemicals, pulp and paper, steel, or cement, 
should seriously consider modernizing 
their power plants in order to reduce their 
carbon emissions. Like stand-alone power 
plants, industry plants can also switch 
fuels from coal or oil to gas, modernize 
gas turbines to co-fire more H₂, or increase 
the share of H₂ further with BEX. 
Another option is transforming a gas 
turbine plant to a CCPP with the help of 
steam tailing – this involves adding a 
complete water-steam-cycle including a 
Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG) 
and a steam turbine, thereby addressing 
increased power or heat demand as well 
as improving efficiency. To maintain the 
flexibility of an open-cycle gas turbine, the 
existing exhaust stack will be modified to 
operate as an exhaust bypass stack. An 
extant CCPP, which requires a bypass stack 
for increased flexibility, can be retrofitted.Today, there are various projects worldwide 
aiming to reduce the carbon-footprint of 
industrial processes and their end prod -
ucts. As one example, Siemens Energy is 
modernizing an industrial power plant for a 
BASF-factory producing mainly polyurethane 
in Schwarzheide, Germany. The Brownfield 
Engine Exchange involves replacing a gas 
turbine with a new, highly efficient industrial 
gas turbine as well as servicing this machine 
for a period of 15 years. It also includes a 
battery storage solution that’s designed to 
enable the entire power plant to start up 
without requiring external power supply. 
In another case, the E.U. – with its ambi -
tious climate goals in sight – supports 
HYFLEXPOWER, the world’s first Power-to-
X-to-Power demonstrator project at a paper 
factory in Saillat-sur-Vienne in France. 
For this an existing Siemens SGT-400 
industrial gas turbine will be upgraded to 
convert stored hydrogen into electricity and 
thermal energy. Driven by a consortium 
that includes Siemens Energy, the German 
Aerospace Center (DLR), and other com -
panies and universities, its first firing is 
planned for 2023. The goal is to completely 
decarbonize the plant’s energy production. 
It’s projected that energy production 
based solely on green hydrogen would 
save up to 65,000 tons of CO₂ per year.  Industry plants
Modernizing an industrial power 
plant: At the BASF Schwarzheide 
industrial plant a new efficient 
gas turbine was installed, as well 
as a battery storage system for 
black-start capability. 
5 https://press.siemens-energy.
com/global/en/pressrelease/
siemens-modernize-industrial-
power-plant-basf-germany- key-
components
6 https://press.siemens-energy.
com/global/en/pressrelease/
hyflexpower-worlds-first-inte -
grated-power-x-power-hydro -
gen-gas-turbine-demonstrator
7 Unit specific results may vary.
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 14
As much as we’d like to have a decarbonized 
energy system based on renewables, with 
energy storage solutions, rotating grid 
stabilizers, green hydrogen, and sector 
coupling to be a beautiful reality tomorrow, 
it will take some time. And as we embark on 
this path, we have to work with what we 
have – and that includes power plants that 
can’t and shouldn’t simply be shut down for 
economic, social, and sustainability reasons. 
Despite the obvious need, transforming these assets over time won’t happen magi -
cally. It takes the right political and financial 
measures that could lead to new market 
mechanisms as incentives for investments in 
decarbonization technologies to drive this 
potential, future development forward. For 
this reason, we also need close cooperation 
between policy makers and the private 
sector, and among companies competing for 
efficient as well as affordable energy solu -
tions. Our energy future –  
beyond technical solutions
Building a bridge to a new energy future: Brownfield Transformation
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 15
Published by
Siemens Energy AG
Freyeslebenstrasse 1
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com/ brownfield-transformation
This publication is provided for informational pur  - 
poses only and you should not construe any 
information presented as legal, tax, investment, 
financial, or other professional advice. The content  
is of a general nature and does not address the 
specific circumstances of any particular market, event, 
application or installation, nor does it constitute a 
comprehensive or complete statement of the matters 
discussed or the laws relating thereto. Any infor  -
mation about Siemens Energy products and services is 
subject to change without notice. Expected capa - 
bilities or benefits may not apply in specific 
applications or be realized in all cases. Nothing in  
this document shall be deemed or construed to  
be a warranty or guarantee of the information, 
product(s), service(s) or method(s) described herein.
All product designations may be trademarks or 
product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. 
KG or other companies whose use by third parties for 
their own purposes could violate the rights of the 
owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.For more information, please contact:  
eraforum@siemens-energy.com 
Authors: 
Günther Ebner, Norbert Henkel, Francisco 
Pérez-Ojeda Rodríguez, Ronald Schwarz, Jan Slad
Editors: 
Hubertus Breuer, Marion Dimitriadou
Key Contributors:  
Annika Gerloff, Andreas Müller, Juliana Trockel,  
Kai Woestmann