siemens-energy.com/biomassTurning biomass 
into value
Power generation equipment for biomass-fueled plants
Providing a future-proof source of electricity 
and contributing to lower CO₂ emissions, 
power produced from biomass is increasingly 
economically viable. The interests of opera -
tors and investors, on the one hand, and those of utilities and grids, on the other, are 
becoming more closely aligned. This is 
because ensuring a stable power supply as 
well as the financial success of the power 
plant are common goals.An age-old fuel put  
to new use
Energy generated from biomass
Understanding the issues
Constant striving toward clean and environmentally-friendly power generation
Maximum efficiency reduces the amount of CO₂ and other –  
partly toxic – emissions released during biomass incineration.
 
 
Challenge for power generation to be economically viable
In the long run, low maintenance and service costs offset the initial costs over the entire 
lifetime, coupled with the efficient use of the fuel, which further lowers the overall costs.
 
Continuous availability of base load to the grid
With reliable equipment backed by comprehensive servicing and maintenance options, we 
are able to optimize the degree of availability and so maximize the amount of revenue 
from the grid. With our solid understanding of the processes involved, Siemens Energy can 
support you in ensuring a reliable power supply.
Typical biomass fuels are derived from a wide 
variety of materials. Some common examples 
are forestry by-products, agricultural waste, 
municipal waste, landfill gas, and syngas.  
In addition, there are many next-generation 
biomass feedstocks currently in different 
stages of commercialization. These new fuels 
impact plant sizes as well as the feedstock 
supply chain, creating significant opportuni -
ties for additional fleet expansion.
2Turning biomass into value
Centered on biomass
An integral part of the industry
Green power 
Following such initiatives as the Paris climate accord, biomass energy for both industry and 
electricity providers is a reliable – and sustainable – source of baseload power. It also helps 
in meeting environmental targets, absorbing more CO₂ than it emits, and efficient equip -
ment used in power generation leads to fewer emissions at the plant site. Biomass is a 
relatively cheap base load and, depending on the local regulations, surplus electricity 
produced from it can be fed back to the grid, making it even more economically viable.
Closed-cycle economies 
Installing a biomass power plant to burn the on-site waste that occurs as a by-product of 
industrial processes, such as from pulp, paper and sugar mills or animal biomass, closes the 
factory input cycle. It also eliminates the need for waste disposal, lowers energy costs and 
maintains a high availability of the power supply. Incinerating renewables is thus a further 
step toward sustainability and a closed-cycle economy. These by-products need no addi -
tional processing and further strengthen the financial feasibility of the biomass plant.
Investors
The possibility of running a biomass plant on diverse feedstocks adds to its viability while 
ensuring the availability of the fuel supply. Apart from achieving maximum output with a 
minimum of life-cycle costs, another decisive economic factor is the need for appropriate 
frameworks in the country concerned. These regulate such variables as electricity prices, 
the level of tipping tax, and funding. Finally, many countries are subsidizing biomass-based 
power generation to make it economically feasible.
Flexible, reliable operation
Our steam and gas turbines have been installed in 
over 200 biomass-fueled plants worldwide with a 
proven record of applicability and availability.
Lowest lifecycle costs
All our turbines offer a long life cycle thanks to reliable 
equipment that is backed by our global service.Professional project development
As a partner, we offer you our full support, from 
project development right up to technical and 
commercial operation, dealing with all the parties 
involved and avoiding any complications.
Easier financing
Due to our background and know-how, we can facili -
tate the financing of your project and even participate 
with our own financial services (SFS).As a leader in the field, Siemens Energy supports all these interests with
 5 Turning biomass into value
The potential of biomass
Fast facts about crops used for biomass
Sugar cane 
469 GJ / haOil palm fruit
175 GJ / haWheat 
49 GJ / haSorghum
23 GJ / haSeed cotton
42 GJ / ha
Wood
87 GJ / ha
Sugar beet 
191 GJ / haCassava
92 GJ / haSoybeans
45 GJ / haFruit 
Energy (calorific value) 
per hectare*Maize
24 GJ / ha
Rice, paddy 
75 GJ / ha1 ha
* High deviations exist because of climate, soil and agricultural techniques. Yield ranking is not the same for a single field.
   Calorific value approx. 20 MJ / Kg, when completely dehydrated. One of the challenges is producing a pre-defined grade of biomass.Energy harvested by area
10.8
tons per hourBiomass  
with 18MJ/ kg
fed to boiler50
MW(th )Boiler 
with ~80% efﬁciency  
generat es heatInput / cost of bioma ss Thermal energ y
16
MW(el)Steam turbin e
using thermal ene rgy
from boilerRevenue / power outputOption 1: Lowering cost of fuel  – use less biomass input but harvest the same amount of powerBiomass  
with 18MJ/ kg
fed to boiler50
MW(th )Boiler 
with ~80% efﬁciency  
generat es heatInput / cost of bioma ss Thermal energ y
16
MW(el)Steam turbin e
using thermal ene rgy
from boilerRevenue / power outputTypical setup in a biomass plant
Biomass  
with 18MJ/ kg
fed to boiler50
MW(th )Boiler 
with ~80% efﬁciency  
generat es heatInput / cost of bioma ss Thermal energ y
MW(el)Steam turbin e
using thermal ene rgy
from boilerRevenue / power outputOption 2: Increase revenue  – higher power output by using the the same amount of biomass fuelOur focus on both fuel costs and revenue
tons per hour12.5
tons per hour12.5 18.5
6  7Turning biomass into value  Turning biomass into value
However, biomass fuel is highly demanding 
in terms of the logistics involved, which 
ultimately impacts on revenue. Due to its 
composition and seasonal changes, biomass 
is also subject to varying quality and thus 
availability. In addition, the planning phase 
for a biomass power plant requires meti-
culous coordination, advanced technical 
expertise, and convincing arguments for 
governing bodies and societies alike.
As an experienced equipment manufacturer, 
Siemens Energy is thus the partner of choice 
when it comes to commissioning a new biomass plant. Covering all aspects of 
biomass power plant technology, we 
provide:
• Project development from beginning  
to end
• Consulting from an early stage
• Financing (with our own Siemens 
 Financial Services)
• Environmental, health and safety  
expertiseWith increasingly stringent climate regulations on a 
national and international scale, electricity providers  
are increasingly looking to gain from the benefits  
offered by building new biomass capacity. 
Worldwide, combustion is by far the most commonly applied bioenergy tech -
nology, either as co-firing or as a 100 percent biomass full-firing. 
A biomass co-firing business model can help coal utilities to achieve their environ -
mental targets (below 550 gCO2/ kWh). Because biomass is one of the most capi -
tal-efficient transitions from coal to full renewables, it offers one possibility for large 
utilities to comply with renewable targets while using their existing assets. The 
implementation in large scale coal power plants with low risk is possible in a short 
term.Co-firing – On the way to renewablesA holistic approach
Covering every aspect
   Heat pr oduction
Steam pr oduction
Power pr oductionWood biomassFeeder Grinder
Wood chipper
Boile r
Steam  turbine
Generat orBaghou se
HP heat er
Condensate 
pumpFeed wat er pump
Deaer ator 
storage tank
LP-PreheaterHP heat erInduced fan
Turboset
• Steam  turbine
• Gen erator
• Con trol system
• AuxiliariesProcess contr ol
• Automation
• Instrumen tation
• Process controlProcess contr ol
• Instrumentation 
• Process  cont rol 
Cooling  tower
• Automatio n
• Drives
• Instrumentation
• Motors
• Motor cont rol  
cente rs
Operations
• Balanc e of plant ser vice
• Prevent ive mainte nance
• Remedi al main tenanc e
• Secu rity systemsSuperheater
• Automation
• Circuit protectio n
• Drives
• Instrumen tation
• Motors
• Process control
Transmissi on lineSwitchgear
• Busw ay
• Circuit protection
• Panelboar ds
• SMART GRID
• Switc hgear
Transf orme rs
• Low voltage
• Medium voltage
• High voltageWood Heat Exhaust Electricity Data Steam
• Automat ion 
• Drives 
• Mo tors Siemens Energy components for biomass power plants
8  9Turning biomass into value  Turning biomass into value
Get the power right
Power equipment for your needs
Siemens Energy has a comprehensive range of products 
for biomass power applications. Our experts will assist  
you in selecting the optimum machine that meets all 
your application requirements while at the same time 
minimizing the overall investment costs.
Learn more: www.siemens-energy.com/steamturbines
Our portfolio
Siemens Energy steam turbines typical for biomass applications
Siemens Energy generators typical for biomass applications
Additional suitable products4560100200250250
200 MW 100 0.1SST-800
SST-700 / 900
SST-600
SST-500
SST-400
SST-300
SST-200
D-R R / RS
D-R B50 Hz / 60 Hz / variable speed
Industrial steam turbines DRESSER-RAND steam turbines
25
1220
SGen-1000A series 
SGen-100A series 
Industrial and aero-
derivative gas turbines  
up to 66 MWGenerators   
up to 370 MVAGas engines   
up to 2 MW600 MVA 300 200 100 400 500 0180370
10  11Turning biomass into value  Turning biomass into value
60
108,000
* All numbers mentioned are exemplary and must be 
re-evaluated according to customer-specific conditions. 
Given numbers of 1,000 start are exemplary and may 
change depending on actual operating condition.daily
starts10 hours  
per day
operation
6 months
per yearyears
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5years of operation
operating hours
maintenance
recommended 
for ecery
1,000
startsmaintenance
interval 
at every
5
yearsTickle out the  
last ounce
Challenge efficiency Daily restarts
Challenge robust operating conditions
Long lifecycles  
Challenge robust operating conditions
Some mill operators produce only for six months a year, but re-start the power plant equipment on a daily 
basis and operate it for ten hours
Double casing reheat solution 
SST-700 / 900
Single casing reheat solution 
SST-600After 60 years of operation this exemplary mill operator would 
have accumulated about 108,000 operating hours. Maintenance 
intervals for steam turbines with many starts and stops are 
recommended after every 1000 starts. The mill owner in this 
example would, thus, have to schedule a maintenance cycle 
every five years.*Integrating a steam reheat system into your 
biomass plant is one of the best ways to 
increase overall plant performance. With 
the Siemens Energy reheat turbine package 
live steam is fed through a high pressure 
(HP) turbine, returned to the steam gener -
ator to increase the steam temperature and 
then passed through a low pressure (LP) 
turbine. Raising the temperature of the steam 
passing from a high to a low-pressure 
turbine allows for greater output using the 
same amount of fuel. Siemens Energy 
offers single and double-casing reheat 
solutions. You can also use our reheat 
solutions for a power output of 10 to 12 MW 
or below.Biomass plants, such as palm oil mills are often operated for the season only and the equipment is shut 
down during off-season or even after daily operation. All these regimes of operation are tough conditions 
for the steam turbine. 
Compared to a steam turbine, which is evenly driven with the same load in steam power plants, a flexible 
operation, as is usual in decentralized power generation from renewable energies or in industrial sectors 
such as palm oil production, reduces the life of a turbine tremendously. However: Siemens Energy steam 
turbines are designed for 200,000 operating hours.
12  13Turning biomass into value  Turning biomass into value
Decades of experience  
with frequent starts
Load changes and the increased number of start-
stop cycles cause thermally induced stresses, 
which are a challenge for every steam turbine.
Large thermal stress especially arises at the start 
of the turbine when incoming steam with tem -
peratures higher than 450 ° C hits the components 
some of which, e.g. the inner parts heating up fast -
er than others. Changes in the design of the 
 Siemens Energy steam turbines therefore aim on 
fast heating of the turbine to enable fast heating 
through and eventually fast start times. For exam -
ple, the casing design with a small wall thickness  
is designed for such frequent starts
Also, the low-pressure blades are exposed to high 
mechanical stress when the steam turbine is start -
ed and stopped frequently. Especially the blade 
feet are crucial. At up to 10,000 rotation speed per 
minute and higher, tremendous centrifugal forces 
of several tons are generated and the blade tips 
may reach supersonic speeds.
Siemens Energy has decades of experience with 
steam turbines, which are frequently started and 
has been supplying turbines that are operated 
flexibly on a daily basis since the 1980s. This has 
given our engineers important insights into how 
the blade design for such turbines must be de -
signed and what thermo-mechanical stress arises.
Power plant operation
As the core of the power plant, the control system must be 
designed to perform all tasks safely, precisely and reliably. 
And in today’s highly competitive markets, increasing 
output – including maximizing commercial availability – is 
key. Our proven control systems have been developed to 
meet the demands for simple, reliable, day-to-day opera -
tion as well as for fast reactions in critical situations  
to ensure your power plant’s performance.Extending to servicing timed to coincide 
with boiler intervals, Siemens Energy 
offers a range of services pioneering tailor-
made digital services that enable new 
mainte nance models to help customers 
achieve neverbefore-possible perfor -
mance out comes. We also offer the 
remote process control of your plant.
Furthermore, Siemens Energy’ extensive 
experience monitoring several thousand 
connected rotating equipment world -wide has shown a major upside to remote 
performance monitoring and diagnostics 
(RDS). By averting trips and resulting forced 
outages via early detection of potential 
faults and preventive remediation equip -
ment availability can be increased.
Another benefit is extending the life cycle 
of components due to more proactive, 
con ditions-based, and predictive main -
tenance approaches that can potentially 
save considerable maintenance costs.
Plant equipment
Whichever combustion technology is used in your biomass 
plant, installing a Siemens Energy turbine ensures the 
highest possible performance. We can also supply auxiliary 
equipment such as generators, condenser systems, moni -
toring and control systems, as well as power transmission 
equipment.More than the sum  
of the parts
Partnering with the best
To gain a comprehensive overview of each specific project, Siemens 
Energy offers its expertise in consultancy from an early stage, taking  
all the relevant factors into account. We are then able to supply the  
full range of equipment and services necessary, drawing on our trusted 
and experienced partners as required.
When you choose Siemens Energy, you gain  access 
to several leading boiler producers.  Siemens  Energy 
works with several partners to deliver the best fit 
boiler for each application. To help you understand 
what is on offer, you might consider one of our 
partners, Siemens HTT. Siemens HTT creates cus -
tom-made heat recovery steam generators 
(HRSGs), industrial and utility boilers, and related 
equipment. With over 80 years of experience and 815 HRSGs installed across five continents, 
 Siemens HTT is a leading solutions provider for 
refineries, the petrochemical industry, and more. 
 Siemens HTT provides various types of steam 
generators using gaseous, liquid, and solid fuels 
which include biomass such as sewage sludge and 
sugarcane residues. By choosing Siemens HTT, you 
can further enhance your plant and benefit from 
the specialist support of Energy.Our boiler partners
Remote performance monitoring and diagnostics (RDS) ensure early detection and predictive maintenance.Service and remote monitoring 
16  17Turning biomass into value  Turning biomass into value
Indonesia, sugar mill makes use of  biomass waste
CV Sejati owns the sugar mill Kreber-2 in Malang (Province of East Java).  
In 2012 Dresser-Rand delivered a multi-stage K3 steam turbine, which 
since then gerantes 3,000 kW out of bagasse.
Sweden, district heating for an even cleaner environment
Inaugurated in March 2010, the Igelsta district heating plant uses a biomass 
fuel mix consisting of about 90 % renewable fuels, such as forest refuse, 
wood chips, tree bark, and 10 % non-recyclable waste paper and plastic. 
The plant generates 200 MW heat and 85 MW electricity, the equivalent of 
heating 50,000 house  holds and producing electricity for 100,000 homes. 
The counter-pressure  SST-800 steam turbine is a so-called tandem 
compound turbine with the added advantage of consistently splitting the 
heat capacity between the two district heaters even if the turboset runs at 
part load.
Denmark, energy surplus brings down costs
The Inbicon Biomass Refinery Kalundborg is one of the first “second gener -
ation” biofuels plants to turn straw into bioethanol and pellets. The plant is 
fully integrated, designed for commercial production with automatic opera -
tion 24 / 7 and a limited staff.The best of references
Some of our success stories
Steam turbine:  SST-800
Power output: 90 MWInlet pressure:  85 bar / 1,305 psi
Inlet temperature: 540 °C / 1,004 °F
Thailand, more energy from biomass waste
Completed in 2015, the high-pressure (backpressure) steam turbine 
provides a reliable and high-performance electricity supply for the Mitr Phol 
sugar mill. Following their installation, the Siemens Energy turboset 
produces more electricity than the previous solution, while using the same 
amount of fuels.
Scope of supply:
• 2 × Steam turbine SST-300
• Simatic PCS 7 automated process control system
• Nahmat pan controlF
Feedstock: 
33.000 tons of straw p. a., Fermentation and distillation
Products:
Per year, 5,300 tons of fuel, 12,100 tons of cattle feed from the C5 molasses 
and 14,300 tons of pellets from the lignin
Scope of supply: 
Power distribution, control systems and process instruments
Indonesia, turn biogas into electricity
The Sei Pelakar palm oil mill in the Jambi Province of Sumatra, Indonesia, 
owned by PT. Kresna Duta Agroindo, improved its effluent anaerobic treat -
ment system into a new covered biodigester system to capture the biogas 
produced during the anaerobic digestion process. The mill’s capacity is 
60 t/h, 285,000 tons of fresh fruit bunch per year. In addition to the crude 
palm oil extraction, Pelakar mill also processes kernel nuts. The biogas 
collected could then be used to generate enough power to run the 7.5 t / h 
kernel crushing plant at the mill, and meet the estate’s electricity demands. 
Scope of supply:
2 × containerized biogas gen-sets SGE-36SL, 600 kW-rated
Indonesia, turn biomass waste into power
PT Astra Agro Lestari, owns palm oil mills in the province of Aceh and is one 
of the largest palm oil plantations owner in Indonesia. It fully commits to 
the RSPO-rules. Dresser-Rand delivered in 2009 a multi-stage KG 2 steam 
turbine. 
Steam turbine:  D-R KG2 Power output:  800 kW
Steam turbine: D-R K3 Power output:  3,000 kW
18  19Turning biomass into value  Turning biomass into value
Published by 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 München
Germany
For more information, please contact
Phone: +49 911 6505 6505
E-mail: support@siemens-energy.com
www.siemens-energy.com/biomass
© Siemens Energy, 2021  
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.