Page 1/2Press
Tokyo, Japan, June 5th, 2018
Siemens to supply steam turbine to Japanese
biomass plant
·50 MW steam turbine for biomass plant
·Efficiency and reliability proved by world leading experience are keys of
selection
·Accelerate steam turbine business in Japan
Siemens Japan K.K. received orders from Toyo Engineering Corporation for a
steam turbine and related products for a biomass power plant in Japan. The steam
turbine of 51.5 MW power output, turbine condenser, generator and turbine controls
have been ordered. The equipments will be installed at Obayashi Kamisu biomass
power plant in Kamisu city, Ibaraki prefecture, Japan. The commercial operation of
the project is planned for 2021. As Japanese government recently announced its
plan to shift renewable energy to be its main power supply, promotional measures
are undertaken to further accelerate the introduction and expansion of renewable
energy. High efficiencies of power generation allow for economical operation as well
as less environmental impact of the power plant.
Siemens offered a steam turbine, which is well recognized in the market  because of
its high efficiency. Siemens holds the position of a market leader in the global
industrial steam turbine industry and offers a comprehensive range of reliable and
versatile steam turbines for the power output range from 2 to 250 MW. Siemens
industrial steam turbines are designed for easy constructability, fast start-up and
economical operation. The extensive delivery and operation experience worldwide
proves the reliability of Siemens industrial steam turbine that contributes to acquire a
lot of users. High efficiency and the evaluation of extensive global experience were
the keys of the selection for the project.
Siemens AG
Communications
Head:  Clarissa HallerWerner-von-Siemens-Straße 1
80333 Munich
Germany
Siemens AG Press Release
Page 2/2“This is the significant order for Siemens industrial steam turbine business in Japan,”
said Kenichi Fujita, President and CEO, Siemens K.K. “We will continue to work
actively to provide highly efficient steam turbine to contribute to the customers’
benefits as well as the development of renewable and biomass energy power
generation in Japan.” Siemens will further enhance and accelerate steam turbine
sales in Japan with the order as leverage.
Contact for journalists
Masako Imamura
Phone: +81 33493 4204; E-mail: masako.imamura@siemens.com
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_press
Siemens Group in Japan
Since establishing our first office in Tokyo in 1887, we have been committed to being a trusted partner
to Japanese customers. We supply the best solutions to the mega trends of urbanization, demographic
change, climate change, globalization and digitalization. With our products, service and solutions,
we will continue to provide competitive advantages to our Japanese customers as well as to respond to
the environmental challenges. In 2017, total sales of Siemens in Japan amounted to 149.9 billion yen,
with a workforce of about 2,250. Further information is available on the Internet at
http://www.siemens.com/jp .