Seal Protect is a reliable and cost-effective sealing mechanism  
that enables operators to eliminate the need for a seal gas 
booster by protecting the dry gas seals from process gas contamination at slow speeds, or when the compressor has 
stopped in a pressurized standby condition.
Operators frequently identify the gas seal panel and booster 
compressor as some of the most failure-prone components in compressor packages. Seal Protect can be installed as a low-
cost alternative to conventional seal gas boosters, simplifying 
the system design and enhancing the overall reliability. It can be a valuable addition to any dry gas seal system in an oil and gas application by providing an added layer of protection against contamination, reducing the risk of downtime and 
associated expenses from maintenance and lost production.
The design provides added protectionThis unique sealing solution sits between the dry gas seal  
and process side seal.
Seal Protect is wide open during normal operation, so that it 
is not subjected to any wear from high velocity rotation. Here, the dry gas seal is protected from contamination by the flow under inner laby, as usual.
Under static conditions and low speed, Seal Protect is closed 
and prevents contamination of the dry gas seal from the 
inboard side.siemens-energy.comEliminate the  
need for seal gas 
boosters with our 
Seal Protect solution
Seal Protect can be installed on new compressor 
packages with dry gas seals; or it can be 
retrofitted into existing units, providing an 
upgrade option for added reliabilityUnfiltered process gas is blocked by Seal Protect and cannot 
enter the dry gas seal. Consequently, the dry gas seal is exclusively exposed to clean, dry process gas.
Seal Protect coupled with Siemens Energy dry gas seal 
system.
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transformation of Industry  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of furhter  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Benefits
•  Incr eased reliability versus reciprocating seal gas boosters 
- Simplifying the system by reducing the number of 
components and connections simplifying the system decreases the risk of leaks or failure and enhances the 
overall system reliability.
•  Reduced cos t – CAPEX is lower than centrifugal booster 
compressors (although costs vary depending on the 
application). OPEX is also reduced as Seal Protect does not require additional electrical power, or air consumption 
and needs less heating. The required maintenance is 
also considerably less compared to reciprocating seal gas boosters.
•  Reduced f ootprint - Often, the seal gas booster is 
incorporated within a pre-conditioning skid, separate from the gas seal panel. By installing Seal Protect, it may be possible to remove the skid, potentially minimizing the 
overall package footprint.
•  Lo wer emissions - Utilizing Seal Protect instead of an 
electric-driven booster compressor results in decreased 
power consumption and related emissions from the compressor package.
Seal Protect serves as a low-cost alternative to boosters and is compatible with most new compressor packages equipped with dry gas seals. Additionally, it can be retrofitted into existing units, providing an upgrade option for those seeking 
improved reliability.
Seal Protect sits between the dry gas seal and the process 
side seal. With the elimination of the booster, this new design 
enables lower emissions.