gascompressionmagazine.com | MAY  2023BY BRENT HAIGHT
Siemens Energy compressors will be used at Oc -
cidental’s first large-scale direct air capture (DAC) 
plant in Ector County, Texas. 1PointFive, a subsidiary 
of Occidental, is developing the project, located in the Permian Basin. The two compressor packages 
will enable the plant to capture up to 551,000  t ons 
(500,000  t onnes) of carbon dioxide (CO2) per year 
when fully operational. Detailed engineering and site construction began in Q3 2022. The plant is anticipat -
ed to complete commissioning and begin to capture carbon in late 2024. It will be commercially opera -
tional in mid-2025.
1PointFive partnered with Carbon Engineering to 
commercialize and deploy DAC technology at scale. DAC is a technology that removes CO
2 from the 
atmosphere to provide a practical decarbonization solution. Dozens of high-powered fans pull air into the facility, where it is absorbed into a chemical solu -
tion of potassium hydroxide and water, which bonds to the CO
2. This bonding happens as the potassium 
hydroxide flows across a highly engineered polyvinyl chloride (PVC) packing system designed to increase the surface area and amount of CO
2 captured.
Once the liquid solution reaches the unit’s outlet, 
the process of concentrating the captured CO2 begins. 
First, the solution is pumped into a piece of equipment called a pellet reactor. Calcium hydroxide is added, forming small pellets of calcium carbonate that hold the captured carbon. The pellet slurry is pumped into a centrifuge where the pellets are separated from the refreshed potassium hydroxide. The pellets are then dried while the potassium hydroxide liquid is filtered and recycled back to the air contactors to capture more CO
2. From the centrifuge, the calcium carbon -
ate pellets are moved to a calciner, where they are exposed to high temperatures and converted into cal -
cium oxide and CO
2. The captured CO2 is sent off to 
be compressed and either stored or used.The calcium oxide pellets are recycled back into the process. They 
are first sent to a slaker, where, mixed with water, calcium hydrox -
ide is formed to go back into the pellet reactor where it will be used again to create new calcium carbonate pellets. With the CO
2 cap-
tured, separated, purified, and compressed, it can be stored perma -
nently deep underground or used as a feedstock for new products such as cement, plastics, or low-carbon fuels.SIEMENS ENERGY 
COMPRESSORS FOR 
LARGE-SCALE 
DIRECT AIR 
CAPTURE PLANT 
Siemens Energy will supply two compressor packages to the direct air capture 
(DAC) plant.
Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 
13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compres -
sor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp 
(6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. The equipment will compress the captured CO
2 for additional 
processing and pressurize the final product into a pipeline for injection into underground reservoirs.
The compressors will be manufactured and tested at the 
Siemens Energy facility in Duisburg, Germany, and packaged and assembled in Houston. “The intent is to execute as much work as possible in the factory before shipping to the field to ensure a smooth installation and commissioning phase to support Occidental’s online date,” said Patrice Laporte, vice president of sales — Compression, Americas for Siemens En -
ergy. “The current design supports a shortened installation and commissioning duration for the compressors as compared to typical projects. Siemens Energy has been building integrally geared compressors for more than 50 years, so we have a wide range of experiences when it comes to different process con -
ditions and the required design considerations. While a facil -
ity of this scale is the first of its kind, CO
2 compression using 
these compressors is not. There are some unique features to this project, but the overall design considerations use proven technology that has been developed over years of experience.”
“Siemens Energy is proud to support Occidental in the 
first industrial-scale DAC project with our CO
2 compressor 
packages,” said Laporte. “Taking CO2 from the atmosphere 
to either sequester it or reinject it into a well to achieve negative emissions in an oil and gas process has never been so exciting.”The direct air capture (DAC) plant in Ector County, Texas, 
is anticipated to be commercially operational in mid-2025. 
Image Courtesy Of Carbon Engineering
Reprinted from the May 2023 issue of Gas Compression Magazine . 
www.gascompressionmagazine.com Copyright Third Coast Publishing Group.