May/June 2023 • Vol.64 • No.3
COMPRESSORS
The Next Generation of
Compressor Lube  
Oil SystemsCOMPONENTS & AUXILIARIES
Maximizing Hole Measuring  
with Bore GagesSHOW REPORT
WTUI 2023 Show Report: 
Innovations & TechnologiesCOMPRESSORS
How Settle-Out Pressure 
Impacts Compressors
CCUS  
Accelerates  
Net-Zero Goals
TurbomachineryMag.com
COVER STORY
Centrifugal compressors like this STC-GV 
can benefit from the further implementa -
tion of carbon-capture technology. Credit: 
Siemens Energy 
12  •  www.turbomachinerymag.com
Turbomachinery International  •  May/June 2023  •  13
‘Green  
New Era ’  
for Turbomachinery?
Carbon capture, utilization, and storage technologies  
are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals.
BY TIMOTHY LUKAC
CCarbon capture, utiliza -
tion, and storage 
(CCUS)—which aims to 
reduce carbon emissions while simultane -
ously contributing to the development of a 
circular carbon economy—is set to play a 
diverse role in meeting global climate 
goals. With green initiatives on the rise 
and regulatory bodies becoming more 
imposing on emitters, curtailing emis -
sions is now a top concern for carbon-pro -
ducing entities. To solve this problem, 
innovative solutions are entering the 
industry. Fueled by direct support from 
world leaders and governments, CCUS 
technologies are one pathway to achieving 
net-zero emissions. So, what role is the 
turbomachinery industry playing?HOW DOES TURBOMACHINERY 
PLAY A RO LE IN CC US? 
Carbon dioxide (CO 2) compression can be 
seen as a critical element in carbon-cap -
ture storage applications, which makes it 
an essential building block in the larger 
picture of global decarbonization. 
“Among compression methods, 
integrally geared centrifugal compressors 
are a preferred rotating hardware because 
of the special behavior of CO 2 and the 
challenging requirements of CO 2 applica -
tions,” said Ulrich Schmitz, Vice President 
Marketing at Atlas Copco Gas and Process.
CO 2, like other high mole-weight gases, 
increases its temperature during com -
pression, making the interstage cooling 
provided by integrally geared Siemens EnergyThe 
14  •  www.turbomachinerymag.comcompressors an energy-efficient and 
cost-effective characteristic, Schmitz 
explained. Turbomachinery plays an 
important role in CCUS processes, for 
example enabling the transportation of 
the gas by compressing it. Without this 
essential component, handling CO 2 in the 
long term would be much more difficult. 
Compressors also come into play later in 
the value chain with the creation of 
aftermarket products. Thus, compressors 
can be seen as the crux of carbon-capture 
value generation.
LARGE-SCALE ADOPTION 
Large-scale adoption is a challenge in both 
the United States and Europe. One way to 
increase adoption is through regulatory 
avenues. The United States passed the 
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), which 
includes $369 billion in green energy 
grants and subsidies to accelerate the 
reduction of carbon. In March, Europe 
proposed the Net-Zero Industry Act, 
which aims to establish a framework of 
measures for strengthening Europe’s 
development of net-zero technologies. 
Following the passage of the IRA, 
Aniruddha Sharma, Chair and CEO of 
Carbon Clean, a UK-based company focused 
on carbon capture solutions, said: “Carbon 
Clean has experienced a 64% leap in 
inquires, and we expect the United States to 
become one of our largest markets,” Sharma 
said. “In March, we announced a significant 
expansion in North America to meet this 
booming demand. [We opened] a U.S. 
headquarters in Houston and are currently 
developing a local supply chain.” 
Sharma said government support is 
needed to push CCUS at a significant scale, 
including policies to economically support 
these endeavors. This includes setting 
financial rewards, simplifying the 
permitting and planning process, 
ensuring storage sites are developed 
quickly, and putting a focus on regulation 
that supports the growth of CO 2 infra -
structure and equipment.The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), 
through the National Energy Technology 
Laboratory (NETL), is working on 
promoting and developing carbon capture 
and storage (CCS) technologies. In a recent 
panel at PowerGen 2023, representatives 
from the governmental body spoke on the 
role CCS plays in promoting 
carbon neutrality. COVER STORY
authors of Europe’s Net-Zero Industry Act: 
What does it mean for carbon capture and 
storage , “As CATF determined last year, 
Europe could face up to a 50% shortfall in 
storage capacity available to capture 
projects in 2030.” However, the Net-Zero 
Industry Act is creating better conditions 
and opportunities for clean-energy 
technologies in Europe. 
In the United States, according to 
the Congressional Research 
Service, the DOE estimates the 
country’s total storage capacity to 
range between about 2.6 trillion 
and 22 trillion metric tons of CO 2.
Jose Figueroa, Carbon Capture Team 
Supervisor at NETL, informed attendees 
about the capture technologies his 
department is helping developing, such as 
direct air capture. He said that technolo -
gies such as CCS and collaboration across 
different sectors—government, academia, 
industry, and research organizations—
will help support the goal of achieving net 
zero by 2050 seem more attainable. 
STORING CO 2
Currently, geological storage is the most 
mature technological option for storing 
CO 2 and offers significant capacity for 
sequestering CO 2. According to the DOE, 
CO 2 storage in geologic formations includes 
oil and gas reservoirs, unmineable coal 
seams, and deep saline reservoirs. 
However, the Clean Air Task Force 
(CATF) said among the carbon capture, 
transport, and storage value chain, 
storage is the key bottleneck impeding the 
development of carbon capture and 
storage in Europe. According to the In the United States, according to the 
Congressional Research Service, the DOE 
estimates the country’s total storage 
capacity to range between about 2.6 tril -
lion and 22 trillion metric tons of CO 2.
Dr. Marcus Brücher, Senior Vice 
President of Compression at Siemens 
Energy, said the company is focusing on 
storage rather than utilization. “The 
amount of CO 2 produced from one large 
power plant is more than the entire 
beverage industry could consume per 
year,” Dr. Brücher said. “This example 
furthers the assertation that the viability 
of such products has yet to find a clear 
pathway when stress testing a business 
plan from a financial perspective. 
Theoretically and scientifically, many 
products are achievable; storage of CO 2 
can provide source points later when 
economics and financial returns are more 
favorable for products derived from CO 2.”
The “store-for-later” idea runs in 
tandem with what has been seen in the past 
with enhanced oil recovery (EOR) 
Turbomachinery International  •  May/June 2023  •  15production, which, according to an article 
published in Reservoir Engineering , are 
processes that are “implemented to 
increase the ability of oil to flow to a well by 
injecting water, chemicals, or gases [such 
as CO 2] into the reservoir or by changing 
the physical properties of the oil.”
Daniela Abate, Vice President of CCUS 
at Baker Hughes, explained that CO 2-EOR 
has demonstrated its effectiveness, 
particularly in the United States where it 
has been adopted in several projects. 
According to the CCS Institute’s Global 
Status of CCS 2022 report, 11 out of 13 
operating CCS projects in the United 
States are based on EOR.
CARBON CAPTURE 
The type of carbon-capture technology 
employed is what determines the role that 
turbomachinery plays. “Its role becomes 
critical for membrane-based, cryogenic, 
and hot potassium carbonate-based 
capture technologies, since they are 
operated with gas streams at medium/
high pressures,” Abate said.  
According to Office of Scientific and 
Technical Information, membrane-based 
capture uses semi-permeable membranes 
to separate CO 2 from a gas stream. 
Cryogenic capture cools the gas stream to 
very low temperatures (around -100°C or 
lower) to distinguish the CO 2 from other 
gases. Hot potassium capture uses a hot 
potassium carbonate solution to absorb 
CO 2 from a gas stream. 
Further considerations when deter -
mining which turbomachinery to use 
include “whether it is a retrofit project 
with limited available space and whether 
the site already has sufficient energy to 
run compression or if a new power 
generation unit will be needed,” 
Abate said. 
In these installations, operating 
profiles are often challenging to manage 
(largely due to turndown), which can lead 
to the need for parallel units. However, 
these obstacles create opportunities, such as developing modular solutions to 
address plot availability issues and 
creating more efficient machinery 
equipped with energy-recovery solutions. 
Managing the operating profile is 
directly tied into the efficiency, reliability, 
and overall performance of both car -
bon-capture systems and the associated 
power generation or industrial process 
equipment. Here, it’s important to 
compensate for load fluctuations through 
advanced control strategies or the use of 
variable speed drives.  
Further, beyond turbomachinery 
considerations, the CO 2 capture method 
must also be determined. CCUS technol -
ogies can remove CO 2 a few ways, 
including pre-combustion and 
post-combustion methods. 
“Pre-combustion capture has high 
efficiency, and the increased CO 2 concen -
tration in the syngas significantly enhances 
absorption efficiency,” Dr. Brücher said. 
“However, the overall capital cost of the 
base gasification process is high.” 
He said it comes down to evaluating 
which technology is fit for a specific 
application based on the management of 
the mass from the emitting and capture 
device. The capital cost can be attributed 
to the complexity of the process, the need 
for specialized equipment, the high 
operating temperatures and pressures 
found, and the challenges associated with 
feedstock handling and gas cleanup.
One advantage of post-combustion 
carbon-capture technology—such as 
absorption, adsorption, and membranes—
is its maturity compared to other 
carbon-capture alternatives.
“It’s viable to retrofit the technology 
into new and existing plants,” Dr. 
Brücher said. 
The downside of post-combustion 
carbon capture is that it has a low 
carbon-capture efficiency due to low CO 2 
concentration in the flue gas, as well as 
large parasitic loads of thermal and 
electrical duties.  
 
Remote Monitoring S ervice   
 
❖ Vibration  
❖ Performance  
 
✓ Compressors  
✓ Pumps  
✓ Steam Turbines  
✓ Gas Turbines  
 
 
 
Turbomachinery Engineers  
 
sales@flexwareinc.com  
 www.flexwareinc.com  
 
 
Flexware  However, Abate said that “Once the 
CO 2-rich flue gas has been compressed and 
has the CO 2 removed, the CO 2-lean flue gas 
stream (which typically accounts for more 
than 80% of the flue gas volume initially 
compressed) can be expanded to recover 
energy, which can partially offset the 
energy required by the CO 2-rich flue gas 
compression step.” 
As an example, energy recovery devices, 
such as turbo-expanders or gas expansion 
turbines, can convert the pressure energy of 
the aforementioned gas into useful work, 
such as electricity generation. This 
recovered energy can then be used to power 
the compression process or other parts of 
the carbon-capture system.
Dr. Brücher concluded: “There is no 
‘one-size-fits-all’ in these technologies. 
Each has its own strengths and weak -
nesses that must be considered. Siemens 
Energy is developing strategies in each 
technology area to design and provide 
16  •  www.turbomachinerymag.com
FIGURE 1: Flue2Chem general methodology for converting CO 2 into value-added products. Credit: Society of Chemical Industry
products that contribute efficiency gains 
to each carbon-capture technology.”
OVERCOMING INEFFIENCIES AND 
INDUSTRY COLLABORATIONS
Implementing carbon-capture tools can 
impact the overall efficiency of turboma -
chinery. There’s also further value that 
can be extracted from the process.
“CO 2 capture requires both heat and 
power, and CO 2 compression requires 
power which, if supplied directly by the 
power plant, will reduce its overall 
efficiency,” Sharma said.
Some ways of mitigating this ineffi -
ciency include using solvents such as 
CDRMax, which reduce the amount of 
heat required for CO 2 capture. “If the 
captured CO 2 is being used in a down -
stream process, e.g., methanol or other 
fuel/chemical products, there are 
opportunities to integrate with the CO 2 
capture plant to meet a large portion of its 
heat requirement,” he said. 
Another way the CO 2 can be used in the 
downstream process is through collabora -
tions such as the Flue2Chem project 
(FIGURE 1 ). Carbon Clean is collaborating 
with 14 other organizations, including COVER STORY
BASF, Proctor & Gamble, and Unliever, on 
the Flue2Chem project in the UK: a 
two-year project that aims to convert 
industrial waste gases to more sustainable 
consumer products. The project could 
result in a saving of 15-20 million tons of 
CO 2 emissions a year in the UK. As part of 
the project, Carbon Clean’s CycloneCC 
carbon-capture technology will capture 
10 tons per day of CO 2 from three 
industrial sites.
“Collaboration among OEM; CCS 
technology provider; engineering, 
procurement, and construction (EPC); and  
end users to maximize process efficiency 
is essential to the success of carbon-cap -
ture projects,” Dr. Brücher said. “OEMs 
can provide performance finesse by 
leveraging machine design details which 
are then tightly aligned to 
process performance.” 
All parties can bring unique expertise 
and capabilities to the table, and their 
collaboration could lead to innovations, 
optimized designs, reduced costs, and 
more efficient implementation of 
these technologies. 
Efficiency here is created at the 
machine level, which means reviewing the continuity of that efficiency at the 
carbon-capture level and then confirming 
that efficiency at the global facility level. 
Dr. Brücher calls it a “create-review-con -
firm” approach, which can help keep carbon 
emissions at the lowest GJ/ton possible.
To further emphasize the importance 
of collaboration, Abate said how partnering 
with project developers from an OEM 
perspective, including CO 2 transport 
infrastructure developers, will help in 
defining a cost-effective solution. Baker 
Hughes was recently awarded a contract 
with Malaysia Marine and Heavy 
Engineering to supply CO 2 compression 
equipment to PETRONAS’s Kasawari 
offshore CCS project in Sarawak, Malaysia.
“The project is expected to be [one of] 
the largest offshore CCS facilities, with a 
capacity to reduce CO emissions by 
3.3 metric tons per annum,” she said.
This case shows the benefits of 
supporting projects in the CCUS space via 
collaboration. While the industry can reap 
the rewards associated with regulatory 
compliance, it also demonstrates its 
capability of promoting market and 
technological growth. 