
The success of the energy transition hinges on creating  
sustainable, reliable and affordable energy supply for 
all. Achieving this will require a diverse and balanced 
energy ecosystem with contributions from both 
natural gas and renewables. Hydrogen will also play a critical 
role in opening up new decarbonisation pathways, particularly 
for industries that have been deemed hard-to-abate.
As the world’s largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for 
renewable energy, Australia is in a good position to become a global leader in the clean hydrogen market. In 2021, 29% of the country’s total electricity generation was from 
renewable energy sources, including solar (12%), wind (10%) 
and hydropower (6%).
1 More than 80 GWe of green hydrogen 
production projects have already been announced in the 
country. 2 Initiatives to increase blue hydrogen capacity via coal 
regasification and steam methane reforming of natural gas, in combination with carbon capture, are also gaining traction. While continued production growth will be key to 
establishing a robust hydrogen economy in Australia, a reliable 
and efficient transport network is also needed to enable widespread domestic use, and for exporting hydrogen to 
demand centres in Asia-Pacific and other regions of the globe. 
Among all modes of transport, pipelines remain the most 
efficient option for moving large volumes of hydrogen. Several thousand kilometres of pure hydrogen pipelines are 
in operation across the globe today. Given the high cost and regulatory hurdles associated with building these pipelines, 
many stakeholders across both public and private industry 
have begun asking whether it is possible to use existing natural gas infrastructure to move hydrogen. 
This article will provide answers to these questions by 
discussing what (if any) modifications are required to prepare legacy compression stations for partial or even 100% hydrogen 
operation. Brian Mason and Chirag Sehgal, Siemens Energy, discuss how 
Australia is preparing for the hydrogen economy by way of 
retrofitting existing compression and transportation infrastructure.
Reprinted from Spring 2023 GlobalHydrogenReview.comT ransporting hydrogen vs natural gas
Although the calorific value (CV) of natural gas is roughly 
three times higher than that of hydrogen, the energy transport 
density of identical pipelines carrying the two would be 
relatively similar. This is largely due to the much lower density of hydrogen, which allows for higher velocity and flow rates. 
In long-distance transmission lines, which typically operate at 
high pressures, energy flow with high contents of hydrogen hardly decreases in comparison to pure natural gas operation.
While blending hydrogen with natural gas does not 
materially affect the amount of energy that can be transported through the pipeline, it does have implications when it comes 
to compressibility – particularly when using centrifugal 
(i.e. turbo) compressors, which utilise high-speed impellers to convert rotational/kinetic energy into pressure.
The gas kinetic energy is a direct function of its velocity and 
molecular weight. Hydrogen’s molecular weight is roughly 1/8
th of that of natural gas, which means a higher velocity 
is required to achieve the same pressure. This can be done 
in one of two ways. The first is by increasing impeller tip 
speed and/or expanding the diameter of the impeller. The 
limiting factor here is the mechanical strength limits of the 
impeller materials. The second is by incorporating additional 
compressor stages, which increases the overall footprint and cost of the package.
Significant advancements by original equipment 
manufacturers (OEMs) have been made in recent years, which have enabled turbocompressors to better handle hydrogen. 
Siemens Energy’s STC-SVm platform, for example, is specifically 
designed for high rotational speeds and allows for a smaller and lighter compressor unit with fewer stages than legacy 
machines in hydrogen service. 
Many existing turbocompressors in pipeline applications 
today can be operated with a low content of hydrogen in the gas stream. However, as the percentage of hydrogen by 
volume increases, modifications to the machine are necessary to ensure safe and efficient operation. 
Typically, for admixtures with less than 10% hydrogen 
by volume, no major changes to compressor hardware are required. The compressor housing can often be 
maintained, with up to 40% hydrogen content. However, 
modifications/adjustments to impellers, feedback stages, and gears are likely needed. For pipelines with greater than 40% 
hydrogen content, replacement of the compressor is the most 
practical solution.
3
Reciprocating compressors
Unlike turbocompressors, reciprocating compressors work on the principle of positive displacement. As a result, the 
low molecular weight of hydrogen does not compromise 
compression efficiency. This typically makes them a more practical option for hydrogen service in many applications, 
including pipelines and electrolysis plants, which often 
operate at partial loads. Siemens Energy currently has more than 2 million hp of reciprocating compression installed 
in hydrogen-rich services, including tail gas, feed gas, and 
make-up services, as well as pipeline and storage.  
Achieving a pressure ratio of 4:1 in a pure hydrogen 
application can typically be accomplished with a reciprocating compressor in just two stages. In pipelines, transport capacities of as high as 750 000 Nm³ /hr can be achieved by 
increasing drive power and operating units in parallel.
4 
Hydrogen’s smaller molecular size relative to natural gas 
does mean that certain modifications to seals may be required 
to minimise internal and external leakages. Other design areas that require attention include compressor valves, lubrication, 
and capacity control. In many cases, these modifications can 
be made without replacing the entire compressor.  
New compressor installs
For new hydrogen compression applications, the optimal compressor choice will ultimately be dictated by several 
variables, including the facility’s footprint, CAPEX, OPEX, 
availability/reliability, turndown requirements, etc. 
Both reciprocating and turbocompressors can handle 
a broad range of operating scenarios, with the choice of technology based on economic trade-offs and the specific requirements of the pipeline, including required flow rates, 
pressure ratios, use of dry or wet sealing, and the percentage 
of hydrogen in the admixture. 
While the specific production method (e.g. electrolysis, 
steam methane or auto-thermal reforming, coal regasification, etc.) is irrelevant – as compressors do not see ‘colour’ – there are several key characteristics of the 
hydrogen that must be considered, such as gas composition, 
water content, wet vs dry flow, suction pressure, gas temperature, lube-oil carryover, etc.
5
Figure 1. Pressure curve when transporting methane and 
hydrogen with the same energy content in a 100 km long high-pressure pipeline with a diameter of 1000 mm.
Figure 2. Siemens Energy’s STC-SVm turbocompressor platform.
Reprinted from Spring 2023 GlobalHydrogenReview.com
For end users, failure to specify these values to OEMs early 
in the design process can result in a number of undesirable 
outcomes, including higher costs, reduced performance, and 
higher power consumption. 
Compressor drivers
Blending hydrogen with natural gas will also necessitate modifications to compressor drivers (in some cases). Many 
compression stations across Australia are in highly-remote 
regions and thus rely on burning pipeline gas for drive power. Turbocompressor trains typically use gas turbines as mechanical 
drives or occasionally to drive generators for onsite electricity 
production. 
Under adiabatic and stoichiometric conditions, the flame 
temperature of hydrogen is more than 300˚C higher than natural gas. Laminar flow speed is also higher for certain flame temperatures. This introduces unique challenges when it comes 
to combustion system dynamics and subsequently achieving 
acceptable emissions levels from the turbine. 
In recent years, OEMs have made a great deal of progress 
in adapting gas turbines for hydrogen. Siemens Energy, for example, currently has more than 55 hydrogen gas turbines installed around the world, which have amassed 
> 2.5 million hours of operating experience. The company has 
established an ambitious goal of making all turbine models 100% compatible with hydrogen by 2030.
Today, units of varying sizes and combustion system types 
(e.g. unabated diffusion flame, wet low emissions [WLE], dry low emissions [DLE]) can reliably handle fuel admixtures with 
high contents of hydrogen. As is the case with compressors, 
the decision to modify an existing gas turbine or replace it will depend on several factors, including the hydrogen content in the 
admixture, the age of the unit, required drive power, objectives 
of the operator, etc.Looking ahead
In the coming years, as production of green hydrogen in Australia increases, so too will the need for dedicated pipelines 
that can efficiently transport hydrogen from electrolysis plants 
to processing facilities (e.g. e-ammonia or e-methanol plants) and export terminals. Much of the demand in the near-term 
will be for short-distance, pure hydrogen lines. However, 
establishing a robust hydrogen economy over the coming decades will necessitate leveraging the country’s 39 000+ km of 
existing natural gas infrastructure. 
While further research and development work on the part 
of OEMs will be required in order to optimise equipment for hydrogen, the challenges of hydrogen transport can largely be 
addressed using today’s technology. The key moving forward will be to establish a clear regulatory framework so that operators 
can plan and make investments accordingly. 
References
1. Australian Government Department of Climate Change Energy, the 
Environment and Water, https://www.energy.gov.au/data/renewables
2. ‘Tracking Australia’s progress on becoming a global supplier of clean hydrogen’, S&P Global, (20 April 2022), https://www.spglobal.com/commodityinsights/en/ci/research-analysis/tracking-australias-progress-global-supplier-clean-hydrogen.html 
3. ADAM, P ., ‘Opportunities and Challenges in Converting Existing 
Natural Gas Infrastructure for Hydrogen Operation’, paper presented 
at the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition & Conference, 
Abu Dhabi, UAE, (November 2021), https://doi.org/10.2118/208033-
MS
4. ADAM, P ., HEUNEMANN, F., VON DEM BUSSCHE, C., ENGELSHOVE, S., 
and THIEMANN, T., ‘Hydrogen infrastructure – the pillar of energy transition. The practical conversion of long-distance gas networks to hydrogen operation’, Siemens Energy, https://assets.siemens-energy.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:3d4339dc-434e-4692-81a0-a55adbcaa92e/200915-whitepaper-h2-infrastructure-en.pdf
5. ABLONDI, T., and BARTON, M., ‘Compressors are hydrogen 
‘colour blind’’, CompressorTech2, (11 August 2022), https://www.
compressortech2.com/news/compressors-are-hydrogen-colour-
blind-/8022620.article
Figure 3. Hydrogen-burning capabilities across Siemens Energy’s gas turbine portfolio.