gascompressionmagazine.com | MARCH  2023BY MEGAN SCHAENZER AND AXEL SPANEL
Historically, axial compressors have been the tech -
nology of choice for meeting high-flow require -
ments in blast furnace blower (BFB), fluid catalytic 
cracking (FCC), and propane dehydrogenation (PDH) 
applications. Axial compressors offer high efficiency 
and predictable performance. However, these com -
pressors come with trade-offs, including a large foot -
print, long lead times, frequent maintenance, and a sub -
stantial risk for blade damage at surge conditions.
Based on proven integrally geared compressor tech -
nology, single-stage overhung compressors (SOCs) 
have emerged as a reliable alternative to axial compres -
sors. Siemens Energy currently offers an SOC that can 
achieve pressure ratios of 2.5 or higher in a single stage 
and up to six in tandem design. 
Tandem arrangement features two SOCs connected 
on opposite ends of a double-ended steam turbine 
driver (with or without interstage cooling). The non-
cooled variation is particularly well suited for BFB and 
FCC processes, because the higher discharge temper -
ature reduces heating duties for the blast furnace or 
regenerator, leading to lower energy consumption and 
higher plant efficiency.
AXIAL VS. OVERHUNG IMPELLER COMPRESSORS
Operators often cite intensive maintenance as one of 
the biggest drawbacks of axial compressors. The com -
plexity of these machines and the high number of intri -
cate parts largely attribute to this drawback. A single 
axial compressor can contain as many as 400 blades, 
making routine inspections cumbersome. The need to 
remove cones for bearing and/or seal exchange, along 
with the requirement for heavy lifting equipment when 
servicing the rotor, also contribute to increased oper -
ating expenses (OPEX).
Because these high-flow applications also need to 
meet pressure requirements, several compressor 
stages are necessary, and the footprint of the train be -
comes very large. For example, in BFB applications, 10 
or more stages may be required. The increased foot -
print and compressor stages also contribute to a higher 
capital expenditure (CAPEX) and longer lead time.
Historically, SOCs have not been a viable alternative 
to axial compressors. This has changed in recent years 
because design enhancements have enabled these ma -
chines to achieve comparable flow rates and pressure 
ratios to axial machines in fewer stages. Figure 1. Single-Stage Overhung Siemens STC-GV
An SOC is made up of one compressor stage fixed to the end of a 
high-speed shaft. The shaft is mounted in a housing that contains the 
bearings and is directly connected to the driver.
For any project, an optimal combination of shaft speed and impeller 
size can be specified to meet the unique requirements of the applica -
tion. The overhung impellers can be fitted with adjustable inlet guide 
vanes (IGVs) to manage turndown while maintaining high efficiency. 
Combining these features allows for high-volume flows and energy ef -
ficiency (even under partial loads). It also results in a compact footprint. OLD TECHNOLOGY, 
NEW APPLICATION
ADAPTING INTEGRALLY GEARED COMPRESSORS FOR HIGH-TEMPERATURE APPLICATIONS
Figure 2. Single-Stage Overhung Compressor Train (Bottom) Vs. Axial Com -
pressor Train (Top)
Other notable advantages of SOCs include:
• CAPEX – The cost of an SOC can be as low as one-third 
of an axial compressor with similar performance characteristics. 
Fewer components also mean end users can reduce spare part 
inventories and associated costs. With Siemens Energy’s STC-
GV SOC, which is based on the proven integrally geared com -
pressor design, more than 90% of parts are standardized (e.g., 
volute, low-solidity diffuser, IGV, contour ring, etc.) 
• OPEX/Maintenance – Fewer stages and a simpler design 
contribute to lower maintenance requirements for SOCs. Oil 
consumption is also reduced by 25% when compared to axial 
machines. The requirement for jacking oil is eliminated entirely. 
The simplified design makes maintenance tasks easier to carry 
out. Bearings on the STC-GV can be inspected without lifting the 
upper half of the compressor. The overall maintenance weight of 
the unit (i.e., the weight of parts that require lifting) is also 80% 
lower. Including a base frame, the entire compressor assembly 
can be moved with a single lift. 
Figure 3. Single-stage overhung compressor and base frame can be 
moved using a single lift.
• Flexibility – The STC-GV SOC was designed with an adjust -
able volute position for increased installation flexibility. A steam 
turbine, gas turbine, or electric motor can drive the compressor, 
without any modifications to the compressor design, because of 
its modular design. For example, if the steam supply at the facil -
ity decreases over time, the steam turbine can be removed and 
replaced with a motor and intermediate gearbox. In such cases, 
the compressor itself can remain in place with no design changes.
• Lead Time – Typical lead time for an SOC is approximately 
25% to 30% shorter than an axial compressor. 
NON-INTERCOOLED VARIATION
While SOCs are gaining traction as an alternative to axial com -
pressors, previous overhung models were designed to minimize 
compressor power requirements. In practice, this meant an in -
terstage cooler was included between the two stages of the tan -
dem design. However, in FCC and BFB applications, intercooling 
is disadvantageous because more energy input is required in the 
furnace or regenerator to reach the required temperatures, which 
means lower process efficiency and a higher carbon footprint. 
To address this issue, Siemens Energy has released a version of 
its single-stage overhung design in tandem arrangement with no 
interstage cooling (Figure 4). The variation uses the same com -
ponents as the cooled tandem design, including the same shaft 
and internal components, but it incorporates several innovative 
features to accommodate thermal effects of the high-tempera -
ture gas entering the 2nd stage. Figure 4. Tandem Single-Stage Overhung Compressor Design With 
Single-Stage Overhung Impellers On Each End Of The Steam Turbine
The key to the robust thermal isolation design is a three-
point support system that allows for thermal expansion with -
out generating high stresses or loss of alignment in the rotor. 
This contrasts the intercooled design, which features a volute 
that is rigidly bolted to the rotor casing through a half-circle 
flange. The half-circle flange bolting is possible because the 
intercooler keeps the temperature difference between the 
components low. With the three-point support, the rigid con -
nection is eliminated, and higher temperature discrepancies are 
easily managed. 
The volute itself is very similar to the intercooled design but 
uses G20MN5 (is a commonly used cast alloy steel for pres -
sure casings within industrial applications) as the casing mate -
rial because of its high strength at elevated temperatures and 
relatively high thermal conductivity when compared to other 
cast alloy steels. The thermal conductivity of G20MN5 allows 
the volute to quickly reach a thermal “steady-state” condition 
(i.e., temperature uniformity) during operation.
These features (and others) result in a robust design with 
discharge temperatures as high as 626°F (330°C) and achiev -
able discharge pressures up to 87 psi (6 bar). 
MAKING THE RIGHT CHOICE
Axial compressors continue to serve as a reliable and ef -
ficient option for compression in high-flow process applica -
tions. However, advancements in SOCs have made them a vi -
able, and in many cases, more economical alternative — with 
fewer maintenance requirements, shorter lead times, and 
lower CAPEX requirements.
Although some operators may view SOCs as a novel solution, 
these machines are based on well-established integrally geared 
compressor technology and have accumulated millions of hours 
of uninterrupted service in a broad range of industrial applica -
tions. Siemens Energy developed the first integrally geared com -
pressor in 1948. In total, the company has more than 2300 in -
tegrally geared units in operation worldwide, many of which are 
used in applications with flows exceeding 500,000 m3/hour.
The non-intercooled tandem SOC builds on the same de -
sign of past models, but with select features that ensure high 
performance and reliability when handling high-temperature 
gases. With these modifications, the compressor can meet 
standard customer requirements in FCC and BFB applications 
and, at the very minimum, should be evaluated as an alterna -
tive to axial compressors during compressor selection.
Reprinted from the March 2023 issue of Gas Compression Magazine . 
www.gascompressionmagazine.com Copyright Third Coast Publishing Group.