siemens-energy.comHydrogen compression –  
An integral part of the  
H2 value chain
   
Page
03	 1. Introduction:  
An element full of energy   
05	 2. The Ecosystem:  
An interlocking value chain
08	 3. Compression:  
A crucial technology
12	 4. The Future:  
Balance requires diversity
Authors
Peter Adam 
Siemens Energy,  Germany
Mark Barton 
Siemens Energy,  United States
Keiren Lake  
Siemens Energy,  
United Kingdom
Michael Schulz 
Siemens Energy,  
Germany 
Co-authors
José L. Gilarranz 
Siemens Energy,  United States
Thomas Soulas 
Siemens Energy,  United States
Page 2 © 2021 Siemens Energy
With increasing frequency, we are witnessing more 
dramatic weather extremes, as temperature records are 
broken year after year. Meanwhile, larger and more destruc-tive storms, floods, droughts, wildfires, and hurricanes touch nearly every corner of the globe. 
At the same time, greenhouse gas emissions
1) continue to 
rise – approaching 2018 and 2019 peaks in 2021 – with an 
increase of nearly 5% while ever-higher atmospheric CO2 
concentrations are being recorded with concentrations 
exceeding 410 ppm for the first time in 20192).
Against this backdrop, governments are taking increasingly 
clear action to meet their commitments made as part of the 2015 Paris Agreement to help limit global warming.  
This includes the December 2020 agreement among EU 
countries to cut net carbon emissions by 55 percent over 
the next decade. The details of this agreement demonstrate how most areas of economic activity will be impacted by 
the steps taken to achieve the Paris climate goals.
That is to be expected, given that a diverse range of sectors 
collectively account for more than three-quarters of global CO
2 emissions4). More specifically, power generation and 
heating contribute 30.4 percent, transportation contributes 
15.9 percent, manufacturing and construction add 12.4 
percent, agriculture produces 11.8 percent, and industrial 1. Introduction: An element full of energy
20253035
1990 2000 2010 2020 tGtCO22021 Total: 
330 GT CO2
Figure 1: Global energy-related CO2 emissions, 1990-20213)
Figure 2: Five ways to reach the Paris climate target
Page 3 © 2021 Siemens Energy
H2Help decarbonize 
transportation
Help decarbonize industrial energy 
use
Help decarbonize 
building heat and power
Serve as renewable 
feedstock
Enable large-scale renewables integration and power generationDistribute energy acrosssectors and regions
Act as a buffer to increasesystem resilience
processes emits 5.6 percent5). Making a difference will require 
significant emission reductions across all these sectors.
That’s why hydrogen – the most common element in the 
universe6) – is such a focus of interest. It can support decar -
bonization in every one of these sectors. At the heart of 
hydrogen’s appeal are three factors:
• This element and its role in decarbonization are not theo-
retical or ‘under development’. They are well known, well 
understood, and widely used. Hydrogen has played a role 
in many industrial processes and industries for decades. We know how to safely use, store, and transport it, and we 
do this today with commercially available technologies.
• Existing proven technologies can produce hydrogen in 
several ways – some without releasing CO
2 into the 
atmosphere.
• Due to its versatility, hydrogen can play a variety of roles, including as an energy carrier for power generation and transportation, and as feedstock for industry, agricul-ture, and synfuels.
In addition, the market for hydrogen will grow dramatically as the energy transition is inevitable and the need for decarbonization becomes more urgent. From approximately 
75 Mtpa today, market demand is expected to rise up to ten 
times to 750 Mtpa 2050
7). Nearly all of today’s output is 
utilized to produce ammonia and other chemicals for indus-try and fertilizer, and for refining. By 2050, the largest 
shares will be used as a transportation fuel, as fuel for 
industrial energy, for building heat and power, for power generation, and for new and existing feedstock
8).
The way we produce hydrogen also will dramatically 
change as we move along the decarbonization pathway. 
Currently, most hydrogen is produced from fossil fuels in Figure 3: Hydrogen can play different roles in the energy transition and is therefore an important lever for decarbonization9)
processes that emit ~ 10 ton of CO2 per ton of hydrogen 
produced. However, two proven technologies for generat-ing lower-CO
2 emissions during hydrogen production are 
ripe for further advancement:
• Green hydrogen is produced without generating any CO2 
by using electricity from renewable energy sources to 
power the electrolysis of water, which results in hydrogen and oxygen. This is a key long-term source of clean hydro-gen. In an electrolysis process 8 tons of Oxygen is produced 
to make one ton of hydrogen. This Oxygen will probably be 
used in future as well e.g. in Oxyfuel processes.
• Hydrogen also can be produced from natural gas, with the resulting CO
2 captured and stored so it does not end 
up in the environment. This will be used as an intermedi-
ate technology for the next decades to accelerate the 
transition to a green hydrogen energy system long-term.
A third zero-emission technology – using clean-ener -
gy-powered pyrolysis to ‘crack’ natural gas into solid carbon 
and hydrogen – is still in the development stage but offers 
great potential.
As economies decarbonize and companies look for ways to 
lower the climate impact of their processes, hydrogen offers a tremendous opportunity. With proven technologies set to become even more efficient, accompanied by addi-
tional benefits through sector coupling, hydrogen can help 
companies, industries and economies achieve both commercial and environmental goals.
To make this possible, organizations require a partner with 
decades of experience across the entire hydrogen value 
chain. Siemens Energy brings a unique constellation of technologies and expertise to help business, industry, and 
society make the most of the hydrogen revolution at all 
stages – today, tomorrow, and in the long term.
Page 4 © 2021 Siemens Energy
A process with many components
While the possibilities for hydrogen are enormous, 
unlocking this opportunity is only possible when all the 
pieces of a fully integrated value chain are put in place.  
A successful hydrogen project requires a supportive and 
carefully designed regulatory environment, sufficient renewable energy supply, the right hydrogen-production technologies, suitable transport and storage infrastructure, 
and end users for the clean hydrogen. What’s more, at 
every step in this value chain, it’s essential that operations are as efficient as possible – both in terms of cost and in 
terms of minimizing impact on the environment.  
Location, location, location
Location is a top priority for making any hydrogen project 
succeed. This includes placing electrolyzers close to the source of clean energy, whether adjacent to wind farms 
and PV plants, or even built into offshore wind turbine 
platforms. A minimization of the distance between the energy source and the hydrogen production will bring about a significant cost advantage. 
That said, efficiency in the system is further improved when 
hydrogen production and offtake are located near each other. That’s already how it is done with today’s conven-
tional hydrogen production. Around the world, there are 
nearly 9,000 kilometers of hydrogen pipeline, some as long as a couple of hundred kilometers linking production to 
consumption. As a result, the technology for hydrogen 
transport and storage is well understood and well devel-oped. This includes the technology to store hydrogen in large underground formations, such as salt caverns.
End users for clean hydrogen can include ammonia and 
methanol producers that currently use conventional 
hydrogen as an input. By switching to clean hydrogen, they can shrink their carbon footprint. Likewise, steel manufac-turers and other high-temperature process industries can use clean hydrogen fuel to significantly lower their emis-
sions, especially since high-temperature processes can’t be 
electrified easily.
Industrial processes also can transform hydrogen into 
transport fuel for fields such as aviation, shipping, long-  
distance rail, and heavy trucks.
Another major end user group that can benefit from being 
located near to clean hydrogen production facilities are 
gas-fired power plants that today can run on a fuel blend that includes a small amount of hydrogen.  2. The Ecosystem: An interlocking value chain
Figure 4: Hydrogen value chain
Page 5 © 2021 Siemens Energy
With modifications, these plants ultimately will be able to 
run on 100 percent hydrogen. 
Ensuring accessibility to transport infrastructure is also 
important. This includes existing hydrogen pipelines, but also natural gas infrastructure, which can accommodate small amounts of hydrogen blended into the gas stream.
In the future, existing natural gas pipeline networks and 
storage facilities will require modifications, including the 
deployment of high-efficiency turbocompressors, to transi-
tion to fully decarbonized hydrogen. Even so, the cost of retrofitting existing infrastructure would be only 10 percent to 15 percent of the cost of building new pipelines and storage tanks.
In the long term, consideration will be given to locating 
hydrogen production facilities in areas with direct access to ports for easy export internationally. Countries like Australia 
and Saudi Arabia are planning for a future where hydrogen 
is exported in a similar way as oil is today.Figure 5: Side by side – a functioning hydrogen landscape
The economics
As has happened with other technologies at the heart of a decarbonized future – such as solar photovoltaic (PV) and wind power – costs across the hydrogen value chain are 
expected to fall rapidly in coming years. Today, most clean 
hydrogen systems are not commercially viable, except with government intervention in areas such as subsidies, mandates around the use of clean hydrogen, or emission 
reduction requirements.
BloombergNEF predicts that by 2030, hydrogen produced 
from renewable energy will be cheaper than conventionally 
produced hydrogen in 16 of the 28 countries it modeled
10).
One short and midterm challenge is the very large electrical 
energy demand of electrolysis systems (55 MWh /ton of H2). 
The required electrical energy demand to allow large scale 
hydrogen production with electrolysis competes with all the 
other users of renewable electricity and to build up the 
required gigantic capacities requires time and funding.
Green hydrogen production will be supported by the 
continued fall in renewable energy prices, improvements in 
electrolyzer costs and technologies, gas compression systems advances, and other efficiencies of scale. Today, it is not economical to use renewable energy to produce 
hydrogen and then use that hydrogen to fuel gas turbine 
power plants. In the future, this is expected to provide an effective way to deliver zero-carbon dispatchable electricity to balance the intermittency of renewable power sources.
Page 6 © 2021 Siemens Energy
Figure 6: The H2 economy is a systems play - an interaction of different technologies, solutions and stakeholders (excerpt of the hydrogen value chain)
As an experienced technology provider along the entire 
hydrogen value chain, Siemens Energy understands the role of future technologies as one aspect in building an efficient 
hydrogen system. For example, Siemens Energy develops 
and provides both upstream hydrogen technologies such as wind turbines and polymer electrolyte membrane (PEM) electrolyzers, as well as two critical downstream technolo-
gies – compressors that will be key to the efficient transpor -
tation and storage of hydrogen, and gas turbines, which 
will make it possible to efficiently reconvert hydrogen to a usable source of energy (electricity, heat, mechanical power to drive equipment, etc).Partnership and collaboration
The financing challenges, alongside the need to bring together the right mix of infrastructure, location, tech-nology, and regulations, mean that no one entity can 
develop a viable hydrogen project alone. All stakeholders 
need to collaborate and contribute their part. Only in this way can any clean hydrogen project deliver on both cost and sustainability. 
Governments need to create an enabling environment. 
Renewable energy developers and utilities with clean 
energy capacity need to coordinate electricity demand 
requirements with electrolysis developers. Hydrogen producers, in turn, need to be sure that steady and reliable buyers will consume the volume of hydrogen produced. 
Owners of pipelines and storage infrastructure need to be 
ready to handle the flow of hydrogen from production to consumption or to export. 
Required 
compression
O2 and CO 2 
pipelinesH2 transportation
Long distance pipelinesCompressors
Page 7 © 2021 Siemens Energy
3. Compression: A crucial technology
An essential component of the hydrogen value chain is 
compression. It is needed to move, store, and use 
hydrogen. From the point at which hydrogen is produced to the point where it is consumed, different types of compres-sion are required. This includes the gathering of hydrogen produced by electrolyzers, steam methane or autothermal reformers (SMRs/ATRs), sending hydrogen through short-  
or long-distance pipelines, compressing hydrogen to the pressure levels required by vehicle fueling stations, lique-faction for vessel transport facilities, and feeding it into gas 
turbines or other downstream and petrochemical processes.
In addition, CO
2 compression is a critical element to enable 
blue hydrogen production and related CCUS (Carbon 
Capture Underground Storage).
Hydrogen has the lowest molecular weight of any sub-  
stance and has a low density (one eighth that of natural 
gas): this has important implications for compression, 
including the need for more energy and more compression 
stages to reach a given compression level. Its small molec-ular size also results in some additional sealing challenges for compressors to minimize internal and external leakages compared against the requirements when they handle 
natural gas.  
Compression process
There are two primary compression methods used for 
hydrogen today, both of which have years of demonstrated success in industrial applications. The first is positive 
displacement, most commonly applied by reciprocating 
compressors using a piston to compress the gas. For these machines, hydrogen is drawn into the cylinder through the suction inlet as the piston moves from outer-dead-center 
position to inner-dead-center; the piston then reverses 
direction and compresses the gas contained in the cylinder. As the gas reaches discharge pressure, the discharge valves open, allowing the gas to flow from the cylinder at higher 
pressure, and then the process repeats.
The second method is dynamic, most commonly applied by 
centrifugal type turbocompressors. These are based on 
imposing changes in the angular momentum of the fluid, 
utilizing high-speed impeller rotation to impose high-ve-locity kinetic energy into the gas that is then converted to pressure through the stationary diffuser. In these machines, gas enters via the suction inlet flange, flows into a series of 
compression stages which sequentially increase the pres-
sure of the gas as it passes through the machine, and then exits the machine through the discharge nozzle (flange). 
Each one of the compression stages is composed of a 
rotating component (i.e. the impeller) and stationary components (i.e. the diffuser, which converts kinetic energy into pressure energy, and the return channel which 
redirects the gas and prepares it to enter into the next 
stage. For the case of the last stage, the stationary compo-nents will have a discharge volute following the diffuser 
(there is no return channel). The pressure ratio that can be 
achieved by the machine is influenced by the size of the impellers, the number of impellers, and the rotational speed than can be achieved.
Irrespective of the compression technology that is chosen, 
getting hydrogen gas to the required discharge pressure level usually requires several stages. In reciprocating machines, the piston speed, stroke length and bore size together determine compressor capacity, and the compres-sion ratio is limited by the discharge gas temperature, 
based on American Petroleum Institute (API) industry 
standards. In turbocompressors, one key factor to influence the pressure ratio capability per compression stage is the tip-speed of the impeller (a function of the impeller diam-
eter and rotating speed), which is usually constrained by 
aerodynamic design limits, as well as mechanical and material strength limitations.  
Reciprocating compressors
Several factors go into the choice of a reciprocating compressor, including valve lift, rotating speed, piston speed, piston and packing ring, rider bands materials, and 
capacity controls.
Valves, rotation speed and pistons
The compressor valve is perhaps the most crucial element 
of the compressor, requiring a balance between reliability and efficiency. High lift, high efficiency valves can lead to valve ‘flutter’ which causes the valve sealing elements to 
cycle many times per single stroke of the piston.
Figure 7: Siemens Energy BDC reciprocating compressor
Page 8 © 2021 Siemens Energy
This increase in cycling introduces many more seating 
impact events, which can lead to increased wear rates and 
maintenance. Reducing valve lift reduces impact forces and cycling, and extends valve operating life but may compro-mise efficiency due to increased pressure drop across the valves. Compressor valve selection is optimized for reli-ability and efficiency with a dynamic valve analysis for each 
application.
Valve life also is impacted by compressor rotating speed, 
since lower rotating speed will reduce the number of valve 
impact events per minute, mean time between valve change-out will be proportional to rotating speed. Conversely, higher rotating speed will increase the mainte-nance frequency.
The rotation speed also cycles the compressor piston from 
outer-dead-center, to inner-dead-center and back with each revolution. Because of the interplay between rotating speed and stroke length, maximum average piston speed can be 
maintained by adjusting these two parameters. Mainte-
nance intervals are therefore impacted by the choice of allowable rotating speed and maximum average piston speed.
Process reciprocating compressors (API 618) typically 
operate between 277 rpm and 450 rpm, with a stroke range from 9” to 18” (229 mm to 458 mm). High-speed recipro-
cating compressors (API 11P) typically operate between  
600 rpm and 1800 rpm, with a stroke range from 5” to 8”  
(127 mm to 203 mm).Piston and packing rings, and rider bands
Rider bands carry the weight of the piston and half of the 
piston rod and distribute this weight over the area of the rider band contacting the cylinder bore. Force per unit area, or unit loading of the rider band is determined by dividing the weight by the contact area. API 618 recommends  
10 psi (69 kPa) unit loading for lubricated services and 5 psi (34.5 kPa) unit loading for non-lubricated applications.
Piston rings and packing rings are composed of carbon-
filled PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene) non-metallic materials, which have better sealing and wear properties than prior generation metallic-ring materials.
Reciprocating compressors  
Over 1,500 units in operation,  
over 2 million horsepower in H2 rich services
Markets
• Process industries
• Refining
• H2 pipelines (up to 750,000 Nm3/h with 3 units)
• H2 boosting after electrolysis system
• H2 storage (up to 300 bar)• High Speed and Process Recip –  
standardized and project specific designs
• Up to 170 bar (dry) 300 bar (lubed), 1 to 5 MW 
• Used primarily for H2 product, tail gas, feed gas and H2 
make up applications as well as H2 pipeline and storage.
• Very efficient for hydrogen compression applications
• World renowned dependable service  
and steadfast reliability
Page 9 © 2021 Siemens Energy
Turbocompressors
The specific work required to compress a volume flow from 
a suction to a discharge-pressure is defined by the pres-
sure-integral across the specific volume of the flow.  
So, because of the very low density of hydrogen, turbo-
compressors in hydrogen duty require a comparably high number of compression stages. This, in turn, results in a trade-off regarding the footprint for turbocompressors. 
Indeed, in the recent past, turbocompressors in hydrogen 
duty have been primarily applied for medium and high volume flows, but rather small overall pressure ratios.
One way to increase the work/pressure ratio per compres-
sion stage and decrease the footprint of a turbocompressor in hydrogen duty is to increase the tip speed and/or circum-
ferential portion of the absolute flow leaving the impeller 
at outer diameter (discharge). For gases with high molec-ular weights, this approach might be affected by transonic considerations; but for hydrogen, the speed of sound is rather high, which supports a high tip speed approach.
This approach, achieved by increasing rotating speeds, 
requires additional considerations regarding the compressor 
and the compressor train, in terms of technical feasibility 
and ensuring that the solution is cost effective and efficient. The evaluations need to include the proper balance in the design among mechanical, material stress, aerodynamic and 
rotor-dynamic criteria, among others. Finally, especially 
considering the increased speed requirements of the compressor, the overall train architecture needs to be prop-erly evaluated to achieve the best overall solution.
H2 rich synthesis gas turbocompressors
• Up to 200 bar and 100% H2 content
• Typically steam turbine driven several compressor body 
trains primarily for hydrogen rich syngas services
• Advanced, reliable technology with proven references
• Existing turbocompressor technology requires many impellers in several casings to achieve a reasonable  
compression ratio for hydrogen gas
• Existing turbocompressors in natural gas pipelines can be 
upgraded to be used for up to 40% H
2 in the pipeline
Markets
• Downstream/process industries
• Refining
• PipelinesCompressor selection considerations
For operators looking to deploy hydrogen compressors, the 
most salient features include the facility’s footprint, capital costs, availability/reliability and operating expenses 
(including the cost of maintenance). Both compressor types 
can handle a broad range of application scenarios, with the choice of technology based on economic tradeoffs and the specific requirements of each application, including 
required flowrates, pressure ratios, use cases, footprint 
limitations, use of dry or wet sealing, and whether the gas is 100 percent hydrogen or blended with natural gas.Figure 8: Siemens Energy turbocompressor, STC-SV
Page 10 © 2021 Siemens Energy
Figure 9: Main target of Siemens Energy compressors is to provide typical pipeline pressure ratio in a single casing
Pressure ratioReciprocating compressors:
 High efﬁcient H 2-compression via 
positive displacement even at part loads
 Part load ﬂow rate turn downs of 50% 
or more typical at high compression efﬁciency (90%)
 Maintenance intervals of over 3 years, 
process and gas dependent. 
Clean dry H
2 is ideal.
Turbocompressors:
 Primarily applied with moderate/high volume ﬂows
 Two well-referenced product lines, i.e. integrally 
geared and single shaft compressors to optimize compression solution with TurbocompressorsComing soon for turbocompressors:
Maximized pressure ratio per stage resultingin reduced frame size and stage countincreased applicability for high pressure ratio 
Suction volume ﬂow [m3/h]
Molecular weight and efficiency
The most apparent differentiator between reciprocating 
and turbocompressors in the hydrogen context relates to its 
low molecular weight. While reciprocating compressors can have an advantage with respect to efficiency and leakage for low molecular weight gases such as hydrogen, several 
aspects (including those identified above) have to be 
considered for a proper evaluation.
Compressor stages
For example, while turbocompressors may require more 
stages, the nature of turbocompressor designs is such that multiple stages handling large volumes of gas can be accommodated in machines that occupy a smaller footprint 
than reciprocating compressors handling the same volumes 
of gas at similar pressure ratios. For reciprocating compres-sors, more stages require more cylinders, given the temperature limits, while turbocompressors can increase tip 
speed and wheel size. This also means turbocompressors 
can deliver capital cost advantages in high-volume situa-tions.
The efficiency advantage of reciprocating compressors may 
also be diminished at high flow volumes, given the increased number of cylinders required with that technology. 
As a result, turbocompressors are more often applied in 
high-volume flow situations requiring relatively lower pressure ratios. Reciprocating compressors are more often used in situations where lower volumes, but higher pres-sures are required. Reciprocating compressors also are better suited where part-load operations are anticipated.
OPEX considerations
While the higher efficiency of reciprocating compressors 
makes them attractive from a power consumption perspec-
tive, turbocompressors can usually run for longer times without requiring maintenance, so they have an operating expense benefit resulting from their longer maintenance intervals. Furthermore, when the end user has a spare 
centrifugal compressor modular cartridge available, the 
time to refurbish these types of machines is significantly lower, reducing the time to bring the facility back online. 
Capacity control 
Capacity control facilitates greater efficiency in power 
consumption by enabling users to compress only as much 
hydrogen as is needed. With reciprocating compressors, 
this can be achieved with fixed volume clearance pockets within the compressor cylinder, suction valve unloaders to reduce compressor capacity, and reverse suction-flow or 
infinite-step capacity controls. 
For both reciprocating and turbocompressors, variable 
frequency drive (VFD) motors can be used to vary the 
rotating speed of the compressor to adjust to capacity 
demand.
Page 11 © 2021 Siemens Energy
4. The Future: Balance requires diversity
Here, compressors represent a basic technology, as they are 
used for a safe and cost-effective hydrogen transport and 
storage – an essential point for a smooth energy flow and deployment. With a comprehensive portfolio of both recip-rocating and turbocompression solutions for use in hydrogen applications, along with a global manufacturing network, Siemens Energy is prepared to meet the growing 
demand for future compression technology and to enable 
customers to shift to a more efficient and sustainable future.
Just as the hydrogen economy requires many parties to 
work together, the larger energy transition requires industry, government, citizens and other stakeholders to come together to build an energy system that is advanta-geous – to the people of today and tomorrow, and to the 
planet. By balancing interests and leveraging a range of 
energy solutions, the global community will be able to address the threat of climate change and create countless new opportunities.
Figure 10:  
 In the interplay of the various technologies, hydrogen compression plays an essential role for a safe and reliable energy flow in all areas of application
Addressing climate change will require action across the 
entire economy and in most other areas of life. Siemens 
Energy is committed to providing solutions that benefit society as well as the economy. Building a low-carbon energy system to achieve the goal of full decarbonization will entail a range of energy technologies, including both zero- and lower-carbon solutions.
During the energy transition, renewable energy solutions, 
such as solar PV and wind, will play a major role, but so will 
natural gas and synthetic fuels such as hydrogen. These 
technologies are not in opposition, they will actually complement each other.
As policymakers look to address climate change, while also 
ensuring affordability and security of supply as demand 
grows, they cannot choose one over the other. Many solu-
tions are needed today and will continue to be a crucial part of the energy story for decades. Siemens Energy is well placed to provide holistic, clean and safe solutions for the 
emerging hydrogen economy, by offering all necessary 
technologies, products, solutions and services along the entire H
2 value chain and its application fields. 
Page 12 © 2021 Siemens Energy

Page 13 © 2021 Siemens EnergyPublished by
Siemens Energy 2021
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Siemens Energy  
Freyeslebenstrasse 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
Siemens Energy Inc.  
15375 Memorial Drive  
Houston TX 77079  
United States  
For more information, please contact us:  
(Charges depending on provider)  
E–mail: communications.industrialapplications@siemens-energy.com
 
siemens-energy.com/industrial-applicationsThe content is provided for informational purposes only and you should 
not construe any information presented as legal, tax, investment, financial, or other professional advice. The content is of a general nature and does not address the circumstances of any particular application or installation, nor does it constitute a comprehensive or complete statement of the matters discussed or the laws relating thereto. Any information about Siemens Energy products and services is subject to change without notice. Cost assumptions, expected 
capabilities or benefits may not apply in specific applications or be 
realized in all cases. Nothing in this document shall be deemed or construed to be a warranty or guarantee of the information, product(s), service(s) or component(s) described herein.Source-list: 
1) IEA 2021, CO2 emissions in https://www.iea.org/reports/
global-energy-review-2021/CO2 -emissions
2) United Nations, UN News 2020, Carbon dioxide levels 
hit new record in https://news.un.org/en/story/2020/  
11/1078322 
3) IEA 2021, CO2 emissions in https://www.iea.org/reports/
global-energy-review-2021/CO2 -emissions
4) World Resources Institute 2020, Greenhouse gas emis-sion in https://www.wri.org/blog/2020/02/greenhouse-gas-emissions-by-country-sector
5) World Resources Institute 2020, Greenhouse gas emis-sion in https://www.wri.org/blog/2020/02/greenhouse-
gas-emissions-by-country-sector
6) Live Science 2017, Why is hydrogen the most common 
element in https://www.livescience.com/58498-why-is-
hydrogen-the-most-common-element.html7) Strategy and Part of the PWC Network, The dawn of green hydrogen in https://www.strategyand.pwc.com/
m1/en/reports/2020/the-dawn-of-green-hydrogen/the-dawn-of-green-hydrogen.pdf
8) Hydrogen Council 2017, Hydrogen scaling up in  
https://hydrogencouncil.com/wp-content/uploads/  
2017/11/Hydrogen-scaling-up-Hydrogen-Council.pdf
9) Hydrogen Council 2017, Hydrogen scaling up in  
https://hydrogencouncil.com/wp-content/uploads/  
2017/11/Hydrogen-scaling-up-Hydrogen-Council.pdf
10) BloombergNEF 2021, Green hydrogen to outcompete blue everywhere by 2030 in https://about.bnef.com/blog/green-hydrogen-to-outcompete-blue-every -
where-by-2030/