Rugged Performer
The BDC frame is engineered to the highest 
standards. The fine-grain, cast iron frame 
provides maximum stability through the use 
of heavily ribbed walls and bearing saddles. 
The frame’s rigid design is further enhanced 
with precision spacer blocks and dual tie 
rods above each bearing saddle and each 
pair of crank throws to reduce distortion 
caused by gas and inertia forces. To ensure 
precise bearing alignment, the bearing 
saddles are bored in a single set-up .
Precision-Built, Balanced-Opposed Design
Each BDC is built with a fixed crank design 
that reduces couples. The crankshaft is 
forged from high-tensile strength alloy steel 
that is fully stress-relieved and heat-treated. 
All journals and crankpins are precision 
ground and polished to exact tolerances.The BDC reciprocating process 
compressor has earned a 
reputation for long-lasting 
performance. During the  
past 70 years, advancements 
in design and material 
technologies have allowed 
continuous improvement  
to the BDC’s design and 
manufacture. With more than 
1,200 units shipped worldwide, 
the BDC process compressor  
is an excellent choice for a 
variety of process gas 
applications.
Dresser-Rand BDC-18H3
Reciprocating Process Compressor
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressors
Rugged, precision-machined tri-metal 
main and crankpin bearings are 
generously sized for long-lasting service. 
Bearings are positioned on both sides of 
each pair of crankthrows. All bearings 
are forced-lubricated per API-618 
specifications. Connecting rods are 
rifle-drilled for lubrication of the 
crosshead pin bushing.
The flanged crosshead is designed for 
error-free assembly, ensuring maximum 
reliability through the accurate hydraulic 
pre-stressing of the critical piston-to-
crosshead bolting. Hydraulic tensioning 
reduces labor and maintenance 
downtime, while increasing safety  
and reliability. The crosshead flange  
is firmly secured to the piston rod by  
a hydraulically tensioned nut and the 
flange is then attached to the crosshead 
using six hydraulically tensioned studs. 
The design employs an adjusting ring on 
the nose of the crosshead to facilitate 
adjustment of piston rod runout without 
having to re-shim the crosshead shoes. 
A spacer provides simple, one-time 
adjustment of piston-to-cylinder end 
clearance. The hydraulics are located  
in the tensioning tool instead of the 
piston nut, where an O-ring failure may 
necessitate torching through the rod  
to disassemble the joint. An air-motor 
driven hydraulic pump, tensioning 
devices, and piston rod alignment  
tools are provided.
All frame and distance piece inspection 
and service openings are extra large to 
permit easy access. The frame-to-frame 
extension, frame extension-to-distance 
piece, and distance piece-to-cylinder 
bolting is external, making hydraulic 
tensioning easy and accurate.Outstanding Cylinder  
Design and Selection
Each cylinder is capable of loading the 
frame’s maximum allowable continuous 
rod load. All cylinder bolting, piston nut, 
and valve differential pressures meet 
this design criteria to permit future 
flexibility if process conditions change  
or the compressor is reapplied to 
another application. Cylinders are 
available for lubricated or non-lubricated 
service. Materials include nodular iron, 
cast steel, fabricated carbon or stainless 
steel, and forged steel.Dimensions
Dimensions provided are typical,  
basis API Type B distance pieces.  
For Type C & D distance pieces add  
34 inches (86 cm) to the width 
dimension and 17 inches (43 cm)  
to the rod removal distance.ROD  
REMOVAL  
DISTANCE
106 in. 
(262 cm)385 in. 
(978 cm)74in. 
(188 cm)L
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Specifications
Maximum HP 45,000 (33,556 kW)
Standard strokes 12 to 16 inch (305 to 406 mm)
Number of throws 2, 4, 6, 8, or 10
Cylinder bore range 7 to 48.5 inch (178 to 1,232 mm) max bore
BDC-18H3 Typical Length (L) Dimension
Throws  2 4 6 8 10
Inches 119 192 267 341 417
Centimeters 302 488 679 869 1,059