 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 16 
Februar y, 2021 
 
Gas Field Policy 16:  Carbon Dioxide Service (with H2O) 
 
GENERAL: 
 
Carbon dioxide is a colorless, odorless gas which is normally obtained by combustion of carbon (in any form) with an excess of oxygen. It is also obtained from the heating of limestone or from the action of acids on 
carbonate materials, or as a by-produ ct of fermentation. Carbon dioxide is soluble in water, alcohol and alkalies. 
Its water solution is carbonic acid which is very corrosive.  
Although carbon dioxide is not poisonous, it  induces asphyxia by excluding oxygen. CO
2 does not react with air 
or oxygen and is therefore neither explosive nor combustible.   
 
MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION:  
CO
2 is substantially non-corrosive. Synthetic rubbers have commercial resistance to this gas. 
 
In the presence of water, however, CO 2 will cause severe corrosion of unp rotected iron and steel, which could 
be significant during idle periods with low cylinder wall temperatures.  
Please refer to Section 15.4 (Carbon Dioxide) of API 11P Second edition, dated November 1, 1989. 
 
1.  If the concentration of CO
2 (in a wet gas phase), at the suction pr essure of any stage, falls into the 
"A" range (see curve page 2), Siemens Energy re commends its standard materials of construction. 
 
2.  If the concentration of CO 2 (in a wet gas phase), at the suction pr essure of any stage, falls into the 
"B" range (see curve page 2), Siemens Energy requ ires the following construction for maximum 
resistance to corrosion.   
1.  Age Hardened 17-4 PH stainl ess steel piston rods with Siemens Energy "TC3" coating in the 
area of packing travel. 
 
2. Stainless steel internal bolting in "clamshell" type cylinders. 
 3. Suction port oilers located in cylinder or suction piping. 
 
4. Stainless steel or pickled and oiled frame lube oil piping. 
 
5. Frequent bore inspections to determine proper  cylinder lubrication rate (See “Commissioning”  
 Section below). 
 
6. Valve cover "O" rings can be 90 durometer Viton or AFLAS.  
7. Valve cover o-rings may also be made from Virgin Teflon® material. This has proven successful 
 in reducing/eliminating explosive decompression (ED) in standard o-rings.  
8. Oil slingers are required due to oil compatibility and longer distance pieces may be required. 
 Note: Please refer Siemens Energy HSRC Grou p for any other special requirements. 
 
3. In all cases, the distributor and operator must insure that liquids are not allowed to form or 
accumulate in any compressor cylinder. 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 16 
Februar y, 2021 
CYLINDER LUBRICATION: 
 
1. CO 2  is soluble in mineral oils, thereby reducing the oil / gas mixture viscosity.  Mineral oils are 
complete miscible into CO 2 which can have a major effect on an oil’s ability to lubricate.  PAG (poly-
alkaline-glycol) synthetic lubricants are commonl y used where there is a specified level of CO 2 
concentration associated with a given operational CO 2 gas pressure (see following graph). 
 
2. If the concentration of CO 2  and suction pressures are greater than prescribed values in the 
following graph, a pure synthetic PAG (poly-alkaline- glycol) with a viscosity index of 150 or greater 
is recommended. 
 3. Again, in all cases, the distri butor and operator must insure that liquids are not allowed to form or 
accumulate in any compressor cylinder. 
 
4. Cylinder pre-lube can be employed if you have an off-mounted lubrication system.  As CO
2 has an 
affinity to sweep away oil, a pre-lube will ensur e that there will not be a dry start on the cylinder 
bore.  A suggested time for pre-lube would be 10-15 minutes.  Adjust pre-lube time as dictated by 
cylinder bore inspections. 
 
 
COMMISSIONING: 
 
1. Verifying proper lubrication rates is critical to  the successful operational life of compressor cylinders 
and pressure packing, especially within  the first days and weeks of operation. 
 
2. After establishing and making preparations for t he correct oil to lubricate the cylinder bore and 
pressure packing, a stepped procedure for periodic cylinder bore inspections is to be carried out. 
 
3. During “break-in”, initial cylinder bore lube oil rates should be established as per the unit Operation 
and Maintenance Manual.  Note that the compressor s leave the factory with their lube pumps set at 
the maximum flow rate which typically exceeds the recommended break-in rate by 10-20%. 
 
4. Cylinder bores should be inspected for proper lu brication after the first three days of operation and 
once a week thereafter for the next three weeks of  operation.  All inspections should use the 
“Cigarette Paper” test (see manual for details). 
 
5. After the first three weeks of operation, if t he cylinders are showing adequate lubrication using the 
“Cigarette Paper” test, the lubrication rates may be adjusted down assuming more than adequate 
lubrication is present during the inspections above. 
 
6. Lubrication rates should be adjusted down in increments of 5-10% maximum. 
 
7. Once the lubrication rate is turned down, all cylinder bores should be inspected weekly using the 
“Cigarette Paper” test.  Assuming this inspec tion passes the “Cigarette Paper” test, it is 
recommended the unit be ran for three weeks before turning down the lubrication rates again. 
 
8. There should always be enough oil present to we t the “Cigarette Paper”.  If the paper doesn’t wet, 
then the lubricator rates should be increased. 
 
NOTE  
 
The “Cigarette Paper” test only gives indication of oil 
film quantity.  It does not give an indication of viscosity 
quality.  Oils diluted with water, hydrocarbons or other constituents 
may produce what appears to be an adequate film but the oil may 
not have the required load-carrying capability due to dilution. 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 16 
Februar y, 2021 
 
 
