 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 23 
Januar y, 2022 
 
 
Gas Field Policy 23:  Non-Lube Service 
 
The following criteria must be met before a Siemens Ener gy compressor can be offered for non-lube service:  
 
1. Discharge pressures are generally limited to 1500 PSIG. 
 
2. Average piston speeds ar e not to exceed 750 ft/min. 
 
3. Distance pieces are required. 
 
  4.   Oil slingers must be provided on all piston rods . To accommodate these, dist ance pieces are required on 
        the MOS and extra long distance pieces ma y be required on HOS/HOSS depending on the cylinder size  
        and/or pressure rating. 
   5.   Packing cases must be water cooled when discharge pressures exceed 250 psig. 
 
  6.   Cylinder bores must have a 16 RM S special finish and be sprayed with Teflon. 
 
  7.   Piston rods to be coated only when application absolutely requires it. 
   8.   There may be special requirements beyond what is normally required for lubed applications such as 
        cylinder liners, special pistons, distance pieces, etc. 
   9.   Estimated actual discharge gas temperature is no t to exceed 250° F for gas cooled cylinders and 300° F  
        for water cooled cylinders. 
 10.   Process vessels and piping must be carefully desi gned to prevent liquids and foreign debris from entering  
        the compressor. They must be very carefull y cleaned prior to mounting on the compressor packaged unit.  
        Siemens Energy also recommends that a coat ing such as Hunting Industrial #8101 (or equal) be applied  
        to all vessels and gas piping to help maintain cleanliness. Foreign debris from the vessels or piping along  
        with liquids can form a greasy paste that has  the potential to block the vent ing of piston and packing rings 
        and/or adhere to the cylinder bore and valves with a detrimental effect on service life. 
 
11.   Abrasive fines from such things  as molecular sieves or desiccant dryers, glass or ceramics from towers or  
        columns, etc. must be eliminated or at least filtered to below 1 micron. 
 
12.   Siemens Energy will provide the non-lubricat ed compressor cylinders and packing cases drilled for 
        lubricated service and plugged. In the ev ent that the Process Gas Syst em requirements cannot be  
        achieved to provide acc eptable service life, this will facilitate c onversion to lubricated construction and  
        operation if necessary.  
13.   Wear parts in non-lubricated compressor cylinders  typically experience shorter service life than do wear  
        parts in lubricated compressor cylinders which tr anslates into more frequent maintenance stoppages. The  
        user should ensure they have an adequate supply of replacement parts on hand to avoid unnecessary    
        down time. 
 14.   Start-up procedures must be submitted to Siemens Energy for review. 
 
15.   On HOS & HOSS compressors, 26” - 28” – “clamshell type” – cylinders cannot be used. 
 
16.   Stroke should be limited to 5” or 6”.  Should a 7”  stroke be required for an application, this will require 
        engineering review for any piston design changes. 
 