         
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Installation 
2020, Rev. #0 
Packager Guidelines 
Section 2: Installation 
 
2-1. Skids 
 
All reciprocating compressors gen erate inherent unbalanced forces. Siemens Energy’s high speed 
reciprocating compressors are balanced - opposed ty pe compressors in which the weight of one throw 
is equal to that of the opposing throw. Where requ ired, the reciprocating weig ht of opposing throws is 
balanced within a specified tolerance by the use of  weighted rod jam nuts, heavy crossheads and/or 
weights attached to the crossheads. Due to the offs et of the throws, an inherent couple is present, 
though counterbalance weights are installed on the cr ankshaft to reduce the moments significantly.  
 
Because all compressors have unbalanced forces, an adequate skid and/or foundation is necessary to prevent vibration and movement of the unit. 
 
NOTE 
 
On a one-, three-, or five- cylinder compressor unit, the 
open throw is fitted with a balancing crosshead or balancing 
cylinder of sufficient weight to properly counterbalance the 
weight of the opposing piston and rod assembly. 
 
Foundation mounted skids should be rigid enough to transmit unbalance forces and moments into the 
foundation.  
Skids designed to operate without being mounted on  a foundation should have enough mass to properly 
carry unbalance forces and moments into the soil. 
 
2-1.1. Skid Design 
 
Skid design is the responsibility of the packager; however, the following univers al guidelines are offered 
to assist the designer:  
1. It is essential that the frame and the skid shou ld act as a single mass to properly absorb the 
effects of unbalance forces and moments. To do so, the frame mounting points should be flat, 
level and smooth enough to transmit these forces into the skid structure. A machined surface 
can be used to achieve sufficient contact. A pourable chock or grout can also be used to 
increase the surface contact. 
 
2. Compressor mounting studs should be la rge enough and have enough tensile strength to 
prevent movement between the compressor base and the skid. The following table lists required 
stud sizes for each of the frame models. This tabl e is based on studs or bolts with an ultimate 
strength of 100,000 psi (703.1 kg/cm
2). Higher strength studs are pr eferred, but if they are used, 
they should be tightened to approximately 55% of the ultimate strength of the bolt material. 
 
The bolts should be long enough to enable the bolts to remain tight through normal inspection 
intervals. The longer the bolt, the more stretch and the longer the bolt will stay tight. In all cases, 
the following guidelines should be adhered to: 
 
• Clean and oil threads before assembly with mineral oil. 
• Avoid shear loading of bolts. 
• Use the proper tools for tightening. • Use calibrated torque wrenches. 
• If grout is used, protect the anchor bolt from adhering to the grout. 
         
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Installation 
2020, Rev. #0 
Table 1. Required Stud Sizes 
 
Compressor 
Model Mounting 
Hole Size 
in. (mm) Required Bolt 
Size 
 in. (mm) Min. Torque 
(oiled threads) 
ft-lbs. (Nm) 
MOS 1-5/16 (33.3) 1-1/4-8 (31.6) 710 (963) 
HOS 2-3/16 (55.6) 2 4- 1/2 (51.0) 2930 (3973) 
HOS* 1-5/8 (41.3) 1-1/ 2-6 (38.1) 1230 (1668) 
HOSS 1-5/8 (41.3) 1-1/ 2-6 (38.1) 1230 (1668) 
 
   *Effective 2014 – Verify Actual Size Before Applying Specified Torque 
 
3. The skid must be rigid enough to handle lifting and tr ansporting to the job site without excessive 
flexing, which creates high stresses on the frame and cylinders. Flexing of the skid between the 
driver and the compressor should also be held to a minimum to reduce the possibility of 
damage to compressor or driver bearings or co upling. Multiple runners, heavy cross-section 
beams, or concrete fill are often us ed to increase skid rigidity. 
 
4. The skid should also be designed so that its nat ural frequency, when installed, is sufficiently far 
enough away from both the operat ing speed and twice the operating speed of the unit that a 
resonant vibration will not be present. To avoid a resonant vibration, it is recommended that the 
natural frequency either be less than 80% of  the minimum operating speed of the unit, or 
greater than 240% of the maximum operating sp eed. Piping systems and structures that are 
attached to the skid should also be examined to ensure that they are also outside the critical 
frequency range. 
 
 
2-2. Setting and Leveling (Grouted Frames) 
 
The following procedure describes the setting and leveling of a typical grouted frame: 
 
1. The compressor base is drilled and tapped near each foundation bolt hole for frame leveling 
setscrews.  Leveling setscrews are not norma lly supplied, but are available upon request. 
Greasing the leveling setscrews will aid in leveling the frame and make them easier to back off 
after leveling. A 1/2 inch (13.0 mm) thick steel leveling plate should be placed under each 
leveling screw as shown in Figure 2 to prevent the setscrews from digging into the foundation. 
 2. Prior to setting the frame on the skid, the area of the frame which will contact the grout should 
be cleaned of all paint and preservative. This will insure a good adhesion of the grout to the 
frame. 
 
3. Lower the compressor frame over the foundation bolts, at the same time positioning the steel 
plates under the leveling screws. 
 
4. Place the leveling plates so that they do not extend beyond the outer edges of the compressor 
base. 
         
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Installation 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
5. The frame leveling surfaces consist of t he lower crosshead guides and the flat-machined 
surfaces on top of the frame. Clean all leveling su rfaces of dirt, grease, paint or anything which 
could result in a false level reading; however,  do not file, grind or use any other cleaning 
equipment that can remove metal from the leveling surfaces.  
6. Level the frame both longitudinally and transve rsely by means of the leveling setscrews. The 
nuts should not be on the foundation bolts at this time. Use a precision machinist's level on the 
machined leveling surfaces. Bring the frame to its final elevation and level it in both directions, 
keeping the weight evenly dist ributed on the leveling screws. Run the foundation bolt nuts lightly 
against the frame base flange to hold the final position. Do not attempt to level the frame by 
tightening the foundation bolt nuts. 
 
 
NOTE 
 
On four and six throw MOS, HOS and HOSS compressors, check at each main 
bearing with a 0.0015 inch (0.04mm) feeler  to see that there is no clearance 
between the bearing and the bottom of the crankshaft. A 0.0015 inch (0.04 mm) 
feeler should also be inserted between the shaft and the bearing at the horizontal centerline and then moved toward the bottom of the bearing on each 
side to be sure there is clearance just below (about 1 inch or 25.4 mm) the 
bearing split line.   
As the final check of frame alignment, a crankshaft deflection check may be 
made at each crank throw, but this is  not a requirement. Check the crank web 
deflection as shown in Figure 3. The mi crometer shown consists of an ordinary 
inside micrometer barrel with pointed extension shaft of the proper length to 
measure the span between crank webs. Bar the crank over until it points straight 
up. Insert the pointed end of the micromet er into a prick punch mark and adjust 
the barrel at the other end until it will just  pass the closest portion of the opposite 
web. Record the micrometer reading . Bar the crank 90° and take another 
reading - repeat at 180° and 270°. The four readings should not vary by more 
than 0.001 inch (0.03 mm) if the crankshaft is satisfactorily aligned. If the unit 
requires a flywheel, the frame leveling and crankshaft deflection should be done 
prior to the flywheel installation.  
 With the frame satisfactorily aligned and the foundation bolt nuts pulled down 
enough to hold the frame in position, proceed to grout the frame. The area 
under the center of the frame should not  be grouted. Place foam rubber (DO 
NOT USE STYROFOAM®) along both sides of the area to be blanked off. This 
should be in place before lowering the frame to its final elevation. The free 
height of the foam should be sufficient to allow approximately 1/4-inch (6.4 mm) 
crush per one inch (25.4 mm) of height w hen the frame is in its final position. A 
generous bead of caulking compound can be run on the top and bottom of the 
foam to assure a tight seal against bot h the frame and foundation. The foam can 
be left in place after the unit is grouted. Another method of blanking off the 
center of the frame during grouting invo lves placing a piece of foam under the 
frame to fill the entire area where the gr out is to be exclude d. The foam must 
then be removed, however, as it is import ant that there is an air space under the 
unit.  
 
After the unit is grouted, and the grout has been given sufficient time to harden, 
the leveling screws should be backed o ff and the foundation bolts tightened to 
the torque recommendations given in CHAPTER 5 of the instruction Manual. 
 
         
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Installation 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
NOTE 
 
We recommend that epoxy grout be used. Field experience has shown that 
certain types of non-shrink grouts continue to expand in service and can cause 
alignment problems. If this type of grout is  to be used, the characteristics of the 
material should be thoroughly investigated with the manufacturer before the 
selection is made.  
 
The final selection of a particular gr outing method and the brand of grouting 
material to be used are the responsibility of the customer or his contractor. Also, 
instructions concerning the use of a particular grouting material are the 
responsibility of the grout manufacturer.  
 To assure proper bonding of the epoxy grout to the concrete surface, make 
proper surface preparations before po sitioning the frame on the foundation for 
grouting.  
 
 
Figure 2. Leveling Setscrew 
 
 
NOTE 
If the frame is to set on sole plates, y ou should ensure that the jackbolts are 
backed off enough to not contact the sole plates after the frame has been 
tightened.  
On frames that are mounted on sole plates, all the feet should be checked for 
soft foot. To check for soft foot, mount a dial indicator in so it is reading off the top of the frame foot. Torque up the hold down bolt and insure the indicator 
does not move more than .002 inch (0.05 mm). If you have a higher reading 
than .002 inch (0.05 mm), the foot must be shimmed.  
The use of threaded adjustable chocks (e.g. Vibracons), are not recommended 
with the HOS and HOSS frames. 

         
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Installation 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
Figure 3. Measuring Crankshaft Deflection 
 
 2-3. Cylinder Supports  
HOS and HOSS:  Siemens Energy highly recommends outboard cylinder supports on conventional 
barrel type cylinders larger than 15” (381 mm), OR on any cylinder size that comes equipped with a 
VVCP or FVCP for the outer head.  
MOS:  Siemens Energy highly recommends outboard cylinder supports on cylinders larger than 15” 
(381 mm).  Cylinder supports are highly reco mmended when distance pieces are required. 
 
MOS cylinders come with supports on the outer end of the cylinder only.  
All cylinder supports are to be designed to support the cylinder off the machined ledge.  The bolting is 
provided to insure the support maintains contact wi th the ledge; the bolting is not intended to support 
any weight. 
  
These supports are highly recommended to support the combined weight of the cylinders and pulsation 
suppression devices, and to aid in stabilizing any horizontal forces generated by mechanical unbalance 
and gas acoustics.  Experience has shown that w hen these supports are not provided, issues have 
developed with regard to maintaining proper (free- state) frame main bearing clearances, crosshead 
running clearances and rod run-out.  Undesirable or ev en excessive vibration can result as well without 
them.  When the skid is designed to accommodate t hese cylinder supports, they must be bolted to a 
main member, not just to the steel deck plate, which may cover the skid. Shims must be used to 
maintain vertical alignment of the cylinders with the frame. 
 
Advantages gained through use of cylinder supports are twofold:  
1. Support of approximately one-ha lf of the cylinder weight and the total weight of the bottles. 
 
2. Maintenance of cylinder ali gnment with the crosshead guide. 

         
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Installation 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
NOTE 
 
A careful examination of gas piping and vessel arrangement should be made to 
ensure that supports indicated by these guidelines are satisfactory.  If the piping 
system for a packaged compressor contains unusually large and heavy 
pulsation vessels, or piping configurat ion that will induce high static and 
dynamic loading on the cylinders, Siemens  Energy recommends the use of a 
cylinder support for any size cylinder and frame arrangement.  
 
Cylinder supports should be flexible to allow for cylinder movement caused by frame load and inertia 
forces in a direction parallel to the piston rod cent erline. The supports must be wide at the bottom to 
restrict cylinder side movement. Construction should be such that support vibrat ion is minimized. This 
requires proper ribbing and gussets. Sole plates and shims should be used for ease of assembly, 
alignment and maintenance.  It is important that the cylinder support is designed to capture the machined “ledge” or “lip” provided on the cylinder.  The bolting itself is only expected to keep the 
support affixed to the cylinder and is not des igned to accept the weight of the cylinder. 
 
Cylinder supports cantilevered from the main skid beams are the least preferred design. When 
used, ribs must stiffen such supports. Additionally, the skid beam should be ribbed to prevent flexing at 
point of the cylinder support attachment.  
If the skid does not extend to the end of the cylinder to provide support, the cylinder should be 
supported by the main concrete foundation under the skid.  The foundation in this case must be one continuous mass.  Separate foundations under cylinder feet should not be used. 
 
 
2-4. Frame Supports (Crosshead Guide and Distance Piece) 
 
HOS and HOSS:  Crosshead guides are integral  with the frame and do not have support 
accommodations underneath the crosshead guide.  Ho wever, these frames are supplied with distance 
pieces and Siemens Energy highly recommends these frames be supported at this location. 
 
MOS:  Crosshead guides are integral with t he frame and do not have support accommodations 
underneath the crosshead guide.  These frames are ty pically not supplied with distance pieces.  When 
distance pieces are supplied, Siemens Energy highly recommends that these crosshead guides are 
supported. 
 All supports should be designed to provide good support in three directions (vertical, horizontal and 
axial).  When installing these supports, it should be noted that the weight of the cylinders installed on 
the frame extension/distance piece may cause some def lection, or horizontal droop.  Table 2 lists the 
amount of droop, which can be expected for various fr ames with various cylinders.  These supports 
cannot be bolted to the deck plate; t hey must be bolted to the main skid. 
 
         
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Installation 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
Table 2. Crosshead/Distance Piece Support Preload 
 
Compressor 
Model Cylinder Size 
3.50 – 9.25 
in. (mm) 9.50 – 15 
in. (mm) 17.25 – 28 
in. (mm) 
MOS *** .002” (0.05) .003” (0.08) .005” (0.13) 
HOS/HOSS .002” (0.05) .003” (0.08) .005” (0.13) 
*** Required Only When Distance Pieces are Used 
 
 
 
To properly allow for this droop, the support shou ld be installed with the desired amount of shim 
material, then the cylinder should be raised enough to add the additional amount of shim from the table. 
  
2-5. Paint 
 
All Siemens Energy equipment is shipped from the U.S.  factory with an alkyde primer sealer. It is up to 
the packager to insure any top coat applied over the alkyde primer  will be compatible with the primer. 
For specifics of this primer, pleas e call Siemens Energy Engineering. 
 