        
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Cylinde r and Packing Lubrication 
2020, Rev. #0 
Packager Guidelines 
Section 6: Cylinder and Packing Lubrication 
 
6-1.  GENERAL 
 1. For years, the lubrication r equirements of reciprocating compre ssor cylinders were based on the 
operator's field experience. Typically, the unit woul d be set up to provide a generous amount of oil 
to each lube point, based on the operator's field experience. After a short run time, the cylinder was opened up and the bore was checked to confir m that sufficient oil remained on the cylinder 
bore. While this remains as the most accurate way to determine the lubrication requirements, the 
shortage of experienced operators, coupled with  the wide range of compressor speeds and gas 
being compressed, has necessitated a more uniform approach for both break-in and normal 
operation. 
 
NOTE 
When shipped from Siemens Energy High Speed 
Reciprocating Compressors the cylinder lubricators 
are set wide open to deliver the maximum amount of oil. These will need to be adjusted for break-in and 
normal operation in the field.  Approximate start-up 
and break-in rates are shown on the cylinder lubrication schematic supplied in the order specific 
customer manual. 
 
2.  Start-up and break-in is the most critical ti me in the life of a compressor cylinder and packing. 
While cylinder bores, piston rings, piston rods, and packing have been manufactured to exacting 
tolerances and finishes, there still exist small ir regularities between the mating parts. During start-
up with new components, these regularities come into metal-to-metal contact and are gradually 
worn away. With a proper lubricant and adequate l ubrication rates, this results in a polished or 
glazed surface. During break-in, the function of the lu bricant is to fill these irregularities to reduce 
the rate of abrasion and to flush away the abr aded particles. This glazing process may take 
anywhere from a few hours to two weeks, and shou ld be monitored closely. Once the seating-in 
or glazing is complete, lubrication rates can be gradually reduced. 
 
3.  Due to increasing environmental concern and in the interest of economy, it  is desirable to reduce 
oil consumption to a minimum. Operation at mini mum oil flow rates also minimizes the buildup of 
carbon in the packing. 
 
4.  Many methods have been used to determine optim um lubrication rates. Most were based on the 
volume of oil required to cover the required surf ace area, with factors applied to compensate for 
the effect of pressure, speed, type of gas, diffe rential pressure, etc. This standard has been 
developed empirically and is the result of input  from several service and engineering sources. 
 
6-2.  Cylinder Lubrication System  
A mechanical lubricator provides lubrication of the compressor cylinder bores, and pressure piston rod 
packings. For some applications, "pump-to-point" lubr ication is supplied where each lubrication point is 
fed from an individual lubricator pumping unit. Normally , a metered "block-type" oil distribution system is 
furnished with the oil supply coming from the frame. With either method, a check valve is required at the 
cylinder connection of each oil line to prevent comp ressed gas from passing back through the lubrication 
system.  
 
        
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Cylinde r and Packing Lubrication 
2020, Rev. #0 
Recommendations are given to enable selection of suitable oil for a particular application and to 
determine an optimum feed rate. For external suction lubricator reservoirs, you must maintain a good 
grade of lubricant to lubricate internal components wi thin the box. It must be a viscosity grade of ISO 680 
compounded with acidless tallow AGMA-8. This provides a high degree of sliding motion under pressure 
and minimizes wear. 
 6-3.  Cylinder Oil Recommendations 
 
Four classifications of lubricating oil have been developed to cover the normal lubrication requirements of compressor cylinders. The physical and chemical pro perties of the four oil types generally recommended 
for these units are listed in Table 2-4. (This table is  general in nature and covers conditions and pressures 
not necessarily applicable to all compressors.)  
 
Selection of the proper type of oil for your pa rticular application normally will be determined by the 
discharge pressure and also by the gas quality with  respect to "wetness". Consideration also must be 
given to the local operating conditions. Review this se t of oil selection instructio ns with your oil supplier 
and compare your particular operating conditions wi th those listed in Table 2-4 for the various type 
cylinder oils. 
 
In addition to the operating conditions given in Table 2-4, the following information also must be considered when selecting the type of oil to be used in a particular situation.  
 
For Type 2 and 3 oils, the gases handled must be dry; that is, gases which do not carry suspended liquid, 
contain water vapor or other condensables which re main in the super-heated vapor state throughout the 
compression cycle. For Type 2X and 3X oils, the gases handled occasionally may carry small quantities 
of suspended liquid into the cylinder or may deposit some condensation in the cylinder. Type 2 oils are 
generally used when the operator wishes to use internal-combustion engine lubricating oil. 
 
A.  General Requirements  
These oils are well refined petrol eum products of the general types lis ted. They should be prepared from 
selected stacks of either naphthionic or paraffinic type , processed to minimize deposit formation. Superior 
rust-preventative properties also are desired. The po ur point must be consistent with the lowest ambient 
gas intake and cylinder temperatures to be encounter ed. The pour point always must be sufficiently lower 
than ambient temperature to permit the proper rate of oil feed by the lubricator. In handling low-
temperature gases, select oil of suitably low pour po int, on the basis of intake and cylinder temperatures, 
to maintain a fluid of lubricant in the cylinder.  
This oil must be capable of providing an improved  state of boundary lubrication and must resist the 
washing effect of the particular condensate involved.  
Type 2 - Internal-combustion engine lubricating oil of the following classes: 
 
• Straight mineral oil. 
• Additive-treated, non-detergent oil. 
• Detergent engine oil. 
 
 
Type 2X - Compounded compressor cylinder oil with 5% compounding is recommended. This oil must be 
capable of providing an improved state of boundary lubrication and must resist the washing 
effect of the particular condensate involved. 
 
 
Type 3 - Rust and/or oxidation-inhibited oil or straight mineral oil is acceptable. 
 
Type 3X- Compound compressor cylinder oil with 5 to 10% compounding is recommended. 
        
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Cylinde r and Packing Lubrication 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
Table 2-4. Standard Cylinder Oil Recommendations  
 
Operating Conditions  Type 2  Type 2X  Type 3  Type 3X  
Discharge Temp. 
F (°C) 
 Max. 350
Max. 177
 Max. 350
Max. 177
 350
177
 350
177
 
Condensed water vapor 
present  NO  POSSIBLE  NO POSSIBLE  
Suspended liquid present  NO POSSIBLE  NO POSSIBLE  
Special Requirements: 
Cylinder with discharge 
pressure of 2000 to 7000 
PSIG 
(13.8 to 48.27 Mpa) NO NO REQUIRED  REQUIRED  
Flash Point ( F) 
(Open Cup) (°C) 380Min. 
193° Min. 380Min. 
193° Min. 410Min. 
210° Min. 410Min. 
210° Min. 
Viscosity @ 100 F (38C) 
Sayvolt Universal SSU 
 Kinematic Viscosity cSt --- 
--- 780 Max. 
168.4 Max. --- 
--- --- 
--- 
Viscosity @ 219 F 
Sayvolt Universal SSU 
 Kinematic Viscosity cSt 60 Min. 
10.2 Min. 72 Min. 
13.3 Min. 105 Min. 
21.5 Min. 105 Min. 
21.5 Min. 
Sulfated Ash 0.50 Max. --- --- --- 
Neutralization Valve (color): 
Total Acid Number 
Strong Acid Number --- 
0.00 Max. --- 
0.00 Max. --- 
0.00 Max. --- 
0.00 Max. 
Carbon Residue 
Conradson 0.45 
Max 1 0.45 
Max 1 0.45 
Max 1 0.45 
Max 1 
 NOTES: 1 = Ash-free basis 
 
 B.  Service Considerations 
 
1.  On multi-stage compressors, or other applications involving hi gh cylinder discharge temperatures, 
it is necessary to use higher viscosity oil than is normal. 
 
2. When a gas being compressed is saturated with wa ter or hydrocarbons, it is mandatory that a 3X 
oil can be used. 
 
3. Certain lubricating oil additives will cloud the gl ycerin-water often used in lubricator sight feeds, 
necessitating frequent changes of the mixture.  Compressing air and/or using synthetic oils for 
cylinder lubrication poses other concerns.  See GFP15 for additional  criteria that must be met. 
 
4.  On services that are compressing air, it is recommended that a synthetic type lubricant is used. 
 
        
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Cylinde r and Packing Lubrication 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
CAUTION 
The continuous or intermittent carry-over of 
liquid to compressor cylinders requires the installation of efficient separators. 
 
C.  Inspection 
 
All tests of cylinder lubricants should be conducted in accordance with the Standard Methods (latest 
edition) of the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM). 
 
D.  Synthetic Lubricants  
In recent years many synthetic lubricants that enhance cylinder lu brication have been developed.  
Synthetic lubricants are essentially pure which mean s that the tendency to oxidize and react with gas 
constituents is greatly reduced.  Synthetics have al so been developed that resist particular lubrication 
problems such as condensation, absorption in the gas  stream and downstream c ontamination.  Synthetics 
are more expensive than petroleum oils, but can often be used in less quantity and can be more easily recovered, reconditioned and reused.  Synthetics ca n also lead to reduced maintenance requirements on 
valves, unloaders, piston rings and packing rings. 
 Synthetic lubricants are classified into several gene ral types that have specific properties that can 
minimize the effect of the undesirable factors t hat have a negative effect on cylinder lubrication. 
 
Synthesized Hydrocarbons (Polyalphaolefins-PAO):  Recommended for applications requiring 
low pour points, in the presence of liquid water, where constituents of the gas cause deposits with 
petroleum oils, where downstream contamination is a problem, and where lubricant absorption is 
a problem.  Synthetic hydrocarbons are suscepti ble to washing by hydrocarbon condensates and 
should not be used where these are of concern. 
 
Diesters:  Diesters have low pour points and readily ac cept additives which enhance their use.  
They are not compatible with petroleum based oils.  They are effective in reducing deposits due to break-down of petroleum based oil oils in air compressors.  They are not available in higher 
viscosities which makes them suspect in higher pressure applications.   
 Polyglycols (Polyalkalineglycol-PAG):  These lubricants are particularly resistant to washing by 
hydrocarbon liquids and dilution by high pressure hydrocarbon gases.  They also have low pour 
points.  They are not compatible with petroleum  based oils.  They are water soluble which is a 
problem where liquid water is present.  This can be reduced by blending with propylene oxide 
based polyglycols which are water insoluble but hydrocarbon soluble. 
 Food Grade Lubricants:  These lubricants are Food & Drug Administration (FDA) approved and 
are not judged to be harmful to man nor animal.  They are only used in processes where the end 
product is either intended for or comes in contact with materials that will be consumed by man or 
animal.  Most applications for food grade lubric ants are in high pressure polyethylene production. 
 
The best choice of lubricant for a particular appl ication depends on both pressure and temperature, as 
well as gas composition.  Siemens Energy has cla ssified recommended lubricant properties by viscosity 
requirement in Table 2-4.  Use of this table and th e gas composition will assist in selecting a suitable 
lubricant.  For particular brands of lubricants that meet  the requirements, work with your lubricant supplier.  
Siemens Energy does not recommend specific brands of lubricants. 
  
        
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Cylinde r and Packing Lubrication 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
6-4.  Cylinder Lubrication Rate 
 
1.  Under start-up and break-in conditions, the am ount of cylinder oil required for various cylinder 
sizes and discharge pressures is shown in Curve 2. These feed rates are approximate and are 
empirically derived. They are the suggested "break -in" feed rates when the gas is clean. Dirty gas 
will require increased feed rates as conditions dictate.  Since the vast majority of field gas is water 
saturated, the rates have been adjusted to include the additional oil required for this condition. 
 
5. Correction factors must be applied to the rates obtained from Curve 2 to account for the effects of 
speed and stroke, and for the specific gravity of  the gas stream. These correction factors are 
shown in Curves 3 and 4. 
 
  
Curve 2. Cylinder Lube Rate 
 
3.  Entrained liquids in the gas stream also will affect the amount  of lubrication required to the 
cylinder bore. Curve 2 is based on the gas being water saturated at inlet conditions. Additional 
water in the form of entrained liquid, or if one susp ects that liquids will be present, the lubrication 
flow rate may need to be increased by up to 60%. 
 
4.  Once you have completed the initial (break-in)  period, you may begin to turn down the lubrication 
rates by adjusting the pump on the lubricator. This must be accompanied by a routine bore inspection to be sure you maintain a reasonable le vel of bore lubricant. We would expect the final 
rate to be somewhere between 67% to 50% of the original "break-in" rates. 
28 
        
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Cylinde r and Packing Lubrication 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
Curve 3. Speed Stroke Factor (C1)  
  
Curve 4. Gas Density Factor (C2) 
  
5.  The best way to insure proper lubrication is the paper test method. To check the cylinders for 
proper lubrication rates with paper, the following is a good guideline: 
 
Relieve and vent all pressure from all cylinde rs and the system. Lock out  the system so the 
compressor cannot be rotated or started. Remove the head and position the piston at the 
innermost stroke. Use two layers of regular unwaxed commercial cigarette papers together. Wipe 
the cylinder bore at the top with both papers usin g light pressure in a circular motion through 
about 20°. The paper next to the bore should be stained or wetted with oil, but the second paper 
should not be soaked through. 
 

        
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Cylinde r and Packing Lubrication 
2020, Rev. #0 
Repeat the test at both sides of the bore 90° from the top using two new clean papers for each 
side. If the paper next to the bore is not stained  through, it may be an indication of under 
lubrication. This test should be performed on a ll cylinders. If both papers are stained through, it 
may be an indication of over lubrication. Either way, it is recommended that the lubrication rate be 
changed accordingly and the cigarette paper test be repeated until passed. If an increase or 
reduction of the lubrication rate is indicated for a cylinder, change in 5% increments by adjusting 
the cycle time of the lubricator pumps as out lined in the service manual. Let the machine run 24 
hours and repeat the film test  for all affected cylinders. 
 
NOTE 
 
The cigarette paper test only gives an indication 
of oil film quantity. It does not give an indication 
of viscosity quality. Oils diluted with water, 
hydrocarbons or other constituents may produce what appears to be an adequate film but the oil 
may not have the required load-carrying 
capability due to dilution. 
 
 
6-5.  Cylinder Lubricant Distribution 
 
1.  The number of lubrication points will vary depending on cylinder type, bore size and pressure 
rating. Cylinders have from one to four  points for lubrication as follows: 
 
onventional Cylinders: 
One Point - Always on top Two Points - One on top and one on bottom 
    DDV Cylinders - Four points - always on top 
 
When top feeds only are required, the total amount of lubricant is supplied to the top point(s), 
evenly divided between inner and outer points. Wh en both top and bottom feeds are required, the 
total amount of lubricant is split, with two thir ds to the top point(s) and one third to the bottom 
point(s). 
 
2.  In cases of extremely wet or corrosive gases , lubrication atomizers are sometimes placed in the 
inlet nozzle to lubricate the valves. To be effect ive, the valves must be flooded with oil, so a 
generous rate of 20 drops per minute (2.0 PPD or .041 cu. in./min.) per point should be used 
when sizing the distribution system. This amount of oil should supplement the oil fed to the 
cylinder bore. 
 3. When the cylinder lube system includes sucti on port oilers, the outlet connection is capped at the 
factory for shipment and the Packager is required to  tube it from the divider block or bulkhead to 
the connection point, which is usually in the suction bottle flange. 
 
        
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Cylinde r and Packing Lubrication 
2020, Rev. #0 
6-6.  Packing Lubrication Rate 
 
1.  Lubrication rate to the packing is established in much the same way as for the cylinder. The 
following formula is used to size for th e normal packing lubrication flow rate: 
 
 
Q = 0.002 [ (.75) (Rod Diam.) + (.0015) (Str oke) (RPM) + (.00075) (Discharge Pressure) ] 
 
Q is quantity of oil in Cu. In./Min. Rod Diam. is in inches 
Discharge Pressure in PSIG 
 
 
Calculations for the various frames in the HSRC li ne-up reveal that the rod size has very little 
impact on the lube rate to the rod, therefore, in  the interest of simplicity, Curve 5 has been 
developed to determine the packing lubrication rate  for various stroke compressors. Multiplying 
the stroke by the operating speed, and then followi ng the vertical line to the operating pressure 
will provide the required base lube rate. 
 
 
 
  
 
Curve 5. Packing Lubrication Rate 
 

        
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Cylinde r and Packing Lubrication 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
2.  The gas density correction from Curve 4 must be applied for heavy molecular weight gases.  The 
presence of entrained liquids may require increasin g the lube rate by the same factor as for the 
cylinder bore.  If corrosive gases are being pumped, the lube rate to the packing should be 
increased by 50%. 
 3. Minimum lube rate at "break-in" to each packing should be 1 pint per day = 0.02 Cu. In./Min. 
 
4. As with cylinder lubrication, the rates are approximate and must be confirmed by examining the 
rod after operation. 
 
 
6-7.  Packing Lubricant Distribution 
 1.  The number of lubrication points will vary de pending on compressor type  and pressure rating. 
Cylinder packing will have from none to two points as follows: 
 
MOS, HOS and HOSS Cylinders: 
Below 3000 PSIG (211 kg/cm
2) - One Point 
3000 PSIG (211 kg/cm2) and above - Two Points 
 
For two point lubrication, two thirds of the lubric ation is to be supplied to the point closest to the 
cylinder pressure and is usually marked H.P. or Inner Lube on packing cases; and one third is to the L.P. or Outer Lube point. 
 
 6-8. Points on Lubrication 
 
1. Ensure the proper lubricant is being used for the gas being compressed. 
 
2.  No matter what lubricant is being used, at any  flow rate, it cannot overcome dirt and foreign 
particles in the gas. Assure the gas, piping and bo ttles are clean and proper inlet filters and/or 
screens have been installed for start-up. 
 
3.  Injection pumps become erratic in operation at very low flow rates. Pumps should not be set to 
pump at less than 0.003 cu. in. displacement. 
 
4.  Ensure all lubrication tubing is tight and free from leaks. Just because the pump is pumping does 
not mean it is getting to the cylinder or packing. In  cases of apparent lack of lubrication, especially 
on low pressure cylinders, check the internal lubrication piping located inside the gas inlet and discharge piping connections. 
 
6. When using TFE rings and packing in lubricat ed service, black, gummy deposits on pistons, 
heads and valves usually indicate marginal lubrication. 
 
6.  When reducing lubrication rates, after break- in, reduce in small incremental steps, usually not 
more than 5 to 10% at a time. The unit should be allowed to operate a minimum of 3 weeks at the 
reduced rate and then inspected before reducing the rate again. If the cylinder bore, piston rings, 
rods or packing begin to lose their polish or glaz e and are beginning to turn dull, the lubrication 
rate is low and should be increased to the last acceptable rate. 
 
7.  With block lubrication systems, any change in rate affects all points. When attempting to reduce 
rates with a block system, all points lubricated by  the block system must be inspected. To change 
the rate to one point, the block must be changed. 
 
        
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Cylinde r and Packing Lubrication 
2020, Rev. #0 
8.  Excessive lubricati on will not damage a compress or cylinder, but it c an cause packing or valve 
failure. Excessive packing lubrication can result in  what is known as "hydraulicing". It lifts the 
packing off the rod causing blow-by and unequal pressu re distribution across the packing rings. It 
usually results in packing overheating and extruding  (TFE), or turning a blue color (bronze), while 
lubrication appears adequate.  Excessive lubrication can also cause valve failures.  If the valves 
get coated with excessive oil, t he sealing elements can stick causing opening and closing late in 
the operation cycle.  This causes increased im pact stresses on the sealing elements which can 
lead to premature failure. 
 
9.  While this Standard compensates for liquids present in the gas, it is recommended that every 
attempt be made to remove the liquids before the cylinder inlet as they contribute to excessive 
cylinder wear and in many cases cause valve failures. 
 
 
 