Our Infinite Step Control system allows compressor 
capacity to be varied infinitely between 10 and 100 
percent of maximum capacity within a wide 
variety of operating conditions.
siemens-energy.comISC
Infinite Step Control
Your Compressor - Optimized
The ISC is a hydraulically-
actuated unloader system. 
It provides infinitely 
variable capacity control 
for process reciprocating 
compressors and precise 
torque control for integral 
gas engines. The ISC is also 
capable of startup 
unloading. The original ISC 
was developed more than 50 
years ago our Painted Post facility.  
After various modernizations we now 
offer a cutting-edge product that is 
available as an upgrade or as standard 
equipment on new units.How the ISC System works
The ISC control panel receives a capacity, torque, or pressure 
set-point signal from a local control source or a DCS. Using 
this input, the ISC generates an unloader timing signal that is 
then distributed to the ISC unloaders, holding the suction 
valves open for a precise portion of the compression stroke. 
This process delays the beginning of compression in the 
cylinder, thereby reducing compressor capacity. Because the 
width of timing pulse can be modulated, the capacity 
reduction is variable.

Economical
• Paybacks < 1 year are possible
• Energy OPEX savings
• May qualify for government incentives
Reliable
• 50 years of ISC experience
• Proven OEM design
• Extensive service center networkAdaptable
• Easily integrated with existing controls
•  Can be installed on a wide variety of  
compressors
•  Helps meet a variety of operating  
conditions and services
Sustainable
• Minimizes wasted compression
• Reduces environmental impact
• Maximizes engine efficiency
• Reduces total cost of ownership (TCO)
To incorporate this state-of-the-art capacity control  
technology into your reciprocating compressor,  
please contact us today.WORKCyl.
Pressur eCylinder F ully Loaded
ODC Piston Stroke CDCCyl.
Pressur eCylinder  P artially Unloaded b y ISC
ODC Piston Stroke CDCWORK
ISCSuction
Dischar ge
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transformation of Industry  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of furhter  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owner.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.WORKCyl.
Pressur eCylinder F ully Loaded
ODC Piston Stroke CDCCyl.
Pressur eCylinder  P artially Unloaded b y ISC
ODC Piston Stroke CDCWORK
ISCSuction
Dischar ge
