Upgrade your  
brownfield  
assets through 
electrification
siemens-energy.com
Transform your brownfield asset s
In the face of gl obal environmen tal challenges and  
the relentless quest for efficiency, natural gas faciliti es 
worldwide are re-evaluating their operational and 
environmental footprints. Transform your brownfield assets 
by upgrading your compressors an d legacy drive systems to 
help achieve reduced emissions and lowered costs of your 
operational assets.
End to end solutions boost your efficiency 
output
At Siemens Energy, we offer the total solution to upgrade 
your assets. For  compressor stations that rely on older gas 
turbine mechanical  drives (and where a grid connection is 
available), converting to an elec tric motor drive (e-drive) 
offers several advantages, includi ng lower operational 
expenditures (OPEX), increased op erating flexibility and a 
reduced carbon footprint.
Modifications can be made to the compressor to 
accommodate new flow conditions, i ncluding installation of a 
new rotor and aero dynamic stationari es that feature mo dern, 
high efficiency flow paths. In some instances, the original 
casing, head, beari ng housing and seal  system components 
can be reused to minimize the impact of the piping layout.Embrace the power of electric motors
Transition to electric motors and witness transformation in 
efficiency and cost-effectiveness. With an astonishing efficiency of up to 96%, electric motors outperform gas turbines significantly. In addition, switching to electric motors will lower your operating expenses and maintenance costs.

Benefits
• Maximize y our efficiency and lower your emissions by
revamping your compressor or by replacing your gas or
steam turbine with an electric motor
•
 Lo
wer your operating costs with an upgraded compressor,
reduce your maintenance requirements, costs and outagetime
•
 Exper
ienced compressor experts who support you
with your current needs and can also address futureupgrades and improvements
The journey to enhanced efficiency, reduced emissions, and lower operational costs begins with a single step. Let us guide you through the transition to a more sustainable, flexible, and cost-effective future.Rely on decades of 
compression experience and the depth of our knowledge when your goal is to upgrade 
outdated brownfield equipment, decarbonize your assets, or to improve the efficiency of your compressorHarness renewable energy
Incorporating renewables like solar o r wind into your  
operations is no longer a distant dream. By switching to 
power generated by solar or wind, you can take a giant  
leap towards achieving lower emissions. The future is green, 
and with our soluti ons, your facil ity can lead the way i n 
sustainable operati ons.
Expertise at every step
From techno-economi c studies to the comprehensive 
execution of brown field upgrades, our team is equipped with 
the expertise to bring modern electri cal systems and  
technologies into  the heart of your operations. Whether it’s 
retrofitting compressors, installi ng new piping, integrating 
e-drives, or replac ing gas or steam turbines with electric 
motors, we have the expertise and experience you need to 
upgrade your assets.
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transformation of Industry  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of further  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.