siemens-energy.comIntroducing our enhanced 
compression spare parts kit 
Are you struggling with outdated and poorly designed kit  
boxes that make accessing and managing your parts difficult?
A cutting-edge kit box: unmatched 
convenience, clarity, and durability
Introducing our game-changing "Smart“ Kit Boxes 
Layout – the ultimate solution for efficient organization. 
Gone are the days of endless layers and time-consuming 
maintenance preparation. Experience unparalleled ease 
of access, granting you more time to focus on what 
truly matters. 
 We use a unique approach to Kit Box design that 
considers not only the preservation of parts and ease 
of storage but also the functional usage needs of our 
customers. We have thoughtfully designed the internal 
layout of the Kit Boxes to mirror the assembly steps 
during equipment maintenance, and each part is clearly 
labeled.
 Every Kit Box features a handy QR code Bill of Materials 
(BOM) label, allowing customers to identify the contents 
inside the box without needing to open it. Our Kit Boxes 
are designed for longevity using high-grade materials, 
offering you the durability you deserve.
•  Revolutionary ”Smart“ Kit Box Layout:   
No more layers! Enjoy easy access to your parts anytime.
•  Unprecedented Part Identification:   
Our Kit Boxes are clearly identified with a convenient  
QR code BOM and part label plating.
•  Premium Quality Manufacturing and Materials:  
We have raised the bar with our high-quality 
manufacturing processes and the use of durable 
materials for long-lasting kit boxes 
Improve operational reliability
Build trust and stand out in a competitive market.
Ensuring operational reliability is crucial for our customers‘  
business success. Adopting strategies such as keeping 
critical parts close to critical units can improve unplanned or 
emergency outage management. Proactive maintenance and 
repairs reduce the risk of unexpected downtime, protecting 
the bottom line. Prioritizing operational reliability cultivates 
trust among all stakeholders and provides a competitive 
advantage.
•  Prioritize Safe Operations:  
Proactively prepare for machine maintenance to 
promote a safe operating environment culture.
•   Critical Parts at Your Fingertips:  
Ensure critical parts are readily available and easily 
accessible, allowing for swift and efficient maintenance 
and repairs.
•  Readiness for Unexpected Outages:   
Be prepared to promptly handle and address any  
unexpected outages, minimizing downtime. 
“Our Kit Boxes are clearly 
identified with a convenient QR 
code Bill of Materials and part 
label plating.”
Scan me
“Less downtime, more productivity: Be prepared to  
manage and resolve unexpected outages promptly.”
Improve inventory management
Unlock optimal efficiency with our smart system.
With our smart system, locating parts becomes effortless, 
while the replenishment process supported by Siemens 
Energy ensures reliable restocking and efficient inventory 
management. Reduce outage time
Boost productivity and prevent loss.
Our Kit Box layout is designed with precision and optimized 
to align seamlessly with your machine maintenance process, 
aiming to facilitate smoother operations. Utilizing our 
enhanced box design can prevent the potential of non-
productive time and the loss or damage of crucial parts 
during turnarounds, overhauls, or other maintenance 
activities.  
At Siemens Energy, we are committed to providing  
top-tier service to ensure your operations run smoothly. 
Take the next step and contact your Siemens Energy 
Client Manager or the Global Kit Box Program Manager  
at kitbox.request.cp@siemens-energy.com.
•  Effortless Part Identification:  
Locate parts swiftly with our improved labeling system.
•   Integrated Replenishment Process:  
Restock confidently with Siemens Energy’s backed 
process for efficient inventory management.
•  Enhanced Part Protection:   
We utilize robust materials designed for longevity and 
incorporate industry-leading anti-corrosion solutions to 
enhance the durability of all parts.   •  Reduce Non-Productive Time:  
Cut down on lengthy outage preparation times. Our 
system offers you visibility into the servicing schedule 
of your kit box, ensuring a consistent supply of 
components.
•  Optimized for Machine Maintenance:   
Our box layout is tailored to your maintenance 
process, ensuring easy adaptation and faster repair 
operations.
•  Prevent Loss and Damage:  
Keep track of crucial parts and reduce the chances of 
parts being lost or sustaining damage during crucial, 
time-sensitive turnaround or maintenance periods.

Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transformation of Industry  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of further  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owner.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.