24   •  www.turbomachinerymag.com
Combining 3D laser scanning and generative AI automates 
inspection processes, enhances service quality, and 
expedites equipment overhauls.
BY STEVEN BAIRDDigitally Transforming 
Compressor Inspection  
and RepairCOMPRESSORS
nspection before major compres -
sor repairs and/or overhauls has 
traditionally been tedious and 
time-intensive. The process often entails 
shipping equipment to an OEM service center, 
where technicians can disassemble the unit to 
take precise measurements by hand and visually 
examine components, such as rotors, impellers, 
bearing housings, etc., for wear or damage. 
Over the last decade, 3D laser scanning has 
gained popularity as a tool for streamlining 
inspections by allowing manufacturers to 
rapidly detect material deformities or 
dimensions that are out of tolerance. 
As many companies take the next step in 
the digitalization journey, they are now 
leveraging these capabilities in combination 
with generative artificial intelligence (Gen AI) 
to automate the inspection process further, 
enhance service quality, and expedite 
equipment overhauls. IREAL-TIME DIGITAL INSPECTIONS
3D laser scanning reduces and, in many 
instances, eliminates the need for dimensional 
measurements to be taken manually. While 
this capability alone reduces the technician’s 
workload and provides several advantages in 
terms of component visualization, additional 
steps are often needed to fully utilize the scan 
data being collected. 
Automated inspection scripts customized 
for the specific type and model of machine 
being serviced extract key measurements 
from 3D scans. A scan of a first-stage impeller 
indicates measurements in and out of 
tolerance. 
Measurements from the 3D scan are 
exported to a digital inspection platform for 
disposition, allowing technicians to analyze 
the unit directly from the shop floor in real 
time and eliminating the need for data 
processing offsite. FIGURE 1  is a screenshot from the digital 
inspection platform showing how the scan 
results, along with data from manual procedures 
such as non-destructive testing (NDT), can be 
used to generate prescriptive repair recommen -
dations using Gen AI. All the information is 
mapped to enterprise resource planning (ERP) 
and product lifecycle management (PLM) 
systems, which allows sales and repair personnel 
to provide faster and more accurate responses to 
customers on lead times and costs. 
The entire process aims to reduce human 
error, improve repair consistency across service 
centers, and expedite compressor overhauls. 
These efforts have already yielded positive 
results. For many components, the time it takes 
to inspect, analyze, and determine necessary 
repairs has been reduced by more than 50%. 
USING GEN AI FOR SEMANTIC SEARCH 
Gen AI can also be valuable as a semantic 
search tool. Particularly for legacy product 
Turbomachinery International  •  January/February 2025  •  25
EXTENDING DIGITALIZATION  
TO THE FIELD
Extending digital inspection activities like 3D 
laser scanning to the field also benefits 
customers by enabling granular data collec -
tion and providing greater flexibility and 
adaptability in project execution. It may be 
possible to perform all work onsite for certain 
inspection activities, avoiding the need to ship 
machines or components to service centers. 
Field scanning can even help address 
problems beyond the scope of compressor 
repair. In one example, a plant operator 
evaluated the drain line redesign during a 
compressor removal. Technicians scanned the 
existing configuration and quickly created a 
new piping isometric that eliminated the need 
to perform tack welds onsite.  
In a separate field application, the operator 
was concerned about the bedplate leveling of 
their motor-driven compressor. Onsite 
scanning revealed that the motor, gearbox, and 
compressor pedestals were out of tolerance. 
Measurements from the scan were then 
provided to the customer to remedy the issue. 
Laser scanning can be used to virtually 
assemble compressor components before 
physical assembly. Piecing digital scans 
together ensures that any potential fitment or 
interference issues are identified early on. 
Precision machining can occur before 
reassembly so that delays during the compres -
sor overhaul or plant turnaround are avoided. For example, digital preassembly and 
reassembly of a steam turbine spare rotor 
allowed a service center to ship components to 
an offsite machine shop on Day 2 of the 
turnaround. Had scanning not been used, this 
likely would have occurred on Day 7 or 8. 
CHANGING THE STATUS QUO
Minimizing the duration of planned and 
unplanned outages remains a priority for 
process plant operators as they seek to 
improve margins and extend the useful life of 
their facilities. 3D laser scanning supports 
these goals by enhancing the speed and 
efficiency of inspections. Now, with Gen AI, 
compressor OEMs can take the next step by 
further automating the repair process and 
unlocking new capabilities that have previ -
ously not been possible. 
As these technologies continue to advance, 
they will eventually become the standard for 
inspection and repair, generating tangible 
value for both manufacturers and their 
customers through lower costs, improved 
repair consistency, and shorter equipment 
overhauls.  
Steven Baird is the Head of Repair 
Technology in Compression at  
Siemens Energy.
FIGURE 1: Digital inspection platform showing AI-generated repair summary from 3D laser scan 
and NDT results.
lines, it is not uncommon for personnel to 
spend significant time searching old documen -
tation and databases to find answers to 
questions. In some cases, employees who 
served as subject matter experts on a 
particular part or product line in the past have 
retired, leaving knowledge gaps that can 
hinder the repair process.   
Virtual repair engineers, i.e., chatbots 
built using Gen AI, can help solve this problem 
by quickly retrieving and contextualizing 
information from internal service and product 
documentation. Large language models (LLMs) 
can return much more accurate and relevant 
results to user queries than a traditional 
keyword search. 
When a virtual repair engineer is 
presented with a query about the type of 
coating that can be used to repair a damaged 
journal bearing, the chatbot returns the 
relevant inspection requirements, coating 
restrictions, repair options, and even 
recommended next steps.  
Using laser scanning to inspect  
a large open-faced impeller.