The Rotating Olefins Cracker (ROC), jointly 
developed by Siemens Energy and Technip 
Energies, introduces a brand-new approach  
to olefins production. 
It replaces the conventional cracking furnace with a novel 
type of turbomachine, capable of producing the high 
temperatures required for the pyrolysis reactions directly 
within the process fluid, through the process of a shock wave. 
The heating is very rapid and applied directly to the feedstock 
without heat transfer.
The ROC turbomachine supports driver flexibility, and when 
driven by electric-powered motors or hydrogen-fired gas 
turbines, this technology unlocks multiple pathways to 
decarbonize the process used to produce light olefins.Key benefits:
• Lower GHG Emissions
   Rotating machinery can utilize carbon-free energy (e-drive 
or H2 GT drive); potentially eliminating all CO2 emissions 
for a fully electrified plant
• Yield
  – Near-instant heating
  – Ultra low residence time
  – Better cracking selectivity
• Coking
  – No surface heat exchange (no radiant coils)
  – Minimum potential to form carbon deposits
• Size
    Compact turbomachinery, heat input not constrained by 
exchanger surface area
• Scale-up
    Technology inherently capable of high throughput, 2x flow 
<< 2x size, uses proven range of electric motor drivers for 
commercial scale units.siemens-energy.comRotating Olefins 
Cracker (ROC)
A novel, game-changing approach to  
decarbonize the olefin production process
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transformation of Industry  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA
@Siemens Energy 2025  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of further  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owners.Modular design:
The ROC machinery is much smaller than the radiant section 
of a conventional furnace, allowing the unit to be much 
more compact. It can be supplied in modules and adapted to 
various site footprints. The quench and feed heating exchangers are conventional
but can be replaced by Technip Energies’ patented gas/gas 
primary quench exchanger to reduce the electricity and
steam consumption in the feed and dilution steam heating 
duty by 20-25%. Finally, the turbomachinery based solution
scales up well, doubling output for much less than double the 
equipment size.
How it works:
Shock wave heating turbomachinery
Static diffuser decelerates flow back to 
subsonic (shock wave)
Kinetic energy
Thermal energy
Driver
(e.g. electric 
motor)
 No fuel combustion
 High temperature
 Direct heating
 Energy-dense
 Highly scalableProcess flowRotating stages accelerate
flow to supersonic
Mechanical work
Kinetic energy
For further information, please contact Siemens Energy or our 
Cooperation Partner, Technip Energies.