GEAFOL® cast-resin 
transformers – resistant 
to overvoltage by design
ABSTRACT
Safe, reliable, and eco-friendly: GEAFOL®  
cast-resin transformers from Siemens 
Energy have been providing a wide 
range of customer benefits since the 
product launch in 1966. The combi -
nation of cast-resin transformers and 
vacuum circuit breakers (VCB) has 
been used successfully for more than 30 years in industry and utility service. 
Switching tests with more than 500 
switching-off operations with different 
configurations, carried out in the last 
few years, assessed the transient be -
haviour of vacuum circuit breakers with 
Siemens Energy's cast-resin transform -
ers under real installation conditions. 
The results show overvoltage factors 
far below critical values and confirm the safe usage of vacuum circuit break -
ers with Siemens Energy’s GEAFOL® 
cast-resin transformers.
KEYWORDS 
dry-type transformer, vacuum circuit 
breaker, switching transients, GEAFOL, 
Siemens Energy
TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Special Edition: Dry-type Transformers  |  2021SOLID INSULATION
48    
Extremely safe, reliable 
in operation and 
environmentally compatible 
– Siemens Energy cast-resin 
transformers provide great 
customer benefits
Distribution transformers are mainly 
used where electricity needs to be trans -
formed from the medium voltage level 
down to low voltage, or to another incom -
ing grid voltage level. Unlike traditional 
fluid-immersed transformers, cast-resin 
transformers operate with high-voltage 
windings fully encapsulated in cast-resin 
insulation, instead of transformer oil or 
other liquid insulating materials, which 
makes a tank with insulating and cooling 
liquid unnecessary. Thanks to this appar -
ently simple idea, the technology has been 
successful since its market launch in 1966. 
The percentage of cast-resin transformers, 
compared with traditional, oil-immersed 
distribution transformers, continues to 
grow worldwide – with good reason, as 
they offer characteristic benefits.
T o avoid long low-voltage cable routes 
that increase transmission losses, trans -
formers are usually installed near the elec -
trical loads. This almost always means in 
areas frequented by people, which is why 
transformers must operate extremely 
safely and reliably. This applies as much 
to high-rise buildings, hospitals, data cen -
tres, metro stations, ships, and oil rigs as it 
does to paper mills, rolling mills, airports, 
and other infrastructure with high power 
requirements. In addition, transformers 
often operate near passers-by and resi -
dents, only separated from their immedi -
ate surroundings by the wall of a second -
ary unit substation or transfer substation or by a metal housing. That’ s why safety is 
everyone’ s top priority.
Dry-type cast-resin transformers provide 
a particular degree of safety in operation, 
especially due to their electrical strength 
and excellent fire behaviour – they are 
flame resistant and self-extinguishing. 
At the same time these transformers are 
eco-friendly and virtually completely re -
cyclable, which makes them the perfect 
choice for areas where environmental 
protection is required. There are practical -
ly no restrictions on the place of installa -
tion of cast-resin transformers.
Siemens Energy cast-resin transformers 
are virtually maintenance-free and their 
high overload capacity ensures maximum 
reliability. Given appropriately high-qual -
ity standards in development, design, 
engineering, and production, GEAFOL tests, the GEAFOL transformers are evalu -
ated for vibration resistance, lightning im -
pulse withstand capability, and short-cir -
cuit strength. This ensures the constantly 
high quality of the transformers.
GEAFOL cast-resin 
transformers from Siemens 
Energy – technology makes 
the difference
Extremely high requirements on trans -
formers for operational reliability and 
availability need to be met in various ap -
plications, e.g., when supplying electricity 
to critical and industrial infrastructures 
and data centres. This requires the high -
est quality standards in development and 
production design, as well as a great deal 
of expertise and experience. The same at -
tention needs to be paid to the selection 
of materials and their precise processing 
to the structural implementation of high 
dielectric and mechanical strength. The 
superb quality is reflected in an excellent 
meantime between failure value  (MTBF).
Siemens Energy has the necessary 
experience, having already installed 
more than 150,000 GEAFOL cast-res -
in transformers worldwide. Over the 
past five decades alone, the weight of 
the GEAFOL transformers has been 
reduced by more than one-third, with 
no reduction in output range or ad -
verse effects on operational safety and 
reliability.
The core construction of Siemens Ener -
gy’ s GEAFOL transformers utilizes low-
loss electric sheet steel, tailored to meet 
efficiency requirements, and painted to 
prevent corrosion under all conditions. transformers are reliable in operation, 
environmentally compatible, flame-retar -
dant, self-extinguishing, and non-toxic.
The quality of the transformers is constant -
ly monitored by OEM-independent in -
ternational testing institutes. As part of an 
extensive program of numerous complex Siemens Energy has 
the necessary ex-
perience, having al-
ready installed more 
than 150,000 GEAFOL 
cast-resin transform -
ers worldwide
Unlike traditional fluid-immersed transformers, cast-resin transformers 
operate with high-voltage windings fully encapsulated in cast-resin 
insulation, which makes a tank with insulating and cooling liquid 
unnecessary
Dry-type cast-resin transformers provide a particular degree of safety 
in operation, especially due to their electrical strength and excellent fire 
behaviour – they are flame resistant and self-extinguishing
  49         www.transformers-magazine.comAdvertorial
3. The high-voltage coils are vacuum 
casted with a special, proprietary 
cast-resin mixture. The main compo -
nents – epoxy resin and quartz pow -
der – paired with process technology 
at the highest level, give GEAFOL 
transformers their superior electrical 
and mechanical qualities, and suitabil -
ity for the most extreme environments 
and demanding applications, while 
being virtually maintenance-free and 
self-extinguishing.
Over the years, the use of aluminium (and 
copper) foils and strips, insulated with 
high-grade plastic film, has prevailed. This 
technology has moved to the forefront in 
transformer manufacturing because the 
foil windings combine a simple technol -
ogy with high electrical safety. The insu -
lation is exposed to much lower electrical 
stress than in other types of windings.
Whereas turn-to-turn voltages in a con -
ventional round-wire winding can add 
up to twice the interlayer voltage, the 
interlayer voltage of a foil winding never 
exceeds the single voltage per turn. The 
reason is the specific GEAFOL technol -
ogy: all layers uniquely consist of a single 
winding, ensuring excellent power-fre -
quency voltage strength and impulse 
voltage strength, with a very linear lay -
er-to-layer and layer-to-ground voltage 
distribution (see Fig. 2).
Figure 2. Voltage distribution of windings
Turn-to-turn voltages in a conventional round-wire winding can add up 
to twice the interlayer voltage, whereas the interlayer voltage of a foil 
winding never exceeds the single voltage per turn value
Figure 1. GEAFOL with basic componentspre-impregnated insulating sheet, and 
receive a cast-resin finish.
2. The high-voltage windings consist of 
aluminium (or copper) foil windings, 
separated by two layers of insulation 
material. Fig.  1 shows a GEAFOL with all the basic 
components.
1. The low-voltage windings, made of 
continuous aluminium (or copper) 
strips, are permanently bonded with a 
50    SOLID INSULATION
TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Special Edition: Dry-type Transformers  |  2021
This electrical behaviour of the GEAFOL 
has been confirmed by comprehensive 
testing according to IEEE Std C57.12.58. 
Fig.  3 shows the very uniform impulse 
voltage distribution over all sections of a 
high-voltage coil.
Siemens Energy GEAFOL 
cast-resin transformers and 
vacuum circuit breakers – a 
perfect combination
Customers benefit from the linear voltage 
distribution capabilities of a Siemens En -
ergy GEAFOL throughout the prolonged 
lifetime, but especially when surges, 
short-circuits or transient voltages occur, 
the latter being caused by fast switching 
operations with vacuum circuit breakers.
When vacuum circuit breakers were first 
introduced – more than 30 years ago – cases of premature failures associated with 
fast switching transient overvoltages were 
reported. However, Siemens Energy’ s 
GEAFOL transformers have been suc -
cessfully used in combination with this 
technology since the early days. Moreover, 
vacuum circuit breakers have improved 
significantly over the years, generally eas -
ing the stress on transformers in operation 
today.
Nevertheless, multiple tests were conduct -
ed under real installation conditions to 
confirm the empirical evidence of the suc -cessful combination of GEAFOL trans -
formers and vacuum circuit breakers: 
The tests included a multitude of different 
GEAFOL transformers:
• Power ratings (100 kV A–3600 kV A)
• V oltage ratings (13.8 kV–34.5 kV)
• Loading (no-load, full load)
• Power factor (0.8–1)
• V ector groups
• Cable lengths (2.5–300 m)
• V acuum circuit breaker designs
• Opening / closing operation at  
different phase angles.
Figure 3. Impulse voltage distribution to the ground of GEAFOL transformer
Figure 4. Testing setup under no-load conditions
Customers benefit from the linear voltage 
distribution capabilities of a Siemens 
Energy GEAFOL through the prolonged 
lifetime
www.transformers-magazine.com   51         
During more than 500 switching oper -
ations, in which each configuration was 
tested several times, no critical overvolt -
age occurred (see Fig. 6). All the measured 
deflections, converted to their overvolt -
age factor  k, remained well below crit -
ical thresholds, as defined by IEEE Std 
C57.12.01 as the basic insulation level 
(BIL) or by IEC 60076-11 as lightning im -
pulse voltage (LI) (see Fig. 7).
In fact, during the test with the highest 
detected factor k of 1.7 p.u. under no-load 
conditions, the transients occurred only 
for milliseconds during a switching oper -
ation (see Fig. 8). The k value and the tran -
sient duration are well below Siemens En -
ergy’ s routine testing values for freedom 
of partial discharge (see Fig. 9) and show 
impressively the high quality of Siemens 
Energy’ s GEAFOL transformers.
In the switching test under full load, the 
highest k factor recorded was 2.8 p.u. (see 
Fig.  10). This is still far below the design 
Tests under no-load 
conditions showed k 
values and transient 
durations well below 
routine testing values 
for freedom of par-
tial discharge, an im-
pressive proof of high 
quality of Siemens En-
ergy's GEAFOL trans-
formers
Figure 6. Maximum overvoltage factors (k) recorded under no-load conditions* Cable length (see Fig. 4)
Figure 5. Testing environment
Figure 7. Measured overvoltage factors (k) recorded under no-load conditions versus 
converted overvoltage LI / BIL
52    TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Special Edition: Dry-type Transformers  |  2021SOLID INSULATION
*
value for the lightning impulse or basic 
insulation level (LI  /  BIL). Most of the 
switching operations triggered multiple 
reignitions with different repetition fre -
quencies (see Fig.  11), but none of them 
caused any damage to the insulation sys -
tem of the GEAFOL transformer. After 
completing the switching test, every trans -
former again passed the routine test at the 
100 % test level.
Finally, tests were performed to see what 
happens when the GEAFOL transform -
er is switched off during inrush (see 
Fig: 12). This is an operation that is usu -
ally prevented by the setting of the circuit 
 Figure 10. Overvoltage factors (k) recorded under full load conditionsFigure 8. Transients during test with highest k value (no-load conditions)
Figure 9. Siemens Energy’s routine testing values for freedom of partial discharge 
(exceeding IEC and IEEE standard)Most of the switching 
operations under load 
triggered multiple re -
ignitions with different 
repetition frequencies, 
but none of them caused 
any damage to the in-
sulation system of the 
GEAFOL transformer
www.transformers-magazine.com
  53         
breaker. In several switching tests with a 
vacuum circuit breaker combined with 
a GEAFOL transformer under inrush 
conditions with a declining test duration 
from 3 to 0.1 s, it was proven that Siemens 
Energy’ s GEAFOL cast-resin transform -
ers can withstand this kind of switching 
operation. The highest measured over -
voltage factor for inrush switching was 
k  =  1.8  p.u. (see Fig.  13), which is only 
slightly higher than the 1.7 p .u. measured 
in no-load switching and still far below 
critical values.
Siemens Energy’s GEAFOL 
cast-resin transformers – 
always a good choice
All the testing has demonstrated the 
safety and reliability of Siemens Ener -
gy’ s GEAFOL cast-resin transformer 
design. The inherent linear voltage dis -
tribution not only prevents weak spots 
in the turn-to-turn insulation but also 
leads to less voltage stress on the natu -
rally more exposed line-end sections of 
the coil, thus minimizing transient os -
cillations.
In combination with vacuum circuit 
breakers, Siemens Energy’ s GEAFOL 
cast-resin transformers can be oper -
ated without the need for expensive 
RC-snubber circuits. The transformers 
have proven their inherent transient 
voltage withstand capabilities over many 
decades in the field and during compre -
hensive testing. Even when switching 
loads with a power factor (cos φ) equal to 
or above 0.75, no additional measures are 
required (for power factors (cos φ) below 
0.75, surge arresters are recommended).
Covering an output range from 100 kV A 
to 50  MV A, with operating voltages up 
to 66  kV , Siemens Energy’ s cast-resin 
transformers have earned a worldwide 
reputation over the past half-century for 
high efficiency and unsurpassed safety, 
quality, and reliability. They can be uti -
lized universally and globally. Installa -
tion examples include data centres, high-
rise buildings or hospitals, rectifier and 
traction duty, offshore installations and 
vessels, underground mining, renewable 
power, conventional and nuclear power 
plants and many more.
https://siemens-energy.com/geafol
Figure 13. Maximum overvoltage factors (k) recorded during switching during inrushFigure 12. Testing setup switching during inrush
The inherent linear voltage distribution of 
the GEAFOL transformers prevents weak 
spots in the turn-to-turn insulation and 
leads to less voltage stress on the naturally 
more exposed line-end sections of the coil, 
thus minimizing transient oscillations
Figure 11. Multiple reignitions after switch of under load
54    SOLID INSULATION
TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Special Edition: Dry-type Transformers  |  2021