GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GEAFOL - / CARECO - 
Cast-resin Transformer  
Operating Instructions  
 
siemens -energy.com  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 Edition 0 9/2022  
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  2 Copyright: The copyright to these operating instructions is held by Siemens Energy AG.  
These operating instructions must not be wholly or partly reproduced for competitive purposes , used in any unau-
thorized way or made available to third parties without agreement of Siemens Energy AG   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 siemens -energy.com  
   
6 Connecting  
Page  14 
6.1 Connection routing   
6.2 Surface preparation  
6.3 Connection of high voltage (HV)  
6.4 Connection of low voltage (LV)  
6.5 Fastenings  
6.6 Contact pressure  
6.7 Grounding of transformers  
6.8 Temperature monitoring  
6.9 Monitoring devices (Option)  
6.10  Siemens Energy Sensformer® (Option)  
6.11  Fan (Option)  
6.12  Cooler (Option)  
6.13  Change in operating voltage  
   
siemens -energy.com  1 General information and safety notes  
Page  4 
1.1 General information  
1.2 Intended use  
1.3 Obligations of the user  
1.4 The five safety rules  
1.5 Particular types of hazards  
1.6 1.6 Occupational safety and protective  
Equipment  
 
2 Scope  
Page  7 
  
3 Usage  
Page  7 
3.1 Classification in accordance to  
IEC 60076 -11 
  
4 Description   
Page  8 
  
5 Transport, goods receipt, storage  
Page  9 
5.1 Unloading, lifting by crane  
5.2 Transport by road and sea  
5.3 Unloading and lifting with forklift truck  
5.4 Moving, placement  
5.5 Unpacking, examination  
5.6 Storage  
5.7 Lifting the transformer on support plates 
during insertion  (Optional)  
5.8 Data logger of vibrations (Optional)  
5.9 Covers on high -voltage tappings and 
tubes of delta connection  
5.10  Disassembly of delta connections  
5.11  Setting up  
5.12  Minimum clearances  
5.13  Ventilation of the transformer room  7 Commissioning  
Page  20 
  
8 Inspection and cleaning  
Page  20 
  
9 Faults, causes and remedies  
Page  22 
  
10 Recycling and disposal  
Page  24 
  
11 Relevant standards  
Page  24 
 
12 EC declaration of conformity  
Page  25 
 
  
 
  
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  3  
Warning notice system  
This manual contains notices you have to observe in order 
to ensure your personal safety, as well as to prevent dam-
age to property. The notices referring to your personal 
safety are highlighted in the manual by a safety alert sym-
bol, notices referri ng only to property damage have no 
safety alert symbol. These notices shown below are graded 
according to the degree of danger.   
 
  DANGER  
Indicates that death or severe personal injury will 
result if proper precautions are not taken.  
   WARN ING 
Indicates that death or severe personal injury may  
result if proper precautions are not taken  
   CAUTION  
indicates that minor personal injury can result if 
proper precautions are not taken.  
 NOTICE ! 
indicates that property damage can result if proper 
precautions are not taken.  
 
If more than one degree of danger is present, the warning 
notice representing the highest degree of danger will be 
used. A notice warning of injury to persons with a safety alert 
symbol may also include a warning relating to property 
damage . 
Qualified Personnel  
The product/system described in this documentation may be 
operated only by personnel qualified for the specific task in 
accordance with the relevant documentation, in particular its 
warning notices and safety instructions. Qualified personnel 
are those who , based on their training and experience, are 
capable of identifying risks and avoiding potential hazards 
when working with these products/systems . 
 
 
 
  
Proper use of Siemens products  
Note the following : 
 
 WARNING ! 
Siemens Energy products may only be used  for the 
applications described in the catalog and in the relevant 
technical documentation. If products and components from 
other manufacturers are used, these must be recommended 
or approved by Siemens Energy. Proper transport, storage, 
installation, asse mbly, commissioning, operation and 
maintenance are required to ensure that the products 
operate safely and without any problems. The permissible 
ambient conditions must be complied with. The information 
in the relevant documentation must be observed . 
Disclaimer of Liability   
We have reviewed the contents of this publication to ensure 
consistency with the product described.  
Since variance cannot be precluded entirely, we cannot 
guarantee full consistency. However, the information in this 
publication is reviewed regularly and any necessary 
corrections are included in subsequent editions . 
  

GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  4 
 General information and  
safety notes  
1.1 General information  
 Note  
Siemens Energy AG does not accept any liability for 
damage and failures that result from  the non -ob-
servance of these operating instructions.  
 
These operating instructions are part of the transformer 
delivery. Store the operating instructions near the 
transformer. Please read the operating instructions prior to 
handling the transformer and observe the information they 
contain. This is how you ensure safe and disturbance -free 
function . 
 Note  
In addition to these operating instructions, special 
contractual agreements and technical documentation 
apply to a special transformer d esign and the associ-
ated supplementary equipment.  
Please refer to the other operating instructions supplied 
with the product . 
 
The described transformers correspond to the state -of-the-art 
at the time these operating instructions were printed.  
Siemens Energy AG reserves the right to change individual 
components and accessory parts in the interest of further 
development. The chang es serve to improve the 
performance and safety. The significant features are 
retained. The operating instructions are always being 
updated with new contents . 
The latest versions of the operating instructions, the 
declaration of incorporation and the declar ations of 
conformity are available in electronic form in the  
Online Support  
(https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -
transmission/transformers/geafol -
transformers.html#Downloads)  
If you have any technical questions, please contact  
Technical Support  
(kirchheim -sck.energy@siemens -energy.com ) 
or the local contact addresses on the back of this manual . 
 1.2 Intended use  
The transformers described in these operating instructions 
have been designed for stationary use in general engineering 
applications.  
Unless otherwise agreed, the transformers have been 
designed for use in plants and equ ipment in industrial 
environments.  
The transformers have been built based on state -of-the-art 
technology and are shipped in an operationally reliable 
condition. Changes made by users could affect this 
operational reliability and are forbidden.  
The transfor mer have been designed solely for the 
application described in the IEC 60076 -11. Do not operate 
the transformer outside the specified power limit. Other 
operating conditions must be contractually agreed . 
 
1.3 Obligations of the user  
The company operating the u nit must ensure that all persons 
assigned to work on the transformer have read and 
understood these operating instructions and that they 
comply with them in all points in order to:  
• Eliminate the risk to life and limb of users and others  
• Ensure the operat ional safety of the transformer.  
• Avoid disruptions and environmental damage 
through incorrect use . 
Comply with the following safety instructions : 
Shut down the transformer and disconnect the power before 
you carry out any work on them.  
Make sure that the transformer cannot be turned on 
accidentally, e.g. lock the key -operated switch. Place a 
warning notice at the drive connection point which clearly 
indicates that work is in progress on the transformer.   
Carry out all work with great care and with due regard to 
"safety".  
For all work, carefully comply with the relevant regulations 
for work safety and environmental protection.  
Comply with the instructions on the rating plates and 
warning plates attached t o the transformer. The rating plates 
and warning plates must be always kept free from paint and 
dirt. Replace any missing rating or warning plates.  
In the event of unexpected changes during operation, switch 
off the drive unit immediately.  
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  5 Take appropria te protective measures to prevent accidental 
contact.  
Take appropriate protective measures to prevent accidental 
contact with parts and equipment that heat up to over +70 
°C.  
When removing protective equipment, keep fasteners in a 
safe place. Re -attach re moved protective equipment before 
commissioning.  
Do not place any objects on the transformer.  
Do not carry out any welding work on the transformer. Do 
not use the transformer as a grounding point for welding 
work.  
Carry out equipotential bonding in accord ance with 
applicable regulations and directives by electrotechnology 
specialists.  
Comply with the permissible tightening torque of the 
fastening bolts.  
Replace damaged bolts with new bolts of the same type and 
strength class.  
Siemens Energy AG accepts t he warranty only for original 
spare parts.  
The manufacturer who installs the transformer in a plant 
must include the regulations contained in the operating 
instructions in its own operating instructions . 
Do not step on the transformer, the fans or the del ta 
connection tubes  
If you have any questions, please contact the manufacturer's 
factory (See back of these  operating  instructions).  
 1.4 The five safety rules  
For your own personal safety and to prevent material 
damage when carrying out any work, always observe the 
safety -relevant instructions and the following five safety 
rules according to  
EN 50110 -1 Working in a voltage -free state. Apply the five 
safety rule s in the sequence stated before starting work . 
 
After the work has been completed, undo the measures 
taken in the reverse order.  
 
 
  
Five safety rules  : 
1. Disconnect. Also disconnect the auxiliary 
circuits, for example the anti -condensation 
heating  
2. Secure against reconnection  
3. Verify  absence of operating voltage  
4. Ground and short circuit  
5. Cover or safeguard neighboring live parts 
Teile abdecken oder abschranken  
 
 
 
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  6 1.5 Particular types  of hazards  
 DANGER ! 
 High Voltage ! 
Do not approach the transformer or re-
move protective covers until the trans-
former is de -energized . 
 WARNING!  
 
 Extreme surface temperatures ! 
Hot surfaces over +55 °C pose a burn 
risk.  
Measure the surface temperature be-
fore working on the transformer.  
Do not touch the transformer as long 
as the surface temperature is not be-
low +55°C.  
 WARNING!  
 Sharp edges and corners ! 
General risk of injury by sharp edges 
and corners . 
 WARNING!  
 Falling ! 
General risk of injury by falls.  
Use only self -locking climbing assis-
tance  
 WARNING ! 
 Magneti c field ! 
The transformer generates a magnetic 
field.  
People with pacemakers must stay at 
least 3 m away from the transformer  
 
 
 1.6 Occupational safety and 
protective equipment  
 Read operating instructions  
 Wear protecting gloves  
 Wear protecting glasses  
 Wear safety shoes  
 Secure the transformer against being 
switched on again during work!  
 
 
 
  

GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  7 
 Scope   
These operating instructions apply to cast -resin 
transformers in three -phase or single -phase design 
including all special  transformers such as converter and 
starpoint transformers of the series  
GEAFOL / GEAFOL Neo; Typ 4G…   and  
CARECO / CARECO Neo; Typ 4G…  
Rating plate  
On the transformer and the housing (if any) is a rating 
plate with the nominal values and define operating condi-
tions.  
 
 Usage  
Unless otherwise agreed, the transformers are desig ned in 
accordance with the applicable standards for the following 
cooling air values : 
• 40° Celsius at any given time  
• 30° Celsius monthly average of the hottest month  
• 20° Celsius yearly average  
GEAFOL -/CARECO -transformers intended for installation at 
altitudes over 1,000 m above sea level are identified as 
such on the rating plate, which cites the maximum permis-
sible installation elevation . 
 
3.1 Classification in accordance 
to IEC 60076 -11 
 
GEAFOL -/CARECO transformers fulfil the classes def ined in 
EC 60076 -11:  
 
Environmental class  
GEAFOL/CARECO : Standard E2 - Frequent condensation or 
light pollution or combination of both  
GEAFOL NEO /CARECO NEO:  Standard E3 - 
Frequent condensation or heavy soiling, even both at the 
same time. (E3 for wind t urbines on request.)  
 
Fire behaviour class F1  
The characteristics of the transformer limit the risk of fire.   
Climatic class   
The following climate classes are available for  
GEAFOL/CARECO transformers:  
Climatic class  Temperature for  
Transport and 
storage  Operation  
 C2* to -25°C to -25°C 
 C3**  to -40°C  to -25°C 
 C4 to -50°C  to -40°C  
*)   Standard for CARECO -transformers  
**) Standard for GEAFOL -transformers  
For lower ambient temperatures, external preheating 
equipment must be installed on site.  
 
Corrosion protection  
The c orrosion protection is available in accordance  to  
ISO 12944  based on the customer's specification in  
C2H (e.g. interior, rural areas) , or 
C4H (e.g. industrial atmosphere. coastal) , or  
C5H (e.g.  aggressive atmosphere, offshore) executed , or  
CX (extreme) in agreement with customer.  
 
Frequency of energization  
The frequency of energization on is limited to max. 3 times 
a day, max. 50 times a year, unless otherwise agreed . 
 
Load  dump conditions for machine transformers  
Max. Voltage rise at load dump 140% of Unenn for max. 5 
seconds.  
 
Operating conditions  
The requirements at the installation site according to IEC 
60076 -11, chap. 4.2 must be observed, in particular with 
regard to g rounding of transformers  
• Protection of the transformer against overvoltages  
• Load current harmonic content  
• Symmetry of three -phase supply voltages  
• Environmental conditions concerning biological envi-
ronmental conditions, chemically active substances, 
mechanically active substances, mechanical conditions  
 
Regenerative mode  
CAUTION ! 
The transformer may only be used in regenerative mode 
(Step -up) with an appropriate protective device.  
  
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  8 
 Description  
 
1 Low -voltage terminals  
2 Lifting lugs  
3 Lashing l ugs 
4 High -voltage terminals  
5 Delta connection  
6 Grounding screw  
7 Lower core frame  
8 Wheels, can be turned 90°  
9 Pulling lugs  
10 High -voltage tappings  
11 (these may also be on the low -
voltage terminal side)  
12 Casted high -voltage winding  
13 Connection for temperature 
monitoring system  
14 Upper core frame  
15 Low -voltage winding  
 
Core  
Only grain -oriented, cold -rolled sheets insulated on both 
sides are used for the iron core. The leg and yoke cross -sec-
tions are staggered with different lamination widths. The 
outer legs have miter joints. Legs and yokes are connected 
by 45° cuts, and the middle leg with a pointed miter joint 
at the yoke junction . 
 
Windings  
The high -voltage coils are made of aluminum or copper 
foils and high -quality insulating films. Each phase winding 
is formed from several separate coils connected in series; 
these are encapsulated in resin under vacuum. The 
winding ends and tappings are rou ted to threaded bushes 
and are encapsulated with the remainder of the winding.  
The low -voltage coils are made of aluminum/copper strips 
and resin -impregnated insulating film (prepreg).   
 
 
 
 
Insulation  
The insulation structure is dimensioned on the basis of the 
impulse voltage distribution. It ensures freedom from par-
tial discharge up to twice the rated voltage, as well as ther-
mal and mechanical strength . 
Supports  
A clamping arrangement designed specifically  for the char-
acteristics of the strip/foil windings and the flexible bracing 
of the coils ensure both high short -circuit strength and a 
very low noise level . 
 
 

GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  9 
 Transport, goods receipt, 
storage  
5.1 Unloading, lifting by crane  
GEAFOL/CARECO transformers must be lifted by the lifting 
lugs provided on the upper core frames (Fig. 5.1). The 
transformer must be lifted and transported with four indi-
vidual chain strands in the correct angle.  
The instructions on the labbels at the lifting lugs must be 
observed (see Fig. 5.2, 5.3). If the transformer is delivered 
with the housing fully assembled, the relevant information 
on the housing must be observed  
 
CAUTION!  
Do not push or pull on the high -voltage windings or their 
connecting tubes . 
 
5.2 Transport by road and sea  
The transformer is designed for accelerations of 10 m/s2 or 
1.0 g in all directions during transport. For this purpose , 
the transformer must be fixed as described below.  
 
To fix the transformer on the loading area, use an anti -slip 
mat or fix the transformer at the crossbar on the floor of 
the loading area. Tension belts must then be attached to 
the lashing eyes of the up per press frame from the inside 
(see Fig. 5 -4). 
 
The tensioning straps must not be in contact with the win-
dings of the transformer or the rejections. When 
tightening the tensioning straps, make sure that the ten-
sion is appl ied evenly to the opposite tensioning straps.  
 
 
CAUTION!  
Pulling on the tensioning straps from one side can gene-
rate a permanent skewing of the transformer!  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Fig. 5 -2: Correct lifting of transform er  
Fig. 5 -3: Not correct lifting  
Fig. 5 -1: lifting lugs for crane hook with 
labbel  
Bild 5-4: Verzurren des Transformators  Fig. 5 -4: Lashing the transformer to the 
loading area  
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  10 5.3 Unloading and lifting with 
forklift truck  
When using a forklift truck, insert the forks into the trans-
port bridges of the transformer . 
 NOTICE ! 
If signs prohibiting  transport by forklift are at-
tached near the bottom of the transformer, trans-
port of the transformer by forklift is absolutely 
prohibited ! 
Forklift transports are only permitted if the transporter 
ensures that  
• the transformer is moved horizontally (Fig. 5 -5) 
• the transformer is adequately secured against the risk 
of tipping and/or falling and  
• damage to the iron core between the core frames and 
any attached accessories like fans or grounding 
switches is reliably prevented . 
5.4 Moving, placem ent 
If a transformer is moved on its transport wheels, the pul-
ling lugs in the lower core frames are to be used as points 
of application (see figure 5.6).  
The drawbar between the towing vehicle and the transfor-
mer must be mounted as horizontally as possib le (see fi-
gure 5.7).  
 
 WARNING ! 
Do not pull the drawbar eyes jerkily or from above. (Danger 
of tipping over)  
 
 WARNING ! 
The centre  of gravity of the transformer is in the upper 
half. Make sure that you transport the transformer horizon-
tally . 
 
 WARNING ! 
Moving the transformer on the transport wheels is only 
permitted on a firm, level surface . 
 
NOTICE : 
Moving the transformer on the tr ansport rollers is permit-
ted up to max. 50 m  
5.5 Unpacking, examination  
GEAFOL -/CARECO -transformers should be unloaded and 
unpacked in a sheltered area and inspected immediately 
for trans -portation  damage. Any visible damage must be 
noted in the transport papers and confirmed by the deliv-
erer. The sender must be informed immediately so that a 
suitable claims settlement procedure can be initiated, if  
  
necessary with the participation of the transpo rt insurance 
company.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6 Storage  
If the transformer is not commissioned immediately it must 
be stored in a sheltered area that is dry and protected from 
sunlight.  
The transformer must be packed in a protective film when 
being tr ansported on -site or being stored temporarily. This 
effectively prevents the ingress of dust and foreign matter. 
In order to prevent condensation from forming, an ade-
quate quantity of desiccant agent (such as silica gel) must 
be enclosed in the packaging .  
Fig. 5-5: Horizontal transportation of trans-
former by forklift  
Fig. 5-7: Pulling of transform er with transport w heels  
 
Fig. 5-6: Pulling lugs in lower core f rame  
 
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  11 5.7 Lifting the transformer on support 
plates during insertion  (Optional)  
 
For slight lifting of the transformer, support plates are  
optionally attached to the side of the base frame (See Fig 
5-8) 
 
   DANGER!  
Do not lift the transformer only at one support plate!  
 
   DANGER!  
Do not work under transformer as long as lifting rams  
are under load!  
 
The l ifting is performed simultaneously on all support 
plates in small steps. The lifting jacks  can be underlaid 
with hardwood to distribute the pressure on  the base and 
reduce the lifting distance (See Fig 5 -8). After lifting, the 
transformer frame is secured by a temporary stable sub-
structure, e.g. with hardwood, and lowered onto it. This re-
duces risks due to failure of a lifting jack. 
 
After the relevant m easure has been carried out, e.g. in-
stallation of an insulating mat or removal of rollers, the 
temporary substructure must be removed and the lifting 
jacks  lowered evenly.  
 
. 
 
5.8 Data logger of vibrations (Optional)  
At the customer's request or as specified by Siemens En-
ergy, transformers are equipped with data logger sensors 
for continuous recording of vibrations. These sensors are 
activated  
before transport. During the entire transport route, the 
data logger record s the occurring shocks and vibrations. 
The  
recorded data can be read out and transmitted wirelessly.  
Details can be found in the barcode on the product.  
 
The data logger is located on the frame of the  
transformer (see Fig. 5 -9) 
 
In the event of transpor t damage, Siemens Energy can re-
quest the customer to transmit the data from the data log-
ger.  
customer.  
 
The data logger can be sent back to Siemens Energy for re-
use.  
Siemens Energy for reuse (for address see  
Back page of this manual)   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Fig 5-8: Lifting of transformer at support plates  
Fig  5-9: Data logger of vibrations  
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  12 Figure 5 -12: Detect the end position 
of the cover by feeling of the screw  5.9 Covers on high -voltage 
tappings and tubes of delta 
connection  
Transformers  of the serie GEAFOL -/CARECO COMPACT  for 
may have covers on the high voltage tappings and the 
tubes of the delta connection (See Figure 5.8) These co-
vers are essential parts of the insulation system.  
The transformer may only be operated if these covers are 
correctly installed.  
Damaged covers  must be replaced BEFORE switching on 
the transformer . A modification of the covers is not permit-
ted !  
 
 WARNING!  
Switching on the transformer with missing or damaged 
electrical insulation covers may destroy the transformer .  
 
5.10 Disassembly of delta 
connections  
 WARNING ! 
Disassembly and fitting of the delta connections is the re-
sponsibility of the customer !  
 
When installing the transformer in confined spaces, it may 
be necessary to dismantle the delta connections.  
If there are covers at the ends of  the switch tubes, open 
the cable ties with a spanner and carefully pull the cover 
off the screw connection . 
Mark the screws and switch tubes with the relevant instal-
lation position BEFORE dismantling the switch tubes !  
 
 WARNING !  
Tightening the screws o f the delta connections with too 
low torque or mixing up the screws of can lead to serious 
damage to the transformer!  
 
 WARNING!  
Incorrect assembly of the delta can cause a serious damage 
to the transformer when switching on.  
 
CAUTION !  
The screws for fixing the switch tubes may have different 
lengths. Mixing up the screws can result in the torque be-
ing achieved without the switch tubes being pressed 
against the contact surfaces . 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Figure 5 -11: Position of the washers at 
the delta connection Anschluss  Figure 5 -10: Covers on high -voltage tap-
pings  and tubes of delta connection  

GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  13 Fig. 5-13 Position of color marking  
on clamp after tightening  
The arrangement of the switch tubes and washers is 
shown in Fig. 5 -9. All six screws of the switch tubes must 
then be tightened with a torque wrench (torque for M10 
with 45 Nm, for M12 with 75 Nm).  
If there are covers on the switch tubes, push the cover 
onto the connection cone until the screw of the contact 
connection can be felt through the cover (see Fig. 5.10). 
Position the clamp and tighten t he hexagon of the clamp 
until the front edge of the white marking on the band is 
flush with the body of the clamp (See Figure 5.11)  
5.11 Setting up  
 DANGER ! 
Cast -resin tran sformers are not safe to touch. The power 
must be shut off before work is performed on the 
transformers. Applicable regulations must be observed.  
 
The transformer must be positioned on a stable, level sur-
face.  
 
GEAFOL -/CARECO -transformers should be installed only in 
a sheltered area or cell that is dry and protected from 
sunlight, where the degree of protection assured is at least 
IP 20. If appropriately coated with special paint and if an 
outdoor housing is used , they are also suitable for 
installation outdoors (minimum IP 23).  
 
GEAFO /CARECO L transformers need an adequate supply of 
fresh air to dissipate the heat loss. Approximately 200 m3 
of fresh air per hour and for each kW of heat loss is the 
recommended val ue; more information can be found in 
the GEAFOL Planning Guidelines . 
5.12 Minimum clearances  
Make sure that the clearances from the surface of the cast -
resin coils to the walls, busbars, grounded parts, and other 
elements satisfy the applicable installation and safety regu-
lations  
(see Table 5 -1 and Fig. 5 -14).  
For installation above 1000 m abov e sea level, the mini-
mum distances according to Table 5 -1 shall be increased by 
one percent for every 100 metres of altitude by which the 
installation altitude exceeds 1000 m .  
  Maxi-
mum 
voltage 
for 
equip-
ment 
Um1)  Rated lightning 
impulse with-
stand  
voltage ULI1) 
(See type plate)  Minimum clearances  
(see Fig 5.10)  
[kV] [kV] a** 
[mm]  b** 
[mm]  c** 
[mm]  d***  
12 75 120 * 55  
24 95 160 * 85 
24 125 220 * 105 
36 145 270 * 125 
36 170 320 * 170 
52 250 480 * 300 
72,5  325 630 * 450 
1) see IEC 60071  
*  If there are high -voltage tappings on this side, the 
value in column a applies to the clearance b; other-
wise, the value in column c applies.  
** Distance from blank, energized parts to walls or OS 
cables. For transformers with complete insulation at 
connection bars and switch tubes (bottom and top), 
the values of dimension c are to be used for the 
minimum distances of dimension a.  
*** The distance d between the delta conn ections is de-
fined constructively by the manufacturer  
 
Table 5 -1 
Fig. 5 -14: Minimum clearances around GEAFOL cast -resin 
transformers with bar e tappings and delta connection 
tubes  
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  14 5.13 Ventilation of the 
transformer room  
Every transformer has heat loss occurs during the opera-
tion. This heat must be dissipated from the transformer 
room.  
A good cooling effect is achieved if the cooling air flows in 
at the bottom of the room and flows out at the top of the 
room  
(see Fig. 5 -15). 
The cooling type is shown on the nameplate. The code of 
the cooling type is shown in Table 5 -2. 
Note:  
A transformer designed up to a defined rated power with 
natural ventilati on cooling, and for a higher rated power 
with forced cooling, is marked with ON/AF.   
 
CAUTION ! 
Operate the transformer at least with the type of cooling 
specified on the nameplate.  
 
Make sure that the ventilation ducts are not covered. If the 
supply air is heavily polluted, it must be filtered.  
 
Make sure that there is no condensation above the trans-
former that steadily drips into the transformer.  
 
If the transformer is regularly switched off for several days, 
make sure that no condensation occurs during this time.  
 
This prompts the transformer to become dirty.  
If the cooling effect is too low, a ventilation system can be 
retrofitted.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The transformer must be positioned on a stable, level sur-
face.   Fig. 5 -15: Ventilation of transformer room  
  Symbol  
Cooling medium  Air A 
Water  W 
Type of circulation  Natural  N 
Forced  F 
Table 5 -2: Symbols of cooling method  

GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  15 
 Connecting   
CAUTION!  
When connecting the transformer, do not climb onto the 
delta connection,  overvoltage connections, busbars or in-
sulators!  
 
CAUTION ! 
Metallic objects in the coils can destroy the transformer!  
The coils must be covered during connecti ng 
6.1 Connection routing  
GEAFOL/CARECO transformers allow many connection 
combinations, both from above and below.  
 
When connecting cables are use, make sure that they fea-
ture adequate strain relief and are routed so that the volt-
age clearances are maintained in line with relevant regula-
tions   
(see Fig. 6.1 , 6.2 ). The minimum clearances for cable con-
nections shown in Table 5.1 must be observed .  
6.2 Connection of high voltage  
On the high -voltage side, the transformer is connected to 
the surfaces of the delta connecting tubes o r the terminals 
provided on the casted delta connection bar, or to the cast -
on post insulators on the high -voltage pottings (Y connec-
tion).  
 
CAUTION!  
For transformers with covers on the upper connections of 
the high voltage (see chap. 5.8), the HV must be con-
nected always to the lower connections (see fig. 6.3).  
Do not remove the covers !  
 
6.3 A Connection of low voltage  
On the low -voltage side, the transformer is connected to 
the aluminum terminals provided for this purpose. Here 
again it must be ensured whe n connecting cables, that 
they feature adequate strain relief to avoid undue mechan-
ical stress at the terminals. The following guidelines must 
be observed when connecting the transformer terminals 
via expansion straps.  
 
If the low -voltage connection is est ablished with busbars, 
an expansion strap (flexible connection element) must be 
installed between the transformer and the busbars. This 
keeps mechanical stresses away from the transformer (see 
Fig. 6 -4) and largely prevents transmission of structure -
borne transformer noise. Detailed information on bolted busbar connections can be found in DIN 43673.  
 
 
Bild 6-1: Nicht auf Schaltrohre , Stromschienen oder Isolatoren steigen!  
.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 6 -2: Connection CGEAFOL/CARRECO - 
transformers  from below  
 
 
  
Fig. 6-1: Example of connection  
 
Fig 6 -3: Connection GEAFOL/CARRCEO 
COMPACT from top  (Standard design)  
Fig. 6-4: Low -voltage end connection with expansion 
strapp  
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  16 6.4 Surface preparation  
Before making any bolted or terminal connections, it is 
necessary to remove the thin, invisible layer of oxide, 
which is a poor conductor of electricity, from the alumi-
num surface. Therefore, the contact surfaces to the cus-
tomer connections must be made metallically bright. Every 
time a point of contact is opened, the aluminum contact 
surface must be subjected to the full preparation process 
again before it is bolted back together.  
If the transformer is installed indoors in a room where con-
densation is expected, or where corrosive gases are pre-
sent, and if the transformer will be connected to copper 
busbars, an aluminum sheet that is copper plated on one 
side (the product known by the  trade name “Cupal”, for ex-
ample), must be inserted between Cu -Al contact points.  
 
The aluminum side is in contact with the aluminum 
terminal. All edges of this sheet must protrude several 
millimeters to ensure that any corrosion occurring in the 
transitio n area remains outside the contact zone. Corrosion 
can be avoided for the most part by applying a protective 
coating to the cut edges of this Cupal sheet.  
 
Tin-plated terminals can be combined with bare aluminum, 
copper or silver -plated surfaces .  
6.5 Fasteni ngs 
Corrosion -proof parts must be used for bolted connections. 
Bolts in strength class 8.8 or 10.9 should be used. In order 
to transmit the bolting force to the largest possible contact 
surface, stiffened washers should be inserted under the 
bolt head and the nut. Spring elements are also necessary 
to resiliently accommodate heat -generated tension, to 
compensate for plastic defor mation and maintain the re-
quired minimum contact pressure at all times.  
Both conditions can be met by conical spring washers per  
DIN 6796, which are used in particular for conductor bar 
threaded fastenings . 
6.6 Contact pressure  
The bolts should be tightened with a torque wrench. This 
ensures that the bolt connections are made with adequate 
contact pressure . 
To compensate for any settling in the joints, it’s advisable 
to retighten the bolts after a few hours. However, the 
torque then applied should n ot be greater than the torque 
applied in the initial installation . 
For tightening the non -greased (dry) screw connections, 
we recommend using the tightening torques given in table 
6-2 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Fig. 6-5: Transformer connection with cable lu g 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bolt Torque [Nm] dry  
M 6 10 
M 8 20 
M 10  45 
M 12  75 
M 16  140 Fig. 6 -6: Low voltage connection with expansion strap  
 
 
Table 6 -1: Tightening torque values for the phase connections 
and tappings  
 
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  17 6.7 Grounding of transformers  
Make sure that the necessary ground ing connection is in-
stalled on accessories that are cone cted  to the transformer 
after installation. Transformer hou sings must also be 
grounded in accordance with the known grounding specifi-
cations.  
The g rounding screws are located on the front  sides of the 
lower press frame (see Fig. 6. 7). A PE  wiring  must be con-
nected here at one position. The dimensioning  of the PE 
wiring  is defined  by specific regulations at the installation 
site.  
For transformers with housing, corresponding grounding 
connections are located on the outside of the housing . 
6.8 Temperature monitoring  
The measuring sensors in the temperature monitoring sys-
tem record the winding temperature. This acts as overload 
protection against excessive heat generation in the trans-
former windings . 
The temperature monitoring system consists of PTC ther-
mistors, according to DIN 44082 or resistance thermome-
ters (PT100) in accordance with IEC 60751, and the associ-
ated monitoring devices.  
The terminal box, the connection diagram of the tempera-
ture monitoring and the specification of the limit tempera-
tures are located on the upper press frame as standard 
(Fig. 6 -8). 
The temperature values for the warning, alarm triggering 
or fan control functions must be set on the triggering de-
vice or monitoring system . 
6.9 Monitoring devices (Option)  
For the activation of error messages on the basis of the 
sensor signals, different triggering devices are offered for 
GEAFOL/CARERCO transformers, depending on the type 
and number of sensors.  
For transformers with housings as part of the scope of sup-
ply, the tripping devices are located in the control cabinet 
of the housing.  
Information for connection and operation of the monitor-
ing devices can be found in the respective operating in-
structions.  
Test the function of the triggering devices during  
commissioning . 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 -8: Terminal box, connection diagram and limit tem-
peratures on upper press frame (EXAMPLE)  
Fig. 6 -9: Display of monitoring device (EXAMPLE)  Fig.  6 -7: Grounding connection  

GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  18 6.10 Siemens Sensformer® 
(Option)  
The Sensformer is used for digital transmission of the 
measurement data in real time. By means of an app, an 
overview of the status of the individual transformers be-
comes possible. Likewise, a push message can be sent in 
the event of an error message.  
The connection of the sensor transforme r is located in the 
box on the front side of the upper press frame or in the 
control cabinet of the housing.  I 
 
nformation  on connection and operation is available for 
you at https://www.siemens -energy.com/sensformer.  
6.11 Fan (Option )  
 DANGER!  
Disconnect the fans from the power supply before starting 
work on the transformer!  
 
Caution!  
Do not block the rotors of the fan while working on the  
transformer. This can lead to the damage of the fan.   
 
NOTICE!  
Do not step on fans or fan housing !  
 
 
A control unit is required for temperature -dependent 
switching on of the fans ( AN/AF operating mode). Switch-
ing on and off is carried out via an adjustable time or tem-
perature in the monitoring unit.  
Depending on the type , the fan is already connected to a 
monitoring  device or is intended for the connection to a 
control device provided by the custom er. 
The connections of the fan are located on the fan motor of 
the individual fan on the bottom side of the transformer  
(Fig. 6.12)  or below the middle fan.  
 
• Pay attention to the correct voltage and frequency of 
the fan 
• Connect the fan acco rding to the operating instruc-
tions of the fan.  
• During commissioning, check the function of all fans   
• Ensure that the fans are rotating in the correct direc-
tion  
 
 
Notice:  
On delivery, the default setting of the monitoring system 
types T154 and NT935 includes a functional test for fans. If 
run in the factory default setting, every 96 hours the fans 
will undergo a short test lasting 5 –10 minutes.  
 
 
   
Fig. 6-12: Power connection of fan  
Fig. 6-10: Sensformer box  Fig. 6-11: Sensformer app  

GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  19 6.12 Modification of high voltage 
tappings  
By changing the position of the connecting brackets at the 
high -voltage coils, the voltage of the transformer can be 
changed according to the rating plate (Fig 6.1 3) 
The numbering of the taps is explained on a label on the 
upper core frame of the transformer (Fig. 6.1 4) 
 
 WARNING ! 
The connecting brackets may only be reconnected when 
the device is deenergized.  
 
CAUTION!  
Operating the transforme r with a voltage that does not 
correspond to the position of the switching jumpers on the 
top voltage taps may cause damage to the transformer.  
 
NOTICE ! 
The change in voltage can destroy connected components.  
All connecting brackets at the HV windings must be fixed 
at the same voltage tapping . 
 
NOTICE ! 
Different positions of the connecting brackets on the indi-
vidual coils can destro y the transformer.  
After reattaching, the screws of the connecting brackets 
must be tightened to the torque shown on the label (Fig. 
6.14) 
Cover on taps of connection bar  
To remove the vacuum under the cover, press the silicone 
cap toward the inside with the fingers.  
 
If there are covers on taps, these must be re -assembled af-
ter the intervention (Fig. 6.1 5). 
 
Clean the sealing surfaces before reassembling.  
Make sure that there is no consensual water  in the  
Cover  at assembly.  
 
Turn the nuts onto the threaded pins by hand until the nut 
rests on the cover. Use a wrench and turn the nut 1 1/4 
turn .  
  
Fig. 6-13: Operating voltage on the rat-
ing plate depending on the position of 
the connecting brackets (SAMPLE)  
Fig. 6-14: Information label on the trans-
former regarding numbering and tightening 
torque of the taps (SAMPLE)  
Fig. 6-15: Cover  type A  on taps 
of Connec tion bar   
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  20  
 Commissioning  
The transformer must have been cleaned and it should not 
contain any foreign objec ts (see also Install, page 7).  
• Compare the technical data on the rating plate 
attached to the transformer to the customer’s 
requirements.  
• Tighten all contact connections to the torque stated in 
Table 6. 1. 
NOTICE!  
If the ambient conditions are outside the transformer 
specification (e.g. ambient temperature too low), the 
appropriate conditions must be established before 
switching on.  
When larger transformers are switched on, in single  cases 
visible sparks may occur on the outside (especially in t he 
area of the core and the clamped parts), but these will 
soon subside.  
This effect occurs for reasons of physics and has no influ-
ence on operating safety; it is not a defect.  
 
CAUTION !  
Due to the low attenuation, it may take the switch -on cur-
rents of GEAFOL cast -resin transformers some time to de-
cay. Refer to the test report for the exact values. This must 
be considered when selecting fuses and/ or relay times.  
 
ATTENTION!  
The level and decay time must be taken into account  when 
selecting the fuses and/or relay times.  
 
If protection settings are incorrect, the transformer will be 
switched off during the transient response of the current. 
This will lead to high excess voltages in the transformer 
windings, where they may cause  damage  in single cases . 
 Inspection and cleaning  
GEAFOL/CARECO transformers are practically maintenance -
free. If they are operated in very dusty installations, for in-
stance in rolling mills, we recommend cleaning several 
times a year. Typically once every  year, the contact bolts, 
warning functions, and the operation of any attached fans 
should be checked.  
The transformer must be switched off on all sides before 
starting maintenance work. All terminals must be short -cir-
cuited and grounded. The safety regul ations must be ob-
served .  
 
 DANGER ! 
Check that the transformer is de -energized before 
approaching the transformer or you do not remove 
protective covers. Secure the transformer against 
unauthorised switching on . 
 
CAUTION ! 
Dust and dirt are the main causes of transformer overheat-
ing and electrical short circuits. Dust deposits lead to 
higher operating temperatures .  
 
CAUTION!  
Make sure that used tools and cleaning equipment are 
completely removed from the transformer again after the 
inspection .  
 
CAUT ION!  
Do not use cleaning equipment with metal brushes. Loose 
metal wires can cause severe damage to the transformer.  
Do not use sharp -edged tools ! 
 
 DANGER ! 
Do not switch on transformer until it is completely dry!  
 
CAUTION!  
The tightening torques on curr ent-carrying components 
may be considerably lower than for steel parts according to 
table 6.1. Please observe the corresponding markings on 
the  
components.  
 
 
Fig. 8 -1: Specification of the torque of a component  
 
 
  

GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  21  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Overview inspection activities  
 
Remedy  Time interval (rec-
ommendation)  Description of the activity  
Visual check  Commissioning  
 
1x per year  • Check for soiling, damage, soot deposits, infestation by animals  
• Checking that the current -carrying connections are free of corrosion  
Cleaning the trans-
former  Commissioning  
 
1x per year/  
In case of in-
creased pollution 
several times a 
year  • Vacuuming of loose particles and dirt in the cooling channels of the 
upper and lower voltage coils with a hoover. Compressed air can also be 
used.  
• Cleaning or hoover the auxiliary equipment such as fans, surge 
arresters, connection terminals and the mounting substructure.  
• Rub down the dirty surfaces of the transformer with a cloth soaked in a 
commercially available surfactant -based cleaner. Then wipe with a dry.  
• Cleaning of auxiliary equipment such as fans, surge arresters, terminals 
and the baseframe.  
• Cleaning the floor  and the wall  around the transformer  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Fig. 8.2:    Fig. 8.3:    Fig. 8.4:  
Blow out co oling channels  Blow off upper yoke   Cleaning upper voltage coil  
Screw connections 
of all electrical con-
nections and earth-
ing at the trans-
former  Every 2 years /  
 • Check the torque of the screw connections of all electrical terminals, the 
high -voltage tappings, and the connections from one system to another 
in the case of double -tier transformer. Values of the torques see chap. 6, 
table 6. 1. 
• Note: When using mechanic al torque wrenches, make sure that the 
tension discs and spring washers are not pressed flat during repeated 
tightening over the years. From the 6rd year, reduce the tightening 
torque by 5 Nm compared to the specification.  
Screw connections 
for electrical cus-
tomer connection  To be defined by 
customer  • The responsibility for the connections made by the customer lies with 
the customer.  
Control of the warn-
ing functions  Commissioning  
 
1x per year and  
after error mes-
sages  • Visually check the clamp connections/ Retighten the screw terminals on 
the transformer and in the control cabinet on the housing (if present)  
• Carry out the function check according to the specifications in the 
operating instructions of the sensor/evaluation unit.  
Fan check (if 
available)  Commissioning  
 
1x per year  • Check attached fans for their function, cleanliness and operating 
properties in accordance with the specific operating instructions  
Table 8 -1 

GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  22 
 Faults, causes and 
remedies  
 DANGER ! 
Check that the transformer is de -energized before ap-
proaching the transformer or you do not remove protec-
tive covers. Secure the transformer against unauthorized 
switching on . 
 
NOTICE ! 
Only qualified personnel may repair faults on the trans-
former.  
 
In the event of faults that cannot be rectified by the cus-
tomer himself, a service cente r of Siemens AG must be 
informed.  
 
Please state the factory number when making enquiries.  
The factory number is indicated on the rating plat e. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Support cast -resin transformers :  
Telefon:  +49 7021 9954 134  
E-mail:  kirchheim -sck.energy@siemens -energy.com  
Webseite:  siemens -energy.com/geafol  
 
 
ATTENTION!  
Return transports of transformers to Siemens Energy 
must  
be carried out in accordance with chapter 5!  
Standard spare parts  
Part designation  Siemens 
Energy  
Kirchheim  
Material -No. 
Temperature sensor PT100  4170004730  
Tripping device MSF 220 K (PTC)  4170010437  
PTC resistor 120° (Fan on)  4102642197  
PTC resistor 140° (Warning winding)  4102642213  
PTC resistor 160° (Alarm fault wind-
ing)  4103946662  
PTC resistor 170° (Alarm Core)  4170020002  
Monitoring device T119 (3xPTC)  4106894836  
Monitoring device T154 (4xPT100)  4170010212  
Monitoring device NT538 
AD(8xPT100)  4170036322  
Monitoring device NT935 AD 
(4xPT100)  4170195860  
Fan switching device VRT600  4170033802  
COMPACT delta connection insulat-
ing cap  4170258641  
Pipe clamp cover COMPACT  4170261722  
Table 9-1 
Fig.. 9.1 : factory number on the rating plate  
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  23   Potential faults  
Faults  Potential causes  Test steps / Remedy  
Transformer too hot, 
Warning / alarm message 
from the temperature 
sensors of coils  Perm anent overload  Check load / load distribution,  
reduce load if necessary  
Screw connections on live parts 
untighten  Tighten Screw connections on energized ter-
minals, torque values see chap. 6, table 6.2  
Bad ventilation, ambient tempera-
ture too high  Check the ventilation ducts on the housing, 
fan and cooler, replace defective component if 
necessary  
Sensor defect  Check the function of the relevant sensor,  
if necessary, replace the sensor  
Transformer too hot, 
Warning / alarm message 
from the temperature 
sensors of core  Permanent overvoltage  Check voltage, reduce voltage if necessary  
 
Check the position of the high voltage tap-
pings (see chapter 6.11)  
Short circuit (triggering a 
monitoring unit)  Inrush current too high  Adjust inrush current  
Dirt Clean the transformer, see chap. 8.  
Humidity too high  Check ventilation, remove water, clear water 
drainage,  
Traces of soot on the 
transformer (Tracking)  Dirt Clean the transformer, see chap. 8, check ven-
tilation  
Screw connections on live parts 
untighten  Check screw connections, see chap. 8.  
Crack / chipped material 
on high voltage coil mit 
soot  Short circuit in coil  Call customer service - Do not switch the 
transformer on again!  
Smell  Evaporation after commissioning  No action - the odor disappears after a few 
hours  
Dirt in the coils or on the core  Clean the transformer, see chap. 8.  
Unusual noises  High voltage too high  Check voltages, if necessary reduce the volt-
age  
Vibration of the housing,  Tigthen  of loose components,  
attach vibration damper if necessary  
Table 9 -2 
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  24 
 Recycling and disposal  
GEAFOL/CARECO - transformers have advantages at the end 
of their life cycle: Without risk to the environment, 94 per-
cent of the material can be recycled.  
Protecting the environment and conserving its resources 
are high priority corporate goals for us. A worldwide envi-
ronmental management system in accordance with ISO 
14001 ensures compliance with the law and sets high 
standards. Environmentally fr iendly design, technical 
safety and health protection are fixed for our products.  
Please observe country -specific laws for the disposal . 
Recyclable materials in components  
Separate the components for recycling according to the 
following categories :  
 
• Electronic scrap, e.g. sensors  
• Ferrous scrap (transformer core, press frame)  
• Aluminum (winding upper and lower voltage coil , bus-
bar) 
• Non -ferrous metals, copper, brass (power lines, leads)  
• Insulating materials (winding of upper and undervolt-
age coil)  
 Relevant standards  
 
  No. Heading  
IEC 60076 -11 Power transformers  
Part 11: Dry -type transformer  
IEC 60076 -1 Power transformers  
Part 1: General  
IEC 60076 -2 Power transformers  
Part 2: Temperature rise for liquid -im-
mersed transformers  
IEC 60076 -3 Power transformers  
Part 3: Insulation levels, dielectric tests and 
external clearances in air  
IEC 60076 -5 Power transformers  
Part 5: Ability to withstand short circuit  
IEC 60076 -10 Power transformers  
Part 10: Determination of sound levels  
IEC 60076 -12 Power transformers  
Part 12: Loading guide for dry -type power 
transformers  
IEC 60076 -16 Power transformers  
Part 16: Transformers for wind turbines  
applications  
IEC 61936 -1 Power installations exceeding 1 kV a.c. –  
Part 1: Common rules  
EN 50708 -2-1 Power transformers - Additional European  
requirements: Part 2 -1 Medium power 
transformer - General requirements  
EN 50708 -3-1 Power transformers - Additional European  
requirements: Part 2 -1 Large power trans-
former - General requirements  
IEC 60721 -3-
4 Classification of environmental conditions - 
Part 3 -4: Classification of groups of envi-
ronmental parameters and their severities  
IEEE Std. 
C57.12.01  Standard General Requirements for Dry -
Type Distribution and Power Transformers  
IEEE Std. 
C57.1 2.91  Standard Test Code for Dry -Type Distribu-
tion and Power Transformers  
Sir W. Siemens Square,  
Frimley, Surrey,  
GU16 8QD, UK  
GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
 © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  25 
 EC declaration of conformity  
 
 
 
 

GEAFOL - / CARECO -Cast -resin Transformer/ Operating Instructions  
Frei verwendbar   © 2020 Siemens Energy  Page  26 
Addresses : 
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Transform er plant  Kirchheim  
Hegelstraße 20  
73230 Kirchheim/Teck, Germany   
Tel. Central : +49 (0) 7021 9322 -0  
Tel. Product Support: +49 7021 9954 134  
E-Mail: kirchheim -sck.energy@siemens -energy.com  
Website: siemens -energy.com/ geafol  
 
Siemens Energy Kft. Transzformátorgyár  
II. Rákóczi Ferenc út 189.  
1214 Budapest, Ungarn  
Tel.: +36 1 471 -1100  
 Siemens Energy Transformadores, S.A. De C.V.  
Carretera Guanajuato -Silao Km. 8  
36250 Guanajuato, GTO, Mexico  
E-Mail: juan.alanis@siemens -energy.com  
Tel: +52 5579559887  
 
Siemens Energy Transformer (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd.  
26, Yongsheng Road, Huangpu District, Guangzhou  
511356, Guangzhou, China  
E-Mail: DTService.STGZ.cn@siemens -energy.com  
Tel: +86 20 62663366  
 
Siemens Energy Brasil Ltda.  
Av. Eng. João Fernandes Gimenes Molina, 1745,  
13213 -080, Jundiaí -SP., Brasil  
Email: posvendasdt.br@siemens -energy.com  
Tel. +55 11 96322 7604  
 
 
 
 
 
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Transmission  
Freyeslebenstr. 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany  
 
For more information, please visit our websit e: 
siemens -energy.com /geafol  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG . 
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance f eatures 
which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further devel opment of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All prod-
uct designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies  whose use by third 
parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.    
   For the U.S. published by  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Transmission  
4601 Six Forks Road  
Raleigh, NC 27609  
USA  