Nuclear plant 
modernization
Options for mature power plants 
in a changing market
Content
Your success is our top priority.
02Generator modernization
Page 12
03Exciter maintenance
Page 15
04Nuclear auxiliary systems
Page 16
05Omnivise T3000 control system
Page 1801Steam turbine modernization
Page 05Modernize your 
nuclear plant
We start where you are.
Modernizing your nuclear power plant may help extend the 
life of the unit and help prepare it to operate reliably for the 
future. Siemens Energy can help update your steam turbi -
ne, generator, exciter, auxiliaries and control system.
Nuclear plant modernization - Unrestricted Information
3 2
Our goal is to provide you with modifications that 
are intended to help improve your mature generat-
ing equipment reliability. Modernization measures 
may help extend the lifespan of steam turbines and 
strengthen competitiveness by improving steam 
turbine efficiency and performance.
A steam turbine modernization typically includes the 
replacement of key components which contribute the 
most to reliability, availability and efficiency such as 
highly loaded rotors, casings, blades, seal elements 
and valves with improved components. A Lifetime 
Assessment (LTA) can be performed for mature units. An LTA requires specific knowledge about the unit 
such as operating regime and service history. This 
helps provide repair and replacement recommenda -
tions to potentially extend the lifetime of a unit or 
specific components and helps in developing tailor-
made and economic modernization measures.01
Steam turbine modernization
Precision engineering, reliable solutions.
Optimize your assets  
and maintain sustainable  
power plant operation.
Figure 1: Section view of a typical modernization solution for nuclear steam turbines (modernized components are highlighted in different colours)
Lifetime extension Highest attainable 
availability and reliabilityTurbine train efficiency 
improvement up to 3%*
Recover efficiency 
losses up to 2%*  
due to degradationLonger inspection 
intervals
Improved resistance to 
erosionPlant output improve -
ment up to 10%*Benefits
*Site specific results may vary
Nuclear plant modernization - Unrestricted Information 5 4
Three-dimensional 
blading
The latest blade path technology incor -
porates three-dimensional blading with 
variable degrees of reaction, also known 
as 3DV™. This technology is intended to 
optimize the blade path using automated 
computational methods and can poten-  
tially add 3%* in efficiency as compared  
to conventional blading.
The Siemens Energy LP rotor incorpo-  
rates high efficiency blading, a monobloc 
rotor and three shrunk-on discs per LP 
flow. The advanced shrink-fit disc design, 
material selection and manufacturing 
process may help to reduce the potential 
for stress-corrosion related cracks of LP 
rotor blade attachment areas.
Low operational stresses at rotor  
blade attachment areas may be  
achieved through:
• Optimized disc geometry
• Compressive stresses introduced  
by heat treatment during manu-  
facturing of the discs
• Steel shot peening of disc  
surface and attachment areas
• Rolling of specialized areasAdvanced low-pressure 
turbine shrink-fit disc  
*Site specific results may vary 7
This configuration is intended to help reduce inlet 
pressure losses and protects the rotor surface from 
moisture, washouts, and temperature changes. 
The high precision of electrical discharge machining 
(EDM) helps maintain a high dimensional accuracy. 
This is a particularly important factor in the mod-  
ernization of saturated steam turbines of nuclear 
units, where the possibilities of adjusting the steam 
flow rate or power by “adjusting“ the thermodynamic 
parameters of fresh steam are limited by  
safety systems.Reactor and/or balance of plant (BoP) optimiza -
tions may help improve the performance and 
the overall efficiency of the entire steam turbine 
train. 
Siemens Energy applies advanced tools such as 
computational fluid dynamic simulations to de -
velop unit specific turbine design and blade path 
geometry to help achieve the maximum power 
plant output.Optimization of 
swallowing capacityDamping elements for LP turbine last stage blade row
The use of damping elements to couple blades 
are integral to potentially reducing vibration and 
improving structural integrity of the LP turbine 
last blade row. 
The damping elements are loosely assembled 
into pockets inside integral bosses on the blade 
airfoils. The blade pockets provide a dissipative 
mechanism and help increase the total amount 
of damping. These damping elements can poten -
tially reduce the vibratory response of the blade 
row.
 Operational experience has shown that this con -
figuration helps improve the robustness of the 
last blade row.
 
Figure 3: Damping elements
High-pressure turbine full 
arc steam inlet ring design 
(diagonal stage)The diagonal stage makes it possible to carry out 
further modernization of the HP turbine in the fu -
ture while potentially increasing the thermal power 
of the reactor to the range of 105%* to 107%* of 
the rated power by only replacing one component, 
the steam inlet ring.
Steam turbine 
modernizations designed 
and validated to meet your 
targets.
Figure 2: Siemens Energy nuclear high-pressure turbine *Site specific results may vary
Nuclear plant modernization - Unrestricted Information
9 8
Measures to adress droplet  
erosion and corrosion
Where applicable, Siemens Energy hardens the leading 
edges of LP turbine last stage blades manufactured 
from steel by laser or flame hardening. This is intended 
to counteract droplet erosion. Where steam moisture 
content is high, stationary blades can be provided with 
suction slots or vane heating in the last stage to help 
reduce the effects of the droplets.
Modernization of high-pressure 
turbine main steam inlet valves
Siemens Energy can optimize valves to allow higher flow 
rates. A turbine main steam inlet valve modernization 
typically includes upgrading key components such as 
highly stressed valve cones, spindles and bushings. 
Nuclear plant modernization - Unrestricted Information
10
FAST WedgeTM 
Siemens Energy has developed and patented the 
FAST WedgeTM retightenable stator wedge system 
for generators with SVPI (Single Vacuum Pressure 
Impregnanted) coils. Implementing FAST WedgeTM 
allows for stator wedge retightening with the 
rotor in place. Intended benefits include:
• Up to 15 days reduction in outage duration
• Eliminate the need to remove the rotor to  
retighten slot wedges
• Improved availability and increase generation 
capacity by reducing outage time over the life 
of the unit
• Potentially prolong life of the stator winding 
with the capability to tighten wedges more 
frequentlyUprates
Plant upgrades often result in more output from 
the steam turbine. Often times this requires 
modernization to the generator and auxiliaries to 
generate additional power. 
Due to the effects of renewable energy on the 
power grid, large generators are sometimes asked 
to alternate between producing and absorbing re -
active power, as well as operating at significantly 
different load levels. 
The electrical and cooling capabilities of the stator 
core, stator windings and rotor can normally be 
modernized to help meet the new power output 
and operational flexibility demands on the plant. 
The applicable auxiliary systems can also be up -
graded to help meet the new demands. RIGI-FLEXTM  stator end-winding design 
The Rigi-FlexTM support structure is axially free, flexible in the tangential direction, and rigid in the ra -
dial direction. The addition of both an inner ring and axially free support ring allow the Rigi-FlexTM to be 
decoupled from the parallel rings. This helps lower the natural frequency of the end-winding basket and 
provide a homogenous stiffness which is intended to prevent the generator end-winding from operating 
close to resonance. Intended benefits include: 
As a generator ages, conditions such as interlaminar 
shorts, hotspots, and looseness have been reported 
on some units. These conditions can potentially 
damage the stator winding, which could result in 
an unplanned outage. For customers planning to 
extend the operation of their generators, replacing the core as part of a rewind can potentially restore 
the wound stator core. Planning for a core replace -
ment with a stator rewinding can help extend the 
generators reliability and minimize the potential of 
an outage extension due to core findings.02
Generator modernization
Designed for maximum performance.
DonutStator coreFrame
Stator core donut technology
The Stator Core In-Situ Replacement technology 
replaces the stator core with the generator in the 
horizontal position by using bonded core packs 
(commonly called “donuts”). Replacing the core as 
part of a rewind can potentially restore the wound 
stator core assembly. This would replace the cur -
rent hand stacked method. Intended benefits of 
replacing the stator core with donuts include:• Reducing core replacement schedule time by  
up to 75%* as compared to hand stacking
• Less frequent retorquing of the stator core due 
to better retention of overall core tightness with 
potential associated cost reductions and in-  
creased availability
• Core geometry and ventilation changes which 
can potentially increase power output capabilityA more robust end-winding 
structure which is less 
sensitive to grid impactsImprovement of end-
winding vibration 
behavior
Reduction of maintenance 
efforts for stator winding
Improved operational 
reliability
*Site specific results may vary 13
Nuclear plant modernization - Unrestricted Information 12
Over time, brushless exciters are subject to thermal, 
electrical, and mechanical stresses, as well as conta -
mination issues. Siemens Energy can test and refur -
bish brushless exciters and their related components.  
For operators requiring faster generator response 
times to grid disturbances, it may be possible to up -
grade their existing brushless exciter to a High Initial 
Response (HIR) system.  This enhancement is in-  
tended to retain the beneficial features of a brush-  
less excitation, while potentially achieving faster  
response times similar to those of the static type.03
Exciter maintenance
Cost effective solutions.
Being in the field of modernizing 
nuclear plants for decades has made  
our specialists experienced in knowing 
the essential requirements relating to  
sustainable power generation.
Improve reliability of 
the exciter
Potentially reduce future 
maintenance efforts
Help avoid the potential for 
exciter replacement and 
associated costs
Reduce potential for 
unscheduled outages 
related to the exciter
15
Nuclear plant modernization - Unrestricted Information 14
Auxiliaries play a crucial role in plant operation. 
Maintaining and upgrading plant auxiliaries may 
increase plant reliability plant help reduce the 
potential of an unplanned outage. Siemens Energy now offers a unit specific Auxil-  
iary Systems assessment intended to provide tai -
lored products and solutions aimed at addressing 
customer feedback/concerns and obsolescence  
to support lifetime extension.04
Nuclear auxiliary systems 
Technology developed for your needs.
EH system
• Variable displacement pumps
• Higher filtration
Lube oil system
• Pump redundancy
• Temperature control valves
• Higher filtration
Gland seal oil system
• Valve upgrade and replacement
Gas skids
• Fully automated fast degas system
• Integrated hydrogen purity monitor
• Dual tower gas dryer
Stator water skid
• Alkalizer for maintaining PH
• Oxygen analyzer
• High-capacity coolers
Seal oil skid
• Seal oil temperature control valve
• Localized control monitoringNew auxiliary systems
Siemens Energy has developed a package 
intended to extend the life expectancy of 
your unit‘s auxiliaries. 
Steam turbine:
• Electrohydraulic (EH) System
• Lube Oil System
• Gland Steam System
• Drain System
Generator:
• Seal Oil System (Double Flow)
• Stator Cooling Water System
• Hydrogen Gas SystemValve condition  
assessments
The focus of the nuclear valve condition 
assessment are units that have been in 
service 40 years or longer that could 
potentially experience degradation of 
components listed below.
Non-Destructive Evaluation (NDE) 
should be performed after 40 years of 
service and then at 10-year intervals. Steam chest & supports
Piping
Actuator Support Towers
Valve Internals and ActuatorsBrief overview
17
Nuclear plant modernization - Unrestricted Information 16
As energy markets change, your I&C system needs to do more and may be required 
to handle distributed sites as well as large centralized power plants. The innovations 
in Omnivise T3000 (formally known as the SPPA-T3000 system) are aimed at making 
improvements that impact the market quickly. 05
Omnivise T3000 Control System
We are ready for complex challanges.
T3000 SCADA
SCADA provides control and efficient 
management of distributed, decen -
tralized power generation in large-
scale distribution grids. Intended 
benefits include:
• Import data from remote units, 
at every production location
• Enable central management of 
remote units
• Perform root cause analysis to 
pinpoint issues
T3000 Cybersecurity
We have developed a comprehen -
sive strategy, which is intended to 
identify vulnerabilities and miscon -
figurations, and remediates them, 
specifically for standard T3000 
plants. Intended benefits include:
• Built-in cybersecurity to protect 
your plant
• Defense-in-depth concept to 
withstand external attacks
• IEC-certified systemT3000 Simulator
Simulator is our fully integrated 
digital process and automation twin 
of Omnivise T3000 and all kinds of 
generation units that rely on T3000. 
Intended benefits include:
• Simulates real plant behavior 
before any change is made
• Enables detailed testing of the 
effects of changes or adjust -
ments in T3000
T3000 Virtual
Through innovative virtualization 
techniques, T3000 can be offered 
virtually. Intended benefits include:
• Improved availability 
• Lower life cycle costs
• Decoupling of hardware and 
software for simplified spare part 
handling and lifecycle manage -
ment
19
Nuclear plant modernization - Unrestricted Information 18
Our References
We have decades of fleet experience and a 
proven track record in successfully performing 
modernization projects for nuclear power plants. 
More than 150 nuclear steam turbine building blocks have been successfully modernized world -
wide. In addition to our own steam turbine fleet, 
we have also conducted modernizations on 
other-OEM steam turbine frames. Trusted expertise and global reach
Related products
To potentially improve the reliability of the  
generator, Siemens Energy offers the Gen-  
AdvisorTM system. 
To potentially improve the reliability of the steam 
turbine, Siemens Energy offers the Blade Health 
Monitoring System. 
For more details please visit our web page: 
Home | Global | Siemens Energy Global
(siemens-energy.com).
Asia
09 Latin America
02Europe61North America82
At Siemens Energy, we prioritize 
a collaborative partnership with 
our customers to tackle mainte -
nance challenges head-on. 
 
By proactively engaging with 
us, we can jointly develop tai -
lored solutions that align with 
your unique circumstances 
and requirements.
Nuclear plant modernization - Unrestricted Information
21 20
Modernize your nuclear power plant to prepare for the increase in  
nuclear energy demand and help minimize unexpected downtime. 
Please do not hesitate to contact your local Siemens Energy 
representative for further information and visit our Customer Energy 
Portal: cep.siemens-energy.com  or our webpage siemens-energy.com .Ready to start?
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 München, Germany
For the US published by
 
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/website
Article No. CB3-24-0007-GN-EN-01
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains 
general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect 
those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development 
of the products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be 
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other 
companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners .