Hydrogen Power Plants Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Hydrogen Power Plants Hydrogen plants for both existing and new build plants Lowering CO₂ by using hydrogen for power generation Siemens Energy provides power plants with advanced gas turbines capable of burning hydrogen up to 100%. Integration of hydrogen into your gas turbine power plant Benefits of integrating hydrogen into your gas turbine operations Decarbonization through hydrogen for electricity generation Electricity production with lower emissions Future proof power plant Calculate your carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) reduction and cost-savings potential by running your aeroderivative, industrial, and heavy-duty gas turbines fully or partially with hydrogen . Try the calculator Getting your plant ready for hydrogen co-firing What are the steps required for introducing hydrogen as a fuel in a natural gas power plant ? Watch the video to learn how to get your plant ready for hydrogen co-firing. Learn more about the CertaLink Energy Certification Our solution for hydrogen power plants Our hydrogen power plants include use cases for newly build as well as existing installations. Our goal is clear: we support our customers with their hydrogen ambitions, whether for existing or new units, and we can help with creating a roadmap to a full hydrogen power station. The hydrogen power plant can be customized to your project-specific needs. The concepts can also be combined with other gas turbine models, depending on the required capacity. New build hydrogen power plants Upgrade for existing plants Power Only Package Power only package The hydrogen power plant includes an H 2 -fired gas turbine (e.g. SGT5-9000HL, SGT-800, or SGT-400) and our Omnivise fleet management system to integrate all components. Explore our selection of heavy-duty, industrial, and aeroderivative gas turbines , each tailored to address specific hydrogen needs. Heavy-duty gas turbines e.g. with a SGT5-9000HL or SGT6-9000HL gas turbine Industrial gas turbines e.g. with a SGT-800 gas turbine Small gas turbines e.g. with a SGT-400 gas turbine Hydrogen Upgrade for existing gas power plants As an OEM for key components, Siemens Energy has the experience, technical domain expertise and standardized approach for co-firing and recommends a collaborative approach to exploring the current capabilities of a facility and establishing a path forward to accomplish optimal hydrogen co-firing milestones . Siemens Energy recommends a plant-specific feasibility study to guide sites towards understanding current capabilities, realistic target setting, hydrogen design package development and establishing a milestone execution plan. The resulting plan will leverage existing technologies and infrastructure to the extent possible to develop and design a package specific to the facility and aligned with the organization’s decarbonization goals. From 0 to 100% hydrogen operation When existing gas turbine plants are made ready for hydrogen co-firing, the facility can be extended to produce and store its own hydrogen using Siemens Energy Elyzers. The below example shows an operational SCC-4000F power plant incrementally moving from 100% methane operation to 100% hydrogen using Elyzer P-300 electrolyzers with storage as shown in the images above. By transforming the conventional power plant into a hydrogen energy plant, the facility is able to leverage cheap renewable energy from the grid and turning that into hydrogen for use when the gas turbine facility is being called upon. This feature brings immediate CO 2 emissions reduction, it saves money on CO 2 taxation and provides an energy storage capability with potential gains from storage credits. Download technical details We also offer solutions for large scale sustainable hydrogen production from water and renewable energy. Learn more Download our hydrogen power plant brochures H2-ready power plant concept An optimized H2-Ready concept can reduce future retrofit costs, while keeping front-end investments low. Download interactive PDF Hydrogen Power Plants - Service and Solutions Serving the entire power generation value chain on your PATH2Decarbonization. Download interactive PDF Download white paper Meeting future energy needs with gas turbine technology Gas turbines are critical for the future energy landscape due to their efficiency and adaptability. Sustainable fuels can be utilized, and carbon capture technologies can be combined with them to enhance environmental benefits. Download white paper Preparing gas turbines for the energy transition - with hydrogen There is increasing need, and potential, for hydrogen to decarbonize power generation. In this comprehensive white paper, learn about how Siemens Energy is approaching this unprecendented opportunity, readying gas turbines for the energy transition. Download white paper Media and more Bringing the hydrogen future forward to meet the challenges of today Hydrogen has become an integral part of the energy transformation debate and the path to net-zero carbon. However, much of this debate is framed around the future utilization of green hydrogen in the energy mix for industry, mobility, and power generation. Read more HYFLEXPOWER demonstrates 100% hydrogen operation In a world’s first, SGT-400 powered CHP plant demonstrates viability of on-site integrated power-to-H2-to-power concept. Read more Overcoming technical challenges of hydrogen power plants for the energy transition Transitioning from natural gas to an increasing mix of hydrogen on the pathway to burning 100 percent hydrogen does not come without challenges Read more Would you like to learn more about hydrogen power plants? Get in touch with us For information and questions, our support team is available 24/7 to assist you in English, Spanish, and German. First name Last name Email Phone number Company name Country/region Country/region Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Ascension Island Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius & Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See / Vatican City Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Côte d’Ivoire Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea, Democratic People's Rep Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia/South Sandwich South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St. Barts St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Martin St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Eswatini Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine Union of the Comoros United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay US Minor Outlying Islands USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Job role Job role Corporate Engineering Operations/maintenance Procurement/purchasing Administrative Business development/sales Consulting Finance Human resources IT Legal Marketing Media/communication Product management Production Project management Quality assurance Research/student Sustainability Facility management Investor relations/analyst Other Is your inquiry related to installed equipment? Yes No Industry (Select up to three) Industry (Select up to three) Automotive Banking, financial institutions, and insurances Buildings and construction Cement Ceramic and glass Chemicals Chemicals - biochemicals Chemicals - petrochemicals Chemicals - rubber and plastics Conventional power generation Data center Food and beverage Healthcare Industrial gases and air separation Maritime Mining, metals and minerals Mobility and transport infrastructure Oil and gas downstream Oil and gas midstream Oil and gas upstream Other Power distribution Power transmission Power-to-X and e-fuels Public sector Pulp and paper Renewable power generation Research and education Rubber and plastics Semiconductor Water and wastewater management Please let us know how we can help you Marketing consent I would like to receive marketing information from Siemens Energy based on my personal interests and give my consent as described in detail here. Send Read more 3 min read Leipziger Stadtwerke, Germany: 100% hydrogen-ready CHP plant October 16, 2022 6 min read What the world could learn from Austria’s first hydrogen field tests 3 min read Hydrogen co-firing at Constellation Energy's Hillabee plant: Charting the future of clean energy See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025