With the growing focus on 
sustainability, it is becoming 
increasingly evident that 
the future of natural gas liquefaction is 
electric. e-LNG opens new possibilities 
for decarbonising the liquefaction 
process, while making plant operations 
more efficient, flexible, and reliable. 
The energy efficiency of a typical gas 
turbine-driven main refrigerant 
compression (MRC) train is around 40%, 
whereas electric motor-driven trains 
have up to 95% efficiency. Despite the advantages, developing an e-LNG 
facility’s power supply system presents 
unique technical challenges that are 
somewhat new to developers, given the 
industry’s past reliance on mechanical 
drives. This is particularly the case for 
large capacity plants that require 
complex electrical infrastructure in a 
smaller footprint. 
One specific concern that must be 
addressed very early on is harmonic 
distortions in the electrical system 
caused by the large power loads of the MRC trains and variable speed drives 
(VSDs). Failure to understand the impact 
of transient scenarios and implement 
proper mitigation measures can lead 
to disruptions in the electrical supply 
(whether from the utility or 
self-generated). As a result, utilities 
(i.e., grid operators) require e-LNG 
facilities to adhere to stringent power 
quality and power factor regulations.
Ensuring compliance can be 
challenging, as traditional VAR 
compensation technologies used for Nico Jansen van Rensburg and George Bitar, Siemens Energy, 
provide an overview of the unique challenges of designing electrical 
supply systems for e-LNG plants and outline specific measures for 
addressing harmonic disturbances and ensuring stable power. 

   Reprinted from May 2024power factor correction are bulky, slow to react with limited 
control capability, and expensive to maintain. Newer 
technologies, such as frequency converters, have been used to 
develop modular static synchronous compensator (STATCOM) 
solutions that have a much smaller footprint, can react rapidly 
and precisely to maintain high power factors, and provide 
additional benefits in terms of reliability and lower 
maintenance costs.
Designing electrical supply 
networks for e-LNG plants
The liquefaction process consumes a large amount of energy. 
To liquefy 1 kg of natural gas, around 0.25 kWh of electrical 
power is required. For a 5 million tpy liquefaction facility, this 
translates to roughly 140 MW of power supply (not including grid 
losses). For an 18 million tpy plant, as much as 800 MW could 
be needed. 
While many of the e-LNG plants in operation today are 
supplied by self-generated power using dedicated gas and/or 
steam turbine generators (i.e., microgrids), an increasing 
number of developments are considering grid connections to 
capitalise on clean energy sources, such as wind, solar, hydro, 
and nuclear. Others are considering hybrid designs, using a 
combination of on-site generation and ‘across-the-fence’ power 
from utilities. Hybrid configurations offer the potential for the 
e-LNG facility to export power to the external grid under low 
utilisation conditions.
The type of electrical source and its distance from the plant 
significantly influence the design of the electrical system. In all 
cases, transmission and distribution infrastructure is required to 
feed power from the generation source to the liquefaction plant. This includes transmission lines, step-up and step-down 
distribution transformers, high-voltage switchgear, compensators, 
and remotely monitored and controlled protection devices 
and/or relays. 
Generally speaking, as the power supply increases, so does 
the complexity of the electrical system. It is not uncommon for 
132 kV or higher transmission lines to be used as feeders to 
e-LNG facilities (Figure 2). 
Interactions and feedback from various consumers in the 
system mean that each component must be carefully selected 
and designed to ensure that power remains stable under all 
operating conditions. Maintaining high power quality is critical 
in this regard. Power quality can be affected by various events 
and component behaviour within the distribution network 
(e.g., switching speeds, arc flash and short circuit management 
and protection, lightning, voltage recovery speed, etc.) 
Transient conditions caused by the start-up or shutdown of 
large induction electrical motors and VSDs (with either LCI or VSI 
converters) driving MRC trains can also impact the power quality 
of the supply network. For many e-LNG plants, electrical motors 
(ranging in size from 35 – 85 MW) can represent as much as 90% 
of the plant’s overall electrical demand. The harmonic distortions 
they create upstream and downstream (particularly in the case of 
LCIs) can lead to several undesirable effects, including:
 zOverheating of transformers, motors, and other 
electrical equipment.
 zVoltage distortion, leading to malfunctions in sensitive 
electronic equipment and reduced power quality.
 zResonance in electrical systems, leading to excessive current 
flow and equipment damage.
 zPower losses, leading to reduced efficiency and increased 
energy costs.
 zNon-compliance with power quality standards, resulting in 
potential fines and legal liabilities.
The importance of grid studies and 
dynamic modelling
Harmonics and electrical system stability are issues that the 
LNG industry needs to become more deeply familiar with, 
given its history of mechanically driven MRC trains. As a result, 
stakeholders often tend to view e-LNG development as a simple 
driver swap (i.e., replacing a gas turbine with an electric motor). 
However, the reality is far more complex. 
Performing grid studies and dynamic modelling is crucial to 
predicting how electrical systems will behave under the various 
operating conditions of the e-LNG plant, including during faults 
and transient scenarios. The objective is to develop a digital twin 
of the plant’s electrical infrastructure to be tested and optimised 
before physical implementation. 
Grid studies involve analysing the entire electrical supply 
system – from the generation source to the LNG facility’s point 
of consumption. Studies normally encompass a steady-state 
(i.e., static) analysis of the network and, for complex distribution 
systems like those required for e-LNG plants, dynamic modelling, 
and simulation. 
Static models provide the advantage of being able to rapidly 
develop the guidelines for the design of an electrical system and 
Figure 1.  A typical high-voltage switch-yard.
Figure 2.  Gas insulated switchgear (132 kV).
Reprinted from May 2024    reduce the complexity of the modelling effort. These studies are 
helpful in the early design phases to decide and evaluate the 
basic design requirements needed for the electrical system. For 
grid-connected plants, available power from the utility is a 
limiting factor, as it will dictate the size of the electrical motors 
that can be used. Performing a power flow analysis early on is 
critical in this regard, as it can help with sizing the electrical 
components to ensure adequate current rating and load capacity, 
which affects the facility’s design and cost.
Dynamic modelling can then be used to evaluate the design 
with much more detail and understand the interactions between 
the various components within the electrical network. The 
inherent complexity of creating dynamic models for electrical 
components and configuring models for bespoke developments 
requires time and intensive engineering effort. As a result, 
dynamic modelling is typically only utilised after the basic design 
of the electrical network has been finalised.
Despite the effort involved in dynamic modelling, ensuring 
that the electrical network remains stable and safe under all 
circumstances, both during normal operation and under fault 
conditions, is crucial.
The interactive capability of such models, combined with 
the use of electromagnetic transient simulation engine (or 
EMTDC) analysis, allows for the accurate prediction of 
harmonic disturbances in the plant’s electrical network. 
Electrical providers can then use this information to determine 
mitigation measures to provide stability and maintain 
compliance with grid regulations. 
Options for addressing harmonics
Several options are available for addressing harmonic effects 
in electrical systems. Static var compensators (SVCs) have 
been widely used in industrial applications for reactive power 
compensation, enhancing voltage stability, and mitigating flicker. 
However, when it comes to mitigating harmonics in e-LNG plants, 
SVCs have several disadvantages.
One drawback is the potential of SVCs to alter the system’s 
resonant frequencies. Their integration into an electrical system 
changes the inductive and capacitive balance, inadvertently 
setting the stage for harmonic resonance. This phenomenon can 
amplify certain harmonic frequencies and limit motor operation 
at specific speeds, which is undesirable. The harmonics also pose 
risks to equipment and degrade power quality.
Additionally, addressing harmonics in e-LNG plants often 
requires going beyond the capabilities of SVCs, necessitating the 
deployment of additional filtering solutions, such as passive or 
active harmonic filters. This complicates the harmonic mitigation 
strategy and escalates costs in terms of equipment, footprint, and 
maintenance expenses. As more and more e-LNG facilities are 
planned for offshore installation, the footprint of equipment 
becomes a significant consideration. The requirement for 
supplementary filtering solutions underscores the limitations of 
SVCs in directly confronting harmonic disturbances.
A STATCOM, on the other hand, is a type of reactive power 
compensation device used in electrical power systems to 
regulate voltage and control reactive power. It is a flexible and 
dynamic solution designed to compensate for fluctuations in 
voltage and reactive power caused by varying loads and 
changing system conditions. 
Historically, STATCOMs have been viewed as more 
sophisticated and expensive than traditional solutions like SVCs, 
making them less economically viable, especially for smaller or cost-sensitive applications. In recent years, however, the use of 
new silicon-based VSD technologies, coupled with increased 
modularisation and standardisation, has reduced costs, and 
minimised the complexities associated with bespoke 
developments. 
Modular STATCOM technology is available across the entire 
power range, and is especially advantageous for power 
consumers with ranges between 5 – 30 MW and offers rapid 
reaction times, along with additional benefits in terms of 
reliability and maintenance costs vs SVCs (Figure 3). Until 
recently, very few VAR compensation options were available for 
consumers of this size. Newer STATCOM solutions are especially 
relevant for e-LNG plants with plans or aspirations to harness 
electricity from intermittent sources like wind and solar, as they 
can assist in grid stability. 
With advancements in VFD technology, VSI type/control 
technology is also being considered for large motors (>35 MW) 
to mitigate the adverse impact of harmonics and low power 
factor. Site-specific factors will ultimately dictate the choice of 
technology used to mitigate harmonic effects. In particular, the 
plant’s location, layout, and available footprint must be 
considered and carefully evaluated before selection. 
Conclusion
e-LNG continues to emerge as an attractive solution for 
decarbonising liquefaction and improving the efficiency and 
flexibility of LNG production. Compared to gas turbine-driven 
compression, electrical-driven compression can dramatically 
reduce the amount of energy consumed for each kilogram of 
LNG produced. 
Capturing these benefits, however, requires stakeholders to 
adopt a holistic development approach that focuses on 
optimising the entire electromechanical system. This necessitates 
understanding the complex interactions and feedback between 
the motors and VFDs, and refrigerant compressors. Traditionally, 
the compressor original equipment manufacturers and electrical 
system provider have operated in silos, often with different 
approaches, leading to issues such as lower efficiency, 
unnecessary plant trips, and production downtime. 
Given the complexity of these projects, it is advantageous for 
developers to select partners with the expertise to handle the 
equipment scope for both the compressor design and electrical 
system. Doing so not only minimises interface and execution risk 
but also facilitates the development of a robust 
electromechanical system design capable of ensuring stable 
power during all scenarios, including during steady-state 
operation, start-up/shutdown, and upset events. In all cases, 
project developers should prioritise early engagement with these 
parties, just as with the liquefaction licensor. 
Figure 3.  Example of a modular STATCOM.