Gas Processing & LNG |  SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2020  19      
Making low-emissions LNG a reality
G. SACHERO,  Siemens Energy, Milan, Italy; and J. SCHUBERT,  Siemens Energy, Houston, TexasSPECIAL FOCUS: LNG TECHNOLOGYLast year was a milestone year for 
LNG. In 2019, roughly 40 metric MMtpy 
of additional supply became available, 
and 71 metric MMtpy of new liquefaction 
capacity were announced—both record 
highs. Overall global demand grew by 
12.5% to 359 metric MMtpy. This trend 
is expected to continue, with demand 
projected to double through 2040 as the 
world increasingly shifts to an energy 
system driven by renewable energy and 
lower-carbon feedstocks.1
Despite its growing role in the global 
energy mix, the environmental impact 
associated with bringing natural gas in 
the form of LNG to destination markets 
is being critically examined by activists, 
investors, lenders and regulatory bodies. 
The industry now faces the difficult task 
of reducing emissions and effectively de -
carbonizing LNG production. 
One companya recently entered into 
a formal agreement with a global energy 
leaderb with the hope of achieving this 
goal. As part of the contract, the company 
is conducting studies to evaluate a variety 
of possible liquefaction and power plant 
designs that can be leveraged to develop 
low-emissions LNG facilities. The stud -
ies will also seek novel ways to enhance 
performance in other critical areas, such 
as reliability, maintainability and devel -
opment costs. 
In this article, the authors outline spe -
cific concepts and technologies used in 
the studies and discuss how the industry 
can begin taking a more holistic approach 
to reducing plant emissions. 
Liquefaction facility design.  When it 
comes to optimization efforts in an LNG 
facility, the design of the liquefaction is -
land often garners the most attention 
from owners and developers, and right -
fully so. The process of cooling natural 
gas to –162°C is extremely energy-inten -sive. This process, coupled with the fact 
that most plants are designed to produce 
LNG around the clock, 365 days per year, 
means that even a marginal efficiency 
increase can translate into a substantial 
emissions reduction. 
In recent years, electric motor-driven 
compression trains (i.e., E-LNG) have 
gained traction as a means of reducing 
emissions. E-LNG opens new possibilities 
for controlling the liquefaction process. In 
many instances, it can also offer advantages 
over gas turbines operating in mechanical 
drive configuration with regard to mainte -
nance and availability. The latter can have 
a significant impact on carbon footprint, 
as estimates indicate that anywhere from 
5%–10% of the total emissions from an 
LNG plant are a result of venting/flaring 
that takes place during startup, shutdown 
and system de-inventory. 
As an example, a heavy-duty gas tur -
bine driving an 8-metric-MMtpy com -
pression train has an availability of 95%. 
After 2 yr in operation, anywhere from 
10 d to 3 wk are required for scheduled 
maintenance. Electric drives, on the oth -
er hand, can achieve > 97%–99% avail -
ability. It is not uncommon, in fact, for 
motors as large as 65 MW–75 MW to 
run for more than 5 yr without scheduled 
maintenance.2Even with these advantages, the de -
cision between gas turbine- or electric 
motor-driven refrigeration trains is not 
so simple. A multitude of technologies 
can reduce emissions from gas turbines. 
For instance, many 50-plus-MW turbine 
models now come standard with dry 
low-emission (DLE) combustion sys -
tems, which can reduce carbon monoxide 
(CO) and nitrous oxide (NOx) emissions 
to single-digit ppm levels ( FIG. 1 ). Inlet air 
chilling is another potential option. With 
this technology, air entering the combus -
tor is precooled to a temperature that 
maximizes efficiency and minimizes the 
specific fuel consumption of the turbine. 
These technologies, and others, can 
potentially tip the scale in favor of gas tur -
bine-driven compression trains. Several 
site-specific variables need to be evalu -
ated when determining which rotating 
equipment solution will deliver the lowest 
carbon footprint over the life of the plant. 
Power generation.  In the context of 
decarbonization, one of the most critical 
questions that must be answered when 
evaluating an E-LNG solution is where 
the electricity is being generated. 
An ideal scenario, from an emissions 
perspective (and, in many cases, a CAPEX 
and OPEX perspective), would be for the 
FIG. 1.  A 41-MW, mechanical-drive gas turbine drive for LNG main refrigerant trains and power 
generation producing single-digit NOx emissions.Originally appeared in September/October 2020 , pgs 19-21. Used with permission.
20  SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2020  | GasProcessingNews.com
SPECIAL FOCUS: LNG TECHNOLOGYLNG plant to utilize electricity from a low-
carbon external grid (i.e., combined-cycle 
power plant with integration from renew -
able energy like hydropower, etc.). How -
ever, this is not an option for most existing 
and prospective LNG projects, particular -
ly those located in remote areas. 
In cases where grid connection is not 
feasible, a dedicated onsite power plant 
must be constructed. Gas turbines operat -
ing in open (i.e., simple) cycle configura -
tion have traditionally been the design of 
choice for LNG plants. However, when 
minimizing the emissions profile of the 
facility is a priority, a strong case can be 
made for the implementation of a com -
bined-cycle design. 
A single-shaft industrial gas turbine 
operating in an open-cycle configuration 
has a thermal efficiency of around 25%–
30%, with emissions up to 250 kg CO2/
metric t of LNG produced. A combined-
cycle plant, on the other hand, has an ef -
ficiency of anywhere from 55%–65%. 
Once again, the decision between 
simple cycle vs. combined cycle requires 
the consideration of many factors—for 
example, if waste heat from gas turbine 
exhaust, which would typically go to the heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) 
in the combined-cycle plant, can be bet -
ter utilized to serve some other process 
outside of the power facility. 
CAPEX is another crucial decision 
driver. Generally speaking, the cost to 
build a combined-cycle facility is sub -
stantially higher than a simple-cycle plant 
of similar output. One potential strategy 
for closing this gap is the adoption of 
standards from the utility industry. Many 
LNG facility power plants in operation 
today are based on specifications from 
other oil and gas applications, which are 
not necessarily well aligned with LNG. 
Adoption of utility standards can reduce 
“over-specification” and potentially lower 
power plant CAPEX by as much as 20%. 
In any scenario, the liquefaction facil -
ity should be evaluated in conjunction 
with the power plant. T raditionally, the 
parties involved with the design and en -
gineering of these facilities have oper -
ated in silos, with different mindsets and 
objectives. 
Close collaboration between equip -
ment manufacturers, contractors and 
owners facilitates optimization of the en -
tire plant—for example, by evaluating the 
availability of all required heat and power 
during normal, steady-state operating of 
the LNG facility, as well as during startup, 
shutdown and upset scenarios. The goal 
should be to develop a project-specific 
power solution that delivers the lowest 
emissions profile over the design life. 
Built-in flexibility, which allows for 
the future incorporation of emissions-
reducing technologies, such as carbon 
capture and sequestration (CCS) or con -
version of the plant from a simple-cycle to 
combined-cycle configuration, are other 
aspects that may warrant consideration.  Renewables and energy storage.  In 
cases where plants can tie into an exter -
nal grid that has high penetration from 
renewables, substantial emissions reduc -
tions are possible. However, the problem 
of intermittency still exists. Plant opera -
tors cannot afford to have LNG produc -
tion shut down or temporarily curtailed 
because the wind is not blowing or the 
sun is not shining. These renewables are 
available 2,500 hr/yr, representing just 
30% of the 8,500 hr required for the op -
erating profile of a power plant associated 
with a baseload facility like an LNG plant. 
This has been one of the biggest hurdles 
on the way to bringing clean power to 
continuous process facilities like lique -
faction plants.
Battery storage can offer a solution to 
this problem by allowing plants to adopt 
hybrid power models and create new 
redundancy schemes ( FIG. 2 ). In such 
cases, renewables, like solar photovoltaic 
or wind, are used as a substitution for gas 
consumption (when possible). During 
times of excess electricity production, 
power can be stored in batteries. These 
batteries can provide instantaneous pow -
er to the plant in the event of an external 
grid disruption. This minimizes the need 
for load shedding and reduces the likeli -
hood of having to scale back production 
by bridging the gap between the time 
when the main power is lost and when 
the standby gas turbine starts up. 
Also, batteries potentially can be used 
for backup supply in the event of an out -
age of one or more gas or steam turbines 
in the onsite power plant. This provides 
more flexibility with regard to redun -
dancy philosophies and opens the door 
to potentially employing an n+1 scheme 
instead of an n+2 scheme. In some cases, 
it may be possible to eliminate the need 
for spare gas turbines. 
All scenarios require comprehensive 
energy balance analyses and feasibility 
studies to ensure reliable electricity sup -
ply. Additional studies can ensure that 
power solutions align with the opera -
tor’s objectives concerning cost and plant 
maintainability. 
However, purely from a decarbon -
ization standpoint, the combination of 
conventional power facilities with re -
newable energy sources, coupled with 
the instantaneous response of a bat -
tery energy storage system, represents 
a highly sustainable solution, with an 
emissions profile as low as 6 kg CO2/t of 
FIG. 2.  Battery storage offers a solution to intermittency by allowing plants to adopt hybrid 
power models.
FIG. 3.  Digital solutions help LNG plant 
operators unlock hidden value in data  
to generate efficiency gains, emissions 
reductions and operational cost savings.
Gas Processing & LNG |  SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2020  21      
SPECIAL FOCUS: LNG TECHNOLOGYLNG–190 kg CO2/t of LNG.
Digitalization plays a key role.  While 
the design of the LNG plant plays an inte -
gral role in achieving the lowest possible 
emissions profile, so too does optimizing 
the performance of the facility once it is 
in operation. Digitalization has emerged 
as one of the most effective means of 
achieving this goal and is increasingly be -
ing applied by operators across the indus -
try to improve efficiency and reduce fuel 
consumption incrementally ( FIG. 3 ). 
As previously mentioned, a large por -
tion of emissions from an LNG plant 
occurs during startup, shutdown and de-
inventory. The use of digital technologies 
for monitoring and analysis can contrib -
ute to a reduction in these activities by 
enhancing overall equipment availability 
and optimizing maintenance cycles. 
T oday, a host of technologies exist in 
the available toolbox of an LNG plant—
from advanced data analytics based on 
artificial intelligence (AI), to remote di -
agnostic services (RDS) for gas turbines, 
to full-scale digital twins of compressor 
trains ( FIG. 4 ). When it comes to reduc -
ing emissions, the goal for operators 
should be to apply these solutions in 
ways that allow for harmonization of the 
entire LNG production process.
In E-LNG plants, this means allowing 
electrical infrastructure to “talk” to and 
exchange data with mechanical assets 
and associated automation systems. T ra -
ditionally, these two have been treated as 
separate entities and have required the 
application of standalone point solutions. 
The Hammerfest LNG plant in Nor -
way is a salient example of the benefits 
that can be achieved by bringing these ar -
eas together and employing an integrated 
digital approach to the entire compres -
sion train. Hammerfest was the first LNG 
plant in the world to feature all-electric 
liquefaction trains and holds the record 
for consecutive days in operation for an 
all-electric LNG facility at 218 d. 
For any LNG plant, realizing the full 
potential of digital transformation re -
quires extensive upfront planning. Imple -
menting a “digital roadmap” of sorts can 
help identify long-term opportunities 
and ensure cost-effective deployment of 
digital solutions in the early stages of proj -
ect development. Early engagement also 
makes it easier to implement an effective 
cyber defense strategy, which is vital as 
both the frequency and sophistication of cyberattacks continue to increase.
Driving toward a cleaner future.  The 
global transition toward a lower-carbon en -
ergy system is accelerating. LNG will play a 
key role in driving toward a more sustain -
able future; however, the industry must 
begin to look introspectively at how it can 
decarbonize the natural gas value chain. 
Owners and developers can no longer 
treat emissions reductions as a periphery 
objective. This is particularly the case for 
the new wave of projects set to reach final 
investment decision (FID) through 2025. 
Many of these facilities have expectations 
of being in operation through 2050, and 
the extent to which they can minimize 
their carbon footprint will be a competi -
tive advantage. Stakeholders must also 
consider the strong likelihood of carbon 
taxation and how that will impact overall 
project economics. 
As this article outlined, the quest to 
develop a low-emissions LNG plant is no 
longer a “pipe dream. ” A host of proven 
technologies now exists, along with con -
cepts that can be leveraged to enhance 
sustainability without trading off perfor -
mance in availability, cost or safety. Since 
no two projects are the same, the key is 
determining which combination of tech -
nologies can be applied to deliver maxi -
mum value over the life of a plant. GP
FIG. 4.  LNG compressors are available for the following services: Main refrigeration, boiloff gas, 
end-flash gas, natural gas booster and recycle compressors.
NOTES
 a Siemens Gas and Power
 b T otal
LITERATURE CITED
 1 Royal Dutch Shell, “Shell LNG outlook 2020,” 
February 20, 2020.
 2 Siemens, “Natural gas and LNG E-drive technology,” 
June 2018, online: https://www.cleanenergybc.org/
wp-content/uploads/2015/09/LNG_E-Drive_
T echnology_June2018.pdf
 3 Bailie, B. and M. T . Russell, “How APM in LNG oper -
ations can lower TCO and boost ROI,” Hydrocarbon 
Processing,  July 2018.
GUISEPPE SACHERO  is Vice 
President of Business Development 
and Sales for Siemens Energy LNG 
Industrial Applications Products 
and is responsible for positioning 
the company’s overall portfolio  
for LNG projects globally. He has  
20 yr of experience in oil and gas and has held various 
management positions within Siemens for European 
contractors and strategic accounts. Mr. Sachero 
earned his BS degree in electrical engineering from 
Pavia University and an MBA degree in 2003 from  
the University of Bocconi.
JOEL SCHUBERT  is the Director of 
Business Development LNG, 
Americas, for Siemens Energy 
Industrial Applications business. He 
holds a BS degree in mechanical 
engineering from Rutgers 
University, and has more than 35 yr 
of experience in the oil and gas industry, including 
LNG. Mr. Schubert has extensive expertise in 
centrifugal compressors, gas turbines, steam turbines 
and centrifugal pumps, and more than 25 yr of 
experience in various leadership roles. He is a member 
of the Pipeliners Association of Houston Organization.
Electronic permissions to Siemens Energy from Gas Processing & LNG  magazine  
 September/October 2020 © by Gulf Publishing Company.The described technologies in this article now belong to the Siemens Energy portfolio. 