Siemen s Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG  
 Page  1 of 4 Munich, October 1 4, 2020 
Si
emens Energy to help Total achieve low -
emission goals for largest LNG project in 
Africa  
•The project represents Mozambique’s first onshore LNG
development
•Siemens  Energy  gas turbines will help generate low -emission power
onsite project
CCS JV (a joint venture between Saipem and McDermott) recently selected 
Siemens Energy to s upply emissions-r educing power g eneration e quipment 
and b oil-off gas compressors f or the Mozambique LNG P roject i n the Cabo 
Delgado province on Africa ’s East Coast. The project, led by  TOTAL E&P 
Mozambique Area 1, includes the development of offshore gas fields in 
Mozambique’ s Area 1 and a liquefaction plant with a capacity in excess of 12 
million tons per year. 
As part of the contract, Siemens Energy  will supply six SGT -800 industrial gas 
turbines that will be used for low -emissions onsite power generation. 
With more tha n eight million total fleet operating hours and more than 400 
units sold, the SGT -800 turbine is ideally suited for power generation, 
particularly in LNG applications, where reliability and efficiency are critical. The 
54MW turbine rating selected for this  project has a gross efficiency of 39 Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Janet Ofano  
Phone: +1 803-389-6753 
E-mail:
janet.ofano@siemens.com
Siemens Energy   
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Press release 
Siemens Energy  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by S iemens AG. Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1 
80333 Munich 
Germany 
Page  2 of 4 percent . It is equipped  with a robust, dry low -emission (DLE) combustion 
system that enables world -class emission performance over a wide load range.  
“Mo
zambique LNG is the country ’s first onshore LNG development proj ect and 
will play a key role in meeting the increasing demand for energy in the Asia -
Pacific, Middle East, and Indian sub -continent markets, ” said Thorbjoern Fors, 
Executive Vice President f or Siemens Energy Industrial Applications . “W e look 
forward to helping Total drive toward the lowest possible plant emissions 
profile and contributing to its goal of delivering clean, reliable energy to 
customers across the globe.”  
Siemens Energy will also supply four centrifugal compressors for bo il-off gas 
(BOG) service. A key feature of these compressors is the inlet guide vane (IGV) 
system that allows for optimization of power consumption according to 
changes in operational parameters such as inlet temperature and outlet 
pressure.  
The ga
s turbines are slated for delivery in the second half of 2021 and the first 
half of 2022. The d elivery of the compressors is scheduled for 2021.  
“We’r
e proud to be part of this important project as a supplier of reliable, field -
proven rotating equipment that wi ll help contribute to the long-term economic 
growth of Mozambique and the prosperity of its citizens, ” said Arja Talakar , 
Senior Vice President, Industrial Applications Products for Siemens Energy.  
The eq
uipment order for the Mozambique LNG project comes on the heels of a 
recent agreement between Total and Siemens Energy to advance new concepts 
for low-emissions LNG production. As part of the contract, Siemens  Energy  is 
conducting studies to explore a variety of possible liquefaction and power 
Press release 
Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1 
80333 Munich 
Germany 
Page  3 of 4 generation plant designs, with the goal of decarbonizing LNG facility 
development and operation.  
Above: The SGT -800 gas turbines that will be used for this project are equipped with a robust, dry 
low-emissio n combustion system that enables world- class emission performance over a wide 
load range. 
This press release and a press picture / further material is available at 
https://bit.ly/3lCAOOf   
For further i nformation on Siemens Energy, please see 
www.siemens-e nergy.com  
For further i nformation on boil -off gas compressors,  please see 
https://sie.ag/2mnUNac  
For further i nformation on SGT-8 00 gas turbines,  see https://sie.ag/2Ug43u6  
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
Press release 
Siemens Energy  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by S iemens AG. Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1 
80333 Munich 
Germany 
Page  4 of 4 Siemens Energy  is one of the world’ s leading energy technology companies. The company works 
with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition 
to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens 
Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to 
storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and 
steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and 
transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a 
global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated 
worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 91,000 
people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €29 billion in 
fiscal year 2019. www.siemens -energy.com
. 