Joint press release  
 
Berlin , June 22, 2021  
Press release by Siemens Energy and Symbio Infrastructure  
Symbio Infrastructure taps Siemens Energy 
as technology provider for world’s first 
carbon neutral LNG liquefaction facility and 
natural gas transmission line project  
• Project set to advance energy transformation and sustainable development goals through carbon -
neutral LNG production serviced by a  carbon -neutral  natural gas transmission line  
• Expected to reduce global greenhouse gas e missions by 28 million tons per year: the annual 
equivalent of taking up to 7 million gasoline powered vehicles off the road  
• Siemens Energy and Symbio Infrastructure will also explore a path towards the production of 
green hydrogen as another energy transi tion fuel  
 
Symbio Infrastructure (“Symbio”) and Siemens Energy announced today that they have entered into 
an agreement where by Siemens Energy will provide engineering services, comprehensive lifecycle 
equipment and technology solutions, and further carbon  emission footprint reduction solutions for 
Symbio’s subsidiary GNL Quebec’s carbon -neutral Énergie Saguenay liqu efied natural gas (“LNG”) 
project in Quebec, as well as Symbio’s subsidiary Gazoduq’s carbon -neutral natural gas transmission 
line project betw een Ontario and Quebec.    
 
Énergie Saguenay’s 10.5 MTPA  LNG export facility will be powered by nearby renewable 
hydroelectricity and is expected to set a global standard for carbon -neutral  LNG production .  Fed by 
Gazoduq’s carbon -neutral natural gas transmission line , Énergie Saguenay  plans  to operate  the 
lowest carbon -intensity LNG plant in the world . 
 
Under the agreement, Siemens Energy will provide its portfolio of greener solutions for rotating 
equipment , electrical , and digital infrastructure.  Furthermore, the Parties will work together to Joint press release  

Joint press release  
 
explore green hydrogen development opportunities as a new potential investment initiative to be 
considered by Symbio.   
 
Governments around the world are prioritizing decarbonization and accelerating the energy 
transition to combat global climate change. Symbio and Siemens Energy are aligned in their 
environmental stewardship and commitments to develop innovative infrastructure that helps meet 
these goals.  In addition, Siemens Energy and Symbio envision the alliance aligning with the 
principles included in the March 2021 Energy Partnership between Germany and Canada to 
advance their respective net -zero aspirations.  
 
Jim Illich, Founder, and President of Sym bio Infrastructure said: “From Symbio’s inception, our 
fundamental vision has been to meet the world’s growing energy demand by building electrified, 
carbon -neutral infrastructure that will set new global benchmarks for the energy transition.  We are 
excit ed to collaborate with Siemens Energy, who not only share our vision and ambitions, but 
whose innovative technologies and capabilities will further advance and refine Symbio’s innovative 
projects.”  
 
Tim Holt, member of the Executive Board of Siemens Energ y, said: “We’re proud to support Symbio’s 
carbon -neutral Canadian LNG project powered by hydroelectricity, and Canada’s first carbon -neutral 
natural gas transmission line, while also integrating cutting -edge Siemens Energy solutions and 
technology to reali ze one of the world’s lowest carbon intensity LNG value chains. Siemens Energy 
is also looking forward to furthering our development of a carbon -free hydrogen economy by 
collaborating with Symbio and advancing Germany’s collaboration with Canada.”  
 
 
Contac ts for journalists  
Siemens Energy  
Stacia Licona  
Phone:  + 1 281 -721-3402  
E-mail:  stacia.licona@siemens -energy.com  
 
Symbio Infrastructure  
Communication Team  
E-mail:  media@symbioinfra.com  
 
 
 
Joint press release  
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world . With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siem ens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and gen erated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
Symbio Infrastructure  is a Quebec -based limited partnership backed by ESG -focused global investors. Symbio 
collaborates with its stakeholders and host communities to develop, build, and operate benchmark -setting energy projects 
that leverage cutting -edge technology and artifici al intelligence to promote environmental stewardship locally, while 
helping to reduce GHG emissions and air pollution globally. Symbio has invested in two innovative, carbon -neutral 
companies, namely GNL Quebec Inc and Gazoduq Inc, and is exploring other s olutions to meet global energy needs.  
https://www.symbioinfra.com  
 
 
 