Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , March  29, 2022  
Siemens Energy to power China’s Greater Bay 
Area with low -emission power generation 
technologies  
• 100th  H-class gas turbine sold worldwide  
• Four advanced combined cycle power units support a sustainable energy supply in a major 
economic area   
 
Siemens Energy has recently entered in to agreements separately  with Guangdong Energy Group 
Co., Ltd. and Shenzhen Energy Group Co., Ltd. to deliver a to tal of four H -class combined cycle 
power units to their power plants located in the Guangdong -Hong Kong -Macao Greater Bay Area 
(GBA) in southern China. Upon completion, the new and updated power plants will help meet the 
growing power demand in the region with efficient and future -proof power generation 
technologies. In addition, with the one -hundredth  unit sold, t he projects also mark a milestone in 
the success story of the SGT -8000H gas turbine . 
 
Under the agreement with Guangdong Energy, Siemens Energy will deliver a 675 -MW combined 
cycle power generation unit, including a SGT5 -8000H gas turbine, a steam turbine, two generators 
and related auxiliary equipment, and long -term maintenance service for the plant in Guangzhou 
owned by Guangdong Yuehua P ower Co., Ltd. The existing coal -fired power plant will be 
transformed into a modern, higher -efficiency gas -fired plant , and this will reduc e carbon dioxide 
emission by more than 60  percent . The plant will generate 2.3 billion kilowatt -hours of power 
annua lly and is expected to go into commercial operation in mid -2023.  
 
The agreement with Shenzhen Energy includes supplying three H -class combined cycle power units 
for the Phase II project at Dongbu  power plant and the upgrade project at Mawan power plant . The 
scope includes  three SGT5 -8000H gas turbines, three SST -5000 steam turbines, three SGen5 -
3000W generators , and auxiliary systems. The two projects, both located in Shenzhen, are 
scheduled to go into operation by the end of 2023 and in mid -2024 respectively. The annual total 
power generation of the two plants is expected to exceed six billion kilowatt -hours.  Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
 
“We’re achieving a significant milestone with the one-hundredth  H-class gas turbine sol d,” said 
Karim Amin, Member of the Executive Board of Siemens Energy AG. “We ’re proud to see that our 
strategic partnerships with Guangdong Energy and Shenzhen Energy are now bearing fruit : We’ll be 
working together to make tangible contribution s to the Gr eater Bay Area and the low -carbon 
development of China.”  
 
With a population of over 70 million, t he Guangdong -Hong Kong -Macao Greater Bay Area (GBA)  is 
among the most dynamic regions in China. GBA aims to grow into a global sci -tech innovation 
center and a  role model of sustainable development for the country. In December 2019, Siemens 
Energy and Shenzhen Energy forged a strategic partnership in the areas of R&D  and smart and 
green energy.  
 
With 88 turbines in operation on four continents and over 2.5 mill ion operating hours , the SGT -
8000H is the market leader in its class. Since its launch, the output rating of the gas turbine has 
grown from 375 megawatt s (MW) to 450 MW, with efficiency of over 62 percent in combined cycle 
operation. The turbine’s high com bined cycle efficiency, low NOx emissions , and industry -leading 
operational flexibility  – which includes load -following capability of up to 80 MW/minute  – make the 
turbine ideal for a wide range of applications , from simple cycle peaking and combined heat and 
power (CHP) to baseload power plants. The SGT -8000H is also capable of Hydrogen co -firing, which 
reduces its CO2 emissions even more.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Kerstin Schirmer  
Phone:  +49 (172) 2669588  
E-mail: kerstin.schirmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release  and a press picture  is available at www.siemens -energy.c om/press  
 
For further information on Siemens Energy’s SGT-8000 gas turbine , please see  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -generation/gas -turbines/sgt5 -
8000h.html  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 
50 percent of the portfolio has a lready been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth 
of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologi es from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 
91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €28.5  billion in fiscal year 2021. 
www.siemens -energy.com . 