Jean-Francois Wirrmann > SIEMENS Energy
Abstract
Our corporate public IT domains (like siemens.com) are constantly under cyber-attacks since they are connected to 
the public internet network. In a 2015 survey of 314 organizations operating Industrial Control Systems (ICS) around 
the world, 34 percent of respondents indicated that their systems were breached more than twice in the last 12 
months. 44% of organizations were unable to identify the source of the attack.
Due to low cost Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) and rapid Return Of Investment (ROI), the dig -
italization use cases implementations in the energy sector will on one side increase, but on the other augment the 
cyber-attack surface, and consequently the potential risk level, due to the introduction of new Industrial Internet of 
Things (IIOT) components and edge/cloud AI/ML/5G technologies.
Oil and Gas midstream transmission pipelines will be no exception: they are critical infrastructure and rely upon their 
core Safety Instrumented Systems (SIS) for ultimate business continuity and safety.
Targeting the Operation Technology (OT) environment of energy companies with malware (like Stuxnet Iran, Power 
Grid Ukraine, Triton Saudi Arabia) represents the bleeding edge of nation-state hacking activities. To inflict even 
more destructive damages on opponent’s critical industry some advanced hacker organizations aim to disable safety 
functions on SIS systems, causing potential harm to people’s health, the environment as well as on valuable assets.
This paper presents Siemens view on key cybersecurity defensive mechanisms based on the pipeline control & com -
munications systems defence-in-depth approach, focusing on SIS protection measures, sequence of event (SOE) 
clock synchronization, multi-factor authentication, early-warning cyber intrusion detection and ransomware recovery. 
They all contribute to reliable pipeline operation.
This is a shortened version of the paper. To read the full paper please visit the ptc Paper DatabaseKey cyber-security controls for reliable pipeline operation
Jean-Francois Wirrmann > SIEMENS EnergyKey cyber-security controls for reliable pipeline operation
1. INTRODUCTION
The energy industry has become the second most prone 
to cyber-attacks with nearly three-quarters of U.S. oil & gas 
companies experiencing at least one cyber incident.
 A cyber-attack against the ICS (Industrial Control System) 
of oil and gas pipelines can result in severe consequences 
to human and environmental safety in the form of ruptures, 
explosions, fires, releases, and spills. In addition, disruption 
of service and deliverability can be devastating for key 
infrastructure end users such as power plants, airports or 
national defence.
It is not a matter of if it will fail, but when it will fail. It is 
just a matter of time when some pipeline OT (Operational 
Technology) area/equipment will be compromised.
There is a consensus that 100% OT/ICS security cannot 
be provided, but the security level shall be set such as the 
remaining risk to be at an acceptable level determined by 
each OT asset owner.
2. MAJOR PUBLIC ICS INCIDENTS
ICS systems in critical infrastructure sector like pipelines 
can be a target for attackers, mainly organised as na -
tion-state sponsored groups qualified as APT (Advanced 
persistent Threat). Here is an overview of the yet “publicly 
known” ICS cybersecurity related incidents. For more in -
formation refer to [1][2][3][4][5][6][7][8][9][10][11] 
3. SERVICES AND APPLICA -
TIONS ALONG A PIPELINE
IT security has been devoted for decades to the protection 
of information focusing typically on confidentiality first, then protecting integrity and lastly availability (called CIA 
triad). OT is founded on the reliability and safety of people 
and environment, which can be due to loss or reduction of 
OT Availability or OT Integrity. Selecting the proper type of 
security protection resources depends on the asset OT or 
IT business value, that could harm its Availability, Integ -
rity or Confidentiality. To operate a terrestrial or subsea 
pipeline many control/operational systems are required. 
They are distributed in two information systems domains, 
the Corporate Information System (CIS) and the Industrial 
Information System (IIS). CIS belongs to the generic IT 
domain and IIS to the generic OT domain.
Figure 1 depicts the two domains with their typical services. 
The IIS domain shows the control & communications ap -
plications along a pipeline and how they could be grouped 
depending on their function and the pipeline operation 
entity who will use it. 
Each IIS group gets mapped to a security risk level / profile 
SPi (i=1..3) and if necessary be noted with a redundancy 
requirement (R):
• SP3 :  Safety Critical Elements - SIS and Safety Critical 
Element with Programmable Electronic (SCE-PE) shall 
be classified SP3. (Highest Risk level)
• SP2 : Control Systems - All other systems shall be 
classified SP2. SP2 generally encompasses all SII sys -
tems essential to the production (e.g. PCS, Third party 
process Packages) (Medium Risk level)
• SP1 :   Monitoring Systems - Monitoring systems which 
are not classified as SCE-PE, which are independent 
and have no communications with other SII systems 
with different security profile (although may have hard -
wired interfaces). Lower Risk Level
Table 1: Major Public ICS Incidents
RESEARCH / DEVELOPMENT / TECHNOLOGYPIPELINE TECHNOLOGY JOURNAL  19

4. OBJECTIVES AND DIFFI -
CUL TIES OF AN ICS ATTACK
ICS attacks methodological steps have been described by 
Michael J. Assante and Robert M. Lee from the SANS Insti -
tute in their paper “The Industrial Control System Cyber Kill 
Chain” [12]. The authors state: “Although there are various 
ways to attack an ICS environment, the most common 
methods to achieve functional impact fall into three cate -
gories: loss, denial and manipulation. They include a loss of 
view, denial of view, manipulation of view, denial of control, 
loss of control, manipulation of control, activation of safety, 
denial of safety, manipulation of safety and manipulation 
of sensors and instruments”.
In ICS the manipulation of sensors or the process could 
lead to the failure of safety systems designed of protect 
human life, lead to people injury and create a denial-of-ser -
vice / unavailability one or more pipeline stations. Usu -
ally all stations of a pipeline are equipped with the same 
Instruments/SIS/PCS/SCADA equipment running identical 
software versions. Even if critical pipeline control functions are duplicated for avoiding hardware single failure the ICS 
attacker could apply his exploit to both instances without 
additional effort.
5. POTENTIAL ATTACK VEC -
TORS FOR INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
There are only a handful of vectors/pathways that can be 
used to launch a cyber-attack. The obvious ones are wired 
or wireless communication links. These can be high-band -
width network (LAN or WAN) connections or simple point-
to-point ‘serial’ links with another system/device. These 
can also be temporary links such as using a dial-in/out 
modem and phone line to temporary links such as using a 
dial-in/out modem and phone line to connect to another 
system/device (or the Internet itself.). Sometimes you have 
pathways that you don’t realize: a cell phone with a “hot 
spot” provides a path to the Internet for a laptop equipped 
with Wi-Fi capabilities. Wireless connectivity comes in 
many forms today: laptop PCs with integral Wi-Fi and Blue -
tooth adapters. USB adapters that add Bluetooth or Wi-Fi 
capabilities to any computer. Cell phones that support 
Figure 1: Oil & Gas pipeline applications overview
RESEARCH / DEVELOPMENT / TECHNOLOGY20 PIPELINE TECHNOLOGY JOURNAL

‘tethering’.  A rogue AP attached to an internal network. 
Cyber-attacks can be launched locally if the attacker has 
physical access to the computer or system. Cyber-attacks 
can also be initiated using infected computer-readable 
media or by connecting an infected device to a computer/
system. Malware has been spread through network-con -
nected shared peripherals such as a network printer or 
copy centre.
An obvious attack path for a system is any communication 
interface (wired and/or wireless) that connects that system 
to other systems or devices. But the path too often over -
looked, or underestimated, is the oldest one: Sneakernet. 
That is the transfer of electronic information by physically 
moving media such as magnetic tape, floppy disks, optical 
discs, USB flash drives or external hard drives between 
computers, rather than transmitting it over a computer 
network
An attack vector that has come to the attention of cyber 
security professionals in the past few years is what is 
collectively known as the “supply chain” which is a general 
term for malicious activities in the design, construction 
or on-going support of your systems. If an attacker is 
completely rebuffed by your physical and cyber- security 
measures, and willing to invest in a longer-term attack 
strategy, then your vendors could be used to attack your 
critical systems.
Typical attack vectors along a pipeline linear multi-site 
network topology could be: 
• inter-site fibre optic or radio tap-in, 
• physical access to unmanned facilities like a Block 
Valve station:
• Example 1 :  access physically a Block Valve Sta -
tion which can be monitored by CCTV IP cameras, 
insert in the middle, and then pivot to the SCADA 
domain
• Example 2 : penetrate inside the automation room 
of the block valve station, connect to network 
ports to start reconnaissance.
6. UNDERSTANDING THE ADVER -
SARY´S ICS CYBER-ATTACK CAMPAIGN
The kill chain is a military concept to model the structure of 
an attack: identification of the target, deployment of forces 
towards the target, confirmation of the order of attack and, 
finally, destruction of the target. Lockheed Martin has tran -
scribed this concept to information security called Cyber 
Kill Chain 7 (CKC7). It includes seven steps: Reconnais -
sance, Weaponization, Delivery, Exploitation, Installation, 
Command & Control and Actions on Objective [12].
At the end of year 2015, the SANS Institute describes the 
CKC7 model as not directly applicable to ICS cyber-attacks but is it useful as a foundation to understand the process. 
The SANS authors recommend a two-stage model. The 
first stage 1 consists in cyber espionage but the actual 
attack on an ICS is accomplished in stage 2. The challenge 
for the cyber adversary intending to attack an ICS with 
significant effect, is that they must become well versed in 
the process being automated and the engineering design 
of the ICS and safety system. Refer to [12] for details on the 
method.
The challenge for the cyber adversary intending to attack 
an ICS with significant effect, is that they must become 
well versed in the process being automated and the 
engineering design of the ICS and safety system. This is 
required to generate a predictable and controllable effect 
on the target industrial process. They also need to become 
familiar with the specific hardware and software technolo -
gies being used. All those additional steps require for the 
adversary more time and effort, offering an opportunity for 
the defenders.
This assumption would break down if the layered defence 
in depth protection for IT and OT domains would be vio -
lated, for example systems where the ICS has some form 
of remote access or internet connectivity independent of 
the organization’s IT infrastructure or any rogue wireless 
device connected to ICS wireless networks. These are 
historically not generally as well protected as those that 
go through various other protective mechanisms when 
traversing via the IT network and internal firewalls. As an 
example, backup connections to remote SCADA sites have 
been known to have been exploited in the past. Wireless 
networks that are not well secured in industrial plants or 
pipelines locations may also be a potential attack vector in 
some cases.
7. IMPROVING VISIBILITY IN ICS NETWORKS
An up to date OT domain asset inventory and OT network 
architecture are preconditions for cyber protection and the 
key controls presented in chapter 8.
Since you cannot protect what you don´t know, a precon -
dition prior elaborating a protection strategy is to create 
and update (after any change) a detailed inventory of all 
OT (and IT) assets.  Asset inventory is defined as resources 
(hardware, software, documents, services, people, facilities, 
etc.)
That can be tedious but is an absolute must for protect -
ing your business from cyber-attacks. All assets which do 
possess network capable communication interfaces (Eth, 
IP, wired or wireless) shall be listed since all these network 
interfaces could be basically attacked. 
RESEARCH / DEVELOPMENT / TECHNOLOGYPIPELINE TECHNOLOGY JOURNAL  21

An OT asset inventory is comprised of:
• Asset information
• Network Topology
The asset inventory should also contain the network 
topology to provide complete visibility of the OT 
environment, including communication relationships: 
Industrial and/or IT protocols used, peer connections, 
role in the communication (client/server, master/slave).
The OT (and IT if not yet available) network topologies 
documents must be created and updated after any 
change. Since those are golden nuggets for attack -
ers they shall be handle as “confidential” and usually 
stored within asset owner’s IT corporate network with 
adequate access protection measures.
Only by addressing this primary visibility gap can orga -
nizations and defenders then move on to addressing the 
fundamental problems posed by intrusions and gain the re -
quired initiative to detect attacks “as they happen” – allow -
ing for the possibility of mitigation and prevention –rather 
than responding to attackers “after they occur”.
8. ICS PROTECTION MEA -
SURES FOR PIPELINES
Selected pipeline control protection measures described 
in this paper are already part of Siemens Energy Industrial 
Applications Onshore solutions portfolio. Siemens Energy 
provides many OT cyber-security activities during green -
field or brownfield pipeline or onshore projects lifecycle. In 
greenfield projects the typical OT cybersecurity services are 
OT cybersecurity consultancy, OT cybersecurity responsi -
bility,   OT Risk assessment, OT Design review, OT architec -
ture/technologies/vendor/product proposal, OT network 
consulting, OT ICS design, OT Security Documentation, 
OT Security Testing during FAT and SAT, OT Monitoring 
services, OT Vulnerability Management, OT Patch Man -
agement. Within brownfield project Siemens Energy offers 
additionally OT asset inventories, Risk assessment, and 
support for upgrades or migrations.8.1 KP#1 – SEGMENT PIPELINE COM -
MUNICATION NETWORKS
Network segregation will delay APT attackers for reaching 
more “valuable” ICS asset to impact the Availability of the 
AIC security OT triad and more dangerously tamper the 
physical oil & gas process.
Particularly in the world of pipelines this protection mea -
sure is essential because the pipeline is intrinsically com -
posed of very distributed stations and systems and some 
stations along the route are or can be unmanned (Block, 
Pump, Meter, Compress, Control).
If an OT application needs to communicate been pipe -
line stations (Block valve, Pump station, metering station, 
compressor station, main control,…) the inter-site OT/IT 
architecture shall ensure that inter-site communications 
of each OT application  is segregated from the others. For 
example, any required SIS controller inter-site production 
communications/network shall be totally segregated from 
other networks.
Within a station the network design shall be guided by the 
defence in depth approach to that it is difficult or impossi -
ble to access from a network or physical security point of 
view critical OT physical process or safety control, electri -
cal control or communications assets.
OT application groups are are mapped to three Security 
Profile Levels (SP1..3)
Data exchange between two SP2 networks should favour 
point to point data layer 2 links or serial data links (the link 
shall not be routable).
Systems defined as SP3 shall have their own dedicated 
Engineering Workstation (EWS). It shall not be possible to 
configure an SP3 system from any other system. 
Systems defined as SP2 and SP3 may communicate 
together via a dedicated interface network using non-
routable communication cards. The use of IT equipment 
(i.e. servers, routers, switches, standard firewalls) in place 
of communications cards is not permitted. Unused network 
communication ports should be disabled or locked.
SP2 systems which require communications to other SP2 
systems over distinctive networks will communicate via a 
firewall.
Systems defined as SP1 shall not communicate with any 
other SII system with different security profile except via 
hardwired signals.
RESEARCH / DEVELOPMENT / TECHNOLOGY22 PIPELINE TECHNOLOGY JOURNAL

A pipeline control and communication network design re -
quire both intra-station and inter-station network segrega -
tion. In the IEC 62443-3-3 standard the grouping/network 
segmentation approach is similar but uses the concepts of 
zones and conduits. “Zones” are logical or physical assets 
that share common security requirements. The zones then 
communicate exclusively through secure “conduits”. A con -
duit is any pathway of communication that enters or exits a 
security zone.
Pipeline inter-site network segregation was implement -
ed in the past using technologies like SDH or building in 
parallel several industrial gigabit switches infrastructures. 
Nowadays the utilities are adopting the MPLS-TP technol -
ogy where centralised provisioning and management are 
key selection criteria.
8.2 KP#2 – AUGMENT PROTECTION FOR 
SAFETY INSTRUMENTED SYSTEMS (SIS)
As described in several press articles [13] the OT at -
tack called Triton/Trisis on Oil & Gas Plant ESD systems 
analysis revealed that the APT attackers where inside the 
victim´s plant three years before they launched the actual 
attack.  The intent of the attacker was to manipulate the 
integrity of the ESD controllers, but no catastrophic phys -
ical disaster occurred. The APT group goal was sabotage 
and physical system damage (like burner over-heating or 
over-pressure). Before targeting the SIS controllers, the 
attackers were first getting a remote access foothold on 
the SIS engineering workstations from which they were 
also able to communicate to the outside world through an 
IP routed internet access.
Therefore, SIS systems shall be segregated from anything 
else and located “as deep as possible” in the defence-
in-depth architecture. The typical discussion is about the 
interfacing of the SIS with the BPCS (Basic Process Control 
System) and with the “Control Center” functions. There are 
different SIS segregation architectures possible [14] :
• Air gapped: SIS is interfaced to BPCS by a discrete 
wiring only
• Interfaced SIS: SIS is interfaced to BPCS with a point 
to point communication. This point-to-point connec -
tion does not travel over the same network interface 
that is used for other communications.
• Integrated 2 zone: the SIS and BPCS are fully inte -
grated and provide direct, real-time communication 
between the systems. Information from the SIS zone is 
communicated to the BPCS and higher -level systems 
for monitoring purposes. This information should 
be read-only flowing from the SIS zone out to other 
systems.
• Integrated 1 zone: The SIS and BPCS systems are 
integrated in one zone providing much greater com -munication between those systems and higher-level 
systems in the architecture. There is only a single HMI 
and engineering workstation.
The choice depends on overall risk analysis and ICS solu -
tion providers system capabilities. 
Process control BPCS and SIS Logic Solver PLCs should 
support enhanced cybersecurity protection functions:
Recommended SIS access protection:
• To the Safety program (offline and online passwords, 
preferably stronger authentication using multi-factors)
• To the Fail-Safe CPU (F-CPU password and seeking for 
multi-factor auth)
• Dedicate a specific Engineering workstation for Safety 
Management. Custom data and program shall be 
classified as “confidential” and stored and accessed 
accordingly in asset owner´s corporate office environ -
ment with proper backups. Access to the workstation 
enforced through multi-factor authentication.
• If case of station ICSS/SIS/ESD or Pipeline Safe -
ty Control functions isolate it from any other data 
networks (point to point serial links or hard-wired are 
possible)
• Any tentative to access a SIS controller for trying to 
change its firmware, configuration data or process 
engineering data shall be detected, and security en -
forced by placing inline a dedicated Security Gateway 
connected on a dedicated network port of the SIS 
controller. This solution can also be applied for other 
controllers (PCS). Which user is authorized to access 
which controller for which purpose is then managed 
centrally by the security solution.
8.3 KP#3 – PREVENTIVE PROTEC -
TION FROM RANSOMWARE WITH A REGU -
LARLY TESTED BACKUP SOLUTION
Ransomware is the malicious software which is designed 
to deny access to a system or data by encrypting files until 
RESEARCH / DEVELOPMENT / TECHNOLOGY24 PIPELINE TECHNOLOGY JOURNAL

a ransomware payment is arranged by the victim. Ran -
somware attacks have become less frequent, but at the 
same time, they’re becoming more and more targeted and 
sophisticated.
Just before finalizing this paper a new Ransomware called 
SNAKE [16] was discovered. It targets entire corporate 
networks and possesses a dreaded level of obfuscation. 
Enterprise targeting ransomware are used by threat actors 
that infiltrate a business network, gather administrator 
credentials, and then use post-exploitation tools to encrypt 
the files on all of the computers on the network.
Upon successful infection, the SNAKE ransomware deletes 
the machine’s Microsoft Shadow Volume Copies before 
terminating various processes associated with SCADA 
systems, network management solutions, virtual machines 
and other tools. It then proceeds to encrypt the machine’s 
files while skipping over important Windows folders and 
system files. Attackers leave an instruction file on the com -
puter’s desktop:
According to a report of Cybersecurity Ventures released 
in 2019 a business will fall victim to a ransomware attack 
every 14 seconds by 2019, and every 11 seconds by 2021. 
When a ransomware attack gets successful, it can be 
extremely damaging, over 100k up to millions of dollars in 
losses for the organization.
In case of a ransomware infection impacting all or only part 
of the operations, the goal is to restore the overall pipeline 
process control continuity as soon as possible.  It is very 
essential to take a backup of the data so that in case if any 
attack happens that time you have not to lose your data.
Old ICS systems may not have accurate or complete 
(or any) backups. The OT plant(s) might have the media 
(tapes?) used to initially install and commission the system 
but they may never have made any subsequent backups. In 
some cases, the backup media may prove to be unreadable 
or corrupt. Some process plants may have updated their 
peripheral devices (e.g. going from reel-to-reel magnetic 
tape to cartridge tape) and never made a new backup. 
To avoid business OT data loss or critical control systems 
unavailability, one key security control part of any busi -
ness continuity plan is to have an OT backup strategy in 
place.  Getting a good backup made may be the critical first 
step before anything else can be done to an automation 
system or device. An industry best practice is to enforce 
a working procedure that states that any change to any 
OT asset shall be backed up. The backup procedure shall 
specify for each type of asset the four W: when, what, who, 
where. In addition, it might not be enough just to back up 
the important data and documents. Entire machines may 
need to be backed up, if they are critical to the business. In case of pipeline process control, the critical assets will be 
for example:
• Compressor - Pump – (Fiscal) metering - Station DCS 
server image and online data , 
• Pipeline SCADA & Pipeline server image and data, 
• Historian server image and data, 
• DCS/SCADA engineering project(s) repositories 
(including Process Automation offline programs and 
automation engineering data)
• SIS/ESD Engineering program and data,
• SIS/ESD controllers.
• Microsoft Active Directories
• Databases (MS SQL server, Oracle,…)
After a ransomware attack, if clean images of the infected 
machines were readily available, the asset owner could 
have completely wiped the infected hardware and restored 
it to the last good version. And organizations don’t have 
to store multiple complete copies of every system -- in -
cremental backup systems save just the latest changes, 
making them very efficient.
OT backup and restoration capabilities are part of the 
overall Business Continuity Planning involving both IT and 
OT domains. Obtain asset owner senior management com -
mitment, initiate OT and IT teams’ collaboration to identify 
business risk, elaborate, test and enforce the continuity 
plan in the organization.
A disaster recovery system can be extremely costly to set 
up and maintain within the organization. It is therefore es -
sential to properly define the requirements of the recovery 
system by assessing per business application criticality 
defined by the RTO and RPO criteria [17].
The company IT/OT business continuity plan in place 
with proper OT backup strategies and procedures will be 
applied and enforced by the workforce (intern, contrac -
tor), with proper onsite supervision. OT Backups (system 
images, virtual machines, data in databases or files) shall 
be tested regularly for proper restoration, off-site or during 
plant maintenance phases.  
The downside of current OT backup solutions for DCS, 
SCADA, EWS or Historian computers is that they are too 
specific, provide no automated control and too complicated 
to be handled by OT operations. Introducing virtualized OT 
servers and workstations and OT NAS File Server compo -
nents in the OT domain would allow to simplify OT backup 
and restoration operations in case of loss of individual 
or a complete OT site (disaster). By replicating OT Virtual 
Machines one can achieve low recovery time objectives 
(RTOs). For workloads with less strict RTO requirements, 
ne can setup backup copy jobs to achieve the 3-2-1 rule. 
The 3-2-1 rule states you should have 3 copies of back -
RESEARCH / DEVELOPMENT / TECHNOLOGYPIPELINE TECHNOLOGY JOURNAL  25

ups, on 2 different media, one of which should be offsite 
(remote site).
Pipeline control & communication systems with a secu -
rity Profile SP2 and SP3 shall be designed for a disaster 
recovery. The determination of RTO & RPO values per SPx 
applications is the responsibility of the pipeline operating 
company / asset owner.
Introducing virtualization or private cloud technologies 
in chosen pipeline stations or OT control centres would 
not only help for better and easier cyber security controls 
but also contribute to several overall business benefits: 
uniform software computing architecture to support the 
different cloud types,  edge computing and IIoT use cases, 
reduce foot print (space and energy).
8.4 KP#4 – SETUP ROBUST MUL TI-FAC -
TOR AUTHENTICATION (MFA) SCHEMA
Traditional pipeline control system SCADA/DCS/Histo -
rian/EWS computers access is only password protected. 
Two-Factor Authentication (or Multi-Factor-Authentication) 
adds a second method of identity verification to secure 
your accounts. First, the thing you know, your password, 
then something unique you own or have (keyfob, phone, 
smart card, fingerprint…). By combining your password with 
one of these factors, attackers can´t access your account 
even if they have your password. The on-premises solution 
(vs cloud solution) uses three main components:
• Authentication Manager
• Security Agents (installed on the computers or devices 
which shall be access protected). Challenges users for 
their security credentials and passing those creden -
tials to an authentication manager. 
• Authenticators / Tokens (Hardware keyfob, software 
mobile, software toolbar, on-demand SMS or email)
For cyber-security and availability reasons, to avoid inter -
net bidirectional access from the industrial domain to a 
publicly connected OT employee mobile phone for 2FA au -
thentication a typical solution is to operate with hardware 
based authenticators/tokens within the OT domain in a 
dedicated OT user/group role based directory (for example 
Microsoft Active Directory).
8.5 KP#5 – DETECT AS SOON 
AS POSSIBLE AN INTRUSION
Asset discovery and anomaly detection are key compo -
nents of any Operational Technology (OT) cybersecurity 
strategy.
An important security control to defend against the at -
tacker in the earliest step of the ICS Kill Chain Stage 1 is to detect, limit and block an attack (whether external/internal 
or un/intentional). It is therefore highly recommended to 
put detection capabilities in place.
8.5.1 MONITOR OT NETWORKS 
AND RESPOND TO INCIDENT
An attack on an Industrial Control System is always the 
result of an intrusion over several possible attacks paths 
and vectors, then a long period of maturation during which 
the cybercriminal will move in your network to find a secu -
rity breach. He will then try to modify controller programs, 
change the set points and the parameters, and try to tam -
per with the process mainly external DCS/SCADA values 
as HMI and Field I/Os. To avoid the attacker to further 
progress in your networks as depicted in the ICS Kill Chain 
(refer to section 6), it is of utmost importance to know as 
soon as possible that some bad things are taken place in 
your network and have an incident response process and 
organization in place. The detection technologies can be 
signatures based, behavioural based or even now using 
Machine Learning algorithms.
Typical OT monitoring solutions consist of:
• Passive OT & IT network sensors:
• ICS protocol visibility and analysis by extracting meta -
data (Technology DPI – Depp Packet Inspection) 
• Asset discovery - visibility trough network scan -
ning 
• Anomaly & Intrusion Detection
• Used on brownfield ICS installations
• ICS Endpoint (server, workstation, controller, 
industrial gateway, switch) intrusion sensor agent 
software:
• Adds detailed asset inventory data compared to pas -
sive detection
• Preferred in greenfield projects since it usually 
requires additional software installation on ICS 
equipment.
8.5.2 TO SUPPORT FOREN -
SICS THE SAME TIME SOURCE IS ESSEN -
TIAL WITHIN OT AND IT DOMAINS
The reconstruction of events as part of computer foren -
sics and incident response can involve events from only 
a single system, as well as events obtained from multiple, 
geographically separate sources, each with its own clock. 
An especially useful technique for event reconstruction is 
‘‘time-lining’’. Here, discrete events that have a timestamp 
associated with them are ordered into a timeline. Time -
stamps can be obtained from file system metadata, system 
logs, or application data. Depending on the source of the 
events, this can provide a detailed sequence of the events 
that took place on a system (or multiple ones), allowing 
RESEARCH / DEVELOPMENT / TECHNOLOGY26 PIPELINE TECHNOLOGY JOURNAL

an investigator to reconstruct the sequence of events that 
took place. But OT time reference integrity is also very im -
portant for controlling the process as well (SCADA/DCS).
To fulfil OT time source availability and not breaking 
cyber-security network segregation a trade-off should be 
find where and how many OT time sources are required for 
controlling a pipeline. The principle is to implement at least 
two independent OT time references for each Security Pro -
file SPi (i=1..3) within the OT (IIS) domain – usually located 
in main control centres – providing  NTP (Network Time 
Protocol) master clock availability. NTP was not designed 
with security in mind.
8.5.3  COLLECT AND ANALYSE OT SECURITY 
EVENTS IN A UNIFIED SECURITY ORGANIZATION
An intrusion could start in any domain OT or IT.  A unified 
IT/OT security strategy is the best way to manage asset 
owner´s entire digital risk, not only for a pipeline asset. 
An OT/ICS/IIoT security solution should provide asset & 
network visibility and integrate natively with asset owner 
companywide existing centralized security Operations 
Centre (SOC) to provide asset owner SOC with real-time 
information about OT assets, vulnerabilities and threats to 
give complete visibility.
To avoid OT and IT technical and organizational silos it 
is recommended to unify IT and OT security activities 
concerning security event analysis and incident response 
process by creating a unique Security Operations Centre 
(SOC) staffed with IT and OT security analysists/experts.
OT security events (issued by automation controller, indus -
try gateways, OS, network device, application or passive 
anomaly sensor) will not be kept in the OT domain but 
replicated in the IT domain for storage in the unique IT/OT 
SOC companywide event database. This will enable event 
history, co-expertise in a unique security analysis team, 
and does not allow an attacker already in the OT domain to 
remove his tracks by deleting ICS security logs or events. 
Customizing and analysing security events generated by 
ICS equipment (controllers, PLCs) will usually require ICS 
vendor support.
9. CONCLUSION
Obviously, the end goal of a sophisticated external cy -
ber-attack on an industrial control system could be devas -
tating and potentially terrifying. It should be clear from the 
above that while many in industry are concerned that this 
may occur, it is nevertheless the domain of well-equipped 
and sophisticated adversaries . 
All companies building or operating pipelines need to have 
a cyber-security risk-based strategy, an organization, mea -sures in place and skilled staff. Obviously, this organization 
and these measures need to have enough funding to work 
smoothly. Besides individual programs, which are definitely 
important, a general OT/ICS policy/program should be in 
place which has to be approved by senior management 
and documented for later reference. 
To avoid issues in the project execution of a greenfield 
pipeline project, we recommend defining OT cyber-security 
requirements and guidelines at the very early stage (before 
EPC contracting), so that the complete EPC/EIT supply 
chain involved in the execution can properly provision 
costs and efforts for related OT cyber-security activities. 
The remaining security level is always a balance between 
business impact and costs for implementing cyber-secu -
rity controls and staff. It is established by risk assessment 
methodologies in basic and detailed design phases. The 
decision whether the level is acceptable or not for a given 
project relies within the asset owner.
References
1. K. Zetter, „An Unprecedented Look at Stuxnet, the World‘s First Digital Weapon,“ Wired, 03 
November 2014. [Online]. Available: https://www.wired.com/2014/11/countdown-to-zero-day-
stuxnet/
2. D. Kshner, „The Real Story of Stuxnet,“ IEEE Spectrum, 26 February 2013. [Online]. Available: 
https://spectrum.ieee.org/telecom/security/the-real-story-of-stuxnet
3. Symantec Security Response, „Dragonfly: Western Energy Companies Under Sabotage Threat,“ 
Symantec, 30 June 2014. [Online]. Available: https://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/dra -
gonfly-western-energycompanies-under-sabotage-threat-energetic-bear 
4. Kaspersky Lab Global Research and Analysis Team, „Energetic Bear - Crouching Yeti,“ Kas -
persky, 01 July 2014. [Online]. Available: https://media.kasperskycontenthub.com/wpcontent/
uploads/sites/43/2018/03/08080817/EB-YetiJuly2014-Public.pdf 
5. R. M. Lee, M. J. Assante and T. Conway, „German Steel Mill Cyber Attack,“ SANS ICS, 30 
December 2014. [Online]. Available: https://ics.sans.org/media/ICS-CPPE-case-Study-2-Germ -
anSteelworks_Facility.pdf
6. R. A. Becker, „Cyber Attack on German Steel Mill Leads to „Massive“ Real World Damage,“ PBS, 
08 January 2015. [Online]. Available: https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/article/cyber-attack-ger -
man-steel-millleads-massive-real-world-damage/
7. SANS ICS, „Analysis of the Cyber Attack on the Ukrainian Power Grid,“ SANS, 18 March 2016. 
[Online]. 
8. Available: https://ics.sans.org/media/E-ISAC_SANS_Ukraine_DUC_5.pdf 
9. J. Slowik, „Anatomy of an Attack: Detecting and Defeating CRASHOVERRIDE,“ Dragos, 12 Octo -
ber 2018. [Online]. Available: https://dragos.com/media/CRASHOVERRIDE2018.pdf 
10. Dragos, „TRISIS Malware: Analysis of Safety System Targeted Malware,“ Dragos, 13 December 
2017. [Online]. 
11. Available: https://dragos.com/blog/trisis/TRISIS-01.pdf
12. US-CERT, „Russian Government Cyber Activity Targeting Energy and Other Critical Infrastruc -
ture Sectors,“ US-CERT, 15 March 2018. [Online]. Available:  https://www.us-cert.gov/ncas/
alerts/TA18-074A
13. Reuters, „German Intelligence sees Russia behind Hack of Energy Firms: Media Report,“ 
Reuters, 20 June 2018. [Online]. Available: https://www.reuters.com/article/us-germany-cy -
ber-russia/german-intelligencesees-russia-behind-hack-of-energy-firms-media-report-idUS -
KBN1JG2X2?il=0
14. M. J. Assante and R. M. Lee, „The ICS Cyber Kill Chain,“ SANS, 5 October 2015. [Online]. 
Available: https://www.sans.org/reading-room/whitepapers/ICS/industrial-control-system-cy -
ber-kill-chain-36297 
15. Triton/Trisis Attack Was More Widespread Than Publicly Known  https://www.darkreading.
com/attacks-breaches/triton-trisis-attack-was-more-widespread-than-publicly-known/d/d-
id/1333661 
16. Safety & Security - Is a Physically Separation of the SIS necessary ?
17. https://www.aidic.it/cet/16/48/113.pdf
18. CPE - Common Platform Enumeration https://cpe.mitre.org/about/
19. Ransomware SNAKE  https://www.tripwire.com/state-of-security/security-data-protection/
snake-ransomware-targeting-entire-corporate-networks/
20. Disaster recovery plan : RTO vs. RPO
21. https://www.msp360.com/resources/blog/rto-vs-rpo-difference/
Author
Jean-Francois Wirrmann 
SIEMENS Energy
Cyber-security Officer Industrial 
Applications Onshore 
jean-francois.wirrmann@
siemens.com
RESEARCH / DEVELOPMENT / TECHNOLOGYPIPELINE TECHNOLOGY JOURNAL  27
