Short title  
AL:N, ECCN: EAR99   Publishing Date: 12/6/2023  
Streng vertraulich  © Siemens Energy 2021  Page 1 of 10 
Power Plant 
Operation and 
Maintenance 
Services  
Together we outperform   
Power Plant Operation and Maintenance Services  
AL: N, ECCN: EAR99   Publishing Date: 12/6/2023  
Streng vertraulich  © Siemens Energy 2021  Page 2 of 10 O&M Advisory  
A team of well -trained specialists will advise 
your team in ramping up the O&M mobilization 
and in the performance of O&M tasks during 
the commercial operation phase o f typically 
three years or more . And at the end of the 
contract period, our specialists will leave the 
site with processes in place, implemented and 
optimized, to help your team successfully 
operate and maintain the power plant in the 
future.  
O&M Management  
Siemens Energy specialists can be on staff in   
key O&M management positions for the 
contracted p eriod in certain countries . These 
specialist provide regular on -the-job training to 
your personnel to help prepare them to 
successfully  operate the power plant after the 
contract ends.Full Scope Maintenance (FSM)  
The Full Scope Maintenance is a comprehensive 
maintenance package which includes 
maintenance activities performed by Siemens 
Energy at the power plant utilizing  local  
personnel and a defined number of Siemens 
Energy specialists. Operation -related tasks 
remain with the customer. This package can 
offer more predictable maintenance costs and 
reduced potential for issues  regarding the 
maintenance of the plant. The equipment 
covered can include the gas turbine only, the 
power train or the complete power plant.  
A FSM contract can be combined with the  O&M 
Advisory Services to further optimize  plant 
operation.  
 O&M Portfolio to 
choose from  
Siemens Energy is not only a major component or 
solution provider in the power plant business, but 
also a major service provider offering O&M services 
for your complete power plant.   
Power Plant Operation and Maintenance Services  
AL: N, ECCN: EAR99   Publishing Date: 12/6/2023  
Streng vertraulich  © Siemens Energy 2021  Page 3 of 10 Full Scope O&M  
The Full Scope O&M is a comprehensive package 
which includes full scope O&M services for the 
power plant performed by Siemens Energy 
utilizing local  personnel and a defined  number of 
Siemens Energy specialists. With this service 
package, Siemens Energy takes primary  
responsibility for the defined O&M scope which 
can allow you to concentrate on your core 
business. Th is agreed program can include 
performance  and cost-based  incentives.  
Depending on your objectives, these services can 
be offered for the gas turbine, the power train or 
the complete power plant. All of our incorporate   
best practices we have developed from our global 
power plant business and high quality, 
environmental, health and safety standards 
including as ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 45 
001, since Siemens Energy O&M services are IMS  
(Integrated management system)  certified.  
These pillars form the basis for O&M services 
provided by Siemens Energy and can offer a great 
level of flexibility to meet your requirements.  
The larger the scope you entrust Siemens Energy 
with, the more Siemens Energy can manage your 
assets in an optimal way.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 O&M Portfolio  

Power Plant Operation and Maintenance Services  
AL: N, ECCN: EAR99   Publishing Date: 12/6/2023  
Streng vertraulich  © Siemens Energy 2021  Page 4 of 10 01 O&M Training  
Page 5  
02 O&M Audits and Assessments  
Page 6  
03 O&M Global Specialist Center  
Page 7  
04 O&M Asset Management  
Page 7  05 Computerized Maintenance Management 
System (CMMS) Implementation  
Page 7  
06 Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG) 
Inspections  
Page 8  
07 Document Management System  
Page 8  

Power Plant Operation and Maintenance Services  
AL: N, ECCN: EAR99   Publishing Date: 12/6/2023  
Streng vertraulich  © Siemens Energy 2021  Page 5 of 10 O&M Training  
Siemens’ Energy Operation & Maintenance 
Training is a people -driven business. Power 
plant personnel in all technical areas of the 
power plant must be experienced Competency 
management and training are key factors in 
fulfilling this requirement.  
A wide range of simulators are available that 
can be remotely connectable to your 
installation to effectively train your operating 
personnel under simulated “live” conditions. 
Training can be provided on virtually every 
technical topic in the field of gas -fired power 
relevant to operations or maintenance 
personnel  including applicable EHS practices . 
The level of knowledge of the operation 
personnel can be tested through the Siemens 
Energy Operator Certification Program. 
The aim is to have the best people in place to 
serve the customer’s requirements to optimize 
the ability for successful operation.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other individual 
services you can 
benefit from  
Siemens Energy  O&M also offers a range of 
individual services, which our customers can order 
independently of the products described above. 
Typical individual services include:  
Power Plant Operation and Maintenance Services  
AL: N, ECCN: EAR99   Publishing Date: 12/6/2023  
Streng vertraulich  © Siemens Energy 2021  Page 6 of 10 Elements of O&M Audit  O&M Audits and Assessments  
Siemens Energy O&M offers an audit service, 
initially developed to review the performance 
of Siemens Energy's own O&M teams, to 
analyze and evaluate the performance of 
management and processes in a power plant. 
Seven main elements of your O&M business are 
analyzed by means of a standardized system to 
identify potential for improvement. The in -
depth assessment is based on an integrated 
management system focused on power plant  
  
operation and maintenance enables a thorough 
evaluation of your O&M business. Compliance 
with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 45 001 is 
also assessed through this audit.  
Siemens Energy O&M also offers external O&M 
Assessments with a defined  scope tailored to 
the customer’s objectives. The aim of the 
assessments is to support the customer in 
identifying weaknesses and strengths of their 
organization to help the customer to further 
improve O&M performance

Power Plant Operation and Maintenance Services  
AL: N, ECCN: EAR99   Publishing Date: 12/6/2023  
Streng vertraulich  © Siemens Energy 2021  Page 7 of 10 O&M Global Specialist Center  
A group of specialists is located in  our O&M 
offices in Germany with remote access to 
critical information in power plants operated by 
Siemens Energy. The goal of the Global 
Specialist Center is to resolve technical issues as 
soon as possible to help keep availability of 
monitored power plan ts on a high level and  
inform power plants of fleet issues. With the aid 
of remote monitoring tools these specialists can   
rapidly understand and analyze technical issues 
the power plant is encountering. The specialists 
have access to Siemens Energy engineering 
organizations and key subcontractors who can 
be contacted when required to address a 
specific or fleet -related issue.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
O&M Asset Management  
With Full  Scope Maintenance or the Full Scope 
O&M, Siemens Energy O&M can implement 
Asset Management in line with ISO 55 001 
which can help the customer create even more 
enhanced value  from a power plant. 
Continuous improvement of a maintenance 
strategy  as well as  operation and the 
installation of asset management  adopting  
changing market requirements and advanced 
technical possibilities are key factors in the 
success of the power plant. By aligning both the 
owner’s and Siemens Energy O&M targets, 
these can move forward together to optimize 
performance. Open communication and close 
cooperation between owne r and Siemens 
Energy O&M are the bases for success.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Computerized Maintenance 
Management System (CMMS) 
Implementation  
Siemens Energy utilizes an in -house web -based 
Computerized Maintenance Management 
System (WebBFS  / Mainsaver ) in all power 
plants operated by us. This software tool 
contains various modules for managing the 
power plant, such as maintenance planning 
and tracking, shift management, permit -to-
work system, parts and consumables inventory 
management, purchasing and c ost controlling. 
It can be a beneficial tool to aid the power plant 
O&M team in performing their work in an 
ordered, efficient and safe manner. It c an also 
serve to store plant historical maintenance 
data. Siemens Energy specialists will set up the 
system for you and aid you in feeding the 
required information into the system.  
O&M Global Expert Center  

Power Plant Operation and Maintenance Services  
AL: N, ECCN: EAR99   Publishing Date: 12/6/2023  
Streng vertraulich  © Siemens Energy 2021  Page 8 of 10 Heat Recovery Steam Generator 
(HRSG) Inspections  
Experience has shown that it is also important 
to regularly assess – beside the gas turbines – 
the steam turbines, generators and other 
important plant equipment. Siemens Energy 
O&M has developed inspection programs to 
monitor the condition of the HRSGs du ring 
minor and major scheduled outages of the 
power plant. Through these inspections, 
technical issues with the HRSGs can be detected 
at an early stage and recommend mitigation 
strategies to help preserve equipment life, keep 
availability high and maintena nce costs low.  Document Management System  
Siemens Energy has developed a document 
management system for power plant 
documentation named Tecdocpower  TM. It is a 
web-based tool to facilitate the management of 
power plant documentation with access from 
different locations. The documentation within 
the system is structured using an intuitive 
interface reflecting the outline of the power 
plant and its equipm ent. It is linked to the 
Computerized Maintenance Management 
System ( CMMS ) and an important tool for 
power plants to provide orderly storage of 
documentation and rapid access to information 
when and where required.
 
Modular Maintenance Management System  
Modular Maintenance Management System  
Power Plant Operation and Maintenance Services  
AL: N, ECCN: EAR99   Publishing Date: 12/6/2023  
Streng vertraulich  © Siemens Energy 2021  Page 9 of 10 Whether you are an independent power producer, a public utility or a manufacturer producing your 
own power, Siemens Energy O&M can help you boost your operating efficiency, reduce downtime, 
mitigate your risks, widen your competitive edge, maximize your pe rformance and increase the 
profitability of your power plant assets. Our O&M portfolio ranges from individual services to an all -
inclusive long -term operation and maintenance program. We can tailor the contract scope to your 
individual objectives.   
 
Benefits of Operation & Maintenance Contracts  With more than a century of service to the power 
generation industry, Siemens Energy brings its 
tradition of experience, quality and expertise to 
every project. As one of the world’s largest 
combined cycle power plant operators, our 
operation and maintenan ce (O&M) fleet 
experience totals more than 38 gigawatts 
worldwide with customers on five continents.  
                                             
                            
                   
                                    
Power Plant Operation and Maintenance Services  
AL: N, ECCN: EAR99   Publishing Date: 12/6/2023  
Streng vertraulich  © Siemens Energy 2021  Page 10 of 10 
 
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Freyeslebenstr. 1  
91058 Erlangen, Germany  
 
For the US Published by  
Siemens Energy Inc.  
4400 Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826 -2399, U.S.  
 
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens -energy.com/website  
Article No PSPG -B10010 -01-7600  
© Siemens Energy, 2021  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG  
The information in this document contains only general descriptions 
of potential features, capabilities and results which may or may not 
apply in each case, which are not warranted or guaranteed, and are 
subject to change.  Such features, capabilities or r esults shall only 
apply if and to the extent set forth in a contract.  
. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use 
by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the 
owners.     
    