The Company
Wien Energie is Austria‘s largest regional energy provider. 
The company reliably supplies around two million people 
and 230,000 commercial and industrial facilities with ener-
gy. Electricity and heat production comes from cogenera-
tion, waste recycling and renewable energy such as solar, 
wind and hydropower as well as biomass. Wien Energie is 
massively expanding its share of renewable energy sources 
and making an active contribution to Austria’s goal of climate 
neutrality by 2040.
The Task
As the risk of cyberattacks on critical infrastructure increas-
es, so do the requirements to which energy companies are 
subject. Specific know-how on increasingly complex plant 
technologies and cybersecurity is required for the state-of-
the-art operation of all Wien Energie assets. In most cases, 
operators do not have local access to the necessary level of 
expertise.Our Solution
Siemens Energy’s Remote Expert Center (REC) Cybersecu-
rity team supports Wien Energie with a combination of 
preventive and corrective services. The goal of offering an 
integrated service that addresses all known potential 
threats to availability makes cybersecurity a consistent 
extension and core component of the current REC service. 
The support provided by SE cybersecurity experts ranges 
from the detection of security events and the classifica-
tion of cybersecurity events and incidents, to forensic 
analyses and appropriate countermeasures:Wien
Energy GmbH• Up-to-date and comprehensive cybersecurity status 
based on control system data
• Rapid 24/7/365 remote support for analysis, identifi-
cation, classification, and resolution of events 
• Support for regulatory reporting requirements and 
in the event of a cybersecurity incident
• Coverage of the standard requirement ISO/IEC27001 
and IT-SiG 2.0Your Benefits
Wien Energie
Austria
Supported by
cybersecurity expertssiemens-energy.com/i&c-service
Reference l  Wien Energie GmbH
“The REC Cybersecurity team  
fully convinced us that their  
offering optimally complements 
Wien Energie‘s existing processes.”
Published by and copyright © 2022
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich, GermanyF
or more information, please visit our website: 
www.siemens-energy.com/i&c-service
© Siemens Energy, 2022
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract. 
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. 
KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the ownersCyber Inspection:  Detect security events
• Online view and report on the on-site cyber situation 
(daily updates)
• In case of a classified event/alarm, a ticket is immediately 
opened and processed by the REC Cybersecurity Hotline
 C
yber Hotline : Process events and classify incidents
• Fast remote support, e.g., in case of suspicious log 
entries/processes/access behavior, incidents caused by
users, and also in case of Omnivise T3000 cybersecurity 
malfunctions
Incident Response: Analyze cyber incidents and initiate 
countermeasures
• In-depth analysis and remediation of a classified cyber
incident
• Assistance with further mitigation and elimination of
the cyber incident (via common Remote Service 
Platform or on-site)©Foto: Wien Energie/ Ludwig Schedl
Philipp Lellek,  
OT Cybersecurity Expert,  
Wien Energie GmbH
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 2