Haru Oni hydrogen plant Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications November 14, 2022 9 min read Haru Oni: eFuel plant of the future Story Drive industry decarbonization Transform conventional power Together with our partners, here in Patagonia, Chile, we have built the world’s first integrated, industrial-scale plant for synthetic climate-neutral fuels. Step-by-step, our team will continue to explore the future of eFuels from wind and water. So, the question is, where next? Watch the video e-Fuel from wind and water becomes reality In Chilean Patagonia, a team with members from different companies – owner HIF, co-founders Porsche and Enel, ExxonMobil, Enap, and others – came together to tackle something that’s never been done before. Electricians, mechanical engineers, project managers and many more explorers with a “can-do” mindset are working at the very outer reaches of what’s known to explore uncharted territories in an effort to drive the energy transition. The Haru Oni hydrogen plant is their joint flagship project. Experts for each technology step are needed, from wind power, electrolysis, methanol synthesis, to groundworks and construction of buildings. What unites this diverse team from various countries is their enthusiasm for a clean energy world via eFuel – and their hunger to move to the next step: the large-scale plant. Siemens Energy at Haru Ori: Exploring the routes to decarbonization The Haru Oni hydrogen plant is fully operating: producing eFuel from wind and water. Still, our team wants to achieve more: How can we improve efficiency? How can we unlock the full potential of green hydrogen for decarbonize society? Does Haru Oni have a future beyond eFuels? We don’t know all the answers yet, but, every day, in every way, we’re moving forward. Step by step, we will get there. Learn more in a 360° experience tour of our  virtual Haru Oni site Start exploration Haru Oni: One location, many possibilities to explore The Haru Oni project demonstrates a broad spectrum of innovative, climate-relevant technologies, and the potential of our team at one location. Synthetic fuel is produced from water, wind energy and biogenic CO₂. It is a liquid energy carrier that creates about 90% less CO₂ emissions than the fossil counterpart. In case of eGasoline, it is simultaneously compatible with existing liquid fuel infrastructure. Discover three reasons for e-Fuels Efficiency depends on geography When it comes to efficiency in renewable power generation, location matters. Wind turbines in places with stronger winds, like the southern parts of Chile, operate much more efficiently. For example, 2 wind turbines at Haru Oni can create the same amount of eFuel as roughly 6 wind turbines in Germany. It’s not the end of the road for petrol cars ... ... yet. Switching the global fleet of petrol cars to electric would leave a massive carbon footprint – and it wouldn’t happen overnight. So even though the number of new electric cars is growing significantly, there is still a large fleet of older cars that need to be fueled with gasoline. The have's and have-not's of natural resources Thanks to an abundance of sun or wind, some regions can produce more power than they need locally. Whereas other regions, like in Europe, are hungry for more energy but simply don’t have the available space and resources to produce enough renewable power. “ It’s important to keep in mind that hydrogen based eFuels are part of a much bigger energy transition picture and shouldn’t be considered in isolation. It could be an opportunity for fossil fuel exporters to help diversify their economies and develop new export industries. Clara Bowman COO HIF Global Filling the first tank Remember the date: 20th of December 2022. A momentous day in the energy transition and fight against climate change. The first tank was filled with climate-neutral eFuel produced by world’s first integrated commercial plant. Soon Haru Oni will be producing 130.000 liters of eFuel a year –  this will increase up to 550 million liters in the years to come. “ Our involvement in the world’s first commercial, integrated eFuels plant supports the development of the alternative fuels of the future. By using them, we can make a further contribution toward protecting the climate. Dr. Oliver Blume CEO Porsche AG Strong partner network Transporting new renewable energy from regions with sun and wind in abundance to regions that are energy-hungry requires different expertise to be smartly combined. Owner and lead developer Haru Oni pilot project Co-founder and offtake of the fuel R&D and product development of liquified gas (eLG) Provider of the methanol synthesis technology Support and funding Co-founder, focus on wind power and electrolysis Contributor of MTG technology Infrastructure, logistics, and service provider Supplier and system integrator wind energy through electrolysis to production of fuel Read more Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition 5 min read Morrow Repower Project, USA: Forward-thinking power generation See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025