siemens-energy.comImproving the Economics  
of Brownfield Platform  
Electrification with Subsea 
Transformers & High-voltage, 
Wet-mate Connectors 
Table of contents
Introduction
The Case for Subsea Power Distribution
Combining Subsea Transformers with Wet-mate Electrical Connectors
Overview of Different Subsea Power Topologies
How Siemens Energy is Supporting Offshore Electrification EffortsPage 3
Page 4
Page 6
Page 7
Page 9Improving the Economics of Brownfield Platform Electrification with Subsea Transformers & High-voltage, Wet-mate Connectors
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 2
Power generation represents most Scope  
1 and 2 carbon emissions in the offshore  
oil & gas sector. On the UK Continental 
Shelf (UKCS), offshore platforms produce 
around 18 million tons of CO2 emissions 
annually. It is estimated that around 75%  
of this is associated with electricity 
generation, primarily from gas turbine 
generators (GTGs)1. Introduction
Reducing the offshore industry’s reliance on fossil fuels  
for power is critical to achieving near- and long-term 
decarbonization targets. It is also becoming increasingly 
crucial for profitability, particularly in regions like the North 
Sea, where operators face carbon tax penalties that are 
expected to become increasingly stringent. 
Platform electrification using utility power from shore is  
the most practical strategy for reducing the carbon footprint 
of fixed and floating production facilities with high power 
demands. In recent years, many operators have also begun 
exploring concepts to reduce emissions from GTGs with offshore microgrids (i.e., linking multiple platforms using  
the same energy source) or by harnessing clean power from 
temporary or permanent offshore turbine generators (WTGs), 
floating solar, wave or tidal. 
These projects often require a new electrical transformer  
to passively transfer the generated electrical energy to the 
required level. Typically, this involves stepping down (i.e., 
reducing) voltage to the platform’s switchboard rating. 
One of the most critical questions that must be addressed 
early on in an offshore electrification project relates to the 
installation and connection of the transformer. With 
greenfields, developers can design the facility from the 
ground up and thus optimize equipment layouts based  
on whether the transformer will be installed on the topside  
or subsea. Often, the former is chosen. 
Brownfields, however, typically do not have this luxury. 
Existing space and weight constraints make installing a 
transformer on the topsides a complex and cost-prohibitive 
undertaking with significant execution risks. 
Electing to install the transformer subsea offers a solution  
to this problem. When used in combination with proven 
wet-mate electrical connectors and advanced digital 
monitoring systems, it can greatly improve the underlying 
economics of offshore electrification or microgrid projects.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 3Improving the Economics of Brownfield Platform Electrification with Subsea Transformers & High-voltage, Wet-mate Connectors
1 https://www.worldoil.com/magazine/2021/august-2021/features/electrifying-offshore-oil-and-gas-facilities-with-floating-wind-turbines/
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 4For electrification of platforms at moderate 
step-out distances (30 - 40 km) and power 
loads less than 10 megawatts (MW), it may 
be feasible to connect to a medium-voltage 
transmission line (typically lower than  
38 kV). In such cases, the need for a step-
down transformer offshore is eliminated, 
and the transmission line can be directly 
connected to a topside (or subsea) 
switchgear, which distributes the power 
to various consumers, including pumps, 
compressors, etc. The Case for Subsea Power Distribution
However, platforms at longer step-out distances require 
higher voltages and currents at the generation source to 
ensure the correct power levels reach the platform. This 
stipulates a step-down transformer as part of the power 
system to reduce the incoming electrical energy to the  
correct levels. 
Numerous factors influence the installation of a transformer 
on the topside or subsea. These include (but are not limited 
to) distance from shore, space constraints, shutdown periods, 
topside access, maintenance requirements, proximity to other 
platforms that will be electrified, etc. 
On brownfields, the installation of a transformer on  
the topsides can cause a “ricochet” effect, requiring the 
modification of other modules. Improving the Economics of Brownfield Platform Electrification with Subsea Transformers & High-voltage, Wet-mate Connectors
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 5A typical 25MVA topside transformer can weigh up to  
37 tonnes and have a footprint of 2.5m (Width) x 2.5 (Length) 
x 1.6m (Height), excluding the control system. Modifications 
to allow for extra space and weight can drastically increase 
project complexity and require extensive planning and the 
use of heavy-lifting equipment. In virtually all cases, 
production must come offline for an extended period. The 
modification costs (often underestimated) and lost revenue 
from non-productive time (NPT) make the economics of 
brownfield electrification extremely challenging.
A subsea transformer addresses these issues, as a substantial 
portion of the project work scope can take place while the 
platform remains in operation. The transformer itself can be 
deployed several kilometers outside the platform drop zone. 
Although a production shutdown may be required to connect 
the transformer after it has been installed on the seabed, NPT 
is typically far less than when installing the transformer on 
the platform, as it requires few (if any) modifications to the 
existing topsides design. In some cases, the total cost of 
installing a transformer on the platform may be double that 
of installing one on the seabed. 
Another key advantage of installing a subsea transformer 
away from the platform is reducing the impact of voltage 
drop. Subsea transformers can also take advantage of 
seawater’s natural cooling effect, which further lowers 
energy requirements and improves the unit’s overall 
reliability. 
Subsea power distribution also provides increased flexibility 
in field development by supporting a “plug-and-play” 
philosophy with multiple assets. This is particularly relevant 
for existing fields where operators have plans where there is 
an opportunity to:
•  Tie into one or more local WTGs or another renewable 
source, such as tidal or wave energy
•  Electrify several platforms via a microgrid concept (share 
power from GTGs on separate platforms)
• I ncorporate battery energy storage systems (BESS) as part 
of a hybrid configuration
While much of the industry still views subsea transformers as 
a novel technology, they are well-proven, with the first unit 
installed in the late 1990s.Improving the Economics of Brownfield Platform Electrification with Subsea Transformers & High-voltage, Wet-mate Connectors
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 6Subsea electrical connectors fall into two categories: dry-mate and wet-mate. Both 
connector types have been used successfully for decades; however, wet-mate connectors 
have gained significant interest in recent years as offshore operators have ventured into 
deeper waters and longer step-outs. Combining Subsea Transformers with Wet-mate 
Electrical Connectors
In subsea power distribution, wet-mate connectors can 
reduce deployment and operational costs because they allow 
for independent retrieval of the subsea transformer without 
lifting the power cable itself. 
On the other hand, dry-mate connectors must be de-mated  
in a “dry” environment. If they are used, retrieval of the 
subsea transformer requires a length of cable on each side of 
the connector to be lifted to the surface (typically three times 
the water depth). This is often a labor-intensive process that 
grows in complexity and cost as water depth increases. 
Despite their operational advantages, not all wet-mate 
connectors are created equal. For example, some products  
on the marketplace need to be mated and de-mated using 
ROVs, while others use stab-plates. Certain wet-mate 
connectors utilize more complex in-situ flushing technology, 
where the connector is flushed with various fluids to ensure 
integrity (e.g., seawater, fresh water, alcohol, dielectric fluid). 
This typically is performed after the connector halves are 
mated subsea but before any electrical connections are  
made, and it requires specialized equipment and personnel  
to be completed. Similarly, the complexity of connectors varies from company 
to company and project to project. In some cases, the 
connectors are designed to be utilized in a “plug-and-play” 
fashion. In others, specialized teams are brought to the 
production site or platform to “stick-build” the assembly on 
the umbilical. 
Generally speaking, wet-mate connectors typically represent 
a more considerable proportion of the cost of a subsea power 
project than dry-mate connectors. Much of this is due to the 
extensive engineering measures that must be taken to ensure 
integrity and reliability during mating and de-mating in the 
presence of a high-pressure, saline environment and control 
the electrical field in high-voltage scenarios. 
In recent years, industry standards have helped promote 
connector standardization and provided certainty to 
end-users regarding connector performance and reliability. 
These standards have only covered low- and medium-voltage 
products (<36 kV). There needs to be an international 
standard for high-voltage subsea wet-mate electrical 
connectors. 
In 2019, Siemens Energy qualified the world’s first and only 
wet-mate connector capable of operating at 45kV (SpecTRON 
45), which fully complied with the Subsea Electrical Power 
Standardization (SEPS) SP-1001 cross-operator standard.  The 
standard was developed by a joint industry partnership 
consisting of major offshore operators. Its long-term aim is to 
reduce the costs of subsea field developments by bringing 
more uniformity to the planning and execution stages and 
minimizing the duplication of engineering efforts.Improving the Economics of Brownfield Platform Electrification with Subsea Transformers & High-voltage, Wet-mate Connectors

© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 7Subsea transformers can enable a wide 
range of offshore electrical topologies. 
Shown below are three representative 
examples. Other configurations are possible 
depending on the unique requirements of 
the platform(s).
1. Single platform with power from shore
Layout 1 shows the electrification of a single fixed or floating 
platform using power from shore. In this configuration, the 
subsea transformer can be installed any distance away from 
the platform and would feature a single high-voltage cable  
on the shoreside that splits into three cores (i.e., a three-
phase system), each of which is connected to the transformer 
via its wet-mate connector. Three wet-mate connectors  
on the platform side of the transformer transmit power  
to the three cores, which form a single umbilical with other 
communication cables, such as fiber optic lines. The umbilical 
can be either static or dynamic, depending on the needs of 
the facility or operator preference. 2. Power from a nearby floating wind farm
Layout 2 below shows the use of a subsea transformer in a 
topology with power generated from floating offshore WTGs 
or some other renewable source, such as tidal or wave power 
generators. 
As seen, one or multiple WTGs are connected to subsea 
electrical hubs, which serve as simple junction boxes. The 
specific configuration of WTGs (e.g., star formation, ring, 
etc.) is an ongoing topic of discussion for the offshore 
industry. The electrical hubs promote flexibility and resiliency 
by preventing a trip from a single WTG from taking an entire 
string offline. Each incoming cable to the junction box utilizes 
a wet-mate connector. All the power is fed into the subsea 
transformer via a single umbilical. 
An additional junction box could be installed on the 
transformer’s platform side to limit the dynamic cable’s 
length. This would also enable the transformer to be 
deployed independently.Improving the Economics of Brownfield Platform Electrification with Subsea Transformers & High-voltage, Wet-mate Connectors
Overview of Different Subsea Power Topologies

© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 83. Hub (Microgrid) Configuration
Layout 3 shows an offshore microgrid concept in which 
multiple platforms are electrified using the same energy 
source. In the configuration below, power comes from a 
highly stable (i.e., utility) source via shore. However, the 
source could also be one or more WTGs to offset conventional 
generation from GTGs. 
One typical microgrid scenario involves multiple assets in 
relative proximity facing a challenge with a power deficit on 
each asset. When operating independently, each asset would 
be required to run its spare backup gas turbine to cover the 
deficit. In case of maintenance or failure of one gas turbine, 
load shedding must take place, reducing the operational 
efficiency of that asset. 
Tying the assets together in a microgrid results in an 
integrated power system that can run more efficiently by 
allowing one or two gas turbines to be turned off. In the case 
of offshore WTGs, the microgrid enables all platforms to share 
the benefits of clean energy at a lower initial CAPEX 
investment.
Improving the Economics of Brownfield Platform Electrification with Subsea Transformers & High-voltage, Wet-mate Connectors
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 9Siemens Energy is a global leader in 
electrification and has played a pivotal  
role in some of the world’s largest offshore 
oil & gas electrification projects, including 
Johan Sverdrup, Martin Linge, Goliat, and 
Troll West (among others). Our portfolio 
includes a broad range of technologies 
and services that can support offshore 
operators’ efforts to digitalize, de-man,  
and decarbonize their assets. How Siemens Energy is Supporting Offshore  
Electrification Efforts
We have been a pioneer in the development of subsea  
power grids and offer several solutions that are relevant  
for platform electrification, including:
Subsea Step-down Transformers
Siemens Energy’s subsea transformer design can be 
implemented in a wide power range. The electrical design is 
based on traditional onshore distribution transformers but with an enhanced insulation system. An extensive 
qualification program has tested all materials for pressure  
and fluid compatibility. In addition, the design was verified  
in Norway using a prototype that underwent extensive  
testing in the factory and shallow water conditions. 
The subsea transformer has an integrated condition and 
monitoring system that is seamlessly integrated into the 
Siemens Energy subsea power control system (known as 
DigiGRID) and can easily be integrated with third-party 
systems. This provides the operator with transparency  
into the equipment and the status of its integrity, enabling 
optimization for enhanced performance and safety.  
Key features of the subsea transformer include:
• Voltages up to 145 kVac 
• Power rating up to 100 MVA 
• Pressure-compensated design 
•  Robust enclosure design with optimized natural  
cooling properties 
•  Biodegradable and environmentally friendly  
MIDEL 7131® fluid filling 
• Flexible interfaces (dry or wet-mate connections) 
• Advanced condition monitoring system 
• Qualified for 3,000 meters of water depthImproving the Economics of Brownfield Platform Electrification with Subsea Transformers & High-voltage, Wet-mate Connectors
Siemens Energy’s subsea transformer design can be implemented in a wide power range
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 10High-voltage, Wet-mate Electrical Connectors 
(SpecTRON 45 and SpecTRONnx66)
SpecTRON 45 is Siemens Energy’s high-voltage wet-mate 
connector for subsea power distribution applications. By 
incorporating several innovative technologies, SpecTRON 45 
provides high electrical integrity and a truly modular design, 
offering flexibility in layout for various applications, including 
subsea power distribution, exceptionally long step-outs, and 
high current systems. The SpecTRON 45 is the first connector 
to feature our Common Module Interface (CMI) and Quick 
Connect technologies, which allow for simple, reliable site 
termination and improved project execution.
The SpecTRON 45 wet-mate connector is rated for water 
depths up to 3,000 meters. Its high voltage and current  
rating allow for commonality between a subsea transformer’s 
primary and secondary. This reduces the cost of mating  
tools, protective caps, and test equipment, thus improving 
the economics of utilizing wet-mate connectors, which  
can often be cost-prohibitive.
The qualification of SpecTRON 45 to the SEPS standard is 
significant for the offshore industry. The lack of a common 
industry standard has driven the need for customizable 
manufacturing processes and systems based on documents 
specific to each project. This has subsequently increased  
the cost of connector development and made their 
application on many subsea projects uneconomical. 
In 2019, SpecTRON 45 was selected by a major oil and gas  
EPC firm for a subsea compression project in the North Sea. 
The connector will enable the compression system to receive 
power from a variable speed drive located onshore, over  
120 km away, a world record. 
Other potential applications of the connector include 
installing deepwater pipelines with direct electrical heating 
and simplifying the repair of deepwater high-voltage 
umbilical power cores.
In 2023, SpecTRON45 began requalification in accordance 
with IEC 63026-1 to increase the rated voltage to 72.5kV 
(SpecTRONnx66) to meet the requirements of floating 
offshore wind (FOW) and platform electrification projects.Subsea Monitoring System (DigiGRID™)
Subsea DigiGRID™ is a qualified generic control, safety, and 
Digital Twin system that can be used to monitor and control 
any part in a subsea process setup. The main intention of a 
subsea DigiGRID implementation is to extend the interfaces 
for a regular topside Safety and Automation Setup (SAS) and 
Digital Twin system(s) to the seabed.
In the context of subsea power distribution, DigiGRID can  
be used to continuously monitor critical parameters of the 
subsea transformer, including voltage, current, temperatures, 
etc. This data can then be collated with data from other 
critical equipment assets, enabling operators to develop  
an integrated Digital Twin of their platform. 
Different requirements exist regarding types of (electrical  
and functional) interfaces for subsea-connected equipment 
than for topside automation equipment. The interfaces for 
subsea-connected equipment and requirements for operating 
temperature range and mechanical shock and vibration make 
it not feasible to install regular topside interface units/boxes 
on the seabed.
Pre-FEED / Grid Studies
Performing grid studies and dynamic modeling is crucial  
to predicting how electrical systems behave under various 
operating conditions, including during faults and transient 
scenarios. The objective of the grid study is to develop a 
Digital Twin of the electrical infrastructure so that it can  
be tested and optimized before physical implementation. 
Grid studies involve analyzing the entire electrical supply 
system – from the generation source to the point of 
consumption offshore. Studies normally encompass a steady-
state (i.e., static) analysis of the network, and, for complex 
distribution systems, dynamic modeling and simulation. 
Siemens Energy is one of the few companies in the world  
that can perform complex grid studies for large-scale 
electrification projects and analyze multiple energy  
sources (GTGs, WTGs, power from shore), all feeding  
in to meet the fluctuating demand of one or more  
platform electrical systems.Improving the Economics of Brownfield Platform Electrification with Subsea Transformers & High-voltage, Wet-mate Connectors
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 11Strategizing Electrification: Balancing Aging 
Assets with Future Viability
The future of brownfield platform electrification will likely  
be decided in the next 5-10 years as operators compare the 
close of production dates against the financial viability of 
electrifying aging assets. 
Given the complexity and extended project timeline of subsea 
electrification projects, it is advantageous for operators and 
EPCs to select partners who can take on a substantial portion 
of the work scope, including delivery of the subsea power 
equipment and associated grid studies. 
Doing so not only minimizes interface and execution risk but 
also facilitates the development of a robust electrical system 
design capable of ensuring stable power during all scenarios, 
including during steady-state operation, start-up/shutdown, 
and upset events. Early engagement with the electrical 
system provider should be prioritized in all cases. Author
George Mabey holds a first-class degree in Engineering 
Product Design and is exploring brownfield platform 
electrification, microgrids, and floating wind designs 
using Siemens Energy’s subsea solutions. Before  
Siemens Energy, he designed subsea control systems  
and participated in several pioneering subsea designs.  
He has hands-on experience in engineering disciplines, 
such as instrumentation, new product development,  
and mechanical design. 
Email: george.mabey@siemensenergy.comImproving the Economics of Brownfield Platform Electrification with Subsea Transformers & High-voltage, Wet-mate Connectors
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Industrial Applications  
Freyeslebenstraße 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
Published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc. 
Industrial Applications 
Transformation of Industry 
4400 N Alafaya Trail 
Orlando, FL 32826USA 
USA
Article No.   
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only 
contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the 
course of further development of the products. The requested performance 
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third 
parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 12