THYRIPOL® -S
Omnivise Electrical Solutions
Static Excitation Systems
www.siemens -energy.com
The Task
The excitation system in a power plant plays a 
key role in ensuring long -term reliable operation 
of synchronous generators, since it significantly 
influences the operational readiness and 
dynamics of the generator. It also controls the 
reactive power response of the synchronous 
machine. 
Sooner or later, existing excitation systems will 
reach the end of their service life. This may be 
because some modules have been discontinued, 
or simply because they can no longer be opera -
ted cost -effectively. This is the case, for exam -
ple, if spare parts are only available at high cost, 
the growing requirements imposed on the 
control system dynamics can no longer be met, 
or the risk of failures rises to unacceptable levels 
for other reasons. An innovative solution is 
therefore required which ensures maximum 
reliability and fits the existing situation in both 
new -build and existing power plants.
Our Solution
Static Excitation Systems (SES) is a tried -and-
tested solution for synchronous machines 
(generators, motors and synchronous  
condensers ). SES can be used as a stand -alone 
system or as a compact system in combination 
with a start -up frequency converter.Static excitation systems (SES)
are excitation systems employing the most advanced  technology  for synchronous  generators  and synchronous  condensers , compatible with 
generators from any manufacturer . SES are suitable for low to high performance classes from 1 to over 1200 MVA generator output mainly in 
hydroelectric, gas, steam and nuclear power plants and are characterized by absolute reliability  and maximum efficiency .
The solution adapts perfectly to the condi -
tions in both newly built or upgraded power 
plants, regardless of the space conditions, 
generator type, power supply or control 
system and regardless of whether the control 
system is also being replaced at the same 
time, as well as whether there is a hard -wired 
or bus connection.
Especially important is that Siemens Energy 
provides a customer -specific solution no 
matter what redundancy concept is require -
ed. This flexibility is achieved solely using 
standard industrial components, which is 
why no "custom -made products "and no 
costly storage of spare parts are necessary.
Of course  Siemens Energy ensures  smooth 
installation  from project planning right 
through to commissioning, and then provides 
ongoing service  support for SES.
Use of SES brings with it all the advantages of 
innovative technology : enhanced  plant effi-
ciency , outstanding dynamic behavior, 
process self -monitoring, on-site visualization  
and remote diagnostic  capabilities .
More than 2000 implemented static excita -
tion systems have proven unconditional 
reliability and robustness for years.
Your Benefits
▪Enhanced efficiency, highest 
possible availability and 
reliability thanks to robust 
and proven technology
▪Low maintenance costs 
through the use of proven 
industry components and 
modular structure
▪Simple replacement of 
existing excitation system in 
the shortest possible time, 
with no interface problems
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Unrestricted | V3.1

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy, Inc.
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
For more information, please contact
Email : electrical -solutions@siemens -energy. com
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose 
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.