RG3-S
Omnivise Electrical Solutions
Brushless Excitation Systems
www.siemens -energy.com
The Task
Sooner or later, the existing excitation system 
will reach the end of its service life. This may be 
because some modules have been discontinued, 
or simply because they can no longer operate 
economically. This is the case if, for example, 
spare parts are only available at high cost, or 
grid operators impose new requirements for 
control dynamics which the systems are unable 
to meet, or for some other reason the statistical 
risk of failures exceeds an acceptable level.
What is then required is a solution that perfectly 
fits the existing situation and ensures reliable, 
continuous, operation based on innovative 
technology. 
Our Solution
BES is a tried -and-tested solution for all 
generators with exciters. For many years now, 
more than 1700 brushless excitation systems 
have been demonstrating the highest levels of 
reliability and robustness.
The solution can be adapted to conditions in 
each individual power plant due to the high 
degree of flexibility of the supply concepts. Brushless excitation systems (BES)
are excitation systems for generators with (brushless) exciters, using cutting -edge technology. They are suitable for all perfor mance classes 
from 1 over 1000 MVA generator output in gas, hydroelectric and steam power plants and are characterized by absolute reliabil ityand 
maximum efficiency.
The excitation system is independent of 
which generator with exciter you choose to 
employ, which power supply is present, 
which I&C system you use or whether the 
I&C system is being replaced at the same 
time. 
Another particularly important point: 
Regardless of which redundancy concept is 
required, Siemens Energy will implement a 
customized concept, covering everything up 
to comprehensive full redundancy concepts. 
This flexibility is achieved solely using 
standard industrial components, which is 
why no "custom -made products "and no 
costly storage of spare parts are necessary.
The switchover to the latest generation of 
BES also benefits user friendliness, due to 
ergonomic and transparent presentation of 
the operating status and excellent 
interaction with the generator protection 
and I&C systems. 
Of course, Siemens Energy ensures smooth 
replacement, encompassing everything 
from project planning through to commis -
sioning , and then provides ongoing service 
support for BES. The "Plug out –Plug in" 
replacement of the excitation system 
requires minimal conversion time. 
Your Benefits
▪Highest possible availability 
and reliability due to robust 
and tried -and-tested 
technology
▪Standardized design
▪Minimum conversion time 
courtesy of "Plug out –Plug 
in" replacement of the 
existing excitation system
▪Low maintenance costs 
through the use of proven 
industry components and 
modular structure
▪Ultra -simple and thus fault -
free operation due to trans -
parent representation of the 
operating status
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG Unrestricted

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Gas Services
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen , Germany
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Gas Services
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
For more information, please contact
Email : electrical -solutions@siemens -energy. com
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose 
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.