© Siemens Energy, 2021                    Page 1
Environmental awareness and resource efficiency require 
new technologies. On January 1, 2015, the new EU F -Gas 
Regulation no. 517/2014 came into effect. It contains a 
number of items of interest for the electrical industry: 
reporting obligations on a frequent basis, training of 
personnel, and labeling and handling. Its main goal is to 
minimize the emission of fluorinated gases (F -gases). 
There is also a movement in parts of the USA and in Korea to 
gradually ban SF6, based on available technology per voltage 
level. This poses new challenges for the electrical industry 
and creates demand for products that are environment -
friendly. Siemens Energy has developed innovative solutions 
that enable easy and secure transmission of electrical power 
free of F -gases. 
Vacuum interrupting technology
Siemens Energy relies on more than 40 years of expertise in 
medium -voltage vacuum -switching technology and many 
years of experience in high -voltage vacuum -switching 
technology. The vacuum high -voltage circuit -breakers for up 
to 145 kV outperforms the SF6circuit -breaker technology: •Reliable making and breaking capabilities
•Excellent interrupting performance at rated nominal 
current and rated short -circuit current
•High -performance and maintenance -free operating 
mechanism
•Highest availability and long working life
The new 8VN1 vacuum clean air gas -insulated switchgear 
(GIS) for up to 145 kV combines proven vacuum -switching 
technology with the advantages of clean air as the insulation 
medium. 
Clean air as insulating medium 
Vacuum interrupting technology allows clean air to be used 
as the insulating medium in gas -insulated switchgear. Clean 
air technology from Siemens Energy is the first solution free 
of F-gases for high -voltage GIS up to 145 kV, and it supports 
the company’s goal to develop completely environmentally 
friendly technologies. 
Clean air technology has a Global Warming Potential (GWP) 
of 0. Clean air is composed of 80 percent N2and 20 percent 
O2, cleaned and free of humidity.
siemens -energy.com/gas -insulated -switchgear
8VN1 Blue GIS ™
up to 145 kV
Vacuum interrupting technology 
and clean air insulation for CO2-
neutral insulation

© Siemens Energy, 2021                    Page 2
Benefits of clean air
Although SF6shows the best characteristics as an insulating 
and arc -quenching medium for GIS, the clean air switchgear 
solution emphasizes the green aspect of the technology free 
of F-gases, and also provides many other benefits.
Clean air is not a hazardous contaminant because its 
emission to the atmosphere is not harmful. The expensive 
purchasing, handling, and recycling costs of other gases do 
not apply. Clean air is a non -toxic, non -harmful, and safe 
medium. No specially trained personnel are needed for the 
transport, handling, or operation of the clean air GIS. 
Only clean air insulation contributes to a carbon neutral 
future.
Main features
•World’s leading environment -friendly and future -proof 
technology free of F -gases
•Climate neutral: Global Warming Potential (GWP) of 
switching and insulation technology = 0
•Innovative, non -toxic clean air insulation medium 
significantly reduces carbon footprint
•In compliance with future norms and standards for 
environment -friendly insulation mediums
•Proven vacuum interrupter technology 
•Maintenance -free vacuum interrupter unit
•Safe and easy handling, no special safety precautions or 
training required
•High operational safety 
•Low operational costs throughout the entire life cycle
•No unknown follow -up costs caused by expected future 
regulations
Other values on request Technical data of switchgear type 8VN1
Rated voltage up to 145 kV
Rated frequency 50/60 Hz
Rated short -duration power -frequency 
withstand voltage (1 min)up to 275 kV
Rated lightning impulse withstand voltage 
(1.2/50 μs)up to 650 kV
Rated continuous current –bus bar up to 3,150 A
Rated continuous current –feeder/bus 
couplerup to 3,150 A
Rated short -circuit breaking current up to 40 kA
Rated peak withstand current up to 108 kA
Rated short -time withstand current 
(up to 3 s)up to 40 kA
Leakage rate per year and gas 
compartment (type -tested)< 0.1 %
Drive mechanism of circuit -breaker stored energy spring
Rated operating sequenceO-0.3 s -CO-3 min -CO
CO-15 s-CO
Interrupter technology vacuum
Insulation medium clean air
Weight of SF6or other fluorinated green -
house gases0 kg
Rated filling pressure 0.8 Mpa (abs.)
Bay width common pole drive 1,000 mm
Bay height, depth 
(depending on bay arrangement)3,200 mm
Bay weight 
(depending on bay arrangement)4.7 t
Ambient temperature range -50°C up to +55 °C
Installation indoor/outdoor
First major inspection > 25 years
Expected lifetime > 50 years
Standards IEC / IEEE
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transmission
Freyeslebenstraße 1
91058 Erlangen, Germany 
For more information, please contact
E-mail : support@siemens -energy.com 
or: circuit -breakers@siemens -energy.com 
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.8VN1 Blue GIS ™up to 145 kV
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo 
modification in the course of further development of the products. 
The requested performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. 