siemens -energ y.com8VQ3 Blue Gas -
Insulated Busducts
New member of our Blue portfolio:  
insulation up to 420 kV with Zero CO2e  
emissions and Zero harm
The urgent need to achieve Zero 
everywhere 
Renewable energy sources areonly part ofthesolution
asweaim forthedecarbonization oftheenergy sector .
It’sessential that weachieve Zero Global Warming
Potential (GWP) inthetransmission ofpower aswell as
initsgeneration .
Most switchgear stilluseSF6forinsulation –agas25,200
times more climate -hostile than CO 2,andone which stays
in the atmosphere for up to 3,200 years.
By contrast, our Blue portfolio, including the 8VQ3 gas -
insulated busducts, uses Zero fluorinated gases of any  
kind and hasZero harmful impact ontheenvironment .
Zero SF6, Zero greenhouse gases 
–just clean air
Theonly way toachieve zero GWP and Zero toxicity isby
using clean air.
The 8VQ3 Blue gas -insulated busducts operate with clean 
air insulation, and thus with Zero harmful greenhouse 
gases of any kind, with Zero toxic decomposition products 
and Zero safety requirements during handling and 
maintenance.
Theclean airused–consisting of80%nitrogen and20%
oxygen, cleaned and free ofhumidity –canbereleased into
theatmosphere with Zero harmful effects topeople orthe
environment .
At the same time, it maintains the highest standards of 
technical performance and reliability, together with low 
lifecycle costs. No specially trained personnel is needed for 
the transport, handling, or operation of the clean air GIB 
up to 420 kV.Essential facts and features
Zero environmental impact
•Zero SF 6and other F -gases
•Zero greenhouse gas emissions
•Zero GWP
Zero regulation
•Zero reporting and accounting of gases required
•Zero F -gas training needed
•Zero issues with current and potential legislation
against F -gases
Zero impact on health & safety
•Zero toxic insulation gases
•Zero toxic decomposition products
•Zero special safety measures needed during 
maintenance
•Zero regulations on handling of gas
•Zero disposal of gases required at end of life
Zero compromise on 
performance and reliability
•Voltage levels up to 420 kV
•Perfect for low temperature applications without 
liquefaction of the insulating medium8VQ3 Blue GIB ™
© Siemens Energy, 2022                    Page 2

Other values on request 8VQ3 Blue GIB ™
Rated voltage up to 420 kV
Rated frequency 50/60 Hz
Rated short -duration power -frequency withstand voltage (1 min) up to 650 kV
Rated lightning impulse withstand voltage (1.2 / 50 μs) up to 1425 kV
Rated switching impulse withstand voltage (250 / 2500 μs) up to 1050 kV 
Rated normal current up to 5000 A
Rated peak withstand current up to 170 kA
Rated short -time withstand current ( up to 3 s) up to 63 kA
Leakage rate per year and gas compartment (type -tested) < 0.1 %
Insulation medium clean air
Weight of SF 6or other fluorinated greenhouse gases 0 kg
Minimum pole distance 1200 mm
Ambient temperature range -50 °C up to +55 °C
Installation indoor / outdoor
First major inspection > 25 years
Expected lifetime > 50 years
Standards IEC / IEEE 
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Switching Products & Systems
Freyeslebenstraße 1
91058 Erlangen, Germany 
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens -energy.com/gas -insulated -switchgear
or contact us:
support@siemens -energy.com 
circuit -breaker@siemens -energy.com 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested performance 
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc
Switching Products & Systems
444 Hwy 49 South
Richland, MS 39218, USATechnical data of 8VQ3 Blue GIB ™