Press release  
 
Orlando , November 22, 2021  
Siemens Energy to Help U.S. Government 
Reduce Emissions on New National 
Oceanographic and Atmospheric 
Administration (NOAA) Ships  
• Siemens Energy will equip two research vessels with advanced diesel -electric propulsion systems 
and battery energy storage solution (lithium -ion batteries)  
• The technologies will reduce operational costs including lowering fuel consumption and 
associated CO 2 emissions by approximately 15,000 gallons per year  and 5,700 tons, respectively.  
 
Thoma -Sea Marine Constructors, LLC awarded Siemens Energy a contract to supply power, 
propulsion, and control systems along with Siemens Energy’s battery storage technology for two 
research vessels. The new ships, named the Oceanographer and Discoverer, are being acquired by 
the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and will support various 
missions, including general oceanographic research and exploration, climate and ocean ecosystem 
studies, and world wide ocean survey and data collection.  
 
Siemens Energy will equip both ships with SiSHIP Blue Drive PlusC™ advanced diesel -electric 
propulsion systems and BlueVault™ Battery Storage Solutions. The combination of technologies will 
enable additional fuel sa vings and emissions reductions by allowing NOAA to optimize loading on 
variable speed diesel engines. It will also reduce maintenance associated with the engines.  
 
Walter Thomassie, managing director, Thoma -Sea Marine Constructors, L.L.C. stated “The NOAA 
NAV Variant is truly the result of an intense, collaborative effort by the Thoma -Sea Marine team, 
analyzing and implementing the best solutions brought by the shipyard, our design agent (TAI), 
Siemens Energy, and others. As the first shipyard to install an d commission the Siemens Energy 
Blue Drive PlusC™ advanced diesel -electric propulsion systems in the United States, Thoma -Sea 
immediately recognized Siemens Energy was able to optimize the system according to our 
specifications to further enhance the vesse l’s capabilities and efficiencies.”  
 Press release  

Press release  
 
Anil Raj PE, president and chief engineer of TAI Engineers said “TAI Engineers worked closely with 
Thoma -Sea Marine and Siemens Energy to develop, for the government, an optimal vessel design 
with superior performance. The Siemens Energy installation helped in providing an ideal solution to 
maximize the vessel’s endurance, reduce fuel consumption and minimiz e its carbon footprint.  
 
Compared to vessels with traditional fixed -speed diesel engines of similar size and operating profile, 
it’s estimated that the technology provided by Siemens Energy will lead to fuel savings of 15,000 
gallons per year for each ves sel – resulting in a reduction of approximately 5,700 tons of CO 2. To 
offset this amount would require planting more than 370,000 trees.   
 
 “We are proud to work alongside our project partners Thoma -Sea and TAI Engineers, and the 
operators NOAA, and Naval Sea Systems Command, to build these two state -of-the-art research 
vessels. The contract award is a testament to the performance and reliability of our advanced 
emissions reducing technologies families, which have developed an extensive track record a cross a 
broad range of marine applications in recent years.” said Luke Briant, Head of Marine Solutions 
Americas at Siemens Energy.  
 
The SiSHIP Blue Drive PlusC™ diesel propulsion technology has been installed on more than 80 
marine vessels worldwide, incl uding the world’s first all -electric car ferry, and the world’s largest 
cruise PAX ferry.  
 
The two NOAA vessels are scheduled to enter operation in 2024 and 2025 respectively.  Each will 
host a crew of 20 and can accommodate up to 28 scientists.  
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Stacia Licona  
Phone:  +1 (281) 721 -3402  
E-mail:  stacia.licona@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release is available at https://press.siemens -energy.com/global/en/pressrelease/siemens -
energy-help-us-government -reduce-emissions -new-national-oceanographic -and 
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
  
Press release  
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and service s, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydro gen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energie s. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of $32.4 billion in fiscal year 2021 . 
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 