 Page 1/2  
Press  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG Munich, June 26, 2020 
 
Siemens Energy establishes network for 
efficient energy storage solutions  
 
 Siemens Energy launches "Future of Storage" initiative to promote 
sustainable energy systems  
 Ecosystem of technology partners for energy storage solutions created 
 Long-term cooperation with Norwegian EnergyNest on thermal energy 
storage 
 
Siemens Energy has launched the "Future of Storage" initiative. The aim of the 
initiative is to bundle knowledge and build an ecosystem of technology partners in 
order to offer energy storage solutions tailored to customers' needs. Decarbonizing 
the world's energy systems is one of the key goals of Siemens Energy. An essential 
component of climate-friendly energy systems of the future will be efficient energy 
storage systems - they compensate for the fluctuating feed-in of renewable energies 
and stabilize the grids, making them a key driver of decarbonization. 
 
With "Future of Storage", a global team of experts is being formed that covers all 
available energy storage technologies, from batteries to thermal and thermo-
mechanical energy storage systems. "We want to offer every customer the optimal 
energy storage solution that best suits their needs," explains Anette Ossege-
Schaffrath, who heads the team at Siemens Energy. "To do this, we need access to 
a broad portfolio of storage technologies. We need to have the necessary expertise 
and develop suitable business models. With Future of Storage, we are creating an 
important prerequisite for achieving these goals," she says. 
 
"Energy storage is the key to a decarbonized world," says Jörn Schmücker, CEO 
Large Rotating Equipment at Siemens Energy and sponsor of the initiative. "With 
Future of Storage and our partner ecosystem, we will be able to offer our customers 
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann 
 Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1 
80333 Munich 
Germany 
  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG Press Release 
 
 Page 2/2 exactly the solutions that fit their needs - with the advantage of improving the 
efficiency and thus the profitability of their plants.“ 
 
At the beginning of June, Siemens Energy entered into a long-term partnership with 
the Norwegian technology company EnergyNest. The start-up is a supplier of 
thermal energy storage systems. The aim of the partnership is to jointly offer 
modularized and standardized thermal energy storage systems for industrial 
customers. EnergyNest has developed a heat battery that can be charged with 
renewable energy or with waste heat and can discharge completely renewable 
steam directly into customers' plants when required. This reduces the demand for 
fossil generated heat and at the same time increases the flexibility of the plants. 
 
This press release is available at sie.ag/3864nC8   
For further information on sustainable energy, please see sie.ag/3dDpVY9   
 
Contact for journalists 
Julian Flentge 
Phone: +49 172 3220445; E-mail: julian.flentge@siemens.com  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens group, which has been 
working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands of industry and society for more than 150 years. 
With planned stock listing, Siemens’ energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future.  
It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a comprehensive portfolio for utilities, 
independent power producers, transmission system operators, the oil and gas industry, and other energy-intensive 
industries. With its products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, 
processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central and distributed thermal 
power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the energy transformation, including storage and sector-
coupling solutions. The majority stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future-oriented 
portfolio. With its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, Siemens Energy 
will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers on their path to a more sustainable future. 
With around 90,000 employees worldwide, Siemens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and 
tomorrow. www.siemens.com.  