siemens-energy.com/electrolyzerHydrogen  
and Power-to-X 
solutions
Versatile and scalable technology to  
make a difference in the energy transition
Page 2
Hydrogen and Power-to-X solutionsChallenges
• How to decarbonize industry, mobility, buildings, and other sectors, 
which cannot easily be electrified?
• How to harness sector coupling to use renewable hydrogen and its 
derivatives – including e-Methanol, e-Ammonia, and e-Fuels – to make 
green energy available to these hard-to-abate sectors?
• How to bring renewable energy from energy-rich regions like South 
America, North Africa, and Australia to energy-hungry industrial centers 
like North America, Europe, and Japan?
Cost-efficient green hydrogen 
from renewable energy
 
Up-scaling of the existing 
technology and manufacturing 
 
How to ensure the  
availability and reliability 
of this young technology
FinancingSolutions
• We offer products, engineering and strong solution capabilities 
and a strong partner ecosystem across the whole hydrogen and 
Power-to-X value chain for the industry, mobility, and energy
sectors.
• Gigawatt-scale production: We are prepared for delivery at Giga-
watt scale through automation and digitalization of manufac-
turing.
• Scale-up is becoming a reality with projects in implementation
based on our modular Elyzer P-3001 platform from 6 MW in 
H2Future to 200 MW in Normand’Hy and more to come in all 
sectors.
• CertaLink Energy Certificate provides tamper-proof documenta-
tion that a product has a renewably generated origin.
• Services delivered from Siemens Energy’s global service network.
We offer our customers services that extend from installation to 
maintenance of the electrolyzer system throughout its entire 
lifecycle, including recycling and refurbishment.
1 The product name was changed from Silyzer 300. Elyzer P-300 is a trademark of  
Siemens Energy GmbH &  Co. KG or affiliated registered in one or more countries.Other challenges:  
Page 2
France – Normand‘HyeMethanol 5 0MW
Germany – Trailblazer 
H₂ for Industry 8. 5MW
H₂ for Industry 6MWDenmark – Kassø 
Germany – Wunsiedel
Austria – H 2FutureH₂ for Industry 20 0MW
H₂ for Industry ≤20MWCertaLink Energy Certiﬁcate
Chile – Haru Oni
Germany – Hy4Chem-EI 
H₂ for Industry 54  MWColor code:
H₂ for Industry
eFuel
CertaLink Energy Certiﬁcate
more referencesElectrolyzer references
Page 3
Hydrogen and Power-to-X solutions
Page 4
Hydrogen and Power-to-X solutionsTrailblazer Project  – Green Hydrogen  
for Air Liquide pipeline infrastructure
Kassø PtX Project  - First large-scale e-Methanol 
project for marine use in Europe
Use cases:
• Hydrogen for 
e-Methanol (e.g. 
MAERSK) and for 
fuel blending (e.g. 
Circle K) – 1000 kg 
per hour
• Decarbonize the 
world’s shipping 
industryPotential:
• Fast track project 
(bid and execu -
tion)
• First large-scale 
e-Methanol plant 
build by customerSolution:
• 3 full Arrays Elyzer 
P-300, transform -
ers, rectifiers, and 
demin water 
plant, commis -
sioning by SE 
Denmark
• Powered by 
largest solar park 
in ScandinaviaUse cases:
• Hydrogen for 
Industry and 
 mobilityPotential:
• Connect hydrogen 
production to 
both existing 
hydrogen and 
oxygen pipelines
• Potential to 
expand to 30 MW 
total planned 
capacitySolution:
• Operation of a 
24-module array 
Elyzer P-300¹
• One of the largest 
renewable hydro -
gen and oxygen 
production plants 
of GermanyPower dimension:  up to 20 MW based on
  Elyzer P-3001
Commissioning:         2024
Location:  Oberhausen, Germany
Customer:  Air LiquidePo
wer dimension:  50 MW
Commissioning:   2024
Location:  Kassø Solar Park, Denmark
Customer:  Solar Park Kassø ApS (100% 
                                           owned by European Energy)
1 The product name was changed from Silyzer 300. Elyzer P-300 is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH &  Co. KG or affiliated registered in one or more countries.
H₂ Re-Electrification
via
orH₂ -ready
Gas TurbineFuel CellCO₂-Capture
Synthesis
ProcessesRenewable Power Grid Connection
BatteriesOptionalElectrolysis
H₂ Compression 
& Auxiliaries
H₂-StorageMolecules
Methanol
Electrons
KeroseneAmmonia
SAF
Electricity
Hydrogen
E-LiquidsEnergy Landscape: Power-to-X and Hybrid Power Solutions
Decarbonization and cost optimization through integrated,  
customized technology.
Power-to-X (PtX) and Hybrid Power Solutions are always a 
subset of the depicted energy landscape. In PtX applications, 
hydrogen is converted into molecules along the energy land-
scape via a synthesis process, but there is no re-electrification.
By integrating different technologies, our customized solutions 
are tailored to your local challenges and needs, regardless of 
remote locations, grid access, existing network or decarboniza-
tion requirements.
The challenges are many – but the solution is simple with a 
 Power-to-X or Hybrid Power Solutions from Siemens Energy.
• Powerful and intelligent  
Integrating multiple technologies through advanced 
control capabilities for simplified, improved and  
efficient operation of complex energy systems
• Powerfully sustainable  
through an increased share of renewable energies in  
power generation
• Powerful and reliable  
through the integration of storage solutions
Page 5
Hydrogen and Power-to-X solutions
*Equivalent Operating Hours
Page 6
Hydrogen and Power-to-X solutions
Elyzer P-3001 – Technical Data
PEM Electrolysis – how does it work?
For our hydrogen electrolyzer system, we focus on 
PEM technology taking its name from the proton 
exchange membrane. The membrane’s special 
property is that it is permeable to protons but not 
to gases such as hydrogen or oxygen. As a result, 
in an electrolytic process the membrane takes on, 
among other things, the function of a separator 
that prevents the product gases from mixing.
Benefits of PEM Electrolysis
• High power density 
• High dynamic operation range; direct coupling to renewables 
• High efficiency and low module internal losses 
• High gas purities 
• Extreme low standby consumption 
• Low maintenance needs 
• Consumes only water and power, no hazardous chemicals Electrolysis type: PEM Atmospheric 
Output Pressure (array): 100 mbar 
Plant efficiency: > 75.5% 
Minimum load: down to 40%
Demineralized water  
consumption: < 10 l per kg hydrogen 
Hydrogen quality: up to 99.999% with de-oxo dryer
Startup time: < 1 minute 
Dynamics: up to 10  % 
Stack design: Optimized for 80k EOH*. Operation 
beyond 80k EOH possible.
17.5 MW
plant power  
demand24  
stacks 
to build a full  
stack  array
>75.5 %
plant  
efficiency
335 kg
hydrogen  
per hour
1 The product name was changed from Silyzer 300. Elyzer P-300 is a trademark of Siemens 
Energy GmbH &  Co. KG or affiliated registered in one or more countries.
Page 7
Hydrogen and Power-to-X solutionsService
Service packages   
Basic: Get the foundation for a smooth, economical and safe 
operation of your electrolysis system with a package of mainte-
nance, spare parts, hotline support & digital services.
Advance: Best insurance against unforeseen downtime. Expanded 
the basic package to further reduce risks and to safeguard your 
business case for your electrolysis plant.
Integrated: Total peace of mind – since operating efficiency and 
value creation are your priorities, let us take care of your electrolysis 
plant. We strive to enhance the value of your plant operations.Digital services  
We offer innovation by utilizing state-of-the-art digital service to 
drive operational excellence of your plant.
We are prepared for the future of scheduled maintenance, asset
management or digital twin studies to maximize your plant avail-
ability and operating efficiency. Performance enhancement services   
Your path to maximum performance assuring operational reliablilty 
and efficient performance of your electrolysis plant.
Discover our stack exchange offerings of 
• recycled and refurbished stacks. Ensuring quality without 
compromising your budget and sustainability goals
• stack upgrades based on our continous research and develop-
ment for the latest technical enhancement.
Together we outperform: Custom-tailored service contracts

Page 8
Hydrogen and Power-to-X solutions
Industrial scale production  
of Electrolyzer in Berlin
 Both the United States and European Union are aiming 
for many Gigawatts of electrolyzer manufacturing 
capacity to drive the energy transition. We are starting 
the required massive scaling-up and acceleration of 
manufacturing: In 2023, industrial production of PEM 
electrolysis stacks began at our multi-Gigawatt electrolyzer facility in Berlin – highly automated 
according to latest production standards – and can be 
ramped up to an annual production capacity of three Scalable electrolysis 
system
• Minimize on-site installa -
tion
• Clearly defined interfaces 
maximize standardization
• Pre-engineered for contract 
manufacturingLocalized decentralized 
packaging
• High quality by pre-  
assembling
• Transportable units
• Local Packagers in key 
regions facilitate local 
value chainCost efficient multi-  
Gigawatt stack factory
• Highly automated central 
PEM manufacturing accord -
ing to latest production 
standards
• Large quantities and strong 
supply chain management
• Strong partner relation -
ships for supply of key 
components 
Gigawatts, depending on demand. It is furthermore 
possible to increase production capacity by one 
Gigawatt per year.
Elyzer P-300-based hydrogen plant
Page 9
Hydrogen and Power-to-X solutions
Rectifier
Medium voltage  
(MV) transformerRectifier cooling
& control cabinetsGroups incl.
stacks
Water 
refinement unitHydrogen and
oxygen coolersHydrogen buffer tank & 
water treatment plantCompression
SwitchgearFirefighting
system
Nitrogen supply & 
compressed air skidCooling water
pumpsAir cooling
system
De-Oxo and
chillerWe deliver what we promise
Highest standards in safety  
and project excellence
• Certified project managers
• ISO9001 Quality Management System
• Safety is IN our DNA
Cost efficiency and  
operational  performance
• Fast start-up and shut-down
• Highest operational flexibility 
• Cold start capability
• Reduction of OPEX due to maintenance-free 
stack and available recycling concept
• Competitive hydrogen price per kg at green 
electricity prices below 3 ct / kWh
Green Hydrogen  
Solutions
• Proven industrial-grade large-scale electro-
lyzer systems > 200,000 operating hours in 
MW range 
The electrolysis system and compressor are indoor equipment. The halls have been removed to explain the components
1 The product name was changed from Silyzer 300. Elyzer P-300 is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH & Co. KG or affiliated registered in one or more countries.
Page 10
Hydrogen and Power-to-X solutions
Optimized plant designIndustrial scale 
• Double-digit Megawatt PEM  electrolysis system. 
• Modular design scales up to Gigawatt plants 
• Ready for high volume production: Automated production 
for a flexible ramp up of the Gigawatt factory.
Lowest investment costs 
• Modular design / scaling effects minimize investment costs 
for  large-scale industrial electrolysis plants. 
• Simple design for economic system and reliable operation 
with natural circulation within the array 
• Pre-engineered, standardized and pre-packaged arrays 
reduce  project risks and accelerate execution
• Recycling concept enables cost reduction for moderniza-
tions and upgrades
Future proof 
• High dynamics meet the challenge of integrating fluctuat-
ing renewable energy sources. 
• Plant design flexibility 
• Dependable service concept 
• Different packages for different project needs: from basic 
maintenance activities to comprehensive all-round service 
using state-  of-the-art data analysis.50 MW reference plant 
Rated plant power: 50 MW
Total electrolysis plant space (L × W ): 55 m × 71 m
Dimensions electrolysis system hall (L × W × H): 35.5 m × 15.5 m × 9 m
Hydrogen production (kg / hour) approx. 1,000
Oxygen production (kg / hour) approx. 8,000100 MW reference plant 
Rated plant power: 100 MW
Total electrolysis plant space (L × W ): 197 m × 99 m
Dimensions electrolysis system hall (L × W × H): 77 m × 18 m × 10,5 m
Hydrogen production (kg / hour) approx. 2,000
Oxygen production (kg / hour) approx. 16,000
Page 10
Page 11
Hydrogen and Power-to-X solutionsProve your product is green  
with CertaLink Energy Certificate
Siemens Energy offers the Clean Energy Certification digital 
service to track the environmental impact of energy 
production by issuing automated, timely, and government-ap -
proved certificates across sectors and across borders through 
partnerships with independent, accredited bodies and other 
companies in the energy sector.
CertaLink Energy Certificate ensure traceability of the carbon-
neutral origin of energy production, energy imports, and energy 
consumption. Getting green versions of products and fuels will be 
a significant part of the transition to a carbon-neutral economy.Our CertaLink Energy Certificate will establish the proof of origin  
of energy and will satisfy the market needs of the whole range of 
Power-to-X customers, allowing them to:
• Gain customs and tax reductions,
• Achieve higher market prices for products produced by clean 
energy,
• Meet future governmental requirements (e.g. EU program  
“Fit for 55”), and
• Enable the trading of clean energy on stock exchanges and in 
other marketplaces.
Legally 
compliantInstant & 
automated  
issuanc eApplicable 
across borde rs 
& sector s100%  
transparenc yLow 
cost
CertaLink Energy Certificate ensure 
traceability of the carbon-neutral origin 
of energy production, energy imports, 
and energy consumption. Getting green 
versions of products and fuels will be 
a significant part of the transition to a 
carbon-neutral economy.
siemens-energy.com/clean-energy-certificates
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen
Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry
4400 N Alafaya Trail 
Orlando, FL 32826
USA
For more information, please visit our website: 
www.siemens-energy.com/electrolyzer
© Siemens Energy 2024
This document contains general descriptions of products and expected capabilities 
or benefits which may not apply or be realized in all cases. Nothing in this 
document shall be deemed or construed to be a warranty or guarantee of the 
information, product(s) or component(s) described herein. Contact us for more 
information and an offer for your specific application.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.