 
   sheet 1 of 10 
 
 
  
siemens -energy.com  SIPREC ODS  
Electrostatic Precipitator  – Operation, Visualization, 
Data Archiving,  Optimization & D iagnostic  

 
   sheet 2 of 10 
SIPREC ODS Functions   
The SIPREC ODS application  is based on 
WINDOWS operating system and supports the 
Siemens Energy high voltage power supply 
systems for electrostatic precipitators (ESPs). 
SIPREC ODS (SCADA) connects simultaneously 
to all high voltage power supply controller s 
for comfortable central oper ation, 
visualization, data archiving of measured 
operating values, for optimization of the ESP 
operation and diagnostic purposes.  
SIPREC ODS optimize s the ESP collecting 
efficiency to achieve lowest power 
consumption. The extensive diagnostic 
functions bes ide the fault analysis enable the 
evaluation of the ESP operating process and provide information for the predictive maintenance. Furthermore, the diagnostic 
functions also form the basis for the fast and 
inexpensive Siemens Energy remote service.  
The following SIPREC ODS software versions 
are available:  
 
 SIPREC ODS 
Light  SIPREC ODS 
Full Version  
SIPREC ODS Server  x x 
SIPREC ODS Client  x x 
DataArc  x x 
Autostart   x 
FuzzyOpt   x 
RappCtrl   x 
DataCopy  x x 
Month Report   x 
 
In addition, SIPREC ODS single  client  licenses are 
offered for client installations at additional 
workplaces.  
The SIPREC ODS Server coordinates the bus 
communication to the ESP controller relieving 
bus traffic. Furthermore, the SIPREC ODS Server provides the data for  multiple SI PREC ODS client 
installations at different locations of the TCP/IP network. The SIPREC ODS client user rights can 
be individual ly adjusted. With the SIP REC 
Autostart  function the single SIPREC ODS 
applications are starting automatically.  
 
 
 
SIPREC ODS Requirements  
For the installation of SIP REC ODS a PC or 
laptop is required with WINDOWS 7 or 
WINDOWS 10 operating system. SIPREC ODS 
supports the following ESP controll er: 
 
• SIFUPIC F  
• PIC410F  
• PIC420F  
• SIPREC T  
• SIPREC I  
 
The controls provide an optical interface and support USS or PROFIBUS.  PCF optical fiber 
cables are used for the connection.  
USS-Bus: 
A special USS -bus adapter is used to convert 
the optical signals  to connect to PC Serial 
interface or USB.  
Multiple Controls can be star -coupled via an 
SIPREC PICOLM 5s  
PROFIBUS:  
The Optical link module ( OLM ) is used to 
convert from optical bus to electrical bus which 
can be connected to the PROFIBUS 

 
   sheet 3 of 10 
Communication Pr ocessor of the SIPREC  PC 
( e.g. CP5711 / CP5613 / CP 5623 . . . ) .   
Multiple Controls can be star -coupled or bus -
connected via SIPREC PICOLM 5s, OLM P11/P12 
or similar devices.   
 
SIPREC ODS is a PROFIBUS Master. For the 
parallel operation of SIPREC ODS with other 
PROFIBUS masters such as PLC or DCS on the 
same PROFIBUS segment, the other master must have multi -master capability.  
Required for the remote service is an existing 
internet connection as well as a possibility for 
remote access and remote control with 
appropriate access rights.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Operation / Visualization 
The parameter settings of the ESP controls are 
clearly displayed in tabular form in various 
frames/dialogs. In addition, a parameter report with configurable content is available in which 
parameter settings can also be made. The 
parameter settings can be saved (clipboard, 
PDF, specific file), printed, reloaded and 
transferred to the controls.  
Example for parameter settings  and report : 
     
 
 
 
        ……..  
  

 
   sheet 4 of 10 
Example for visualization of measured values : 
 
 
 
 
Visualization f eatures:  
• selectable views  
• overview for different ESP's  
• tabular and 3D graphical representation of 
all measured values (HV power supplies and 
process signals)  • status messages of all H.V. power supplies 
and rapper drives  
• operation of individual T/R sets or ESP group  
• adjustable scale  
 
Data Archiving and Trend 
Charts  
All measurement values and status signals of 
the ESP controls as well as process signals, are 
stored in individual daily archive files  in a 
selectable time- interval . The data can either be 
displayed with the trend function or imported 
into Excel or similar for further analysis.  
 
Trend chart features:  
• max. 10 signals visualized simultaneously  
• max. 16 signals selectable per ESP controller  
• individual presentation and scaling  
• sample rate up to 1sec.  
• 1h or 24h time axis  
• zooming  
• selectable averag e calculation  
• pre-selected profiles can be stored and 
loade d  
• trends can be copied to clipboard and 
printed  
 The data archiving is an independent 
application that runs in the background. This 
means that the rec ording of the measured 
values is not interrupted when the SIPREC ODS Client program is closed.  

 
   sheet 5 of 10 
Optimizations  
SIPREC ODS includes the separate application 
FuzzyOpt through the optimizations, e.g. the 
energy minimization is carried out depending 
on the emiss ion monitoring signal and is based 
on fuzzy logic.  
Different ESP designs (number of electrical fields in series, number of parallel zones, ESPs in parallel or series connection) can be easily 
configured and up to 10 ESP systems can be 
optimized at the same time. 10 independent 
parameter sets are available, through which 
individual settings for different process 
conditions (start- up / shutdown operation, 
partial / full load, different fuels / primary 
materials etc.) can be specified.  
 
 
 
The optimization program first transforms 
the ESP configuration into a 3- zone model. 
Depending on the settings made for each parameter set and the ESP configuration, the 
potential for each of the  3 zones of the ESP 
model is determined cyclically. After eac h 
cycle, the reverse transformation takes place 
with individual setpoints for each ESP 
controller.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
If the ESP controller control the rapper systems, 
the collecting electrode rapping is coordinated by the SIPREC ODS RapCtrl  application to avoid 
emission peaks caused by  unwanted  
simultaneous rapping  of consecutive ESP fields. 
Like FuzzyOpt , RapCtrl  is a separate application 
that runs in the background.  
 
Diagnosis  
Numerous diagnostic functions are available 
with SIPREC ODS thanks to the adjustable 
measurement data recording of the ESP 
control ler and the available operating data. 
These enable an operational analysis of the 
high voltage power supply, the ESP control ler 
and the ESP without the need for additional 
measuring equipment.  
Oscilloscope Function   
The recording parameters  are selected in  
SIPREC ODS and transferred to the ESP controls. 
After the measurement data have been 
transmitted, they are displayed in the 
oscilloscope window . 

 
   sheet 6 of 10 
 
 
Oscilloscope features:  
• sampling rate minimum 100µs with 3 curves 
simultaneously (ESP voltage / current, 
primary current)  
• trigger mode AUTO, SINGLE, NORMAL  
• trigger on  e.g. flashover, ESP voltage/ 
current, primary current  
• adjustable trigger delay  
• zooming  
• charts can be stored, reloaded and printed  
• import of measured values into WINDOWS 
Excel for further analysis  
• open as many oscilloscope windows  as 
controllers connected and run them simultaneously  
• recorder function for sample rates above 
50ms/DIV  
• automatic storage of oscilloscope recordings  
for unattended recording and later 
evaluation  
 
The oscilloscope feature is always connected 
without no need to connect/disconnect measuring wires to the cubicles or to walk around with additional equipment saving time 
and effort
. 
 V / I Curve Scanning  
The V / I characteristic is used to diagnose the 
ESP electrical field operation and the 
mechanical state of the electrical field in 
comparison to other fields or to different 
operating conditions (e.g. with / without load).  
 
 
V / I curve features:  
• scanning ESP current and ESP voltage 
(minimum / maximum and average value)  
• selection of scaling and curve  
• charts can be stored, reloaded and printed  
• zooming  
• measured values importable into Windows 
Excel  
• scan of V  / I curve with ESP overview 
individual or with one mouse click  
 
Status Messages  
A quick overview of all digital and analog 
inputs / outputs of the filter controls is given. In 
this way, interface errors can be identified 
quickly.  

 
   sheet 7 of 10 
 
 
Parameter History  
The history of the parameter changes carried 
out via SIPREC ODS is logged. The effects of changed  parameter settings can be verified 
with  the trend charts.   
 
 
Fault History  
The error messages of the ESP controls are displayed with the date, time, status of the 
fault and fault message. With double-click on a fault message, the trend chart is 
automatically opened at the time of the 
fault. 
  
 
The errors are also saved in the archive files. 
An additional SIPREC ODS tool analyzes all 
archive files and creates a statistic  with 
grouped fault events.  
 
Additional Features  
Month Report  
With the month report the power consumption 
of all ESP's including the opacity values are summarized per month in a table or as 3D 
chart. The data also can be imported into 
Windows Excel.  
 
 
 
 
 

 
   sheet 8 of 10 
Data Copy  
With this tool, the archive files of a selectable 
time frame can be copied or moved for further 
use. 
 
 
Services  
Services in conjunction with SIPREC ODS are 
provide on -site or by the Siemens Energy 
remote service for:  
 
• Fault analysis and troubleshooting  
• Commissioning / support for 
commissioning  
• Evaluation / optimization of ESP operation after changed operating 
condit ions 
• System check for predictive 
maintenance  
• Customer training  
• Software upgrades  
 
Fault A nalysis and Troubleshooting  
The archived SIPREC ODS data (fault and 
oscilloscope history, trend charts etc.) of the 
high voltage transformer rectifier systems is 
analy zed. Additional tests and detailed analyzes 
are carried out depending on the type of fault.  In case of the remote service this is carried out 
in cooperation with the customer personnel on-site.  
In case of a hardware failure instructions are 
provided for the exchange to be carried out by 
customer staff .  
 
Commissioning / Support for Commissioning  
The commissioning of the high  voltage power 
supply  is typically carried out by our special 
commissioning engineers on- site with SIPREC 
ODS  as the basic equipment.  However, if this 
should not be possible due to e.g. travel 
requirements, the commissioning can also be 
carried out by remote service in conjunc tion 
with on -site staff. For this, SIPREC ODS must be 
available on - site.  
 
Optimization of ESP controller parameter 
settings  
A change in the ESP operating conditions 
(primary material, increased load, changed ESP 
mechanical condition  etc.) typically requir es 
optimization of the ESP controller parameters 
to maintain the best possible ESP collecting 
efficiency. The optimization will be carried out 
in conjunction with the available emission monitoring signal (continuous measurement 
downstream of the ESP). The emission 
monitoring signal must be available to SIPREC 
ODS. Is this signal not available, t he 
optimization is carried out by maximizing the 
corona power.  
  

 
   sheet 9 of 10 
System C heck  
Typically,  a detailed system check is carried out 
once a year consisting of:  
High voltage power supplies  
• Analysis of the available archive/log 
files (measured values, fault history, 
warnings etc.)  
• Analysis of the controller digital 
input/output signals  
• Analysis of  the controller analogue 
input wave forms (oscilloscope)  
• Analysis of the optical fiber connection 
to the transformer rectifier sets  
• Evaluation of all operating values with 
recommendations for eliminating 
operating faults or preventive measures  
 
SIPREC ODS PC  / laptop  
• Review/analysis of hardware and 
software resources (memory capacity, 
CPU usage, task manager processes / 
system services, etc.)  
• Review/analysis of the bus connection 
between the ESP controller and SIPREC 
ODS  
• Checking the connection to the remote control  
• Implementation of minor optimizations  
(parameters, settings, etc.)  
• Storage of inspection and maintenance 
activities  
 
Customer Training  
With the help of SIPREC ODS and the 
documents provided for the training, the 
following topics are typically trained : 
• SIPREC ODS –  operation and use  of 
applications   • SIPREC high voltage power supply –  
operation and functionality, fault analysis / 
troublesh ooting, maintenance  
• ESP –  function, operating conditions, fault 
analysis  
 
Software Upgrade 
With an additional function of SIPREC ODS, the 
latest software updates are loaded into the ESP 
controls, adjustments to the settings are made 
and the new functions are checked under 
operating c onditions.  
 
Reporting  
For each service carried out, a specific detailed 
report is provided presenting:  
• Information on the work carried out  
• Measurement and analysis results  
• Parameter report  
• Compilation of commissioning data (commissioning checklist)  
• Recommendations for the 
maintenance of the high voltage power supplies and ESP(s)  
 
 
 
    sheet 10 of 10 
Take advantage from our experience  
 
We are looking forward answering your questions concerning the modernization of ESP high voltage 
power supplies, the data exchange to the PLC / DCS, the possible increase in ESP collecting efficiency, 
potential for power savings or other questions related to the ESP operation.  
 
Just get in contact with us.  
 
           
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
SE GP G IC DE Electrostatic Precipitator  
Freyeslebenstrasse 1,  
91058  ERLANGEN, Germany  
For more information, please visit our website:  
www. siemens -energy.com  
Or sent an email to :  siprec.energy@siemens -energy.com  
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those  
described, or which may undergo modification in the course of  
further development of the products. The requested performance  
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in  
the concl uded contract.  
 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.    
   