As a top tier supplier of 
compressors, Siemens Energy
has the domain expertise and 
experience across the range of 
several well-known legacy brands 
of compressors including the 
Siemens legacy and the Dresser-
Rand legacy. This expertise comprises both the 
compressors themselves as well as the decades of 
experience in compressor control. The enhanced 
Compressor Train One Control (in the following ab-
breviated as One Control) core functions are used 
in both the worldwide leading SIMATIC PCS 7/S7 
automation product family from Siemens Energy 
or the well-established Allen-Bradley.
Siemens Energy’s One Control anti-surge
algorithm is based on a patented universal control 
map that is used to accurately predict the surge 
point over a wide range of changing conditions, 
especially in process applications with variable gas 
composition.
siemens-energy.comCompressor Train
One Control
Anti-Surge Control
Application
The One Control anti-surge controller provides optimum 
safety of the overall plant as the energy costs, lifetime of  
the compressor and quality of the overall process depend  
on closedloop control. The system is specially designed for 
compressor applications that can react extremely quickly to 
changes in volume flow and pressure at the compressor. It 
protects the compressor from surging in an uncontrolled  
flow event that invokes large variations in pressure and cyclic 
reversal of the direction of flow. If excessive surges occur, 
high levels of vibration and excessive thermal loading will 
result. Damage to various components of the compressor, 
such as bearings, seals, impellers, and rotors can occur which 
can cause significant repair costs and production outages. 
Even in the absence of any obvious damage, the service life 
and efficiency of the compressor will be adversely affected.
Surge Control Operation
Figure 1 illustrates the use of the universal surge control map. 
The compressor flow setpoint is provided by the control line. 
The control line is positioned to the right of the surge line 
which provides a safety margin for the surge controller PI 
(Proportional & Integral) algorithm. The PI control loop is 
used to compare the control setpoint to the operating point 
of the compressor and provides an output to the surge valve 
to prevent the flow from decreasing below the control line. 
The optimum control line in relation to the surge line is 
determined either in a factory in-house test or during an 
on-site commissioning test.
Under normal operating conditions, PI control is used, and 
surge control action is initiated at the control line by opening 
the surge valve as required to maintain forward flow through 
the compressor. This prevents the compressor operating point 
from reaching the surge line.Backup Line with Valve Step Function
The backup line is positioned between the surge line and the 
control line (ref. to figure 1) and provides a basis for 
additional control action. If the operating point of the 
compressor de-creases to flow values less than those defined 
by the backup line, traditional PI control is overridden by the 
Open Loop Step Logic control function to facilitate rapid 
opening of the anti-surge valve.
The anti-surge valve position is forced to increase in discrete, 
timed steps, thus opening the valve much quicker than 
possible with conventional PI control. Compressor surge is 
avoided by this quick incremental control of the surge valve 
thus minimizing the effects of process upsets.
Setpoint Shift
If the flow decreases to the backup line a predetermined 
number of times (adjustable) within a given period 
(indicating a recur-ring problem), the surge control setpoint is 
shifted to the right via the Setpoint Shift Logic. This action 
establishes a larger mar-gin of safety from the surge line.
The flow setpoint continues to be shifted as necessary until 
the backup line crossings cease. The intent of the setpoint 
shift is to prevent surge until the cause of the instability can 
be corrected. This bias remains in effect until reset by the 
operator.
Floating Proportional Algorithm
Derivative action as known from a conventional PID controller 
would tend to make the compressor control unstable.
Thus, the derivative gain is replaced by a Floating 
Proportional gain action that takes effect when normal PI 
control response would be too slow to prevent compressor 
flow from dropping below the control line during rapid 
system upsets. To cope with this challenge, the Floating 
Proportional Control Algorithm is initiated, and anti-surge 
valves are opened preemptively for fast changes in flow 
before the operating point reaches the control line. This 
function is triggered if both the operating point is close to  
the surge limit line and the flow is decreasing too rapidly.
Normal PI control is resumed when the process upset has 
been stabilized.However, there are cases where the PI control cannot cope 
with the operational changes. In the case of rapid reductions 
in flow, such as process upsets, three additional controls are 
implemented.
First , a backup line, located between the control line and the 
surge line, is used. If the operating point reaches this line, the 
One Control’s Open Loop Step Logic quickly forces the surge 
valve open as required to increase forward flow through the 
compressor.
Second , if the operating point of the compressor reaches the 
backup line a certain number of times within a specified 
period, the control setpoint will be shifted to the right via 
One Control’s Setpoint Shift Logic.
Third , a variable proportional gain action has been added to 
the control loop to assist in stabilizing the process when rapid 
de-creases in compressor flow are encountered.
Figure 1: Universal Control Map
Adaptive Control
Unlike conventional anti-surge applications, the One Control 
anti-surge controller automatically adjusts PI gains to 
optimum values if the default gains set at the time of unit 
commissioning cannot adequately provide timely control 
response under changing process conditions.Decoupling
In case of multiple controllers or a multi-variable system, the 
relation between controller output and input might be 
coupled, which is a characteristic property. For a control 
system that has independent inputs and outputs, a 
decoupling mechanism might be necessary.
One Control has several decoupling mechanisms integrated 
to decouple the integrated controllers:
o Decoupling ASC ↔ ASC
o Decoupling ASC ↔ Performance controller
o Decoupling ASC ↔ Load sharing controller
Surge Protection *)
The surge protection application is used to protect the machin-
ery from damage as a result of repeated surge events. Surge 
cycles are often accompanied by flow reversals and high varia-
tions of process variables. This is why One Control offers two 
kinds of surge protection.
*) There is a separate technical flyer available on this topic
Surge protection - Control Deviation mode
The Control Deviation mode of surge protection is included  
within the anti-surge controller function. This type of surge 
protection is monitoring the compressor operation point in 
rela-tion to the control line. The monitor is activated when the 
control deviation falls below a preset negative value. The surge 
cycle is detected, when this preset value is passed again in 
direction to the control line.
Surge protection - Gradient mode
The Gradient mode of surge protection is realized by a separate 
surge protection function block in the same PLC or in external 
hardware. This mode of surge protection monitors the gradients 
of up to four process signals (e.g., discharge pressure, flow, 
motor current or suction pressure). A surge is detected if one 
of the gradients exceeds the gradient limit that was configured 
during commissioning.
Both types of surge protection can be configured to create a 
warning or open an ASV valve before a compressor shutdown is 
initiated (in general, at the 3rd or 4th surge event).Limit Control
An additional function of the anti-surge controller limits the 
pressure ratio thereby ensuring that no undesirable process 
states occur. In addition, a choke limit control system is also 
implemented to be activated where required.
Additional limit controllers, such as motor current, discharge 
pressure or suction pressure limiters can be easily combined 
to the anti-surge control loop.
Temperature Correction
For high deviations from the reference suction condition, 
both the anti-surge controller and the pressure ratio limiter 
can be temperature compensated. This feature is mostly used 
for ad-justable inlet guide vane compressors with 
atmospheric inlet pressure conditions and gear-type 
compressors in general.Anti-surge control features –  
in a nutshell
•  Universal Control Map (Invariant to suction MW, T, Z)
•  Backup Line with Valve Step Function
•  Setpoint Shift Logic
•  Floating Proportional Algorithm
•  Adaptive Control
•  Limit Control
•  Temperature Correction
•  Decoupling
•  Surge Protection
•  Load Sharing Control
Long-term Archive
The One Control system contains a long-term archive for diag-
nostic and maintenance purposes. This archive contains both 
data and process variables relevant to the anti-surge 
controller.
Process Controller
Many chemical processes demand a high degree of accuracy 
with regard to process parameters of compressed gas. This is 
typically a constant suction or discharge pressure or a 
specified flow to the process. These tasks are performed by 
integrated process controllers (refer to fig. 2) that are 
combined with anti-surge controllers and limiters.Operating and Monitoring
In addition to the control software running in a PLC system, 
we provide an innovative HMI (Human Machine Interface) for 
operator control that is mostly based either on Siemens 
SIMATIC PCS7®, Aveva Wonderware® or Rockwell FactoryTalk® 
platforms. All One Control systems incorporate surge control 
as an integral part of the PLC program without the need for 
additional external hardware. Compressor inlet flow, suction 
pressure, and discharge pressure measurements are input 
directly into the system using standard PLC analog inputs. The 
tuning parameters are displayed and adjusted from the HMI 
screen. A live compressor map with the anti-surge control line 
including limiters, operating point, temperature correction 
and back-up line is displayed on the HMI monitor as well as 
system parameter and process variable trends.
Furthermore, it also provides the user with extensive 
functions for operating and monitoring machines and 
systems, as it offers a balance between cost-effectiveness and 
user-friendliness.
Figure 2: Example of HMI with process controller
Figure 3: Example of HMI with anti-surge controller
Thanks to the standardized HMI and the pretested 
interface to the automation system, the benefits  
become apparent as early as the commissioning phase.
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Transformation of Industry
Siemens promenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc. 
Transformation of Industry 
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, 
or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes 
could violate the rights of the owner.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Load Sharing Control *
One Control also features a patented load sharing 
algorithm, which helps equalize surge margins and maximize 
system efficiency by sharing flow among multiple 
compressors that are connected to common suction and 
discharge lines.
Conventional load sharing algorithms are based upon the 
relationship between compressor inlet flow and the
respective flow at the control line. This does not account for 
any recycled flow. To eliminate this problem, One Control’s 
algorithm uses a Coefficient of Export Flow (CEF). This value 
accounts for the effective flow to the process instead of 
considering only the compressor inlet flow. That is the reason 
we are able to provide effective load sharing even if the 
compressors are in recycle operation.
*) There is a separate technical flyer available on this topic