22   •  www.turbomachinerymag.comSiemens Energy is developing three technologies—an advanced rotor hydrogen compressor, a Turbo Heater, 
and a rotating olefins cracker—to drive the energy transition and reduce carbon emissions.
BY KIRK LUPKESSIEMENS ENERGY:  
Turbomachinery-Based 
Technologies for DecarbonizationPRODUCT SPOTLIGHT
s industrial 
decarboniza -
tion drives 
full speed ahead, innova -
tions in rotating equip -
ment are needed at scale 
to accelerate the energy 
transition and close 
technological gaps. 
Siemens Energy 
has developed three 
technologies that are 
in the early stages of 
commercialization: 
an advanced rotor 
hydrogen compressor, 
a Turbo Heater, and 
a rotating olefins 
cracker (ROC).
HYDROGEN COMPRESSOR
Utilizing turbocompressors for 
low-mole-weight gases like hydrogen 
presents several technical challenges. 
A large amount of specific work is required to 
achieve meaningful pressure ratios, as there is 
a comparatively lower pressure rise per stage Arelative to heavier gases, such as 
methane or CO 2.
Siemens Energy’s STC-SVm 
single-shaft turbocompres -
sor with advanced rotor 
technology was designed 
to address these 
limitations. The 
platform utilizes a 
multi-stage rotor that 
permits circumfer -
ential speeds at the 
impeller outer 
diameter of up to 
600 m/s without 
exceeding material 
stress limits as 
specified in API 617. 
This enables significant 
compressor stage count 
reduction and a smaller 
overall footprint by up to 50% 
compared to a conventional 
turbocompressor solution in 
low-mole-weight gas applications.
The STC-SVm platform can operate on 
100% hydrogen and applies to all major 
industrial markets with case ratings up to 
350 bar(g) and discharge temperatures up to 
Advanced rotor hydrogen compressor  
prototype on the closed-loop test stand.
Turbomachinery International  •  November/December 2024  •  23Next year, the first field demonstra-
tion project will take place at a pulp and 
paper mill in Washington, providing 
process heat to a rotary kiln. Siemens 
Energy was awarded a $1.7M matching 
grant from the Washington State Clean 
Energy Fund to support this effort.
ROTATING OLEFINS 
CRACKER
The ROC is a turbomachine that 
utilizes the same fluid dynamic princi-
ples as the Turbo Heater to produce olefins 
without the combustion of fossil fuels. The 
technology is being developed as part of a joint 
effort between Siemens Energy and Technip 
Energies. The two companies have already 
validated the fundamentals of reactor 
chemistry in a laboratory setting and success-
fully tested a turbomachine prototype 
operating with inert gas.
Like the Turbo Heater, the ROC can be 
driven by an electric motor or a hydrogen-fired 
gas turbine. Kinetic energy produced via 
rotation is converted rapidly to heat through a 
controlled shock wave, creating a near-instan -
taneous temperature rise in the gas to initiate pyrolysis reactions without heat transfer from heat exchanger surfaces.
In addition to eliminating fossil-fuel 
combustion, the rapid temperature increase 
optimizes the reaction volume to better 
control chemical kinetics and maximize the yield of the desired high-value chemicals 
compared to the gradual heating and long 
residence times dictated by the bulk volume 
of long tube bundles in conventional furnace 
heating coils. Eliminating the reliance on 
surface heat exchange in tube coils will lower 
the propensity for coke formation. The ROC is 
compact, highly scalable, and can convert 
large quantities of energy to heat in 
a small footprint. 
Turbo Heater wit h
electric drive motor
Kirk Lupkes is the Head of Future 
Technology – Compression at Siemens 
Energy.
193° C. It is suited for applications with 
high-hydrogen flows where installing several 
reciprocating compressor packages is 
uneconomical or impractical due to footprint 
constraints. In applications with high operating 
flexibility, the STC-SVm can also be combined 
with reciprocating units in hybrid compression 
packages to reduce total cost of ownership.
The development and testing of the new 
rotor technology included operation on 
100% helium in a closed loop. Further 
validation testing and additional technology 
development using 100% hydrogen will 
continue in a new Siemens Energy test facility 
located in Redmond, WA. 
TURBO HEATER
Siemens Energy’s Turbo Heater is a turboma -
chine that employs high-speed gas dynamics to 
directly heat gas through a shock wave train. 
The machine is driven by an electric motor and 
does not require the direct burning of fossil 
fuels or a heat exchanger. With the Turbo 
Heater, fluid is accelerated to high velocities 
using several stages, each consisting of 
rotating blades followed by stator vanes 
redirecting the flow into subsequent stages. 
The flow is then directed to a stationary 
diffuser that rapidly reduces the flow velocity 
and converts the fluid’s kinetic energy into 
thermal energy, producing a rapid increase in 
static temperature.
The Turbo Heater also features scalability: 
The flow capacity and therefore the amount of 
energy transferred to the flow is approxi-mately a quadratic function of linear dimen-
sions. This means doubling the machine’s 
diameter results in a flow-capacity increase of 
roughly four times.
Proof-of-Concept Test
A 1.6 MW prototype successfully completed a 
proof-of-concept test campaign covering a 
wide range of operating conditions. The test 
program demonstrated outlet temperatures 
above 700° C, which matched the pre-test 
performance predictions. A four-hour API 
mechanical run test was also completed. 
Achievable temperature levels are projected to 
reach up to 1000° C using materials and design 
practices proven in gas turbines and other 
turbomachinery products.
Rotating olefins cracker prototype