Customer Technical Support for Oil & Gas and Industrial Rotating Equipment Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Customer Technical Services (CTS) Customer Technical Support for Siemens Energy equipment Availability and reliability are among the most crucial parameters for the economical operation of your equipment. The potential to achieve high reliability doesn’t just depend on the performance of the equipment itself; it also relies heavily on efficiently managing any operational issues that may occur. By combining the proactive functions of Remote Diagnostic Services and the reactive functions of our Operational Service Desks, we’re aiming to maximize the availability, reliability, and performance of your rotating equipment and machine trains. And this is only possible when there’s a continuous and secure data exchange – and a close partnership with our customers. By averting trips and preventing forced outages – through the early detection of potential faults and preventive remediation – your equipment’s availability and reliability can be increased. Proactive and reactive technical support Remote Diagnostic Services Operational Service Desk Remote Diagnostic Service helps you optimize your assets’ production, by turning data into value. In a proactive approach, our experts in the Remote Diagnostic Centers (RDCs) monitor connected equipment actively to identify potential problems before they impact your operation. The active monitoring allows us to identify critical changes in the equipment’s health status at an early stage and provide faster solutions, enhancing your machines’ availability and reliability. Benefits of Remote Diagnostic Services Our experts are committed to help you to maintain and safeguard your assets over their entire lifecycle. Through continuous data exchange, we aim for increasing their availability, reliability and performance. Whenever you have an issue with your rotating equipment, our Operstional Sevice Desk professionals provide you with 24/7 technical support. In this reactive approach, our experts can resolve issues even faster by analyzing historical data from connected equipment. Via online technical support, they can provide you with over-the-shoulder support and guide you remotely. If more support is needed, a network of specialists is available to offer emergency spare parts or rapid deployment of field service personnel. 24/7 Siemens Energy Helpdesk for Customer Technical Support One number for the entire world: +49 911 7044 44 70 Local 24/7 Siemens Energy Operational Service Desks Our recommended packages Starter Essential Advanced A customer-triggered support package for non-connected equipment, accessible via the Operation Service Desk (OSD). Operational Service Desk: 24/7 expert support and troubleshooting via phone, email, or our Customer Energy Portal. A customer-initiated support package for connected equipment, reachable through the OSD. myHealth: A mobile/web app for visualizing operational KPIs and equipment data trends. Remote Troubleshooting: Expert recommendations based on asset's historical data, with customer's permission. A proactive package with equipment monitoring and health analysis by Siemens Energy’s Remote Diagnostic Centers. Reports: Regular updates on asset's performance for a comprehensive overview. Notifications: Alerts from Remote Diagnostic engineers when deviations are noticed. Check your equipment's health status Our web and app-based customer interface, myHealth, enables you to check your machine’s health status, and access notifications and reports anywhere, anytime. myHealth provides an overview of your important operational KPIs over different time periods, shows you sensor and event data in an interactive way and gives you an overview of all issued notifications and reports for your assets. myHealth runs on mobiles as well as on handhelds and PCs. myHealth app: All equipment data in your hands Equipment overview: Get an overview of your equipment; includes dedicated Siemens Energy support staff Operational summary: Monitor your availability and reliability. See service hours, starts, alarms, and more for your equipment myHealth web-based interface: Powerful analytic data tool Lens Trend Explorer: Our analytic tool enables you to plot and visualize the operational data of your connected machines (full sensor tag list) in various graphs and trends. Drill down to your sensor data to learn more about your equipment‘s performance. Link to: myHealt web-based interface How to get the myHealth app: Download the app in the Apple Store of Google Play Store. Log in using your existing myHealth account. Or if you don't have an account yet - request one via your Siemens Energy sales representative Request a myHealth account If you don't have a data acquisition connection or myHealth account: Check out or demo in the app! Secure Data Collection With our myConnect data collector, we collect and transfer machine data reliably and securely, meeting high cybersecurity standards including ISO 27001, IEC 62443, and NERC CIP. myConnect Cabinet solution for up to three IPC427E installations within a single DMZ Includes power supply (24V DC) Mounting brackets for up to three IPC427E DIN rail for mounting of two Scalance S615 Additional Ethernet connections to support expansion or additional configurations Requires 220V AC from external source Connection to control system / OPC UA Server Connection to customer internet Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025