Synchronous condenser (SynCon) for grid stability and efficiency Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Synchronous condenser Parallel connected synchronous condensers are mainly used for providing short-circuit power and inertia. They also help to stabilize the network through voltage recovery during faults. This becomes increasingly important with the rising share of renewable power generation that leads to a lack of short-circuit power and inertia. Due to the fact that conventional power plants are shut down, synchronous condenser solutions use a conventional generator to provide the necessary inertia and short-circuit contribution by means of its rotating mass while also providing or absorbing reactive power. Arrange a consultation Proven solution for grid stabilization A synchronous condenser provides short-circuit power, inertia, and reactive power for dynamic loads. Siemens Energy supplies a broad range of generators up to 1,300 MVA at full speed. New ways to balance the grid Synchronous condensers solve challenges Inertia and short-circuit power are key elements of grid stability – yet their availability is shrinking. This is caused by the addition of renewables-based power generation to the energy mix, phase-out of thermal power plants, new HVDC systems , and the extension of power supply systems to remote areas. All of this influences the stability of transmission networks, resulting in a worldwide renaissance of the synchronous condenser. The Siemens Energy synchronous condenser solution comprises a horizontal synchronous generator connected to the high-voltage transmission network via a step-up transformer. It is started up and stopped with a frequency-controlled electric motor (pony motor) or a starting frequency converter. When the generator has reached operating synchronous speed, it will be synchronized with the transmission network, and the machine is operated as a motor providing reactive and short-circuit power to the transmission network. Have a closer look at the synchronous condenser: 3D Experience Contribution of short-circuit power After the generator is synchronized with the network it behaves like a synchronous motor with no load, providing short-circuit power to the transmission network. Voltage support The generator is connected to the transmission network through a transformer. Either a pony motor or a static frequency converter starts it and provides reactive power when it’s synchronous to the system frequency. Short-term overload capability During emergencies or contingencies the synchronous condenser can provide a significantly higher rating for a short time, depending on its specifications. Inertia to the transmission system The generator provides the necessary inertia by means of its rotating mass while also providing or absorbing reactive power. Synchronous condenser working principles Our synchronous condenser solutions utilize a generator to provide the necessary inertia with its rotating mass while also offering or absorbing reactive power. The generator is connected to the transmission network via a transformer and is started by either an electric motor or a static frequency converter. Once operating speed is achieved, the generator synchronizes with the network, functioning like a synchronous motor with no load, thereby supplying reactive power and short-circuit power to the transmission network. See the synchronous condenser diagram below, which illustrates the key components and operational principles of our solutions. It highlights how the generator, connected to the transmission network, provides essential inertia and reactive power. The diagram also emphasizes the role of the electric motor or static frequency converter in starting the system and the synchronization process with the network. This visual representation enhances the understanding of how synchronous condensers improve grid stability and facilitate the integration of renewable energy sources. Maximum inertia with additional masses provided by flywheel solution To provide maximum inertia, Siemens Energy has extended the established synchronous condensers solution with additional rotating mass from a flywheel. This extension is a very effective method to maintain the required level of inertia and thus the RoCoF (Rate of change of frequency) of the system. Rotating mass provides an inherent synchronous inertia response (SIR), what is counteracting grid frequency fluctuations with active power injection or absorption during sudden load unbalance events. Siemens Energy’s flywheels are operated in partial vacuum to minimize air friction losses and reduce the cooling efforts to maintain required temperature level in all operational and emergency modes. The design enables a safe emergency run-down in case of total power loss (grid black-out). The flywheel is designed for plug & play installation delivered to the site with rotor installed, lowest possible footprint and low supervision and maintenance effort. Our solutions for grid stabilization in practice One of our current projects - Rassau: turnkey solution synchronous condenser with Flywheel Short circuit power guarantees a reliable system operation and system strength 1100 MWs kinetic energy with the operating range of ±60 Mvar at 132 kV Inertia reduces oscillation on grid frequency and prevents system blackouts Rotating grid stabilizer conversion Synchronous condensers help to drive the decarbonization journey for power assets. With the rising adoption of renewable energy , traditional power generation methods are utilized less, and generators are being shut down. A Brownfield rotating grid stabilizer conversion not only enables a rising share of renewable infeed on the grid but also provides a significantly reduced carbon footprint compared to a new build. Brownfield grid stabilizer Synchronous condensers manufacturer As a leading manufacturer of synchronous condensers, we are committed to delivering innovative solutions that enhance grid stability and efficiency. Our expertise in advanced engineering and technology allows us to design and produce high-quality synchronous condensers tailored to meet the specific needs of power systems worldwide. With a focus on reliability and performance, we support the transition to renewable energy by providing essential reactive power and inertia, ensuring a robust and resilient electrical grid for the future. Service for power transmission Additional information Synchronous condenser flyer PDF (2 MB) Download Grid stabilization brochure PDF (23 MB) Download FAQs Why is grid stability important? Since power is produced on demand, it's critical to ensure that the power system frequency and voltage remain within rated ranges . Maintaining this balance is necessary to keep the power grid stable and efficient . In the worst case, to avoid blackouts . What is a synchronous condenser? A synchronous condenser (SynCon) is a synchronous motor or generator connected to the grid. Operated as a motor, a SynCon can absorb or provide reactive power , provide short-circuit power and contribute inertia with its stored kinetic energy . What is the difference between reactive power, short-circuit power and inertia? Capacitive or inductive reactive power is used to control the voltage in high voltage grids. Short-circuit power contribution is the ability of an electrical machine to inject high levels of current during a grid short-circuit event , to ride through the fault and maintain a stable grid . The short-circuit power is also the enabler for stable protection function in electrical grids. Grid inertia is the ability of a power grid to damp frequency oscillations without destabilizing the system . It is the key factor for maintaining grid frequency stability . To maintain a clean sinus function of the frequency, high inertia is more robust against frequency changes. What does a synchronous condenser do? A synchronous condenser provides inherent short-circuit power and inertia as well as reactive power controlled by the control system. Why do we need synchronous condensers? Synchronous condensers are the enabler of the energy transition , as they enable a higher penetration of renewables in the power generation mix. As renewable, non-synchronous power generation increases, conventional power plants are shut down . The inertia, short-circuit power and reactive power they used to provide will now be provided by the synchronous condenser, but in a more efficient way . Where are synchronous condensers installed? Synchronous condensers are installed in worldwide high voltage networks , with high renewable penetration . For reactive power and short-circuit reasons , the choice or the perfect node in the network is crucial, whereas for inertia contribution installations, the location is more flexible. What are the advantages of installing a synchronous condenser in an electrical system? Synchronous condensers can provide reactive power, short-circuit power and inertia more efficiently and economically than power plants when kept online for the sole purpose of grid stabilization . What is the reason for adding a flywheel? If the inertia provided by the synchronous generator is not sufficient a fixed coupled flywheel can be added to increase the inertia contribution . With the addition of a flywheel, a synchronous condenser has an inertia constant similar to that of a large steam turbine . How big can a flywheel be and what is the limiting factor? Material strength limits the maximum size of flywheels. The largest flywheel can be up to a kinetic energy of approx. 3500 MWs in 50Hz and 2000MWs in 60 Hz . What are the challenges when operating the flywheel? Rotor dynamics of the rotating parts and flying forces are some of the challenges of modern flywheel technology. Using decades of experience in gas and steam turbine design by Siemens Energy a safe design and manufacturing process for flywheels is ensured. Rotodynamic calculations are used for safe operation, vacuum and water cooled housings are used to reduce friction losses . Siemens Energy stories November 30, 2022 12 min read Ireland's great grid stabilizer November 22, 2021 8 min read This way for the right momentum to grid stability 5 min read Synchronous condensers: Key to grid stability in North America 3 min read Townsville, Australia: Hybrid RGS conversion to alternate between power production and grid stability mode 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services See all stories Press releases October 17, 2023 Berlin Two become one: Siemens Energy combines two technologies to stabilize the Irish grid August 30, 2022 Munich Siemens Energy technology stabilizes German power grid May 4, 2021 Munich Siemens Energy’s grid stabilizer technology to help Irish grid exceed renewables penetration limit December 16, 2020 Erlangen Siemens Energy wins contract for first grid stabilization project in Baltic states See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025