Health and safety Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications December 9, 2024 3 min read We prioritize people to achieve Zero Harm by  Alexandre Costa Safety Sustainability His job saves lives. Alexandre Costa has spent decades working as a
safety technician, among dangerous chemicals, flammable gases, and
cranes lifting massive machines. The key to accident prevention?
Alexandre tells us why the company always focuses on people first. “ Protocols around safety culture are important, but the crucial thing is focusing on people first. Alexandre Costa Work Safety Technician, Siemens Energy Brazil I’ve just started the late afternoon-to-night shift, which means I wake up around 4 p.m. every day and go to bed around 8 a.m. – with a “lunch” break at 1 a.m. We’re dealing with heavy machinery and hazardous, fire-prone gases like acetylene and oxygen, so carefully planning ahead is absolutely essential. For over two decades, I’ve been working as a work safety technician, and in all these years I’ve taken part in building and assemblage projects for a whole range of industries – chemical plants, refineries, thermal power stations. In all those industries the policies and protocols around safety culture are important, of course, but the really crucial thing is focusing on people first. If you lose sight of what is needed to protect them, accidents are more likely to happen. Watch the video: My current project involves servicing a thermal plant here in Cañuelas, Argentina, where our 45-day deadline includes disassembling major equipment, doing maintenance work, replacing parts as needed – and then reassembling everything again. My job is accident prevention and risk analysis, collaborating with the whole team in three different places: at the heart of the power plant where the main turbine is located and in two support and storage areas that are a little under two kilometers apart from each other. For me, one of the most important tasks of the day is our daily safety dialogue (DSD), when we discuss specific situations and the risks associated with them, always in partnership with supervisors and field engineers . In our line of work, small oversights can lead to huge risks and even severe accidents. So we need to take every task and the correct use of every safety item into account. Daily Safety Dialogues bring the team together to discuss risks and uncertainties at work. Concentrating on people instead of deadlines and productivity schedules is key to accident prevention, says Costa. Since I’m Brazilian, from Rio de Janeiro, in Argentina I also have to consider linguistic and cultural differences during our DSDs and focus on solid, clear communication. Based on my experience, accidents occur at work two to three hours after a task has started, the time when people become habituated to an activity. The DSDs happen just before that critical window of time, making sure everyone pays more attention to their own and others’ safety. But the most challenging part of prevention work is dealing with people’s priorities. Everyone has deadlines and productivity schedules, and at times this makes people forget to take care of the most precious assets: themselves and those around them. With the DSDs, we can help them take a step back and not forget that. Sustainability at Siemens Energy We have made significant progress on our journey toward a sustainable future: Explore our achievements and ongoing efforts. Learn more Combined picture and video credits: Claus Lehmann Read more December 11, 2024 8 min read Strategic partnerships for sustainable energy December 9, 2024 3 min read Direct current circuit breakers make power grids more robust December 4, 2023 3 min read Our people fuel sustainability December 4, 2023 3 min read Our partnerships innovate the energy transition See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025