Sensproducts: Born digital Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Grid digitalization Sensproducts™ - Born digital Digital solutions, more efficient energy transition, building the grid of the future The role of digitalization in energy transmission and distribution is becoming increasingly significant due to the growing complexity of grid structures and the rising importance of environmental compatibility. Ensuring a reliable power supply for consumers while keeping transmission and distribution costs low is essential. All our Sensproducts™ have connectivity features inbuilt by default. With this step, the high-quality substation products of Siemens Energy are now boosted to a new, digitalized level. Step by step towards grid digitalization Contact us Check out our new Sensformer™ Lite Discover more Our solutions for effectively connecting to the grid Discover more Grid automation Discover more Grid consulting Discover more Our Sensproducts™ are advanced asset performance management systems for high voltage equipment, designed to boost the reliability , flexibility , and performance of high-value assets via software applications that transform equipment data into actionable insights. By harnessing the know-how of our experts and leveraging state-of-the-art technologies, our solutions empower customers to make informed decisions, optimizing asset performance, improving throughput, reducing operational costs and extending asset lifecycle. Take a look at our software in action and discover the smart features that provide a comprehensive overview of your connected fleet, empowering you to master your digital journey. Let´s energize society! All assets in one digital platform Sensproducts™ offer an all-in-one solution for all your asset performance management needs. Our new and improved platform merges the known Sensformer™ and Sensgear™ functionalities to finally manage the whole fleet in one place, including all energy assets: Power transformer Distribution transformer Circuit breaker Gas-insulated switchgear Surge arrester Offers for your power transfomer Offers for your switchgear We offer the following software packages for your transformer Sensformer™ monitoring Stay ahead: Plan for the unexpected with confidence. Maximize asset transparency and availability via live data monitoring, alarms and notifications. Prevent unplanned downtime and conduct preventive maintenance activities based on live data from your transformer. Sensformer™ reliability Protect your investment with the power of extended diagnostics. Benefit from extended diagnostic capabilities that empower you to have better control on health conditions and the operational reliability of your transformer, resulting in minimizing the likelihood of failures. Sensformer™ dynamic operation Boost your profitability with dynamic equipment management. Efficiently address the ever-changing demands of the grid with dynamic rating, supported by our cutting-edge thermal models. Experience seamless operations while utilizing your transformers to their fullest potential, ensuring optimized performance and utmost efficiency. Sensformer™ asset performance Unleash unparalleled performance insights: the all-in-one solution. Embrace a holistic approach to your operations with our complete package. Availability, reliability, efficiency, and sustainability.  Experience a well-rounded solution that caters to every aspect of operational excellence. One monitoring system, with upgradable software packages to fit specific business needs Sensformer™ Sensformer™ reliability Sensformer™ dynamic operation Sensformer™ asset performance Monitoring X X X X DGA diagnostics X X Bushing diagnostics X X Simulation X X SelfCare X Our new Sensformer™ Lite Our new solution has been specifically designed to provide a cost-effective digital upgrade for large fleets and to extend the lifetime of aging transformers. Learn more on the advantages that are designed to gain transparency on a fleet level. For more info download our brochure Monitoring Tracking vital metrics: Includes top oil temperature, bottom oil temperature, winding current, oil level and ambient Temperature Monitoring dashboard for critical KPIs, and relevant signals ensuring asset health and reliability Virtual sensors Virtual sensors as back-up for real sensors to increase reliability Values and components selectable Accurate temperature hot spot Detailed operational status information Relative aging Aging prediction of the transformer based on actual operation Loss of life derived from past operations Dashboard states real time aging of day, month or of total lifetime Support capex timing or changes in flee More accurate re-selling price System requirements Included: Top oil temperature Bottom oil temperature Oil level Load (Low voltage current) Load (High voltage current) Ambient temperature Available in plus package: H2 Guard Lite Moisture Notification management & fleet view Fleet-wide visualization on map- or table-view Backlog for notifications and warnings Automated and configurable monitoring rules Simulation Load simulations with real conditions Scenario parameters adjustable Manage temporary overloads Sensgear ™  - Our digital monitoring solution for your switchgear Monitoring Sensgear™ monitoring module gives you the transparency necessary to prevent unplanned downtime and conduct condition-based maintenance activities based on live condition from your switchgear. Maximize asset transparency and availability via live data monitoring, alarms and notifications. Gas inventory and trending Sensgear™ gas inventory and trending supports to comply to legislation, eliminate travel to the site and manual work, as well as to avoid critical gas emission and penalties. Do you need help on a concrete project? Do you need a quote for any of our products or solutions? Do you need support for your installed equipment? Do you have a technical question? Do you need something totally different? You can contact us 24/7. We are looking forward to your call or online request. Contact our experts Services Discover our services for a reliable and stable grid Services for grid technologies Services for high-voltage switchgears and breakers Services for transformers Services for high-voltage direct current (HVDC) Services for flexible AC transmission systems (FACTS) Cyber Security for HVDC / FACTS Services for offshore grid connections SIEAERO Grid digitalization insights October 19, 2021 8 min read On the front line of SF6-free switchgear technology March 29, 2020 3 min read Worlds first Sensgear® circuit-breaker November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey July 18, 2024 8 min read Mastering grid upgrades: the impact of decarbonizing supply chains March 26, 2024 6 min read Gas turbine plant as guarantor for grid stability See all stories Upcoming events March 25, 2025 - March 26, 2025 Berlin, Huttenstr. 12, 10553 Berlin, Building A71, Innovation Center Berlin Siemens Energy EU Innovation Conference 2025 March 24, 2025 - March 27, 2025 Dallas, Texas, USA DISTRIBUTECH 2025 See all events Press releases December 17, 2020 Erlangen Siemens Energy’s digital transmission technology enables push for wind energy in Vietnam October 22, 2020 Vietnam Successful commissioning of Power Substation for Solar Power Plant in Vietnam See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025