Siemens Energy at Distributech 2025 Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications March 24, 2025 - March 27, 2025 Dallas, Texas, USA DISTRIBUTECH 2025 Power plants Transformers Grid automation Join us at DISTRIBUTECH 2025 to explore our innovations in transmission and distribution focused on digitalizing the grid and mitigating effects of extreme weather events. Visit us in Booth #2531! Our team of industry professionals will be available to share insights, discuss innovations, and explore opportunities for collaboration. Discover the Power of AI in Grid Optimization Join us on Tuesday, March 25 at 2:45pm - 3:15pm on the Digitalizing the Grid Knowledge Hub stage (booth #5558) for an engaging presentation by Pavel Dimitrov (Nvidia), Olga Grbovic (Siemens Energy), and Matthias Heinecke (Siemens Energy) on how Grid Enhancing Technologies (GETs) harness AI to optimize existing grid infrastructure. Discover the transformative benefits of GETs, including real-time hot spot predictions for critical equipment like power transformers and high-voltage switchgears. Add to calendar Get energized at our sessions Join us each day to learn from our experts on digitalizing the grid and improving your infrastructure. Tuesday, March 25 Wednesday, March 26 Thursday, March 27 Time: March 25, 11:00-11:30am Location: Booth #2531 Speakers: Peter Vogel, Global VP & Head, Grid Consulting, Siemens Energy Ifte Huq, Global Head, Grid Consulting Market Applications, Siemens Energy Topic: From concept to reality: Navigating the complexities of electric energy projects Join us for an in-depth session on electric energy projects, covering market analysis to performance envelopes. Gain insights into de-risking investments, cyber-physical security, regulatory frameworks, and supply chain resilience. Learn about renewable generation, new grid-connected energies, hybrid technology projects, and grid-islanded solutions. Enhance your project development strategies and drive successful implementations. Time: March 25, 11:30-11:45am​ Location: Booth #2531 Speakers: Peter Vogel, Global VP & Head, Grid Consulting, Siemens Energy Ifte Huq, Global Head, Grid Consulting Market Applications, Siemens Energy Topic: Spark session - Beyond the obvious: Uncovering the hidden success factors in electric energy projects Uncover the hidden success factors in electric energy projects. Enhance your strategies by addressing technical, financial, regulatory, and environmental aspects to boost grid reliability and efficiency. Ensure your projects are delivered on time, within budget, and at desired performance levels. Time: March 25, 2:00-2:30pm Location: Booth #2531 Speakers: Susan Farrell, Global VP & Head, Grid Cybersecurity, Siemens Energy Pascal Seguin, Engineer, Grid Cybersecurity, Siemens Energy Topic: The top ten cybersecurity considerations for grid modernization initiatives for safety, resiliency, and availability By addressing the top 10 cybersecurity considerations for grid modernization, we can enhance safety, resiliency, and availability. Learn how we can support you in securing and modernizing your grid infrastructure. Time: March 25, 2:45 - 3:15pm Location: Digitalizing the Grid Knowledge Hub, booth #5558 Speakers: Pavel Dimitrov, Solutions Architect Manager, Energy, Nvidia Olga Grbovic, Global VP & Head, Digital Grid Innovation & Business Development, Siemens Energy Matthias Heinecke, Global Head, Digital Grid Innovation Management, Siemens Energy Topic: AI-Enabled Grid Enhancing Technologies for T&D System Operators Explore how Grid Enhancing Technologies (GETs) leverage the power of AI to optimize the use of existing grid infrastructure. This session will introduce the concept and benefits of GETs, showcasing how AI can accelerate complex thermal simulations to enable real-time hot spot predictions for critical equipment like power transformers and high-voltage switchgears. Gain valuable insights into the development and initial validation of these AI-based digital twins, including field testing with the largest German DSO as a proof point. Don't miss the opportunity to see an interactive demo that brings these technologies to life. Time: March 25, 3:00-3:30pm Location: Booth #2531 Speakers: Sujith Bhatia, Global VP & Head, Grid Automation, Siemens Energy Jennifer Ontano, Global Head, Grid Automation Market Application, Siemens Energy Topic: Easy and fast adaptability to support the energy transition via digital substation The energy transition is happening, and digital substations are key enablers. They enhance monitoring, control, and automation, leading to improved efficiency and integration of renewable energy. We are ready to support you in making digital substations a reality. Time: March 26, 10:00-10:30am Location: Booth #2531 Speakers: Bruno Stuck, Global VP & Head, Grid Enhancing Technologies, Siemens Energy Haris Balta, Head of Operations, Digital Grid, Siemens Energy Topic: Resilient and available grid with overhead line digital solutions Ensure grid resilience and availability with our overhead line digital solutions. Our advanced technologies support you with assessment, monitoring, and prevention, enabling swift action to maintain a robust and reliable power grid. Time: March 26, 11:00-11:30am Location: Booth #2531 Speakers: Adnan Chaudhry, Global Senior Vice President, Digital Grid, Siemens Energy Luis Frischmuth, Global Head, Grid Technologies Strategy Execution, Siemens Energy Topic: How do we make the grid of tomorrow resilient, secure and digital? Let’s talk grid of the future; a resilient, secure, and digital grid. How do we address key challenges faced by our customers, such as aging infrastructure, extreme weather events, and the need for increased renewable energy integration? We leverage advanced digital solutions and cutting-edge technologies like AI, advanced simulation and more, to empower our customers to operate their grids with unparalleled autonomy and efficiency. Time: March 26, 11:30am-12:15pm Location: Booth #2531 Speakers: Olga Grbovic, Global VP & Head, Digital Grid Innovation & Business Development, Siemens Energy Susan Farrell, Global VP & Head, Grid Cybersecurity, Siemens Energy Patrick Miller, CEO, Ampyx Cyber Kevin Kumpf, Chief OT/ICS Strategist, Cyolo Emma Stewart, Director, Center for Securing Digital Energy Technology, Idaho National Laboratory Topic: Women in technology: Sharing journeys and mentorship in the electric sector This panel brings together distinguished leaders who have made significant contributions to advancing women in technical and energy careers. Join us as we explore their journeys, insights, and the importance of mentorship in fostering the next generation of women leaders in technology. Time: March 26, 2:00-2:30pm Location: Booth #2531 Speakers: Matthias Heinecke, Global Head, Digital Grid Innovation Management, Siemens Energy Pavel Dimitrov, Solutions Architect Manager, Energy, Nvidia Topic: Demo of AI-enabled grid enhancing technologies for T&D system operators Live demo showcasing how advanced analytics and AI-driven asset simulations can address grid congestion, optimize grid performance in real-time, and enhance the accuracy and reliability of grid management through smart virtual sensors and digital twin technology. Time: March 27, 10:00-10:15am Location: Booth #2531 Speaker: Jennifer Ontano, Global Head, Grid Automation Market Application, Siemens Energy Topic: Spark session: Grid automation: end to end multi-vendor system integration Focus session on how Grid automation integrate systems with multiple interphases including the interoperability function of multiple vendors to optimize and guarantee the efficiency. This collaboration enables a proper co-ordination of assets, improve service delivery and reduced operational costs. Time: March 27, 11:00-11:15am​ Location: Booth #2531 Speaker: Bruno Stuck, Global VP & Head, Grid Enhancing Technologies Topic: Spark session - Grid enhancing technologies Focus session on the Grid Enhancing Technologies portfolio, showcasing how we leverage our digital products and solutions to ensure resiliency, including asset and line monitoring, substation integration, and performance management with OEM-developed digital twins. Time: March 27, 12:00-12:15pm Location: Booth #2531 Speaker: Susan Farrell, Global VP & Head, Grid Cybersecurity Topic: Spark session - Grid cybersecurity Focus session on our Grid Cybersecurity portfolio, to learn more about our OT/ICS grid cybersecurity solutions to integrate safety, resiliency, and availability into your operations, for a secure grid infrastructure. Schedule a tour through our booth #2531 Don't miss the chance to connect with our leading experts and learn how Siemens Energy can make your power grid ready for the future.  Click the button below to schedule a booth tour via email now. Schedule a booth tour We look forward to seeing you at DISTRIBUTECH 2025! We are excited to engage in inspiring conversations and connect with you. Join us to shape the future of the energy industry together! Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025