Circuit breakers Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Bringing Zero closer: high-voltage circuit breakers Our Blue circuit breakers with Zero F-gases and Zero harm make greener grids up to 145 kV achievable. Also for higher voltages up to 1100 kV we offer reliable live tank and dead tank circuit breakers as well as hybrid solutions combining different functions in a compact design, such as our Dead Tank Compact (DTC) and our Disconnecting Circuit Breaker (DCB). Live tank circuit breakers Dead tank circuit breakers Dead Tank Compact (DTC) Disconnecting Circuit Breaker (DCB) Circuit breaker accessories Ready for your Day Zero? With our Blue portfolio of innovative switchgear technology, you can reduce your global warming impact to zero. That means zero F-gases, zero greenhouse gas emissions and zero harm to the environment. Discover your Day Zero here Our circuit breaker technology The technology of our products sets international trends. We continuously ensure our high quality through optimized production processes, constant product development and a certified quality management system. Vacuum interruption principle Vacuum interrupters form the backbone of our 3AV1 Blue portfolio. Based on more than 40 years of experience in medium-voltage range and more than 6 million delivered vacuum interrupters, Siemens Energy has introduced this proven technology to high-voltage power networks in 2010. This game-changing technology offers several advantages: Zero CO2 or F-gas emissions Hermetical tightness to protect from decomposition products High switching performance without degradation Zero maintenance (sealed for life) Perfect for low temperatures, no liquefaction of switching mediumLow risk of breakage due to flexible sheds Self-compression principle Our complete 3AP family up to 1100 kV relies on our arc-quenching principles, either the self-compression or the dynamic self-compression principle using the thermal energy of the arc. Siemens patented this method of arc quenching in 1973 and has continued to develop the technology of the self-compression interrupter unit ever since. Stored-energy spring drive mechanism The drive concept of the 3AP circuit breaker family is based on the patented stored-energy spring principle. The mechanism types differ in terms of the number, size and arrangement of the opening and closing springs. Both the opening and closing springs are located inside the operating mechanism, thereby achieving a simple and sturdy device. Advantages Same principle for rated voltages from 72.5 kV up to 800 kV High reliability thanks to low operating energy (10,000 operating cycles guaranteed) Reliable, economical and durable due to uncomplicated and robust construction with few moving parts Controllable switching state at all times Easy access to springs as they are not integrated in SF6 compartments Maintenance-free for 25 years or 6,000 operation cycles Modular design All Siemens Energy high-voltage circuit breakers are designed in a well proven modular platform concept. This leads to a wide variety of breaker types and strong flexibility with regard to various applications according to our customers’ requirements as well as high availability at eminently competitive price. The main components, such as the operating mechanism, control system, base frame, kinematic chain and insulator designs are identical and based on decades of manufacturing and operating experience – and are also used in our GIS switchgear range. Advantages Blue live tank and dead tank circuit breakers up to 145 kV with Zero F-gases and Zero GWP Over 100 years of operating experience up to 1100 kV, also with special applications, e.g. extreme temperatures, earthquakes Strong platform concept for main components ensures competitive prices and low maintenance and training costs Everything from a single source: installation, maintenance, training, technical advice, 24-hour customer support & service Spare parts and maintenance accessories for all circuit breakers available for at least 25 years after delivery Extremely low gas leakage rate of less than 0.1% per year (IEC requires a maximum of 0.5% p.a.) All breakers have a 12 year inspection / 25 year maintenance cycle, minimizing your total cost of ownership! Our services for you You can find informational materials on our circuit breakers and details about our services here. Downloads Support Services Brochure High-Voltage Circuit Breakers PDF (17 MB) Download Flyer: Sensgear PDF (567 KB) Download Flyer: TechFacts #101 PDF (504 KB) Download We can gladly help you with installation, commissioning, diagnostics and malfunctions Service for switching products & systems Customer support center Register for upcoming events & webinars Siemens Energy fairs, events & webinars Siemens Energy Downloads Whitepapers & Recordings Further readings Challenging the energy industry on SF6 Dealing with emissions of greenhouse gases from the energy grids worldwide will require more than just adding carbon-free generation from wind, solar, hydropower, and other sources. We have to eliminate man-made climate change gases like SF6, says Tom Rak, a consultant on greenhouse gas issues. By Frank Jossi Read more Circuit breakers Insights October 26, 2021 7 min read Challenging the energy industry on SF6 November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025