Siemens Energy Collaborates with ServiceNow to Enable Precision Defense Against Cyber Threats Targeting the Energy Industry Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy Collaborates with ServiceNow to Enable Precision Defense Against Cyber Threats Targeting the Energy Industry Press release May 11, 2021 Orlando Siemens Energy’s monitoring and detection industrial IOT security platform and ServiceNow’s cross-enterprise digital workflows can help energy companies mitigate cyberattacks at machine-speed Collaboration creates bridge between cybersecurity experts analyzing anomalies and malicious behavior and plant operators capable of acting on credible threat intelligence across industrial operating environments Combined software solution to help secure the energy transition to enable industry-wide adoption of digital, distributed and low-emissions technologies Siemens Energy today announced a collaboration with ServiceNow to create a unified software service offering enabling energy companies to monitor, detect and respond to cyber threats targeting digitally connected critical infrastructure. The new solution brings together Siemens Energy’s artificial intelligence (AI)-based software from its Managed Detection and Response (MDR), powered by Eos.ii TM, service to provide visibility and context across industrial operating environments with ServiceNow’s Operational Technology Management (OT Management) systems to connect cyber threats and digital workflows that allow analysts to quickly assess, prioritize and act against events in the field. The unified software solution creates a detection engine and workflows that streamline operations for cybersecurity analysts to monitor anomalous or malicious behavior in Security Operations Centers (SOC), and energy plant operators to act on credible threat intelligence at machine speed. “Most energy companies struggle with the complex technological and economic challenges involved in monitoring, detecting and preventing cyberattacks on critical infrastructure. Our MDR, powered by Eos.ii, solution, is the first AI-based platform built to provide visibility and context across the energy industry’s digital operating environment in time to stop attacks,” said Leo Simonovich, head of Industrial Cybersecurity at Siemens Energy. “Leveraging Eos.ii’s monitoring and detection software with ServiceNow’s digital workflows will help turn cyber threat intelligence into action so plant operators can respond to incidents with precision defense at machine speed.” "The ability to quickly turn data into action is critical to being able to proactively, reactively and remotely mitigate cyberattacks targeting critical infrastructure. Yet, this is one of the biggest challenges for industrial innovation,” said Marshall Tyler, vice president of Industry Solutions at ServiceNow. “Siemens Energy is a leader in this space and together we are arming the energy industry with the insights and workflows they need to deliver critical services and protect their customers and stakeholders." While the energy transition has introduced new levels of cyber risk — exposing flaws in existing vulnerability management and security response strategies — most companies continue to invest in business models and technologies that rely on the seamless integration of physical and digital assets. Leveraging Siemens Energy’s Eos.ii software, energy companies can turn cyber threat intelligence targeting operational technology (OT) and information technology (IT) networks — connected to physical energy assets — into an actionable response through the ServiceNow OT Management product. This enables plant operators to act with Precision Defense, a response method to deploy appropriate, targeted and proportionate measures to correct and recover from cyber incidents. Responding to cyber threats with Precision Defense allows energy plant operators to improve efficiency and reduce operating costs while responding to incidents with little to no downtime for critical systems. Siemens Energy’s MDR system provides a unified picture of anomalous behavior for defenders with actionable insights to stop attacks. The service goes beyond conventional monitoring by achieving a deeper understanding of how digital systems relate to the real world. With its unified OT and IT data stream, MDR’s Eos.ii technology platform uses AI and digital twin technology to compare billions of real-time data points against a correctly functioning asset. This provides context for Siemens Energy’s analysts to determine not only which events are abnormal, but which are consequential. The technical achievement of unified data streams and machine learning make an unprecedented platform for targeted, in-depth analysis. Utilizing AI detection devices and software focused on mitigating cyberattacks both efficiently and effectively can revolutionize the energy industry. Contact Siemens Energy mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (101 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Read more July 21, 2022 Washington, DC Siemens Energy Takes Next Step to Protect Critical Infrastructure May 30, 2022 Munich From a bird’s-eye view: multi-sensor system and artificial intelligence ensure secure power supply March 1, 2022 Munich Siemens Energy invests in new digital platform for on-demand additive manufacturing services June 23, 2021 Munich Siemens Energy to electrify first-of-its-kind biorefinery in Germany See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025