BWI in Utrecht Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read Eneco, Netherlands: Resilience and high flexibility with Omnivise T3000 control system Reference Biomass Automation Modernization and upgrades Control systems Instrumentation and control Siemens Energy provides single control room with uniform HMI for BWI and two gas-fired district heating plants in the Netherlands. Contact us “ The proven control system T3000 from Siemens Energy helps us to keep our plants up and running in an effective way. Eneco Warmteproductie Utrecht B.V. The customer challenge: Control and monitor energy production The BioWarmte Installatie Lage Weide (BWI) is the first plant for district heating realized  in Utrecht, Netherlands that uses a sustainable source. The BWI processes Dutch residual streams of wood (biomass) and converts them into sustainable district heat. Annually, the BWI processes up to 180,000 tons  of biomass. The T3000 system is used to control and monitor the complete process of  converting biomass into energy. The solution: Single control room with uniform HMI The BWI is equipped with the proven automation system Omnivise T3000. The control system of the BWI is integrated in a multi-unit configuration with the T3000 systems of the two gas-fired district heating plants in Utrecht. This way a single control room with uniform HMI has been realized for all three plants. Find out more about the products and services applied: Omnivise T3000 Control system Contact us The benefits: Secure controls for three plants Effective support for the operators Efficient workflows in daily operations Built-in security for the control system to withstand external cyber attacks About Eneco Eneco is a strong, integrated, independent and growing energy company, active in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and the United Kingdom. Contact us With more than 4,000 successful control system projects worldwide we're a true partner in your success. Don’t hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. With our experts we’re ready for your next project! Contact us Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read SWE Energie, Germany: Up-to-the-minute power generation with Omnivise T3000 control system 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025