Siemens  Energy  Expeditor Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy Expeditor (SEE) powered by SCCoTy 2.0 Siemens Energy is executing on its Vision. A major focus of this Vision is the strategy of digitalization across all parts of our business. Digitalization is fundamentally transforming the value chain and offers major opportunities for all parties. It helps us automate order processing, achieve speed, end-to-end visibility, remove manual errors and improve quality and efficiency. Digitalization is not just a project, for us it has become a part of our strategy. The Automate Purchase to Pay Program consists of several digitalization initiatives aiming to bring automation of work processes, more transparency, work efficiency and removal of many manual task. What is SEE powered by SCCoTy 2.0? The Siemens Energy Expeditor powered by SCCoTy 2.0 solution is designed to automate all major expediting activities of operational procurement regarding open purchase orders. The SEE powered by SCCoTy 2.0 aims to support buyers and suppliers in decreasing the risk of overdue deliveries, while increasing customer satisfaction. What are the benefits of SEE powered by SCCoTy 2.0? Helping ​to manage Siemens Energy orders in ​a timely manner​ Creating visibility on Siemens Energy Purchase Orders Sending alerts, if orders ​need additional attention​ Updating Siemens Energy orders with Supplier feedback​ Is easy to use, no implementation effort on supplier side Informative Videos Introduction OnePager Read more How to get started OnePager Read more Alert Definition Overview OnePager Read more Frequently Asked Questions Get your questions answered I do have difficulties with replying the xls sheet whom should I contact? Please contact: see.se@siemens-energy.com I do have questions regarding the content on the Purchase Orders given (e.g. Delivery date, quantities,…). Please contact your Siemens Energy Procurement contact for the relevant Purchase Orders. I would like to change the email adress that is receiving the alert emails/ add a colleague's email address. Please contact your Siemens Energy Operational Procurement contact at the relevant site and ask to change/ add the email adress. I do have a Web4Biz/ SupplyOn account. Where should I provide my feedback. Please provide your feedback always via the Web4Biz/ SupplyOn account. Purchase Order confirmation: can I provide the information for one line item stepwise, e.g. just the confirmation number, but not the date? No. Please make sure you provide complete input per line item and submit your answer. There are several Open Purchase Orders that require my feedback. Can I provide answers stepwise? Yes. Please fill only the line items that you can provide feedback and submit those answers. Any later change to a submitted answer on such line item could lead to a delay in process handling. In addition, please consider answer to FAQ above. Delivery date reminder: I received the delivery reminder but I need to change the delivery date. How can I provide this feedback? Please contact your Siemens Energy Procurement contact for the relevant Purchase Order. I receive alerts for some of the Siemens Energy locations but not for all locations I have business with. Please be informed that implementation of the SEE is done stepwise and some configurations are individually set. If you whis to receive alerts for additional locations, please contact the respective Siemens Energy operational procurement contact or see.se@siemens-energy.com . What is requested from me regarding the SEE powered by SCCoTy 2.0 implementation. There is no implementation effort on supplier side. Once the implementation has been set up on Siemens Energy side you will receive emails as soon as Purchase orders underly an active alert. All you need to do is to follow the instructions in the alert email. I sent a reply but not a  "reply all", what do I need to do? Please re-send your reply by using the outlook function "reply all" in order to ensure that your response can be processed. I do not find my question/ an answer to my question in this Q&A section Please contact: see.se@siemens-energy.com Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025