EHS / Management Systems Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications EHS / Management systems Environmental Protection as well as Occupational Health and Safety are integral components of our corporate culture. As such, we expect our suppliers to make every effort to protect the environment as well as taking responsibility for the health and wellbeing of their employees. Within a company, these principles should be implemented within the framework of a strategic approach. Such approaches can vary among size and significance of a company. Accordingly, we have categorized these requirements. Download Code of Conduct PDF (129 KB) Download Information on the Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy Suppliers, Section Occupational Health and Safety PDF (230 KB) Download Information on the Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy Suppliers, Section Environmental Protection PDF (165 KB) Download Product-related environmental protection European legislation like REACH and RoHS require manufacturers and suppliers to provide information about restricted substances that needs to be passed on through the supply chain. As such, Siemens Energy and its affiliated companies requires suppliers to declare whether products delivered to Siemens Energy contain any substances that are restricted by such legislation. For doing so, suppliers need to complete the Siemens Energy Substance Declaration to begin with, which is based on the List of Declarable Substances. In cases where suppliers have products that contain restricted substances as specified through the Siemens Energy Substance Declaration, suppliers must declare such content to Siemens Energy. To provide the opportunity for our suppliers to increase their efficiency concerning substance declaration, Siemens Energy prefers the centralized database, called BOMcheck, where suppliers can insert their substance declaration. Siemens Energy list of declarable substances Reach REACH - Regulation (EC) 1907/2006 is the European Chemicals Regulation concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of Chemicals. It has been in force since 2007 and replaces 40 individual laws. Its scope of validity covers all substances as such and in chemical mixtures (formally called preparations) or in selected articles and applications. The European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) is responsible for ensuring that the REACH Regulation is implemented and monitored. The aim of the Regulation is to protect human health and the environment. The REACH Regulation is considered to be one of the world's most stringent chemicals laws.&nbsp;The abbreviation "REACH" derives from the English title of the Regulation: R egulation concerning the Registration, E valuation, A uthorization and Restriction of CH emicals. Substances of very high concern (SVHC) on the REACH Candidate List BOMCheck: Siemens Energy preferred Supplier Substance Declaration Method Our suppliers must complete the declaration on "Declarable Substances", which is based on the "List of declarable substances". Together with other manufacturing companies, including Philips, GE, Agfa, Hitachi, Toshiba, IBM, Intel and Canon we have been supporting an industry-wide initiative of efficient substance declaration via a web database called BOMcheck. BOMcheck provides an easy-interface method to enter the requested data for substance declaration and can be accessed by all your participating customers. We would like to encourage you to join BOMcheck and use this database to provide us with the requested substance declaration for your products. More detailed information on BOMcheck, how it can help you to provide substance data to multiple customers and how you can register can be found at: Access to BOMCheck and registration RoHS Since July 2006, the "Restrictions of Hazardous Substances (RoHS)" European Directive 2002/95/EC has banned the use of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium as well as the flame retardants polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) and polybrominated diphenylethers (PBDEs). Besides the reduction of hazardous implication for humans and the environment, RoHS regulations shall improve recycling in such a way that in the long term recycling costs can be reduced. Siemens Energy has implemented the European Union's RoHS directive. For example we are switching to lead-free soldering methods in our manudacturing operations and avoid RoHS substances in our products. In doing so, we expect from our suppliers to be also compliant to this directive. Further information on RoHS Technical Safety – Dangerous Goods The aim of the dangerous goods regulations is also our goal: To prevent – as far as possible – risks to persons or property and damage to the environment, the means of transport used or to other goods as far as possible. Compliance with the dangerous goods regulations assures that risks will be eliminated or reduced to a minimum. Safe transport of dangerous goods Requirements towards our supplier Conclusion of a contract with service providers Data delivery Contact and Downloads Compliance with dangerous goods regulations is guaranteed by a worldwide network of properly trained employees throughout the complete transport chain - classification of our products, selection of transport mode, packing, shipping, use of service providers, etc. Our procurement and development departments are already focusing their attention on these regulations to assure our products can be transported worldwide in full compliance with the applicable legal requirements. As a global player, we also strive to serve our customers in this area in a safe manner without delay or objection. Our suppliers are required to ship dangerous goods in compliance with the dangerous goods regulations applicable for the goods and the transport mode ordered, with simultaneous consideration of relevant national or operator variations. This may also include additional requirements for permitted inner packaging for planned successional transports as given in an order which also have to be taken into account. During the initial process of quotation, suppliers are required to provide data on the dangerous goods to ensure that: dangerous goods will be identified even when contained in equipment especially for components and assemblies which will be integrated into a product, the possibility of transporting the planned product can be checked by us at the earliest stage of development. When making a contract with service providers (freight forwarders, packers etc.), the necessary dangerous goods information will be provided by the contracting entity at Siemens Energy (also including affiliates) as required in the dangerous goods regulations. The list of the dangerous goods data on which we need information is available in the Downloads. They may alternatively be given as part of a Material Safety Data Sheet containing all the necessary data if dangerous materials are concerned. For lithium cells or batteries - also packed with or contained in equipment – and for non-spillable, wet batteries – also contained for example in an uninterruptible power supply - the given forms (see Downloads) have to be used if the certification (specific for battery type and manufacturer) is not already available at Siemens Energy. According to our experience, the following points have to be kept in mind: Some goods classified as dangerous goods may be transported as a complete or partial exception to the dangerous goods regulations of a specific carrier. This must not result in the classification "no dangerous goods" being given! The correct classification according to the dangerous goods regulations has to be given to ensure that goods can be properly classified for all transport modes used. Lithium batteries may only be assembled from tested lithium cells and have to be tested according to the applicable battery tests (38.3 UN Manual of Tests and Criteria). If you have any questions regarding this subject, contact your Siemens Energy partners. They will involve their competent safety adviser for the transport of dangerous goods, the competent division officer or the Corporate Office of Radiation Safety and Dangerous Goods as and when required. Required dangerous goods data PDF (84 KB) Download Legal requirements for Test Summaries according 38.3 UN Manual of Tests and Criteria for Lithium cells and batteries (from 01.01.2020) PDF (377 KB) Download Manufacturer’s or Supplier’s Certification for UN 2800 Batteries, wet, non-spillable PDF (69 KB) Download Manufacturer’s or Supplier’s Certification for Capacitors - Electric Double Layer (EDLC) or Asymmetric PDF (17 KB) Download Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025