Berlin Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Innovation Center Berlin Committed to developing the future, step by step. Change the future of energy with the Innovation Center Berlin Are you ready to be a part of a revolutionary movement? One that's not just observing the shift in energy technology but actively directing it? Welcome to Siemens Energy - leading the global charge towards a more sustainable future. With innovation centers nestled in the dynamic hearts of Berlin, Abu Dhabi, Orlando, and Shenzhen, we're not just witnessing the energy landscape evolve, but we're reshaping it to be better. Understanding that a sustainable future requires reliability and accessibility, we bring you the Berlin Innovation Center (ICB). Our cutting-edge facility, built on the foundation of our historic gas turbine plant, is now the birthplace of innovative ideas that are accelerating the pace of change in the European energy market. At Siemens Energy, change is not just a concept - it's a mission we lead with determination. Step into Siemens Energy, and you'll become part of an eclectic team, committed to driving the energy transition. Through our specialized training and robust internship programs, you'll realize that your potential can indeed be limitless. At Siemens Energy, we're dedicated to nurturing talent that can confidently face the challenges posed by the energy transition. So, are you ready to embark on this groundbreaking journey with us? Remember, at Siemens Energy, you aren't just an observer of the energy transition; you are an essential part of it. Contact Us Meet the Innovation Center Berlin team Key points of contact at the Innovation Center Berlin The Innovation Center Berlin team is excited to help you shape the future. For general inquiries, please email us at Innovationcenter.berlin@siemens-energy.com . To view all team members, please download our Key Points of Contact sheet below. Innovation Center Berlin key contacts PDF (121 KB) Download Innovation Center locations and strategic objectives Connect — Build an ecosystem connecting us with customers, start-ups, industrial partners, governments and universities Ignite — Introduce and foster new skills-set, methods, tools and topics Co-Create — Facilitate customer co-creation to drive the energy transformation Explore — Develop early-stage R&D topics in pre-commercial phase that are beyond the active Business Area portfolio Pilot — Execute rapid prototyping of MVPs to validate early-stage concepts for commercialization Showcase — Make visible the approaches, opportunities and impacts of our innovations Siemens Energy Innovation Centers are located in Berlin, Abu Dhabi, Orlando, and Shenzhen First EU Innovation Conference Let's make tomorrow different today. Join us for our “First EU Innovation Conference” on the NEW DATE of March 26, 2025 at the Innovation Center Berlin (ICB) . The event will be a congregation of bright minds, featuring keynote speakers from various fields, workshops conducted by experts, and a chance to engage in insightful talks with innovators from all over Europe. Learn more 5 Fields of Action 1. Carbon & Product Circularity Converting renewable power electro- chemically into higher value products. 2. 24/7 Carbon Free Energy The conversion of electrical energy into a form in which it can be stored until converted back. 3. Resilient Grid and Reliability Using various technologies to enable more efficient electric 4. Decarbonized Heat and Industrial Processes Improving the generation from heat with substantial reduction toward zero or negative emission of greenhouse gases. 5. Conditioned-based Service Interventions Using digital advancements to expand our service offerings and increase customer value. Learn more about our success stories CertaLink Energy Certification Guaranteed green fuels from renewable sources are key to trust in the sustainability of products declared as green manufactured. Manufacturers and customers expect products where the source of the energy used is verified and certified as reliably green. Siemens Energy, through its Innovation Center Berlin, TUV Sud and dena have set up a scalable blockchain partner ecosystem that tags products with a CertaLink Energy Certificate verifying their green energy sourcing from generation to consumption. Combining complementary expertise with innovative co-creation, we have developed a cutting-edge decentralized digital business platform that provides automated and tamperproof certificates in almost real-time This solution is already being used in pilot projects, such as the certification of green fuels from Haru Oni’s production plant and green hydrogen from Nobian’s electrolysis plant, both of which use renewable energy sources. Learn more How will you shape the future? Contact us today! Contact Us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025