Single Shaft Compressors Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Single-shaft centrifugal compressors Single-shaft centrifugal compressors with flexible design for decarbonization and industrial applications From standard processes to high-pressure applications, our single-shaft compressors are the ideal solution for a wide range of industries and process applications. They are designed to customer specifications and API 617 standards. Compression solutions can be supplied in a variety of configurations from skid mounted, combining the compressor with its driver and auxiliaries, to single lift process modules where we can fully integrate compressors, drivers and process equipment such as coolers, scrubbers, separators, piping, and wiring. Module fabrication can be done in our yard or contracted out to qualified yards in destination countries to fulfill local content requirements. Horizontally split casings Covering a wide performance range in terms of pressure ratio and volume flow, our horizontally split single-shaft compressors can compress gases with suction temperatures as low as required for LNG boil-off gas service (-160 °C / -256 °F). Several process stages can be housed in each casing depending on process requirements. These include straight-through, back-to-back or double flow configurations while side streams and intercooling can be accommodated as well. Up to three casings can be arranged in line to be driven by a single prime mover. The horizontal casing split allows for easy access to the compressor internals for inspection and maintenance without the need to remove the casing from the base plate or to detach process gas piping. Depending on process specifics, optional adjustable inlet guide vanes in front of the first impeller can optimize energy efficiency under part load conditions. Features Performance data Applications Features Dry gas sealing systems Up to four process stages Up to 10 impellers per casing Intercooling, side streams and extractions Standard oil lubricated or active magnetic bearings Optional adjustable inlet guide vanes (IGV) Ultra-low temperature service Performance Data Impeller diameter: 225 to 1,900 mm / 8.85 to 74.8 inches Volume flows: 250 to 600,000 m³/h / 150 to 350,000 cfm Discharge pressure: up to 100 bar /1,450 psi depending on type of gas Speed: up to 22,000 U/min Prime movers: steam turbines, gas turbines, fixed speed and variable speed electric motors Select applications On- and offshore oil and gas production Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Petrochemicals Olefins and PDH Refineries Fertilizer For a complete list, please contact us. Vertically split casings Our vertically split single-shaft compressors (barrel type) cover a wide performance range in terms of volume flow and pressure ratio with up to 1,000 bar / 14,500 psi discharge pressure. They allow for ultra-low suction temperatures (down to -160 °C / -256 °F) required for LNG boil-off gas service. The next generation of single shaft compression Evolving from our world class DATUM and STC centrifugal compressors, meet the STC-SVm. The STC-SVm platform incorporates the best of the best technologies from our existing compressor portfolio combining well proven components with cutting edge features. Several process stages and side streams can be included in each casing depending on process requirements, including intercooling. All compressor internals are arranged as a bundle that can be pulled horizontally out of the casing to allow easy access for inspection and maintenance. This configuration eliminates the need to remove gas piping. Depending on process specifics, optional adjustable inlet guide vanes in front of the first impeller can optimize energy efficiency under part load conditions. Features Performance data Applications Features Dry gas sealing systems Up to four process stages Up to 10 impellers per casing Intercooling, side streams and extractions Standard oil lubricated or active magnetic bearings Optional adjustable inlet guide vanes (IGV) Ultra-low temperature service Performance Data Volume flows: 250 to 600,000 m³/h / 150 to 280,000 cfm Discharge pressure: up to 1,000 bar /14,500 psi depending on type of gas Speed: up to 25,000 U/min Prime movers: steam turbines, gas turbines, fixed speed and variable speed electric motor Select applications On- and offshore oil and gas production Natural gas distribution, storage and retrieval Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Petrochemicals Olefins and PDH Refineries Fertilizer Methanol For a complete list, please contact us. Taking the next step: Advanced hydrogen compression for a sustainable future We’re excited to introduce our latest development, the advanced hydrogen turbocompressor, designed to serve pure hydrogen, hydrogen-rich, and other low mole weight applications. Hydrogen compressors Dry gas seals for centrifugal compressors Our goal is to minimize your ongoing wet oil seal costs, unscheduled downtime and resulting productivity losses. Dry gas seals Remote Diagnostic Service (RDS) for turbocompressors Our Remote Diagnostic Service (RDS) satisfies the increasing requirements placed on turbocompressors by various industries and applications. We offer recommendations and advise you on optimizing equipment operation, preventing operational disturbances and unplanned outages, and performing preventive maintenance. Download flyer Latest articles Delivering on the promise of CCUS CCUS will play a crucial role in driving a successful energy transition by enabling decarbonization of industries that are difficult to fully electrify or that rely heavily.... Read more Compressors for Large-Scale Direct Air Capture Plant Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp (6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. Read more The 'Green New Era' for Turbomachinery Carbon capture utilization, and storage technologies are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals. Read more Compression Down Under As the world's largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for renewable energy, Australia is in a....... Read more Old Technology, New Application Historically, axial compressors have been the technology of choice for meeting high-flow..... Read more Compressors are hydrogen 'colour blind' Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a given compression ratio in fewer stages than..... Read more Get answers: FAQs on Single shaft compressors What are single shaft compressors? Single shaft compressors are a type of centrifugal compressors that uses a rotating impeller to increase the pressure and velocity of a gas. It is characterized by having one or more impellers mounted on a single shaft, which is supported by bearings at both ends. Single shaft compressors are a reliable and efficient solution for various gas compression applications, particularly those requiring high flow rates and low to moderate pressure ratios. Their compact design, high efficiency, and cost-effectiveness make them a popular choice in many industries. They can be applied in a wide range of industrial applications, including decarbonization and high-pressure processes. What are the limitations of a single shaft compressor? Single shaft compressors are not a good fit for very low flow applications and can have lower efficiency at part load operation. They are also more sensitive to applications in which the process gas has widely varying mole weights. In such applications a positive displacement type compressor could be a better fit. What is the pressure ratio for a single shaft compressor? The pressure ratio for single shaft compressors can vary widely depending on the specific design and application. For example, horizontally split single-shaft compressors can achieve discharge pressures up to 100 bar (1,450 psi), while vertically split single-shaft compressors can reach up to 1,000 bar (14,500 psi) 56. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025