CAES Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Compressed Air Energy Storage Longtime storage - thermal mechanical storage solutions Thermal mechanical long-term storage is an innovative energy storage technology that utilizes thermodynamics to store electrical energy as thermal energy for extended periods. Siemens Energy Compressed air energy storage (CAES) is a comprehensive, proven, grid-scale energy storage solution. We support projects from conceptual design through commercial operation and beyond. Our CAES solution includes all the associated above ground systems, plant engineering, procurement, construction, installation, start-up services and long term service support. Get in touch with our experts Long-duration power storage: cost-effective and at grid-scale As renewable power generation from wind and solar grows in its contribution to the world’s energy mix, utilities will need to balance the generation variability of these sustainable resources with demandfluctuations. Power-generation operators can use compressed air energy storage (CAES) technology for a reliable, cost-effective, and long-duration energy storage solution at grid scale. Siemens Energy CAES improves utilization of renewable energy resources by absorbing GW-hours of energy that would otherwise be curtailed and provides grid balancing and reserve services with lower fuel usage and carbon footprint than other controllable resources. Get the fact sheet here Diabatic CAES Cycle Schematic: D-CAES Diabatic storage units dissipate part of the compression heat into the atmosphere with intercoolers. The air must be reheated to be returned to the CAES cycle. Energy and ancillary services with low fuel consumption provide best efficiency. Adiabatic CAES Cycle Schematic: A-CAES The adiabetic CAES cycle stores energy in form of pressure in a cavern, while compression heat is stored in a thermal storage. For re-electrification both forms of energy are being utilized. No additional fuel is needed to heat up the released air. Proven components packaged for a new market Expansion Train Flexible and efficient power generation with 90 percent turndown of rated output 160 MW and 140MW design output 90 percent turndown 20 percent ramp rate per minute 10 minute start-up to reach full generation Dual re-heat recuperator H2 co-firing Read more about: SGT-800 SST-800 Gearbox Recuperator Generator Compressor Train Flexible and efficient load absorption with 30 percent turndown of rated output Up to 120 MW per compression train 30 percent turndown 30 percent ramp rate per minute 4 minute start-up to reach full load Read more about: Integrally-geared compressors Gearbox Large Air Compressors The compressor portfolio of Siemens offers efficiency and reliability on a long-term basis. It's made to meet customers’ needs in any industry. Learn more Industrial Steam turbine As a market leader for industrial steam turbines, we offer a comprehensive range of reliable and versatile steam turbines for the power output range from 2 to 250 MW. Our industrial steam turbines are designed for easy constructability, fast start-up and economical operation. Learn more Generator Reliable generators from 0.3 up to 2,235 MVA - the perfect solution wherever power has to be generated quickly, reliably and efficiently Learn more Benefits Responds quickly Responds quickly - Designed to be started and brought to full load in less than 10 minutes, eliminating the need for intermediate-load plants and providing a cost-effective way to meet spinning reserve requirements. Excellent load-following capability and exceptional part-load efficiency CAES generation also has excellent load-following capability and exceptional part-load efficiency . Full compression in less than five minutes Full compression can be available in less than five minutes to quickly absorb load rather than reducing your base load generation. Flexible cycling options Flexible cycling options - The CAES plant allows for independent operation of the compression and expansion systems, allowing for simultaneous load absorption and balancing. Generation efficiency Generation efficiency - Relatively flat heat rate across all operating ranges, thus overall generation efficiency is near the same at 10 percent as it is at 100 percent. Days of storage Days of storage - The intermittency of renewables coupled with unpredictable weather patterns means the reality of long periods where balancing is paramount to absorbing renewables. Applications Performance Summary Applications CAES is the ideal solution for energy and ancillary services including: Load leveling / balancing Ramping regulation Frequency oscillation Transmission optimization VAR support Performance Summary Power Output System Flow LHV Heat Rate LHV Fuel Usage MW lbm / s BTU / kWh lbm / s 160 317 3855 8.5 105 226 3881 5.6 85 199 3906 4.6 65 168 3940 3.5 50 147 3980 2.7 35 116 4035 1.9 20 87 4208 1.2 16 73 4254 0.9 Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025