SIPAPER Power Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SIPAPER Power Electrical supply and power management rolled into one In the fiber business as in other industries, electrical power supply requirements are becoming more and more complex. In addition to the traditional need to reliably, safely, and economically distribute electricity from the generator or incoming grid down to the consumers, there are new emerging challenges, including the need to implement governmental directives to save power, and to utilize the growing amount of renewable energy that's being fed into the grid, which is making grid control increasingly complex. The latter can result in voltage fluctuations and even cause plant downtime. SIPAPER Power allows you to safely and reliably engineer, plan, and realize your factory power distribution system while providing you with the tools to meet today's new demands and challenges. Contact us Supplying innovative drive solution for Progroup AG's new PM 3 At Progroup Paper AG’s paper factory of in Sandersdorf- Brehna, Saxony-Anhalt, Germany, one of the most modern paper machines (PM3) is producing high-quality containerboard from wastepaper. We supply the power distribution and electrification, including the Sipaper DCS APL process control system based on Simatic PCS 7, as well as a multi-motor drive solution based on gearless drives with Sipaper Drives APL Standard. Learn more Get the performance you need – with intelligent power distribution A pulp and paper mill places intensive demands on electricity supply and power management: High electricity loads must be distributed to different energy consumers safely, reliably, and economically. To satisfy these requirements with maximum efficiency, SIPAPER Power acts as a fully integrated electricity supply and power management system in combination with PCS 7 Power Control. It all starts at the planning stage of your paper mill’s new power network with the high, medium, and low voltage switchgear. Comprehensive power distribution for paper mills SIPAPER Power performs everything – from controlling supply and distribution to open- and closed-loop control of all your loads. It's a fully integrated power distribution and management system for planning and monitoring the power supply for the complete process chain in your paper factory. This also includes a power supply for black starts and emergency power operation. In conjunction with intelligent control and switching devices and our integrated communications network, SIPAPER Power offers the right technical solutions for all of your requirements: high availability, adequate supply capacity, expandability and scalability, consistently high power quality, and environmental compatibility. It goes without saying that it's also economical, saves resources, and is easy to operate. SIPAPER Power includes all the necessary components to build a complex power distribution system for your mill, including power and distribution transformers, HV, MV, and LV switchgear in AIS or GIS versions, and appropriate protection systems. In addition a fully integrated energy management system (EMS/SCADA) based on Simatic PCS 7 provides you with all the functions you need to reliably monitor and operate  your mill distribution system. The EMS also includes an intelligent load management module that accurately determines the required loads to be shed and a generator management system (GMS) that optimizes your profits by running the generators in the most efficient range. Using energy efficiently while optimizing your power supply With SIPAPER Power you benefit from a dual energy-saving concept. First, we implement energy-efficient components that precisely match your requirements: for example, avoiding unnecessary over-rating that makes the components work in an inefficient range. Second, you'll benefit from the EMS/SCADA system that not only offers high transparency by monitoring and controlling the energy flows but also contributes to the overall optimization of energy resources with its generator management system (GMS) – by optimizing the generators to run in the most efficient range and monitoring the automatic load balancing of the turbine generator sets. Power control technology for a transparent energy flow Thanks to sophisticated power control technology, SIPAPER Power gives you an overview of all processes in your electrical installations at all times and provides you with essential service information. The system monitors and records all switching processes throughout your entire factory using smart devices like Simocode®, Siprotec control, and fiber-optic networks. This allows you to predict load requirements and inform the operator, or take action to prevent the mill's power demand from rising to unacceptably high load peaks that result in extra charges. Cost-optimized planning from experienced specialists SIPAPER Power stands for power supply solutions from a single source – fully integrated and coordinated, across all voltage levels, and over the entire lifecycle. The network design starts with the collection of all relevant mill data, including consumer power requirements, starting characteristics of large drives, short-circuit capacity of all components, and grid parameters. Other criteria need to be considered in the engineering,for example, emergency and back-up concepts, mill availability and grid requirements. Finally to verify the mill's design and optimize the recovery time after a mill network or grid supply fault, dynamic network simulations based on fault scenarios are created to guarantee maximum reliability. Innovative services for the digital future of industry Our Industry Services help make your machines and plants more profitable and efficient throughout their entire lifecycle, and allow you to exploit the opportunities of digitalization while reducing your total cost of ownership. Industry services Greater productivity – thanks to perfectly tailored solutions With our SIPAPER solutions, we help ensure success in the fiber industry worldwide. Greenpac Mill, Niagara Falls, New York The new mill was designed to be one of the most energy-efficient in the world. Complete e-package to end customer: power transformers/power distribution systems. Reliable, economical solutions from a single source to supply power for the entire process. Your power is our concern Any questions about energy systems? Let our fiber industry experts help you find the optimal solution for your specific requirements. Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025