Digitalization Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Tackling the digital transformation Securing the way to the digital transformation of the process industry and profit from its benefits. With Siemens Energy as your partner, the digital transformation of your fiber processing company is easier than you might think – with many benefits for you. Maximize your workflow efficiency and boost the quality of your products. Request your maturity check The need for digitalization in the fiber industry Today the global industrial landscape is in full transformation, and it's giving companies unusual latitude to influence future industry structures. The industrial renewal can only happen if companies are prepared to unleash global opportunities for value creation through digitalization, advances in automation, big data, and the Internet of Things – together with Siemens. How does digitalization improve plant performance and maintenance? With today's high demand for fiber, unexpected downtime and failures in the process can lead to a dramatic loss of money and time. With digitally enhanced electrification and automation, process industries can profit greatly from reduced downtime and optimized plant efficiency and performance. To optimize process control loops , the cloud Asset management system modul for process loop analytics. Enables keeping them on efficient level as requested. Integrated to the customer cloud landscape or hosted via asset management performance management. Connected with SIPAPER DCS ensures optimized process, control and service. How can digitalization improve data transparency? As fiber processing becomes more and more complex, the amount of data that's created is also increasing rapidly. Data transparency is a major factor in mastering these challenges in the modern process industry. Data silos, huge amounts of non-managed  “bulk” data, and a lack of detailed information on products and processes often limit plant productivity. With the real-time management information system, you get a highly performant and easy to configure scalable standard software that enables you to speed up your data flow. How can digital simulation boost the efficiency of process? Highly efficient production isn't just about building production lines in the shortest possible setup and commissioning time, it's also about predicting possible fault sources in your plant and automation systems as early as the planning stage in order to optimize them for failure prevention. One Digital simulation feature with our Digital Fiber assistance simulation and control software integrated in all existing data infrastructures allows for comprehensive testing of automation projects and the virtual commissioning of systems, machines, and processes. What's more, the simulation platform can also be used for realistic training of operating personnel, which guarantees safe, efficient system operation. The road to digitalization How fit is your company for digitalization? Siemens provides you with the possibility to compare your progress on the road to digitalization with your competitors. We provide various levels of consultancy to support you in getting started with digitalization now! 1. Discussion and assessment Understanding your needs, challenges and pain points is the first step towards digitalization. We offer you in-depth discussions and assess the digital maturity of your value chain. 2. Generating business ideas The next step is to define a strategy. Therefore we generate business ideas and develop target-oriented initiatives to set a global timeline for your digital transformation. 3. Start your digital transformation Now you are ready to start your digital transformation. We help you with the detailed planning of project budgets and the technical specifications for solutions and use cases. Siemens Energy and VTT: Building on a new digital ecosystem Digitalization and innovation are our passion. We are your forward-thinking partner for digitalizing the industry and  developing new technologies. To help digitalization grow more and to revolutionize the fiber industry, Siemens Energy has formed many collaborations with a variety of processing companies like VTT, Technical Research Centre of Finland. Starting the dialogue: Siemens Energy and VTT to develop digital forest industry for a green future As the forest industry changes, new types of processes are required. New types of fiber, biomass processing, and recycling are bringing new challenges to conventional processes. With the recently formed collaboration between VTT and Siemens Energy, the digital forest industry and the fiber processing industry can expect a huge boost in the future. VTT's expertise in the forest industry combined with the innovative technology solutions from Siemens Energy help ecosystem development reach a new level. By creating Bioruukkii, a pilot testing environment for research, the development and commercialization of our innovations will be realized in an agile manner. By offering its COMOS lifecycle software and the MindSphere connection, Siemens Energy is providing IoT standards and information technology for this high-tech development environment. Siemens Energy technologies Siemens Energy will provide technology solutions to the collaboration project, including COMOS process lifecycle management software and the open cloud IoT solution. In addition, Siemens Energy will act as an international sales channel for solutions developed in the project. The COMOS lifecycle management software makes it possible to speed up the design process and increase and optimize process efficiency throughout the lifecycle in order to improve competitiveness. The cloud IoT operating system allows data to be transferred between the process model and the actual process. The process model is a virtual copy of the actual process, a digital twin that optimizes, simulates, and utilizes process design data throughout its lifecycle. Data are typically owned by the process owner – the end customer – who also decides on sharing the data with other operators. As a fully open IoT solution, MindSphere is an easy-to-use platform for ecosystems capable of developing digital services, applications, and new business models. The digital economy is outcome economy where results or value are sold instead of products and services, and this will inevitably change the prevailing business models. Follow the Digital Fiber Initiative on X Applications to reveal insights and realize the value of your data Applications from partners, such as Siemens MindApps and others open up new possibilities to realize the value of your IoT data. Industry-focused applications help bring transparency and fidelity to your products and processes. Develop dedicated applications for your business or customer and drive analytics and insights throughout the value stream. Comprehensive cyber protection – throughout the entire lifecycle Siemens Energy helps its customers take advantage of technology advances while simultaneously minimizing exposure to risk in areas like cybersecurity. An optimal security solution can only be implemented if it's continuously updated to recognize new threats. We address security issues both for the company internally and for its customers. Minimizing risk in the area of cybersecurity means using comprehensive security mechanisms and integrating security activities into the entire lifecycle. Security considerations need to be taken into account during development and engineering as well as service and operational activities. With the concept “defense in depth,” Siemens provides comprehensive security mechanisms that unite physical security, network security, and system and software integrity. Our solutions help ensure your success in the fiber industry – worldwide Whether you're implementing our solutions in new plants or performing a migration during your ongoing operations: Our solutions enable more efficient and more intelligent production throughout the world. In our references, you can learn about our comprehensive fiber industry expertise and customized solutions. Greenpac: The brains of the mill Higher system availability and flexibility Less HMI, maximum data transparency Single view of the entire facility: minimized development, implementation, and lifecycle costs and reduced engineering resources Beihai Mill, China: Intelligence from the cloud In total, Stora Enso produces some 450,000 metric tons of packaging material per year in its ultra-modern digital factory Concrete fields of digital application: control performance analytics for control loops as well as process event prediction for smart alarm handling, for example. Their shared goal: the first entirely digital factory for Stora Enso Power distribution: High-, medium-, and low-voltage switchgear, power transformers and distribution transformers, emergency power supply, SCADA system, all engineering services Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025