Power Intelligence energy management Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Enhancing industrial efficiency with Power Intelligence energy management Power Intelligence is a comprehensive portfolio of digital products and solutions from Siemens Energy. These are designed to enable power utilities and industries to unlock the full potential of their electrical infrastructure. They provide insightful data for decision-making, enhance asset management, improve reliability and efficiency, and reduce operational costs. Our portfolio aligns with the ISO 50001 energy management standard, integrates load shedding for blackout prevention and power generation management for stabilized and optimized energy use. Furthermore, it employs IEC 61850 MMS and GOOSE Communication standard for reliable and high-speed data exchange. Get in touch! What are the benefits of Power Intelligence within an industrial plant? Energy managers Power Intelligence supports plant energy managers with user-friendly dashboarding and holistic, automated reporting to ensure full transparency on energy consumption and carbon footprint. It digitalizes data from electrical assets, producers, prosumers and consumers. Operators Power Intelligence increases the overall level of automation in the power generation and electrical power distribution thereby facilitating the work of plant operators and ensuring the overall availability. Owners Power Intelligence makes sure to minimize the effect of outages in power generation and grid supply on production ensuring that plant owners can count on increased uptime. The intelligent power management and optimization solution for process industries, green hydrogen and power-to-x Our intelligent power management system solution serves all kinds of energy-intensive process industries and new kinds of industrial processes being developed for energy transition, such as green hydrogen production and other power-to-x concepts. Which industrial challenges do we solve with our power management system? Electrical challenges decarbonization vs. increasing power demand increased regulatory requirements (ISO 50001) continuity of power supply and demand increase of renewable energy sources unstable grid networks increased flexibility in production reduction of green-house gases Control system challenges predictive maintenance of power assets integration of process and power systems big data process & power analytics higher demand for cyber security communication standards (IEC 61850, GOOSE) upgrade of old power control systems complexity of grown plant systems Holistic intelligent power management for producers, prosumers and consumers The energy landscape in grids and industrial plants is changing tremendously. Power Intelligence integrates and controls all the different producers such as turbines and renewables, prosumers such as battery systems and consumers such as electrolyzers and compressors reliably and efficiently. Get in touch! For more information, reach out to us via email. Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025