Control system services for power generation Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Control system services for power generation Whether wind, solar, gas or steam power plant: the control system plays a decisive role in the reliability of your plant. We provide tailor-made services for our Omnivise T3000 control system. From urgent cases to long-term service support for distributed control systems (DCS) – we know how important it is to have a reliable service partner. That’s why we at Siemens Energy have designed our control system services with your needs at the center : Remote expert services, instrumentation and control (I&C) lifecycle and system maintenance services, and cybersecurity services. Services for power plant automation and electrical systems We offer a holistic portfolio for power plant automation and electrical systems across the entire lifecycle. Our services are mostly related to our proven Omnivise T3000 control system. Our plant maintenance services for I&C systems and electrical components extend from spare parts, repairs, system upgrades and modernization to training, cybersecurity solutions and remote expert onsite service support. With our experience in supporting power plants from cradle to grave, you benefit from expert advice and get the best out of your plant. More than 4,000 successful installations worldwide, ranging from renewable generation units like offshore wind applications to conventional power plants like highly efficient combined cycle power plants, rely on our regional and central services for control systems. Our experts will be happy to support you! Contact us What sets our control system services apart 24/7 support all year long 5 Remote Expert Center (REC) worldwide More than 4,000 installations under contract 95% of all incidents cleared within 170 minutes The right control system service offerings for your needs From system expert services, I&C lifecycle and maintenance support, and the full cybersecurity range - our services are build around your needs. See for yourself! System expert services Learn more Single touch point that enables operators to get all the help they need Hotline to our Remote Expert Center for emergency support Remote system maintenance support and preventive services Comprehensive cybersecurity support by our cybersecurity operations center (cSOC) Lifecycle services Learn more Continuous system maintenance and smart upgrade concepts to keep top performance and security Upgrades to current release versions of Omnivise T3000 Comprehensive system and security patches Scalable scope of remote and onsite services Cybersecurity services Learn more Coverage of the full Cybersecurity range by industrial cybersecurity experts Coverage of the full cybersecurity range: identifiy, response, detection and recovery of systems by cSOC (specialized expert team combining cybersecurity skills and OT know-how) Maintaining secure systems by patching and malware pattern provision A reference that illustrates our impact Wien Energie: Supported by cybersecurity experts MVA Spittelau, Wien Energie GmbH “ The REC cybersecurity team fully convinced us that their offering optimally complements Wien Energie's exisiting processes. Philipp Lellek, OT Cybersecurity Expert, Wien Energie GmbH Siemens Energy‘s Remote Expert Center (REC) cybersecurity team supports Wien Energie, the regional energy supplier of the Austrian capital, with a combination of preventive and corrective services. In most cases, local operators do not have access to the necessary expertise. With the support of our experts, who have both IT and operational technology (OT) cybersecurity expertise, Wien Energie was able to prepare itself for the future. Download flyer Further offers and products Power Academy Customer Energy Portal The Power Academy is the hub of all controls and electrical related trainings within Siemens Energy. Offering a broad variety from classroom trainings to on-site and virtual reality (VR) trainings, you can decide what best fits your business needs. Learn more The Customer Energy Portal is your one-stop source for information about your Siemens Energy portfolio. It offers access to a multitude of support tools in an always available digital platform. It is a secure online platform, that gives you 24/7 access to sites specific up-to-date information. Learn more Omnivise T3000 control system Most of our services are built on our proven Omnivise T3000 control system. The changing energy landscape brings new challenges. The latest version of Omnivise T3000 supports you with the innovations you need to build a bridge to the energy system of tomorrow – for conventional power plants as well as for decentralized power generation with renewable energies. Learn more Contact us! At Siemens Energy, we built our Services with a focus on minimizing downtimes while maximizing performance, cut costs, and commitment to continuous improvement. We provide a comprehensive service for instrumentation, power plant automation and electrical systems. With our experience to support power plants from cradle to grave, we offer intelligent service concepts for plant maintenance throughout the entire lifecycle. Curious? Contact us! Do you have any questions? Please contact us if you would like to learn more about our consultancy and advisory services. First name Last name Email Phone number Company name Country/region Country/region Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Ascension Island Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius & Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See / Vatican City Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Côte d’Ivoire Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea, Democratic People's Rep Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia/South Sandwich South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St. Barts St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Martin St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Eswatini Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine Union of the Comoros United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay US Minor Outlying Islands USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Job role Job role Corporate Engineering Operations/maintenance Procurement/purchasing Administrative Business development/sales Consulting Finance Human resources IT Legal Marketing Media/communication Product management Production Project management Quality assurance Research/student Sustainability Facility management Investor relations/analyst Other Is your inquiry related to installed equipment? Yes No Industry (Select up to three) Industry (Select up to three) Automotive Banking, financial institutions, and insurances Buildings and construction Cement Ceramic and glass Chemicals Chemicals - biochemicals Chemicals - petrochemicals Chemicals - rubber and plastics Conventional power generation Data center Food and beverage Healthcare Industrial gases and air separation Maritime Mining, metals and minerals Mobility and transport infrastructure Oil and gas downstream Oil and gas midstream Oil and gas upstream Other Power distribution Power transmission Power-to-X and e-fuels Public sector Pulp and paper Renewable power generation Research and education Rubber and plastics Semiconductor Water and wastewater management Please let us know how we can help you Marketing consent I would like to receive marketing information from Siemens Energy based on my personal interests and give my consent as described in detail here. Send Are you a Siemens Energy equipment owner? You can access exclusive documents relevant to your unit on the Customer Energy Portal. CEP log-in Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read SWE Energie, Germany: Up-to-the-minute power generation with Omnivise T3000 control system 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation 3 min read NCPA, United States: DCS automation solution enhances their geothermal operations See all stories Read more July 21, 2022 Washington, DC Siemens Energy Takes Next Step to Protect Critical Infrastructure May 30, 2022 Munich From a bird’s-eye view: multi-sensor system and artificial intelligence ensure secure power supply See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025