Topsides Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Topsides 4.0 A digital lifecycle approach for optimizing offshore Oil and Gas production Topsides 4.0 Whitepaper PDF (1 MB) Download The industry’s first completely integrated solution for digitalizing offshore Oil and Gas production With Topsides 4.0 we can help you answer any challenges you might experience, especially in a lower for longer oil price environment. Our engineered expertise is unrivaled in meeting the ever changing needs of EPCs and Owner Operators who are now rethinking how to manage the entire life-cycle of their assets. Siemens Energy has developed Topsides 4.0 - a comprehensive digital life-cycle approach designed to help offshore operators harness the full power of digital transformation for rotating equipment, electrical, instrumentation, and automation systems. This all starts with digitally configuring solutions jointly with our clients during the conceptual and design phases of their projects, progresses through manufacturing to virtual testing. All delivering an intelligent digital twin of the topsides facility for life cycle decision support and asset optimization. This effectively enables our clients to maximize the performance of critical equipment, and do end-to-end asset optimization. Making the digital leap Topsides 4.0 is a digital lifecycle approach to rotating equipment and electrical and automation systems that begins during the conceptual and design phase of a project with the development of a comprehensive digital roadmap. It is during this time that we evaluate how the operator is using data, where the gaps are, and how to best fill them. With that knowledge, Siemens Energy collaborates with the operator and tailors a solution to meet their specific needs. Intelligent digital twin Topsides 4.0 is designed to help offshore operators realize the full potential of Industry 4.0 and overcome the risks that are inherent in offshore projects by reducing capital and operating costs and shortening facility development cycles. This is achieved through digital project management and manufacturing, virtual testing and commissioning, and delivery of an intelligent “Digital Twin” of the topsides facility, which can be used by operators for decision-making support and asset optimization. Transforming offshore oil and gas production Digital solutions have long been applied in other industries to improve efficiency and productivity. The oil and gas industry, however, is just starting to begin its digital transformation. In offshore oil and gas production, many operators are beginning to discover the massive potential digitalization has to offer. Proven solutions brought together in a single, coherent workflow The foundation of Topsides 4.0 is the workflow and data integration of solutions that Siemens Energy has successfully delivered to the oil and gas industry over many years. Although the integrated approach is new, the digital solutions that comprise it have a proven track record of success. Harnessing the power of the Digital Twin Integral to the Topsides 4.0 approach is the creation of an intelligent digital twin, which is constructed in parallel to the physical topsides during the design and build phases of the project. The digital twin’s intelligence derives from the capability to interpret raw data through a variety of analytics, some of which are automated and others that are offered as an OEM service. The automated analytics are independent of an equipment vendor and based on statistical analysis of real-time data from the instrumentation and automation system.  For critical equipment, such as compressors and turbines, this layer of monitoring can be supplemented with OEM-connected services for predictive diagnostics, spare parts management, and outage planning. The digital twin is more than a design tool; it’s more than a punch list of parts to fabricate, and it’s more than the 3D model. It’s the joining of the physical and digital worlds as the asset moves through the three phases of a project: FEED and design, configure and build, operate and maintain. Leverage virtual reality (VR) with COMOS Walkinside COMOS Walkinside allows operators to create a series of real-life scenarios in which employees can literally see and experience the tasks they will be required to perform. They can virtually look around, listen, practice, and learn operational procedures at zero financial or physical risk to themselves or the operator. For example, maintenance personnel can view where equipment is located, if it is accessible from the floor, or if scaffolding or a crane is necessary, all in a 3D digital space. Using the link with the COMOS platform, they can directly access equipment characteristics, maintenance history, and documentation by clicking through on the equipment in the 3D view. Central engineering data hub The use of a single engineering data hub is a key enabler for digitalization and Topsides 4.0. With appropriate IT security measures, engineering and maintenance contractors, equipment and other providers can all share the as-built and as-maintained data image of the plant. Instead of delivering and attempting to maintain hard copy documentation, the different stakeholders deliver and update their MRB as data records, which simplifies and expedites the process substantially. This creates complete transparency of information for each plant object and ultimately optimizes the design process. Safe and secure remote operations The digital revolution has led to significant performance improvements for producers who are harnessing data-driven solutions; however, despite the largely positive developments, connecting critical equipment to cloud-based platforms does mean that the oil and gas industry must be prepared to respond to an evolving security landscape in which cyber threats are the norm. This is particularly critical when extending the operation of the platform to an onshore location, as is the case with Topsides 4.0. A key differentiator of Topsides 4.0 is that all electrical, instrumentation, control, and telecommunications (EICT) systems and equipment are integrated into one cybersecure solution. The EICT design establishes a resilient, reliable, and scalable system backbone and architecture to enable safe operation of the topsides facility from an onshore control center. Maximizing up-time with high reliability and efficiency The SGT-750 delivers lowest total cost of ownership by reducing fuel costs, maintenance operations and outages. With best-in-class performance, a compact, lightweight design, and the lowest carbon footprint and emissions in the market, with single digit NOx over a wide load range. Learn more Products and Solutions Digital Solutions Siemens solutions provide data continuity from early phase concept to end of operational life. These solutions reduce cycle times, improve productivity and support increased uptime. Read more Compressors The compressor portfolio of Siemens offers efficiency and reliability on a long-term basis. It's made to meet customers’ needs in any industry. Read more SGT-750 Gas Turbine SGT-A35 Offshore Gas Turbine Packages Ultra Light Combined Cycle Solutions Press Releases, Articles and White Papers Offshore industry poised for dramatic transformation Read more Optimize offshore maintenance and reduce costs Read more Working to Eliminate Downtime Read more Siemens equipment gets selected for midstream, downstream, offshore applications Read more Your New Execution Model This on-demand webinar draws from reference cases to discuss the lessons we've learned and how new business models and integrated teams represent a new way of working in the oil and gas industry. Register Now Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025