SIWELL Artificial Lift Suite Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications The next level of oil production Digitalization for a global industry Digitalization improves performance of field operations in oil and gas. SIWELL Artificial Lift Suite from Siemens Energy offers next-generation well automation systems with artificial intelligence, smart devices, cloud computing, and IoT. Siemens Energy is optimizing oil production by applying digital technologies Digital technologies are helping almost every industry rewrite its operating landscape, and the oil and gas industry is about to catch up. Advancements in technology, the falling cost of digitalization, and the connectivity of smart devices provide a real competition-beating opportunity for oil and gas companies who play the digital revolution right. The potential benefits of going digital are increased productivity, shorter response and intervention times, cost savings, safer operations, and asset integrity as well as sustainable resource treatment. Read Brouchure SIWELL Artificial Lift Suite with the Simatic Nanobox edge computing device offers the oil industry next-generation automation for well pumps About 40 percent of global crude oil and natural gas production comes from mature fields that have been in operation for more than 25 years. In fact, there are about 175 fields that have been producing for more than 100 years. Oil and gas operators are increasingly investing in so-called artificial lift systems to keep production high at the end of a field’s life. This is where the SIWELL Artificial Lift suite comes in – a scalable, end-to-end IoT solution for the automation and optimization of artificial lift systems. It is designed to optimize production and reduce costs through connected systems, automation, edge analytics, and artificial intelligence. With the latest Siemens edge technology, analytics and intelligence are moving close to the field where the artificial lifts are operating.  SIWELL uses existing sensors and smart automation components as key inputs for edge data analytics. The edge computing device, the Siemens Nanobox, performs real-time processing of the data and enables advanced features like video processing, soft sensing for the replacement of physical sensors, simulation of production facilities, and calculation of advanced KPIs. Performing these calculations at the pump enables independent operation of the well with a minimum of maintenance effort at the well site. Alarm functions with video integration are available and can be accessed via a fully interactive web portal. This innovation offers oil and gas operators a cost-efficient solution to automate and connect artificial lift systems to an integrated network with minimal effort, while providing a high level of automation. The plug-and-play concept in combination with centralized device management can be installed within hours, thus reducing downtimes for commissioning and enabling the centralized management and monitoring of thousands of wells. Artificial intelligence in the cloud enables predictive maintenance and increases performance The solution is tightly integrated with the Siemens MindSphere IoT platform, which connects real things to the digital world and enables powerful industry applications and digital services. It connects production facilities and applications for advanced analytics of multiple wells. Artificial intelligence can be applied to predict failures of the well days before they occur and increases the overall performance of oilfields by optimizing operational set points like pumping speed. “ SIWELL Artificial Lift suite optimizes oil production and works with the utmost efficiency. By applying analytics directly in the field and artificial intelligence in the cloud, we enable autonomous operations of wells, inc Dr. Helmut Schnabl, principal consultant for digital oil and gas at Siemens Energy SIWELL Artificial Lift Suite Optimizing production from mature oilfields Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025