Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin , March  26, 2025  
Siemens Gamesa  to divest  a major ity stake of 
its Indian wind business and enter into strategic 
partnership agreement with TPG  and others  
Siemens Gamesa  and a group of investors led by TPG  intend  to jointly address the Indian onshore 
wind market potential through a new company, in which TPG will be the majority shareholder. 
Siemens Gamesa will divest 90% of its wind business in India and Sri Lanka, retaining a 10% stake in 
the transferred business.  The agreement includes the manufacturing, installation, and service of 
onshore  wind turbines in India and Sri Lanka. As part of the business transfer agreement, Siemens 
Gamesa plans to transfer ca. 1.000 employees and two manufacturing plants in India into the new  
company . Siemens Gamesa will continue to support the business's growth through a long -term 
technology licensing agreement.  The financial details will not be disclosed and the transaction  is 
subject to  customary closing and  regulatory approvals from  the respective authorities.  
 
India is a high growth  market for the wind energy sector, with an anticipated addition of 
approximately 57  GW of capacity by 2032. To ensure the Indian market receives the dedicated 
attention it deserves, Siemens Gamesa has chosen to transfer  majority ownership to TPG, a partner 
with financial strength, extensive experience in the Indian market and a strong commitment to green 
projects globally. This allows Siemens Gamesa to shift  its strategic focus to other core markets.  
 
Vinod Philip, Member of the Board of Siemens Energy, responsible for Siemens Gamesa, commented: 
“India  is and remains an attractive market for wind energy, with significant growth potential. 
However, after thorough analysis, we have determined that our new partner s led by  TPG are the 
optimal owner s to harness this potential. The new company will  serve the Indian market more 
effectively while also offering a long -term perspective for employees and customers . This  ensur es 
continued support and development in this vibrant  market , while Siemen s Gamesa can concentrate 
on other core markets .” 
 
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
Ankur Thadani,  Partner at  TPG and Head of Climate, Asia, commented: “Siemens Gamesa has built a 
leadership position in  India’s  onshore wind market,  and we look forward to partnering with 
them,  MAVCO, and Prashant  to build on their success. We believe onsho re wind will continue to play 
an increasing role in India’s green energy mix and this new platform, with Siemens Gamesa’s world -
class product manufacturing and service offering,  and the backing of TPG and  MAVCO  will continue 
to accelerate the delivery of g igawatts of clean power to millions of Indians across the socio -
economic spectrum.”  
 
As a leading wind turbine manufacturer in India, Siemens Gamesa currently holds a market share of 
ca. 30% . Supported by a robust manufacturing and supply chain base within the country, Siemens 
Gamesa has a cumulative installation base of almost 10 GW  and provides service to  a fleet of more 
than 7 GW under long -term agreements.  The new company  will continue to uphold the same high 
quality standards of customer service.   
 
The Design Center act ivities of Siemens Gamesa’s technology function in India, which employs ca. 
700 employees, plus another 500 employees will not be subject of this tran saction and will remain 
within the global wind power business of Siemens Energy.  
 
 
Note s to edi tors 
• TPG’s investment will be made through TPG Rise Climate, its climate investing platform , marking 
the inaugural investment from its Global South Initiative (a private equity strategy launched in 
partnership with ALTÉERRA, the world’s largest private investment vehicle for climate finance, to 
scale climate solutions across the Global South).  
• Another  significant minority investment alongside TPG  will be made by MAVCO Investments . 
MAVCO is a private company belonging to the families of M.A.M Arunachalam, Vellayan Subbiah 
and Arun Venkatachalam, being the fourth and fifth generation of the Murugappa family with rich 
and diverse experience of managing businesses across industries in I ndia.  
• Prashant Jain, former CEO of JSW Energy, will also pick up a minority stake as Climate Change 
Partner in the venture.  
• Chairman of the Board of Directors of the new company will be Vellayan Subbiah , a well -known 
Indian business leader and part of the Murugappa family. Prashant Jain will serve  as the Executive 
Vice Chairman.  
• Siemens Gamesa will be represented on the Board of Directors of the new company by Vinod 
Philip . 
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact for journalists  
Madhukumar Boppana  
Phone: + 91 984 072 0755    
E-mail: madhukumar.boppana@siemensgamesa.com   
 
Veronica Diaz    
Phone: +34 616 348 735    
E-mail: veronica.diaz -lopez@siemens -energy.com    
 
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on LinkedIn at: https://www.linkedin.com/company/siemens -energy/  
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas 
and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated w ith hydrogen, and power generators and transformers.  
Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An 
estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy 
employs around 100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated  revenue of €3 4.5 billion in fiscal year 
2024. www.siemens -energy.com  
 
TPG Rise Climate  is the dedicated climate investing platform of TPG, a leading global alternative asset management firm. 
With dedicated pools of capital across private equity, transition infrastructure, and the Global South, TPG Rise Climate 
pursues climate -related invest ments that benefit from the diverse skills of TPG’s investing professionals around the world, 
the strategic relationships and insights developed across TPG’s broad portfolio of climate companies, and a global network 
of executives, advisor s, and corporate partners. As part of TPG’s $27 billion global impact investing platform, TPG Rise 
Climate invests broadly across the climate sector, with a focus on building and scaling leading climate solutions across the 
following thematic areas: clean electrons, clean molecules and materials, and negative emissions.  
www.therisefund.com/tpgriseclimate  
 