Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Berlin , February  28, 2025  
Siemens Energy to supply Rolls -Royce with 
turbines for Small Modular Reactors (SMR)  
 
Siemens Energy and Rolls -Royce SMR have entered into a partnership agreement that is expected to 
lead to the exclusive supply of conventional technology for future Small Modular Reactors (SMR). 
Under this agreement, Siemens Energy is to be the sole supplier of steam turbines, generators, and 
other auxiliary systems for the British manufacturer's planned Generatio n 3+ modular nuclear 
power plants. The final contract, detailing all specifics, is expected to be completed by the end of 
2025.  
 
SMRs are considered a promising technology for the future of nuclear energy and a key factor in the 
success of the energy transition. They are more compact, safer, and more cost -efficient than 
conventional nuclear power plants. Rolls -Royce SMR is currently  developing a "mini nuclear power 
plant" that can be operational much faster than traditionally built plants, thanks to its standardized, 
modular design. Rolls -Royce SMR's pressurized water reactors are designed to achieve an electrical 
output of up to 470  megawatts, enough to supply approximately 1.1 million households with 
electricity.  
 
For decades, Siemens Energy has been a supplier and service provider of components for the so -
called "power island," the non -nuclear part of the power plant. The company's solutions for nuclear 
power plants include steam turbines and generators with output s ranging from 20 MW to 
1,900  MW, as well as operational control technology and control systems.  
 
Karim Amin, a member of the Siemens Energy Executive Board, commented: "We are currently 
experiencing a global renaissance of nuclear energy. Numerous countries are turning to nuclear 
technology to produce low -emission electricity, and small modular reacto rs will play a key role in 
this. Siemens Energy brings decades of experience in conventional equipment, while Rolls -Royce 
has the necessary implementation expertise. This perfect symbiosis enables us to jointly shape the 
future of energy supply. We are ver y pleased to be working with Rolls -Royce SMR on this exciting 
project."  Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
 
 
Are you curious about what "Small Modular Reactors" actually are  and how they differ from 
conventional nuclear power plants? Access our factsheet and let one of our experts explain 
what SMRs really are.  
We provide further information on SMRs here www.siemens -energy.de/press/SMR  . 
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Simon Greenhalgh  
Phone: +44 7921 241 835    
E-mail:   simon.greenhalgh@siemens -energy.com  
 
Claudia Nehring  
Phone: +49 162 1668424  
E-mail: claudia.nehring@siemens -energy.com  
 
 
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on LinkedIn : www.linkedin.com/company/siemens -energy/  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power pla nts operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers.  
Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An 
estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens 
Energy employs around 100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated  revenue of €3 4.5 billion in 
fiscal year 202 4. www.siemens -energy.com  
 
 