Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 M unich  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Berlin , June  24, 2024  
1.5 billion US -Dollar  order for Siemens  Energy 
in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle 
power plants for the country's energy supply  
Saudi Arabia has a strategy to reach net zero  by 2060 and is relying on modern, highly efficient gas -
fired power plants in combination with CO 2 capture and storage , to significantly reduce its 
emissions . Siemens Energy is supplying key power plant technolog ies that will provide almost 
4 gigawatts  to the Kingdom , and i n addition has also entered a long -term maintenance contract for 
25 years for the two power plants , with a total value of approximately USD 1.5 billion . 
 
Taiba 2 and Qassim 2, two of the world's largest , modern , and efficient combined -cycle power 
plants, will be built in the western and central regions of Saudi Arabia over the next few years. 
Siemens Energy´s gas turbines  (HL-class) , in combination with steam turbines and generators , will 
generate approx.  2,000  megawatts of electricity at each site. EPC and contracting partner for 
Siemens Energy is China Energy International  Group.  
 
Karim Amin, Member of the Executive  Board of Siemens Energy and responsible for the  Business 
Area of  Gas Services : "Saudi Arabia is driving forward its vision 2030 to transform the Kingdom into 
a pioneering  economic location . The new gas -fired power plants will provide reliable energy supply 
and contribute to the sustainable and future -oriented  development of the country . Our 
Siemens  Energy  local service h ub in Dammam will make an important contribution in expanding 
and localizing technology and competencies in the Kingdom. ” 
 
The new power plants will provide additional energy for the country's growing population and 
booming economy  and replace parts of Saudi Arabia's existing aging power plant fleet, some of 
which rely on oil as an energy source . The new plants will save up to 60 percent of CO 2 compared 
with oil-fueled power plants . They  will also be compatible with the Kingdoms ’ energy strategy 
which calls for the construction of CO 2 capture and storage facilities in the medium term , to enable 
a carbon -neutral energy supply.  
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 M unich  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
Taiba 2 and Qassim 2 will initially be connected to the grid in simple cycle mode in 2026 and will be 
permanently operated as a combined cycle power plant one year later.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Sabine Sill  
Press Spokesperson Gas Services  
Phone:   +49 (173) 7196783  
E-mail: sabine.sill@siemens -energy.com  
 
Iain Packham  
Press Spokesperson Middle East , Africa  
Phone:   +971 (0) 5499 34561  
E-mail:  iain.packham@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on X at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power pla nts operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers.  
Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An 
estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on techn ologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens 
Energy employs around 9 9,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €31 billion in 
fiscal year 2023. www.siemens -energy.com  
 