Press Info
To achieve this, MVV is relying on a triad of a 
heating transition, an electricity transition, and 
green customer solutions. The heating transition 
is an important lever for MVV's climate positive 
goal. As Germany's second -largest district 
heating supplier -including industrial steam -
MVV has already been working at full speed on 
the heating turnaround for years. Mannheim -based energy company MVV is 
consistently driving forward the energy transition 
of heat supply : With the official commissioning of 
its first river heat pump on the grounds of 
Grosskraftwerk Mannheim AG (GKM), MVV today 
reached another important milestone on the road 
to greener district heating in Mannheim and the 
region. 
With its “Mannheim Model”, the company has 
committed itself to the strategic path of becoming 
climate -neutral by 2040 at the latest and climate 
positive thereafter, which means removing 
greenhouse gases from the atmosphere with its 
operations. The new river heat pump from MVV supplies climate -friendly heat from 
Rhine water to around 3,500 households -One of the largest heat pumps of 
its kind in Europe.MVV commissions its first innovative 
river heat pump in Mannheim  
Mannheim 2023 | MVV Energie AG. Großkraftwerk GKM mit einer Flusswärmepumpe zur 
Energieerzeugung.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains 
general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically 
reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features are binding only 
when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global 
GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own 
purposes could violate the rights of the owners.For the U.S. published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Business area
15375 Memorial Drive, Suite 700
Houston, TX 77079 , USA
For more information, please visit our website: www.siemens -energy.com/xxx
E-Mail: sabine.sill@siemens -energy.comPublished by and copyright © 2023
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Business area
Otto-Hahn -Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
Mannheim  2023 | MVV Energie AG. Großkraftwerk GKM mit einer Flusswärmepumpe zur 
Energieerzeugung.MVV is making district heating 
green step by step
"By 2030, we will generate our district heating in 
Mannheim and the region entirely from climate -
friendly energy sources. At the same time, we are 
continually expanding our district heating grid and 
increasing the density of existing district heating 
areas, i.e. connecting additional households to 
the existing grid. With the commissioning of our 
first river heat pump, we are once again 
demonstrating that the energy turnaround is 
already a reality at MVV," stressed Dr. Georg 
Müller, CEO of MVV Energie AG. The MVV river heat pump was built by Siemens 
Energy in Sweden and delivered to Mannheim by 
truck. "Large heat pumps like the one in 
Mannheim make heat from water or industrial 
waste heat usable for district heating networks as 
well. Powered by electricity from renewable 
sources, this technology can be an important 
lever for the heating transition, especially in urban 
areas," says Vanessa Bauch , Head of 
Decentralized Power Generation at Siemens 
Energy. 
To drive the heating transition, MVV is investing in 
a broad portfolio of renewable generation options: 
In Mannheim, the connection of MVV's waste -to-
energy plant in 2020 and MVV's flow heat pump 
this year will be followed as the next step by the 
commissioning of a sewage sludge treatment 
plant. In 2024, MVV will also connect its biomass 
power plant to the district heating network. In 
addition, there are further green options such as 
deep geothermal energy, additional river heat 
pumps, biomethane plants, electrode boilers or 
the use of further industrial waste heat.Large heat pumps an important 
lever for the heating transition
One of the largest heat pumps 
in Europe
The large -scale heat pump supplied by Siemens 
Energy, which GKM integrated into the 
infrastructure of the large -scale power plant for 
MVV, and operates, will now supply 3,500 
households with climate -friendly heat from Rhine 
water. The new plant saves around 10,000 tons of 
CO2 annually. With a thermal output of 20 
megawatts, the innovative MVV river heat pump 
is currently the largest heat pump integrated into 
a district heating network in Germany and one of 
the largest plants of its kind in Europe. The MVV flow heat pump utilizes the existing 
infrastructure of the GKM, specifically the high -
performance water intake, the water outlet and 
the connection to the district heating network. 