26
II/2024 II/2024 www.ehp-magazine.com www.ehp-magazine.com SPECIALIST TOPIC   RENEWABLE ENERGIES
A River to Keep Thousands  
of Homes Warm
Industrial heat pumps are key to decarbonising heat generation and becoming  
independent of fossil imports. In Mannheim, Germany, a 20 MW-heat pump has  
just been commissioned to take in water from the river Rhine and supply the  
regional district heating network. It’s a sign of things to come.
The project’s size reflects its ambi -
tion: An 18 m long and 5 m tall XL-
heat pump (Figure 1) housed in a 
machine hall on the premises of a 
modern coal-power plant in the city 
of Mann  heim. Commissioned in 
October 2023, it takes water from 
the river Rhine at temperatures as 
low as 3 °C in the winter and up to 
25 °C in the summer. 
Delivering 20 MW of heat in a re -
gion where coal has dominated for 
decades, it will provide around 
3,500 households with carbon neu -
tral heat in Germany’s second 
largest district heating network. 
And, by saving around 10,000 t of CO 2 annually, it will help MVV Ener -
gie, one of Germany’s leading ener -
gy companies, achieve its strategic 
goal of becoming #climatepositive 
by 2035.
Meeting 38% of district 
heating demand
The decarbonisation of heat has 
gained attention in recent years 
from consumers, governments, and 
companies. A key part of the solu -
tion are large-scale heat pumps –
with a capacity of anywhere from 
100 kW to beyond 45 MW – for dis -
trict heating or industrial applica -tion powered by low-emissions 
electricity. Recently, several reports 
and scenarios have shown how 
they could contribute to the green 
transformation of the heating and 
cooling sectors. 
The IEA, for example, released a 
report titled “The Future of Heat 
Pumps” in December 20221), de -
scribing the overall potential of 
large-scale heat pumps to reduce 
CO 2-emissions. The paper claims Heat pump in operation in Mannheim/Germany, producing green district heating  Source: Siemens Energy
1)  https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/as -
sets/4713780d-c0ae-4686-8c9b-
29e782452695/TheFutureofHeatPumps.
pdf
27
II/2024 II/2024 www.ehp-magazine.com www.ehp-magazine.comthe food and chemicals industries 
could cover 30% of their heating 
needs with heat pumps. Another 
report, “Heat Pumps in District 
Heating and Cooling Systems”2) 
modeled the integration of large 
heat pumps connected to district 
heating in Europe. The conclusion 
was that the installed capacity of 
large heat pumps for district heat -
ing could be 95 GW(th) – compared 
to about 2 GW(th) today – by 2050 
and it could meet 38% of the district 
heating demand. That’s why pro -
jects like the Mannheim heat pump 
are so important. 
Large-scale field trials for 
XL-heat pumps
Industrial heat pumps are not a new 
invention. In fact, they have been 
proven for decades. First developed 
in the 1850s, a breakthrough didn’t 
come until the oil crisis in the 1970s. 
Back then, governments were look -
ing for efficient ways to generate heat while minimising the use of 
fossil fuels. That surge in interest 
later subsided with cheaper oil and 
gas, though some niche applica -
tions for large scale heat pumps re -
mained. Siemens Energy, for exam -
ple, installed over 50 industrial heat 
pumps throughout Scandinavia in 
the late 1980s, most of which are 
still operational today. Yet, with low 
fossil fuel prices, these large heat 
pumps remained limited to indus -
trial niche applications. Today, that 
is changing.
The heat pump for district heat -
ing in Mannheim is just one of five 
German large-scale field trials 
(called ‘Reallabore’ in German) for 
large-scale district heat pumps. 
The project is co-financed by the 
German Federal Ministry of Eco -
nomics and Technology. Its goal is 
to evaluate the CO 2 emissions sav -
ings they enable. They use various 
heat sources such as waste heat, 
geothermal or solar energy, or am -
bient air, among others.3)Simple working principle
Heat pumps operate on a relatively 
simple working principle: With a 
certain amount of additional ener -
gy, in most cases electricity, they 
lift the temperature from a low-tem -
perature heat source to a usable 
level for the heat sink or consumer. 
For this, they can use various 
sources such as wastewater, elec -
tricity generation, waste heat of in -
dustrial processes, or of data 
centers for heating and cooling 
purposes. Thus, they provide more 
heat than a direct conversion of 
electric power to heat. This way 
they can also achieve Coefficients 
Figure 1. Main components for the SHP-C600 heat pump installed in Mannheim  Source: Siemens Energy
Condenser
Evapor ator
Flash tankCompressorGearbo xMotor2)  https://heatpumpingtechnologies.org/
publications/heat-pumps-in-district-
heating-and-cooling-systems-final-re -
port/
3)  https://www.energate-messenger.com/
news/210939/ministry-of-econom -
ics-launches-real-laboratory-for-large-
scale-heat-pumps
28
II/2024 II/2024 www.ehp-magazine.com www.ehp-magazine.com SPECIALIST TOPIC   RENEWABLE ENERGIES
of Performance (COP) that are much 
higher than, for example, the effi -
ciency of electrical boilers. As a re -
sult, they require lower operating 
expenditures. And if the electricity 
used is green, all the heat produced 
is also carbon-free.
What about heat pumps for dis -
trict heating? In the European Union 
(EU), there are currently 60 million 
people using district heating, repre -
senting 20% of global production. A 
further 80 million live close to these 
networks4). On the flipside, this 
means large heat pumps only make 
sense in places with a viable heat 
source, electricity, a distribution 
network, and heat consumers close 
by. One great resource could be 
wastewater treatment plants, of 
which 4,000 are close to district 
heating networks within the EU.5) 
Other large markets for district 
heating include Russia and China. 
The potential for change is signifi -
cant: Globally, around 90% of district 
heating is generated by fossil fuels.6)
Stockholm as past and  
future
One location already lives up to this 
potential: Within the neighborhood 
of Hammarby, Stockholm/Sweden, 
are several large-scale heat pumps 
with a total thermal capacity of 
225 MW. It is the world’s largest 
district heating plant, capable of 
heating 80,000 apartments. The 
plant uses five large-scale, low-tem -
perature heat pumps from Siemens 
Energy to extract district heating 
and cooling from treated waste -water. They enable carbon neutral 
district heating combined with 
district cooling, which is useful 
during summer periods with low 
heat demand. Though established 
almost forty years ago, Stockholm 
provides a vision of what’s possible 
in other cities. 
XL-heat pumps for industrial 
use achieving 300 °C with 
steam compression
It’s worth noting that heat from 
district heating plants is not only for 
domestic use. Roughly 40% goes to 
the industrial sector7); though, in 
these cases, higher temperatures 
are often required. There are many 
industries that use heat-intensive 
processes, such as the steel or 
chemical industries, as well as 
glass, pulp and paper, cement facto -
ries, textiles manufacturing, and 
mining. And just as plentiful as the 
industries, are the processes that 
require this heat. To name a few: 
There’s hot air for drying, preheating 
boiler feedwater, steam production, 
direct heating, and chemical reac -
tions that need heat ranging from 
ambient temperatures to 1,000 °C. 
Today, most of this industrial heat 
demand is met by fossil fuels. But 
as of late, large heat pumps are also 
being considered for applications 
with temperatures of up to 150 °C. In 
most use cases, these high-temper -
ature heat pumps should help in -
dustries capture waste heat and 
reuse it to provide hot water or 
steam for process heating. 
A recent report published by the 
German research institute Fraun -hofer Research Institute IEG8) and 
the German thinktank Agora Ener -
giewende even stated that Germany 
could cover all its heating require -
ments up to 200 °C with large heat 
pumps by 2045. And technological -
ly, progress has even been made to 
extend this range up to 300  °C using 
steam compression. Such configu -
rations are now even bid-ready in 
the marketplace.9)
Green electricity and refrig -
erants
To ensure optimal operation of heat 
pumps, two important aspects must 
be considered. Firstly, while heat 
pumps reduce overall fossil fuel 
consumption, they only achieve 
carbon-neutral results when pow -
ered by green electricity. So, where 
possible, that should be the case.
Secondly, the choice of refriger -
ants is key. Today, most heat pumps 
use synthetic refrigerants such as 
Hydrofluoroolefins (HFO). These are 
especially useful for higher temper -
atures, are non-toxic and some, 
while not all, have a very low global 
warming potential. 
Yet, the EU’s Reach (Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorisation and Re-
striction of Chemicals) regulation 
may affect which synthetic sub -
stances can be used in the future; a 
decision is expected by 2025. This 
partly explains why natural, though 
sometimes toxic or flammable, re -
frigerants such as CO 2, ammonia, or 
propane are being used recently, 
especially for lower temperatures. 
But regardless of which refrigerant 
is considered the best choice for an 
application, the basic heat pump 
design has proven highly adaptable, 
9)  Schaefer, J.; Paul, C. : Low-carbon and 
high-efficient Heat Provision by 
High-temperature Heat Pumps with 
Subsequent Steam Compression. In: 
Proceedings of SPE ADIPEC, Abu Dhabi 
– UAE, 31 October-3 November 2022.7)  https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/as -
sets/4713780d-c0ae-4686-8c9b-
29e782452695/TheFutureofHeat -
Pumps.pdf; p. 42.
8)  https://www.ieg.fraunhofer.de/content/
dam/ieg/deutsch/dokumente/veröffen -
tlichungen/Rollout_Grosswaerme -
pumpen_Angora_Fraunhofer%20IEG.
pdf4)  https://www.euractiv.com/section/en -
ergy-environment/opinion/cli -
mate-neutral-buildings-require-effi -
cient-heating-and-cooling-networks/
5)  https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/as -
sets/4713780d-c0ae-4686-8c9b-
29e782452695/TheFutureofHeat -
Pumps.pdf; p. 42
6)  https://www.iea.org/energy-system/
buildings/district-heating
29
II/2024 II/2024 www.ehp-magazine.com www.ehp-magazine.comover decades, to various kinds of 
refrigerants.
Policies, regulations and  
financing
Yet, nothing will happen without 
collective support, meaning long-
term policy, regulatory frameworks 
and, of course, financial incentives 
are crucial to push XL-heat pumps 
forward. For one, governments need 
to commit to achieving carbon-neu -
tral energy generation as spelled 
out in the Paris Agreement, as this 
allows for the implementation of 
new low- or carbon-free technolo -
gies on a wide scale. Most countries 
have done so. 
Also, the regulatory framework 
needs to be in place to accelerate the 
deployment of large heat pumps 
with respect to national climate 
targets. In Europe, for example, 
countries such as Austria, Germany, 
Denmark, and others have passed 
policies requiring the use of renew -
able energy sources for heat genera -
tion.10) As is the case for any decar -
bonisation technology, carbon 
pricing systems are also a necessary 
lever to ensure an attractive busi -
ness case for industrial heat pumps.
A unique opportunity for  
industrial heat pumps
Finally, investment is necessary. 
Germany’s large field trials are a 
good example. In Mannheim alone, 
the Federal Ministry of Economics 
and Technology contributed 
€21 million. Similarly, the German 
government also funded one to the 
world’s first 8 MW-high-tempera -
ture-heat pump by Siemens Energy 
and Vattenfall Wärme in Berlin at 
Potsdamer Platz, using waste heat 
from a cooling plant. 
Up to 2026, the German Federal 
government will make €3 billion 
available for renewable energy us -
ing, among other technologies, large-scale heat pumps for district 
heating.11) This highlights the po -
tential of a joint effort by industry 
and policy makers alike. Globally, 
the IEA estimates that an invest -
ment of $160 billion annually by 
2030 for all types of heat pumps is 
necessary to reach net-zero by 
mid-century, yet this cost should be 
outweighed by savings on fuel.12)
In short, developments in Mann -
heim, Berlin, Stockholm, and other cities, are a sign of things to come. 
And now that the Mannheim XL-
heat pump is operational, MVV, as 
the second-largest district heating 
operator in Germany, unsurprising -
ly, is already working on connecting 
additional households to the exist -
ing grid – and is even considering 
installing more large heat pumps. 
With coal power plants increasingly 
being phased out in Europe and be -
yond, these heat pumps present a 
unique opportunity to keep us 
warm  – all while helping industries 
save money and operate more sus -
tainably.
Henrik Örn  
Head of Heat Pump LT, 
Siemens Energy,  
Finspång/Sweden
henrik.orn@siemens-  
energy.com
www.siemens-energy.
com10)  https://static.agora-energiewende.de/
fileadmin/Projekte/2022/2022-04_DE_
Scaling_up_heat_pumps/2022_Scal -
ing_up_heat_pumps_in_Germany.pdf
11)  https://www.bmwk.de/Redaktion/EN/
Pressemitteilungen/2022/09/20220915-
boost-for-green-district-heating-feder -
al-funding-for-efficient-heat-networks-
bew-begins.html
12)  https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/as -
sets/4713780d-c0ae-4686-8c9b-
29e782452695/TheFutureofHeat -
Pumps.pdf; p. 14.Figure 2. Heat pump compressor skid, ready for shipment from the workshop  
  Source: Siemens Energy
