Marine Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Transforming the maritime sector Full speed ahead for decarbonization and digitalization, for lower emissions, for all types of vessels, for a greener tomorrow Siemens Energy: Powering the maritime industry forward for more than 145 Years As a pioneer, Siemens Energy offers advanced solutions designed to optimize vessel and overall fleet performance while upholding environmental standards. Watch our video Solutions for every vessel With more than a century of experience, Siemens Energy Marine Solutions form the anchor of the strong positions held in the maritime industry. This sector is facing more complex challenges than ever, in particular significantly cutting down greenhouse gas emissions. As a solution provider, Siemens Energy provides answers by delivering advanced electrical equipment, systems, solutions, and services for all types of commercial vessels, naval vessels and submarines. Along with solutions for power, drive, energy management, automation, and digital solutions, Siemens Energy is a reliable partner for owners and operators and shipyards. Powering the maritime industry forward also means setting new courses of innovation. Wherever your ships sail, Siemens Energy is always nearby with a global network of subsidiaries, providing service and after sales support. The portfolio for the maritime industry Siemens Energy Marine Solutions cover a wide span of power, drive , energy management, automation , and digital requirements for all vessel types. To help owners and operators meet ever-changing market and economic challenges, our solutions must be effective, efficient, and reliable, no matter what market and maritime conditions are. This core belief drives us to continuously find and develop innovations to keep your business afloat, prospering and competing successfully and sustainably for decades to come. Automation and control Podded propulsion Maritime Services Power generation and distribution Electric propulsion and drives Sustainable future in the maritime industry Fuel cell and methanol reforming system for clean energy on board The LIFE OCEAN project is the first project which aims to use a carbon-neutral fuel for electric energy production and provides a reference for transitioning towards carbon-neutral mobility in the maritime sector. To read more about the project and the sustainable approach of Siemens Energy click here Success stories on each of the seven seas Largest all-electric car ferry in the world The all-electric ferry “Bastø Electric” was on delivery  the largest in the world with a one of a kind charging effect. Large battery packs and lightning-fast charging systems mean cuts in local emissions, less noise and more reliable operations. Bastø Fosen’s electrification of their fleet will reduce its CO2 emissions by 75% in 2022 – reducing their diesel consumption with six million liters per year. Watch the video Visit the web page Saga Cruises: Ultramodern luxury watercraft In 2019 and then again in 2020, UK-based Saga Cruises made company history by taking delivery of their first-ever brand-new cruise ships, built in Germany’s Meyer Werft Papenburg shipyard. These ultramodern luxury watercrafts are equipped with superior maneuverability and 360-degree precise steering so the crew can stay agile and reliably keep course. Thanks to the total MV Power & Drive solution with SISHIP SiPOD-M Saga will safely and solidly transport cruisers for decades to come. Watch the video World's first electrical car and passenger ferry ”Ampere” is the world's first electrical car and passenger ferry powered by batteries – operated by Norwegian ship owner Norled. Built in conjunction with shipbuilder Fjellstrand, Siemens Energy installed the complete electric propulsion system and put up charging stations with lithium-ion batteries which are charged from hydro power. Due to the change to battery, the ship owner Norled reduces the cost of fuel by up to 60%. Watch the video Contact us for more information about our marine portfolio If you want to learn more about our offering for the marine sectors, don’t hesitate to contact us. Our marine experts will gladly answer all your questions and provide you with comprehensive information. Contact us Latest stories October 27, 2022 6 min read If the sea could talk to us, what would it say? August 28, 2022 4 min read Electric propulsion lets Norway ferry passengers hear the sounds of the fjords August 4, 2022 4 min read One giant leap for e-Methanol December 15, 2021 5 min read Norway’s “ferrytale” on green waves See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025