siemens -energy.comDecarbonization
Transitioning to a net zero future with 
Omnivise Performance
Climate change is the most urgent problem we face   
on planet Earth, yet the global demand for energy and  
electricity increases year after year. Navigating this  
fundamental challenge drives our quest to discover more  
sustainable solutions to meet net zero goals. With a proven  
history of turning ideas into reality, Siemens Energy is  
dedicated to helping our customers transition to a more  
sustainable world. Despite the rapid build -out of carbon -
free and carbon -neutral power generation technologies 
and infrastructure, we cannot neglect the legacy fossil fuel  
assets that supply energy to the world today —they  
continue to play a crucial role in guaranteeing our energy  
supply while renewable sources are added to the mix and  
energy storage technologies evolve.  
Our forward -leaning technologies and approaches help 
bridge the gap between fossil and carbon -neutral sources  
of power generation. 
Omnivise Performance Portfolio . Realizing that existing  
fossil power plants were not built to accommodate the  
flexibility needs of modern -day power grids, Siemens  
Energy developed Omnivise Performance solutions. The 
Omnivise Performance portfolio helps you advance  
toward your country’s net zero goals by increasing  
efficiency and reducing emissions. Even without full 
access to renewables, traditional plants and energy  
suppliers can take steps today to reduce emissions and  
decrease fuel use, all while increasing energy output to  
meet consumer demands. We see our energy customers  
and partners falling in one of three steps toward a net zero 
future: 1) Fossil -based power generation assets that can 
reduce emissions and decrease fuel use with performance  
solutions, but have not done so yet, Preface
Figure 1 Steps you can take towards a net zero future.Fossil fuel -based generation  
of power and steamEmission reduction,
avoidance and neutralityNet zero energy systems
Current statusPathways to net zero with customized 
Performance solutions to decrease  
emissions and maximize performanceTarget scenarios
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 2Transitioning to a net zero future with Omnivise Performance
(2) Emissions -reduced,  fossil -based power generation 
assets that have decreased  emissions through 
performance solutions, and (3) Net zero energy systems 
that prioritize renewables and retain access  to 
emissions -reduced and performance -maximized fossil -
based power generation when renewables are 
unavailable.  Our solutions target the center and right of 
the net zero energy  system journey, enabling traditional 
power plants to take  steps now toward carbon 
neutrality. 
The Omnivise Performance Portfolio helps reduce 
emissions of legacy fossil burning assets through a broad 
range of digital products, optimization solutions, and 
managed  services. But Omnivise Performance also 
moves beyond  these areas to address the increasingly 
complex market for  energy management/dispatch 
planning and energy trading  for hybrid fleets. 
Omnivise Performance leverages new energy 
management  hardware and software to lower the 
carbon footprint of  your fleet while safeguarding 
profitability. By combining years of operational data from 
a global fleet of power  plants with high -fidelity digital 
twins, we were able to  develop detailed simulations that 
increase plant efficiency  and flexibility under a large 
array of operational conditions. 
Today, Omnivise Performance solutions are proven in 
real world applications and continue to help our 
customers  efficiently meet their energy needs every 
single day as they begin their journey to support a net 
zero future. 
Efficient generation means less carbon emissions.
Our Omnivise Performance solutions have been deployed to more than 400 projects worldwide, involving 4,500 control systems, 
7,000 gas turbines, and 1,000 steam turbines. No matter your plant’s type, complexity or purpose, we have the know -how to help 
you achieve your decarbonization objectives. Our solutions span from reducing fuel use and CO2 emissions at start -up to full -scale 
energy system management to optimize energy dispatch. These solutions enable more flexible operations that would otherwise be 
restricted to standard load requirements (see Figure 2). This paper will overview ways you can cut emissions, save costs and reach 
desired performance across energy operations .
Reduced emissions during Startup.
Startup & Stop Performance solutionsLow Loss Start addresses these challenges in a way that 
reduces fuel consumption upon startup and thereby 
reduces emissions –ideal for plants also looking to reduce 
fuel consumption costs.
This is a turnkey solutions that incorporate a dynamic 
digital twin, adaptive open -and closed -loop controls, as 
well as server, software, and predictive controls  
to realize optimal set points for main control loops. 
These optimizations will improve your plant’s efficiency 
while  reducing fuel consumption and emissions .Figure 2 Omnivise Performance solutions can cut emissions for your fleet and optimize performance in many waysTransitioning to a net zero future with Omnivise Performance
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 3and  electricity prices, design limits, and current plant 
conditions (e.g., cold/warm or hot start.) 
Slow and non -linear control loops like steam
temperature control make the automation of the  
optimal startup a complex control problem, one that  
often requires manual operator interventions.for both combined -cycle and steam power 
plants can help reduce emissions. 
Starting up a power plant  optimally is a 
challenging task, involving the  
consideration of various factors like fuel 

Fortunately, Siemens Energy has solutions that help your 
equipment run at a highly efficient state while 
minimizing the carbon output.
Our use of equipment -specific, high -fidelity digital twins 
can model your power plant’s performance at all 
operating loads while infusing our fleet engineering and 
operating experience into your plant’s maintenance 
plan. This helps to ensure your plant continues to 
operate at a highly efficient state month after month.
GT Auto Tuner ( Stability and Emissions Module) 
autonomously introduces refinements to fuel 
distribution and exhaust temperature control to optimize 
and reduce emissions (NOx) and combustion dynamics 
in both part -load and base -load conditions.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 4Transitioning to a net zero future with Omnivise Performance
Temperature Optimizer uses a dynamic digital twin to 
model the complex and non -linear interactions between  
gas turbines, heat recovery steam generators (HRSGs), 
and  duct burners. By doing so, we better control steam 
temperature fluctuations. The result is the plant can 
increase steam temperature set points and improve 
overall efficiency.
Performance Monitoring is a digital application and a 
managed service that allows you to identify and 
understand all the areas that contribute to efficiency 
loss. We use high -fidelity digital twins combined with an 
intelligent rule base that continuously monitors your 
equipment’s thermal performance. If a loss in 
performance efficiency  is identified, a team of 
experienced performance  engineers from Siemens 
Energy will evaluate. The team will deliver quantified 
evidence of the loss as well as a  plan for how to address 
it. Siemens Energy will even follow up after the 
proposed maintenance is complete so you can see the 
performance improvements firsthand.GT Auto Tuner (Performance Module ) helps to 
compensate for power losses due to degradation of the gas 
turbine to maintain base load power. In addition, the 
accuracy of the engine control is increased, which has a 
positive effect on the service life of the turbine. In the case 
of a combined cycle configuration, the increased thermal 
energy of the exhaust gas is used to generate more steam in 
the boiler, thereby increasing the output of the steam cycle.Our solutions include Primary Frequency Control  (PFC), 
Secondary Frequency Control (SFC) and  Automatic 
Generation Control (AGC) to help ensure stability for grids 
with significant wind and solar generation. At the same 
time, our solutions can also help avoid  shutdowns during 
periods of low power demand by  reducing your plant’s 
minimum power output limit, and therefore reducing 
emissions.Demand Response solutions for 
combined cycle and steam power plants can 
improve power output and provide flexibility 
and grid  support to stabilize carbon -free, 
variable generating assets in your hybrid fleet.
Maximum Load Plus is both an efficiency and megawatt 
output improvement for plants that already employ the grid 
services described above.
It works by incorporating the steam cycle into the frequency 
response. The benefit is that combined cycle plants can run 
their gas turbines at higher load while still delivering the 
frequency reserve. This enables the gas turbines to run more 
efficiently and produces more heat for the steam cycle.Minimum Load Reduction improves open -and closed -
loop controls to consume less energy and allow plants to 
continue operating at times of depressed electricity prices  
while keeping the impact on efficiency as low as possible. 
For one customer whose plant meets the energy needs of  
2.5 million people per day, the minimum load reduction  
solution reduced fuel consumption by 30% during low  
demand times while increasing dispatch control capability  
four times.
Continuous improvement  
means staying efficient.
Emissions and Efficiency it’s  
inevitable that power generation 
equipment will degrade with use and grow 
less efficient. 
Your equipment operates under extreme mechanical and 
thermal stress, which –combined with environmental 
factors –will eventually cause it to decline in power output. 
Over time, this also results in higher carbon release per 
megawatt generated.The biggest challenge facing power producers in the coming 
years will be how to determine the right dispatch plan, one 
that allows you to maximize your revenues while minimizing 
your carbon output. 
Today’s producers have a variety of power generation 
equipment available to dispatch. These bring different 
variables into play affecting the best time to dispatch. Economic dispatching means 
artfully integrating fossil assets 
with new carbon -free MWh  
production.
Power grids now ask power producers to submit bids for as 
little as 5 -minute intervals, and those intervals are expected 
to get even smaller in the future. Such a trading 
environment demands advanced AI simulation scenarios 
with virtual power plants that connect to integrated hybrid 
controllers that help determine the most economical 
dispatch decisions. With the help of AI, you can set an 
objective function for optimizing revenue within a target 
carbon output goal. Siemens Energy offers these solutions as 
part of our Energy Management suite so you can integrate 
new carbon -free power generating assets into your existing 
fleet.Create the foundation for 
decarbonization.
The choices we make today will have a profound impact on 
the world’s climate. Although it’s important to act with 
urgency, we recognize that the change to a net zero world 
will not happen in the blink of an eye, but we can take the 
first steps to getting there. The Omnivise Performance 
portfolio will help decrease the carbon output of your fleet 
through reduced emissions, less auxiliary power 
consumption, and lower fuel consumption from existing 
fossil assets. Additionally, our solutions enable the creation 
of an integrated economic dispatch plan for your entire 
fleet. 
With Siemens Energy at your side, you can implement 
solutions today to create the foundation for a deeply 
decarbonized world.
Contact your Siemens Energy sales representative to 
schedule a presentation or visit our website
Authors
Nico Lehmann, Darren McGuire, Katie Hanley 
Published by
Siemens Energy, Inc. 
4400 N Alafaya Trail 
Orlando, Florida 32826
For more information, please contact  
sppa -p3000.energy@siemens -energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo 
modification in the course of further development of the products. The 
requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly 
agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be 
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could 
violate the rights of the owners.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 5Transitioning to a net zero future with Omnivise Performance
Energy Management is a suite of solutions 
that enables you to optimize the dispatch of your 
hybrid fleet of power generation equipment 
towards a particular goal, such as maximizing your 
carbon -free generation. 
Recent simulation studies for one of our clients show a 
potential reduction of up to 98.4 ktons per year of CO2 in a 
desalinization plant. In another plant, we reduced fuel use 
and cost by .33%, resulting in CO2 reduction and cost savings 
of $4 million per year. These solutions also facilitate 
forecasting and  ultimately help you manage your energy 
trading. In essence,  they offer a one -stop shop for virtual 
energy planning and  dispatch, a key to success in the 
complex energy markets of  the future.  
