 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 Page  1 of 3  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
 
 Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Dubai , November  23, 2020  
Siemens Energy to upgrade and 
expand services at Jebel Ali L2 power  
and water  station in Dubai  
• Integrated 20-year long -term service  agreement  includes intelligent 
gas turbine controller, jointly developed by DEWA and Siemens Energy  
• Upgrade to the latest SPPA -T3000  power plant  control system  
• Additional 33 BOX upgrades for gas turbines and generator services 
added  
 
A new package of enhanced energy services from Siemens Energy will 
supply Dubai Electricity and Water Authority’s (DEWA) Jebel Ali L2 power  
and water  station with the latest advancem ents in power plant service , 
maintenance , and controls . Under terms of the new  long -term service 
agreement , Siemens Energy  will supply an intelligent controller for each 
of the  four SGT5 -4000F gas turbines,  the latest SPPA -T3000 control 
system,  services fo r generators , as well as  added upgrades  for outage 
reduction and operational flexibility.  
 
The intelligent controller was co -developed by DEWA and Siemens Energy  
in 2019 and was the world’s first thermodynamic Digital Twin Gas 
Turbine (GT) Intelligent Controller . The controller  uses Artificial 
Intelligence  (AI) and Machine  Learning  to systematically give power plant 
operators a complete and continuous overview and scenario -based 
assessment of power plant operations .  
 
Developed and manufactu red by Siemens Energy,  the upgraded SPPA -
T3000 control system features online patch update capabilities which 
enables continuous , safe  plant operations during the update as it doesn’t 
require system shutdown.  By having all equipment running on one Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Amy Pempel  
Phone:  
+1 407 -408-1932  
E-mail:  
amy.pempel@siemens.com  
 
 
 
Press release  
 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 Page  2 of 3  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
 Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  control system,  it also enhances planning for maintenance services and 
management of spare parts.  
 
Upgrades for the SGT5 -4000F gas turbines  will enable  interval extension 
between outages  providing increased operational flexibility , allowing for 
a higher number of starts and reduction of outages by app roximately 25 
percent . 
 
“DEWA is consolidating its leading position, both nationally and globally, 
by providing electricity and water services to the highest international 
standards of reliability, efficiency, availability and safety,” said Nasser 
Lootah, Executive Vice President  of Generation at DEWA. “Our strategic 
partnership with Siemens dates back over 30 years. Siemens Energy’s 
technologies contribute to around  53% of DEWA’s total generation 
capacity, enough power for more than 2.5 million residents in Dubai.”  
 
Karim Amin, E xecutive Vice President of Siemens Energy, Generation  
Division, said, “This new  agreement underscores the longstanding 
relationship we have with DEWA and the successes we’ve achieved 
together in bringing our advanced  technologies and services to DEWA’s 
water and power facilities.  We look forward to continuing this 
collaboration for many years to come.”   
 
 
Pictured: Siemens SGT5 -4000F  gas turbine  
 

Press release  
 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 Page  3 of 3  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
 Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  This press release and a press picture are  available a t 
https://bit.ly/3 kEEa2r  
For further information on Siemens Energy’s intelligent controller , please 
see https://bit.ly/3loWbCt  
For further information on the SPPA -T3000, please visit 
https://bit.ly/sppa -t3000  
For further information on Siemens Energy , please see  
www.siemens -energy.com  
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The 
company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for  the future, thus 
supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, 
solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – 
from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio i ncludes conventional 
and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants 
operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent 
of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake i n the listed company 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader 
for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is 
based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy emplo ys more than 90,000 
people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 
billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 