FlexAssist  
with extended Automatic 
Generation Control (AGC)
Unit Modular Coordinator
siemens-energy.com
Larger AGC capacity range  
for higher performance
Siemens Energy Unit Modular Coordinator is a series of  
standard supervisory automation modules that govern the 
plant’s control system. As a part of extending the AGC range,  
Siemens Energy have standardized a new controls philosophy 
which will integrate and add the auxiliary load from the Duct 
Burners in the AGC scheme. This automation solution will 
enhance the timing of the Duct Burners Startup sequence and 
govern the plant’s auxiliary load needs by equally distributing 
a flow setpoint to the unlaying flow controller. 
This in part, is done by varying the duct burner load to keep 
the combustion turbine‘s away from their upper and lower 
limits. The AGC range consists of the CT load range for AGC, 
plus a major portion of the duct burner operating range. The 
role of the CT is to maintain fast and immediate response to 
the dispatched  
load demand throughout the AGC range. 
This approach will reduce manual operator action, ensure 
startup consistency and reduce operator loading. As dispatch 
and market demands have changed, Siemens Energy are 
seeing that the Duct Burners are being utilized to maintain 
the CTs operating point at a load level to fulfill the AGC across  
the complete range. Improvements
• Increased potential for higher ancillary services  
(AGC) revenue.
• Larger AGC Capacity range
• Higher performance factor potential despite relatively  
slow duct burner response and steam turbine delays.
• The use of the CTs for fast and immediate response  
are intended to overcome steam turbine delays, resulting 
in an improved performance factor. 
Technical Benefits
• Potential AGC ancillary services enhancement.  
Approximately $15k per year per additional  
mega watt AGC capacity.
• Potential performance factor improvements  
from 60% range to 100% range.
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 1
Published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.,  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, Florida 32826
For more information, please visit our website: siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2022
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo 
modification in the course of further development of the products.  
The requested performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations 
may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH  
& Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own 
purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 2Siemens Energy l  