Omnivise  
Diagnostics
Early failure notifications  
your experts can trust Proven by our experts, ready for yours
siemens -energy.com/omnivise -asset -management
Page 2Omnivise Diagnostics
Omnivise Diagnostics
Omnivise Diagnostics gives you the solution you’ve 
always needed, ready to use now. Do you want to reduce unplanned 
outages and serious equipment failures?
Do your experts need access to better,  
earlier actionable insights?Omnivise Diagnostics transforms data into insights, unlocking its hidden value and enabling early 
fault detection by your expert teams.
Increased Availability Using Real -time insights on asset condition to maximize uptime and eliminate 
unplanned outages. Increased Reliability By making risks transparent and connecting criticality  
with failure effect information. Lower operating costs Through targeted, predictive maintenance, 
delivering savings from lower repair and replacement costs. Increased Efficiency Giving your 
diagnostic experts an asset -centric view and supporting them with guided case resolution, leading  
to deeper, fuller asset coverage. 
Up to 98%
asset availability *Failures detected  
up to
6 months
early, 
9 days early 
on average *Findings
> 80%
accurate *Do you want to understand your 
asset risks more clearly?
* Based on actual case study; individual results may vary.

Page 3Omnivise Diagnostics
Omnivise Diagnostics integrates different data sources and monitoring functions to provide integrated, synchronized views  
of asset condition for local and centralized diagnostic teams. The solution draws your experts’ attention to critical cases f irst.  
An integrated diagnostic workflow then gives them the guidance they need for fast and effective case resolution.Reliable synchronized information  
and guided case resolution
Collect
Diagnosticians gain access to process data from Distributed 
Control System (DCS), manual readings and vibration data  
in one central location. Sensor calculation capability compensates 
for any missing data from unavailable sensors. 
Monitor
Automatic monitoring functions, such as Diagnostic Rules, 
Anomaly Detection, Image Analytics and Vibration Diagnostics,  
are integrated to provide a synchronized view on the asset. 
Inform
Omnivise Diagnostics allows diagnosticians to efficiently prioritize 
and manage their assigned assets, indicating relevant events and 
permitting fast intervention, backed by smart prioritization based 
on asset criticality and failure severity. 
Analyze
Open alerts are summarized in an asset -centric overview ,con-
textualized with most probable known failure modes. Diagnosti -
cians receive both advanced trend analysis and insights to events 
in Operations and Maintenance. Customers can also access on -
demand support from Siemens Energy specialists via the Power 
Diagnostic Center. 
Act
Based on an identified failure, the user can hand over pre -defined 
work -requests to Operations and Maintenance.Asset Template Library and EditorRequests for 
implementationRequests for 
investigation
Ofﬂine real time 
data feedRequests 
for action
Online real time 
data feedMaintenance 
OperationsReliability 
Templates/ 
ModelsDiagnostics
Collect Monitor Inform Analyze ActMonitoring MethodsIndicators
Failure Mode and Effect AnalysisFailure Mode and Effect Analysis
Statistical Methods
Vibration Analysis
Deep LearningFailure Mode and Effect AnalysisFailure Mode and Effect Analysis
Page 4Omnivise Diagnostics
1.Asset centric
Integrated asset view aggregates all information from every 
relevant monitoring function: process data from DCS,  
manual readings and vibration data, with advanced pattern 
recognition, image recognition and other forms of machine 
learning. It delivers a single, integrated and synchronized  
view of the assets and avoids multiple tool -specific views.2. User and workflow -centric
Gives diagnosticians end -to-end digital workflow support, 
from collection to action, including efficient collaboration 
across roles with guided handover -workflows, such as from 
Diagnostics to Maintenance. Provides experts with guided 
case resolution, delivering all information needed to 
conclude cases fast and effectively, including Assigned 
Failure Modes and Effects (FMEA), criticality, asset history, 
and other factors.3. Siemens Energy knowledge integration
Provides codified knowledge via comprehensive asset templates 
(incl. FMEA and indicators). Use of the support button gives 
fast, direct access to the Siemens Energy expert network for 
know -how, experience and consulting help.How Siemens Energy makes the difference
Page 5Omnivise Diagnostics
Omnivise Asset Management Suite
Reliability Diagnostics Maintenance OperationsRemote Operator 
Rounds & InspectionsAsset Performance 
ManagementFull Plant 
MonitoringRemote Operations 
& Autonomous Plant
Shared Services
User Management Asset Data Management Data Management Content Libraries
Customer DataModular software suite, built and used by Siemens Energy experts. Its four modular applications cover all power generation co re 
processes and domains, supporting both local and remote teams. Built on a single platform, so users can draw on the same data
and insights. Seamless workflows between applications enable cross -role collaboration, while supporting broader use cases, such 
as Remote Operator Rounds & Inspections, Asset Performance Management, Full Plant Monitoring, or Remote Operations up to 
Autonomous Plant. How Omnivise Asset Management 
adds value:
Focus on roles 
Tailored solutions precision -engineered for specific 
roles, such as Diagnosticians, Reliability Engineers, 
Maintenance Managers and Engineers, Operations 
Managers, Operators and Shift Supervisors.
Workflow -centric
Both role -specific workflows and cross -role collabo -
ration, always based on a single source of the truth.
Latest methods and technologies
Continuously evolves to include the most advanced 
methods, including Predictive Maintenance based on 
state -of-the-art Analytics and most current concepts 
of Reliability Centered Maintenance.
One platform, highly modular 
Single platform, based on micro -services. The modular 
structure enables customers to select exactly th eele-
ments they require, gradually expanding to reflect 
emerging goals and stages on their digital journey. 
Asset -agnostic
The same outstanding results for every kind of asset, 
independent of vendor (Siemens Energy and non -
Siemens Energy).
Proven by our experts, ready for yours
Built by engineers who use the same tools every day. 
Integrates Siemens Energy operator and engineer 
knowledge in a comprehensive, constantly updated 
Asset Template Library.
©Siemens Energy 2024
Subject tochanges and errors. The information given inthis document only contains 
general descriptions and/orperformance features which may notalways specifically reflect 
those described, orwhich may undergo modification inthecourse offurther development 
oftheproducts. The requested performance features arebinding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon intheconcluded contract.
Allproduct designations trademarks orproducts ofSiemens Energy Global GmbH &Co.KG 
orother companies whose usebythird parties fortheir own purposes could violate the 
rights oftheowners.
Siemens Energy isatrademark licensed bySiemens AG.
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Siemenspromenade 9, 
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens -energy.com/omnivise -asset -management
Visit our website
