Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head : Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 M unich 
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG .  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin, September  27, 2022  
Siemens Energy supplies control system for 
offshore wind farm  
• “Brain ” for 900 -megawatt EnBW He Dreiht wind farm in the North Sea  
• Provision of control technology, central IT network, cybersecurity solutions, and long -term service  
• Contributes  to carbon neutrality in the power supply  
 
Siemens Energy is supplying its control system to an offshore wind farm for the first time. The system  which 
has already been established in conventional power plants , will be the “brain ” of the 900 -megawatt EnBW 
He Dreiht wind farm  being built approximately 90 kilometers northwest of the German North Sea coast off 
the island of Borkum. Along with the control technology for switchgear and secondary systems,  Siemens 
Energy is supplying the central IT network, including cybersecurity solutions, and has also signed a long -
term service agreement with EnBW.  
 
The cybersecurity solution will ensure that the plant meets the legal requirements for critical infrastru cture. 
Due to its size, the He Dreiht offshore wind farm is subject to special guidelines from the Bundesamt für 
Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik ( German Federal Office for Information Security ).  
 
“Offshore wind farms are a key component of the future climate -neutral energy mix, ” says Tim Holt, 
Member of the Siemens Energy Managing Board . “As the facility ’s capacity continu es to grow, so do the 
monitoring, control, and security requirements. We ’re please d to have contributed  to this project with our 
proven technology. ” 
 
“We have an experienced partner for control systems in Siemens Energy, and we welcome them on board 
the project for our first unsubsidized  offshore wind farm, ” says Hartwig Schnöckel, Project Manager for 
Offshore Wind at EnBW. “A key component of EnBW ’s strategy is to expand renewable energy. It will help 
ensure that at least half our generation portfolio is made up of renewables by the end of 2025 , and it will 
pave the way to making the company climate  neutral by 2035. ” 
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head : Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 M unich 
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG .  Page  2 of 3 
 The offsho re wind farm is expected to begin operation in 2025. Siemens Energy received an order back in 
August 2020  from the grid operator TenneT  to supply the high -voltage direct -current transmission 
technology. This system ensures the low -loss transmission of powe r to shore.  
 
M o r e   i n f o r m a t i o n   f o r   t h e   t r a d e   m e d i a 
 
As the wind farm expands globally and increases in size, so does the demand for more and more powerful 
management and control technology. Siemens Energy ’s Omnivise T3000 control system has proved 
successful for the past 17 years in thousands of conventional power plants around  the world.  
 
The Omnivise T3000 SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) system is a higher -level control 
system that integra tes the automation of switchgear and many secondary systems and also establishes the 
interface to the wind farm controller. This integrated solution for the wind farm enables EnBW to respond 
quickly to changes in power demand so that the facility can produ ce electricity flexibly. Omnivise T3000 is 
certified under the IEC 62443 cybersecurity standard, one of the leading standards for IT security . It also 
includes the IT infrastructure for connecting the secondary systems according to the German BSI Kritis 
regulation.  
 
To guarantee reliable operation under all environmental conditions as well as conformity with maritime 
electrical engineering standards, Siemens Energy will use components that meet the special requirements 
of the offshore sector.  
 
During the w ind farm ’s minimum operating period of 25 years, Siemens Energy will support the operator 
EnBW with automation components, software solutions, and cybersecurity. The corresponding service 
activities will ensure that the control system continues to operate smoothly over the long term.  
 
The Omnivise T3000 system ’s flexibility and versatility allow it to be used for conventional and renewable 
power generation as well as in hybrid plants, which combine renewable energy with electrolysis, hydrogen 
storage, and hydrogen applications. It’s also easy to integrate  other digital applications  like those used for 
direct power marketing and predictive maintenance and solutions for optimizing operation.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Sabine Sill  
Phone:  +49 173 7196783  
Email:  sabine.sill@siemens -energy.com  
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head : Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 M unich 
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG .  Page  3 of 3 
  
This press release and a press photo are available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
For further information on this topic, visit www.siemens -energy.com/omnivise -t300 0-offshore  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world ’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and  partners on 
energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions  
and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The 
portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated  
with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A 
major ity stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for 
renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. 
Siemens E nergy employs around 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €28.5 billion in 
fiscal year 2021. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 