 
© Sustainalytics 2022    
 
Second -Party Opinion  
Siemens Energy Green Bond 
Framework   
Evaluation Summary  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework  is 
credible and impactful and aligns with  the four core components of the Green Bond 
Principles 2021 . This assessment is based on the following:  
  Siemens Energy will use the proceeds to 
refinance the acquisition of its subsidiary Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy  or the existing debt of Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy. The eligible cat egor y for the use of proceeds , 
Renewable Energy , is aligned with those recognized by the Green 
Bond Pri nciples.  Sustainalytics considers that  investments  in the 
eligible category  is expected to lead to positive environmental impact 
and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals , specifically 
SDGs 7 and 9 .  
  Siemens Energy intends to 
use the net proceeds from the green bond issuance under the 
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework exclusively to refinance the 
acquisition  of SGRE or the existing debt of SGRE. Siemens Energy  
adheres to its ESG due diligence process to identify and manage 
potential environmental and social risks associated with the eligible 
investments. Sustainalytics  considers the risk management systems 
to be adequate and the project selection process to be in line with 
market expectations.  
  Siemens Energy ’s Treasury and 
Corporate Finance team  will manage net proceeds from the issuance  
under the Framework on a portfolio basis , and proceeds will be 
tracked using internal  systems . Siemens E nergy  intends to allocate 
net proceeds within 24 months of issuance. Pending full allocation, 
unallocated proceeds will be managed in accordance with Siemens 
Energy’s treasury policy and may be invested in cash, cash 
equivalents or overnight bank deposits on a temporary basis . This is 
in line with marke t expectations . 
  Siemens Energy  intends to report on the allocation and 
impact of proceeds on its website within one year of issuance and on 
an annual basis until full allocation . Allocation reporting will include 
the share of financing versus refinancing and the amount of 
unallocated proceeds.  In addition, Siemens Energy is committed to 
reporting on relevant impact metrics. Sustainalytics views  Siemens 
Energy’s allocation and impact reporting commitments  as aligned  
with  market expectations . 
 
  
Evaluation Date January  18, 2023 
Issuer Locatio n Munich , Germany  
 
Report Sections   
 
Introduction  ................................ .............  2 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion  ...........................  3 
Appendix  ................................ .................  9 
 
For inquir ies, contact the Sustainable 
Finance Solutions p roject team : 
Nadia Djinnit (Amsterdam)  
Project Manager  
Nadia.Djinnit@morningstar.com  
Ananth Eragam (Amsterdam)  
Project Support  
Sumaiya  Waheed  (Mumbai)  
Project Support  
Kibii Sisulu (London)  
Client Relations  
susfinance.emea@sustainalytics.com  
(+44) 20 3880 0193   
 
  

Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 2 
Introduction  
Siemens Energy  (the “Company”)  is an energy technology company  that offer s products, solutions and 
services  for power generation , transmission  and storage , as well as  industrial applications and hydrogen 
production  for the conventional and renewable energy sectors . The Company also provides technical 
consultancy, and operation and maintenance services.  Siemens Energy is  organized into the following 
business areas: i) Gas Services; ii) Grid Technologies; and iii) Transformation of Industry .1 Furthermore,  the 
Company curren tly owns a 67% majority stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (“ SGRE ”) and is in the 
process of a cquiring the remaining 33% of SGRE’s shares , delist and fully integrate SGRE  into its business . 
SGRE  specializes  in the design, development, manufacture, supply and installation of products and services 
for the renewable energy sector with a focus on wind turbines.  Siemens Energy operates in more than 90 
countries , employing approximately  92,000 personnel as of 202 2. The Company was  formed in 2019  following 
the spin -off of Siemens AG’s G as and Power division and is headquartered in Munich , Germany.  
Siemens Energy  has developed the Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework  (the “ Framework ”), under which 
it intends to issue a green bond and use the proceeds to refinance, in whole or in part, existing  and future 
projects that that are expected to facilitate the clean energy transition. The Framework defines eligibility 
criteria in one area:  
1. Renewable Energy  
Siemens Energy  engaged Sustainalytics to review the  Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework , dated 
January  2023, and provide a Second -Party Opinion on the Framework ’s environmental credentials and its 
alignment  with the Green Bond Principles 2021  (GBP) .2 The Framework has been published in a separate 
document .3  
Scope of work and limitations of Sustainalytics ’ Second -Party Opinion  
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion reflects Sustainalytics ’ independent4 opinion on the alignment of the 
reviewed Framework with current market standards and the extent to which the eligible project categories are 
credible and impactful.  
As part of the Second -Party Opinion, Sustainalytics assessed the following:  
• The Framework’ s alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021 , as administered by ICMA ; 
• The credibility and anticipated positive impacts of the use of proceeds ; and 
• The alignment of the issuer ’s sustainability strategy and performance and sustainability risk 
management in relation to the use of proceeds . 
For the use of proceeds assessment, Sustainalytics relied on its internal taxonomy, version 1.12 , which is 
informed by market practice and Sustainalytics ’ expertise as an ESG research provider.  
As part of this engagement , Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Siemens Energy ’s 
management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of 
proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Fra mework. Siemens Energy  
representatives have confirmed (1) they understand it is the sole responsibility of Siemens Energy  to ensure 
that the information provided is complete, accurate or up to date; (2) that they have provided Sustainalytics 
with all relev ant information and (3) that any provided material information has been duly disclosed in a timely 
manner. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non -public information.  
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion of the Framework an d should be read in conjunction with that 
Framework.  
Any update of the present Second -Party Opinion will be conducted according to the agreed engagement 
conditions between Sustainalytics and Siemens Energy . 
 
1 The Transformation of Industry business area comprises four independently managed business operations.  
2 The Green Bond Principles are administered  by the International Capital Market Association and are available at https://www.icmagroup.org/green -
social -and-sustainability -bonds/green -bond -principles -gbp/ . 
3 The Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework  is available on Siemens Energy ’s website at: https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/company/investor -relations/publications -ad-hoc.html  
4 When operating multiple lines of business that serve a variety of client types, objective research is a cornerstone of Sustai nalytics and ensuring analyst 
independence is paramount to producing objective, actionable research. Sustainalytics has the refore put in place a robust conflict management 
framework that specifically addresses the need for analyst independence, consistency of process, structural separation of com mercial and research (and 
engagement) teams, data protection and systems separatio n. Last but not the least, analyst compensation is not directly tied to specific commercial 
outcomes. One of Sustainalytics’ hallmarks is integrity, another is transparency.  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 3 
Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion, while reflecting on the alignment of the Framework with market 
standards, is no guarantee of alignment nor warrants any alignment with future versions of relevant market 
standards. Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ Second -Party Opinion addresses the anticipated impacts of eligible 
projects expected to be financed with bond proceeds but does not measure the actual impact. The 
measurement and reporting of the impact achieved through projects financed under the Framework is the  
responsibility of the Framework owner. Upon twenty -four (24) months following the evaluation date set stated 
herein, Siemens Energy  is encouraged to update the Framework, if necessary, and seek an update to the 
Second -Party Opinion to ensure ongoing align ment of the Framework with market standards and 
expectations.  
In addition, the Second -Party Opinion opines on the potential  allocation of proceeds but does not guarantee 
the reali zed allocation of the bond proceeds towards eligible activities.  
No informati on provided by Sustainalytics under the present Second -Party Opinion shall be considered as 
being a statement, representation, warrant or argument , either in favour or against, the truthfulness, reliability 
or completeness of any facts or statements and re lated surrounding circumstances that Siemens Energy  has 
made available to Sustainalytics for the purpose of this Second -Party Opinion . 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion  
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework  
Sustainalytics is o f the opinion that the Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework  is credible and impactful and 
aligns  with the four core components  of the GBP . Sustainalytics highlights the following elements of the 
Framework:  
• Use of Proceeds:  
- Siemens Energy intends to raise a green bond under the Framework and may use the proceeds 
to refinance the acquisition of SGRE  or the existing debt of SGRE .  
- The eligible category , Renewable Energ y, is aligned with those recognized by the GBP.  
- Sustainalytics notes that the proceeds from the issuance under the Framework may be used to 
refinance general corporate purpose debt of SGRE which may have financed o pex. The 
Framework  has not defined a look -back period for its refinancing activities.  Sust ainalytics 
considers it to be good practice to set a look -back period of three years for refinancing o pex. 
- Under the Renewable Energy category, Siemens Energy  will invest in the following  through the 
refinancing of SGRE’s existing debt : i) the design, development, manufacture and installation of 
onshore and offshore wind turbines ; and ii) the operation and maintenance of onshore and 
offshore wind farms . The Company may also refinance the acquisition of SGRE , which is 
considered a pure  play compa ny.5  
▪ Siemens Energy has confirmed to Sustainalytics that SGRE’s facilities will be dedicated 
to the manufacture of components for renewable energy technologies , namely wind 
turbines . 
▪ Siemens Energy has confirmed to Sustainalytics that the use of proceeds for the 
refinancing of the acquisition  of SGRE  will be linked to the fair value of eligible assets 
of SGRE . 
▪ The Company will use the proceeds to refinanc e debt provided for general cor porate 
purposes to SGRE, a pure  play company . Sustainalytics recognizes that the GBP 
favo urs project -based financing and that there is general ly less transparency with non -
project -based financing. Nevertheless, Sustainalytics recognizes that the financing of 
pure  play companies is commonly accepted as an approach which can generate 
positive impact.  
▪ Sustainalytics considers investments under this category to be in line with market 
expectations.  
• Project Evaluation and Selection:  
- Siemens Energy intends to use net proceeds from the green bond issuance under the 
Framework exclusively to refinance the acquisition of SGRE or the existing debt of SGRE.  
 
5 Pure play companies are defined as entities that derive 90% or more of their revenues from activities meeting the eligibility criteria in the Framework  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 4 
- The Company’s ESG due diligence process is applicable to current and future investme nts and 
is founded on the IFC’s minimum standards and the Company’s internal Environment, Health 
and Safety guidelines. The process is based on a set of ESG criteria related to laws and 
regulations, working standards and environmental, social and governanc e considerations. 
Additionally, Siemens Energy has a dedicated team to conduct human rights due diligence in the 
sales phase of projects. For additional details, see Section 2.  
- Based on the exclusive use of proceeds and the presence of adequate environment al and social 
risk management systems, Sustainalytics considers this process to be in line with market 
expectations.  
• Management of Proceeds:  
- Siemens Energy’s Treasury and Corporate Finance team  will manage net proceeds  from  the 
green bond issuance  under the Framework on a portfolio basis and the allocation of proceeds 
will be tracked using internal  systems . 
- The Company intends to allocate net proceeds within 24 months of issuance. Pending full 
allocation, unallocated net proceeds will be managed in accordance with Siemens Energy ’s 
treasury  policy and may be invested in cash , cash equivalents  or overnight bank deposits  on a 
temporary basis . 
- Based on clear definitions of how proceeds will be tracked, held and disbursed, Sustainalytics 
considers this process to be in line with market expectations.  
• Reporting:  
- Siemens Energy  is commit ted to reporting on the allocation and impact of proceeds on its 
website within one year of issuance and on an annual basis until full allocation or later in the 
case of material changes . 
- Allocation reporting will include an overview of  the outstanding  green bond, the share of 
financing versus refinancing and the amount of unallocated proceeds.  
- Where feasible, impact reporting will include information on  qualitative and quantitative 
environmental outcomes of the use of proceeds of the green bond issued. The impact  report 
may also include impact metrics , such as installed wind power capacity, net to Siemens Energy 
(measured in GW) ; R&D related to Wind Power, net to Siemens Energy ( measured in million s of 
EUR); and capex  invested in Wind Power, net to Siemens Energy ( measured in million s of EUR). 
- Based on the commitment to allocation and impact reporting, Sustainalytics considers this 
process to be in line with market expectations.  
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 20 21 
Sustainalytics has determined that the Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework  aligns with  the four core 
components  of the GBP . For detailed information , please refer to Appendix 1: Green Bond/Green Bond 
Programme External Review Form.  
Section 2: Sustainability Performance of Siemens Energy  
Contribution to Siemens Energy ’s sustainability strategy  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Siemens Energy, through its majority stake in SGRE , supports positive 
environmental outcomes through the design, development, manufacturing, supply , installation and 
maintenance of products and solutions for wind turbines . Sustainalytics considers that Siemens Energy ’s 
acquisition of the remaining share s of SGRE and its subsequent delisting and integration into the Company is 
expected to facilitate the global clean energy transition.6 SGRE  demonstrates a commitment to environmental  
sustainability through its focus on the following environmental areas: i) decarbonization;  and ii) recyclability.7  
SGRE has targeted carbon neutrality in its own operations without the use of carbon offsets by 2030  and aims 
to become carbon positive in its own operations by 2040 .8 SGRE  aims to achieve its targets by implementing 
energy reduction, substitution and efficiency measures ; sourcing energy from renewable sources ; switching 
to low-carbon  transportation to reduce fleet emissions ; and launching awareness campaigns to encourage 
 
6 Siemens Energy, “Siemens Energy Sustainable Report 2022 ”, (2022), at: https://assets.siemens -energy.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:49bc59fb -7af0 -
47fc -a764 -a3550d4153dc/siemens -energy -sustainability -report-2022.pdf?ste_sid=e3c846d43fd52df2eb00014f6f7762ce  
7 Siemens Gamesa, “Consolidated Non -Financial Statement  2022” ( 2022), at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/ -
/media/siemensgamesa/downloads/en/sustainability/siemens -gamesa -conso lidated -non-financial -statement -2022 -en.pdf  
8 Siemens Gamesa, “ Our action plan to become carbon positive ”, at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/en -int/explore/journal/2022/09/carbon -positive -
sustainability -decarbonization  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 5 
employees to make environmental improvements.9 SGRE has sourced 100% of its electricity from renewable 
sources since 2020 and has a n SBTi -verified target to reduce its scope 1 and 2 GHG emission intensity by 
70% per MW installed by 2025 relative to a 2017 b aseline.10 Since more than 95% of its carbon footprint is 
generated in its supply chain, SGRE aims to ensure that 30% of its suppliers by spend – covering purchased 
goods and services, transportation and distribution – have science -based targets by 2025 and 50% by 
2040.11,12 
Regarding recyclability, SGRE aims to ensure that all turbines it manufactures by 2040 will be 100% recyclable 
and that turbine blades will be fully recyclable by 2030.13 SGRE achieved a recyclability rate of 95% for its 
turbines  in FY2022.14 In 2022, it launched RecyclableBlade, the world’s first recyclable rotor blade for 
commercial offshore use, and installed the first turbine blades in 2022.15 Furthermore, SGRE participates in 
multiple wind turbine recycling initiatives, such as the DecomBlades consortium and EnergyLOOP 
initiative.16,17,18  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework is aligned with the Company’s 
overall sustainability initiatives and will further the Company’s action on its ke y environmental priorities.  
Approach to managing  environmental and social risks associated with  the projects  
Sustainalytics recognizes that the proceeds from the instruments issued under the Framework will be directed 
towards the acqui sition of SGRE and toward eligible projects executed by SGRE that are expected to have 
positive environmental and social impact.  However, Sustainalytics is aware that the intended acquisition or 
investments in such projects could also lead to negative environmental and social outcomes. Some key 
environmental and social risks possibly associated with the eligible projects may include issues related to 
product and service design and life  cycle management ; emissions , effluents and waste ; occupational health 
and safety ; and community relations . As a subsidiary of Siemens Energy , SGRE has its own policies and 
procedures in place, which Sus tainalytics has commented on below.  
• To mitigate ESG -related risks that may arise from mergers and acquisitions, Siemens Energy 
has established a questionnaire for target companies to obtain and identify relevant risks. The 
questionnaire includes queries f or the target company regarding sustainability policies, 
sustainability -related targets, initiatives, sustainability structure, sustainability reporting, ESG 
ratings and operations in disputed areas , among other  topics .  
• SGRE undertakes life cycle assessments (LCAs) of its products and operations in accordance 
with the ISO 1404019 and applicable product category rules. The LCAs are used to quantify and 
document the  environmental  impact across the product life cycle and to ident ify opportunities 
to improve both product - and operation -related environmental performance in future designs  
and processes , respectively . To improve product -related environmental performance , SGRE 
undertakes initiatives such as  using replacement materials to reduce the amount of material  
used and component weights.  To improve operation -related performance, SGRE implements 
action plans for the materials and substances used, waste generated, energy consumed, and 
volatile organic c ompounds emitted. Furthermore, SGRE follows its global Code of  Conduct for 
Suppliers and Third -Party Intermediaries ,20 which establish es standards  for third parties  to 
ensure safe working conditions.  Additionally, SGRE define s specifications for and maintain s 
 
9 Siemens Gamesa, “Consolidated Non -Financial Statement 2022” (2022), at: Siemens Gamesa, “Consolidated Non -Financial Statement 2022” (2022), at: 
https://www.siemensgamesa.com/ -/media/siemensgamesa/downloads/en/sustainability/siemens -gamesa -consolidated -non-financial -statement -
2022 -en.pdf  
10 Ibid.  
11 Ibid.  
12 Siemens Game sa, “Sustainability Vision towards 2040”, at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/en -int/-
/media/siemensgamesa/downloads/en/sust ainability/sustainability -strategy -2040.pdf  
13 Siemens Gamesa, “Consolidated Non -Financial Statement 2022” , (2022), at:  https://www.siemensgamesa.com/ -
/media/siemensgamesa/downloads/en/sustainability/siemens -gamesa -consolidated -non-financial -statement -2022 -en.pdf  
14 Ibid.  
15 Siemens Gamesa, “ Siemens Gamesa pioneers wind circularity: launch of world’s first recyclable wind turbine blade for commercial use offshore ”, (2021), 
at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/newsroom/2021/09/launch -world -first-recyclable -wind -turbine -blade  
16 The DecomBlades consortium is a  three -year project providing the basis for commercialization of sustainable recy cling of wind turbine blades . 
DecomBlades: https://decomblades.dk/  
17 EnergyLoop pursues innovation and technology for the recycling of wind turbine blades.  EnergyLoop: https://energyloop.info/en/about -us/ 
18 Siemens Gamesa, “Consolidated Non -Financial Statement 2022” (2022), at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/ -
/media/siemensgamesa/downloads/en/sustainability/siemens -gamesa -conso lidated -non-financial -statement -2022 -en.pdf  
19 ISO, “ISO 14040:2006 – Environmental management”, at: https://www.iso.org/standard/37456.html  
20 Siemens Gamesa, “Code of Conduct for  Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries ”, at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/en -int/-
/media/siemensgamesa/downloads/en/sustainability/code -of-conduct/code_of_conduct_for_suppliers_and_third_party_intemediaries_en.pdf  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 6 
dialogue with  its suppliers for the supply of environmentally  improved materials, articles and 
components .21 
• Regarding emissions, effluents and waste, SGRE focuses on improving the recyclability of 
turbine components to mi nimize waste produced. SGRE has facilities dedicated to repairing 
components, such as gearboxes, generators, electrical boards and blades, and returning them 
to operation.22 Waste generation and management at SGRE are governed by its internal global 
waste management procedure, which details systems for recording different types of waste, 
obligations for local waste management plans and for waste segregation, labelling and storage 
to make sure there is no contamination from spills while ensuring proper dispo sal.23 
• SGRE has an Occupational Health and Safety Management System, which is certified to 
ISO 45001:2018.24 The certification’s scope covers all areas and processes related to the sale, 
design, development, procurement and manufacturing of wind turbines a nd other mechanical 
and electrical components for all applications. Furthermore, SGRE continually implements 
health and safety improvements, such as its Safety is My Choice and 10 Life -Saving Rules,25,26 
at its production facilities and operational and pro ject sites, which are monitored and verified by 
internal systems. SGRE governs incident management through a global procedure and internal 
controls that outline criteria for classifying, recording, notifying, investigating and analyzing 
incidents to detect  their underlying cause, implement corrective actions and detect 
opportunities to implement preventive action and continuous improvement.27 
Sustainalytics ’ research identifie d the presence of controversies surrounding SGRE’s operations in Western 
Sahara, specifically regarding the continued delivery and installation of wind turbines since 2013. Reports 
from human rights organizations indicate that SGRE’s operations in Western Sahara may have been carried 
out without community consent. Additionally,  it is alleged that the energy produced is used for the 
controversial phosphate export and not for the benefit of local communities. This poses a risk that Siemens 
Energy, through SGRE’s operations, may be involved in human rights violations.28 
While Sieme ns Energy and SGRE have in place Business Conduct Guidelines29,30 and a Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries31,32 to assess and mitigate potential human right risks, Sustainalytics 
acknowledges the controversy stemming from these op erations and encourages Siemens Energy and SGRE 
to transparently report on the human rights due diligence efforts taken to address and mitigate actual and 
potential negative impact.  
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds  
The use of proceeds category is align ed with those recognized  by the GBP. Sustainalytics explains below how 
the project category contributes to the expansion of wind energy and its role in the decarbonization of the 
energy sector globally.  
Importance of financing wind energy to facilitate the clean energy transition  
Energy -related CO 2 emissions rose to 36.3 gigatonnes globally in 2021, an increase of 6% compared to 2020 
levels.33 According to the IEA’s roadmap to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, increased supplies of clean 
 
21 Siemens Gamesa, “Consoli dated Non -Financial Statement 2022”, at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/ -
/media/siemensgamesa/downl oads/en/sustainability/siemens -gamesa -consolidated -non-financial -statement -2022 -en.pdf  
22 Ibid.  
23 Ibid.  
24 ISO, “ISO 45001:2018 – Occupational health and safety management systems”, at: https://www.iso.org/standard/63787.html  
25 Siemens Gamesa, “Business Conduct Guidelines ”, (2018), at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/en -int/-
/media/siemensgamesa/dow nloads/en/sustainability/business -conduct -guidelines/siemens -gamesa -business -conduct -guidelines -en.pdf  
26 The 10 Life -Saving Rules cover the most critical safety hazards and are the minimum expectation that must be fulfill ed in all SGRE activities.  
27 Ibid.  
28 Sustainalytics, "Global Standards Screening: Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy  SA" 
29 Siemens Energy, “Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines”, at: https://assets.siemens -energy.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:c37de761 -64d8 -4d89 -ac06 -
b5659b468f88/se -scm -code -of-conduct -brochure.pdf?ste_sid=bf03dbf6952ce82bb9f626ed7f99bb42     
30 Siemens Gamesa, “Business Conduct Guidelines”, at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/en -int/-
/media/siemensgamesa/downloads/en/sustainability/business -conduct -guidelines/siemens -gamesa -business -conduct -guidelines -en.pdf   
31 Siemens Energy, “Siemens Energy Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries”, at: https://assets.siemens -
energy.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:ee808d08 -a638 -4a55 -9905 -c9e989e38de8/code -of-conduct -en.pdf   
32 Siemens Gamesa, “Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third Part y Intermediaries”, at: https://www.siemensgamesa.com/en -int/-
/media/siem ensgamesa/downloads/en/sustainability/code -of-conduct/code_of_conduct_for_suppliers_and_third_party_intemediaries_en.pdf   
33 IEA, “Global CO2 emissions rebounded to their highest level in history in 2021”, (2022), at: https://www.iea.org/news/global -co2-emissions -rebounded -
to-their -highest -level -in-history -in-2021   
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 7 
energy combined with measures to save energy are needed to reduce CO 2 emissions in the energy sector.34 
An abatement of 36.9  Gt of annual CO 2 emissions is achievable between 2022 and 2050 through six 
technological avenues, including increasing the share of  renewables.35 Global energy investments are set to 
increase by 8% in 2022 to reach a total of USD  2.4 trillion, with the majority of investments expected to finance 
clean energy solutions.36 IRENA’s 1.5°C scenario will require an investment of USD 5.7  trillion per year until 
2030, including a redirection of investments of USD  700 billion per year from fossil fuels.37 Despite this growth, 
IRENA described the global energy transition as “far from being on track” to achieve the 1.5°C scenario.38  
Global renew able energy -based electricity generation reached an all -time high in 2021, increasing by 500 TWh 
compared to 2020 levels and exceeding a total of 8,000 TWh.39 Wind electricity generation increased globally 
by 273 TWh in 2021, an increase of 55% compared to  2020 levels and the highest among all renewable power 
technologies.40 Wind energy is expected to play a key role in driving future growth in renewables and needs to 
achieve an electricity -generation level of approximately 7,900 TWh by 2030 under the IEA’s  Net Zero 
Emissions by 2050 Scenario, implying an average expansion of approximately 18% per year between 2022 
and 2030.41 
Based on the above  context, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the continued proliferation of clean energy 
technologies is critica l to reducing CO 2 emissions in the energy sector and that Siemens Energy’s acquisition 
of SGRE is expected to facilitate the decarbonization of the energy sector  and support the clean energy 
transition . 
Contribution to SDGs  
The Sustainable Development Goals were adopted in September 2015 by the United Nations General 
Assembly and form part of an agenda for achieving sustainable development by 2030. The instruments issued 
under the Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework  are expec ted to help advance the following SDG s and 
target s:  
Use of Proceeds 
Category  SDG  SDG target  
Renewable Energy  7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy  7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix.  
9. Industry, Innovation and 
Infrastructure  9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit  
industries to make them sustainable, with  
increased resource -use efficiency and greater  
adoption of clean and environmentally sound  
technologies and industrial processes, with all  
countries taking action in accordance with  
their respective capabilities  
 
Conclusion  
Siemens Energy  has developed the Siemens Energy  Green Bond Framework, under which it intends to issue a 
green bond and use an amount equal to the net proceeds to refinance the acquisition of SGRE or the existing 
debt of SGRE. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the acquisition, entity and projects funded by the proceeds 
from the green bond issuance are expected to support the clean energy transition.  
The Siemens Energy  Green Bond Framework  outlines a process by which proceeds will be tracked, allocated 
and managed, and commitments have been made for reporting on the allocat ion and impact of the use of 
proceeds. Furthermore, Sustainalytics believes that the Siemens Energy  Green Bond Framework  is aligned 
 
34 IEA, “World  Energy Outlook 2022”, (2022), at: https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/830fe099 -5530 -48f2 -a7c1 -
11f35d510983/WorldEnergyOutlook2022.p df 
35 IRENA, “World Energy Transition Outlook 2022 1.5° C Pathway”, (2022), at: https://www.irena.org/ -
/media/Files/IRENA/Agency/Publication/2022/Mar/IRENA_World_Energy_ Transitions_Outlook_2022.pdf?rev=353818def8b34effa24658f475799464   
36 IEA, “Record clean energy spending is set to help global energy investments grow by 8% in 2022”, (2022), at: https://www.iea.org/news/record -clean -
energy -spending -is-set-to-help -global -energy -investment -grow -by-8-in-2022   
37 IRENA, “ Energy Transi tion Holds Key to Tackle Global Energy and Climate Crisis ”, (2022), at: 
https://www.irena.org/News/pressreleases/2022/Mar /Energy -Transition -Holds -Key-to-Tackle -Global -Energy -and-Climate -Crisis   
38 IRENA, “World Energy Transition Outlook 2022 1.5° C Pathway”, (2022), at: https://www.irena.org/ -
/media/Files/IRENA/Agency/Publication/2022/Mar/IRENA_World_Energy_Transitions_Outlook_2022.pdf?rev=353818def8b34effa24658f475 799464   
39 IEA, “Global Energy Review: CO 2 emissions in 2021”, (2022), at: https://www.iea.org/reports/global -energy -review -co2-emissions -in-2021 -2  
40 IEA, “Wind Electricity Tracking Report”, (2022), at: https://www.iea.org/reports/wind -electricity   
41 Ibid.  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 8 
with the overall sustainability strategy of the Company and that the use of proceeds  categories  will contribute 
to the advan cement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals 7 and 9. Additionally, Sustainalytics is of the 
opinion that Siemens Energy has adequate measures to identify, manage and mitigate environmental and 
social risks commonly associated with the acquisition and el igible projects funded by the use of proceeds.  
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Siemens Energy  is well positioned to issue a green bond 
and that the Siemens Energy  Green Bond Framework  is robust, transparent and in alignment with the fo ur core 
components of the Green Bond Principles 2021.  
  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 9 
Append ix 
Appendix 1: Green Bond / Green Bond Programme  - External Review Form  
Section 1.  Basic Information  
Issuer name:  Siemens Energy  
Green Bond ISIN or Issuer Green Bond Framework 
Name, if applicable : Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework  
Review provider’s name:  Sustainalytics  
Completion date of this form:  January  18, 2023 
Publication date of review publication:   
Section 2 . Review overview  
SCOPE OF REVIEW  
The following may be used or adapted, where appropriate, to summarize  the scope of the review.  
The review assessed the following elements and confirmed their alignment with the GBP:  
☒ Use of Proceeds  ☒ Process for Project Evaluation and 
Selection  
☒ Management of Proceeds  ☒ Reporting  
ROLE(S) OF REVIEW PROVIDER  
☒ Consultancy (incl. 2nd opinion)  ☐ Certification  
☐ Verification  ☐ Rating  
☐ Other (please specify) :   
Note: In case of multiple reviews / different providers, please provide separate forms for each review.  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF REVIEW and/or LINK TO FULL REVIEW (if applicable)  
Please refer to E valuation  Summary above.  
 
 
 
Section 3. Detailed review  
Reviewe rs are encouraged to provide the information below to the extent possible and use the comment 
section to explain the scope of their review.  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 10 
1. USE OF PROCEEDS  
Overall comment on section (if applicable) :  
Siemens Energy will use the proceeds to refinance the acquisition of its subsidiary Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy or the existing debt of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy. The eligible category for the 
use of proceeds, Renewable Energy , is aligned with those recognized by the Green Bond Principles. 
Sustainalytics considers that investments in the eligible category is expected to lead to positive environmental 
impact and advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals, specifically SDGs 7 and 9.   
 
Use o f proceeds categories as per GBP:  
☒ Renewable energy  ☐ Energy efficiency  
☐ Pollution prevention and control  ☐ Environmentally sustainable management of 
living natural resources and land use  
☐ Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity 
conservation  ☐ Clean transportation  
☐ Sustainable water and wastewater 
management  ☐ Climate change adaptation  
☐ Eco-efficient and/or circular economy 
adapted products, production technologies 
and processes  ☐ Green buildings  
☐ Unknown at issuance but currently expected 
to conform with GBP categories, or other 
eligible areas not yet stated in GBP  ☐ Other (please specify) : 
If applicable please specify the environmental taxonomy, if other than GBP:  
 
2. PROCESS FOR PROJECT EVALUATION AND SE LECTION  
Overall comment on section (if applicable):  
Siemens Energy intends to use the net proceeds from the green bond issuance under the Siemens Energy 
Green Bond Framework exclusively to refinance the acquisition of SGRE or the existing debt of SGRE. Si emens 
Energy  adheres to its ESG due diligence process to identify and manage potential environmental and social 
risks associated with the eligible investments. Sustainalytics  considers the risk management systems to be 
adequate and the project selection p rocess to be in line with market expectations.  
Evaluation and selection  
☒ Credentials on the issuer’s environmental 
sustainability objectives  ☒ Documented process to determine that 
projects fit within defined categories  
☒ Defined and transparent criteria for projects 
eligible for Green Bond proceeds  ☒ Documented process to identify and 
manage potential ESG risks associated 
with the project  
☐ Summary criteria for project evaluation and 
selection publicly available  ☐ Other (please specify):  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 11 
Information on Responsibilities and Accountability  
☐ Evaluation / Selection criteria subject to 
external advice or verification  ☒ In-house assessment  
☐ Other (please specify):    
3. MANAGEMENT OF PROCEEDS  
Overall comment on section (if applicable) : 
Siemens Energy ’s Treasury and Corporate Finance team  will manage net proceeds from the issuance  under 
the Framework on a portfolio basis, and proceeds will be tracked using internal systems. Siemens Energy 
intends to allocate net proceeds within 24 months of issuance. Pending full allocation, unallocated proceeds 
will be managed in accordance with Si emens Energy’s treasury policy and may be invested in cash, cash 
equivalents or overnight bank deposits on a temporary basis . This is in line with market expectations.  
 
Tracking of proceeds:  
☒ Green Bond proceeds segregated or tracked by the issuer in an  appropriate manner  
☒ Disclosure of intended types of temporary investment instruments for unallocated 
proceeds  
☐ Other (please specify) : 
Additional disclosure:  
☐ Allocations to future investments only  ☒ Allocations to both existing and future 
investments  
☐ Allocation to individual disbursements  ☒ Allocation to a portfolio of 
disbursements  
☒ Disclosure of portfolio balance of 
unallocated proceeds  ☐ Other (please specify) : 
 
4. REPORTING  
Overall comment on section (if applicable):  
Siemens Energy intends to report on the allocation and impact of proceeds on its website within one year of 
issuance and on an annual basis until full allocation. Allocation reporting will include the share of f inancing 
versus refinancing and the amount of unallocated proceeds. In addition, Siemens Energy is committed to 
reporting on relevant impact metrics. Sustainalytics views Siemens Energy’s allocation and impact reporting 
commitments as aligned with market e xpectations.  
 
Use of proceeds reporting:  
☐ Project -by-project  ☐ On a project portfolio basis  
☒ Linkage to individual bond(s)  ☐ Other (please specify):  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 12 
Information reported:  
☒ Allocated amounts  ☐ Green Bond financed share of total 
investment  
☐ Other (please specify):  share of 
financing vs refinancing, balance 
of unallocated proceeds    
Frequency:  
☒ Annual  ☐ Semi -annual  
☐ Other (please specify):   
Impact reporting:  
☐ Project -by-project  ☒ On a project portfolio basis  
☐ Linkage to individual bond(s)  ☐ Other (please specify):  
Information reported (expected or ex -post):  
☐ GHG Emissions / Savings  ☐  Energy Savings  
☐ Decrease in water use  ☐  Other ESG indicators (please 
specify):  Installed wind power 
capacity, net to Siemens 
Energy (measured in GW), 
R&D related to Wind Power, 
net to Siemens Energy 
(measured in millions of 
Euros) and capex invested in 
Wind Power, net to Siemens 
Energy (measured in millions 
of Euros)  
Frequency  
☒ Annual  ☐ Semi -annual  
☐ Other (please specify):    
Means of Disclosure  
☐ Information published in financial report  ☐ Information published in sustainability 
report  
☐ Information published in ad hoc 
documents  ☒ Other (please specify):  Siemens 
Energy’s website  (link  mentioned 
below in Useful Links) 
☐ Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to 
external review):  
 
Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section.  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 13 
USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.)  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/company/investor -relations/publications -ad-
hoc.html#QuarterlyandAnnualResults SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE  
Type(s) of Review provided:  
☐ Consultancy (incl. 2nd opinion)  ☐ Certification  
☐ Verification / Audit  ☐ Rating  
☐ Other (please specify):  
Review provider(s):  Date of publication:  
  
ABOUT ROLE(S) OF INDEPENDENT REVIEW PROVIDERS AS DEFINED BY THE GBP  
i. Second -Party Opinion: An institution with environmental expertise, that is independent from the issuer may 
issue a Second -Party Opinion. The institution should be independent from the issuer’s adviser for its Green 
Bond framework, or appropriate procedures, such as information barriers, will have been implement ed within 
the institution to ensure the independence of the Second -Party Opinion. It normally entails an assessment of 
the alignment with the Green Bond Principles. In particular, it can include an assessment of the issuer’s 
overarching objectives, strateg y, policy and/or processes relating to environmental sustainability, and an 
evaluation of the environmental features of the type of projects intended for the Use of Proceeds.  
ii. Verification: An issuer can obtain independent verification against a designated  set of criteria, typically 
pertaining to business processes and/or environmental criteria. Verification may focus on alignment with 
internal or external standards or claims made by the issuer. Also, evaluation of the environmentally 
sustainable features o f underlying assets may be termed verification and may reference external criteria. 
Assurance or attestation regarding an issuer’s internal tracking method for use of proceeds, allocation of 
funds from Green Bond proceeds, statement of environmental impact  or alignment of reporting with the GBP, 
may also be termed verification.  
iii. Certification: An issuer can have its Green Bond or associated Green Bond framework or Use of Proceeds 
certified against a recognised external green standard or label. A standard or  label defines specific criteria, 
and alignment with such criteria is normally tested by qualified, accredited third parties, which may verify 
consistency with the certification criteria.  
iv. Green Bond Scoring/Rating: An issuer can have its Green Bond, assoc iated Green Bond framework or a key 
feature such as Use of Proceeds evaluated or assessed by qualified third parties, such as specialised research 
providers or rating agencies, according to an established scoring/rating methodology. The output may include 
a focus on environmental performance data, the process relative to the GBP, or another benchmark, such as 
a 2-degree climate change scenario. Such scoring/rating is distinct from credit ratings, which may 
nonetheless reflect material environmental risks.  
 
  
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 14 
Disclaimer  
Copyright ©202 2 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved.  
The information, methodologies  and opinions  contained or reflected herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics 
and/or its third party suppliers  (Third Party Data), and  may  be made available to  third parties only in the form 
and format disclosed by Sustainalytics, or  provided that appropriate citation and acknowledgement is 
ensured. They  are provided for informational purposes only and (1) do not constitute an endorsement of any 
product or proje ct; (2) do not constitute investment advice, financial advice  or a prospectus; (3) cannot be 
interpreted as an offer or indication to buy or sell securities, to select a project or make any kind of business 
transactions; (4) do not represent an assessment of the issuer’s economic performance, financial obligations 
nor of its creditworthiness;  and/or  (5) have not and cannot be incorporated into any offering disclosure.  
These are  based  on information made available by the issuer and therefore are not warrante d as to their 
merchantability, completeness, accuracy, up -to-dateness or fitness for a particular purpose. The information 
and data are provided “as is” and reflect Sustainalytics` opinion at the date of their elaboration and publication. 
Sustainalytics ac cepts no liability for damage arising from the use of the information, data or opinions 
contained herein, in any manner whatsoever, except where explicitly required by law. Any reference to third 
party names or Third Party Data is for appropriate acknowled gement of their ownership and does not 
constitute a sponsorship or endorsement by such owner. A list of our third -party data providers and their 
respective terms of use is available on our website. For more information, 
visit http://www.sustainalytics.com/legal -disclaimers . 
The issuer is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring the compliance with its commitments, for their 
implementation and monitoring.  
In case of discrepancies between the English language and translated versions, the English language version 
shall prevail.   
Second -Party Opinion   
Siemens Energy Green Bond Framework   
  
 
  
 15 
About Sustainalytics , a Morningstar Company  
Sustainalytics, a Morningstar Company, is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that supports 
investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. 
For more than 30 years, the firm has been at the forefront of developing high -quality, innovative solutions to 
meet the evolving nee ds of global investors. Today, Sustainalytics works with hundreds of the world’s leading 
asset managers and pension funds who incorporate ESG and corporate governance information and 
assessments into their investment processes. Sustainalytics also works wi th hundreds of companies and 
their financial intermediaries to help them consider sustainability in policies, practices and capital projects. 
With 17 offices globally, Sustainalytics has more than 1500 staff members, including more than 500 analysts 
with v aried multidisciplinary expertise across more than 40 industry groups.  
For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
Or contact us contact@sustainalytics.com  
 
