Power-to-x Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Energy landscape for Power to X activities Sector coupling is the energetic link of sectors like power, energy, mobility, industry or building. It acts as a link between renewable energy sources (wind, solar, water...) and consumers . Power-to-X as the key technology in sector coupling allows us to transform and save energy from renewable resources in a chemical form for long-term storage and use, with green hydrogen and its derivatives as the core component. Discover how Power-to-X technology is transforming the energy landscape, harmonizing diverse sectors and paving the way for a sustainable future. Watch the video! Power-to-X: climate-neutral sector coupling Power-to-X (PtX) and hybrid solutions are always a subset of the energy landscape shown in the image. In PtX applications, hydrogen is converted into molecules along the energy landscape via a synthesis process , but no re-electrification takes place. Benefits of Power-to-X solutions The provision of renewable energy in the form of green hydrogen and its derivatives opens up new business areas and offers additional benefits . With our technical know-how and additional services, we provide you with optimal Power-to-X solutions . Decarbonization by CO₂ reduction Increased efficiency of an optimized solution Transport and storage of renewable energy Power-to-X use cases Green hydrogen can be used to produce various types of synthetic fuels like eKerosene, eMethanol, eAmmonia and eGasoline , which support the decarbonization of the aviation, shipping, fertilizer and transportation industry. In energy-intensive industries like steel production, it can replace gray hydrogen and other substances directly through green hydrogen production . e-Methanol: a universal green fuel In the future, non-fossil e-Methanol will see vast new application fields. This paper focuses on the green hydrogen path, which uses renewable electricity: Dive deeper Power-to-X: On the way to a carbon free world This paper pr ovides an overview of use cases and solution packages for industries, utilities and project developer . Dive deeper e-Ammonia: multi-functional and eco-friendly Find out more about the economic feasibility, key markets and applications of e-Ammonia around the world in connection with Power-to-X: Dive deeper Power-to-X: from electrons to molecules The generation of renewable energies is one side of the coin. How can you ensure a reliable and constantly available energy supply for your system in a cost-effective way? Discover the right solution for your project! Grid connected projects Off grid projects Grid connected Power-to-X projects provide stable power-supply, however, they are facing challenges regarding grid code requirements as well as regulatory boundary conditions. We take care of seamless connection and interaction with the grid, dispatch control according to regulatory requirements (e.g. hourly correlation) as well as digital certification of your product in terms of CO₂ footprint. Siemens Energy is the only manufacturer of Power-to-X solutions with the portfolio, experience and knowledge of power generation and grid connection . We use our expertise and our tolls for system design and simulation to determine optimum technical and economic solutions for you. As an additional benefit, electrolysis can be used as a fast energy balancing unit and its end products as energy storage. Off-Grid Power-to-X projects provide advantages regarding compliance with regulatory requirements due to inherent geographic and timely correlation. In addition, grid utilization charges can be avoided. The biggest challenge for off-grid or weak-grid projects lies in designing the grid forming and stabilizing equipment in close connection with an integrated control system . Siemens Energy has acquired significant experience in modelling complex island grids from renewables to the electrolyzers and other downstream consumers, which is the basis for simulation and optimization of essential grid stabilizing systems such as batteries, synchronous condensers or static converters. Exploring our Power-to-X services: Our comprehensive services offer you a risk reduction in implementation and overall availability of the plant. They help you to increase your benefits and your return on investment. Feasibility study Our feasibility studies develop tailored, economic solutions for sustainability, reducing carbon footprint. With our proven Energy System Design approach, we create optimal solutions for complex energy systems. Pre-FEED Pre-FEED studies offer valuable insights into project feasibility, costs, and benefits. Early risk and opportunity identification enables informed decision-making and maximizes investment profitability. FEED FEEDs provide you with a clear and comprehensive insight into your project's requirements and costs , empowering you to make informed decisions and maximize your investment profitability. Finance consultancy Seeking personalized financial guidance? Discover our expert consultancy, specifically tailored to meet your goals for financial success. Project management Ensure effective planning, organization , and oversight throughout your project’s lifecycle . Deployment We efficiently, safely install and commission the production equipment you need. After-sales services Our team provides diverse service packages for smooth, cost-effective, secure operation globally. CertaLink certification Our CertaLink certifies product authenticity , ensuring quality and reliability . Powering the future: the Power-to-X hydrogen economy We are working closely with partners from government, academia, and industry to create a hydrogen economy that is sustainable and profitable in the long term. Our team experts develops and integrated technologies to cover the entire hydrogen value chain - from wind parks through power transmission, large-scale industrialization of water electrolysis, as well as compression, transport, storage, and hydrogen-based power and heat generation. To accelerate the decarbonization of the entire energy system, we intend to keep developing our hydrogen portfolio, including the industrial-scale Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) electrolyzers and hydrogen ready gas turbines Purple field: own / majority owned portfolio; Turquoise field: JV / minority owned portfolio; White field: portfolio from external partners Power-to-X: the chemical processes behind After hydrogen is produced through electrolysis, the chemical conversion process into its derivates begins. The economic efficiency and the flexibility of the chemical processes, also regarding the production of different end products, play a decisive role. We are a global leader in energy technology . We support companies and countries to reduce emissions across the energy landscape – for a more reliable, affordable and sustainable energy system. Combined with our knowledge of the underlying chemical processes and the latest technical innovations , we are the right partner for your projects. Siemens Energy offers tailor-made, flexible Power-to-X solutions with high technical readiness and diverse synthesis pathways . We collaborate with qualified partners to deliver individual solutions and integrate them seamlessly into existing infrastructures. Experience the future with our innovative and sustainable Power-to-X technologies. Power-to-X: our proof points Haru Oni | Chile Fuel from wind and water In December 2022, the first low-carbon fuel was produced at a large-scale plant using wind and water Siemens Energy, with international partners, developed and implemented this pioneering project The system is to produce 130,000 liters of eFuel in 2023, projected to reach 55 million liters by 2028, and anticipated to produce 550 million liters annually by end of the decade Discover more Kassø | Denmark Large-scale eMethanol project Starting point into CO₂-neutral shipping in large-scale: end users of the eMethanol will be the shipping company Maersk and the fuel retailer Circle K among others. We will implement an electrolyzer plant in the 50 MW range European Energy will be responsible for utilizing the electrolyzer in Aabenraa in the Southern part of Denmark Discover more Related topics Hybrid power solution Decarbonize your independent power supply while ensuring cheap, available energy with a hybrid power solution from Siemens Energy. Electrolyzer and heat pump Our technology utilizes an electrolyzer and heat pump to produce hydrogen and heat from waste heat , reducing the need for additional equipment. Hydrogen power plants Our integrated hydrogen power plants help to lower CO₂ emissions with production of green hydrogen, re-electrification and heat for new and existing units. CertaLink certification Certify your green products with CertaLink certification from Siemens Energy. Benefit from our expertise and support in green certification. Read more November 14, 2022 9 min read Haru Oni: eFuel plant of the future November 20, 2022 11 min read What’s the next step in sustainable aviation? Commercialization. See all stories Hydrogen press releases March 2, 2022 Munich / Copenhagen Siemens Energy secures electrolyzer order from European Energy for world´s first large-scale eMethanol project December 20, 2022 Berlin A lighthouse project at the southern tip of Chile: Production starts at the world’s first industrial-scale facility for carbon-neutral fuel See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025