Sustainability at Siemens Energy Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Sustainability at Siemens Energy Focusing on resilience: Explore our continuous progress on the journey towards a sustainable future Sustainability is an integral part of our business strategy, and we have made significant progress in the past few years. We take pride in our consistent business implementation and the steady progress within our existing programs. In the years to come, we will focus on increasing the resilience of energy systems while supporting our customers in their energy transition. Sustainability Report 2024 Through performance reporting our Sustainability Report provides a comprehensive overview of our sustainability activities. Download now We focus on continuous improvement and after a strong business year, in FY24 we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 55% compared to 2019 and are on-track to achieve our climate neutrality target. We also achieved 24% of women in top leadership positions and continued to break barriers by reducing our gender pay gap for the second consecutive year to 3%. Note: Siemens Energy pursues the goal of an inclusive corporate culture and, in doing so,  follows all applicable laws. To the extent any statements, goals, policies, or practices articulated on this global webpage conflict with the anti-discrimination laws of the United States (“US”), the US entity will follow US law and not the policy. Siemens Energy, Inc. in the US does not make any employment decisions based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, qualified individuals with disabilities, or any other category protected by applicable law. Strategic partnerships for sustainable energy Siemens Energy has set ambitious sustainability targets and identified key decarbonization levers. With our technology, innovations, and people, we aim to push the boundaries of the energy transition through mutually beneficial partnerships. Learn more Our sustainability program Sustainability is at the core of our company strategy, enabling us to drive future growth, improve prosperity, and increase our resilience. We are a partner of choice for our stakeholders and shaper of the energy transition worldwide. Our Sustainability Program is oriented toward our company’s purpose, “We energize society” whilst contributing to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Through it, we guide our activities and focus on the most relevant topics that help us achieve our mission to support our customers in transitioning to a more sustainable world. Our businesses, regional entities and central functions work together to implement the program. We measure our progress against our goals and strategic KPIs. Learn more about our sustainability activities Decarbonization goals Learn more Innovation Learn more Inclusion and diversity Learn more Working at Siemens Energy Learn more Compliance and integrity Learn more Environment, health and safety EHS policy Zero harm approach Resource management Our ambition 2030 Sustainability in the supply chain Learn more Alignment with the United Nations' SDGs One thing is clear: business as usual is not an option. It is critical to act now to protect the climate while meeting the growing energy demand. We use the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to guide us in our purpose and mission. To ensure maximum impact, we focus our activities on SDG 5, 7, 8, 9, and 13 . ESG ratings & rankings The various ratings set different priorities on which they focus, e.g. some prioritize areas such as governance or decarbonization, others focus on the management of ESG risks – which means that the final ratings may vary. Sustainalytics ISS ESG MSCI CDP Morningstar Sustainalytics' ESG Risk Ratings provides an assessment of a company's exposure to industry-specific material ESG risks and its management of those risks. Rating: In August 2023, Siemens Energy received an ESG Risk Rating of 13.6 and was assessed by Sustainalytics to be at low risk of experiencing material financial impacts from ESG factors. We have been recognized as one of the top performing companies rated by Sustainalytics and have been included in the 2024 Top Industry List. Performance: Siemens Energy’s ESG Risk Rating places it in the lowest risk group in the Electrical Equipment industry assessed by Sustainalytics. ESG Risk Ratings at Morningstar Sustainalytics Copyright ©2022 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This publication contains information developed by Sustainalytics ( www.sustainalytics.com ). Such information and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. Their use is subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers . The Institutional Shareholder Services group of companies (ISS) provides corporate governance and responsible investment solutions, including proxy advisory services and market intelligence. Rating: In September 2024, Siemens Energy received an ESG Performance Rating and was rated B-Prime. ESG Risk Ratings at ISS MSCI provides decision support tools and services for the global investment community including indexes, analytical tools, data, real estate benchmarks and ESG research. Rating: In April 2024, Siemens Energy received a rating of BBB (on a scale of AAA to CCC) in the MSCI ESG Ratings assessment. ESG Risk Ratings at MSCI Indexes Disclaimer Statement THE USE BY SIEMENS ENERGY OF ANY MSCI ESG RESEARCH LLC OR ITS AFFILIATES (“MSCI”) DATA, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT, RECOMMENDATION, OR PROMOTION OF SIEMENS ENERGY BY MSCI.  MSCI SERVICES AND DATA ARE THE PROPERTY OF MSCI OR ITS INFORMATION PROVIDERS, AND ARE PROVIDED ‘AS-IS’ AND WITHOUT WARRANTY.  MSCI NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI. CDP is a not-for-profit charity that runs the global disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and regions to manage their environmental impacts. Rating: In Febuary 2024, Siemens Energy received CDP Climate Change Rating of A (on a scale of A to D-). Performance: Leadership level - Implementing current best practices ESG Risk Ratings at CDP We also collaborate with customers on platforms to share our sustainability performance with them. These platforms provide standardized questionnaires to assess companies against customers’ ESG requirements. EcoVadis Rating : In September 2023, Siemens Energy has been awarded a Gold medal by EcoVadis with an overall score of 75 points out of 100. Performance: Siemens Energy’s Sustainability rating places it at 98% percentile assessed by EcoVadis. ESG Risk Ratings at Ecovadis NQC NQC is a leader in supply chain risk management for the automotive, aerospace & defense and government. ESG Risk Ratings at NQC Our sustainability information 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024 PDF (3 MB) Download Annual Report 2024 (incl. Non-financial Declaration) PDF (4 MB) Download Siemens Energy ESG Performance Overview 2024 PDF (73 KB) Download Siemens Energy GRI Standard Index 2024 PDF (160 KB) Download Siemens Energy SASB Index 2024 PDF (37 KB) Download Siemens Energy Principal Adverse Indicators 2024 PDF (37 KB) Download Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023 PDF (5 MB) Download Sustainability at Siemens Energy - Summary 2023 PDF (1 MB) Download Sustainability at Siemens Energy - Summary 2023 (DE) PDF (1 MB) Download Annual Report 2023 (incl. Non-financial Declaration) PDF (4 MB) Download Siemens Energy ESG Performance Overview 2023 PDF (75 KB) Download Siemens Energy GRI Standard Index 2023 PDF (59 KB) Download Siemens Energy SASB Index 2023 PDF (37 KB) Download Siemens Energy Principal Adverse Indicators 2023 PDF (38 KB) Download Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022 PDF (7 MB) Download Sustainability at Siemens Energy - Summary 2022 PDF (1 MB) Download Annual Report 2022 (incl. Non-financial Declaration) PDF (3 MB) Download Siemens Energy ESG Performance Overview 2022 PDF (184 KB) Download Siemens Energy GRI Standard Index 2022 PDF (86 KB) Download Siemens Energy SASB Index 2022 PDF (49 KB) Download Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2021 PDF (7 MB) Download Sustainability at Siemens Energy - Summary 2021 PDF (4 MB) Download Annual Report 2021 (incl. Non-financial Declaration) PDF (3 MB) Download Siemens Energy ESG Performance Overview 2021 PDF (114 KB) Download Siemens Energy GRI Standard Index 2021 PDF (87 KB) Download Siemens Energy SASB Index 2021 PDF (53 KB) Download Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2020 PDF (5 MB) Download Siemens Energy Non-financial Report 2020 PDF (1 MB) Download Siemens Energy ESG Performance Overview 2020 PDF (76 KB) Download Siemens Energy GRI Standard Index 2020 PDF (225 KB) Download Note: Siemens Energy pursues the goal of an inclusive corporate culture and, in doing so,  follows all applicable laws. To the extent any statements, goals, policies, or practices articulated on this global webpage conflict with the anti-discrimination laws of the United States (“US”), the US entity will follow US law and not the policy. Siemens Energy, Inc. in the US does not make any employment decisions based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, qualified individuals with disabilities, or any other category protected by applicable law. Read more December 11, 2024 8 min read Strategic partnerships for sustainable energy December 9, 2024 3 min read We prioritize people to achieve Zero Harm December 9, 2024 3 min read Direct current circuit breakers make power grids more robust December 4, 2023 3 min read Our people fuel sustainability See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025