Earnings Release Q2 FY 2025 Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Earnings Release Q2 FY 2025: Outlook raised after strong first half year results, especially in the second quarter – focus on profitable growth Press release May 8, 2025 Munich After the strong start to the fiscal year, Siemens Energy's positive development continued in the recent quarter. Favorable market trends have led to a broad-based increase in demand for our products. In addition, Siemens Energy demonstrated strong project execution and operational performance in the quarter, to which all segments contributed. Overall, Siemens Energy achieved one of the strongest quarters ever. Siemens Energy's orders amounted to €14.4bn. This was 52.3% higher than in the prior-year quarter on a comparable basis (excluding currency translation and portfolio effects). In addition to sharp growth at Grid Technologies, the upturn was primarily due to Gas Services, which recorded the highest orders in a quarter to date. Book-to-bill ratio (ratio of orders to revenue) was again strong with 1.45, leading to a new record level of €133bn in the order backlog. Revenue increased double-digit in all segments. Overall, revenue grew by 20.7% on a comparable basis to €10.0bn. Siemens Energy's Profit before Special items amounted to €906m, reflecting a margin of 9.1%. All segments contributed to the increase year-over-year (Q2 FY 2024: €170m). Special items were negative €291m (Q2 FY 2024: positive €331m) primarily relating to the sale of the Indian wind business. Siemens Energy's Profit came in at €615m (Q2 FY 2024: €501m). Net income was €501m (Q2 FY 2024: €108m). The corresponding basic earnings per share amounted to €0.50 (Q2 FY 2024: €0.08). Free cash flow pre tax amounted to €1,390m, sharply increased compared to the prior-year's figure (Q2 FY 2024: €483m). Almost all segments contributed to this improvement. In addition to the profit development, this was primarily due to customer payments including reservation fees. Due to the positive business development, Siemens Energy updates the outlook for fiscal year 2025. Siemens Energy now expects for the Group to achieve comparable revenue growth in fiscal year 2025 in a range of 13% to 15% and a Profit margin before Special items between 4% and 6%. Siemens Energy expects a Net income of up to €1bn excluding assumed positive Special items subsequent to the demerger of the energy business from Siemens Limited, India. The outlook for Free cash flow pre tax for the fiscal year 2025 is updated to around €4bn. In April 2025, the government of the USA, among others, announced tariffs on imports from various countries. Siemens Energy is closely mon-itoring developments and continuously analysing their potential impact on its net assets, financial position and results of operations. For the second half of the fiscal year 2025, a limited direct impact on Siemens Energy’s Profit of up to a high double-digit million € amount, after mitigation measures, is currently expected. Christian Bruch, President and CEO of Siemens Energy AG: “The rising demand for electricity led to an exceptionally strong quarter and first half of the fiscal year for our business. The improved outlook reflects our confidence in the ongoing market opportunities and our excellent project execution. Even in light of the uncertain macroeconomic factors, our focus remains on profitable growth” Please read the complete Earnings Release: Earnings Release Q2 FY 2025: Outlook raised after strong first half year results, especially in the second quarter – focus on profitable growth May 8, 2025 PDF (735 KB) Download Outlook Due to the positive business development in the first half-year and the strong market demand, Siemens Energy updates the outlook for fiscal year 2025. The change in the outlook is driven by stronger than expected performances at Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry. Regarding Free cash flow pre tax, the higher outlook is particularly attributable to Gas Services and Grid Technologies, which both expe-rience strong cash inflows driven by customer payments related to strong order momentum. At Siemens Gamesa we continue to work on the measures to reach break-even in fiscal year 2026. We still expect sales activities for the 5.X onshore turbine to resume during fiscal year 2025. Siemens Energy now expects for the Group to achieve comparable revenue growth (excluding currency translation and portfolio effects) in fiscal year 2025 in a range of 13% to 15% (before 8% and 10%) and a Profit margin before Special items between 4% and 6% (before between 3% and 5%). Siemens Energy expects a Net income of up to €1bn (before around break-even) excluding assumed positive Special items subsequent to the demerger of the energy business from Siemens Limited, India. The outlook for Free cash flow pre tax for the 2025 fiscal year is updated to around €4bn (before to exceed the original guidance of up to €1bn). The outlook for Siemens Energy does not include charges related to any future legal and regulatory matters. Amended overall assumptions per business area Gas Services assumes a comparable revenue growth of 11% to 13% (before 7% to 9%) and a Profit margin before Special items of 11% to 13% (before 10% to 12%). Grid Technologies plans to achieve a comparable revenue growth of 24% to 26% (before 23% to 25%) and a Profit margin before Special items between 14% and 16% (before between 10% and 12%). Transformation of Industry expects a comparable revenue growth of 13% to 15% (before 11% to 13%) and a Profit margin before Special items of 9% to 11% (before 8% to 10%). Siemens Gamesa assumes a comparable revenue growth of 0% to 2% (before negative 9% to negative 5%) and a negative Profit before Special items of around €1.3bn (unchanged). Notes and forward-looking statements This document contains statements related to our future business and financial performance, and future events or developments involving Siemens Energy that may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “look forward to,” “antici-pate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project,” or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward-looking statements in other reports, prospectuses, in presentations, in material delivered to shareholders, and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens Energy´s management, of which many are beyond Siemens Energy´s control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including, but not limited to, those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter “Report on expected developments and associated material opportunities and risks” in the Annual Report and the Half-year Financial Report, which should be read in conjunction with the Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, should acts of force majeure, such as pandemics, occur, or should underlying expectations including future events occur at a later date or not at all, or should assumptions not be met, Siemens Energy´s actual results, perfor-mance, or achievements may (negatively or positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward-looking statement. Siemens Energy neither intends, nor assumes any obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of develop-ments which differ from those anticipated. This document includes supplemental financial measures – that are not clearly defined in the applicable financial reporting framework – and that are or may be alternative performance measures (non-GAAP-measures). These supplemental financial measures should not be viewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of Siemens Energy´s net assets and financial position or results of operations as presented in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework in its consolidated financial statements. Other companies that report or describe similarly titled alternative performance measures may calculate them differently. Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. Contact Tim Proll-Gerwe Siemens Energy tim.proll-gerwe@siemens-energy.com +49 152 2283-5652 Contact Oliver Sachgau Siemens Energy oliver.sachgau@siemens-energy.com +49 173 2729231 Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 101,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €34.5 billion in fiscal year 2024. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025