Energy Transition: Strategies, Solutions, and Technologies Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Driving the energy transition Discover strategies, solutions, and technologies to move the energy transition forward The energy transition is one of the most pressing global challenges of our time. It requires the shift towards more sustainable low carbon alternatives to limit earth’s warming to below 2º C. However, at 37.7 billion metric tons, global energy related CO2 emissions reached a new record in 2023. Current policies predict global CO2 emissions will peak soon, but without a significant decline, we’re on track for a 2.4º C temperature rise by the end of the century. Embracing the energy transition for a sustainable, zero-carbon world The energy transition is our main tool to lower emissions. It is a gradual and steady move away from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources and a zero-carbon energy system. There is no one single solution to get us there. Instead, different regions face different challenges shaped by policies, energy infrastructure and resources, as well as by returns on investment and the life of their current assets. As an energy technology company , we shape the path to a sustainable energy system with innovative collaborations for new technologies and strategies. It’s time for partners across the whole energy landscape to put them into action. PV panels on the rooftop of the CHP Leipzig-Süd. With its extremely low emissions, Leipzig Süd is one of the cleanest power stations in the world. A successful energy transition, reducing net carbon emissions to zero by the middle of the century would bring significant benefits to the environment, the economy, and the quality of life for people around the world – now and for generations to come. The main benefits are: new jobs and economic growth, sustainable development, reduced pollution and increased health, lower energy bills and industrial costs. Energy transition strategies to reach net zero The energy transition is crucial for reducing emissions and achieving a sustainable future. As we gradually shift from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources, it becomes clear that there is no one-size-fits-all solution. Different regions face unique challenges shaped by their policies, energy infrastructure, and available resources. At Siemens Energy, we recognize that effective energy transition strategies are vital not only for mitigating climate change but also for enhancing resilience in our energy systems. By embracing innovative collaborations and new technologies, we can create a zero-carbon energy system that benefits the environment, economy, and quality of life for people worldwide. To navigate this journey towards a new energy era, we have identified five critical focus areas that serve as essential pillars to support and drive the energy transition. By concentrating on these areas, we can accelerate progress, overcome obstacles, and empower our customers to transition to a more sustainable world. These strategies will not only foster new jobs and economic growth but also promote sustainable development, reduce pollution, and improve public health. Ultimately, a successful global energy transition will lead to lower energy bills and industrial costs, ensuring a brighter future for generations to come. At Constellation's natural gas plant in Hillabee, Alabama, USA, a test has proven safe operation on a blend with 38% hydrogen. Explore energy transition strategies Energy transition solutions to shape a new energy landscape In a world of rising energy demand, providing power and heat in a reliable, affordable, and sustainable way requires technologies that can be combined to shape a new energy landscape. Addressing these challenges is imperative for the energy sector and energy-intensive industries to achieve decarbonization and contribute to global climate goals. It's a complex journey. But our comprehensive products, solutions, and services are helping our customers make progress every day. From increased energy efficiency to low-carbon power and heat generation, all the way to transmission grids with a minimized carbon footprint and strategies to decarbonize hard-to-abate industries, discover our innovative energy transition solutions – and start your journey to a sustainable future today. The gigawatt electrolyzer plant in Berlin is the first in the world to be highly automated with robotics and digitalization. Explore energy transition solutions Innovating energy transition technology together More than 107 countries accounting for 82 percent of all greenhouse gases have adopted net-zero pledges in law, policy or strategies. The energy transition is an immense task and everyone has a role to play in making it a reality. It starts with being transparent about climate contributions, which creates accountability and helps all of us make more informed decisions. But it doesn’t end there. Businesses need to keep innovating clean technologies and develop new models for facilitating and trading clean energy, while politics needs to work on local, national and international levels to deliver the appropriate frameworks for making those technologies feasible and viable. We’re doing our part, but decarbonization will only succeed if we work together. And it isn’t just about how we generate power: From the marine sector to hydrogen production, from eFuels to heavy industries, find out how we’re collaborating with countless companies around the world to innovate the energy transition. World's first large-scale commercial eMethanol production facility is being built in Kassø, Denmark. Explore energy transition technologies Our energy transition consulting services The energy transition is a complex challenge. There isn’t a one-size-fits-all solution and each country and region are at different points in the journey. As a global leader in the energy sector, our energy transition consulting services can help customers in a range of businesses or sectors to find the best solution, tailored to meet specific needs. We offer decarbonization strategies, asset performance management, and energy efficiency solutions to optimize savings. Our expertise includes demand response and energy storage for better load management and grid stability . We also implement strong cybersecurity measures to protect critical infrastructure and data in the digital energy landscape. The ‘Trailblazer’ lighthouse project for renewable hydrogen will help the industry and mobility sectors’ transition towards a sustainable future. Discover our energy transition consulting Bridging the investment gap: The key to achieving a successful energy transition The most important element of any energy transition strategy is ensuring the investment gap can be bridged. In 2023, around €3 trillion was invested in energy globally, with €2 trillion directed towards clean energy. These investments enable the development of new technologies, infrastructure, and manufacturing capacities. Net zero is a challenge, but the world is making progress and substantially larger investments will help us reach our goal. New white paper: Financing the energy transition: Meeting a rapidly evolving electricity demand This World Economic Forum white paper highlights how the success of the global energy transition depends on three key factors: adopting a global perspective, developing innovative financing mechanisms, and addressing the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. Download white paper Read more Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition 5 min read Morrow Repower Project, USA: Forward-thinking power generation July 2, 2024 8 min read Investing in grids to accelerate the energy transition See all stories Read more May 8, 2025 Munich Second Quarter Results FY 2025 May 8, 2025 Munich Earnings Release Q2 FY 2025: Outlook raised after strong first half year results, especially in the second quarter – focus on profitable growth See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025