Collaborating with Siemens Energy Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Collaboration How to collaborate innovatively with us? Your path towards becoming a Siemens Energy supplier​ We currently work with more than 25,000 suppliers worldwide and continue to expand our supplier base to manage our total procurement volume of approximately €16 billion. As quality, availability, productivity, and digitalization along our entire supply chain are essential, we select our suppliers with great care. We welcome new suppliers, intend to develop further, and explore new paths together. What are we looking for? Partners who share our values and are among the best and most innovative on the market. Together with us, you can make a decisive contribution to the energy transition. Are you interested? Contact us Our procurement department will organize the onboarding process together with you. Registration Integration Specification This process is conducted via our standardized company-wide IT application SAP Ariba . In a first step, you should provide all relevant information and commit to adhere to our standards and principles for sustainability in the supply chain, as documented in our Code of Conduct . Depending on the product or service you offer, you will need to complete and pass the appropriate qualification modules. These include the Sustainability Self-Assessment (SSA) questionnaire and additional modules on health and safety as well as cybersecurity. To become part of us as quickly and efficiently as possible, smooth integration is essential. We place high demands on your integration into our product and project lifecycles because we expect from you to deliver the same quality standards that our customers expect from us. This includes, for example, the sustainable avoidance of quality risks and deviation costs, the promotion of innovation, digitalization, and continuous improvement. If you meet all these requirements, you will be activated in the system and can deliver your products or services. In a separate selection process, we focus on our top performers:  suppliers whose strategy and values align with ours and who help us evolve together. This is why we regularly evaluate our existing suppliers based on standardized criteria such as quality of cooperation, good operational capabilities, progress in sustainability, or a successful business model. As preferred suppliers or strategic partners you have the possibility to work closely with us in the early concept or development phase of new products. innovations or project solutions. Are you interested in innovating with us? Explore the interactive image by clicking on the dots to discover more about start-ups, supplier innovation, universities, divisions, global chapters, and our innovation hub. Dive into each section to learn how we are driving forward-thinking solutions and collaborations. How to innovate with us? To support our commitment to sustainable, reliable, and affordable energy systems, we actively seek collaboration with suppliers, universities, startups, and inventors. Our focus is on delivering impact within the parameters of our innovation strategy. The goal is to optimally utilize our regional partnering ecosystems with partnerships that deliver different capabilities tailored to regional needs. We want to move fast to assess the value of innovative solutions from our partners. By doing this, we can create a mutually beneficial ecosystem where technologies with the greatest potential for the energy transition can flourish. Begin your innovation journey with us. You can submit your innovative proposal to us by clicking the below standing button. Click here to innovate with us If you would like to introduce yourself as a new supplier without an innovative proposal, please use the button for self-nomination. Supplier self-nomination (excluding innovation) Why innovate with us: unlock your full potential! Enhance your capabilities with our expertise and resources By partnering with us, you gain access to our specialized knowledge and resources, empowering you to tackle complex projects more efficiently and effectively. Expand your market reach and networking opportunities Leverage our established market presence and extensive network to enter new markets and connect with potential clients and stakeholders that were previously out of reach. Drive innovation and growth together Collaborate with us to co-develop cutting-edge solutions and technologies. This partnership not only benefits your immediate projects but also positions you for long-term strategic success and industry leadership. Frequently asked questions How does the innovation process work at Siemens Energy? Our innovation process at Siemens Energy is both systematic and creative. We focus on delivering impact through research and development and collaboration with partners. Our goal is to move fast to assess the value of innovative solutions in order to turn them into reality. What will happen after I have submitted my information? You should immediately receive an email confirming a successful submission. Then within 14 days, you will receive additional information about the next steps. How is my intellectual property protected? Initially, please don't submit any information that is not yet protected in case it is patentable. Instead, please include only non-confidential and non-iIntellectual property relevant information in your description. If there is an opportunity for collaboration, we will conclude a Non-Disclosure Agreement before exchanging confidential information. Document overview for your individual needs Code of Conduct (English) PDF (129 KB) Download Code of Conduct (Deutsch) PDF (131 KB) Download Sustainability in Supply Chain Brochure PDF (16 MB) Download Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy PDF (161 KB) Download Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy Suppliers, Section “Management System for environmental Protection” PDF (165 KB) Download Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy Suppliers, Section “Management System for occupational Health and Safety” PDF (230 KB) Download Bestellbedingungen Deutsches Recht PDF (47 KB) Download Conditions of Purchase German Law PDF (46 KB) Download Conditions of Purchase for Services through external Providers German Law PDF (122 KB) Download Bestellbedingungen für Werk- und Dienstleistungen durch Fremdfirmen Deutsches Recht PDF (112 KB) Download Conditions of Purchase, Swiss Law PDF (52 KB) Download Bestellbedingungen, Schweizer Recht PDF (55 KB) Download Quality and EHS Principles for Siemens Energy Suppliers PDF (225 KB) Download Annex 1 – PPQ Elements Definition and Supplier Information PDF (233 KB) Download Annex 2 – Quality and EHS Principles for Siemens Energy Suppliers NC Report DOCX (35 KB) Download Annex 3 – Quality and EHS Principles for Siemens Energy Suppliers 8D Report DOCX (52 KB) Download Annex 4 – Quality and EHS Principles for Siemens Energy Suppliers Change Notification XLSX (33 KB) Download Global logistics specifications – shipping instructions Siemens Energy has nominated freight forwarders for transport logistics based on E* and F* Incoterms®. For correct routing, please use the transport order tool “ILoP” or follow the routing instructions stated on the purchase order. Shipments from North American suppliers on purchase orders issued from Siemens Energy North America must be booked in “Mercury Gate”.  In case of questions, please contact the buyer on the purchase order to obtain routing instructions. Related content Document pool Supplier portal Supply chain finance Sustainability in the supply chain Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025