Siemens Energy SAP ARIBA Implementation Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy SAP ARIBA Implementation Siemens Energy is executing on its Vision. A major focus of this Vision is the strategy of digitalization across all parts of our business. Digitalization is fundamentally transforming the value chain and offers major opportunities for all parties. It helps us automate order processing, achieve speed, end-to-end visibility, remove manual errors while improving quality and efficiency. Digitalization is not just a project, for us in Siemens energy it has become a part of our strategy. We consistently pursue our goal of driving ahead our digitalization initiatives. We continuously seek to make our procurement processes simpler and more efficient not only for us, but for you as our supplier partners as well. From mid-2022 onwards, Siemens Energy has decided to use a new and innovative solution SAP ARIBA to continue its collaboration with you. Key Facts Benefits Manuals & Videos Support We are leaving behind SCM Star for the implementation of SAP ARIBA, our new all-in-one suite for both strategic and indirect procurement, to create a more simplified system landscape for both of us, Siemens Energy and our suppliers. We proceed step-by-step with the implementation of ARIBA, starting in June 2022. As one of our suppliers there is no need to take an active step from your side. Our teams are working in the background on registering you as suppliers on ARIBA and migrating all the data. As soon as there are concrete steps to be taken by you, you will be contacted via E-Mail or your usual communication channel with us and will receive further  instructions. Please visit this website regularly for further information and news about our ARIBA implementation, as we will update and extend the content here on a regular basis. Letter of Barbara Buttinger, Senior Vice President of Strategic Procurement, Siemens Energy PDF (337 KB) Download The new intuitive and user-friendly design of ARIBA provides easier handling of all source-to-contract-activities. Contract negotiations and price inquiries will all be available in just one platform and especially the RFQ process in ARIBA simplifies our collaboration and makes both of us more time-efficient No more system changing between different platforms like (SCM Star or your E-Mail provider) in general – ARIBA is our single point of truth. On-demand data availability, increased data transparency and simplified processes empower us internally but also you as a supplier to fully utilize the data and make informed decisions for example through accurate pricing. As part of our ARIBA implementation, you will have the chance to become a part of the SAP Business network. Registering on the network provides you as suppliers with access to a network of high-volume buying organizations that can download the supplier’s product and service catalogs and decide which products to purchase. Many of you already have access to this network and can therefore simply register with your already existing account. Supplier quick guide on the procurement tool SAP ARIBA SAP ARIBA SE Supplier Info Deck EN PDF (1 MB) Download SAP ARIBA SE Supplier Info Deck DE PDF (1 MB) Download SAP ARIBA SE Supplier Info Deck CN PDF (1 MB) Download SAP ARIBA SE Supplier Info Deck ES PDF (1 MB) Download SAP ARIBA SE Supplier Info Deck FR PDF (1 MB) Download We are currently setting up the SE ARIBA supplier manuals with a detailed step-by-step guidance through the different processes. SE ARIBA Supplier Manuals You can find the first manuals for your registration, qualification and also how to answer on an RfP, eAuctions (English/Dutch) and Sealed Bid here. We will publish further manuals for you continuously. English Supplier Registration and Log-in to ARIBA PDF (1 MB) Download Supplier Qualification Process in ARIBA PDF (1 MB) Download Answering on an RfP PDF (3 MB) Download Participating at an English Auction PDF (3 MB) Download Participating at a Dutch Auction PDF (3 MB) Download Participating at a Sealed Bid PDF (3 MB) Download Supplier Negotiation PDF (4 MB) Download Electronic Signature PDF (1 MB) Download Deutsch Lieferanten Registrierung und Log-in zu ARIBA PDF (1 MB) Download Lieferanten Qualifizierungs prozess in ARIBA PDF (1 MB) Download Auf einen RfP antworten PDF (3 MB) Download An einer Englischen Auktion teilnehmen PDF (3 MB) Download An einer Holländischen Auktion teilnehmen PDF (3 MB) Download An einem Sealed Bid teilnehmen PDF (3 MB) Download Vertragsverhandlungen PDF (4 MB) Download Elektronische Unterschrift PDF (1 MB) Download 普通 供应商注册及登录ARIBA 手册(中文) PDF (1 MB) Download 供应商在ARIBA中进行资格认证(中文) PDF (2 MB) Download 回复询价(RfP) PDF (3 MB) Download 供应商手册: 英式竞拍 PDF (3 MB) Download 供应商手册: 荷兰式竞拍 PDF (3 MB) Download 供应商手册: 封闭式竞拍 PDF (3 MB) Download 供应商手册: 合同谈判 PDF (4 MB) Download 供应商手册 – 电子签名 PDF (1 MB) Download Español Registro de proveedores y acceso a ARIBA PDF (1 MB) Download Proceso de calificación de proveedores en ARIBA PDF (1 MB) Download Responder a una solicitud de propuesta PDF (3 MB) Download Participar en una subasta inglesa PDF (3 MB) Download Participar en una subasta neerlandés PDF (3 MB) Download Participar en una licitación cerrada PDF (3 MB) Download Negociación de contratos PDF (4 MB) Download Firma digital PDF (1 MB) Download Français Enregistrement du fournisseur et connextion à ARIBA PDF (1 MB) Download Processus de qualification des fournisseurs dans ARIBA PDF (1 MB) Download Répondre à une demande de proposition PDF (3 MB) Download Participer à une vente aux enchères en anglais PDF (3 MB) Download Participer à une vente aux enchères hollandaise PDF (3 MB) Download Participer à une offer scellée PDF (3 MB) Download Négociation de contrat PDF (4 MB) Download Signature électronique PDF (1 MB) Download Čeština Dodavatelský manuál : 1. Registrace PDF (2 MB) Download Dodavatelský manuál : 2. Kvalifikace PDF (2 MB) Download SE ARIBA Video Nuggets (English language only) In addition to the manuals there are also SE ARIBA supplier video nuggets with a guidance on selected processes available for you. You can find here video nuggets regarding the Sourcing process (how you answer on an RfP and how to participate at eAuctions). How to answer on an RfP MP4 (140 MB) Download How to participate at an eAuction MP4 (176 MB) Download Our SE ARIBA Support is available via E-Mail and the support hotline ARIBA Support Hotline: +49 3221 2249865 (available from 08.00 am - 5.00 pm CET) ariba.onboarding.support@siemens-energy.com E2E Ariba Implementation Program Frequently Asked Questions Get your questions answered How does the new solution differ from the previous one? We are leaving behind SCM Star for the implementation of SAP ARIBA, our new all-in-one suite for both strategic and indirect procurement, to create a more simplified system landscape for both of us, Siemens Energy and our suppliers. As part of the ARIBA implementation, we have also optimized our qualification process according to newest industry standards. We will proceed step by step with the new qualification process and will inform you in time prior to your own qualification. What do I have to do and when? Currently, there is no need to take an active step from your side. Our teams are working in the background on registering you as suppliers on ARIBA and migrating all the data. As soon as there are concrete steps to be taken by you, you will receive an E-Mail with further instructions. Please be aware that the sender of the E-Mail might have an automatically generated E-Mail address like s4system-prodeu+Siemens-Energy.Doc996077591@eusmtp.ariba.com. To inform you prior to this E-Mail and give you detailed instructions on what to do we are publishing SE Supplier Manuals here on the website under the “Manuals” tab - these are constantly updated and expanded by us. Can I only contact my purchaser via the portal? Will all communication be digital in the future? Of course, you can still contact us personally, especially when it comes to negotiations, we even want to intensify our personal contact with you. However, when it comes to communicating about placing orders, it makes more sense to communicate via the system from July 2022 on. You have the additional advantage that you can make changes to your data at any time and from anywhere. If my company doesn't have an ARIBA account yet, how do I get one? You will receive an E-mail from Siemens Energy for registration with ARIBA. Our manuals on this website will give you a step-by-step guidance on what you need to do once you receive this E-Mail. Will ARIBA replace the previous SCM Star system? Yes, ARIBA will completely replace SCM Star as part of our spin-off from Siemens. We have had issues with ARIBA in the past… We are convinced that ARIBA is a leading system with high penetration in our industry and we see the implementation of ARIBA, our new all-in-one suite for both strategic and indirect procurement, as an opportunity to harmonize all source-to-contract processes. But please tell us about your concerns. We expect that our project team will be able to solve specific problems. Will we be able to take part in all our activities, like contract negotiations and RfQ’s, during the implementation? Don't worry though, during the whole process you will always be able to participate in all of our source-to-contract activities. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025