Siemens Energy to supply Rolls-Royce with turbines for Small Modular Reactors (SMR) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy to supply Rolls-Royce with turbines for Small Modular Reactors (SMR) Press release February 28, 2025 Berlin Siemens Energy and Rolls-Royce SMR have entered into a partnership agreement that is expected to lead to the exclusive supply of conventional technology for future Small Modular Reactors (SMR). Under this agreement, Siemens Energy is to be the sole supplier of steam turbines, generators, and other auxiliary systems for the British manufacturer's planned Generation 3+ modular nuclear power plants. The final contract, detailing all specifics, is expected to be completed by the end of 2025. SMRs are considered a promising technology for the future of nuclear energy and a key factor in the success of the energy transition. They are more compact, safer, and more cost-efficient than conventional nuclear power plants. Rolls-Royce SMR is currently developing a "mini nuclear power plant" that can be operational much faster than traditionally built plants, thanks to its standardized, modular design. Rolls-Royce SMR's pressurized water reactors are designed to achieve an electrical output of up to 470 megawatts, enough to supply approximately 1.1 million households with electricity. For decades, Siemens Energy has been a supplier and service provider of components for the so-called "power island," the non-nuclear part of the power plant. The company's solutions for nuclear power plants include steam turbines and generators with outputs ranging from 20 MW to 1,900 MW, as well as operational control technology and control systems. Karim Amin, a member of the Siemens Energy Executive Board, commented: "We are currently experiencing a global renaissance of nuclear energy. Numerous countries are turning to nuclear technology to produce low-emission electricity, and small modular reactors will play a key role in this. Siemens Energy brings decades of experience in conventional equipment, while Rolls-Royce has the necessary implementation expertise. This perfect symbiosis enables us to jointly shape the future of energy supply. We are very pleased to be working with Rolls-Royce SMR on this exciting project." Are you curious about what "Small Modular Reactors" actually are and how they differ from conventional nuclear power plants? Access our factsheet and let one of our experts explain what SMRs really are. More information can be found in our Factsheet - Small Medium Reactors (SMR) Factsheet February 28, 2025 PDF (110 KB) Download What are Small Modular Reactors? Our expert Felix Aschendorf provides answers. Contact Simon Greenhalgh Press Spokesperson Europe simon.greenhalgh@siemens-energy.com +44 7921 241 835 Contact Sabine Sill Press Spokesperson Gas Services sabine.sill@siemens-energy.com +49 173 7196783 Download Press Release Siemens Energy to supply Rolls-Royce with turbines for Small Modular Reactors (SMR) February 28, 2025 PDF (93 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €34.5 billion in fiscal year 2024. Read more Read less Read more February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply February 16, 2024 Berlin Think big! Large heat pumps for climate-neutral district heating networks November 8, 2023 Berlin Siemens Energy and Air Liquide pave the way for the ramp-up of the hydrogen economy with new gigawatt factory for electrolyzers See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025