Convenience Translation  
 
1  
Declaration of Conformity by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of 
Siemens Energy AG with the German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to Sec-
tion 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act  
 
Siemens Energy AG complies with all the recommendations of the Government Commis-
sion on the German Corporate Governance Code in the version dated April 28, 2022 
(“Code”), published by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the official section of the Federal 
Gazette (Bundesanzeiger), and will co ntinue to comply with them in the future, with the 
following exceptions:  
• Recommendations C.4 and C.5 are not complied with. According to recommenda-
tion C.4, a Supervisory Board member who is not a member of any Executive 
Board of a listed company shall not accept more than five Supervisory Board ma n-
dates at non -group listed companies or comparable functions, with an appointment 
as chair of a Supervisory Board being counted twice. According to recommenda-
tion C.5, members of the Executive Board of a listed company shall not accept 
more than two Supervi sory Board mandates in non -group listed companies or 
comparable functions, and shall not serve as the chair of a Supervisory Board  in a 
non-group listed company.  
Rather than regarding the recommended maximum number of mandates for Ex-
ecutive Board and Supervisory Board members as a fixed upper limit, a judgment 
on whether the number of relevant mandates is appropriate as defined by the Code 
should be made on a case -by-case basis. This assessment should consider the 
anticipated workload arising from the accepted mandates, which may differ from 
case to case.  
• The guarantee pledged by the Federal Republic of Germany in December 2023 
(the government guarantee ) precludes variable compensation for the members of 
the Executive Board for the fiscal years between 2024 and 2026, provided that 
guarantees secured by the government guarantee are issued within these fiscal 
years. Accordingly, no variable compensation wi thin the meaning of Section G of 
the Code is granted for the respective fiscal years.  
Since submission of the last Declaration of Conformity in July 2024, Siemens Energy AG 
has complied with all the recommendations of the Code, with the aforementioned excep-
tions, and with exception of a deviation from Recommendation C.2:  
• As per recommendation C.2,  an age limit shall be specified for members of the 
Supervisory Board and disclosed in the Corporate Governance Statement.  
The deviation has ceased to apply. By resolution of September 25, 2024, the  
Supervisory Board introduced a regular age limit , which is anchored in the Bylaws 
Convenience Translation  
 
2 of the Supervisory Board and in the objectives for Supervisory Board ’s composi-
tion, and which is published in the Corporate Governance Declaration.  
 
Munich, September 2024  
 
Siemens Energy AG  
The Executive Board   The Supervisory Board  
 