 
Declaration of Conformity by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of 
Siemens Energy AG with the German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to Sec-
tion 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act  
 
Since submission of the last Declaration of Conformity in September 2022, Siemens En-
ergy AG has complied with all the recommendations of the Government Commission on 
the German Corporate Governance Code in the version dated April 28, 2022 (“2022 
Code”), pu blished by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the official section of the Federal 
Gazette (Bundesanzeiger), and will continue to comply with them in the future, with the 
following exceptions:  
• Recommendations C.4 and C.5 are not complied with. According to  recommenda-
tion C.4, a Supervisory Board member who is not a member of any Executive 
Board of a listed company shall not accept more than five Supervisory Board ma n-
dates at non -group listed companies or comparable functions, with an appointment 
as chair of  a Supervisory Board being counted twice. According to recommenda-
tion C.5, members of the Executive Board of a listed company shall not accept 
more than two Supervisory Board mandates in non -group listed companies or 
comparable functions, and shall not ser ve as the chair of a Supervisory Board  in a 
non-group listed company.  
Rather than regarding the recommended maximum number of mandates for Ex-
ecutive Board and Supervisory Board members as a fixed upper limit, a judgment 
on whether the number of relevant ma ndates is appropriate as defined by the Code 
should be made on a case -by-case basis. This assessment should consider the 
anticipated workload arising from the accepted mandates, which may differ from 
case to case.  
• Recommendation C.2 is not complied with. As per recommendation C.2,  an age 
limit shall be specified for members of the Supervisory Board and disclosed in the 
Corporate Governance Statement.  
The individual suitability of a particular candidate depends on numerous factors 
that are taken into account on a case -by-case basis. It is the Supervisory Board’s 
opinion that a candidate’s age is not, per se, a criterion that would rule out the 
candidate’s suitability.  Further, the Supervisory Board believes that highly experi-
enced members contribute to the Board’s diversity.  
Munich, September 202 3 
Siemens Energy AG  
The Executive Board   The Supervisory Board  