Convenience Translation  
 
 
 Declaration by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy 
AG with the German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to Section 161 of the 
German Stock Corporation Act  
 
Siemens Energy AG shares have been listed on the stock exchange since September 
25, 2020.  As of this date, Siemens Energy AG ceased to be a part of the Siemens Group 
managed by Siemens A ktiengesellschaft  and became a legally independent, publicly 
traded stock corporation to which the recommendations of the Government Commission 
on the German Corporate Governance Code in the version dated December 16, 2019 
(“Code”), published by the Federal Ministry of Justice and Consumer Protection in the 
official section of the Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger) apply.  
The Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG currently comprises ten shareholder rep-
resentatives. The Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG in the composition required 
by the German Codetermination Act will only be constituted once the sanctioning proce-
dure, which was initiated directly on September 25, 2020, is complete; the first meeting 
of the co -determined Supervisory Board is scheduled for early December 2020.  
At the first meeting of the current Supervisory Board on September 29, 2020, in particular 
the bylaws of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory Board were adopted,  and the 
Chairman’s Committee, Audit Committee, and Nominating Committee were formed. At 
the second meeting of the Supervisory Board on November 9, 2020, the resolutions to 
the indep endence of the shareholders representatives, the Declaration of Conformity , the 
objectives (including the competence profile and the diversity concept) for the Supervi-
sory Board and the diversity concept for the Executive Board were adopted.  
Siemens Energy AG thus complies with all recommendations of the Code and will con-
tinue to comply with them in the future, with the following exceptions.  
• According to recommendation B.3, the in itial appointment of members of the Execu-
tive Board shall be for a maximum of three years. Even before Siemens Energy AG 
was listed on the stock exchange, Dr. -Ing. Christian Bruch was appointed to the Ex-
ecutive Board and Chairman of the Executive Board for five years. His individual 
qualifications and experience, particularly those acquired in long -term management 
positions, were taken into account in the decision for the longer appointment period. 
In making this appointment, it was particularly important t o maintain continuity in the 
management of the Company. According to the bylaws of the Supervisory Board 
adopted on September 29, 2020, the initial appointment of members of the Executive 
Board will in future be for a maximum of three years.  
 
2 
 • According to r ecommendation B.2, the Supervisory Board together with the Executive 
Board should ensure long -term succession planning. The Chairman’s Committee of 
the Supervisory Board will deal with the long -term succession planning for the Exec-
utive Board after the con stitution of the co -determined Supervisory Board in Decem-
ber, when the employee representatives can be involved in the planning . Similarly, 
the resolution on the compensation system with the specifications provided for in rec-
ommendation G.1 will be adopted  at the constituent meeting of the co -determined 
Supervisory Board.  The current employment contracts for the members of the  
Executive Board comply with the recommendations of the Code.  
• According to Recommendation D.13, the Supervisory Board shall assess, at regular 
intervals, how effective the Supervisory Board as a whole and its committees fulfil 
their tasks. The Supervisory Board shall report in the Corporate Governance State-
ment if (and how) the self -assessment was conducted. An efficiency review can on ly 
be sensibly carried out once the co -determined Supervisory Board has been consti-
tuted and started its work. The efficiency review is planned for the current fiscal year.  
• Recommendation C.4 states that a Supervisory Board member who is not a member 
of any management board of a listed company shall not accept more than five Su-
pervisory Board mandates at non -group listed companies or comparable functions, 
with an appointment as Chair of the Supervisory Board being counted twice. Accord-
ing to recommendation  C.5, members of the management board of a listed company 
shall not have, in aggregate, more than two Supervisory Board mandates in non -
group listed companies or comparable functions, and shall not accept the Chairman-
ship of a Supervisory Board in a non -group listed company.  
Instead of the recommended maximum number of mandates for the Executive Board 
and the Supervisory Board members as fixed upper limits , cases are to be judged on 
an individual basis as to whether the number of relevant mandates, as defined in the 
Code, is appropriate. This assessment is to consider the expected personal workload 
caused by the accepted mandates, which can differ depending  on the specific man-
dates.  
• According to recommendations C.10 Sentence 1 or D.4 Sentence 1, the Chairman of 
the Supervisory Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and the Chairman of 
the committee that addresses Management Board remuneration  are to be independ-
ent from the Company and the Executive Board.  
 
Prior to the Spin -Off becoming effective, numerous significant business relationships 
existed between Siemens Energy AG and its subsidiaries on the one hand, and the 
companies of the Siemens Group on the other hand due to their joint group affiliation. 
From the Company’s poi nt of view, it is advantageous to make still use of the com-
prehensive knowledge and expertise of Joe Kaeser and Prof essor Dr. Ralf P. Thomas 
 
3 
 as members of the Managing Board of Siemens AG in their prominent position as 
Chairman of the Supervisory Board or Chairman of the Chairman’s Committee deal-
ing with the compensation of the Executive Board and Chairman of the Audit Com-
mittee of Siemens Energy AG, respectively.  
 
Munich, Germany, November 2020  
 
Siemens Energy AG  
 
The Executive Board   The Supervisory Board  
  