MVV Mannheim Heat Pump Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications October 11, 2023 13 min read MVV, Germany: Thousands of homes heated by river heat pump Reference Drive industry decarbonization Transform conventional power Our heat pump uses Rhine water as a heat source and is one of the largest heat pumps in Germany, adding 20MWth to our existing ~1200MWth heat pump fleet. Contact us From Finspong in Sweden to Mannheim in Germany: MVV commissions its first innovative river heat pump The new river heat pump from MVV supplies climate-friendly heat from the Rhine water to around 3,500 households - One of the largest heat pumps of its kind in Europe Read the customer press release (German only) Press release translation Time-lapse of MVV Mannheim heat pump construction, Germany The large-scale heat pump helps MVV to decarbonize district heating in Mannheim Together with MVV we have built a large-scale heat pump plant in Mannheim. It uses river water as a heat source, helping to reduce the use of coal at the GKM plant. The new heat pump is the first step towards the goal of green district heating. MVV and the City of Mannheim is targeting to become CO 2 neutral in the district heating production by 2030. At the Mannheim site, the heat pump uses 7 MWe of electrical power from renewable sources to produce 20 MWt of thermal energy which is used to reheat the district heating return flow up to 99 °C.  From 2023 onwards, the facility is expected to supply heating for 3,500 households and save some 10,000 tonnes of carbon emissions per year. Visit MVV website Visit GKM website The heat pump power plant consists of the following components Basic principle of heat pumps Heat pumps move thermal energy in the opposite direction of spontaneous heat transfer, by absorbing heat from a colder space and releasing it to a warmer one. Heat pumps work like an inverted refrigerator, i.e. the river heat pump extracts a small part of the heat from the outside (here: Rhine water) and releases it again as heating energy for district heating. The Rhine water gets up to 25°C warm in summer and rarely below 5°C in winter. This makes it perfectly suited as a powerful heat source. Learn more about the MVV Mannheim reference in Germany Watch the video District heating for 50,000 households – with heat pump technology from Finspong in Sweden The heart of the heat pump plant is the compressor with gear, electrical motor, heat exchangers, and control system. The reliable heat pump is manufactured in our factory in Finspong, Sweden, and Siemens Energy is responsible for the full installation and commissioning. The technology has been proven for many years. From the ground-breaking ceremony to the final heat pump plant In spring 2022, the next step in our decarbonization journey began with the construction of our 18-metre-long, five-metre-high high-temperature heat pump on the site of the GKM coal-fired power plant. Commercial operation started in October 2023. It is one of five large-scale field trials - called 'Reallabore' in German - for large-scale heat pumps in Germany, using different heat sources such as industrial waste h eat, geothermal or solar energy, river water, the sea, ambient air and others. Project examples and publications A River to Keep Thousands   of Homes Warm (Article) Industrial heat pumps are key to decarbonising heat generation and becoming  independent of fossil imports. In Mannheim, Germany. Read more Large-scale, high-temperature heat pump in district heating network Customer: Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG Solution: Large-scale, high-temperature heat pump of up to 8 MWth Read more Climate-neutral heating and cooling from purified wastewater Customer: Stockholm Exergi Solution: Large high-temperature heat pumps with an installed total heating capacity of 420 MWth Read more Commitment to climate neutrality requires heat transition Customer: Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG Solution: Large-scale, low-temperature heat pump of up to 87 MWth Read more Contact us May 8, 2025 Earnings Release Q2 FY 2025: Outlook raised after strong first half year results, especially in the second quarter – focus on profitable growth April 16, 2025 Ad-hoc: Siemens Energy AG announces preliminary results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2025 and raises its outlook for fiscal year 2025. March 26, 2025 Siemens Gamesa to divest a majority stake of its Indian wind business and enter into strategic partnership agreement with TPG and others February 28, 2025 Siemens Energy to supply Rolls-Royce with turbines for Small Modular Reactors (SMR) February 25, 2025 Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition See all press releases Read more Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025