Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , December  21, 2023  
Change s to Siemens Energy Supervisory Board  
The Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG will propose to  the shareholders at  the Annual 
Shareholders' Meeting on February 26, 2024,  that Prof. Dr Veronika Grimm and Simone Menne be 
newly elected to the Supervisory Board. The two candidates are to succeed the current members  
Prof Dr Ralf P. Thomas and Randy Zwirn, who have announced their intention  to resign a fter the next 
Annual Shareholders' Meeting.  
 
"Ralf Thomas has delivered outstanding service to Siemens Energy. He was not only one of the main 
architects of the spin -off of Siemens Energy, but also shaped governance in the group for years, 
particularly through his work on the Audit Committee. With his many years of experience in the energy 
industry, Randy Zwirn was a tremendous help to the company, especially in the reorganization  of the 
conventional energy businesses," says Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of 
Siemens  Energy. "With Veronika Grimm and Simone Menne, we will gain two outstanding colleagues 
with impressive expertise who will take over  as energy expert and financial expert from the incumbent 
Supervisory Board members . We are looking forward to working with them ." 
 
Ralf Thomas and Randy Zwirn have been members of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy since 
2020.  Veronika Grimm, a proven expert in energy markets and energy market design as well as 
economic issues, is proposed to join the Supervisory Board.  The 52 -year-old professor of Economics at 
Friedrich -Alexander -Universität Erlangen -Nürnberg is a member of the German Council of Economic 
Experts (“Wirtschaftsweise”) and is also a member of the German Government's National Hydrogen 
Council.  She has no comparable m emberships in domestic or foreign supervisory bodies of commercial 
enterprises.  
 
Simone Menne , an experienced executive in finance and economic,  is also proposed to join the 
Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy.  She holds a degree in Business and Economics  and was C hief 
Financial Officer  at Lufthansa AG and a member of the management board at Boehringer Ingelheim 
International GmbH, among others.  She has been President of the Executive Committee of the 
American Chamber of Commerce in Germany since 2021.  The 63 -year-old expert in finance, accounting 
and controlling already holds Superviso ry Board mandates at Deutsche Post AG and Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
Henkel  AG & Co. KGaA as well as corresponding Supervisory Board mandates at Johnson Controls 
International plc, which is listed on the Irish stock exchange, and New York -based Russell Reynolds 
Associates Inc. It is proposed that Simone Menne will succeed  Ralf Thoma s on the Audit Committee.  
 
Under German corporate law, half of the members of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy are 
representatives of the shareholders, the other are representatives of the workforce (co -determination). 
If the shareholders approve these changes , 60% of shareholders will be  represented by female 
Supervisory Board members when the new  Siemens Energy  Supervisory Board  comes into effect . The 
Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy will then consist of 40 % female members.  
 
 
Virtual Annual General Meeting to be publicly broadcast for the first time  
 
The Annual General Meeting scheduled for 26 February 2024 will once again be held virtually. The 
2023  Annual General Meeting approved a corresponding authorization resolution with 91.7% of the 
votes cast. Speeches and questions can be made live via video and do not need to be submitted in 
advance. For the first time, speeches and questions will also be per mitted in English. This is intended to 
take account of the high proportion of international shareholders. In addition, the Annual General 
Meeting will als o be made accessible to non -shareholders for the first time by making it freely available 
online, including the general debate.  
 
In addition to the election of the two new Supervisory Board members, an important item on the 
agenda of the Annual Shareholders' Meeting is the appointment of KPMG as the Group auditor for fiscal 
year 2024. Siemens Energy will also propose to the Annual S hareholders' Meeting that the existing 
capital authorizations be renewed after a capital increase with exclusion of subscription rights was 
carried out in March 2023 to finance the acquisition of the remaining shares in Siemens Gamesa.  
 
The speeches by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the Executive Board at the 
2024 Annual General Meeting will be published online no later than five days before the Annual 
General Meeting. Further information on the Annual Shareholders' Meeting can be found in the notice 
of the Annual Shareholders' Meeting published on December 21,2023 , in the German Federal Gazette 
(Bundesanzeiger)  and on the Siemens Energy website.  
 
  
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact for journalists  
Tim Proll -Gerwe  
Phone:  +49 (0)1522 283 5652  
E-mail: tim.proll -gerwe@siemens -energy.com  
 
 
You can find a license -free photo of Prof. Dr. Veronika Grimm here . 
 
You can find a license -free photo of Simone Menne here . 
 
 
This press release and is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on X at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and 
transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam 
turbines, hybrid power plants opera ted with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An 
estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy 
employs around 96,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue  
of €31 billion in fiscal year 2023 . www.siemens -energy.com  
  