1 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                     
 
Munich, December 19, 2022  
 
Dear Shareholders,   
This year, the German  legislator has created a reliable legal framework  that provides 
a decent  alternative to a physical shareholders’ meeting. Unlike the limited virtual 
shareholders’ meetings held during the past two years on the basis of special 
pandemi c provisions, the new virtual format will address important shareholders’ rights.  
At the same time, the benefits of a virtual event are retained:  
• The active participation of many shareholders, including international ones  
• Reduced travel expenses and lower CO 2 emissions  
• Lower event costs  
As the new law provides the necessary legal certainty for a virtual shareholders’ 
meeting and supports the use of  digital technology, it takes into account the interests 
of companies and shareholders alike.  
For the aforementioned reasons and in light of a still dynamic COVID -19 presence , the 
Executive Board and Supervisory Board decided in December that the Annual 
Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens Energy AG on February 7, 2023, will be held in the 
new virtual format.  
Our focus will be on ensuring a truly interactive dialog with you that you know from 
face-to-face events.  You will therefore be able to address your statements, questions 
and motions to us “live” by way of video communication .  
To keep the flexibility for future annual shareholders’ meeting s, we are proposing a 
corresponding amendment to the Articles of Associ ation to allow us to use the option 
of a virtual annual shareholders’ meeting . However, the legally permitted authorization 
period of five years will not be exploited in full but restricted to two years instead. So, 
we will learn from the experiences made and review our proposals for the future, then.  Joe Kaeser  
Chairman of the Supervisory Board  
Siemens Energy AG  
 Dr. Christian Bruch  
Chief Executive Officer  
Siemens Energy AG  

2 
 Siemens Energy operated in a challenging environment during fiscal 2022. 
Nevertheless, Gas and Power ( GP) delivered a solid performance characterized by 
strong orders and increased profitability year -over-year, demonstrating business 
resilience. However, the overall performance of Siemens Energy was held back by the 
negative development at Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy ( SGRE ). Decisive 
actions have been taken to fix this long -term very attractive business in due time.  
In the current fiscal year, Siemens Energy is aiming for the  integration of SGRE. This 
will enable Siemens Energy and SGRE to leverage their joint potential and m ake better 
use of the opportunities harbored by the global energy markets. The first step will be 
to simplify existing processes and establish  more efficient  governance structures. In 
the midterm, the company strategy will emphasize  the benefits of a fully  integrated 
energy company  ensuring a sustainable energy transformation aiming at attractive 
shareholder returns.  
To achieve these objectives, Siemens Energy made a voluntary cash tender offer for 
all outstanding shares in SGRE  in May 202 2. On December 19, the Spanish stock 
exchange regulator CNMV confirmed an acceptance rate of 77.88%, so that Siemens 
Energy held 92.72% of SGRE shares at that time.  
The financing of the transaction, including our intention to raise up to €2.5  billion with 
equity or equity -like instruments, is designed to support this key objective . We already 
placed a mandatory convertible bond with a nominal value of €960  million on 
September 6 , 2022 . In the future, too, we must be able to act flexibly and in line with 
the prevailing market situation when it comes to the further financing of the transaction 
and other financing requirements  at Siemens Energy . For this reason, we ask you to 
approve those items on the agenda that will authorize management to take the 
necessary  capital measures.  
In the past fiscal year, the company reduced hierarchies and established  clearer 
responsibilities. Since October 1, 2022, Siemens Energy has been operating in a new 
structure and now reports as four business areas:  
• Gas Services  
• Grid Technologies  
• Transformation of Industry  
• Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy  
The new organizational model also ensures greater transparency , higher speed and  is 
fostering responsibility and accountability. The new organization is aimed at making 
Siemens Energy  a strong, resilient and profitable company , which is a benchmark in 
the space.  
As of the  new fiscal year, the Executive Board was strengthened  by two new members. 
Anne -Laure Parrical de Chammard is responsible for the Transformation of Industry 
business area, which mainly focuses on reducing energy consumption and CO 2 
emissions in industrial processes. Vinod Philip, formerly Head of Strategy and Chief 
Technology Officer, has been appointed as the Executive Board member responsible 
for Global Functions (in cluding IT, Procurement and Innovation). Both of them are 
3 
 international managers and e mpathic leaders with excellent knowledge of the energy 
business.  
 
We look forward to continuing our dialog ue with you.  
  
Joe Kaeser                                                                                Dr. Christian Bruch  
Chairman of the Supervisory Board                                          Chief Executive Officer  
 
 
