Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Berlin/Munich , September  21, 2022  
Siemens Energy AG  to propose KPMG as 
independent auditor  
Siemens Energy AG intends to appoint KPMG as independent auditor for the annual and 
consolidated financial statements starting with fiscal year 2024. The company plans to submit a 
corresponding proposal to be voted on by its shareholders at the Annual Gene ral Meeting for fiscal 
year 2024. This has been approved by the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG in the meeting 
on September 2 1st based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.  
 
Laurence Mulliez, Chairwoman of the Audit Committee of Siemens Ener gy AG’s Supervisory Board: 
“KPMG submitted an attractive offer with a convincing audit approach and a focus on digitalization 
and service quality. Also, the team KPMG selected for the audit of Siemens Energy AG is 
characterized by a high degree of expertis e, experience, and industry know -how”.  
 
The recommendation was preceded by a selection procedure in accordance with the respective 
European regulations. The audit mandate may be renewed annually by the shareholders' meeting 
without a new tender process. For fiscal year 2034 at the latest a new tender process will be 
required.  
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Tim Proll -Gerwe   
Phone:  +49 (0)152 2283 5652  
E-mail:  tim.proll -gerwe@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press . 
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and service s, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydro gen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energie s. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €28.5  billion in fiscal year 2021 . 
www.siemens -energy.com . 