 
SPEECH FOR  THE  
ANNUAL SHAREHOLDERS ’ MEETING 2023  
OF SIEMENS ENERGY AG  
Dr. Christian Bruch  
President and Chief Executive Officer   
of Siemens Energy AG  
Munich , February 7, 2023  
 
 
 
 
 
The report presented at the Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting will be delivered orally in 
German and may also deviate in its content from this version published in advance, in 
particular to take account of developments that have occurred in the meantime.  
 
The report  as orally delivered in German takes precedence . 
 
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 2 of 14 2022 – THE WORLD IN TRANSITION  
Light and Shadow – Political, Economic and Social Change  
 
Dear Shareholders,  
Ladies and Gentlemen,  
2022 was a stormy year . Politically, economically and socially.  
February 24, 2022, fundamentally changed the world. Though it had been u nimaginable to 
many, on that day war returned to Europe . The war brought into focus a factor that Europe 
had previously taken for granted: the availability of energy. Energy is the bas is for 
development and progress. In 2022, we experienced how fragile this foundation can be. 
Energy has been and continues to be used as a weapon . This endangers the well -being of 
hundreds of millions of people.  
The war in Ukraine has led to massive econom ic dislocations. It challenge s entire 
economies, companies and us as citizens. In Germany alone, energy prices rose by around 
43 percent from October 2021 to October 2022. And all this in an environment in which the 
inflation rate was also at a historically high level in other areas.  
But, in every crisis , there is also an opportunity . The year 2022 has also shown  that p olitics 
and business can achieve a lot together. Together, we are working on solutions to achieve 
energy security and drive forward the energy transition. Europe is redefining its energy 
strategy . The United States is accelerating the energy transition wit h the Inflation Reduction 
Act. In other regions, too, the energy transition represents a major investment program.  
2022 was also the year that many countries emerged from the pandemic. Still, coronavirus 
fundamentally changed our lives and the way we coll aborate virtually.  
At the same time, 2022 further intensifi ed climate change . Forest fires, droughts and floods 
were on the agenda almost everywhere.  
And with this came the realization  that we must act now to achieve the 1.5 -degree target . To 
do this, we need to reduce emissions by 45 percent by 2030 compared to 2019 . There is 
also a lot to do here in 2023.  
 
  
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 3 of 14 Challenging – Our Market Environment in Fiscal Year 2022  
What did the past fiscal year mean for us as a company? The consequences of war, the 
pandemic and climate change also determined our day-to-day business : 
• Take Russia, for example: Siemens and Siemens Energy have a 150 -year history with 
Russia. Divesting this business was a painful decision . Despite the difficult boundary 
conditions, we were able to successfully sell our transformer and gas turbine businesses 
in Russia.  
• Or consider supply chains : Tight supply chains around the world were further strained 
by the impact of the war. In  addition, we had to temporarily close some of our plants in 
China during the lockdown. This particularly affected components for power grids . 
Nevertheless , we were able to keep many things stable. Our strategy of regionalizing and 
broadening supply chains helped . We secured prices and availability with long -term 
contracts. In this way, we were able to almost offset the rise in raw material prices. In 
total, this amounted to around 800 million euros.  
• Take inflation as an example : Handling long -running projects at competitive prices is an 
immense challenge when inflation rates are high. And not just for us. For our suppliers as 
well. This has also had a negative impact on our profitability.   
The three examples show : The market environment in 2022 was challenging for us .  
 
WEATHERPROOF – STABILIZ ING SIEMENS ENERGY  
Consistent – Three Parameters  in Fiscal Year  2022  
It is precisely in times like these that we need to weatherproof the company. We have used 
fiscal year 2022 for this purpose.  
1. We made our business at Gas and Power profitable again.  We improved internal 
processes. We streamlined our portfolio.  And we reduced costs. Of the savings of 800 
million euros planned by fiscal year  2023, we were already able to realize more than 5 00 
million euros by the end of the past fiscal year.  
As a result of all this , I am proud to say that , in a fiscal year full of challenges, Gas and 
Power has delivered solid results. Gas and Power delivered what we promised . 
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 4 of 14 2. We have reorganized our company . The new organization has been in place since 
October 1, 2022. With it , we have increased the transparenc y of our company vis-à-vis 
the capital market. We have created clear responsibilities for our Business Areas. And we 
have significantly reduced the number of hierarchical levels. This structure allows us to 
respond more flexibly and quickly to market changes.  This makes us stronger . At the 
same time, these changes also meant an enormous effort for our employees . After all, no 
business unit was lef t untouched by them. I would therefore like to thank our employees 
wholeheartedly for their personal commitment.  
3. We’ve been working hard to improve the performance of Siemens Gamesa Renewable 
Energy (SGRE) , in which we hold a majority stake . We want to stabilize the business 
and make it profitable again. There were challenges with the market launch of a new 
onshore  wind turbine . In addition, higher raw material prices and pressure on logistics 
chains weighed on the company . As a result, SGRE , and thus we as Siemens Energy , 
had to adjust our revenue and earnings forecast for fiscal year  2022 . In January 2023, 
there was another profit warning. More on this later.  
We have responded to this by making a new appointment to the position of Chief 
Exec utive Officer . Jochen Eickholt, a proven restructuring expert , took office on March 1, 
2022. Together with his team, he immediately began to stabilize the business. The 
aforementioned measures at Gas and Power served as an important blueprint . SGRE 
announced a new platform strategy for its onshore and offshore business es. 
Standardized components and modules for onshore and offshore wind turbines are to 
reduce costs . At the same time, quality and delivery reliability are to increase . The 
company must become more competitive overall . A unified organization for 
manufacturing  and purchasing will improve the setup and create better customer 
interfaces. The terms of new customer and supplier  contracts have improved 
significantly. We expect this to bring clear progress in the future.  
 
Incentive – Share Price, Finance and Sustainability   
Share price performance  
However, it is also true that we are not satisfied with the  performance of our  share  price . 
The share price almost halved from the first to the last day of fiscal year  2022. Admittedly, 
the DAX also deteriorated by around 20 percent in the same period. Nevertheless, there is 
nothing to sugarcoat. This development affects all of you, dear shareholders.  
This was due to repeated profit warnings at SGRE – most recently just a few weeks ago . As 
a result, profit expectations fell.  
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 5 of 14 The good news is that the measures we have taken are working . The financial market 
understands the relevance of Siemens Energy in the energy transition. The share price has 
recovered despite the recent profit warning.  
We will continue to do everything in our power to improve the operating performance of our 
company.  
 
Financial results  
First, let’s take a look at our figures for fiscal year  2022 . Let’s start with the key financial 
figures:  
• We increased order intake from 33 billion  euros  to 38 billion euros last year. This 
gives us an order backlog of 97 billion euros at the end of the fiscal year . That is 13 
billion euros more than the previous year. Our order backlog is equivalent to more than 
three years ’ revenue . 
• We increased  revenue  from 28.5 billion euros to 29 billion euros . However, the 
currency helped us here. On a comparable basis,  revenue  decreased moderately by 1 
billion euros.  
• In terms of earnings before interest  and taxes, we had to accept a loss despite all our 
efforts. Adjusted EBITA was minus 75 million euros . The loss was due to the 
development at SGRE . The withdrawal from Russia also had an impact. By contrast, Gas 
and Power benefited from its competitiveness  improvement program. As a result, the 
segment recorded a strong increase in adjusted EBITA.  
• By contrast, special items  resulting from the restructuring and integration costs at SGRE  
had a negative impact. Adjusted for these special items , earnings before interest and 
taxes amounted to 379 million euros . By comparison, the figure for 2021 was 661 
million euros.  
• After interest  and taxes, the loss was 647 million euros.  In 2021, the figure was minus 
560 million euros.  
• As a result, basic earnings per share were negative at minus 0.56 euros . By 
comparison, in 2021 it was minus 0.63 euros.  
In view of the results, the Executive Board and Supervisory Board have agreed that no 
dividend is to be paid  this year . Accordingly, we propose this  to the Annual General 
Meeting .  
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 6 of 14 It must not and will not stop there . Our goal is clear : We want to seize the opportunities 
presented by the energy transition and become one of the world ’s leading energy technology 
companies. A company that is profitable. And a company that pays dividends .  
Because of the good performance of our Gas and Power segment , I am optimistic about 
2023 . We will continue to work systematically on increasing profita bility. And we will make 
every effort to return SGRE to profitability in the medium term.  
SGRE’s renewed profit warning on January 19, 2023 shows how challenging this is. The 
reason was the negative development of failure rates in specific  components. This led to 
higher warranty and maintenance costs. As a result , we have adjusted our expectation s for 
Siemens Energy ’s full fiscal year.  And this is in spite of very positive business developments 
in all other areas. It’s a  disappointing development for all of us. After all, we want to make 
Siemens Energy a profitable company overall. This made the decision to delist SGRE all the 
more important. From this point on , the SGRE team can fully concentrate on solving the 
operational problems and improving competitiveness.  
 
Non-financial results  
Part of being a successful company is making progress on the issue of sustainability. Our 
goal is to be come  a leader in the energy sector when it comes to environmental , social and 
governance issues. Because for us, sustainability is the central element of our business 
strategy . A prerequisite for lo ng-term corporate success. A look at our sustainability report 
shows  that we made good progress in all fields in fiscal year  2022.  
• We reduced CO 2 emissions in our own operations by 21 percent compared with the 
previous year. Compared to the base year 2019, we have  halve d our emissions. We want 
to make Siemens Energy completely climate -neutral by 2030 .  
• Our share of renewable electricity in our own electricity consumption rose from 76 
percent in the previous year to 90 percent. In the current fiscal year, we aim to supply our 
operations entirely with renewable electricity.  
• Indirect emissions in the upstream and downstream suppl y chain are also declining. 
Our customers were able to save 46 million metric tons of CO 2 through the use of our 
products compared with the previous year.  
• We are also making progress in the area of social issues. The key topics here are  
inclusion and diversity . We want to increase the proportion of women in senior 
management positions to 25 percent by 2025 and to 30 percent by 2030. As of 
September 30, 2022, the figure at Gas and Power was 2 2 percent.  
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 7 of 14 • Finally, the topic of governance . The energy trans ition demands that we react quickly 
and quickly to changes in the market – and that means our employees personally. 
Training therefore plays a strategic role at Siemens Energy. In the past fiscal year, we 
increased training hours by around 20 percent compa red to 2021.  On average, each 
employee took part in 10.3 hours of training.  
Our goal is still  to provide our customers with the best possible support in their transformation 
to greater sustainability. For us, this means setting a good example and applying the highest 
standards to our own actions.  
All in all, the results for fiscal year  2022 show both light and shade . We are aware of this. 
They a re an incentive to move forward with determination and systematically exploit our 
business opportunities. We are on the right track . Now we need to initiate the second phase 
of our transformation. To continuously create value . And to increase it . For you, our 
shareholders.  
 
VALUE CREATION – EXPLOITING THE POTENTIAL OF THE ENERGY 
TURNAROUND  
Targeted – The right setup  
The market situation makes me confident . The energy transition has the potential to 
become the biggest economic growth driver since industrialization. An investment 
requirement of 50 trillion euros by 2030 sends a clear message .  
But what matters now is making the energy transition a success.  
Five points are central from our point of view:  
• First: Expand renewable energies . By 2030, we must massively expand the share of 
renewable energies . In Europe and the USA by a factor of around two, and in the Asia -
Pacific region by a factor of as much as six compared with 2021.  
• Second: Improve energy efficiency . We need to save energy wherever possible. This 
requires innovations if we are to successfully drive forward electrification and energy 
management.  
• Third : Strengthen electricity grids . The rising share of renewables and increasing 
electrification require more robust grids.  
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 8 of 14 • Fourth: Use existing infrastructure as a bridge . The investments in the energy 
transition are substantial. Where it makes sense, we need to use existing infrastructure 
as a bridge. For example, using gas-fired power plants to stabilize the energy supply. At 
the same time, we need to gradually decarbonize  it, for example by using hydrogen 
instead of natural gas.  
• Fifth : Secure supply chains and minerals . More materials and minerals are needed for 
the energy transition. Secure access to them is the basis for a successful energy 
transition.  A clear raw materials and recycling strategy is therefore essential.  
A look at these points shows that Siemens Energy has everything it takes to drive the energy 
transition  forward. And that we want to and will benefit from it. The energy transition is a n 
important lever for increasing the value of our company . Our alignment along the entire 
energy value chain makes it possible.  
1. First, our portfolio for low -emission or zero-emission power generation . Since  October 1, 
2022, this has been the responsibility of the Gas Services and SGRE Business Areas. 
Gas Services comprises the gas turbine and large steam  turbine businesses. SGRE 
covers wind energy .  
2. Then there ’s our Grid Technologies Business Area. It focuses on the efficient transport 
and storage of electricity.  
3. And finally, our activities that reduce energy consumption  or greenhouse gas emissions  
in industrial processes. Bundled in the Transformation of Industr y Business Area . 
On the first pillar of our setup , low-emission or zero -emission power generation : With Gas 
Services and SGRE, we are benefiting from the growth trend of rising electricity demand.  
Global CO 2 emissions will be halved if we replace all coal-fired power plants with gas -fired 
power plants. This and the issue of energy security are important drivers for our Gas 
Services Business Area . We are also reducing emissions by modernizing existing plants. We 
were very successful with this approach in fiscal year  2022, with an order intake of  11.8 
billion euros. And we see the market prospects for this business remaining stable in the 
coming years.  
One example of the shift from coal to gas is the Stuttgart -Münster combined heat and 
power plant . In the long term, green hydrogen is to replace gas. Siemens Energy is already 
building the plant in such a way that it can be operated with hydrogen in the future . By doing 
so, we are supporting our customer EnBW in its goal of climate neutrality by 2035.  
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 9 of 14 Wind energy plays a key role in the expansion of renewable energies. According to our 
forecasts, the market for onshore wind turbines will remain stable until 2030. For 2030, we 
assume a market of 47 gigawatts . By way of comparison, each gigawatt can supply around 1 
million households with electricity. We are the market leader in offshore wind. Here we 
expect average annual growth of 28 percent by 2030 . This correspon ds to an increase of 
around 27 gigawatts in 2030 .  
The potential here is demonstrated by the Moray West offshore wind power project off the 
coast of Scotland . It will be connected to the grid in 2024. SGRE is supplying 60 turbines with 
a rotor diameter of 222 meters . That is equivalent to the length of two soccer fields. Each of 
them will generate around 15 megawatts of electricity . And we’re not just supplying the 
turbines . Siemens Energy also received the order for the grid connection.  
 
This brings us to the second  pillar: Efficient transport and storage of electricity. The 
example of Moray West alone shows  that t he expansion of renewable energies is also a 
growth driver for our Grid Technologies Business Area . At the same time, rising global 
demand for electricity is playing into our hands. Both require the expansion and 
modernization of power grids . The prospects for this business are excellent. The business 
figures published today for the first quarter of fiscal year  2023 show this impressively. We 
expect the market to grow to 74 billion euros by 2030, up from 50 billion euros in 2021. That 
corresponds to growth of 5 percent per year. Grid Technologies will use its leading market 
position to benefit from this growth.  
This is also illustrated by the example of NeuConnect . In this project, we are transporting 
surplus wind power from Germany to the UK. We are connecting two of Europe ’s largest 
energy markets via a high -voltage line. Electricity flows in large quantities in both directions. 
Enough to power 1.5 million households.  
Finally, the third pillar . Energy consumption in industrial applications. A successful 
energy transition also means using energy as efficiently as possible in industrial processes . 
This is the focus of our Transformation of Industry Business Area .  
It benefits from the trend toward increasing energy efficiency and electrification of industrial 
processes. One example fro m fiscal year  2022 is the LNG project with our customer 
Woodfibre in Canada . The necessary compressors for the process are operated fully 
electrically and supplied with clean electricity from hydropower. This will enable us to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions in the production of liquefied gas by more than 80 percent 
compared with  conventional processes.  
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 10 of 14 Transformation of Industry also includes our activities to generate hydrogen by 
electrolysis . We see great potential in this market. Together with our cooperation partner Air 
Liquide, we are currently building a gigawatt -scale  production facility for electrolysis units in 
Berlin . It will go into operation in 2023.  
 
All these examples show that Siemens Energy is making an important contribution to 
the energy transition. And is consistently benefiting from the business opportunities that 
arise. Because our products, solutions and services are needed.  
 
Flexible – Adapt to Boundary Conditions  
In order to successfully exploit the opportunities presented by the energy transition, we must 
adapt as best  as we can to changing boundary conditions. The Ukraine war showed us how 
quickly the balance between energy availability, affordability and sustainability can change . 
The issue of adaptability was the basis for our new corporate structure .  
We presented the new structure at the Capital Markets Day in May 2022 and implemented it 
starting October 1, 2022. We have significantly reduced the number of hierarchical  levels and 
sharpened responsibilities. We have also changed our reporting structure and created 
great er transparency on the capital market for our Business Areas.  
In the new structure, we have also created integrated global functions. Examples of this 
are purchasing, IT , logistics  and our project entity . These ensure synergies across the 
Business Areas. And they help to deploy resources more efficiently when the order situation 
fluctuates . In this way, our customers benefit from the best teams for each project. And our 
employees are given continuous development opportunities across the entire portfolio.  
 
Focused – Innovative Solutions for the Energy Transition  
Finally, we have realigned our innovation area . If you want to shape the energy transition, 
you have to be innovative. 40 percent of  the solutions that will reduce emissions to zero by 
2050 are not yet ready for the market. With clear criteria, we are aligning our innovation 
activities to the issues of sustainability and service business. It also helps that we are 
increasingly bundling development activities at four innovation centers. In Berlin, Orlando, 
Abu Dhabi and Shenz hen. 
In the past fiscal year, we invested 1.1 billion euros in research and development. This 
spending is linked to speci fic business plans and financial criteria. Because innovation is not 
an end in itself. Let me give you three examples:  
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 11 of 14 1. We improved the efficiency of our largest HL gas turbine . This was the only reason 
we were able to sell eleven of them in the past fiscal year. The order value was over 1.5 
billion euros.  
2. SGRE has developed a concept to recycl e rotor blades . The Recyclable Blade can be 
used for onshore and offshore  wind turbines. RWE has installed the rotor blades for the 
first time in a North Sea wind farm . In fast-growing markets such as wind energy, the 
reuse of materials will be a key competitive advantage in the future.  
3. Service is an important focus for innovation. More than half of our research and 
development  spending goes into this high -margin business. One example is the 
inspection of high -voltage lines using drones and image analysis with artificial 
intelligence. This halves the number of helicopter flights and creates added value for our 
customers . 
We are develop ing numerous innovation s together with partners . We share the risks and 
reduce our expenses . And we accelerate time to market. In 2022, we increased the number 
of our partnerships by 20 percent.  
 
WIND BUSINESS – INTEGRATI NG THE SECOND PHASE  
OF OUR TRANSFORMATION  
Integrating – The Transaction and its Next Steps 
This brings me to the next aspect for future value enhancement . The integration of SGRE 
and strengthening our wind business . With it, we are initiating the second phase of our 
transformation .  
Wind energy plays a central role in the energy transition. The integration of SGRE is 
therefore a logical next step.  
On May 21, 2022, we announced a voluntary tender offer for all outstanding shares in 
Siemens Gamesa. An important factor for approval by the Spanish regulator was the 
purchase price of 18.05 euros per share . We financed part of this through a mandatory 
convertible bond in the  amount of 9 60 million euros. We placed this on September 6, 2022. 
At the Annual General Meeting we are asking you to approve agenda items 10, 11 and 12, 
authorizing us to carry out further capital measures. These will enable us to finance the 
transaction . On December 19, 2022, the Securities and Exchange Commission confirmed an 
acceptance rate of 77.88 percent for the offer. 
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 12 of 14 At an Extraordinary General Meeting on January 25, 2023 , the shareholders of SGRE 
resolved to delist the company from the Spanish stock exchange . The planned integration 
will allow us to better oversee the challenges at SGRE. We can simplify structures. We will  
reduce the number of directors from 10 to 3. Important global Group functions will cooperate 
more closely immediately after the delisting. This will allow the management team around 
Jochen Eickholt to concentrate fully on operational performance . We expect the transaction 
to generate annual cost syne rgies of up to 300 million euros within  three years of full 
integration . 
We are systematically tackling the turnaround of our wind business . With the 
reorganization and the cash tender  offer for SGRE, we have initiated the second phase of 
our transformation. Because we are convinced  that t his is how Siemens Energy will head 
toward a successful future.  
 
 
ASPIRATION – A RELIABLE, PREDICTABLE  
AND PROFITABLE INVESTMENT  
Ladies and Gentlemen,  
For me and the entire Board of Management, it is important to systematically seize the 
opportunities presented by the energy transition. We will help our customers to master 
their challenges.  
We will further qualify and promote our employees . We will make our contribution to the 
environment and society. And we will increase our earnings and grow sustainably as a 
result. Because then – and this is our goal – you, our shareholders, will benefit: through 
dividend payments and share price increas es.  
In fiscal year  2023, we will continue on this path of transformation . And we will continuously 
improve SGRE . We know  that r eturning to profitability at SGRE will not happen overnight. 
But the course has been set. The task now is to implement the measures consistently and 
precisely. As CEO, Jochen Eickholt is exactly the right man for the job . 
I am confident that we will further consolidate Siemens Energy ’s resilience in fiscal year  
2023. This should lead to st ronger revenue growth compared to the previous year.  
We expect comparable  revenue  growth in a range of 3 to 7 percent in fiscal year  2023. This 
does not include currency translation and portfolio effects. We also expect a profit  margin 
before special items between  1 and 3 percent. In addition, we anticipate a net loss on the 
reported level of the previous fiscal year.  
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 13 of 14 Nevertheless, I  am convinced  that Siemens Energy has a successful future ahead of it . 
Together with our customers, we are creating reliable , affordable and sustainable energy 
concepts . We set the course for this in 2022. I have already told you about our initial 
successe s. The successful integration of SGRE will be a key focus for me personally . Our 
aim is to be a reliable , profitable and predictable investment for you, our shareholders. I 
and the entire Executive Board are committed to this, and I ask for your trust and support.  
Thank you very much.  
  
Dr. Christian Bruch : Speech for the 2023 Annual Shareholders' Meeting  of Siemens En ergy AG  
  Page 14 of 14 2) NOTES AND FORWARD –LOOKING STATEMENTS  
 
This document contains statements related to our future business and financial performance, and 
future events or developments involving Siemens Energy that may constitute forward -looking 
statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “look forward to,” 
“anticipate” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project,” or words of similar meaning. 
We may also make forward -looking stat ements in other reports, prospectuses, in presentations, in 
material delivered to shareholders and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may from 
time to time make oral forward -looking statements. Such statements are based on the current 
expe ctations and certain assumptions of Siemens Energy’s management, of which many are beyond 
Siemens Energy’s control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, 
including, but not limited to, those described in disclosures, in p articular in the chapter “Report on 
expected developments and associated material opportunities and risks” in the Annual Report. Should 
one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, should acts of force majeure, such as 
pandemics, occur, or shou ld underlying expectations including future events occur at a later date or 
not at all, or should assumptions prove incorrect, Siemens Energy’s actual results, performance, or 
achievements may (negatively or positively) vary materially from those described  explicitly or implicitly 
in the relevant forward -looking statement. Siemens Energy neither intends, nor assumes any 
obligation, to update or revise these forward -looking statements in light of developments which differ 
from those anticipated.  
Due to roun ding, numbers presented throughout this and other documents may not add up precisely 
to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.  