 
SPEECH  FOR  THE  ANNUAL  SHAREHOLDERS’  MEETING  2022  OF 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  AG 
Dr. Christian Bruch  
President and Chief Executive Officer  
of Siemens Energy AG  
Berlin , Februar y 24,  2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The report presented at the Annual General Meeting will be delivered orally in German 
and may also deviate in its content from this version published in advance, in particular 
to take account of developments that have occurred in the meantime.  
 
The report  as orally delivered in German shall prevail . 
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  2 of 13  
 
1 Introduction  
Shareholders, Ladies and Gentlemen,  
Energy is the foundation of social development. For this reason, energy supplies must be 
reliable, affordable and sustainable. This is exactly what we at Sie mens Energy do day in 
and day out.  
We are a company that is known for its focus on customers, its pace -setting technologies  
and its ability to pull off complex projects. Our goal is to use this expertise to become the 
world’s leading energy technology company.  
But: Just how much progress have we made toward achieving our goal?  
2021 was our first full fiscal year as an independ ent, listed company.  
It was a year in which we successfully placed our Gas and Power Segment (GP) on a very 
solid foundation. GP is performing exactly as we said it would.  
It was a year in which we streamlined our internal processes and cost structures.  
And it was a year in which we reliably helped our customers carry out their own 
transformations.  
Our close relationship with our customers was reflected in our high order intake.  
The cash we generated substantially exceeded our original expectations.  
I would like to thank our employees for their tireless commitment to our company.  
Thank you, too, for firmly believing in the success of our company. When nearly 40,000 
employees become shareholders, you know that you are doing something righ t. 
Despite all of these positive developments, we have to remember something else as well: 
Our transformation has just begun. We still have work to do. To see why, you simply have to 
look at our stock price.  
I am not happy with its performance.  
One reaso n for the situation is the financial results of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy 
(SGRE), a company in which we hold a 67 % stake. I will talk some more about this issue a 
little later.  
The long -range outlook for the wind business is good. But the financial results in this area 
must be significantly improved.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  3 of 13 Demand for energy is rising around the world. The electrification of industrial processes is 
growing rapidly. Economic growth and climate protection are two sides of the same coin.  
Siemens Energy is in a n exceptional position to profit from the growth of the energy market.  
Our 92,000 employees are actively helping shape the changing energy market.  
One-sixth of electricity around the world is already being generated with the help of our 
products and solut ions.  
Our wide portfolio enables us to respond to the various speeds at which the energy transition 
is unfolding around the world. Every country and every customer have  a different starting 
point, different challenges and different objectives.  
 
2 Market en vironment and examples 2021  
Let’s now take a look at our market environment: The global economy grew strongly in 2021. 
The world’s energy business profited from this growth as well.  
The International Energy Agency reports that global demand for power rose  by nearly 5 % in 
2021.  
At the same time, a wide range of initiatives designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
were announced:  
• The European Union is determined to lower emissions by 55 % compared with 
levels set in 1990 by 2030.  
• The United States is pl anning to halve its emissions compared with 2005 levels.  
• And China is planning to be carbon neutral by 2060.  
When you add it all together, the transformation of the energy economy will require 
worldwide investments of about €50 trillion by 2040.  
Which specific steps must be taken to successfully carry out the energy transition?  
Step 1:  We must switch from coal to natural gas as quickly as possible. There is hardly any 
other way to reduce CO 2 emissions faster. Gas -fired and steam power plants would produce 
roughly half the emissions that coal plants would. Configuring gas turbines to operate on 
green hydrogen wou ld also facilitate climate -neutral operations in the future. You should also 
remember that our turbines can already burn up to 75 % green hydrogen. We will hit 100 % 
by 2030.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  4 of 13 Step 2:  We must massively expand the use of renewable energies. In 2021, the shar e of 
renewables around the world rose by 8 % – to a total capacity of 8,300 terawatt hours. This 
amounts to nearly one -third of the world’s annual electricity consumption.  
Step 3:  We must adapt and expand power grids. The growing amount of renewable energies 
being used will require us to fundamentally reinforce our electricity infrastructure. Germany 
shows just how high the needs are: The German Ministry of Economic Affairs and Cli mate 
Action reports that more than 7,500 kilometers of transmission grids must be modernized, 
reinforced or rebuilt.  
And step 4:  We must increase energy efficiency and promote the electrification of industrial 
applications. Today, industry produces nearly one-quarter of global CO 2 emissions. It must 
reduce the total by more than five gigatons of CO 2 per year. This can only be achieved with 
increased energy efficiency in industrial processes.  
Our wide -ranging portfolio enables us to assist our customers ever y step of the way. The 
following examples for this past fiscal year illustrate my point:  
1. In Greece, most of the country’s coal -fired power plants will be shut down by 2023. 
To offset the lost power production, we are building a power plant equipped with th e 
very latest gas -turbine technology in the northeastern region of the country. It will 
have an output of 877 megawatts. As a result, our customer Terna will lower its 
emission output by 3.7 million tons of CO 2 annually. This amounts to more than 5 % 
of ye arly CO 2 emissions in Greece.  
2. One of the world’s largest wind parks is being erected in Great Britain. Wind turbines 
built by Siemens Gamesa with output totals of up to 15 megawatts are being used 
there. About four million people will soon be using clean w ind power thanks to a 
partnership with Vattenfall.  
3. In Germany, a third high -voltage direct current project known as SuedLink is being 
built. Added together, these projects will facilitate the low -loss transmission of six 
gigawatts of output over more than 2,000 kilometers by our customers. And more 
than ten million households will be supplied with sustainable power.  
  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  5 of 13 4. The CO 2 emissions of oil production must be cut as well. This work will require the 
increased electrification of production platforms. Norway  is a good example: We 
facilitate the low -loss transmission of clean power to oil platforms there. With the  
help of our electrical equipment, the operator, Equinor, can cut CO 2 emissions by 
500,000 tons annually. This represents 1 % of the country’s total  CO 2 emissions.  
As you can see, Siemens Energy is already heavily involved in the energy transition.  
 
3 A review of 2021  
3.1 Stability and profitability  
Let’s now take a look  at our company’s performance: In fiscal 2021, we focused on 
stabilizing our processes and boosting our profitability.  
Which steps did we take in the Gas and Power Segment (GP)?  
• We cut our internal non -conformance costs by €156 million compared to the tota l in 
2020.  
• We strengthened purchasing: We saved €669 million in material purchasing costs – 
this represented an increase of €20 million from the previous year and was achieved 
amid demanding market conditions. We increased purchasing volume by 14 % in 
coun tries that have low production costs. We also made good overall progress in 
our push to optimize our supplier base.  
• We reduced our IT structures and the number of applications in use by 20 % 
compared with 2020.  
• We are focusing more intently on our portfoli o as well: After giving up the business 
of equipping new coal -fired power plants, we also reduced the product models for 
aero-derivative gas turbines. We also reached an agreement to sell our minority 
stake in Voith Hydro.  
• We took another important step b y improving the risk profile of our bids: One 
example of this effort is our power plant business: The number of bids we submitted 
for turnkey projects plunged from 42 % in 2018 to 9 % last year. Our revenue 
climbed at the same time.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  6 of 13 • Finally, we are in the process of lowering our personnel costs. In February 2021, we 
announced that we would reduce the number of our employees by 7,800 by 2025. If 
you add in earlier programs, we removed about 2,400 positions in fiscal 2021. The 
conclusion of a reconciliation o f interests and a framework social plan were two 
significant steps in this process during the past fiscal year.  
Let’s now turn our attention to the SGRE Segment. The management team of Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy launched its LEAP Program in 2020. It focuses on product 
innovations and optimization of supply chains and purchasing. Another key area is project 
implementation. The onshore business faces tremendous challenges here, even though 
steps have already been taken to address them.  
Prices were raised to offset cost inflation. Prices for steel and other raw materials were set. 
Purchasing, the project business and sales need to work even more closely together. The 
management team expects this closer relationship will improve the quality of bids and 
facilitate more precise estimations of project risks and costs.  
 
3.2 Growth  
Amid all the necessary cost cutting, we  still were able to lay the foundation for Siemens 
Energy to generate profitable growth in the future.  
In fiscal 2021, we at Siemens Energy invested €1,155 million, or 4.1 % of our revenue, in 
innovation. About 5,000 employees are fueling our company’s res earch and development 
work.  
We are focusing on carbon -free technologies, service and new growth areas. By applying 
this focus, we are systematically expanding our portfolio.  
In our power generation work and our business with industrial applications, we are  
concentrating on ways to decarbonize the portfolio.  
We are continuing to fine -tune our blue portfolio for power transmission. It comprises climate -
neutral products for use in power transmission and will replace climate -killing SF6 gases. We 
are investing  more than €60 million in a new production facility in Berlin. The plant is 
scheduled to go into operation in 2023.  
In the industrial area, we are developing things like large -scale heat pumps for the purpose 
of improving use in industrial processes.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  7 of 13 SGRE is focusing primarily on new models for wind turbines and software in its research and 
development activities. Its components are also being continuously refined. These 
improvements will result in better and more cost -effective products, solutions and serv ices in 
the next technology generation. SGRE intends to concentrate in particular on the introduction 
of new wind turbine generations. Thanks to such efforts, the latest offshore turbines can 
produce 30 % more power each year than previous models.  
 
3.3 Financial performance in fiscal 2021  
Let’s now look at our figures for fiscal 2021.  
We won contracts worth €33 billion. In doing so, we finished the year slightly below the 
previous year’s level – as expected. This decline was caused by currency effects a nd the 
exceptionally good order  situation at SGRE in the previous year.  
Revenue rose slightly to €28.5 billion. Both segments, Gas and Power as well as SGRE, 
generated growth.  
Our operating earnings jumped. Thanks to operational improvements, adjusted EBI TA before 
special items totaled €661 million. We experienced a loss of €17 million during the previous 
year.  
Adjusted EBITA totaled minus €12 million. We almost reached the profit zone. To put things 
in perspective, I would like to point out that we record ed a loss of about €1.5 billion in fiscal 
2020. The progress achieved in the Gas and Power Segment really stands out.  
As expected, Siemens Energy completed fiscal 2021 with a loss of €560 million following the 
deduction of taxes – this was still a very str ong improvement over the previous year’s total. 
The loss after taxes totaled about €1.9 billion at the time. However, the losses that I 
previously mentioned in connection with SGRE’s onshore business prevented us from 
producing a better result.  
What role d id individual businesses play in this result? I will now provide you with a brief 
overview.  
Let’s first look at the divisions of the Gas and Power Segment.  
In the power  generation business, we generated tremendous gains in order intake, revenue 
and earnin gs. We also recaptured market share in large -scale gas turbines. Our business 
with medium -sized gas turbines did well, too. And it did so while significantly cutting costs.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  8 of 13 Power transmission turned in a satisfying performance as well. We maintained our m arket 
share and won a large number of major contracts. We also produced solid gains in revenue 
and profitability. This was the result of improved project execution and increased utilization of 
our plants.  
Our industrial business profited from our customers ’ intensified interest in investments. Order 
intake improved as well. We also cut our costs and improved our productivity. The result was 
a significant increase in our profitability.  
Overall, the service business bounced back from the setbacks it experienc ed in 2020. The 
results tell the full story. The Service margin returned to the level of 2019. Service is a key 
profitability driver at GP. Here, too, we are focusing in particular on investing in research and 
development.  
This brings me to Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy.  
The offshore and service businesses at SGRE are making progress. Nonetheless, SGRE 
was forced to issue a profit warning in the third quarter of 2021. This warning came after 
guidance for revenue was capped in the second quarter. The reaso ns for this step included 
intense financial pressure that arose from the re -evaluation of projects. The prices for raw 
materials rose as well.  
I really believe that the wind market is intact. All parameters are positive. Offshore and 
Service have a viable business model and good earnings quality. Measures have already 
been introduced at Onshore. But it will certainly take some time for them to have an impact 
on the project business. We now expect management to bring about a turnaround by taking 
a discipline d and forceful approach.  
Am I satisfied with our overall performance in fiscal 2021? The team produced good work 
amid difficult circumstances. We, the members of the Executive Board, are grateful for it. But 
we are only at the beginning of the transformat ion. We want to and we can become much 
more profitable. After all, we know that profitability is the key to sustainable growth.  
Nonetheless: I think that we are moving in the right direction – and I want you, our 
shareholders, to share in these gains as well.  
For this reason, the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board have recommended that the 
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting appro ve a dividend of €0.10 per share. We base this 
recommendation on our solid balance sheet and our positive overall operational 
performance.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  9 of 13 We are also doing so, even though the first quarter of fiscal 2022 has already shown that we 
still have much work to do on the transformation.  
Gas and Power turned in a very solid operational performance in the first quarter. Order 
intake has grown substantially as well. Revenue declined as expected due to timing effects 
associated with the execution of large projects . The Segment’s adjusted EBITA also looks 
good.  
But these positive trends were overshadowed once again by the very negative results at 
SGRE. Even though order intake rose sharply, revenue plummeted from the level achieved 
in the same quarter in 2021. Adjusted  EBITA has turned negative – primarily as a result of 
tight purchasing markets. Added to this are project -related and technical challenges.  
The solid performance at Gas and Power shows the transformation is moving forward. Our 
measures are beginning to tak e effect. The results are moving in the right direction. On the 
other hand, the latest profit warning issued by SGRE is a setback and a disappointment to all 
shareholders. The market environment in the onshore business is and will remain difficult. 
But we also must acknowledge that internal problems hurt earnings as well.  
For these reasons, Jochen Eickholt has been appointed the new CEO of Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy, effective March 1 . Jochen Eickholt is a skilled expert at the job of 
restructuring companies facing difficult circumstances. I wish him much success in his new 
role. 
 
4 ESG: A focal point of our strategy  
In all our work, we will continue to steer Siemens Energy in the direction of sustainability. 
This is the foundation of p rofitable growth and is a main feature of our strategy.  
We are concentrating even more intensely on environment, social and governance topics in 
the new fiscal year.  
We set an ambitious environmental goal for our Gas and Power Segment in 2020: We intend 
to become climate neutral in our operations, that is, in terms of Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions, by 2030. The operations of SGRE have been climate neutral since 2019.  
In accordance with the 1.5 -degree climate path laid down in Paris, we must cut the emission s 
produced by our own business activities by 46 %.  
We will reach this interim goal in 2025, or five years ahead of schedule.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  10 of 13 As part of this push, we intend to completely switch our own power supplies to renewable 
electricity by 2023. The share of regenera tive electricity totaled 76 % in last fiscal year.  
In addition, we view CO 2 pricing as a powerful force in the push to achieve climate neutrality. 
We are applying an internal shadow price of €100 per ton of CO 2 to real -estate -related 
investments.  
We are no t leaving things there. We as a company intend to reduce emissions along the 
entire value chain to zero: from suppliers and our own company to the use of our products by 
customers.  
Expressed in trade jargon, I am talking about Scope 1, 2 and 3.  
We are co mmitted to the objectives of the Paris climate agreement in the process. Our 
reason for doing so is simple: We understand the important role that the energy sector will 
play in the achievement of global climate goals.  
We believe in the following five poin ts: 
1. Climate change is real and requires forceful action to fight. Economic growth and 
climate protection are two sides of the same coin.  
2. Sustainable power generation will provide companies with long -range security, offer 
tremendous growth potential and cre ate new jobs.  
3. The energy transition is advancing at different speeds. This is why the portfolio of an 
integrated energy  technology company is in demand: from sustainable power 
generation and efficient transport to future -proof industrial applications.  
4. But transformation should not stop at the energy sector. It must encompass all 
sectors, including transportation, industry and buildings.  
5. A close, trusting partnership among all parties is the key to success: from suppliers 
of raw materials and industrial tech nology partners to consumers. Our goal is to lead 
the energy transition and jointly move it forward together with our customers and 
partners. A net -zero goal – and this is something I believe deeply – will form the 
foundation for the successful future of o ur company.  
We are making strides forward not just in terms of the environment. We are also making 
progress in social and governance issues . You will find details about this work in the 
sustainability report we released on January 25, 2022.  
For this reason, I will touch on just a few highlights. In terms of social issues , we are focusing 
on both employee growth as well as on inclusion and di versity.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  11 of 13 During the past fiscal year, we invested about €58 million in advanced training for our 
workforce. This amounts to €632 per employee. Apprenticeship programs for young people 
will remain one of our top priorities in the future as well. On Septemb er 30, 2021, we had 
2,100 trainees and university -level interns in Germany alone. In autumn 2021, 241 recent 
graduates began an initial training program or a working -student program.  
We have also set clear inclusion and diversity goals. We intend to increa se the percentage of 
women in the workforce at the Gas and Power Segment from 21 % during the past fiscal 
year to 25 % by 2025. And then to 30 % by 2030. At SGRE, we intend to increase the 
percentage of women at the senior management level to 25 % by 2025.   
The percentage of women at Siemens Energy is currently 19.3 %.  
In 2021, we created the Inclusion & Diversity Council led by our CFO Maria Ferraro.  
Compliance is one example of our corporate governance efforts.  
We work in accordance with the highest inte grity and compliance standards. We act quickly 
and forcefully when misconduct occurs. And we have good reason for doing so: Integrity is 
the basis of all business principles. We are taking the right approach here. Our Code of 
Conduct is one of the leading such codes among DAX companies. The trade journal 
“Compliance Manager” recently confirmed our position here.  
We are determined to become even better. During the past fiscal year, more than 60,000 of 
our employees completed a compliance training program. In  addition, we continuously refine 
our compliance system. These improvements will enable us to spot risks earlier and 
efficiently control them.  
All this work shows we are not just working with our customers and partners to shape the 
energy transition. We ar e also moving systematically forward in our work to transform our 
own company in many areas – by taking a clear approach and measuring our results.  
 
5 Outlook for 2022  
Our goal is clear: We intend to and will seize the opportunities created by the energy 
transition.  
One other thing is clear as well: We had to adjust our guidance for fiscal 2022.  
In our Gas and Power Segment, our target remains comparable revenue growth to be in a 
range of positive 1 % to positive 5 % for fiscal year 2022. We also continue to expect an 
adjusted EBITA margin before special items of between positive 4.5 % and positive 6.5 %.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  12 of 13 For the SGRE Segment, we now expect to see a comparable decline of revenue between 
negative 2 % and negative 9 %. Adjusted EBITA margin before special ite ms is expected to 
be in a range of negative 4 % to positive 1 %.  
For Siemens Energy, this will mean an expected comparable revenue development in the 
range of negative 2 % to positive 3 %. We expect an adjusted EBITA margin before special 
items between pos itive 2 % and positive 4 %.  
Overall, we believe in the long -term ability of Siemens Energy to pay a dividend. Our reasons 
for believing this are clear:  
1. The energy market is moving in the right direction and underscores our company’s 
strategic positioning.  
2. Gas and Power is performing as promised.  
3. SGRE has some catching -up to do in its onshore business. Nonetheless, the wind 
market is filled with huge long -term potential.  
4. Our systematic focus on ESG is paying off. It is a fact also reflected in the 
consisten tly positive evaluations issued by highly respected rating agencies.  
This will enable us to generate long -term and profitable growth and returns to our 
shareholders.  
Shareholders, thank you for your trust.  
 
  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech for the annual shareholders’ meeting 2022 of  
Siemens Energy AG  
  Page  13 of 13 INFORMATION AND FORWARD -LOOKING STATEM ENTS  
This document contains statements related to our future business and financial performance, and 
future events or developments involving Siemens Energy that may constitute forward -looking 
statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expe ct,” “look forward to,” 
“anticipate” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project,” or words of similar meaning. 
We may also make forward -looking statements in other reports, prospectuses, in presentations, in 
material delivered to sha reholders, and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may from 
time to time make oral forward -looking statements. Such statements are based on the current 
expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens Energy’s management, of which many are b eyond 
Siemens Energy’s control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors, 
including, but not limited to, those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter “Report on 
expected developments and associated material o pportunities and risks” in the Annual Report. Should 
one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, should acts of force majeure, such as 
pandemics, occur, or should underlying expectations including future events occur at a later date or 
not at all, or should assumptions prove incorrect, Siemens Energy’s actual results, performance, or 
achievements may (negatively or positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implicitly 
in the relevant forward -looking statement. Siemens Energy  neither intends, nor assumes any 
obligation, to update or revise these forward -looking statements in light of developments which differ 
from those anticipated.  
Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other documents may not add up precisely  
to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.   