 
 
OPENING SPEECH FOR THE 2021   
ANNUAL SHAREHOLDERS ’ MEETING  
OF SIEMENS  ENERGY  AG 
Joe Kaeser  
Chairman of the Supervisory Board   
of Siemens Energy  AG 
 
Munich , Februar y 10,  2021 
 
 
Abbreviated version.  
Check against delivery . 
  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the Chairman of  the Supe rvisory Board  
 
  Page  2 of 10 Esteemed Shareholders,  
Ladies and Gentlemen,  
As Chairman of the Supervisory Board, I hereby call the 2021 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 
of Siemens Energy AG to order and assume the chair of the meeting as provided in the 
Articles of Association.  
On behalf of the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board and on my own behalf, I want to 
welcome all our shareholders and their representatives, the press corps who is tuning in and 
all the other guests who are attending our Shareholders’ Meeti ng over the Internet.  
Regrettably, because of the current pandemic, this year’s Shareholders’ Meeting cannot be 
held in person. We must hold it virtually. That means our shareholders and their proxies 
cannot be physically present. With the consent of the S upervisory Board, the Executive 
Board has decided to make use of this arrangement, which is offered by German law under 
what is known as the COVID -19 Act.  
Attendance here on location at Werner -von-Siemens -Strasse 1 in Munich is limited to a 
minimum. I wan t to welcome  
• as members of the Executive Board: CEO Dr. Christian Bruch and CFO Maria 
Ferraro.  
• as members of the Supervisory Board: Deputy Chairmen Robert Kensbock and Dr. 
Hubert Lienhard. Dr. Lienhard will chair the meeting in my stead in the event that I am 
unable to do so.  
• And I welcome the proxies appointed by the company, Raphaela da Costa von 
Gehlen and Dr. Moritz Maier.  
The other members of the Supervisory Board and Executive Board are attending this 
meeting on the Internet. We are able to maintain  telephone contact with them. Also in 
attendance is the notary, Jens Kirchner, who will be keeping the record of the meeting. I want 
to extend a warm welcome to you all.  
Note: The section on technical formalities was removed for this abbreviated version.   
I know that many shareholders and their representatives would have preferred an active 
dialog ue.  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the Chairman of  the Supe rvisory Board  
 
  Page  3 of 10 We would have preferred that, too. I hope that in the coming year it will be possible to meet 
again in person. If not, we will have to find legally secure solutions for an interactive dialog ue. 
Dialog ue is a necessity – for both sides.  
Point 1 on the agenda: Presentation of the accepted Annual Financial Statements and the 
approved Consolidated Financial Statements, along with the Combined Management Report, 
for Siemens Energy AG and the Group as of September 30, 2020, along with the report of 
the Supervisory Board for the 2019/2020 fiscal year. You can find the full report of the 
Supervisory Board on pages 166 to 172 of the Annual Report.  
I would lik e to concentrate for now on the main points of this item and go into the work of the 
Supervisory Board during the current fiscal year so far, along with several other items on 
today’s agenda.  
The Annual Financial Statements and Consolidated Financial Stat ements, together with the 
combined Management Report of Siemens Energy AG and the Group for fiscal 2020, were 
audited by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftspr üfungsgesellschaft, and each received an 
unqualified audit opinion.  
The Executive Board and the indep endent auditor explained the documents for the Annual 
Financial Statements in detail to both the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. After 
its own review, the Supervisory Board approved those financial statements. The Annual 
Financial Statements of Siemens Energy AG are thereby accepted.  
The Supervisory Board additionally gave detailed consideration to the report on relationships 
with affiliated companies of Siemens Energy AG as submitted by the Executive Board, 
together with the independent auditor ’s report on that document. The independent auditor 
audited the report on relationships with affiliated companies and granted it an unqualified 
audit opinion. After its own reviews of the report on relationships with affiliated companies 
and the independen t auditor’s report on that document, the Supervisory Board had no 
objections to the Executive Board’s declarations at the end of the report on relationships with 
affiliated companies; it approved that report and affirmed the independent auditor’s opinion.    
Ladies and Gentlemen,  
Siemens AG has redefined its aspirations and has established independent companies that 
will be able to play an active role in shaping the transformation of their respective 
businesses. In that work, these companies have the capabi lities they need to be among the 
best in their industries.  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the Chairman of  the Supe rvisory Board  
 
  Page  4 of 10 The era of big conglomerates is a thing of the past. They have been superseded by focused, 
adaptable companies – including, since last September, Siemens Energy. The pandemic has 
subjected compani es to another significant increase in the pace of change and the pressure 
to change. That especially applies to the energy sector. The transformation toward 
renewable sources of energy has accelerated even further. That is why it was especially 
important t o adhere to our ambitious schedule for making the energy business independent, 
despite the COVID -19 pandemic.  
Yet even as late as September 2020, Siemens Energy AG had no business operations of its 
own and was a wholly -owned subsidiary of Siemens Aktienge sellschaft. Ever since the spin -
off took effect on September 25, 2020, Siemens Energy AG has been the ultimate parent 
company of the independent Siemens Energy Group. Independence became complete when 
the company went public on September 28, 2020.  
Among t he matters that the Supervisory Board and its committees focused on during the first 
months after the spin -off was the compensation system for management, including 
compensation for the members of the Executive Board.  
The Supervisory Board also concerned itself with core questions of corporate governance. 
Among other measures, it adopted the diversity concept for the Executive Board and the 
targets for the composition of the Supervisory Board itself.  
Another core matter was the Executive Board’s strategy for our company. Siemens Energy is 
a leading technology corporation in power generation and transmission. It offers an 
impressive range of products and services. Electrification is a growth field with vast 
opportunities all over the world.  
The gre at challenge is to meet the constantly rising demand for electricity while at the same 
time steadfastly confronting climate change in a way that takes due account of social 
responsibility and makes good economic sense.  
We have a strong management team: Dr . Christian Bruch, Dr. Jochen Eickholt, Maria 
Ferraro and Tim Holt. They have all the qualifications for taking a prudent approach to this 
challenge.  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the Chairman of  the Supe rvisory Board  
 
  Page  5 of 10 The management team has adopted an ambitious strategic program. “Energy of Tomorrow” 
is the answer to the  profound changes the energy business is now undergoing. The strategy 
aims to resolutely make use of the opportunities I have just described and to judiciously 
overcome the associated challenges. The entire Supervisory Board supports the Executive 
Board’s strategy.  
Siemens Energy is part of the solution for the worldwide energy transition – and also part of 
the energy debate. It is important and right for Siemens Energy to continue this debate on 
our responsibility to future generations. So we emphatically  welcome it when the younger 
generation organizes and states its aspirations. The diagnosis is clear. But a cure can only 
come from an appropriate therapy. That therapy has side effects that must be taken into 
account. That is why we must find solutions th at are both effective and integrative. Because 
we have no “Planet B.”  
Companies are part of society. We must integrate interests and act for the benefit of all 
stakeholders. That is why Siemens Energy has affirmed its commitment to its ESG principles 
– “Environmental, Social, Governance” – and is acting accordingly.  
A special point to be emphasized in this connection is the Executive Board’s decision that the 
company will no longer engage in new bidding for power plants fueled solely with coal. The 
compan y will meet the obligations it has already undertaken toward our customers and 
partners.  
That decision is an expression of our consistent focus on guiding Siemens Energy step by 
step toward sustainability and climate neutrality. Against that background, t he Supervisory 
Board also welcomes the company’s activities in new lines of business and technologies of 
the future, including “Power -to-X” and “Green Hydrogen.” Siemens Energy is thus investing 
in the development of a decarbonized economy and is helping t o drive that transformation.  
In addition to principles for sustainable corporate management, the Supervisory Board has 
also adopted the diversity concept for the Executive Board and the targets for the 
Supervisory Board’s own composition.  
Esteemed shareh olders,  
In addition to the usual formalities to be decided at an Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, this 
meeting will also address significant questions that we have submitted for your decision. 
They include electing the independent auditor, electing the shareholders’ representatives to 
sit on the Supervisory Board, and questions of remuneration.  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the Chairman of  the Supe rvisory Board  
 
  Page  6 of 10 Item 4 on our agenda concerns appointing the independent auditor for our annual financial 
statements and consolidated financial statements, as well as the auditor to review th e 
semiannual financial report.  
Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we are nominating Ernst & Young 
GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, of Stuttgart, as the independent auditor of the single -
entity and consolidated financial statements fo r fiscal 2021 and as the auditor to review the 
abridged financial statements and the interim management report of the Group for the first 
half of fiscal 2021.  
The Audit Committee and Supervisory Board have scrupulously and meticulously examined 
E&Y’s role in connection with the developments in the Wirecard scandal. On the basis of the 
facts available to date, they have found no reasons that would oppose electing E&Y as the 
independent auditor for fiscal 2021.  
Item 5 on our agenda is the elections for the S upervisory Board. The term of office of all 
Supervisory Board members representing the shareholders will end at the conclusion of 
today’s Shareholders’ Meeting. New elections are therefore necessary for these ten 
Supervisory Board members. All the current members of the Supervisory Board representing 
the shareholders are standing for reelection.   
Based on the recommendations of the Nominating Committee, the Supervisory Board 
proposes the following individuals for election: Dr. Christine Bortenlänger,  Mr. S igmar 
Gabriel,  Mr. Joe Kaeser,  Dr. Hubert Lienhard,  Ms. Hildegard Müller,  Ms. Laurence Mulliez,  
Mr. Matthias Rebellius,  Prof. Dr. Ralf Thomas,  Ms. Geisha Jimenez Williams, and  Mr. Randy 
Zwirn.  
The following criteria in particular governed the choice of can didates:  
• Experience in the energy sector or in finance; in other words, expert knowledge of the 
field;  
• Internationality and diversity;  
• Experience working with regulatory affairs and international relations, a helpful asset 
for such tasks as successfully ca rrying out the energy transition;  
• And an appropriate involvement by the primary shareholder, Siemens AG, to assist 
with a stable transition of Siemens Energy into an independent entity.  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the Chairman of  the Supe rvisory Board  
 
  Page  7 of 10 • At the same time, ensuring the independence of Siemens Energy – in other words, 
the release of control by Siemens AG. Here in particular we have taken special 
precautions by planning to appoint a “special independent director.” This will ensure 
that the various bodies of the Supervisory Board will be able to reach majority 
decisions independently.  
To enable you to form a better impression of the nominees, I would like to introduce each of 
them briefly, in alphabetical order:  
Christine Bortenlänger is the Managing Director of the Deutsches Aktieninstitut e.V. She has 
extensi ve experience in managing and supervising both exchange -traded and unlisted 
companies. Her expertise with the financial markets and her knowledge of law and 
compliance are outstanding, as is her knowledge of organizational and cultural change.  
Sigmar Gabri el is a former Vice -Chancellor, a retired minister of the federal government in a 
variety of capacities, and a retired state Prime Minister, as well as one of the most 
internationally eminent politicians in Germany. Mr. Gabriel contributes outstanding 
qualifications, especially with his international network and his experience with environmental 
issues.  
Among his many positions, Hubert Lienhard  is a member of the Supervisory Board of the 
energy utility EnBW. From 2008 to 2018, Mr. Lienhard chaired the group management at 
Voith GmbH & Co. KGaA. He has also long been active in major business associations; for 
instance, until 2019 he was Chairman o f the Asia -Pacific Committee of German Business.  
He has outstanding expertise in Siemens Energy’s lines of business and economic regions.  
Hildegard Müller is President of the German Association of the Automotive Industry, the 
VDA; she is also a retired sta te minister and a former member of the Executive Board of 
Innogy. Her extensive experience, including as former Chair of the Management of the 
German Association of Energy and Water Industries, the BDEW, has enabled Ms. Müller to 
gather valuable industry k nowledge and extensive experience with regulatory matters.  
Laurence Mulliez is the Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of Voltalia SA and President of 
Globeleq Ltd. Ms. Mulliez has diverse expertise in financial and management matters in such 
fields as fi nancial economics, energy and chemistry. She was also CEO of EOXIS, a 
company that generates electricity from wind and solar farms, and thus she contributes 
valuable experience for the energy transition.  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the Chairman of  the Supe rvisory Board  
 
  Page  8 of 10 Matthias Rebellius is a member of the Managing Board  of Siemens AG and CEO of Siemens 
Smart Infrastructure. He represents the interface in the value chain between Siemens Energy 
AG and Siemens AG – including with an eye to cooperative arrangements for the benefit of 
both companies in the world market.  
Ralf Thomas is the CFO of Siemens AG and a member of that company’s Managing Board. 
Mr. Thomas is not only known as an exceptionally outstanding and internationally respected 
financial expert but is also extremely well acquainted with the business lines of Siem ens 
Energy AG. On the Managing Board of Siemens AG, he is also in charge of Siemens 
Financial Services, an important partner for Siemens Energy in the acquisition of projects in 
the conventional sphere, and in the operations of Siemens Gamesa.  
Geisha Jime nez Williams is an independent corporate consultant and an expert on the 
energy business. She was the CEO of Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E), and before that was 
a member of the management of Florida Light & Power, now NextEra, a pioneer in the 
energy tran sformation. This experience has given her excellent experience with the customer 
end and in managing complex transformations.  
Randy Zwirn  is a member of the Board of Directors of Babcock Power Inc. Until his departure 
in 2016, Mr. Zwirn was in charge for many years of the important service business of the 
Energy sector at Siemens. Mr. Zwirn is one of the best -connected personalities in the world’s 
energy business. He is well acquainted with Siemens Energy, yet also has the constructive 
critical distance needed for activity on the Supervisory Board.   
Esteemed shareholders , 
We believe we have made a good selection of nominees. I therefore urge  you to support 
them in the election.  
Siemens’ decision to spin off the Energy sector and found Siemens Energy has focused at all 
times bilaterally on the sustainable success of both Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG. 
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG, Mr. Jim Snabe, and I in my former 
capacity as President and CEO of that company, made important choices to set the course 
of that process. Those included making an early decision on a successor for the position of 
President and CEO of Siemen s AG and on the focus of the Executive Board of Siemens 
Energy. I agreed to support the advancement of Siemens Energy as Chairman of its 
Supervisory Board.  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the Chairman of  the Supe rvisory Board  
 
  Page  9 of 10 As had long been planned, my term as a member of the Managing Board and as President 
and CEO of Sie mens AG ended at the end of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens 
AG on February 3, 2021. Day after tomorrow, on February 12, 2021, I will resign from my 
position on the Supervisory Board of Siemens Limited India. After that point I will no longer 
have any ties or obligations to Siemens AG.  
Nevertheless, it is essential for us to address all reservations shareholders may potentially 
have, even if all criteria have been met formally. For that reason, in Mr. Lienhard the 
Supervisory Board has appointed  a special member, with regard to Siemens AG, upon 
whose election Siemens will be voting only with a significantly reduced number of votes. That 
emphasizes Mr. Lienhard’s special position, which is based on the role of a “lead 
independent director.”  It als o complies with the terms of the release of control agreement 
with Siemens AG and Siemens Beteiligungen Inland GmbH.  
One of the Supervisory Board’s most important committees is the Audit Committee, which is 
to have a majority of independent members at the  least. The Supervisory Board believes it 
wise for Prof. Thomas, with his extensive expertise and experience, to start out as chairman 
of this important committee. This is also a matter of great significance for a smooth transition 
that will ensure the con tinuing integrity of the internal controlling system and compliance at 
the new company.  After this transitional period, plans call for the Audit Committee to be 
chaired by an entirely independent member of the Supervisory Board. Regarding that point, 
we ha ve agreed that Mr. Thomas will resign as Chairman of the Audit Committee as of the 
end of the next Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in February 2022.  
A strong Supervisory Board must also include excellent representatives of the employees. 
Our constituting mee ting with the employee representatives was held on December 4, 2020. 
The following members were appointed to represent the employees:  
Mr. Günter Augustat, Mr. Manfred Bäreis, Dr. Andrea Fehrmann, Dr. Andreas Feldmüller, 
Ms. Nadine Florian, Mr. Rüdiger Gro ss, Mr. Horst Hakelberg, Mr. Robert Kensbock,           
Mr. Jürgen Kerner and Mr. Hagen Reimer.  
I look forward to working with all the members of the Supervisory Board. The great 
opportunity offered by the principle of co -determination lies in a construct ive coexistence of 
the shareholders’ and employees’ sides, for the benefit of the company.  An up -to-date social 
partnership will also be an important factor in our joint efforts to carry out an energy transition 
that must integrate ecological, economic and  social aspects alike.  
Siemens Energy  Annual Shareholders‘ M eeting 2021  
Speech of the Chairman of  the Supe rvisory Board  
 
  Page  10 of 10 The Supervisory Board also gave consideration to the compensation system for the 
Executive Board and the compensation of the Supervisory Board. These points are being 
submitted for your decision under Agenda Items 6 and 7. I will pr ovide a separate overview 
of them for you before we turn to answering your questions.  
Ladies and Gentlemen,  
I want to thank the members of the Executive Board and the employees of Siemens Energy 
AG and all its Group companies for their outstanding commitm ent over the past fiscal year. 
The year’s conditions reached historic levels of difficulty.  
Yet at the same time it was also a very special year for Siemens Energy: the year when a 
new company was born. We now have the possibility of achieving something t ruly great 
together for all our stakeholders. The start may be difficult, but the opportunities for the long 
term are great. After all, we have no “Planet B.”  
Thank you very much.  
*** 