
Latest update: January 2 7, 2021
The following contains all shareholder proposals to be made available (counterproposals and election nominations by share-
holders as defined in Sections 126 and 127 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG)) concerning items on the Agenda of the 
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 2021, if applicable  along with the content to be added in accordance with Section 127 sentence 4 
AktG. In all cases, the shareholder proposals and supporting information reflect the views of the persons who submitted them. 
Assertions of fact and hyperlinks to third party websites were also posted on the Internet unchanged and unchecked by us to the 
extent that they are required to be disclosed. Siemens Energy AG does not assume any responsibility for said content, nor does it 
endorse said websites and their content.
Voting and voting instructions in respect of shareholder proposals  
The Company will treat the published counterproposals as if they had been submitted orally at the  Shareholders’ Meeting.  You 
can vote in favor of shareholder proposals which simply reject the proposal of the  Management by marking the appropriate box 
of the agenda item relating to such shareholder  proposal, i.e. “NO”, on the printed Attendance Notification Form or on our 
Internet Service  at www.siemens -energy.com/agm -service.  Such shareholder proposals are disclosed below without capital 
letters .
Shareholder proposals th at do not only reject the Management proposal but also put forward a  resolution differing in content are 
indicated below with capital letters . If shareholder proposals of  this kind are to be voted on separately at the Shareholders’ 
Meeting and you wish to give instructions  to a proxy representative on how to exercise your voting rights or you wish to submit 
your vote by  absentee voting, please tick the “FOR the proposal”, “AGAINST the proposal” or “ABSTAIN” box as  appropriate to the 
right of each capital letter under the heading “Shareholder counterproposals  and election nominations” on the printed Atten -
dance Notification Form or on our Internet Service.  If you wish to vote on, or abstain from voting on, a shareholder proposal to 
which no capital l etter  has been preassigned  on the printed Attendance Notification Form, please insert the appropriate  capital 
letter in one of the empty boxes provided.

that they are correct, i.e. whether their revenue, profit and debts are stated correctly 
and whether the disclosures on provisions, cash funds and receivables are right. The 
auditing firm EY had conducted these audits for Wirecard since 2009 a nd always 
certified that all the numbers were in order. It was not until KPMG was finally 
engaged as a further auditing firm that doubts began to grow, including among the 
auditors, as to whether the balance sheet was reliable. The auditors from EY then 
refused to sign off on the last annual financial statements, i.e. those for 2019. And 
the auditing firm EY has not just attracted negative attention in relation to Wirecard. 
Michael Frege, the insolvency administrator of Maple Bank, is taking legal action 
against the auditors of EY at Stuttgart Regional Court. EY allegedly helped prepare 
and submit false tax returns (cum -ex transactions aimed at reducing taxes) and 
audited the bank’s annual financial statements. (Damage amounting to €450 million 
was caused) . 
Now there are doubts that EY delivers what society (the general public) expects of it 
and what EY explicitly pledges in its corporate video: “To create trust in capital 
markets.” 
Only four large groups now share the major global engagements between t hem: 
Alongside EY, they are KPMG, PwC and Deloitte, who are termed the Big Four. This 
concentration came about as a result of mergers and because international groups 
usually engage international auditing companies instead of relying on several smaller 
ones. The Wirecard affair should be a reaso n to make an even clearer 
separation between auditing tasks and consulting (as proposed by Michel 
Barnier, the former EU Commissioner for Internal Market and Services). The 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in London, which supervises accounting 
standards of companies, has now formulated guidelines under which auditors who 
give their seal of approval to a company’s balance sheet must not act as consultants 
for the same company. 
I as a shareholder no longer hav e any confidence in EY as independent 
auditors. 
I ask the shareholders of Siemens Energy AG, in particular employee shareholders 
who are committed to sustainability and the company’s long -term success, and 
above all the fund management companies DWS (whi ch lost more than €600 million 
at Wirecard) and Union Investment (which lost €243 million at Wirecard) to endorse 
the motions in the interests of their customers. 
I ask the governing bodies of Siemens Energy AG to make my counterproposals, 
which I have s ubmitted in due time, available in accordance with Sections 126 and 
127 et. seq. of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). 
sgd. H. Schilling  
Shareholder  


The “Dachverband der Kritischen Aktionärinnen und Aktionäre  e.V.”, 
Cologne,  has submitted the following shareholder proposals:  
 
Counterproposals concerning the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens 
Energy AG on Februar y 10, 2021 
 
 
 
 Re Agenda Item 2, “To ratify the acts of the members of the Executive  
Board”  
 
Agenda item 2:  To ratify the acts of the members of the Executive Board  
The Dachverband der Kritischen Aktionärinnen und Aktionäre requests that the acts of 
the members of the Executive Board not be ratified .  
 
Supporting information:  
 
The climate protection measures announced by the Executive Board of Siemens  Energy 
AG do not live up to the Paris Agreement. A concrete roadmap for the company to cut its 
own greenhouse gas emissions in line with the objective of the Paris Agreement to limit 
global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius is urgently needed. A swift reduct ion in the CO 2 
emissions produced from the use of Siemens Energy products (Scope 3 emissions) is 
vital for that.  
 
Withdrawal from coal neither responsible nor uncompromising  
 
So far there has not been a “responsible and uncompromising” exit from coal as 
announced by Chairman of the Supervisory Board Joe Kaeser. The Executive Board 
merely pledges that Siemens Energy will no longer participate in tenders for pure coal -
fired power  plants. An uncompromising approach would have been to at least withdraw 
from bidding processes in which Siemens has already submitted an offer. Siemens 
Energy is still involved in the controversial coal -fired power plant project Jawa 9 and 10 
in Indonesia , for instance. Siemens Energy also intends to adhere to combined heat and 
power plants.  
 
Based on scientific findings, OECD countries should fully phase out coal -fired power 
generation by 2030 at the latest, and all coal -fired power plants should be shut down by 
2040 at the latest , to enable the objective of the Paris Agreement to limit global warming 
to 1.5 degrees Celsius to be achieved. There has been a massive increase in the 
economic and political pressure on the coal industry, which means that Siemen s 
Energy’s half -hearted withdrawal from coal is also not responsible toward its own 
employees. They deserve a clear future perspective beyond fossil energies.  
 
Adhering to gas harbors growing risks  
 
As with the phase -out of coal, a path to phase out the fossil fuel of gas is urgently 
needed so that the Paris Climate Goals can be achieved. By adhering to gas projects 
and pointing to an unrealistically high volume of green hydrogen to justify new gas 
infrastructure, Siemens Energy is blocking the urgently needed expansion of renewable 
energies. Siemens Energy is also taking a growing risk of its own, since large plans to 
expand gas, coupled with the necessary reduction in the use of gas planned throughou t 
the EU, is a recipe for ruinous investment.  
 
Israel: New government plans and protests obstruct gas -fired power plant  
 
The government has decided to expand solar energy on a massive scale and to stop 
issuing new permits to build new gas -fired power plan ts to private enterprises. The 
largest private gas -fired power plant planned in Israel, Reindeer Station, to which 
Siemens Energy wants to supply the technology and in which Siemens is an investor, 
should not be implemented given that. Massive local protes ts continue and put a 
question mark over whether the project will be completed.  
 
Mozambique: Gas turbines for LNG project in a conflict zone  
 
Siemens Energy is to supply gas turbines for an LNG project in Mozambique planned by 
the French oil company Total.  The project is being set up in the Province of Cabo 
Delgado, where there have been attacks on the civilian population by militant groups 
close to the Islamic State (IS) since 2017. The number of murdered persons is estimated 
at over 2,500, and there have been kidnappings and public beheadings. Total has now 
felt compelled to withdraw employees from the project, since attacks are being carried 
out closer and closer to the construction site. As it is, the region cannot expect any 
sustainable development from  the project. The local population, which lives from fishing, 
will lose access to the coast, whose biodiversity is also at acute risk.  
 
 
A Re Agenda Item 3, “To ratify the acts of the members of the Supervisory 
Board”   
Agenda item 3: To ratify the acts of the members of the Supervisory Board  
The Dachverband der Kritischen Aktionärinnen und Aktionäre requests that the acts of 
the members of the Supervisory Board not be ratified .   
 
Supporting information:  
The Supervisory Board of Sieme ns Energy AG does not comply adequately with its 
responsibility to direct the Executive Board to discharge its obligations as regards 
environmental and human rights due diligence and to control that the Executive Board 
discharges them effectively.  
 
Wester n Sahara: Storebrand turns its back on Siemens Energy  
 
Wind turbines from Siemens Gamesa are located in the part of Western Sahara 
occupied by Morocco. International courts have repeatedly made it clear that Western 
Sahara is not part of the territory of Morocco and that the occupation is in contravention 
of international law. Any projects relating to the territory of Western Sahara require the 
prior approval of the legitimate representative of the Sahrawi people. Siemens Gamesa 
has not obtained that permission to date, but instead has deepened its business 
relationship with Morocco even further. At the beginning of September 2020, the 
company confirmed the contract for the 300 -MW Boujdour wind farm, which is to be 
erected in Western Sahara without the approval of the Sahrawi. Siemens Gamesa 
denotes the wind far m as being located “in southern Morocco,” which is in contradiction 
to the UN’s assessment.  
 
So far, neither Siemens nor Siemens Energy have effectively exerted their influence on 
Siemens Gamesa, despite the fact that the problems have been known for year s. Now 
Siemens Energy must also bear the consequences: Norway’s largest private asset 
manager Storebrand has excluded  not only Siemens Gamesa, but also Siemens Energy 
from its own portfolio explicitly for contributing to violations of international law in Western 
Sahara . Before taking that step, Storebrand had – like us to no avail – demanded 
comprehensive human rights due diligence of the projects and their business partners in 
Western Sahara.  
 
Wind farms that do not respect international law and also supp ly 95 percent of the 
energy for an equally  illegal phosphate mine must not be a business model of Siemens 
Energy . If Siemens Gamesa and Siemens Energy continue to ignore the situation in 
Western Sahara, which is now also deteriorating politically (there ha s been war between 
Morocco and the Polisario Front since November 13), and its own obligations as regards 
human rights due diligence, the name of Siemens Energy will probably soon end up on 
further blacklists of sustainability -focused investors. It was for  good reason that 19 
members of the European Parliament warned Siemens last November of “the heavy 
legal and moral risks” of doing business in Western Sahara.  
 
Canada: Hydropower for fracking gas, at the expense of indigenous rights  
 
Siemens Energy is also  involved in the international construction of hydropower plants, 
including together with Voith GmbH as part of the joint venture Voith Hydro. There are 
regularly serious human rights violations and environmental crimes in this business 
segment. One exampl e is the Site C hydropower project on the Peace River in British 
Colombia, Canada. Voith Hydro has just supplied the project with turbines, generators 
and other equipment for the equivalent of  more than €300 million.  
 
There were conflicts even before the c onstruction work commenced: The dam is located 
on the territory of indigenous peoples whose land rights were recognized in a treaty with 
the Canadian state in 1899. In the view of numerous indigenous organizations, the 
vested rights of the indigenous peopl es are again being violated by construction of Site 
C.  
 
Construction of Site C is a disaster for the affected indigenous peoples; their sacred 
burial grounds will be flooded and the migration routes of salmon to their spawning 
grounds will be blocked – factors of huge importance to the indigenous peoples on the 
western coast of Canada.  
 
The project is also not about generating “green electricity.” Site C is being built not to 
cater for the projected energy needs of British Colombia’s population, but for th ose of the 
natural gas industry. The electricity is to be used in plants to liquefy natural gas so that it 
can be transported . Most natural gas in British Columbia is produced using the 
controversial method of fracking. This method involves pumping chemica ls into deep 
rock layers so as to dissolve hydrocarbon compounds and extract oil and gas. Geologists 
warn that fracking may cause earthquakes – a common threat in the western part of the 
North American continent. They could have disastrous effects on a dam  like Site C.  
 
Siemens Energy AG
Chairman of the Supervisory Board: Joe Kaeser 
Executive Board: Christian Bruch, President and Chief 
Executive Officer; Jochen Eickholt, Maria Ferraro,
Tim Oliver Holt
Registered office: Munich, Germany
Commercial registry: Munich, HRB 252581
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG.
siemens-energy.comSiemens Energy AG  
Otto ­Hahn ­Ring 6  
81739 München
Media Relations: press@siemens ­energy.com  
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens energy.com
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed 
by Siemens  AG.
© Siemens Energy, 2020