 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The fourth year since the establishment  of Siemens Energy AG  was again marked by several  meaningful  
events. Despite numerous  regulatory challenges, the Executive Board and its team have managed to 
stabilize the company and position it for success . This is clearly reflected in the 2024 share price 
development and medium -term expectations . 
Fiscal year 2024  was very successful for the  Business Areas  Gas Services, Grid Technologies and 
Transformation of Industry . We even operated at industry -leading margins  in some areas . At our Wind 
Power business Siemens Games a, a multi -year restructuring plan is taking effect , with an expectation 
to break even in fiscal year 2026 . 
At this stage, foresight and stability are  crucial. There are some  important resolutions on this year's AGM 
agenda I would like to discuss in more detail . 
 
Compensation system for Executive Board members  
The current compensation system has proven effective from the Supervisory Board ’s perspective and 
has also received a lot of  support  from you . Consequently, the proposed compensation system, which 
requires your periodic approval, remains largely unchanged . However, it has been supplemented by an 
additional, albeit temporary, component.  
In late  2023, the company entered into a counter -guarantee agreement with the German government to 
secure order guarantees, the so -called "Performance Guarantees". This measure was required  by the 
substantial increase in demand for energy technologies from Siemens Energy. Due to the long lead 
times  of projects within the energy sector, such guarantees are a standard tool in the industry. The 
responsible Federal Ministry applied unusual standards to this type of contract and employment security , 
treating it as a  state aid measure.  
For this reason, Siemens Energy  may neither pay dividends nor grant the Executive  Board members a 
market -standard variable compensation for the period in which the bank guarantees , secured by the 
counter -guarantee , are drawn . Consequently,  the Executive Board members only receive their fixed 
compensation, which is currently just about 35% of the market -standard target income . Based on the 
company's performance in fiscal year 2024, including the share price development , it is only 20%.  
The challenge for the Supervisory Board was therefore to find a solution within the legal framework that 
would enable the retention of the Executive Board and thus ensure  the company’s further development. 
Following extensive and thorough discussions within the newly established Compensation Committee 
and with the involvement of leading international legal and compensation experts, a compensation 
system was designed  that fulfills these requirements .  

 
 
 A one-time compensation consisting of three components has been defined f or the first fiscal year in 
which the bonus restrictions will not be valid anymore  – we anticipate this to be  fiscal year 202 7. 
In addition to a one -time cash payment (retention component), the members of the Executive Board will 
be granted stock  awards which are vested for a two-year period after the bonus restrictions and are 
based on the company’s performance.   
These two components constitute a significant part of the one -time compensation. The equity 
component will measure the company's development over a two -year period in terms of share price 
performance, earnings per share, and ESG targets. This is comparable to the regular long -term variable 
compensation component provided as stock awards.  
A third component, also performance -based , will be granted if the Executive Board successfully ends 
the use of the federal guarantee before  the original term concludes , resulting in an expected triple -digit 
million annual fee saving.  These savings result from the Federal Government's imposition of not only 
the highest surety fees in the industry but also a substantial  triple digit million  “success fee ” if the 
company meets its medium -term business plan.  
The three components mentioned above will be granted only if the bonus  restrictions have been lifted 
and the respective Executive Board member is still in office at the time of payment.   
We are convinced that the temporarily adjusted compensation system provides adequate incentives for 
the Executive Board to continue its successful work in increasing the company's value and creating new 
job opportunities . With this, the basis for Siemens Energy's long -term development  is set, of which 
shareholders, customers, and employees benefit alike.  Once these restrictions are lifted, we will return 
to the previous compensation system . 
 
Elections to the Supervisory Board  
Another important item on the AGM agenda are the election s to the Supervisory Board. We are 
proposing eight candidates  whose expertise and competencies are tailored to  the company's current 
and future priorities . All candidate s have the time capacity to fulfil their mandates effectively and meet 
the diversity standards expected of a contemporary Supervisory Board.  
The new candidates, Anja-Isabel Dotzenrath and Dr. Feiyu Xu , complement the Supervisory Board 
perfectly with their expertise. Anja-Isabel Dotzenrath has extensive experience in the energy sector and 
recently served  as a managing board member on the customer side . Her insights from th e customer 
perspective will  meaningfully support our strategic decisions. Dr. Feiyu Xu  is an expert in the field of 
digitalization and artificial intelligence. The latter is a key topic to which both , the Executive  Board and 
the Supervisory Board , attach great strategic importance. Consequently,  we will establish  a new 
committee on "Digitalization and AI" in the Supervisory Board . Dr. Feiyu Xu will be a member of this 
committee and is expected to become the cha ir in the medium term.  
In order to meet the  investors' preferences  for a so -called "staggered board", the term of the two new 
candidates will be three years, while the other candidates for re -election are proposed for a four-year 
term. 
I would like to sincerely thank Dr. Christine  Bortenlänger and Hildegard  Müller , who are not up for re -
election, for their valuable contributions over the past four years, especially in the demanding  Audit 
Committee. Dr. Xu  is intended to succeed them in the Audit Committee . Mr. Gabriel is proposed to take 
over Dr. Bortenlänger's position on the Remuneration Committee. We aim to reduce the number of 
members of the Audit Committee and the Sustainability and Finance Committee to a total of six . 
I myself seek your approval for an other term as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy 
AG. As I emphasized upon my election four years ago, maintaining the independence of the Supervisory 
Board is of utmost importance to me. In this context , my understanding of my role is guided by the  
principle  that I always perform my duties on the Supervisory Board and its committees independently of 
previous functions, even if these do not formally constitute a constraint . 
 
 
 Therefore, the significance of the "Lead Independent Director" will be further strengthened . Typically, 
this individual is a member of the Presiding Committee, serves as the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, and is a member of the Nomination Committee. Dr. Hubert Lienhard is expected to continue 
to fulfill this now prominent role as Lead Independent Director, ensuring the protection of the interests 
of non -major shareholders.   
Over the past four years, the Supervisory Board, along with the Executive Board, has guided the 
company through challenging periods, stabilized it, and focused on  profitable growth. This requires 
careful judgment, foresight, and significant experience. The outstanding performance of  the Siemens 
Energy share  reflects this real turning point . Therefore, we are ready to stand for the next term of office 
to maintain Siemens Energy's current successful trajectory.  
 
Virtual Annual General Meeting  
As in previous years, the Annual General  Meeting 2025 will be held in a virtual format.  
At the AGM 2024, there was a lively exchange with many shareholders and shareholder representatives 
during the general debate. We received a lot of positive f eedback from shareholders regarding the first -
time public broadcast of the entire AGM  and the opportunity to ask questions in English. These extended 
possibilities to participat e will be offered again at the Annual General  Meeting  2025 to facilitate intensive 
communication with the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board.  
Siemens Energy has never held a physical AGM so far . In this respect, I believe that a physical, in -
person Annual General Meeting  in 2026 should be considered for comparison purposes. We have 
therefore reserved suitable premises for 2026. Nevertheless, the extension of the authorization for a 
virtual Shareholders’ Meeting  is necessary for reasons of flexibility , and accordingly, we kindly ask for  
your approval under this condition.   
I very much look forward to exchang ing views with you at our Annual General Meeting on February 20, 
2025.  
 
Joe Kaeser  
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG  
 
