SPEECH TO OPEN THE VIRTUAL
ANNUAL SHAREHOLDERS ’MEETING 2025
OFSIEMENS ENERGY AG
Joe Kaeser
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of
 Siemens Energy AG
Munich, February 20, 2025
The version published here in advance reflects the content of the main part of the
speech by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Some parts of the formal
information on the course of the General Meeting are not included. The speech given
orally during the General Meeting may deviate from this preliminary draft, in particular
to take current developments into account. The spoken word as delivered in German
shall prevail.
Joe Kaeser: Speech to open the virtual Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025
Page 2 of 8Dear Shareholders,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
As Chairman of the Supervisory Board, I hereby open the Annual Shareholders’
Meeting 2025 of Siemens Energy AG, which will be held as a virtual Shareholders’
Meeting within the meaning of the German Stock Corporation Act and take the chair in
accordance with the Articles of Association. On behalf of the Supervisory Board and
the Executive Board, I would like to welcome all shareholders and their proxy
representatives, as well as all the other guests following our Shareholders’ Meeting on
the Internet.
Today, we are reporting to you on our fourth year as an independent, listed company.
As you have no doubt noticed, each of these four years has been very eventful – each
in its own way, but no less challenging. The general situation has not become any
easier in 2024. On the contrary.
Next week marks the sad anniversary of the terrible war of aggression against Ukraine;
the war is now entering its fourth year and there is still no clear solution in sight. The
conflict in the Middle East remains unresolved. The geo-economic and geo-strategic
challenges in and around China are increasing. And the world is eagerly watching to
see how "Trump 2.0" plays out.
The age of electrification has finally gained momentum
All of this has significant implications for global companies like Siemens Energy,
requiring a high degree of adaptability in the company's organizational structures and
value chains. This need is being reinforced by technological disruption. Increasing
digitalization, especially the exponential development of artificial intelligence, is driving
the world's hunger for energy. The age of electrification has finally gained momentum.
As a result, the global demand for energy continues to grow and will increase massively
in the coming decades. With its strong product portfolio and service network, Siemens
Energy is well positioned to benefit from this transformation. To be clear, Siemens
Energy is a company with a great future.
However, we are particularly affected by global competition in the areas of energy
systems, their development and production. Siemens Energy competes with other
global and excellently positioned companies. On the procurement side, global
competition leads to bottlenecks in materials and skilled labor. On the sales side, the
pressure to localize is increasing due to more subtle demands in the Asian region, as
well as the more overt political slogans we are seeing west of the Atlantic.
Therefore, companies like Siemens Energy also need a reliable framework and
planning security  wherever possible in this country. Business can deal with many
things - but not regulatory volatility and political unpredictability . Ultimately, it must be
Joe Kaeser: Speech to open the virtual Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025
Page 3 of 8in the interest of politicians to promote and support companies in their own country in
order to increase orders and thus employment. I will come back to that later.
Siemens Energy will certainly do its part. For the benefit of its employees, its customers
and, of course, its shareholders. Our performance in fiscal year 2024 has shown what
is possible in the face of considerable political adversity.
I am now in the middle of my report on the business development of Siemens Energy
and the activities of the Supervisory Board during the past fiscal year. I will focus on
the points that are of particular importance to today's Annual Shareholders' Meeting.
The complete report of the Supervisory Board can be found on pages 155 to 161 of
the Annual Report 2024.
The main points of my speech are:
 the compensation system for the members of the Executive Board , which
is proposed to you for approval under Item 7 of this Agenda;
 the elections to the Supervisory Board , Item 8 of the Agenda; and
 the amendment to the Articles of Association regarding a virtual Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting , Item 10 of the Agenda.
Strong economic development
Fiscal year 2024 was a good year for Siemens Energy. With the broadest and highest
quality portfolio in the industry, the company is well positioned to meet today's
challenges and has excellent long-term prospects. As I mentioned earlier, we are
entering a new era of electrification. Developments in digitalization, microelectronics
and, above all, artificial intelligence will massively increase global energy demand.
Siemens Energy stands to benefit greatly from this development.
The development of the individual business units is correspondingly positive: Gas
Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry had an extremely
successful fiscal year. At Wind Power Business, Siemens Gamesa, the implementation
of the multi-year restructuring plan is well underway. The Executive Board expects to
reach break-even again in fiscal year 2026. Dr. Bruch will report to you in detail.
The market has recognized the potential of Siemens Energy. Confidence in the
company's potential and in its employees' ability to realize it has grown enormously.
The rapid development of the share price over the past year speaks for itself.
The fact that the company is doing so well is largely due to CEO Dr. Christian Bruch
and his colleagues on the Executive Board. With prudence and wisdom, he has steered
Siemens Energy through very difficult times and brought stability in the face of massive
headwinds.
The management team has also convincingly communicated Siemens Energy's
performance and potential to customers and employees. Now it is imperative we
Joe Kaeser: Speech to open the virtual Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025
Page 4 of 8reliably achieve our ambitious medium-term goals. The groundwork has been laid. And
laying that foundation was truly a Herculean task.
This brings me to the first point of the priorities I would like to address:
Remuneration of the members of the Executive Board
Guarantees are a standard instrument in the energy sector to secure large customer
orders with long project durations. These are known as performance bonds. As early
as 2023, Siemens Energy saw enormous growth in demand for energy technologies.
Even higher growth rates were forecast for the following years. As a result, up to
10,000 new jobs  are expected to be created at Siemens Energy.
Due to increasing concentration risks and rising interest rates, private banks were no
longer able to provide the bank guarantees associated with potential order growth. In
2023, the Executive Board negotiated a counter-guarantee with the German
government to secure these so-called performance guarantees. Such guarantees are
widely used in Germany as a tool to secure the future of sites and jobs  and are
common in the industry. After initially constructive negotiations, the Federal Ministry
for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection decided to treat the counter-guarantee as
a state aid measure, even though it is unrelated to such an instrument.
This has several consequences. First, Siemens Energy is not allowed to pay any
dividends during the period in which the counter-guarantee was used to issue secured
guarantee bonds. In addition, the company may not grant any variable compensation
to the Executive Board for this period. As a result, the Executive Board only receives
their fixed compensation. This fixed compensation as a percentage of total
compensation is significantly below average in the market context: it amounts to only
about 35 percent of the market-standard target income. Considering the company's
performance in fiscal year 2024, including share price performance, it is only 20
percent.
This presented the Supervisory Board a particular challenge: it was necessary to find
a solution within the framework of the unfavorable contractual conditions to make it
possible to retain the Executive Board and ensure the continuity of the company.
Ladies and gentlemen , I would like to emphasize once again that finding a fair
solution was essential for the success of the company. The process was
correspondingly arduous and complex.
After long and intensive discussions, particularly in the newly formed Remuneration
Committee, and with the involvement of several leading legal and compensation
experts, the Supervisory Board defined a temporary compensation concept that meets
these requirements. The details of this compensation system are described in detail in
the notice of the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG, which was
published on December 19, 2024.
Joe Kaeser: Speech to open the virtual Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025
Page 5 of 8Dear Shareholders,  we are convinced that ensuring stability in the Executive Board
is essential for the sustainable future success of Siemens Energy. And we are
convinced that we have the right Executive Board and an outstanding "Team Purple"
to keep the company on track for success in the new era of electrification in the interest
of customers, employees and shareholders and to create even more value for these
stakeholders. Fiscal year 2024 marks an impressive start in this regard.
Elections to the Supervisory Board
To be even better prepared for this future, we want to expand the Supervisory Board
with a new committee: "Digitalization and Artificial Intelligence (AI) ”. These topics
are central to every company and hold enormous operational and strategic potential
for Siemens Energy.
I am therefore very pleased that Dr. Feiyu Xu is standing for election as a new member
of the Supervisory Board. Dr. Xu is an expert in artificial intelligence, particularly in the
intelligent transformation of large industrial enterprises using AI and the effective use
of AI. She will be a member of the aforementioned "Digitalization and AI" committee
and will take over its leadership in the medium term. Anja-Isabel Dotzenrath is also
standing for election as a new member of the Supervisory Board. Ms. Dotzenrath was
most recently a member of the Executive Board of a global energy company. She
brings many years of experience from a customer perspective. Siemens Energy will
also benefit from this important perspective on strategic issues.
The Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG proposes to today's Annual
Shareholders' Meeting to elect Dr. Xu and Ms. Dotzenrath as new members of the
Supervisory Board. The two candidates are to succeed the current members Dr.
Bortenlänger and Ms. Müller. Both will not be available for re-election after this Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting. Dr. Bortenlänger and Ms. Müller have contributed to the
successful work of the Supervisory Board with their constructive and goal-oriented
contributions. I would like to thank them both very much for their consistently good
collaboration!
In addition to the first-time election of Dr. Xu and Ms. Dotzenrath, the following six
members of the Supervisory Board are standing for re-election under Item 8 of our
Agenda: Mr. Sigmar Gabriel, Mr. Joe Kaeser, Dr. Hubert Lienhard, Ms. Laurence
Mulliez, Mr. Matthias Rebellius and Ms. Geisha Williams. The candidates standing for
re-election will again be proposed for a four-year term of office. The respective terms
of office of Ms. Dotzenrath and Dr. Xu are proposed to be three years, in order to
maintain our goal of a " staggered board ".
By resolution of November 12, 2024, the Supervisory Board strengthened the role of
theLead Independent Director . The Lead Independent Director is a member of the
Supervisory Board who meets the strict independence criteria of major investors and
proxy advisors. The special rights include membership in the Chairman's Committee
and the Nomination Committee as well as the chairmanship of the Compensation
Joe Kaeser: Speech to open the virtual Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025
Page 6 of 8Committee. In this way, the Supervisory Board underlines the importance it attaches
to its independence. Dr. Lienhard is to continue in this function after his re-election.
I also ask for your approval for a further term as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of
Siemens Energy AG. As you know, the independence of the Supervisory Board is a
top priority for me. In addition to complying with the formal rules of the German
Corporate Governance Code, my understanding of my role is explicitly guided by the
principle that I will always perform my duties on the Supervisory Board independently
of any previous functions. My focus is solely on the good of Siemens Energy.
I am convinced that with the proposed composition, the Supervisory Board is
excellently positioned to meet the challenges of the future – and this explicitly includes
the employee representatives. Over the past four years, the Supervisory Board,
together with the Executive Board, has steered the company through very difficult
times, stabilized it and refocused it on profitable growth. The outstanding performance
of Siemens Energy in the past fiscal year is impressive proof that prudence, experience
and focus pay off. I am confident the newly elected and re-elected members of the
Supervisory Board, with their extensive experience, diversity and expertise, will
successfully lead the company into the future. I therefore ask for your support in
electing the proposed candidates.
Format of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting
Today's Annual Shareholders’ Meeting is once again being held virtually. We have had
good experience with this format and have optimized the processes. At the virtual AGM
in 2024, there was a lively exchange with numerous shareholders and shareholder
representatives during the general debate. We also received a lot of positive feedback
from our shareholders regarding the first-time public broadcast of the entire AGM and
the opportunity to ask questions in English. Accordingly, we are offering these
opportunities again this year. In all of this, the protection of shareholder rights is of
paramount importance.
Today we are asking you to extend the authorization for a virtual AGM. We believe this
is necessary for reasons of flexibility alone. We are planning to hold an in-person
Annual Shareholders' Meeting in 2026. This will be Siemens Energy's first in-person
event and will allow us to truly compare the various options.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Siemens Energy is on the right track. The share price - up 320 percent in one year -
speaks for itself. Siemens Energy continues to face intense times. Exorbitant growth
creates both opportunities and challenges. The restructuring and strategic realignment
of the wind business is a major task.
The effects of the "turning point" in geopolitics on the energy sector are difficult to
discern. But the company is well prepared: the portfolio is strong. With Team Purple,
Joe Kaeser: Speech to open the virtual Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025
Page 7 of 8the Executive Board has demonstrated that restructuring and growth can be achieved
simultaneously. This is a rare accomplishment - and it builds trust for the future.
In this spirit, I hope that we can all look forward to a constructive Annual General
Meeting with good discussions.
Thank you for your attention.
Joe Kaeser: Speech to open the virtual Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025
Page 8 of 8NOTES AND FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains statements related to our future business and financial
performance, and future events or developments involving Siemens Energy that may
constitute forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words
such as “expect,” “look forward to,” “anticipate” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,”
“estimate,” “will,” “project,” or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward-
looking statements in other reports, prospectuses, in presentations, in material
delivered to shareholders, and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may
from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Such statements are based
on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens Energy´s
management, of which many are beyond Siemens Energy´s control. These are subject
to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including, but not limited to, those
described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter “Report on expected
developments and associated material opportunities and risks” in the Annual Report.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, should acts of force
majeure, such as pandemics, occur, or should underlying expectations including future
events occur at a later date or not at all, or should assumptions prove incorrect,
Siemens Energy´s actual results, performance, or achievements may (negatively or
positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant
forward-looking statement. Siemens Energy neither intends, nor assumes any
obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of
developments which differ from those anticipated. Due to rounding, numbers
presented throughout this and other documents may not add up precisely to the totals
provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.