 
SPEECH AT THE ANNUAL VIRTUAL SHAREHOLDERS ' 
MEETING OF SIEMENS ENERGY AG  
Dr. Christian Bruch  
President and Chief Executive Officer  of 
Siemens Energy AG  
Munich, February 20, 2025  
 
 
 
 
The report presented at the Annual Shareholders’  Meeting will be delivered orally in 
German and may also deviate in its content from this version published in advance, in 
particular to take account of developments that have occurred in the meantime.   
 
The report as orally delivered in German takes precedence.  
. 
  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025  
 Page 2 from 10 “We energize society. ” 
That is our purpose .  
Helping  our customers to transform their energy supply. With our broad and innovative 
portfolio. And with our global implementation expertise.  
We energize society: But above all, this stands for the best team in our industry. We 
call it “Team Purple ”. Our 100,000 colleagues. From over 150 nations. They work every 
day to ensure a safe and reliable energy supply. On this basis, economies and 
societies can evolve . I would like to thank you, dear employees, from the bottom of my 
heart for your daily commitment.  
It is a real privilege for me to work with this team.  
 
Dear shareholders,  
Welcome to our Annual Shareholders’  Meeting 2025.  
I am pleased to present to you today the results for the fiscal year 2024. Of course, I 
will also give you the outlook for 2025. I will show you how we are successfully 
positioning Siemens Energy.  
How do we create value for our shareholders?  For you?  
• Firstly : We are operating in an attractive market.  The global electricity demand 
is growing continuously . And with it the demand for our products and services.  
• Secondly : We have a robust business model . Our order backlog has grown by 
a good 46  % over the past three years. Around half of this backlog is long -term 
service business. This means that we can already make a good estimate of future 
sales .  
• Thirdly : We are excellently positioned.  With our broad portfolio, we can serve 
our customers in all regions of the world. And from a leading market position.  
We are at the beginning of a new age . The age in which electricity determines the 
energy world. Our environment  will fundamentally change . It offers great opportunities 
for our company. We want to exploit these consistently. And that is why three elements 
are central to our strategy:  
• Firstly , resilience in a transforming world . 
• Secondly, building the transforming energy world.  
• Thirdly, transform the way we operate.  
 
Transformation  is the central theme of our time. Shaping change is my top priority. This 
aspiration determines all three strategic priorities.  
And that brings me to the first point:  
 
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025  
 Page 3 from 10 Resilience in a transforming world . 
The world is changing rapidly. Let  us seize the opportunities presented by change . And 
at the same time overcome unexpected challenges.  
There is currently an extremely high level of investment in the energy market. 
Particularly in the electricity market. Global demand for electricity is set to increase by 
around 50 percent over the next 15 years. At the same time, existing infrastructure 
needs to be modernized. Both offer us growth opportunities. And along the entire  value 
chain, starting with renewables and conventional power generation. On to the grids. 
To industrial applications.  
We are excellently positioned in this growing electricity market. Our business is based 
on many years of experience and strong technological expertise. The  entry  barriers 
into this market are therefore high.  
But what makes us a leading company in our industry?  
Our portfolio covers the entire energy value chain. We are the global market leader in 
offshore wind power. This also applies to our grid solutions business. And in our 
important business with large gas turbines, we are a strong number 2.  
We have a broad customer base. It makes us more resilient to market fluctuations. We 
generate 42  % of our revenue  in Europe . We make  30 % in America . In Asia, it is  
18 %. And 10  % in the rest of the world. More than a third of our revenue  come s from 
our high -margin service business.  
We are at home in our markets. We are on the ground . As a local partner for our 
customers . We are a European company in Europe. We are a US company in the USA. 
And we are a Chinese company in China. We employ thousands of people in each of 
these countries. This makes us less vulnerable to trade conflicts . 
Our close relationship with our customers pays off in many ways. In 2024, we were 
able to increase customer satisfaction by five points to 62 compared to the previous 
year. This figure indicates the extent to which customers recommend our products and 
services to others. Why is this so important? Technological expertise is of utmos t 
importance in large infrastructure projects. But it is only one aspect. Ultimately, it is the 
trust of our customers that counts . And mutual appreciation. This often develops ov er 
decades. When this satisfaction grows, it speaks for the excellent work of our 
employees. Because in this turbulent world,  it is always our customers who they focus 
on. 
The order backlog rose to 123 billion euros in 2024 . Thanks to our positioning and 
good customer relationships . More than a third of this, 50.2 billion euros, was added to 
our order books in the past year alone. And we were able to further increase the 
profitability of our order backlog.  
In short, our good regional distribution and broad customer base form a reliable basis 
for future revenue . 
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025  
 Page 4 from 10 For us, resilience also means further improving our supplier base and supply chains.  
Our supplier base is now much broader than in the previous year. We have significantly 
reduced the number of high -risk suppliers, particularly those with a significant impact 
on our business . By more than 50 percent.  We have also made progress with capacity 
risks.  Capacity risks arise when suppliers are unable to deliver sufficient quantities.  We 
reduced these risks by 20 % last year.  We have also been able to attract more suppliers 
from our European home markets. All of this makes us less dependent on individual 
partners. It reduces costs. And it strengthens the resilience of Siemens Energy.  
The past fiscal year has been remarkable for us in every way. It was the year after the 
immense  loss of 4.6 billion euros in 2023. Financial resilience was therefore at the 
heart of all our efforts. I am delighted this work is also reflected in the figures: We had 
orders of more than 50 billion euros . As a result , the order backlog reached a new 
record at the end of the financial year. 123 billion euros . And with a further improvement 
in margin quality. On a comparable basis, revenue rose by 12.8  % to 34.5 billion euros. 
Earnings before special items amounted to 345 million euros. The profit  margin 
before special items of 1  % was at the upper end of the forecast range of -1 % to  
+1 %. Finally, free cash flow before taxes rose to 1.859 billion euros. This was more 
than twice as high as in the previous year.  
All in all, very solid figures . Improved operating performance in the individual 
businesses  contributed to this. Divestments also contributed to this. We have further 
sharpened our portfolio. Among other things, we sold the Trench Group . The  grid 
components business. We also sold our shareholdings in Windar in Spain and 
Maschinenfabrik Reinhausen in Germany. In addition, we sold an 18  % stake in 
Siemens Limited India. In total, special items from disposals  amounted to almost 2 .179 
million euros.  This contributed to the positive result in 2024.  
The rating agency S&P raised the outlook for Siemens Energy from negative to neutral 
in December 2024. Thanks to our improved financial situation . 
The improve d financial performance will also help us to redeem the counter -
guarantees from the federal government. We want to achieve this as quickly as 
possible. Because that is the prerequisite for Siemens Energy being able to pay a 
dividend again.  
In a rapidly changing world, Siemens Energy is more resilient than many other 
industrial companies . This remains a central element of our strategy. This enables 
us to successfully utilize the opportunities in our market environment. And create value 
for you, our shareholders.  
 
 
Building the transforming energy world.  
And that brings us to the second topic. Namely, the question of how we shape  an 
energy world  that is changing so much . First of all, this requires one thing: the expertise 
to implement our products and projects worldwide. I will explain why this is a 
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025  
 Page 5 from 10 competitive advantage using a few examples. And for this, I have invited my colleague,  
Jennie Freitag. She is the lead engineer in our grid business.  
• Christian Bruch: Dear Ms. Freitag, welcome . You and your team have built a 
converter platform in Cádiz, Spain, together with partners and customers.  How can 
one imagine this?  
• Jennie Freitag: A converter platform is needed to connect offshore wind farms , 
that are further out to sea , with the mainland. Our DolWin  kappa, for example, 
transmits 900 megawatts. When my daughter asks me: What is 900 megawatts? I 
always say: that's enough energy to supply a million households with electricity.  
• Christian Bruch: That's a huge number.  
• Jennie Freitag: Yes. T he construction we need for this is also huge. Take a look: 
the platform next to you is actually much, much bigger. It rises 56 meters out of the 
sea. As high as an 18 -storey building. It weighs around 11,000 tons . And has to be 
anchored with 10 steel piles . They are  driven 60 meters deep into the seabed.  
• Christian Bruch: Why do you need this huge construction?  
• Jennie Freitag: Huge is a good way of putting it . But the construction is also very 
complex. In the platform, we convert alternating current from several wind farms 
into direct current . We  transport it loss -free over 90 kilometers to land. There, the 
direct current is converted back into alternating current and fed into the grid. It is a 
complex interplay of different technologies.  
• Christian Bruch : Thank you very much . You go the extra mile for our customers . 
Engineers like you are the heart of Siemens Energy. And it is you who are shaping 
a new energy world. Thank you very much.  
But this is just one example of our implementation strength. What would such a record -
breaking platform be without a record -breaking wind turbine? Today, many of them are 
equipped with our 14 -megawatt  turbine. As the world market leader, however, we are 
one step ahead in terms of technology. What will the next generation of turbines look 
like? We are currently building the prototype of this turbine at the national  test center 
in Denmark. It has  135-meter -long  rotor blades . Significantly longer than a soccer  
field. Now it  is up to our engineers to gain experience   
Our portfolio for offshore wind turbines is the key driver for the turnaround in our wind 
business. The market is set to grow by 27  % by 2030. We are already the global market 
leader here with our existing portfolio.  
At the same time, we are stabilizing our business with onshore wind turbines. And we 
are improving our service business.  
In short, we are continuing to work on returning our wind business to profitability in 
2026.  
 
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025  
 Page 6 from 10 The energy world is changing . And we are actively shaping this change . In 2025, we 
will invest around two billion euros in our existing locations and in new capacities. In 
doing so, we are promoting the growth of our core business.  
We are building a new factory in Nuremberg for our grid business. There we produce 
converters that transform alternating current into direct current. In Weiz, Austria, we 
are tripling the production area of our wind transformer factory. In order to meet th e 
demand for transformers in the USA, we are investing 150 million US dollars in our site 
in Charlotte, North Carolina. We are creating almost 600 new jobs there. In total, we 
want to create 6,000 new jobs in our grid business alone by 2028.  
But a portfolio and factories are not enough in the energy business. The basis for our 
success is the people in the company. They make the difference. That is why the 
training and development of our employees is so important to us. Capable junior staff 
are a key pillar of our success.  
As an example, I would like to show you what industrial training at Siemens Energy 
looks like.  
• Christian Bruch: The best person to tell us more about our training is Christoph 
Kunz. He is our training manager . Siemens Energy is growing . And we are  creating 
many new jobs. At the same time, demographic change means there are fewer and 
fewer young applicants. Christoph, w hat are we doing to make Siemens Energy 
attractive to young people?   
• Christoph Kunz : Four years ago, we began to radically rethink our training . We  
completely geared our public image towards Generation Z. Our new training 
concept is highly attractive to young people. The courage to explore new ways of 
doing things  has paid off. But even more importantly: Siemens Energy is operating 
in a highly exciting market environment. Everyone is talking about energy 
technology. What you wouldn't have thought possible just a few years ago: the topic 
of energy is considered cool  by many y oung people.  
• Christian Bruch: I have to agree with the  teenagers . That is good to hear. How 
have our training figures developed?  
• Christoph Kunz: Tremendously . The number of trainees in Germany alone has 
more than doubled. We are currently recruiting more than 550 young people for the 
start of training in 2025. We can only manage this growth because we have 
consistently invested in training. In Germany, we have strengthened our training 
team . We have  expanded the training centers in Hamburg, Mülheim and Erlangen. 
And w e have also expanded training at many locations internationally.  
• Christian Bruch: If we take a look at the training occupations. What kind of content 
do we need?  
• Christoph Kunz : We have developed our training both strategically and 
qualitatively. To this end, we have concentrated our offering from 68 to 32 core 
professions . And we  added new topics. Resilience, agile project management, data 
analytics and artificial intelligence . These  are just a few examples.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025  
 Page 7 from 10 • Christian Bruch:  Well, it has been a while since we were trainee age . You read a 
lot about the generation gap . And how baby boomers don't understand Generation 
Z. And vice versa. Is that an issue in training?  
• Christoph Kunz : Absolutely an  important topic  for us. That's why our trainers also 
had to explore new ways of thinking  in many areas. We have focused very 
intensively on GenZ and Alpha. Our trainers were specially trained by a generation 
researcher . He knows exactly how best to motivate this generation. Because, they 
have grown up with the internet and digital technologies.  
• Christian Bruch: Thank you very much, Christoph Kunz . Very interesting.  
Siemens Energy needs a lot of talent to manage complex projects. Talents we attract 
through our training, among other things. They are a cornerstone of our success. This 
is the key. This is how we  benefit  from a rapidly changing energy world.  Talent, our 
excellent portfolio and local value creation is what sets us apart.  
 
 
Transform the way we operate . 
Let me come to the third and final point of our strategy: We transform the way we 
operate .  
 
Dear shareholders,  
How can we improve every day and become more effective?  
Let me start with a topic that is a top priority for me. The safety of our employees. 
Ensuring they can return to their families and friends safe and sound after work . This  
is our top priority. The overall accident rate for employees and contractors fell last year.  
That was a step in the right direction. But we still have a way to go. Our goal is zero 
accidents at Siemens Energy. There are no compromises here. Only those who 
successfully implement safety can lead a business into a positive future.  
And for me, a positive future means that each of our businesses must have a leading 
market position.  Each of our businesses must generate a double -digit profit margin 
in the medium term. We have the right portfolio for this. And the right people too.  
Now we need to get better every day at how we do things. Clear responsibilities and 
decision -making structures. Processes based on data and digitalization. And a 
corporate culture in which cost awareness plays an even more central role . 
Keyword: clear and fast decisions . We took the first step two years ago. We 
drastically reduced the number of hierarchical levels in our company. This allowed us 
to react more flexibly and quickly to changes in the market.  
A phase of strong growth lies ahead of us. This is the right time to further optimize our 
processes.  By making decisions closer to the customer, we can reduce internal 
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025  
 Page 8 from 10 bureaucracy. This will enable us to make even better use of the market's growth 
opportunities.  
Keyword : data and digitalization . In recent years, we have continuously invested in 
a better IT infrastructure . And in digital approaches. This not only improves our internal 
processes. We are also creating added value for our customers. For example, through 
the use of  artificial intelligence. For example, we use AI for the design of our gas 
turbines. This improves the design and maintenance quality. With the help of KI, we 
increase the lifetime of the turbine blades by 20%. KI software developed by us also 
optimizes the combustion process in the turbine. This reduces nitrogen oxide 
emissions by 10  %. And we use AI for remote diagnostics. This allows us to detect 
technical faults at an early stage. This avoids costly repairs after breakdowns.  
However, transforming  the way we operate  is not just about internal processes. It is 
also about how we work more closely and effectively with external partners. For 
example, in research and development . Here we bring together different skills in 
mixed teams. For example, we have implemented a pilot project in Saudi Arabia with 
Saudi Aramco, the world's largest energy company . It is about  CO 2 capture . We 
developed the technology together with our customer at our innovation center in the 
USA. We separate the CO 2 from the atmosphere and can store it. The next step is to 
plan a large -scale plant. This example shows: Innovations work best in close 
partnership. With bundled expertise and shared financial risk.  
Continuously becoming more profitable also means focusing even more on cost 
awareness . Especially given the rapid growth of our business.  Every euro we spend 
at Siemens Energy is paid for by our customers or our shareholders. That  is why we 
have to handle this money carefully. Our focus on clear and quick decisions helps us 
to reduce internal bureaucracy. Procedures that do not create any customer benefit. 
This is a path that we have permanently anchored in our corporate culture.  
At Siemens Energy, we are continuing to build on our strengths. Because our 
customers are the first to benefit from a fast, focused and decisive organization. And 
ultimately also you, our shareholders.  
 
 
Outlook and final chord  
This brings me to the end. Let me once again review the past financial year. Overall, 
we look back positively on 2024. But it is no more than a step in the right direction.  
In view of the market situation described above, you, our owners, expect more from us 
in the medium term. And we want to fulfill your expectations.  
I am personally committed to this.  As President and CEO of Siemens Energy .  
That is why I and we have set ourselves ambitious goals for the coming years. We are 
determined to build on the positive development of 2024 . With a clear focus on the 
three strategic priorities outlined above.  
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025  
 Page 9 from 10 The development of our share price shows this: We have regained trust. My sincere 
thanks go to you, our shareholders, for this. The share price rose by 272  % in the 2024 
financial year. In early October  2023,  it stood  at 12.13 euros . A year later, it was already  
almost 33  euros. These are encouraging  figures. However, this development also 
shows: O ur investors  expect a lot  from our future performance. And we want to deliver 
on that .  
For 2025, we expect comparable revenue  growth of 8 to 10  %. And a profit margin 
before special items of 3  to 5 %. For 2028, we anticipate high single -digit to almost 
double -digit revenue  growth . And a margin of 10 to 12  %.  
The figures for the first quarter of 2025 confirm this forecast. You saw it last week. We 
are on the right track. The important thing now is to continue along this path 
consistently.  
 
Dear shareholders,  
There is still a lot to do: I expect top performance from all our businesses. This means 
that every business must achieve  double -digit margins in the medium term. 
Otherwise, Siemens Energy is not the right owner.  
So let me emphasize once again what I said at the beginning. Three things make me 
confident about the future:  
• Firstly : We are operating in an attractive market.  We benefit worldwide from the 
growing demand for electricity  and the need to renew infrastructure.  
• Secondly : We have a robust business model . This is demonstrated by our 
growing order backlog . And this means  security for future  revenue .  
• And thirdly, we are excellently positioned. Our broad portfolio and our leading 
technology make us resilient to market fluctuations . 
With this in mind, we will continue to work consistently on continuously increasing the 
value of Siemens Energy. Thank you for your trust. Also on behalf of the entire 
Managing Board and all our employees.  
Thank you also for participating virtually today. This shows your trust and support once 
again. I look forward to welcoming you to a physical Annual Shareholders’  Meeting in 
2026. We will then look back on a successful financial year 2025.  
Because I am convinced that 2025 will take us further forward. True to our purpose : 
"We energize society".  
Thank you very much for your attention.  
 
Dr. Christian Bruch: Speech at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Siemens Energy AG 2025  
 Page 10 from 10 INFORMATION AND FORWARD -LOOKING STATEMENTS  
 
This document contains statements related to our future business and financial 
performance, and future events or developments involving Siemens Energy that may 
constitute forward -looking statements. These statements may be identified by words 
such as “expe ct,” “look forward to,” “anticipate” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” 
“estimate,” “will,” “project,” or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward -
looking statements in other reports, prospectuses, in presentations, in material 
delivered to sha reholders and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may 
from time to time make verbal forward -looking statements. Such statements are based 
on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens Energy’s 
management, of which many are beyond Siemens Energy’s control. These are subject 
to a number of risks, uncertainties and other fac tors, including, but not limited to, those 
described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter “Report on expected 
developments and associated material o pportunities and risks” in the Annual Report. 
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, should acts of force 
majeure, such as pandemics, occur, or should underlying expectations including future 
events occur at a later date or not at all, or should assumptions prove incorrect, 
Siemens Energy’s actual results, performance, or achievements may (negatively or 
positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant 
forward -looking statement. Siemens Energy  neither intends, nor assumes any 
obligation, to update or revise these forward -looking statements in light of 
developments which differ from those anticipated.  
Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other documents may not 
add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the 
absolute figures.  
 