Combined Cycle Power Plants (CCPP) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Combined cycle power plants We are meeting the growing demand for efficient and sustainable power generation. Our Combined Cycle Power Plants (CCPP) integrate advanced gas and steam turbines to achieve efficiencies in excess of 64%, significantly lower emissions and the flexibility to match output to demand. With innovative single and multi-shaft configurations, we provide reliable and environmentally friendly power generation for both 50 Hz and 60 Hz markets. What is a combined cycle power plant? A combined cycle power plant is a highly efficient type of power plant that uses both gas turbines and steam turbines to generate electricity. But how does it work? By using both a gas turbine and a steam turbine , these plants can generate more electricity from the same amount of fuel compared to a simple cycle gas plant, because it combines two thermodynamic cycles: the Brayton cycle (gas turbine) and the Rankine cycle (steam turbine). Combined cycle power plant diagram The diagram shows a typical combined cycle plant layout and process. 1 Gas turbine The plant burns natural gas to produce hot gases. These gase spin the rotor of a gas turbine driving a generator to produce electricity. 2 Heat recovery steam generator The hot exhaust gases are used in a heat recovery steam generator to produce steam. 3 Steam turbine The steam drives a steam turbine generator producing additional electricity. Fuels for gas turbines While natural gas is the most common fuel, combined cycle power plants can also use a variety of other fuels including hydrogen, biogas, syngas, diesel, hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO), or other gaseous or liquid fuels. Find out more about sustainable fuels Benefits of combined cycle power plants Siemens Energy combines technology, experience, and workforce to provide cutting-edge combined cycle power plants. These technologies aim to deliver a low lifecycle cost of converting fuel into electricity. Higher efficiency By utilizing both gas and steam turbines, CCPPs can achieve efficiencies of over 64%. Lower carbon emissions The efficient use of fuel results in reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Operational flexibility CCPPs can quickly ramp up or down, making them ideal for balancing renewable energy sources. Low electricity costs High performance with low power generation costs to help reduce the levelized cost of energy (LCOE). Our scope of supply for CCPP solutions At Siemens Energy, we are pioneering sustainable power generation with our advanced gas and steam turbines. Our combined cycle power plants, ranging from about 40MW up to 1,800MW, provide unmatched reliability and efficiency for both 50 and 60Hz markets, tailoring single-shaft and multi-shaft configurations to your specific needs. Choose Siemens Energy for fast, precise power plant development . Gas and steam turbines for EPC projects Power island Turnkey power plants Service solutions We offer a large portfolio of gas and steam turbines for EPC projects (Engineering, Procurement, and Construction). With a strong heritage in gas and steam turbine technology, we are committed to decarbonization and the integration of renewable energy sources . Our scope for power islands includes the main components of the power generation system such as the gas turbine, steam turbine, generator, and heat recovery steam generator HRSG). The power island is essentially the heart of the power plant, where the primary energy conversion takes place. Turnkey power plants are delivered ready for operation. The scope includes everything from design and engineering to procurement, construction, and commissioning. Turnkey projects often cover all aspects including civil works, mechanical and electrical systems, control systems, and balance of plant (BOP) components. We invest millions in developing new technologies to improve plant performance , including extending maintenance intervals , reducing emissions , offering operation and fuel flexibility , and enhancing reliability and availability . Explore our modernization and upgrade options for CCPP. Our combined cycle power plants (CCPP) are engineered for high efficiency and cost-effective electricity generation, catering to both 50Hz and 60Hz markets with options for single- and multishaft designs. A single-shaft configuration entails a gas turbine that is directly coupled to a steam turbine, with both sharing a single common generator. Conversely, in a multishaft configuration, each turbine - gas and steam - operates with its own dedicated generator . Single-shaft configuration In a single-shaft configuration, the gas and steam turbines are on one shaft line with a common generator, reducing the number of components. The single-shaft setup offers cost savings of 3-5%, higher efficiency, and a smaller footprint due to fewer mechanical connections and simplified BOP systems. Multi-shaft configuration Multi-shaft configurations use separate generators for each turbine. Multi-shaft configurations are chosen for specific requirements or when the gas turbine operates before the combined cycle development. Power output for combined cycle configurations Combined cycle plants are highly efficient and maximize power output by utilizing both gas and steam turbines to convert excess heat into additional electricity. 1) SGT-A35 (GT61 34MW) DLE, 2) SCC-700 (35MW rating), 3)SCC-800 (62MW rating) Download technical data for our combined cycle portfolio Virtual 360° tour Explore an SGT-800-based combined cycle power plant in our virtual 360° tour! Start the tour! Use cases and references for combined cycle power plants Siemens Energy has decades of experience in the design and commissioning of combined cycle power plants, with more than 2000 units in operation worldwide. Are you interested in our combined cycle power plants, or our gas turbine portfolio? Gas turbines Aeroderivative, industrial and heavy-duty gas turbines up to 593 MW Learn more Steam turbines Tailor-made steam turbines from 10 kW to 1,900 MW Learn more Generators Optimal power production with 2- and 4-pole high-efficiency generators Learn more Would you like to learn more about our solutions for combined-cycle power plants, please send us an email! Would you like to learn more about our solutions for combined-cycle power plants, please send us an email! Contact us Read more 3 min read Leipziger Stadtwerke, Germany: 100% hydrogen-ready CHP plant September 10, 2019 8 min read From Berlin to Berlin 5 min read Morrow Repower Project, USA: Forward-thinking power generation June 15, 2020 11 min read Efficient floating power See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025