Combined heat and power Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications District heating and industrial heat Decarbonizing heat production with combined heat and power (CHP) and power to heat (P2H) Heat production accounts for half of the world’s final energy consumption and makes up 40% of global carbon dioxide (CO₂) emissions. It also stands as the primary cause of CO₂ emissions within the industrial sector. What is heat decarbonization? Heat decarbonization, also known as heat transition, is a process for reducing CO₂ emissions from heat production. As a first step, this can be achieved by making fuel usage more efficient. Later, this fossil fuel can be replaced with carbon-free fuel. Alternatively, heat production can also be electrified by using power from renewable energy. Existing heat networks can be transformed fast and at a large scale into cost-effective and flexible low-carbon energy systems. What technologies can help to decarbonize heating? There are several applications that can help you to decarbonize heat networks. At Siemens Energy, we provide tailor-made CHP and Power to Heat (P2H) solutions for residential, commercial, or industrial sectors. Gas turbine based CHP solution CHP generates electricity and heat from a single fuel source. Traditional heating plants emit varying amounts of CO 2 depending on the fuel used. Thus, even a simple fuel switch may reduce CO 2 emissions by nearly 50%. Additionally, converting the plant into a GT-powered CHP or a Combined Cycle Power Plant with heat extraction can significantly improve its electrical efficiency. As a result, fuel efficiency can be as high as 90% while using as little fuel as possible. Find out which gas turbine fits best for your application. Power-to-heat technologies Power-to-heat (P2H) can be accomplished through heat pumps or electric boilers. Heat pumps utilize waste or environmental heat, raising its temperature with electricity. They produce the same heat using less electricity than electric boilers, leading to lower operational costs. Electric boilers require minimal capital investment and have quick installation. Induction-based technologies or innovative turboheaters are suitable for industrial processes requiring high temperatures. Explore our industrial-scale heat pump portfolio Clean hydrogen and biofuels Clean fuels, such as green hydrogen or biofuels, can drastically lower CO 2 emissions and eliminate the need for fossil fuels in gas turbines. This is an effective way to future proof a combined cycle power plant and maximize its life cycle. Find out how much carbon footprint you can reduce by burning green hydrogen in your gas turbine. Calculate your carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) reduction and cost-savings potential on carbon certificates. Calculate your CO₂ emission reduction potential Biomass and BECCS Another decarbonization path is to transform fossil-fired heat generation by switching to sustainably produced biomass in Combined Heat and Power plants. When adding Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS), biomass- or biofuel-based CHP plants can be further transformed into bioenergy with carbon capture and storage (BECCS), thus allowing for negative emissions and energy production at the same time. Learn more about our biomass power plant solutions What is the best heat decarbonization option for your infrastructure? For maximum efficiency, it often makes sense to combine different technologies. To make the best choice, there are several factors to consider, such as the required temperature level, dispatchable power needs, green electricity cost, availability of waste heat, and annual heat curve. For instance, if you have a lot of renewable energy, it makes sense to consider Power-to-Heat (P2H). CHP, electric boilers, and heat pumps: heat temperature comparison As most of the factors influencing the technology choice depend on the location of the heating network, there is no one-fits-all solution. However, a pre-selection of suitable technologies can be done, based on the temperature level that is required for the specific application. The matrix below shows the temperature level that can be achieved with different technologies. Contact us today to find the best solution for decarbonizing your heat network! Convert existing plants into cogeneration plants Repurposing existing power plants or heating plants can substantially contribute to decarbonizing your assets. A heating plant can be transformed into a cogeneration plant, and a thermal power plant can be turned into a CHP plant. Alternatively, you can convert the complete thermal plant into a Power to Heat application. With our Brownfield transformation approach, you can convert existing assets within a short time frame into a low-carbon facility while re-using the existing infrastructure as much as possible. Learn more Use renewable energy to generate heat Power-to-heat (P2H) systems signal a paradigm shift in the capabilities of low-carbon energy systems. Since heat pumps or electric boilers can be exclusively powered by green electricity, it allows the integration of renewable energy sources in heat energy production—an integration that is both crucial and long overdue. By adjusting their heat output in response to variations in renewable energy generation, power-to-heat systems can also provide flexibility to the electricity grid. Power-to-heat systems convert surplus renewable energy into usable thermal energy for local or central heating and cooling needs. Learn more Our heat decarbonization solutions provide several benefits Affordability Heat networks can play a major role in decarbonizing heat production at a reasonable cost. The technologies to decarbonize industrial heating and district heating already exist and are ready to be scaled. Sustainability By switching from coal- or oil-based steam plants to Gas Turbine powered CHP it is possible to rapidly reduce carbon emissions. Deep de-carbonization can be achieved by switching from natural gas to biofuels or hydrogen. Even negative CO 2 emissions can be reached by combining Carbon Capture Storage (CCS) with biofuels (BECCS). Due to their high Coefficient of Performance (COP), heat pumps provide low carbon heat. They are completely carbon neutral when powered entirely by renewable energy. Flexibility Heat can be stored significantly more cost effectively than electricity. The combination of P2H with CHP stabilizes the power market. Heat pumps are preferably operated at times of low power prices due to surplus renewable energy. When power prices are high CHP plants can profitably sell power and produce heat at the same time. At peak heat demand it is possible to operate the heat pump together with the CHP plant. Low carbon heat references Mannheim, Germany: Large-scale river heat pump for district heating A new heat pump to help MVV achieve its goal of decarbonizing district heating in Mannheim, Germany Learn more Michigan, USA: New power plant helps improve urban life Replacement of a Holland Board of Public Works coal plant with a new CHP plant at Holland Energy Park Learn more Schwarzheide, Germany: Efficiency at its best Brownfield engine exchange service and modernization of a combned cycle power plant of BASF Learn more Leipzig, Germany: Climate neutral power supply Two cutting-edge gas turbine packages for a new district heating power plant with an expected fuel efficiency of 93% Learn more Contact us for more information about heating solutions Siemens Energy Customer Support +49 911 6505 6505 (Charges depending on provider) +49 180 524 25 71 (Charges depending on provider; from the German fixed network € 0.14/min. and from the German mobile phone networks max. € 0.42/min.) Contact us References June 23, 2022 5 min read Making a power plant future fit - a tailor-made solution for BASF July 24, 2019 5 min read SGT-750 for Grupo Kaltex in Mexico See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025