Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , February  2nd, 2021  
Siemens Energy details plans to improve 
competitiveness  
• Employee representatives have been informed about the proposed steps aimed at improv ing  
the company’s long -term competitiveness  
• In addition to reducing non personnel costs , Siemens Energy plans to reduce current global  
workforce until 2025 by about 7,800 jobs in its Gas and Power segment  
• Non-recurring costs associated with the proposed job reductions will amount cumulatively to  
a mid to high triple digit  million  euro  in line with previous guidance  
• Guidance overall for fiscal year 2021 remain s unchanged  
 
The Executive Board of Siemens Energy has provided employee representatives details about its 
previously announced plans to reduce costs by a minimum of  €300 m illion  in its Gas and Power 
segment . This is  in addition to programs already under implementation . The measures are designed 
to improve the company’s competitiveness by enhancing the long -term cost structure. Siemens 
Energy  plans to optimize the company’s portfolio on the basis of  profitability and future viability, to 
lower the non -conformance costs of major projects, and to reduce procurement costs. The company  
reconfirms  plans to achieve an Adjusted EBITA margin before special items of 6.5 percent to 8.5 
percent by 2023.  
 
The m easures presented today range from cost reductions  related to external service providers, 
purchasing and logistics, t o streamlin ing the  IT landscape. Siemens Energy has already initiated its 
portfolio -reshaping process by modifying its range of aero -deriva tive gas turbines. In addition, the 
company will no longer bid on contracts for new coal -fired power plants.   
 
Siemens Energy  has made the reduction of its material expenses a high priority  and the majority of 
reduction  measures are related to those costs . However, optimized processes, leaner structures, the 
reduction of overcapacities and portfolio adjustments will result in the reduction  of approximately 
7,800 jobs around the world  in the Gas and Power segment  – around three -quarters of which will 
be made in management, administration  and sales.  
 
 
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
The proposed measures impact approximately : 
• 3,000 in Germany  
• 1,700 in the United States  
• 3,100 at other locations around the world  
 
The reductions are planned by the end of the 2025 financial year, with a large part to be  
implemented by the end of the 2023 financial year. In negotiations with the employee 
representatives  in geographies under co -determination , the company aims at reachi ng an 
agreement on the proposed mea sures as soon as possible.  
 
“The energy market is significantly changing which offers us opportunities but at the same time 
presents us with great challenges ,” said Christian Bruch, Chief Executive Officer of Siemens Energy 
AG. “With this program we want to regain our competitiveness and financial  strength to shape the 
energy world of tomorrow. We are fully aware that this is a challenging program  for our employees . 
Hence,  we will undertake these measures in th e most socially responsible way possible. ” 
 
The company reiterates that the estimated restructuring costs associated will amount cumulatively 
to a mid to high triple digit  euro million amount for the fiscal years 2020 to 2023.  This figure  falls 
within the range of the company’s previously announced expectations . The company’s guidance for 
the current 2021 fiscal year remains unchanged.   
 
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Tim Proll -Gerwe  
Phone: +49 (0)152 2283 5652  
E-mail: tim.proll -gerwe@siemens -energy.com  
 
Felix Sparkuhle  
Phone: +49 (0)172 6347  850 
E-mail: felix.sparkuhle@siemens -energy.com   
 
 
This press releas e is available at : www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting  the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and ren ewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemen s 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people  worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 