siemens-energy.comSustainability Report 2020
Getting  
  Started
Siemens Energy aligns with the United 
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). In order to ensure maximum effec-
tiveness, we have prioritized five SDGs to 
which we have the highest and most direct 
impact. Read more on  page 13.We energize society
Medium impact
High impact
Low impact2
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020
The company
6 Foreword
8 Siemens Energy at a glance
10 Strategic focus
Decarbonizing our business
18 Customers and innovation
24 Decarbonization
Responsible operations
30 Conservation of resources
34 Product stewardship
37 Sustainable supply chain management
41 Anti-corruption and integrity
47 Human rights
51 Working at Siemens Energy
58 Occupational health and safety
62 Societal engagement
Annex
68 The company
68 Reporting method
69 Environmental Portfolio reporting principles
73  Task Force on Climate-Related Financial  
Disclosures (TCFD) 
75 UN Global Compact – communication on progress
78 Independent auditor’s limited assurance report1
2
3
4Content
Reference logic
 Reference within the report
  Link to an external reference

6 Foreword
8 Siemens Energy at a glance
10 Strategic focusThe company
Foreword
energy and electricity are critical for societies 
throughout the world. However, climate change, 
growing populations and digitalization are changing 
the boundary conditions for us, for our customers and 
for the entire energy industry. We are operating in a 
rapidly changing market that is pushing for new 
solutions, new technologies, and new business models. 
As the world population grows, access to electricity 
spreads and the industry is further electrified, we 
expect the global demand for electricity to increase by 
around 50 percent by 2040. How can the energy 
industry meet this growing demand while protecting 
the climate? The aspiration of our new company, 
Siemens Energy AG, is to energize society in a sustain-
able and efficient way, based on the right products, 
solutions and services.
This document, the first independent Sustainability 
Report prepared by Siemens Energy AG, shows that 
sustainability is an integral part of our “Energy of 
Tomorrow” transformation program that will enable 
us to make our vision reality: We want to create the 
most valued energy technology company in the world 
and be the sustainability leader in our industry. Sustain -
ability is firmly anchored in all our actions and as 
President and CEO of Siemens Energy, I have taken 
over responsibility as Chief Sustainability Officer to 
underscore this commitment. The 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) set out in the United Nations’ 
2030 Agenda guide us in our plans and actions. While 
Siemens Energy contributes to achieving all 17 SDGs to ensure the highest impact, we are focusing on 
SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy”, SDG 13 “Climate 
Action”, SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth”, 
SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure” and 
SDG 5 “Gender Equality”. We are  committed to meeting 
environmental, social and  governance (ESG) standards 
and expectations. Siemens Energy actively endorses 
the Paris Agreement on climate change and supports 
ambitious political programs such as the European 
Green Deal and the EU hydrogen strategy. 
Across our various businesses and along the entire 
energy value chain, we help our customers to adopt 
more sustainable energy technologies and solutions. 
Some examples: We build hybrid power plants that 
combine generation technologies with battery storage; 
we deliver gas turbines that can already operate on up 
to 60 percent hydrogen; we provide transmission 
equipment that avoids the use of SF6, a very harmful 
greenhouse gas; we offer hydrogen electrolyzers, 
which are critical for developing a sustainable green 
hydrogen economy; and Siemens Gamesa Renewable 
Energy produces wind turbines that generate electricity 
from both onshore and offshore wind energy. 
6
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
We believe that innovative technologies are the key to 
combating climate change – now and in the future. 
And these innovations require thinking and working 
in ecosystems with customers and partners. At the 
same time, we believe that interim solutions based on 
highly efficient conventional solutions can and should 
contribute to more sustainable energy systems than 
we have today. The balance of availability, sustain -
ability and affordability of electrical energy will differ 
in every region of the world, and diverse approaches 
will be required to steer societies toward a sustainable 
energy world. 
We invest around one billion euros per year in research 
and development and are increasing our focus on sus-
tainable technologies and services. All these efforts 
naturally begin right at home, as we make our own 
operations more sustainable. We plan to switch our 
own power consumption to 100 percent green elec-
tricity by 2023, and are aiming at making our company 
operations climate-neutral by 2030. 
At Siemens Energy we are also committed to the Ten 
Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and 
will provide annual information on our progress as part 
of our sustainability reporting. 
In all these activities, the people who work for 
Siemens Energy are especially important. Ensuring 
their health and safety is our top priority. Likewise, 
we pay fair wages and support fair working conditions, 
equal opportunities for advancement, and attractive 
career prospects. Above all, we stand for inclusion and 
diversity in all its facets, and firmly believe that this 
not only benefits our own company, but society as a 
whole.  
One other topic is particularly close to our hearts: 
Making a positive difference in the world would be 
impossible without high standards of integrity and 
compliance. We therefore pursue a zero-tolerance 
approach regarding violations of applicable laws and internal regulations. Only clean business is Siemens  
Energy business. Beyond the boundaries of our 
 company, we actively drive the implementation of 
Collective Action and aim to develop projects with 
partners in industry, the public sector, non-govern -
mental organizations, international organizations and 
civil society. While this includes the joint fight against 
corruption, it also goes far beyond that: Our ultimate 
goal is to create fair market conditions and establish a 
“level playing field” for all market participants, and 
promote integrity in business transactions. 
2020 has been a year full of many daunting chal -
lenges – above all the COVID-19 pandemic. Under 
these extremely difficult conditions, we continued to 
support our customers and further strengthen our 
innovative power by tapping into the potential of dig-
italization. We were able to “keep the lights on” in close 
collaboration with our customers and partners. 
Siemens Energy is a new company, yet one drawing 
on a long and rich tradition dating back to 1866, 
when Werner von Siemens discovered the dynamo  -
electric principle and laid the foundation for today’s 
ubiquitous electrification. Our aim is to continue this 
tradition in order to make our world a better and 
more sustainable place.
Please enjoy reading the Sustainability Report!
With kind regards,
Christian Bruch 
President and CEO  
Siemens Energy AG 
 
Chief Sustainability Officer 
Siemens Energy AG7
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
Siemens Energy  
at a glance 
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy 
technology companies. We energize society by sup -
porting our customers in transitioning to a more sus -
tainable world, based on our innovative technologies 
and our ability to turn ideas into reality. 
With our portfolio of products, solutions and services, 
we cover almost the entire energy value chain – from 
power generation and transmission to storage. Our 
portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy 
technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid 
power plants operated with hydrogen, and power 
generators and transformers as part of our high voltage 
products portfolio. A majority stake in the listed 
company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) 
makes Siemens Energy a global market leader in 
 renewable energies with a market leading position in 
wind power. 
Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people in 
more than 90 countries worldwide.
Our company structure
We have organized the company in two reporting 
segments, Gas and Power and SGRE:
• Our reporting segment Gas and Power includes the 
Generation, Transmission and Industrial Applications 
Divisions with the respective service business based 
on our customer groups and product lines. The 
Business Segment New Energy Business will focus on building up our business with Power to-X technol-
ogies, electrolyzer systems and solutions for the 
production of green hydrogen on the basis of 
renewable energy and water. 
• Our reporting segment SGRE, in which Siemens Energy 
holds a 67% majority stake, is a leading provider of 
wind power solutions and complements the portfolio 
through which we support our customers world -
wide in transitioning to a more sustainable energy 
system.Orders 
(in billions of €)
∼ 34Revenue 
(in billions of €)
∼ 27.46
Order backlog
(in billions of €)
∼ 79FY 20208
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
Our innovative products support 
customers in transitioning to a more 
sustainable world
Gas and Power
• Generation: We provide products, solutions and 
services for conventional power generation with 
high efficiencies. We reduce carbon emissions from 
existing assets and develop technologies that that 
will be critical in the future for the decarbonization 
of power generation applications.
  Portfolio: Large gas and steam turbines, industrial 
gas and steam turbines, generators, turn-key power 
plants, control systems, operation and maintenance 
of power plants, modernizations and upgrades, 
digital services
• Industrial Applications: We support our customers 
in oil and gas, as well as other industries, by provid-
ing safe, reliable and highly efficient rotating, 
electrical, automation and digital products, solutions 
and services.
Portfolio: Industrial and aero-derivative gas tur -
bines, industrial steam turbines, turbo compressors 
and reciprocating compressors and generators; 
integrated electrification, automation and digital 
solutions for onshore and offshore oil and gas, 
subsea, marine and fiber industries; and compre -
hensive service solutions incl. spare parts, repairs, 
field services, digital services, modernizations and 
upgrades and long-term programs• Transmission: We partner with our customers to 
build and operate efficient grid infrastructures. We 
offer reliable products, solutions, and services 
improved with digital functions to meet the growing 
demand for sustainable electrification.
  Portfolio: Transmission systems, air- and gas-in -
sulated switchgear, power and distribution trans -
formers, solutions for substations, HVDC- and 
MVDC-solutions, modernization and upgrades
• New Energy Business: We shape the green hydro-
gen economy. We develop technologies to couple 
our economic sectors with renewable sources of 
power.  
  Portfolio: Power-to-X-solutions, electrolyzer systems, 
solutions for producing green hydrogen from re -
newable energies and water
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy
We provide wind energy technologies and services for 
a sustainable future. We are one of the world’s leading 
suppliers of on- and offshore solutions.
Portfolio: On- and offshore wind turbines, hybrid 
solutions to produce energy from renewables, including 
power storage systemsOur company structure
TransmissionIndustrial  
ApplicationsGeneration New EnergyGas and Power Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy
Central
DistributedOnshore
OffshoreSiemens Energy AG9
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
Strategic focus
We energize society by supporting our customers in 
transitioning to a more sustainable world, based on 
our innovative technologies and our ability to turn 
ideas into reality.
• Siemens Energy aims to be the partner of 
choice for our customers to shape the energy 
transition 
• We focus on five Sustainable Development 
Goals to ensure the highest impact on societal 
development 
• We have developed a new Sustainability Program 
which will be implemented across the organi-
zation as part of our company program called 
the Energy of Tomorrow 
The world is facing huge challenges. Climate change, 
globalization, digitalization and the global COVID-19 
pandemic have placed governments, companies and 
societies in challenging and complex circumstances. 
At the same time, energy systems around the world 
are changing, and the demand for energy is growing: 
It is expected that by 2040, the global electricity 
demand will rise by around 50% 1, whilst 770 million 
people still do not have access to energy 2. The ques-
tion is: How can we meet the growing demand for elec-
tricity while protecting our climate? This also guides 
our thinking on the future strategic direction of 
Siemens Energy and we have laid out concrete steps 
in order to address these challenges.By doing so, we are proudly continuing a tradition that 
goes back more than 150 years: in 1866, Werner von 
Siemens converted mechanical energy into electrical 
energy, making it available for the first time for many 
everyday applications. We still need the courage, drive 
and determination of Werner von Siemens today in 
order to make sustainable, reliable and affordable 
 energy possible. In this sense, we at Siemens Energy 
are building on the strengths of Siemens – and are 
developing them further.
Thus, our purpose is “We energize society”, and our 
employees stand for and work hard at this every day.
1  Source: https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2019  
(Stated Policies Scenario)
2  Source: https://www.iea.org/reports/sdg7-data-and-projections/
access-to-electricity 8VN1 Blue GIS® switchgear with vacuum interrupting technology  
and clean air insulation
10
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
Partner of choice for the energy 
transition 
Through our company program “Energy of Tomorrow”, 
we intend to shape our existing business, by developing 
our portfolio with a focus on sustainability, by allocating 
the Research and Development (R&D) budget to 
achieve breakthrough innovations and by creating an 
ecosystem of partners. Aiming to be a data-driven 
company, we want to create value through digitali-
zation, connectivity and automation.
The first phase of the program will be to accelerate the 
impact on the energy transformation by
• Focusing and delivering on the fundamentals – by 
developing our people, achieving zero harm, eliminat -
ing non-conformance cost in product design and 
project execution, and optimizing our portfolio with 
an eye toward the energy system transformation
• Co-creating innovations with customers and partners 
to speed up innovation and generate the best solutions
• Shifting R&D expenditures toward sustainable 
products and services  
The second phase of the program will be to start leading 
the energy transformation and to become the most 
valued energy technology company.
• We want to be the sustainability leader in the industry 
and the partner of choice for all by delivering on our 
promises to our shareholders and stakeholders.
• We aim to electrify countries and communities in a 
sustainable, affordable and reliable manner by 
bringing in our unique capabilities and technologies. 
• We aim to become a company that creates value for 
our different stakeholders through data-driven 
insights, automation and digitalization.  
Transformation of our technology 
portfolio
As Siemens Energy, we aim to lead the market across 
each of our businesses, with a clear focus on research 
and development, on which roughly €1 billion has 
been spent each year over the past two years. This 
showcases our plan to transition our products and our 
customers toward a sustainable energy economy. 
Some selected examples of this portfolio transformation 
are provided below:
• Generation: We aim to provide generation technol -
ogies that are sustainable, reliable and affordable 
and that enable the “Coal-to-Gas” shift with state-
of-the-art gas-fired power plants. Together with high-efficiency, ultra-low emissions, combined cycle 
power plants, they compensate for fluctuating 
renewable energy from wind and sun and serve as 
a bridging technology to stabilize the power supply. 
By 2030 we want to have 100% hydrogen combus-
tion capability in our gas turbines. Our current 
generation of gas turbines are already able to burn 
mixed fuels containing 30 – 60% hydrogen.
• Transmission: The transmission and distribution 
network must be expanded and its stability must 
also be ensured, due in part to increased decentral-
ization. We are increasing the efficiency of our trans -
mission technologies to transport renewable energy 
to consumers faster, over longer distances, more 
reliably and with lower losses, and are investing in 
grid stabilization, grid intelligence, grid flexibility 
and digital applications. In addition, we are expand -
ing our portfolio of SF6-free transmission solutions.
• Industrial Applications: We facilitate the efficient 
and environmentally friendly use of natural 
resources. With our state-of-the-art portfolio, we 
offer our customers a broad range of products, 
services and solutions that support the electrification 
and decarbonization of oil and gas as well as process 
industries, thereby reducing CO₂ emissions. 
• Renewables: Through our majority stake in Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE), we are one of 
the leading providers of wind power solutions. With 
our “New Energy Business” unit, we develop the 
technologies and applications urgently needed for 
decarbonization on an industrial scale. By focusing 
on the expansion of wind, solar and storage systems 
as well as hydrogen and power-to-x solutions, we 
aim to further strengthen our positioning in the 
renewables market.
• Digitalization: Siemens Energy aims to become a 
data-driven company that creates value through 
digitalization, automation and connectivity. By com -
bining domain and digital expertise, we will increase 
the value of our offerings to the benefit of our cus-
tomers. In addition, we automate our internal 
processes and build the digital infrastructure neces-
sary to react to rapid changes in the digital world.
• Coal exit: With regard to our coal-fired business, we 
have decided that Siemens Energy will withdraw the 
support for the development of new purely coal-
fired power plants. We cease to offer components 
like steam turbines, generators, and control tech -
nology for such projects. For a transition period, we 
will continue to offer equipment for highly efficient 
applications such as combined heat and power 
generation (CHP), biomass co-firing and waste heat 
recovery, after specific assessment and consultation 11
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
of the Executive Board. In line with this decision, 
Siemens Energy will find acceptable solutions with 
its partners related to coal power plant technology 
agreements. This applies to product licenses, joint 
ventures and minority shareholdings. Siemens  
Energy remains a reliable partner and we will honor 
the existing commitments to customers in connec-
tion with coal-fired power plant projects. What is 
more, with our service and solutions business, we 
will continue to help them achieve substantial 
reductions in their plants’ CO2 emissions going 
forward. 
Our commitment to sustainability
The adoption of the Agenda 2030 and its 17 Sustain-
able Development Goals (SDGs) has set the ambition 
to improve the prosperity and quality of life of all 
people, while also keeping our planet’s limited resourc -
es in focus. The SDGs and their related targets are 
fostering a new understanding of how economic 
development can be reconciled with social and environ -
mental challenges, stimulating transformational 
change. It is now necessary for governments, business -
es, cities and civil societies to work together and 
contribute to realizing the SDGs.
As a global energy company, Siemens Energy has the 
potential and capabilities to shape the energy transi-
tion, by leveraging the extensive business opportunities 
that arise from private and public investments. This 
will allow us to drive forward the achievement of SDGs 
together with our customers and partners. We focus on five SDGs to ensure the effectiveness of 
our efforts and the highest impact:  
SDG 5 – Gender Equality
We focus on creating equal opportunities, inclusion 
and diversity in all its facets: We firmly believe that not 
just our company, but society as a whole benefits from 
diversity and inclusion.
SDG 7 – Affordable and Clean Energy
Along the energy value chain, our technologies support 
customers from various industries to provide reliable, 
affordable and sustainable energy and to permanent -
ly improve energy efficiency and thus reduce emis -
sions. In addition, we are working to make our own 
business activities climate neutral by 2030 at the latest.  
SDG 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth
The innovative power of our global operations not only 
stimulates economic development in many countries, 
but also allows us to create and preserve decent jobs 
with a future. Our responsibility for the protection of 
human rights extends throughout our entire value 
chain.
SDG 9 – Industry, Innovation,  
and Infrastructure
Siemens Energy supports its business partners and 
customers across almost the entire energy value chain, 
for example with products, services and solutions for 
decarbonizing energy systems worldwide, and pro -
motes sustainable energy supply in partnerships with 
innovative approaches.SGRE is an expert in operations and maintenance of wind turbines – both on- and offshore
12
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
SDG 13 – Climate Action
Siemens Energy is strongly committed to the Paris 
Agreement. We have set ourself the goal to become 
climate neutral in our own operations by 2030 at the 
latest. Our innovative technologies help customers to 
improve their energy efficiency in the long term, 
reducing CO₂ emissions in the process. 
For Siemens Energy, sustainability means acting in the 
interest of societal development through our products, 
solutions and processes – true to our company purpose 
“We energize society”. This also involves dealing 
responsibly with potentially adverse impacts of our 
business activities. Our objective is to be the sustain-
ability leader in the energy industry.
Implementing and managing a 
 company-wide Sustainability Program 
All sustainability activities are led by our Chief Sustain -
ability Officer (CSO), who is also the CEO of our com-
pany. He will make sustainability a regular topic on 
the agenda of Executive Board meetings and in wider 
leadership meetings. The Sustainability Director manages the Sustainability 
Department, which is responsible for driving sustain-
ability within Siemens Energy and for coordinating 
the company-wide sustainability activities, programs 
and measures. The department is part of the Strategy 
Function. 
Furthermore, we have set ourselves the goal of em-
bedding sustainability in our organization to ensure 
that all measures and initiatives are also implemented 
in our business activities. This will be supported by the 
Divisions and Countries, which nominate Sustainability 
Business Partners to implement the company program 
in their areas of responsibility. 
The importance of sustainability for Siemens Energy 
is also reflected by the fact that the long-term equity- 
based compensation, granted to the members of the 
Executive Board and selected senior executives in the 
Medium impact
High impact
Low impact13
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
form of Stock Awards, contains non-financial targets 
that reflect strategic ESG (Environmental, Social and 
Governance) priorities for Siemens Energy. At the 
beginning of a Stock Awards tranche, the Supervisory 
Board selects the key performance indicators (KPIs) 
for the ESG component. These can be equally weighted, 
or the Supervisory Board can assign each a higher 
or lower weighting. The Supervisory Board sets targets 
for each KPI to be achieved by the end of the perfor -
mance period, as well as values representing 0% 
and 200% target attainment. For more information, 
please see our   Annual Report 2020 , 1.10 Compensation 
Report . 
Our Sustainability Program
Our Sustainability Program is fully integrated into our 
company strategy. It focusses on the most relevant topics that help us achieve our ambition to become a 
sustainability leader in the industry whilst contributing 
to the most relevant SDGs. 
To establish the Sustainability Program, we conducted 
a materiality analysis, which consisted of analyzing 
topics of relevance for business and society and en-
gaging in dialog with selected internal and external 
stakeholders. This enabled us to identify the key sus-
tainability issues for our company, which serve, among 
other things, as a basis for reporting. We will repeat 
this analysis for future sustainability reporting and 
refine the process, incorporating all relevant stake -
holder groups.
The resulting Sustainability Program is oriented along 
our company purpose “We energize society”.
List of material topics
Systemic transition Major social and environmental challenges require holistic systemic transformations. 
Siemens Energy is helping in this area in particular by designing sustainable energy systems. 
Business model resilience A robust, customized portfolio is fundamental to meet market demands in the long term. 
We aim to be a strong, reliable company that has the capacity to adapt to the requirements 
of state-of-the-art systems. 
Physical impacts of climate change Climate change is impacting all areas of business. This is why it is particularly important 
for Siemens Energy to adapt our business activities so as to be resilient in the face of 
constant change. 
Decarbonization With a comprehensive climate action program along the value chain we aim to reduce CO2e 
emissions. 
Emissions/Air Quality We aim to reduce emissions and thus negative impacts on air quality which may be caused by our 
business activities.
Access to energy Supporting our customers to provide access to sustainable, affordable and reliable energy 
for their customers is our goal. This allows us to contribute to raising the standard of living 
of societies.
Effects on human capital  
development Development of our workforce and creation of new jobs are pivotal for achieving long-term 
success, because only with highly qualified staff can we respond appropriately in these 
times of constant change.
Employee health & safety Our employees’ health and safety in the workplace has priority for us. We are striving to 
protect our workforce to the best of our ability and to reduce the number of accidents. 
Sustainability in the supply chain For Siemens Energy, corporate sustainability means more than just examining our own 
business activities. It also entails acting responsibly in our dealings with suppliers to ensure 
sustainability in the supply chain.
Compliance Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is our core principle. It increases credibility 
and avoids business risk for Siemens Energy.
Responsible decision making At Siemens Energy, responsible decision making means considering all relevant effects on 
society, the environment, and the economy in our decisions. This will add value for all 
Siemens Energy stakeholders.
ESG Risks Environmental, societal, and governance risks in all business activities can lead to negative 
societal impacts, as well as loss of reputation and trust and negative ratings. This is why it is 
essential for Siemens Energy to factor these risks into our decision making on projects and 
investments. 14
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
At the core of the program is the goal to decarbonize 
energy systems along the entire value chain. Different 
topics around responsible operations also contribute 
to Siemens Energy becoming a sustainability leader in 
the industry and to our societal impact. 
Our businesses, regional entities and central functions 
will help to implement this program. We want to be 
measured against our goals and performance and have 
selected strategic KPIs, on which we report in the 
 individual sections of this report.
Sustainability-related risks and opportunities
To provide a comprehensive view of our business 
 activities, risks and opportunities are analyzed in a 
structured way, combining elements of a bottom-up 
and a top-down approach: Sustainability-related risk 
and opportunities are identified by the respective 
managements of our organizational units. Our Enter -
prise Risk Management (ERM) system takes a net risk 
approach and aims to ensure that the Executive Board 
and the Supervisory Board are fully informed about 
significant risks on time. For the fiscal year 2020, the 
following sustainability-related risks have been reported 
to the ERM:
• Strategic risks:
– Disruptive decarbonization trends 
– Failure to meet ESG standards and expectations 
– Technology/portfolio gap against competitors  
– Political instability and conflicts • Operational risks: 
– Pandemic diseases 
– Environment, Health and Safety adverse events  
– Critical supply chain
– Key personnel
– Cyber security failures including product security
• Compliance Risks:
– Allegation of Compliance violations
– Impact of legal proceedings
For more information related to the risks, please refer 
to the section “Report on material risks and opportu-
nities” in the   Annual Report . Find out more on our 
climate-related risks in the Task Force for Climate- 
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) section on 
the  Annex. We are continually taking steps to reduce 
our sustainability-related risk exposure within the 
organization and across the supply chain by imple -
menting risk management systems adapted to specific 
 industries and responsibilities. On the other side, risk 
mitigation actions also represent opportunities for our 
business, for example innovations that support the 
energy transition and streamlining of internal processes.
Partnerships and collaborations
We firmly believe that the pursuit of sustainable de-
velopment can only be meaningful and successful in 
cooperation with a diverse set of actors. This approach 
is in line with SDG 17, which calls for a global part-
nership that brings together governments, civil society, 
the private sector, the United Nations system and Societal
impactResponsible
operations• Inclusion & diversity 
• Occupational health & safety
• Cultural transformation • Training & education
• Societal Engagement
• Anti-corruption & integrity• Human rights
• Conservation of resources
• Product stewardship
Decarbonizing
our businessDecarbonized products,
services and solutions for  
our customersClimate-neutral  
own operationsDecarbonized  
supply chainWe
energize
societySustainability Program
15
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
other actors. Close collaboration with different 
stakeholders is necessary to tackle the complex chal-
lenges we are facing.
For many years, Siemens AG has engaged in dialog 
with investors, customers, suppliers, employees, 
communities, policymakers, media, non-governmental 
organizations, business organizations and academia. 
These engagements create value on all sides of the 
equation through the exchange of knowledge and 
information and give rise to creative partnerships. 
They help us improve business conditions and  re-
duce risk externally and internally. At Siemens Energy, 
we will conduct an analysis of the existing partner -
ships and memberships and continue our dialog with 
relevant organizations or establish new ones. As a 
first step, we are a signatory to the United Nations 
Global Compact, pledging our commitment to its Ten 
Principles.  UN Global Compact
Effects of the COVID-19 pandemic  
on Siemens Energy
The world is challenged by the COVID-19 pandemic with 
an unprecedented force that has affected countries and 
businesses worldwide. Siemens reacted quickly and in 
January established a global Task Force, led by the En-
vironmental Protection, Health Management and Safe-
ty, Quality Governance and Security Function and in -
cluding representatives of other Functions, Countries, 
and Businesses, in order to ensure quick decisions and 
to suit local government requirements. Overall, we fo-
cused on the topics of employee health and safety, 
ensuring business operations, global coordination of 
regional aspects, financial stability, liquidity, securing 
our own infrastructure and supporting society. In this 
regard, it not only resolved short-term issues, but also 
laid the foundations for long-term, positive changes, for 
example adapting the working culture to the situation. In order to promote sustainable development globally,  
we exchange with various stakeholders
Thanking our employees  
who #KeepTheLightsOn
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the 
importance of reliable electricity supply for our world. From 
grocery stores to hospitals to homes, the world is depending 
on stable electricity to manage this crisis. While a lot of us 
are able to work from home, the reality is that many of our 
colleagues can’t. They are at customer sites, factory loca -
tions, warehouses and a host of other locations around the 
world, often away from their families and working in 
high-pressure environments to ensure the stable flow of 
electricity, water and other crucial infrastructure during this 
critical time. In April 2020, Siemens Energy launched the 
campaign #KeepTheLightsOn which showcases the stories 
of those employees, highlighting their sacrifice and excel -
lence while giving Siemens Energy leaders and employees a 
chance to say “thank you” to them.In fiscal year 2020, Gas and Power was affected by 674 
known COVID-19 cases, four of them fatalities. 
Overall, the pandemic did not only have negative con-
sequences. It also resulted in a reduction in global 
greenhouse gas emissions due to decreased energy 
demand during the lockdown. Nevertheless, this was 
a short-term effect and came with high economic 
costs. With regard to long-term improvements, we see 
the opportunity in shaping the transformation to sus-
tainable, intelligent energy systems for a changing, 
more adaptable grid. We believe that sustainability can 
only be achieved through design, not through disaster.
You will find details on the effects of COVID-19 and the 
measures taken in the relevant chapters of this report.
16
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 The company
18 Customers and innovation
24 DecarbonizationDecarbonizing  
our business
Customers and  
innovation
Our broad portfolio enables us to offer our customers 
tailored and innovative end-to-end solutions for optimizing 
their energy mix.
• Close collaboration with customers for managing 
the energy transformation with innovative, 
sustainable solutions 
• A new market-driven and customer-centric 
organization that focusses on technology and 
innovation fields 
• Continued engagement with universities and 
research institutions towards a more sustain-
able system 
Global energy markets are changing, presenting our 
customers with a multitude of challenges throughout 
the energy value chain – whether due to increasing 
digitalization and the need for decarbonization or 
because of the resulting demands on their flexibility. 
Many of our customers are confronted with long-term, 
disruptive changes in their business model. The trend 
away from regulated markets toward market-oriented 
structures is accompanied by growing public and reg-
ulatory pressure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, 
which will lead to widespread decarbonization of the 
energy landscape in the coming decades. 
This will bring about long-term changes in the weight 
applied to the different energy technologies, but will 
also create opportunities in new areas of business, 
such as increased electrification, renewables, hydrogen 
technologies and Power-to-X technologies. Our mis -
sion is to support our customers in transitioning to a 
more sustainable world, by providing a sustainable, 
affordable and reliable energy supply, based on our 
innovative technologies and our ability to turn ideas 
into reality. 
Our innovative 9000HL-class gas turbine – 
efficient, reliable, flexible
Gas turbines are well suited to manage the intermittency of 
increasing renewable loads by providing reliable and on-  
demand power. They will remain an element in power gener -
ation as electrification trends toward full decarbonization 
and the hydrogen economy starts to unfold. Our next gener -
ation 9000HL gas turbine combines design robustness with 
operational reliability and flexibility with technology innova-
tions. With its hydrogen capability package of up to 30%, the 
9000HL is a technology carrier to the next level of gas turbine 
performance.
18
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
This is enabled by our unique portfolio along the 
energy value chain – from products, solutions and 
services in the oil and gas sector to conventional and 
renewable energy generation, energy transmission 
and decentralized energy solutions – and our increased 
customer orientation. We thus contribute mainly to 
the following Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 7 
“Affordable and Clean Energy”, SDG 8 “Decent Work 
and Economic Growth”, SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation, 
and Infrastructure”, SDG 12 “Responsible Consumption 
and Production” and SDG 13 “Climate Action”.
New customer-oriented organization 
implemented 
We provide products, solutions and services world -
wide. Our customers are companies and organizations, 
some of which are internationally set up and some of 
which have a predominantly local presence. With our 
new market- and customer-oriented organization 
comprising of Regional Hubs, Divisions and Business 
Units we are adapting to customer needs. This mirrors 
the organization at SGRE, which also has its own ser -
vice organization. 
To meet our customers’ needs, Siemens Energy relies 
on a global sales organization managed by seven 
regional hubs for Gas and Power and regions for SGRE. 
These regional teams can build on a global network 
within and outside the company that includes consul-
tants, project developers, integrators, plant engineers 
and building contractors. 
We also have a key account management system in 
place for a selected group of our biggest customers. 
This allows us to provide our customers with a full 
range of products and solutions in a coordinated 
manner, thus ensuring smooth business operations. 
Our managers focus on developing and maintaining 
long-term relationships, especially within the frame -
work of our Executive Relationship Program.
Focusing on our customers and their business chal -
lenges will allow us to seize business opportunities, 
expand existing business and develop new business. 
The latter applies in particular to the decarbonization 
of value chains in the energy industry, but also in other 
sectors such as industry and transportation. Drawing 
on our broad technology and solutions expertise, we 
aim to make a significant contribution to the energy 
transition together with our customers. This also leads 
to an increased focus on co-creation and partnering 
for innovation. Competent customer service and maintaining close customer relation-
ships is essentialEnvironmentally friendly power supply  
for cruise ships
The world’s first SF6-free gas-insulated 145 kV high-voltage 
switchgear with clean air insulation and vacuum switching 
technology was successfully commissioned in May 2020 by 
the Norwegian energy company BKK Nett and Siemens  
Energy. It is part of the Koengen transformer station, which 
supplies power to the cruise port in Bergen. The Siemens  
Energy clean air technology compliments the transformer 
station with a solution that avoids CO2. Latest digital 
Sensgear® functionalities have been integrated to provide 
an asset status overview anywhere at any time. Shore power 
from hydropower can now be transmitted to cruise ships in 
an environmentally friendly manner. Ships in the harbor can 
be supplied with electricity and switch off their engines, 
which leads to a reduction in harmful emissions.
19
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
Innovation is the basis for our future success 
Our research and development (R&D) activities are 
aimed at developing innovative, sustainable solu -
tions both for our customers and for our business. 
Therefore, we will continue to invest around €1 billion 
per year to maintain our innovative edge. In addition 
to renewable energy in SGRE, we have identified 
fields of action called “Energy of Tomorrow” (EoT) 
Fields for Gas and Power to form the basis of 
Siemens Energy transformation and to becoming a 
sustainability leader in the industry. 
In addition, we have identified nine technology fields 
which will serve to help us improve the sustainability 
dimension of our product portfolio and to strengthen 
the core.
Across all businesses, digitalization facilitates new and 
promising approaches for new ways of working, 
 data-based business models and technology-based 
services such as remote operations, remote services, Green hydrogen – Pilot plant for H₂/CO₂- 
based methanol synthesis in Haßfurt
Since 2019, our New Energy Business, MAN Energy Solutions, 
Stadtwerk Haßfurt and Friedrich-Alexander-Universität 
Erlangen have been working together to develop an innova-
tive, more dynamically operable, efficient methanol synthe-
sis from carbon dioxide and e-hydrogen, which is generated 
by renewable energy-fed water electrolysis. Initial objectives 
include research into catalysts selection and the optimum 
reaction concept and parameters through the operation of a 
lab-scale pilot plant. The results will be transferred to a small, 
but nearly full power-to-methanol demonstration plant. That 
way, the basis for the design of future large-scale commer -
cial plants should be elaborated. etc. We work closely with our customers to make 
specific use of data-driven technologies to maximize 
performance throughout product and equipment life 
cycles. Also, digitalization helps us to create value for 
our customers, by improving our operations through 
optimized automation and our supply chains through 
additive manufacturing, and also to protect our cus -
tomers’ facilities through comprehensive cybersecurity.
In the demanding energy market for CO2-free power 
generation, continuous investment in R&D allows 
SGRE to bolster its competitiveness . SGRE’s R&D efforts 
focus on developing the next generation of technolo-
gy that will lead to improved and more cost-effective 
products, solutions and services, including becoming 
a leading company in mastering the balance between 
power generation and power demand for the renew -
able sector. To accomplish that goal, SGRE is develop-
ing reliable and efficient operating wind turbines, 
cost-effective energy storage solutions, and solutions 
for hybridization that are designed to help utility 
 customers optimize the use of renewable energy, 
thereby increasing profitability. Product improvements 
 (upgrades) and product innovation (new design) in 
onshore and offshore wind turbines are launched to 
suit our customers situation and reduce Levelized Cost 
of Energy or increase annual energy production. An -
other focus area is digitalization: Advances in this field 
enable more intelligent monitoring and analysis of 
turbine conditions as well as smart diagnostic services. 
SGRE also explores profitable opportunities in adjacent 
business fields, including other renewable sources, 
hybrid parks and storage in order to supply solutions 
for the system integration of renewables.
Collaboration supports sustainable 
development 
We leverage external partnering to enable future busi-
ness needs, by co-creating new technologies and 
 innovations and through joint market launches. One 
example is the Werner-von-Siemens Centre for Indus-
try and Science e.V. (WvSC), of which Siemens Energy 
is a key partner. WvSC is a dynamic research and 
 development collaboration involving more than 20 
partners from industry and science, small and medi -
um-sized enterprises, young companies and start-ups. 
It addresses important topics of the future such as 
the energy transformation, mobility and production 
technology. The WvSC allows co-located collaboration 
to speed up innovation in the focus areas ad -
dressed.  Further information
20
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Gamesa installed its offshore 
Direct Drive wind turbine number 1,000
By installing turbine number 51 at the 714 MW East Anglia 
ONE project in the UK in fiscal year 2020, SGRE reached the 
milestone of 1,000 installed units of its offshore direct drive 
wind turbine platform. Since the first unit was installed, the 
wind turbine fleet has produced an output of around 
34.6 terawatt hours.Additionally, we collaborate with scientists from top 
universities and research institutions on the advance-
ment of technologies that contribute to sustainable 
energy systems of the future, both in bilateral research 
collaborations and in publicly funded collaborative 
research projects.
In fiscal year 2020, we reported R&D expenses of €985 
million (FY 2019: ~€1 billion). The resulting research 
intensity, defined as the ratio of research and devel -
opment expenses to revenue, was 3.6% (FY 2019: 
3.5%). Additions to capitalized development costs 
amounted to €191 million (FY 2019: €163 million) in 
fiscal year 2020. Around 16,600 (FY 2019: 15,900) 
patents were held by Siemens Energy as of September 
30, 2020. On average, we had 5,200 (FY 2019: 5,100) 
R&D employees in fiscal year 2020.
We will continue to work together intensively on inno-
vative solutions for the future with a focus on sustain-
ability and service.1 Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality, Mixed RealityEnergy of Tomorrow (EoT) Fields of Action
Transform the future
Strengthen the coreManufacturing &
RepairAdditive 
ManufacturingMaterials
Plant Automation Power Electronics Engineering Methods
Cyber Security Data Analytics & AIDigital Twin/
AR-VR-MR1Power-to-X Energy Storage
Condition-based 
Service InterventionsResilient Grids &
ReliabilityDecarbonized Heat &
Industrial Processes21
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
Hydrogen – The most promising 
solution for decarbonization
Excerpt from an interview with Uniper CEO Andreas 
Schierenbeck on the collaboration with Siemens  
Energy
Uniper is the third largest listed energy supplier in 
Germany and a European leader in energy generation, 
trading, and storage. The company wants to take the 
step from coal to hydrogen economy in order to be-
come carbon-neutral until 2035.
Mr. Schierenbeck, gas plays a central role in your 
decarbonization strategy. Why is that?
Natural gas, imported via pipelines or LNG terminals, 
will continue to play a role in the next 20 or 30 years. 
But if you want to decarbonize even further, you have 
to use hydrogen. Imagine you’re producing green hy -
drogen through electrolysis without emitting CO2, 
then in the future it can be burned in gas power plants 
in a climate-neutral way to produce electricity and heat.“You can’t conduct a sustainable business against the climate and against the will of society.”  
says Uniper CEO Andreas Schierenbeck.
In the transformation to the hydrogen economy, 
you are relying heavily on collaboration, for 
 instance, with Siemens Energy. Why?
A large number of our gas turbines are from 
Siemens Energy. And as we are considering to gradu-
ally convert these gas turbines and power plants to 
hydrogen operation, it’s best to work with the manu-
facturer. Siemens Energy produces gas turbines that 
can already process a certain amount of hydrogen 
today, they manufacture hydrogen generation plants, 
and are also deep into the whole issue of renewables. 
Creative ideas, such as adding an electrolysis plant to 
every wind farm to produce hydrogen and thus ab -
sorb the generation peaks – those would be the first 
steps toward an industrial concept. Let’s put it this way: 
We have common business ideas and interests.
22
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy is the  
partner of choice for the  
decarbonization journey
We are committed to accompanying our customers 
on their way to a more sustainable energy future. 
We are driving decarbonization along the entire 
value chain: from the supply chain to our own 
operations, and especially in our portfolio. In doing 
so, we aim to be the partner of choice for our 
customers and to support them in their transition 
to a sustainable energy world.How does Siemens Energy support the EU’s 2050 
climate neutrality goal through its business strategy?
We walk the talk: Siemens Energy has committed to 
becoming climate neutral by 2030. And, moreover, we 
support our customers on their individual journeys 
toward decarbonization. With our products, solutions 
and services, we can push the transition to a more 
sustainable energy world. By covering almost the 
 entire value chain with our innovative technologies, 
we are able to turn ideas into reality.
What are your top priority solutions when it comes 
to decarbonization?
It is critical that we drive future technologies and, at 
the same time, have the courage to choose interim 
solutions. The shift from coal to natural gas could be 
one such interim solution on the way to a climate-  
neutral economy. Combining conventional and renew -
able energy systems is key to meeting the world’s need 
for sustainable, reliable and affordable energy. Green 
hydrogen will also play a major role in our future 
 energy mix. We now need to scale up volumes of green 
hydrogen and bring down the costs. The policy task is 
to define and implement the right boundary conditions.
How do you envision Siemens Energy’s future  
positioning with regard to decarbonization?
I am convinced that Siemens Energy is on the right 
track, and we have every reason to be confident. 
Siemens Energy should be the company that everyone 
immediately thinks of when it comes to decarboniza-
tion. We energize society – that’s our purpose. Together 
with our customers and partners, we can make a real 
difference in shaping the energy world of tomorrow.Christian Bruch
CEO and CSO  
of Siemens Energy 
Our goals
Our statusClimate neutral in  
own operations until 
2030
292,000 t
CO2 emissions  
(Scope 1 and 2)
78% 
green electricity100%
green electricity  
consumption  
by 2023Three questions to…
23
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
Decarbonization
We contribute to climate protection primarily through our 
portfolio, which enables our customers to reduce their 
emissions.
• Reduction of emissions along the entire energy 
value chain
• Our portfolio as a crucial element in our 
 customers’ energy transition
• The goal for our own operations: to be climate 
neutral by 2030  
Companies all over the world are facing strong social 
and political discussions in the field of climate protection. 
Many initiatives across Europe and around the world 
have prompted widespread media attention, putting 
pressure on leaders to keep warming below 1.5°C. 
67 countries have already committed to net-zero emis -
sions and the pressure that governments are putting 
on companies to reduce carbon emissions is growing. 
In 2019, the European Union agreed on the Green 
Deal, aiming for a just but rapid shift away from high- 
polluting industries and technologies and striving to 
 become a climate neutral economy by 2050. Many 
investors are increasingly funneling funds into green 
investments.
• Japan committed to become a decarbonized society, 
the Prime Minister announced the commitment to 
be full carbon neutral by 2050.
• China aims to peak Carbon Dioxide emissions by 
2030 or earlier and to achieve carbon neutrality 
before 2060.
• The European Union proposed an increase of the EU 
2030 climate target to 55% emissions cuts and 
committed to becoming Carbon Neutral by 2050.
• The Nigerian state of Lagos (most populous region 
on the African continent) committed to be Carbon 
Neutral by 2050.
• Canada’s prime minister committed to establish a 
net zero emissions goal by 2050, with legally binding 
five-yearly carbon budgets. 
• Chile aims for a phase-out of coal by 2040 and for 
carbon neutrality by 2050.
Interim solutions across the value chain 
are needed to transform the energy sector
Decarbonization is one of our most important market 
drivers. As a technology provider, partner and advisor, 
we offer our customers appropriate products and 
services and accompany them on their energy trans-
formation journey. At the same time, we are working 
consistently on climate neutrality in our own opera -
tions and intend to be climate neutral by 2030. SGRE 
achieved carbon neutrality back in 2019, including 
offsetting of unavoidable emissions. It expanded its 
ambitions by incorporating the net-zero emissions 
target by 2050. In order to advance carbon neutrality 
across the entire value chain, we are also working on 
concepts to reduce CO2 emissions in the supply chain. 
Our decarbonization activities along the entire value 
chain enable us to contribute to the SDGs, in particular 
SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy” and SDG 13 
 “Climate Action.” 24
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
Portfolio 
Our biggest lever to reduce GHG emissions are our 
products, solutions and services. Activities and cus -
tomer offerings that support decarbonization are 
clustered in three areas: Efficiency increase, Fuel shift/
Hybridization and Deep decarbonization.
1.  Efficiency increase: Products, solutions, tech -
nologies and services that improve the efficiency 
of conventional products and reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions
2.  Fuel shift/Hybridization: Products, solutions, tech -
nologies and services that support the transition 
from fossil-based to alternative fuels or that combine 
conventional and renewable sources of generation 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
3.  Full decarbonization: Products, solutions, technol -
ogies and services for energy generation in different 
industries and sectors, which substantially reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions to zero or negative 
emissions. The majority stake in SGRE is an important 
step toward a carbon neutral portfolio. SGRE offers 
one of the industry’s broadest wind power product 
portfolios, with both offshore and onshore tech-
nology as well as industry-leading service solutions. 
The installed products and technology have a total 
capacity base of more than 100 GW.This is how Siemens Energy wants to lead the way to 
a sustained decarbonized world. This is how we 
support governments, utilities and industries in 
transitioning to a transformed energy system.
Environmental Portfolio offers solutions 
for energy efficiency and climate 
protection
In addition to our action areas, long before the public 
debate around decarbonization went mainstream, 
Siemens AG established the Environmental Portfolio 
(EP) in 2007. It includes portfolio elements that make 
a contribution to energy efficiency and CO2 reduction. 
Products, systems, solutions and services (known as 
“Environmental Portfolio elements”) must meet one of 
the following criteria to qualify for inclusion:
• an increase in energy efficiency of 20% or more; or
• a reduction in emissions of at least 100,000 metric 
tons of CO2 or other greenhouse gases per reporting 
period in the use phase at our customers versus a 
reference solution (baseline); or
• technologies for use of renewables.
These Environmental Portfolio elements reduce the 
emission of CO₂ at our customers. The reduction is 
measured by carrying out comparisons with baselines 
and includes the option of a before/after comparison, 
Our decarbonization radar
Eﬃciency increaseDeep decarbonizationFuel shift/Hybridization 
Brennstoﬀaustausch/Hybridisierung 
Get more power 
out of your fuel!Use low-carbon 
fuels!
Use renewable 
energies and establish 
storage solutions!25
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
a direct comparison with a reference technology and 
a comparison with the installed base.
The Environmental Portfolio helps customers not only 
to cut their CO₂ emissions and reduce their energy 
costs, but also to increase their financial benefits 
thanks to higher productivity and asset performance. 
Please refer to the  Annex  for a detailed description 
of the qualification process for inclusion in the Envi -
ronmental Portfolio as well as for determining reduc-
tions in greenhouse gas emissions and the revenue 
generated.
Results of the Environmental PortfolioFiscal year
2020 2019
Revenue generated from the Siemens Energy 
Environmental Portfolio (in € billion) 19.3 20.1
Reduction in annual greenhouse gas emis-
sions at our customers due to new elements 
of the Siemens Energy Environmental 
Portfolio installed in the reporting period 
(in millions of metric tons) 35 40
Cumulative reduction in annual greenhouse 
gas emissions at our customers due to 
elements of the Siemens Energy Environmen-
tal Portfolio in the reporting period  
(in millions of metric tons) 522 493
The Environmental Portfolio elements that contribute 
the most to the total reduction of CO₂ emissions at our 
customers are combined-cycle power plants with 
particularly high efficiency coefficients, electricity 
generation from wind power, and power plant modern -
ization and upgrade activities.
Decarbonization of our operating 
processes
We have launched our Climate Neutral Program and 
aim to be climate neutral by 2030. In the program, we 
push for the reduction of emissions by various mea -
sures, including division targets. The strongest levers 
to achieve climate neutrality by 2030 are:
1. Reducing energy consumption
  Energy efficiency projects at different locations, 
including installation of LED lighting (dimmers, 
motion sensors), installation of smart meters to 
increase transparency, building automation systems 
(e.g., heating, ventilation, air conditioning).Hydrogen-based steel making  
at Salzgitter AG
Siemens Energy built a 2.5 MW PEM (Proton Exchange 
 Membrane) electrolysis plant for Salzgitter Flachstahl GmbH, 
 paving the way for a hydrogen-based steelmaking leading to 
reduction in CO2 emissions. The plant is due to start operation 
in the 4th quarter of 2020 and will cover the company’s 
entire current demand for hydrogen. The necessary electrical 
power will be generated by seven wind turbines with a capacity 
of 30 MW. The innovative PEM technology is ideally suited to 
exploiting the volatile generation of wind and solar power.2. Using renewable electricity
  100% of Siemens Energy’s global electricity con -
sumption shall be met by power from renewable 
sources by 2023.
3. New mobility concepts
  We want to reduce our vehicle fleet’s emissions and 
the related fuel costs. The details of an appropriate 
car policy are currently being worked out.
SGRE achieved carbon neutrality in its own operations 
back in fiscal year 2019. It did so by reducing and/or 
offsetting unavoidable emissions through offset 
projects. However, SGRE is continuing its efforts by 
setting even more ambitious energy efficiency targets 
such as net-zero emissions by 2050. The target 
 includes the transition to renewable energy-based 
sources in even more countries. SGRE is also rolling out 
a new Mobility and Transportation Policy country by 
country, thereby ensuring that e-mobility is the 
 preferred option for internal transportation and pro -
moting the transition of service vehicles to electric 
drivers.
26
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
Energy consumption and greenhouse 
gas emissions
We monitor energy consumption at our office locations 
and manufacturing facilities. It is calculated by adding 
the primary and secondary consumption of fuels and 
electricity and enables us to track the success of our 
climate neutral program.
Siemens Energy’s total energy consumption during the 
reporting period was 5.8 million gigajoules. Compared 
with fiscal year 2019, this is a reduction of 16.6%. This 
is mainly related to COVID-19 impacts on our global 
operations but also related to the implementation of 
some energy efficiency projects.
Primary Energy
(1,000 gigajoules)Fiscal year
2020 2019
Natural gas/liquid petroleum gas 1,920 2,377
Fuel oil, coal, gasoline/diesel 263 352
Other 5 5
Total 2,188 2,734
Secondary Energy
(1,000 gigajoules)Fiscal year
2020 2019
Electricity 2,902 3,383
Thereof electricity from renewable sources 2,256 2,007
District Heating 713 843
Total 3,615 4,226
Over the reporting period, Siemens Energy collected 
the following data regarding the level of scope 1 and 
2 emissions related to its business activities.
Scope 1 (direct) emissions
Direct greenhouse gas emissions arise from sources in 
the company’s ownership or under its control.
Scope 2 (indirect) emissions
Indirect greenhouse gas emissions refer to the consump -
tion of purchased electrical energy and district heating.
In fiscal year 2020 we achieved to reduce our scope 1 
and 2 emissions by around one third or 148,000 metric 
tons. The main levers were the increase of renewable 
electricity share, some energy efficiency projects as 
well as COVID-19 related impacts on our global oper -
ations. Atmospheric Pollutant Emissions
Other atmospheric pollutant emissions also have 
 negative impacts on the environment. These include 
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and Ozone Depleting 
Substances (ODS). VOC contribute to the formation of 
ozone close to the earth’s surface. The types of sub-
stances and materials that are in use and contain 
 organic compounds include: solvents, paints and 
 adhesives. ODS are monitored to comply with the 
 Montreal Protocol, the international convention on the 
protection of the ozone layer, as well as with coun -
try-specific regulation. The volume of emissions from 
the use of volatile organic compounds during the 
 reporting period equates to 434 metric tons. The 
volume of emissions from the use of ozone depleting 
substances during the reporting period equates to 
0.013 metric tons.
In calculating nitrogen oxides, we have assumed typical 
combustion conditions in the relevant thermal pro -
cesses, resulting in a figure of 74 metric tons for envi-
ronmentally relevant locations in the year under 
review. The figure includes nitrogen oxides released 
during the incineration of fuels reported in the section 
on primary energy.1  We calculate our emissions resulting from electrical consumption based on carbon 
emission factors of our local sites according to the market-based approach.Scope 1 and 2 emissions FY 2020
1000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent
Scope 2 1 Scope 1
Thereof SF₆ 
emissions
Total221
7166
292266
73
175
440
FY 2019 FY 202027
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
Power-to-X-to-power hydrogen gas turbine 
demonstrator
A consortium made up of Engie Solutions, Siemens Energy, 
Centrax, Arttic, German Aerospace Center (DLR) and four 
European universities are implementing the Hyflex Power 
project funded by the European Commission. This industri -
al-scale power-to-X-to-power demonstrator with an advanced 
hydrogen turbine will be launched at Smurfit Kappa PRF’s site, 
France (manufacturing of recycled paper). The purpose of this 
project is to prove that hydrogen can be produced and stored 
from renewable electricity and then added with up to 
100 percent to the natural gas currently used with combined 
heat and power plants. For this, an existing Siemens Energy 
SGT-400 industrial gas turbine will be upgraded to convert 
stored hydrogen into electricity and thermal energy.Lighthouse project for responsible  
CO2 offsetting
SGRE has invested in the development of offset projects 
focusing on renewable energy in order to balance its carbon 
footprint. The wind power project Bii Nee Stipa in Oaxaca, 
Mexico, was registered as a recognized example of a Clean 
Development Mechanism (CDM) under the United Nations 
Framework Convention for Climate Change (UNFCCC). In 
fiscal year 2020, SGRE voluntarily cancelled Certified 
 Emission Reductions (CERs) on behalf of the Bii Nee Stipa 
project where energy could not be reduced or renewables 
could not be sourced.
SGRE plans to engage more with key suppliers to en-
courage them to reduce their Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions related to products and services they supply 
to SGRE. It has sharpened its focus on sustainable 
business practices in supplier selection and perfor -
mance management, for example urging logistics 
companies, in particular marine and terrestrial com -
panies, to move away from fossil fuels in their activities.
Effects of COVID-19 on climate change 
The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting lockdown 
measures have significantly reduced electricity demand, 
which has in turn affected the power mix, causing a 
shift toward renewables across all major regions due to 
the low operating costs and priority access to the grid, 
according to the International Energy Agency (IEA). 
The flip side, however, is the curbing of investment 
and the threat of a slowdown in the expansion of key 
clean energy technologies. According to the IEA, 
governments need to take the lead in pursuing struc-
tural reductions in emissions through smart, sustained 
and ambitious policies to accelerate the development 
and deployment of a full range of clean energy solu-
tions. Job creation and modern, resilient and clean 
energy systems are to be placed at the heart of gov -
ernments’ stimulus plans. (Source: IEA) 
In addition to our focus on Decarbonization, we have 
defined several focus topics under the area of “Respon -
sible Operations” within our Sustainability Program. In 
the following chapters, we will elaborate further on 
each of those focus topics.Supply Chain
As an important part of the value chain, we encourage 
our suppliers to take action to protect the climate. 
Carbon reduction is already part of our suppliers’ supply 
chain management and we therefore continue to 
encourage them to redouble their efforts.
In 2020, we initiated a Carbon Reduction@Suppliers 
pilot project, cooperating with an external service 
provider who had worked with Siemens AG to develop 
an economic model that identifies the CO2 footprint 
of all suppliers. Based on this model, Siemens Energy 
encouraged 35 global focus suppliers to share their 
implemented and planned CO2 reduction measures. 
80% of the suppliers we surveyed responded to our 
Carbon Web Assessment. This confirms their aware -
ness of and interest in the matter, as they outline CO2 
reduction measures already implemented and further 
plans for the upcoming years. After analyzing the data 
and methodology and evaluating the lessons learned, 
we plan to further develop our approach to reduce 
emissions in collaboration with our suppliers.
28
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Decarbonizing our business
30 Conservation of resources
34 Product stewardship
37 Sustainable supply chain management
41 Anti-corruption and integrity
47 Human rights
51 Working at Siemens Energy
58 Occupational health and safety
62 Societal engagementResponsible  
operations
Conservation of resources 
We are committed to promoting the sustainable use of 
resources, fostering a culture of respect for the environment 
and substantially reducing our environmental footprint.
• Focus on energy efficiency, emissions, water 
and waste
• Management systems certified to ISO 14001 
and ISO 50001 at our locations
• Commitment to biodiversity on site 
Protecting our environment, conserving scarce 
 resources and improving energy and resource efficien -
cy in our operations are key business strategies and 
practices for Siemens Energy. Our goal is to continu -
ously develop and implement energy reduction and 
efficiency measures across our offices, production and 
project sites. We also strive to reduce emissions that 
are generated as a result of our business activities. 
We work to meet the growing number of environmen-
tal protection requirements and standards around the 
world. With the help of our EHS management systems, 
which are founded on the requirements of the 
ISO 14001 standard, we aim to comply with applicable 
laws, regulations and stakeholder expectations. Bio-
diversity also plays an important part in the sustain -
ability of ecosystems. At Siemens Energy locations 
around the world, employees are committed to pre -
serving biodiversity and creating a safe environment 
for plants and animals.
Excellence in environmental protection has both a 
direct and an indirect impact on the achievement of 
the SDGs. Through our activities and management 
systems, we contribute directly and indirectly to SDG 6 
“Clean Water and Sanitation”, SDG 7 “Affordable and 
Clean Energy”, SDG 12 “Responsible Consumption and 
Production”, and SDG 13 “Climate Action”.For information on our emissions, please refer to the 
chapter  Decarbonization .
Serve the Environment program and 
environmental management standards
The focus at Siemens AG on the conservation of 
 resources is driven by its “Serve the Environment” (StE) 
program and was still relevant to Siemens Energy 
throughout fiscal year 2020. For the Gas and Power 
segment of Siemens Energy, the StE program provides 
a foundation on which to meet the growing number 
of environmental protection requirements of our 
 customers and strengthen our position as a sustain -
able company. The main objectives were focused on 
improving environmental performance in the areas of 
energy, air, water and waste, including:
• Increased energy efficiency by using energy manage -
ment systems at sites and adapting the purchasing 
strategy
• Controlling air-pollutant emissions by replacing 
Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) and reducing 
solvents
• Implementation of local water strategies and risk 
analysis
• Zero waste to landfill by consistently preventing 
landfill waste and reducing waste materials.
In both reporting segments, Gas and Power and SGRE, 
environmental management standards are applicable 
on both an international and a local basis and are 
founded on the ISO 14001 and 50001 standards. The 
objective of these standards is to improve environmen-
tal performance and increase energy efficiency. 
30
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
72 Gas and Power locations have environmental man-
agement systems in place and are certified to 
ISO 14001 (FY 2019: 72), and 24 have energy man-
agement systems in place and are certified to 
ISO 50001 in fiscal year 2020 (FY 2019: 26).
Other locations both in Gas and Power and SGRE are 
either working toward the implementation of the 
ISO 50001 standard or alternatively have demonstrated 
energy efficiency, management and improvement 
practices through independent assessment and verifi-
cation. 
Transparency of resource use
Waste
The environmental relevance of waste depends upon 
the type of waste and the methods used to dispose of 
it. Both our reporting segments Gas and Power and 
SGRE, distinguish between hazardous, non-hazardous 
and construction waste. Hazardous and non-hazard -
ous waste are each further divided into recyclable 
waste and waste for disposal. Waste from construction 
or demolition work is reported separately, as this type 
of waste material arises independently from production.
Waste
(1,000 metric tons)Fiscal year
2020  2019
Non-Hazardous waste 121 122
Hazardous waste 19 17
Construction waste 16 6
Total 146 145
1 Without SGRE.Waste recycling and disposal 1
(1,000 metric tons)Fiscal year
2020 2019
Recycled and recovered waste 110 114
Waste to Landfill 31 25
Total 140 139
1 Excluding construction waste.
Recycling and recovery rate
(in %)Fiscal year
2020 2019
Share of recycling and recovery  
in total waste 178 82
1 Excluding construction waste.
Water
Water consumption is predominantly related to man-
ufacturing centers and office facilities in both report-
ing segments Gas and Power and SGRE. Opportunities 
to reduce water usage and consumption are managed 
directly by each location. 
Siemens AG developed its water strategy with the aim 
of reducing the local negative impact of water use. The 
strategy takes into account factors such as water 
stress, water pollution and flooding. Water is and will 
remain an important topic for Siemens Energy. We 
will develop our water strategy, which likewise takes 
into account factors such as water stress, water pol-
lution and flooding.
At Siemens AG, environmentally relevant sites use the 
Global Water Tool of the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD) business associa -
tion and locations that are now part of Siemens Energy 
had been included. The adoption of the Global Water 
Tool as part of our water strategy is a valuable option.31
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
At Siemens Energy, the volume of water consumed 
over the reporting period equates to 3.23 million 
cubic meters.
Water demand
(Million cubic meters)Fiscal year
2020 2019
Water consumption 2.59 2.67
Ground and surface water for cooling 
water purposes (returned to receiving 
water body chemically unchanged, but 
warmed) 0.64 0.80
Total 3.23 3.46Wastewater from our facilities and manufacturing 
processes amounts to 3.11 million cubic meters.
Wastewater
(Million cubic meters)Fiscal year
 2020  2019
Wastewater from employee facilities 1.24 1.52
Wastewater from manufacturing 
processes 0.31 0.33
Other (Incl. losses) 0.55 0.53
Conditioned cooling water discharged 
as wastewater 0.36 0.20
Total wastewater without chemically 
unchanged cooling water 2.47 2.58
Cooling water (returned to receiving 
water body, chemically unchanged, but 
warmed) 0.64 0.80
Total 3.11 3.38
Siemens Energy takes measures like roof greening and insect-friendly 
meadows to improve biodiversity at its own sites.
Water consumption
2.59Water demand FY 2020
Million cubic meters
3.23
TotalGround and surface water  
for cooling water purposes 
(returned to receiving water 
body chemically unchanged, 
but warmed)
0.6432
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
What’s the Buzz? – “Bee”ing creative in  
Charlotte
In North America, as in many countries around the world, 
the population of bees is dropping. However, bees are an 
important part of the earth’s ecosystem.
Our colleagues in Charlotte, North Carolina, therefore 
started using the Siemens Energy Generator and Turbine 
Plant site to host beehives on the 172 hectare property. A 
professional beekeeper installed several boxes which house 
nine bee hives to encourage pollination in the local ecosystem 
and promote environmental stewardship.
The honey is harvested and packaged by the Mecklenburg 
County Bee Society and offered for purchase to Siemens  
Energy employees. In the future more hives will be hosted in 
order to continue the active engagement of Siemens Energy 
for ecosystems and biodiversity.Biodiversity
Siemens Energy uses natural resources (water, fuels 
and materials) at its offices, production and project 
sites. This interaction with the environment could 
 introduce negative impacts on local ecosystems,  habitats 
and species. 
Maintaining biodiversity is part of our environmental 
management systems and reflects upon how our work 
activities can be performed in a sustainable way, there -
by allowing coexistence with habitats and species, 
conservation of the environment and the protection 
of natural resources.
Environmental impact assessments are used as part of 
the environmental management system to establish 
potential impacts that are related to our business 
 activities. The assessment identifies potential impacts 
based on impact severity and probability, providing 
information for management action and opportunities 
for improvement.
In the reporting period, Siemens AG gathered infor -
mation from its locations, including locations that are 
now part of Siemens Energy, and reported measures 
that have contributed to improving biodiversity at its 
locations and sites in fiscal year 2020. In addition,  local 
biodiversity initiatives have been identified by our 
 employees and are supported by Siemens Energy. 
 Examples include nesting boxes for wild bees, insect- 
friendly meadows, supporting bird-nesting, several 
tree plantings at sites, roof greening measures and the 
creation of nature pools.
Environment-related incidents
During the fiscal year 2020, there were no significant 
environmental incidents related to Siemens Energy 
(FY 2019: three). 
Environmental incidents resulting from our business 
activities can cause damage to our natural environ -
ment and surroundings. As a company, we will inves-
tigate, assess and derive measures that will prevent 
such incidents from happening again.
33
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Product stewardship
We assess the environmental impact of our products 
throughout the value chain and derive improvement 
measures to reduce negative impacts.
• Use of Life Cycle Assessments to quantify 
environmental impacts
• Communication of environmental performance 
in environmental product declarations
• Cross-functional material compliance approach 
to ensure transparency 
Siemens Energy takes responsibility for the impact of 
its products on health, safety and the environment by 
identifying and reducing any potential adverse impacts 
throughout the product life cycle. Our approach to 
product stewardship will focus primarily on environ -
mental aspects and the optimum use of resources 
within product development and design, production, 
operation, service and end of life. Wherever possible, 
we will partner with suppliers, contractors, and cus-
tomers to meet this key business requirement. 
As a UN Global Compact participant, Siemens Energy 
is committed to promoting greater environmental 
responsibility and encourages the development and 
diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In 
this regard, our product stewardship activities are also 
linked to the achievement of SDGs, especially SDG 12 
“Sustainable Consumption and Production,” which 
aims to achieve economic growth and sustainable 
development by establishing sustainable consumption 
and production patterns.
We will adapt and further develop the Siemens AG 
approach for environmental risk management and 
identification of mitigation measures regarding for 
example, energy consumption and efficiency, air emis -
sions, noise, water conservation, waste management, hazardous materials management, and physical, 
chemical and radiological hazards. Our approach will 
be founded on the minimum standards set by the 
International Finance Corporation (IFC) EHS guidelines 
and ESG criteria.
Customers, developers and manufacturers are pro -
vided with user and service manuals that describe the 
safe use of products, functionality and product 
maintenance requirements.
Siemens AG’s Product Eco Excellence 
program as a basis for our future 
approach
Within Siemens AG, the “Product Eco Excellence” (PrEE) 
program provided the central framework for all product 
stewardship activities. The program delivered added 
value to our business, our customers and the envi -
ronment with the aim of producing products with less 
environmental impact. PrEE laid the foundations for 
good cooperation with suppliers and improved cus -
tomer satisfaction. 
Our reporting segment Gas and Power will derive 
its own approach founded on the principles of the 
Siemens AG PrEE program and the ISO 14001 man -
agement system standard, with individual approaches 
for the businesses. The approach will be supported by 
the Environment, Health and Safety, Quality and 
 Security Center of Excellence. Customer requirements 
and related resource requirements will be assessed in 
each business and coordinators for product-related 
topics will be appointed.
34
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
At SGRE, product stewardship is set up similarly. Envi-
ronmental aspects of products are central characteris-
tics in this process. Everyone involved in the product’s 
lifespan is expected to take responsibility for reducing 
any potential adverse impacts. This happens via 
environmental criteria in product design based on Life 
Cycle Assessments, environmental product declara -
tions, component upgrades and lifetime extension as 
well as recycling. SGRE engages with suppliers, con -
tractors and customers to support its efforts where 
possible.
Life Cycle Assessments and 
Environmental Product Declarations
To achieve optimal use of resources, both Gas and 
Power and SGRE adopt a sustainable management 
approach over the entire product life cycle by con -
ducting Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) and publishing 
Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs).
For Gas and Power, the LCA and EPD approach is man-
aged globally by the Environment, Health and Safety, 
Quality and Security Center of Excellence and is closely 
linked to organizational teams dealing with product- 
related environmental protection. We aim to ensure 
that we meet legal requirements to avoid the use of 
substances and materials that have harmful effects on 
humans and the environment. The results from LCAs are used to:
• Identify opportunities to improve environmental 
performance within the design and manufacturing 
processes.
• Communicate environmental performance to internal 
and external stakeholders.
Findings from LCAs help us improve processes like 
internal production and material selection. With a 
 focus on manufacturing, Additive Manufacturing (AM) 
is emerging as a key means of producing parts and 
components in a resource-efficient and in turn envi -
ronmentally friendly way. AM technology boasts a 
wealth of benefits, from significantly lowering the 
quantity of resources needed during the production 
process to time savings, greater flexibility in design 
and reduced greenhouse gas emissions.
Additionally, we evaluate scenarios based on customer- 
specific boundary conditions and derive optimal 
solutions with the lowest environmental impacts.
To increase transparency and to facilitate a dialogue 
with our customers and stakeholders, Siemens Energy 
uses EPDs that are based on the following ISO standards:
Fundamental reporting principles
Lifecycle 
assessment and 
product 
declarationComply with
environmental 
regulation
Reduction in the 
consumption of 
critical and raw 
materialsAdequate 
choice of 
materialsEnd of life 
management
Efficient 
use of 
substancesForward 
looking 
eco-product 
designMeet  
customer  
expectationsTake advantage 
of opportunities 
for recycling and 
reuse35
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
• ISO 14021 for Type II product declarations and labels 
which address environmentally relevant information 
for customers.
• ISO 14025 for Type III product declarations and 
labels which are built upon the results of LCAs.
We continuously review our LCAs and EPDs. The table 
below provides a summary of the number of LCAs (full 
scale and screening) and EPDs (Type II and Type III).
September 30
Number of LCAs and EPDs 2020 2019
LCAs (full scale) 182 81
LCAs (screening) 212 12
EPDS 77 75
1  Full scale LCAs adopt a comprehensive approach, covering the environmental impacts 
over the entire life cycle.
2  Screening LCAs cover environmentally relevant parts or phases of a product life cycle.
Material compliance
We engage with our suppliers and contractors through 
the supplier assessment and qualification process and 
as part of the design and manufacturing processes 
to implement legal requirements, such as REACH 
(Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction 
of Chemicals) and RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous 
Substances). 
The nature and quantity of substances and materials 
used in products are increasingly important, especially 
when they are reused and recycled. Siemens Energy 
uses a globally standardized materials and substances 
register that is founded on the Siemens AG “List of 
Declarable Substances” (LoDs). The list identifies any 
substances that need to be declared for each product. 
As part of the Siemens Energy supplier assessment and 
qualification process, suppliers are required to identify 
whether any of their products, components and/or 
compositions contain substances that are currently 
registered on the LoDs. Suppliers need to provide a 
detailed declaration should any such substances be 
used within their design and manufacturing activities.
For Gas and Power, a new cross-functional material 
compliance approach has been launched together 
with supply chain management which aims in order 
to increase transparency over the substances in our 
products during supplier qualification both for products 
and projects. The approach focuses on compliance 
with substance management and the development and adaptation of existing processes to improve the 
collection and collation of product declarations aiming 
to cover the entire value chain. Based on existing best 
practices, we are able to make the required declarations 
available to our customers and aim to further optimize 
this process across the entire organization.
Within its substance management process, SGRE also 
evaluates requests for the use of new chemical products 
against the SGRE defined List of Prohibited Products 
and List of Restricted Products.
Critical materials
The European Commission has published a list of crit-
ical raw materials that is subject to regular review and 
updating. The primary purpose of this list is to identi-
fy those raw materials that have a high supply risk and 
are of a high economic importance. Accordingly, the 
European Commission has established criteria that are 
to be applied to various products, regulated under the 
Ecodesign Directive and forming part of the circular 
economy approach.
At Siemens Energy, a significant amount of materials 
and substances are used in its products, manufacturing, 
and services. The selection of materials used in product 
development is of great importance and decisions that 
we take today have an impact on future business risks 
such as legal, environmental, health and safety risks 
and the scarcity of resources. 
We aim to comply with internal polices, legal require-
ments and customer requirements regarding sub -
stance declarations and reporting by establishing a 
pro-active substance management process linked to 
all relevant business processes.For a sustainable product design, the entire life cycle  
of a product must be considered
36
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Sustainable supply chain 
management 
Based on the four elements of productivity, quality, 
availability and innovation, our goal is to play our part 
throughout the value chain.  
• Supply chain management contributes to the 
company’s success
• Sustainability criteria are anchored in supplier 
management
• 60 external sustainability audits conducted in 
the reporting period 
A company’s activities along its supply chain impact 
human rights, labor practices, anti-corruption or envi-
ronmental issues such as climate change. Supply chain 
management (SCM) therefore plays an integral role in 
our undertaking to firmly anchor sustainability 
throughout the entire value chain. Siemens Energy can 
contribute in particular to achieving the UN SDGs, for 
example by giving consideration to sustainability cri-
teria in the selection, qualification, assessment and 
development of its suppliers. Siemens Energy can 
make the biggest contribution to SDG 8 “Decent Work 
and Economic Growth” and SDG 12 “Responsible Con-
sumption and Production”, as regards labor conditions 
among other things, because it considers the entire 
product life cycle and upstream production processes. 
The UN Global Compact also recognizes that the sup-
ply chain plays a “key role for respect of human rights, 
fair working conditions, advances in environmental 
protection, and the fight against corruption”.
As a member of the UN Global Compact, Siemens Energy 
is committed to fulfilling its binding principles in its 
supply chain. With regard to climate protection within our supply chain, for example, we have initiated a pilot 
project to increase transparency over our carbon emis -
sions see chapter  Decarbonization .
In this context, our SCM activities can make a signifi-
cant and lasting contribution to our company’s success. 
This contribution is based on four pillars: productivity, 
quality, availability and innovation. We have a global 
network of approximately 30,000 suppliers. In fiscal 
year 2020, Siemens Energy purchased goods and 
services valued around €17.7 billion (FY 2019: 
€18.1 billion) from other companies, which accounts 
for almost two thirds of our total revenue.
Within our supply chain, we saw some COVID-19-relat -
ed effects on business in the reporting period, such as 
delayed material deliveries. We have set up a task force 
to ensure transparency over the risks associated with 
COVID-19 in the Siemens Energy supply chain. One key 
measure included the implementation of a dashboard 
that provides the supplier status as regards delivery 
capability at all levels of Siemens Energy organizations. 
Close collaboration with sales, procurement, manu -
facturing locations and our suppliers eliminates major 
disruption in our supply chain, as we have established 
a more flexible manufacturing process for our products 
and project installations to address potential delays in 
material deliveries.
37
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Binding Code of Conduct for suppliers
To anchor sustainability in our supply chain, we expect 
all of our suppliers to make a clear commitment to the 
requirements of the Siemens Group Code of Conduct 
for Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries (Code of 
Conduct), which is based on the Business Conduct 
Guidelines and the Principles of the UN Global 
 Compact. The Code of Conduct was adopted by 
Siemens Energy by October 1st 2020.
The Siemens Code of Conduct and the company-wide, 
mandatory requirements and processes based thereon 
enable the specified environmental, compliance and 
labor standards to be effectively established across all 
countries of operations. The Code includes the fol -
lowing requirements:
• Human rights and labor practices, including  (beside 
others)
– Prohibition of forced labor,
– Prohibition of child labor,
– Health and safety of employees
– Grievance mechanism
• Environmental protection
• Fair operating practices, including (beside others)
– Anti-corruption and bribery
– Anti-money laundering, terrorism financing
– Data privacy
• Responsible minerals sourcing
• Compliance with the Code of Conduct in our own 
supply chain
Similarly, SGRE requires its suppliers to comply with its 
Code of Conduct for suppliers and third-party interme -
diaries to enable an ethically responsible business 
culture throughout its supply chain, which is in line 
with the SGRE principles and values according to its 
Business Conduct Guidelines and its Global Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy. The standards established 
thereby shall ensure that the working conditions in the 
supply chain are safe, that workers are treated with 
respect and dignity, and that business operations with 
suppliers are ethically, socially and environmentally 
responsible. Comprehensive supplier management
The supplier management process in place at Siemens  
Energy provides an extensive range of procedures 
and tools to enable transparency and awareness with 
regard to expenses, supplier data and related risks 
and opportunities in the supply chain. It helps manag-
ers to fully leverage the potential of our supplier net -
work. Central aspects of the Gas and Power process 
include applying strict criteria for supplier selection 
and qualification. These include elements such as 
 financial stability, quality and availability together 
with overriding sustainability criteria.
We also introduced a risk analysis system to system-
atically identify potential risks in our supply chain. The 
cornerstones of this system are: 
• Identification of risks and categorization of com -
modities; 
• Introduction of risk levels for individual countries. 
These are determined using sustainability indicators 
for key areas such as compliance with laws, bribery 
and corruption, human rights in the workplace, child 
labor, etc. Here, we make use of information supplied 
by internationally recognized organizations; 
• Including different strategic measures, for example 
special preparation of projects with large, local 
procurement volumes. 
SGRE has implemented a corresponding supplier 
management process for supplier selection and 
qualification. 
Sustainability performance 
measurement
Following this risk-based analysis, we have implement -
ed supplier self-assessments and risk assessments 
conducted by our procurement organization, and sus-
tainability audits conducted by external auditors.
Corporate responsibility self-assessments (CRSA) are 
part of the supplier qualification process that is regu-
larly reviewed and updated as necessary to reflect new 
standards and regulations. New potential suppliers 
undergo a qualification process, while existing suppliers 
are reevaluated every three years. Compared with 
fiscal year 2019, the number of CRSAs increased by 
25% to 1,373 conducted self-assessments. This can be 
mainly explained with our ambition to increase our 
supplier qualification rate where CRSAs are one major 
module. 38
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Corporate Responsibility  
Self-Assessments (CRSA) 1 Fiscal year
Number 2020 2019
Europe, C. I. S.,2 Africa, Middle East 395 430
Americas 301 258 
Asia, Australia 677 410 
Total 1,373 1,098
Agreed upon improvement measures 3 
Legal Compliance/prohibition of corruption 
and bribery 201 47
Respect for the basic human rights  
of employees 109 38 
Prohibition of child labor – 412
Health and safety of employees 79 27 
Environmental protection 103 113
Supply chain 28 8
Responsible minerals sourcing 14 – 5
Total 534 245
1  To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD countries with a purchasing volume 
> €50,000 p. a. Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review. 
2  Commonwealth of Independent States.
3  Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the 
Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries or to structural improve-
ments to management systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the 
supplier. 
4  Integration of category “Prohibition of child labor” into category “Respect for the basic 
human rights of employees”.
5 Introduction of category “Responsible minerals sourcing” in fiscal year 2020.
Supplier quality audits include questions about sus -
tainability that cover all aspects and requirements of 
the Code of Conduct. In fiscal year 2020, we conducted 
334 on-site audits worldwide. The decrease compared 
to 614 supplier quality audits in in fiscal year 2019 is 
due to COVID-19 and the related travel restrictions so 
as to protect our employees.Supplier quality audits with inte-
grated sustainability questions Fiscal year
Number2020 2019
Europe, C. I. S., 1 Africa, Middle East 149 270
Americas 70 182
Asia, Australia 115 162
Total 334 614
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.  
We see external sustainability audits as the most 
 effective means of reviewing our suppliers’ sustainabil -
ity performance. They are performed by one of our 
external audit partners and used as a control mecha-
nism for suppliers assigned to a high-risk exposure. For 
monitoring purposes, audits can be repeated or follow- 
up audits can be performed by our external audit 
partners. The responsible procurement departments 
at Siemens Energy may also agree on a series of 
remedial steps with the supplier. Throughout the 
process, we remain committed to the partnership with 
our suppliers and to helping them improve. However, 
if problems persist and/or the suppliers do not show a 
willingness to take necessary corrective action, we 
remove them from our list of approved suppliers. 
334
Supplier quality audits
by internal experts1,373
Corporate Responsibility 
 Self-Assessments
60
External 
 Sustainability 
AuditsSupplier sustainability assessments39
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
 In fiscal year 2020 Siemens Energy conducted 60 
external sustainability audits. Given the impact of 
COVID-19, this number decreased compared to 84 
conducted audits in fiscal year 2019.
External sustainability audits (ESA) Fiscal year
2020 2019
Europe, C. I. S.,1 Africa, Middle East 5 20 
Americas 5 6 
Asia, Australia 50 58 
Total  60 84
Agreed upon improvement measures 2
Legal Compliance/prohibition of corruption 
and bribery 241 306
Respect for the basic human rights of  
employees 486 562 
Prohibition of child labor 20 25 
Health and safety of employees 590 704 
Environmental protection 36 31 
Supply chain 58 84 
Total 1,431 1,712
1  Commonwealth of Independent States. 
2  Improvement measures agreed upon with suppliers relate either to actual deviations 
from the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries or to structural 
improvements to management systems and the lack of specific processes and guide-
lines at the supplier. 
Our “Central Warning Message” process shall also 
ensure a faster, more efficient response to violations 
of the requirements of the Code of Conduct. All local 
instances of blocked suppliers are reported to Corporate 
SCM, where the need for a worldwide block is discussed 
and decided. 
SCM and EHS (environment, health and safety) experts 
have jointly developed and implemented a special 
selection process for suppliers that mainly carry out 
service business for Siemens Energy. In this process, 
EHS experts must first review and confirm the respons -
es given by the potential contractors in specific ques-
tionnaires containing occupational health and safety 
questions before these can be included in our supplier 
base and contracted.Responsible minerals sourcing
Siemens Energy is committed to preventing the use of 
minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas in 
its supply chain that are affected by the risks defined 
in Annex 2 of the OECD "Due Diligence Guidance for 
Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-  
Affected and High-Risk Areas". 
Siemens Energy has adopted Siemens AG’s “Responsi-
ble Minerals Sourcing Policy” (formerly “Conflict 
Minerals Policy”) and integrated its requirements into 
its procurement process. This policy provides a uniform, 
group-wide supply chain management standard in this 
area and follows the risk-based requirements of the 
OECD Due Diligence Guidance. To determine the use, 
sources and origin of these minerals in our supply 
chains, we investigate the smelters involved. Siemens  
Energy is planning to continue Siemens AG’s active 
membership in the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), 
which provides audit programs for smelters. Over 380 
industrial companies are part of the RMI. 
When surveying our approximately 1,500 (FY 2019: 
2,100) relevant suppliers, we use the RMI’s “Conflict 
Minerals Reporting Template” (CMRT) to obtain the 
necessary information regarding the smelters in our 
supply chain involved in the production of tin, tantalum, 
tungsten and gold (3TG).
The findings on the identified smelters are sent to the 
RMI partners. The RMI then verifies whether the smelters 
found are certified. Siemens Energy is actively involved 
in the “Responsible Minerals Assurance Process” and 
 encourages uncertified smelters to take part in audit 
 programs. Siemens Energy supports them throughout 
the process up until the final audit and certification. 
The  results of the audits are made available on 
the  RMI website.
Based on risk sources identified by the European 
Union, which cover armed conflicts, weak governance 
and human right abuses, Siemens Energy also conducts 
a specific mineral risk assessment in order to identify 
other relevant minerals above and beyond 3TG. As a 
result, cobalt is now integrated into the Siemens Energy 
due diligence processes.
The RMI developed an additional audit standard and 
reporting template for cobalt (CRT), and Siemens Energy 
conducted its first supply chain due diligence for cobalt 
in addition to its 3TG due diligence in the reporting 
period, focusing on its battery suppliers.40
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Anti-corruption and 
integrity
Siemens Energy continuously maintains and develops its 
compliance system. In this way, we want to ensure that our 
values and reputation are protected.
• Compliance is essential for sustainable business 
success
• Zero tolerance of violations of applicable laws 
and internal regulations
• Our premise: Only clean business is 
Siemens Energy business 
Siemens Energy operates globally with customers from 
a wide range of industries in the private and public 
sectors. Therefore, we are confronted with complex 
regulatory requirements. In this context, Siemens Energy 
pursues a zero-tolerance approach toward corruption, 
violations of the principles of fair competition and 
other breaches of the law. When such cases do occur, 
we take immediate action. 
For us, compliance means much more than adhering 
to laws and internal regulations described in the 
Siemens Energy Business Conduct Guidelines. Compli -
ance is the basis for all our decisions and activities, and 
it is the key to integrity when conducting business. Our 
premise is this: Only clean business is Siemens Energy 
business. This applies worldwide and at all levels of 
the organization. In addition to combating corrupt 
behavior and violations of competition and export- 
control law, the Compliance department protects our 
company against fraud and money laundering, and 
safeguards personal data and  Human rights .
Consequently, compliance is a top management pri -
ority at Siemens Energy. The Legal and Compliance 
department falls directly under the purview of our CEO 
and reports directly to him. The Siemens Energy Chief Compliance Officer has direct access to the Executive 
Board and reports regularly on compliance matters.
Furthermore, Siemens Energy supports international 
organizations that strengthen responsible business 
practices. We support the enactment of the United 
Nations Convention against Corruption and the Anti- 
Bribery Convention of the Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD). Moreover, we 
contribute to the achievement of the SDGs. SDG 16 
“Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions” is a call to com -
panies to dramatically reduce bribery and corruption 
in all their forms. This in turn promotes fair competi-
tion – something which benefits innovation-driven 
companies like Siemens Energy. Anti-corruption 
 measures combined with strong compliance systems 
protect companies as well as their employees and 
shareholders from the risk of possible misconduct. 
Countries, regions and their populations can also ben -
efit greatly from stopping corruption. Since corruption 
impedes economic growth and consequently hampers 
sustainable social development, steps taken to combat 
it can contribute to the achievement of all SDGs.
41
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
The compliance system is essential for a 
company-wide zero-tolerance effort
Siemens Energy pursues a zero-tolerance maxim of 
violations of applicable laws and internal regulations. 
That approach requires continuous effort to maintain 
and develop its holistic compliance system, consisting 
of measures to ensure that business is always carried 
out in full accordance with the law as well as our 
 internal principles and rules.
Siemens Energy’s compliance approach is based on the 
three levels of action “prevent, detect, respond”, 
 centering around management’s responsibility, and 
comprising focus areas such as Anti-Corruption, 
 Anti-Money Laundering, Antitrust, Data Privacy, Export 
Control and Human Rights. Gas and Power and SGRE 
have each in turn implemented a compliance system 
and Business Conduct Guidelines of their own.
Preventive measures include the Siemens Energy 
training program, communication channels such as 
our “Speak Up” reporting system and ombudsperson, 
compliance risk management, guidelines and proce -
dures such as the Siemens Energy Business Conduct 
Guidelines. 
Those Business Conduct Guidelines lay the founda -
tions for internal regulations. They also give expression 
to the values, compliance-related responsibilities and 
behavioral framework for all managers, employees 
and Executive Board members worldwide. 
Every single employee makes a valuable contribution in adhering  
to our compliance guidelinesInternal investigations are essential for detecting and 
clarifying misconduct. Unambiguous responses and 
clear consequences serve to punish misconduct and 
eliminate weaknesses. The responsibility all managers 
bear for compliance is the overarching element above 
these three levels.
We continuously adapt and improve our compliance 
system to mitigate challenges and risks arising from 
changing market conditions and inherent in our 
business activities. Unforeseen incidents, such as 
COVID-19, are analyzed and managed within our 
compliance system.Continuous ImprovementPrevent
Detect
RespondManagement
Responsibility
42
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Holistic implementation of the 
compliance system
Siemens Energy compliance combines strong central 
governance with the work of qualified compliance 
officers who ensure that the compliance system is 
implemented worldwide. They work closely with 
 employees and managers who assume personal 
 responsibility for compliance in their respective areas.
This responsibility does not lie solely with executive 
management. Rather, the entire management team is 
required to stand for our commitment to compliance 
and ensure that all business decisions and activities 
that fall within their remit are conducted in conformity 
with the relevant legal requirements and follow our 
own values and company policies. We also expect 
upper and middle management as well as our em -
ployees to demonstrate a strong commitment to com -
pliance. Compliance and integrity are thus deeply 
rooted in our corporate culture. In order to obtain 
 direct feedback from our employees, regular surveys 
are conducted on the subject of integrity. The next 
survey is planned for the fiscal year 2021.Compliance priorities in fiscal year 2020
Our compliance priorities form the basis for the  constant 
development and improvement of our system. All 
compliance employees are actively encouraged to 
contribute to the ongoing development of the compli -
ance system and in fact have an obligation to do so. 
Our compliance priorities are defined as shown in the 
diagram below and aligned annually with changing 
requirements.
Compliance training program 
Our global compliance training program requires all 
managers and employees in positions with a specific 
risk profile to complete compliance training. The com-
pliance officers of the relevant company units identify 
these managers and employees whose participation 
is required and ensure that they attend the training 
sessions. They monitor and confirm compliance with 
these requirements at regular intervals.
Our global compliance training program consists of 
classroom and e-learning courses. The global integrity 
dialogs conducted each year are designed to highlight 
Compliance 
PrioritiesFurther intensify cooperation  
between the compliance  organization 
and our businesses and reinforce our 
compliance system’s market and 
customer focus.Continue providing our businesses with 
the appropriate level of assurance within 
our compliance system.
Continue to further optimize and  
streamline our compliance processes.Provide an excellent compliance 
team through a first-class learning 
and development landscape and 
close collaboration.Foster integrity
Support business management to meet its 
responsibilities for compliance and further 
strengthen the culture of integrity in our 
company and beyond.
Committed to business Manage risk and assurance
Effective processes Excellent compliance teamCompliance priorities43
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
the central importance of integrity and compliance at 
Siemens Energy. This initiative provides a forum for 
managers to engage in an exchange of ideas about 
current compliance issues with their teams. It also 
gives them the opportunity to make use of brief 
 “integrity moments” that can be communicated by 
management at regular meetings or through other 
channels.
The objective is to permanently maintain awareness 
of compliance issues. This begins with induction for 
new hires, further training and refresher courses, and 
extends to continuous reinforcement of the culture of 
integrity by managers.
Compliance risk management 
At Siemens Energy, a reliable compliance risk analysis 
is the key to the success of our corporate strategy and 
planned business objectives. By identifying risks early, 
we are able to make informed decisions on how best 
to avoid or mitigate them. Bottom-up and top-down 
activities, business processes and tools are designed 
and integrated so that we can rapidly and consistently 
identify potential risk scenarios and take appropriate 
action. This enables the compliance organization to 
help the company achieve its goals. In this context, the 
regular Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) was con -
ducted for Gas and Power and separately for SGRE in 
fiscal year 2020. The risks identified in the process 
were addressed through local and central measures.
Compliance risk management is an integral part of the 
company-wide enterprise risk management (ERM) 
program that creates further transparency throughout 
the risk environment.
Each business unit and region assesses its business 
risks in relation to compliance risks, for example anti- 
corruption, antitrust, export controls, money launder -
ing, data protection and human rights. The risks iden-
tified in the individual units worldwide are then 
incorporated into an analysis at Group level that is 
supplemented by additional information from internal 
data sources to derive a complete compliance risk 
overview. On top of this, monitoring to identify new 
and emerging risks is performed through an interdis-
ciplinary exchange at regular risk identification meet-
ings and workshops.  Collaboration with business partners
Under certain circumstances, Siemens Energy can be 
held legally responsible for the actions of its business 
partners. We counter this risk by taking a comprehen-
sive approach to selecting our partners, by contrac-
tually obliging them to adhere to our Code of Conduct 
and by monitoring the ongoing collaborations.  
This Code was updated and published by Siemens AG 
in 2020 and the content taken over by Siemens Energy. 
It is therefore mandatory for Siemens Energy’s business 
partners. It is based on the 10 principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact. It covers legal compliance in 
general and our anti-corruption policies in particular, 
including provisions against anti-competitive practices 
and conflicts of interest. Our process covers the entire 
life cycle of the business partnership. Our compulsory 
company-wide Business Partner Compliance Tool sup-
ports implementation of the process and ensures 
documentation of relevant information and activities. 
We systematically harness the potential of big data 
using dashboards and analytics to improve risk man-
agement and the monitoring of our business partner 
relationships.
Channels for reporting misconduct 
At Siemens Energy, we offer all employees and external 
third parties protected reporting channels for report -
ing violations of external and internal rules. In so 
doing, employees and external third parties help to 
identify and eliminate misconduct and grievances and 
protect themselves and the company against risks and 
any damages that may result.
Circumstances that indicate a violation of external and 
internal rules may be reported to the following persons 
or entities:
• Managers
• Chief Compliance Officer
• Compliance department and Legal department
• Human Resources personnel
• “Speak Up” Hotline
• Siemens Energy ombudsperson
• Employee representatives44
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
We ensure the effectiveness of our compliance system through  
continuous development
Key compliance indicators and   
whistle blowers
Once a compliance investigation has been completed 
and compliance violations have been identified, our 
internal processes provide guidance to ensure that 
appropriate action is taken in respect of the employees 
concerned. Consequences are evaluated and resolved 
through disciplinary processes at central or local level, 
and implementation is systematically monitored.
In fiscal 2020, 143 compliance cases requiring further 
inquiries or investigations were reported. We believe 
that the number of cases compared to 152 reported 
in fiscal 2019 lies within the normal range of variation, 
considering inter alia the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
total number of disciplinary sanctions for compliance 
violations in fiscal 2020 was 65.
Numbers for disciplinary sanctions in a fiscal year do 
not necessarily correspond to cases reported during 
that period: Sanctions are frequently not implemented 
in the same year in which the case was reported or the 
investigation – that follows a due process – was com-
pleted. In addition, a single case may result in multiple 
sanctions, or none at all.Information on possible violations can be provided con -
fidentially and anonymously as needed. The Compli-
ance department of Siemens Energy aims to investigate 
every report and takes appropriate action. We do not 
tolerate any retaliation against complainants or whis -
tleblowers and have stipulated that breaches of this 
prohibition will be punished as compliance violations.
We respond to all allegations of possible violations of 
external and internal rules in accordance with the 
 applicable formal company-wide processes. These 
processes take into account the presumption of 
 innocence and the participation rights of employee 
 representatives where required by local policy. 
Siemens Energy will take appropriate disciplinary 
 action in the event of proven violations.
Siemens Energy applies the same principles to reports 
of wrongdoing brought forward by third parties.
45
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
We believe that, once again, the evidence demon -
strates that our Compliance System is well-designed 
and being implemented effectively. Based on the na-
ture of our businesses, the environments in which we 
work, and the wide range of different geographical 
regions, we do not regard the number of incidents as 
unusual.
Fiscal year
Compliance indicators 2020 2019
Compliance cases reported 1143 152
Disciplinary sanctions 265 –
of which warnings 33 –
of which dismissals 30 –
of which other 32 –
1  In fiscal years 2019 and 2020, in certain countries, Siemens Energy’s gas and power 
business was carried out under agency and distributorship agreements that were 
concluded between Siemens Energy and Siemens AG subsidiaries. The number of 
reported compliance cases in fiscal year 2020 includes eight cases related to 
Siemens Energy business carried out by these Siemens AG subsidiaries on 
Siemens Energy’s behalf (fiscal year 2019: 13).
2  The disciplinary sanctions reporting in FY 2019 was performed on Siemens AG level  
and could not be broken down to Siemens Energy level.
3  Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation components, transfer and 
suspension.
In fiscal year 2020, Siemens Energy is not aware that 
it has been convicted of any corruption, bribery, or 
antitrust violations.
Achievements in fiscal year 2020 
The following milestones were achieved in fiscal year 
2020:
• Gas and Power and SGRE established respective 
stand-alone compliance systems, including relevant 
tools and processes.The Siemens AG compliance 
system served as a basis.
• To ensure that our compliance system is developed 
further in line with the rapidly changing business 
and technology environment, Siemens AG initiated 
a comprehensive project in cooperation with 
Siemens Energy. In this context, various internal 
compliance processes were optimized and a stron-
ger risk focus was generated. We also started to 
modernize the compliance tool landscape.
• The new global and web-based Business Conduct 
Guidelines training had already been completed by 
87% of Siemens Energy employees in the target 
group excluding SGRE by the end of fiscal year 2020.
• New enterprise-wide training on antitrust funda -
mentals was developed and introduced.Pushing targeted optimization
The strategic priorities in the field of compliance will 
guide our work in the upcoming fiscal year and define 
the overriding objective so as to ensure the highest 
level of security in compliance. 
In fiscal year 2021, we will continue to enhance our 
business partner due diligence process, go live with 
compliance tools initiated in fiscal year 2020 and 
explore the possibilities of digitalization, including 
artificial intelligence and data analysis, with the aim 
of optimizing our risk assessment and establishing a 
continuous compliance monitoring system.
We will also continue to work on refining the Siemens  
Energy compliance system in order to tailor it even 
more to the individual risks and opportunities of our 
business and the organizational structure of Siemens  
Energy. It is planned to introduce further centralized 
continuous monitoring elements in 2021 to comple-
ment our existing compliance risk management 
 system. Using data from defined processes and tools 
in addition to analyses and information from external 
sources will allow us to obtain a more holistic overview 
of compliance risks.46
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Human rights 
Siemens Energy considers respect for human rights to be an 
integral part of its responsibility as a global business. 
• Commitment to leading international standards
• Respect for human rights anchored across  
the value chain
•  Ongoing enhancement of due diligence 
processes
Stakeholder expectations and our 
commitment to international standards
Respect for human rights is high on our and our stake-
holders’ agenda. Not only do the UN Sustainable 
 Development Goals contain numerous targets related 
to ensuring human rights. Leading organizations such 
as the UN Global Compact, the Organisation for Eco-
nomic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Inter -
national Finance Corporation (IFC) have also issued 
standards that define expectations toward responsible 
business behavior and the protection of human rights 
across the value chain. Our employees, customers, 
shareholders, civil organizations and other stakehold-
ers increasingly scrutinize our business practices 
against those standards.
Siemens Energy is a global business affecting people 
and the environment all around the world, especially 
in the course of large energy projects. We are con -
scious of the responsibility that this global impact 
brings and consider respect for human rights to be a 
As a global player, Siemens Energy is responsible for ensuring that the respect for human rights 
is central to all business areas and activities
47
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
core element of responsible business conduct. 
Siemens Energy, is thus committed to ensuring respect 
for human rights within its spheres of influence. This 
goes beyond compliance with applicable laws and reg-
ulations and includes our commitment to: 
• International Bill of Human Rights, consisting of: 
– Universal Declaration of Human Rights; 
– International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights; and 
– International Covenant on Economic, Social and 
Cultural Rights
• European Convention on Human Rights 
• ILO (International Labour Organization) Tripartite 
Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational 
Enterprises and Social Policy, ILO Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (in par -
ticular, on the following topics: elimination of child 
labor, abolition of forced labor, prohibition of dis -
crimination, freedom of association and the right to 
collective bargaining) and fundamental freedoms
• UN Sustainable Development Goals, specifically 
SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth”, which 
we have defined as one of our priority SDGs 
• United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights (UNGPs) 
• OECD guidance on responsible business conduct 
and human rights 
• UN Global Compact principles, to which we are a 
signatory   UN GC table .
Identification of material human rights 
topics
Human rights topics that have been identified as ma-
terial by Siemens AG still continue to be material for 
Siemens Energy. They have been selected based on a 
comprehensive stakeholder survey in 2019 as well as 
on input from external experts, business network 
exchanges and our experiences with critical and con-
troversial projects. Siemens Energy is currently evalu-
ating which existing networks Siemens Energy will 
continue to participate in.  
Human rights in the supply chain:
• Fair working conditions 
• Freedom of assembly
• Prohibition of discrimination
• Prohibition of forced labor and child labor 
• Health and safety standardsHuman rights in the workplace:
• Health and safety standards
• Fair working conditions 
• Prohibition of discrimination
Human rights in customer projects:
• Sector-specific human rights risks
• Impact on communities
• Fair working conditions
• Prohibition of modern slavery
• Prohibition of discrimination
• Upholding human rights in occupied territories
In future, we will regularly review the list of human 
rights topics across the value chain. It forms the basis 
for our risk-based due diligence approaches.   
Anchoring our commitment 
Our commitment to respect human rights is written 
into Siemens Energy’s Business Conduct Guidelines 
(BCGs), with special emphasis on Siemens Energy’s 
company values caring, agile, respectful and account-
able. The BCGs are binding on all executives and em-
ployees worldwide, who have to actively accept them 
and are being trained in their content via mandatory 
web-based training sessions. In the reporting period, 
the Siemens AG BCGs were applicable. On October 1, 
Siemens Energy released its own BCGs, keeping the 
essence of the Siemens AG guidelines. In the course 
of fiscal year 2021, all employees will be required to 
accept the BCGs anew and undergo the related training.We regularly review the list of material human rights topics  
across the value chain
48
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
SGRE has also firmly established its commitment to 
respect human rights in its Business Conduct Guide -
lines and formalized the Group’s commitment to 
absolute respect for human and labor rights in its 
Human Rights policy.
In the reporting period, the approach to addressing 
human rights, including progress and challenges, was 
regularly discussed on the Siemens AG Sustainability 
Board. The Supervisory Board of Siemens AG was also 
briefed on the challenges that arose in protecting 
human rights as well as on the areas of focus. The 
management of Siemens Energy will likewise devote 
time and effort to this topic.
Respect for human rights in employee 
relations
Respecting human rights in employee relations is a 
core aspect of our commitment.  See further informa-
tion  in the chapter   Working at Siemens Energy and on 
safe and healthy working conditions in the chap -
ter  Occupational health and safety .
Respect for human rights in the supply chain 
and in business partner relations
During the reporting period, business partners were 
required to comply with the Siemens Group Code of 
Conduct for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries. 
This is essentially based on the principles of the UN 
Global Compact and the ILO, but contains more 
far-reaching requirements.
With regards to human rights, the Code emphasizes in 
particular respect for the basic human rights of em -
ployees, including fair remuneration, freedom of as -
sembly, health and safety standards, and prohibition 
of discrimination, forced labor and child labor. 
Siemens Energy has taken over the content of the 
Siemens AG Code of Conduct and implemented the 
Siemens Energy Code of Conduct as of October 1, 2020. 
Suppliers and certain business partners can take advan -
tage of specific training programs at Siemens AG fo -
cused on health and safety. Siemens Energy plans to 
continue this offering as well (see chapter   Sustainable 
Supply Chain Management ). Siemens Energy has taken 
over Siemens AG’s “Responsible Minerals Sourcing 
Policy” (formerly “Conflict Minerals Policy”) and inte -
grated it into its procurement process (see chapter    
 Sustainable Supply Chain Management ).Human rights due diligence in customer 
projects
In fiscal year 2020, Siemens Energy followed 
Siemens AG’s approach to human rights due diligence 
in customer projects. Thus, due diligence is mandatory 
in the sales phase for projects that meet defined risk 
criteria. This process is set up in conformity with 
the UNGPs. The results of the due diligence are 
 decisive for the project’s decision-making process. 
Siemens Energy is continuously striving to improve its 
due diligence process.
Grievance mechanisms and human 
rights-related query channels
In the reporting period, Siemens AG made anonymous 
channels available for Group employees and external 
parties to submit complaints and questions about 
human rights. Similar channels will also be put in place 
at Siemens Energy. These are described in the chap -
ter  Anti-corruption and integrity . In the reporting 
period, Siemens Energy is not aware of any human 
rights-related issues submitted via these channels.
Transparency
We are aware that some of our business activities are 
taking place in difficult business environments and are 
thus a controversial topic of discussion among our 
stakeholders. In the upcoming fiscal year, Siemens  
Energy aims to increase transparency over critical 
 projects and our approach to mitigating related 
environ mental and social risks.In our customer projects, we ensure compliance with human rights  
due diligence, using a risk-based approach
49
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Siemens Energy is a 
welcoming, inclusive and 
diverse company
We believe that diversity is a fact and inclusion is a 
choice. Diversity is about getting a mix and inclusion 
is about making sure that the mix works well 
together. At Siemens Energy, we promote a culture 
of equal opportunity, belonging and openness. We 
want to listen respectfully, to learn from others and 
to mutually benefit from our differences. In doing 
so, we are building a company that leverages the 
power of multivariate and cognitive diversity to 
master the energy transition; where our leaders and 
managers promote difference and flexibility, and 
where every single person can be their authentic 
self and fulfill their potential.  What is your ambition for inclusion and diversity at 
Siemens Energy?
My ambition is for all of us to create a welcoming, open 
and diverse organization. An inclusive culture brings 
our purpose to life; it ignites our innovation potential, 
paves our way toward a sustainable future and helps 
us transform ourselves, our customers and ultimately 
our society by representing all dimensions of diversity, 
mirroring the societies we serve.
What role does leadership have in creating a 
 welcoming, inclusive and diverse organization?
Inclusion starts with leadership. I expect every leader 
in Siemens Energy to commit to adopting, promoting 
and role modelling inclusive leadership in all that they 
do. I believe that being inclusive and managing across 
diverse teams is a mandatory competency of leadership.
Where are we now?
We have to be honest with ourselves and acknowledge 
that although we have made some progress, we still 
have a lot of work to do. We can and must do better in 
all aspects of diversity. We must aspire to create a 
sense of belonging, characterized by openness and 
equality in our workplace. There is a plan to take im-
mediate action on certain aspects, and we will engage 
the organization in dialogue about what we can do 
better. With everyone’s support, I know we can do 
better and build the welcoming, inclusive and diverse 
company that I believe we can be.Maria Ferraro
Chief Financial Officer and  
Chief Inclusion & Diversity Officer of 
Siemens Energy 
Our goals
Our statusThree questions to…
SGRE: 
25%
of women in 
 management posi-
tions by 2025 Gas and  
Power:  
25%
of women in top leadership 
functions by 2025  
(30% by 2030)
Gas and Power: 
21%
women in top  
leadership  
functions SGRE: 
12%
women in manage -
ment positions 
50
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Working at 
Siemens Energy 
Our strategy and operational excellence are transformative, 
and our people are the ones who make both real. 
• Our cultural transformation program builds  
on our values and behaviors 
• Inclusion and diversity are key to our culture  
of openness and innovation 
• We aim to transform ourselves into a future-fit 
learning organization 
Our vision is to become the most valued energy tech-
nology company in the world. In order to achieve this 
goal, we aim to transform our company’s culture, 
employ and retain a diverse workforce, and ensure 
that we develop our current employees and attract 
the best future talent. As a truly global player, we 
have people of 138 nationalities working at our com-
pany. Our global reach, with direct access to local 
expertise and market understanding, is an asset with 
competitive advantages which we continuously  develop for our customers, employees and sharehold-
ers worldwide.
For our reporting segment Gas and Power, the People 
Agenda, designed in May 2020, will help us achieve 
our business priorities. It is closely intertwined with 
the business strategy and our strategic company pro-
gram “Energy of Tomorrow”. With tailored programs 
and actions along three pillars – vibrant workforce, 
game-changing leaders and thriving environment – 
we aim to enable Gas and Power to excel through our 
people. Core elements, such as the business and 
cultural transformation journey, the Employee Experi-
ence (EX) program and the Inclusion & Diversity strategy, 
started upon the launch of the People Agenda. Addi-
tional elements will be launched in fiscal year 2021. 
The purpose of our SGRE reporting segment is to “Em-
power people to lead the future”. This goes beyond 
selling and delivering to customers; it is what drives 
the business strategy, the way the company is orga -
nized, how decisions are made, who is hired, and how 
the company and employees grow. SGRE has therefore 
established the “Culture of Trust program” to ensure 
and support the development of a shared company 
culture across the group. It is based on three pillars: 
continuous learning, empowerment and diversity.
Through our human resources activities, we contribute 
mainly to SDG 4 “Quality Education”, SDG 5 “Gender 
Equality”, SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth” 
and SDG 10 “Reduced Inequalities”.
We want to provide our employees with the best  
development opportunities
51
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Employee structure 
As of September 30, 2020, Siemens Energy had 
around 93,000 (FY 2019: 89,000) employees 1 world-
wide, 26,000 (FY 2019: 24,000) of whom worked for 
SGRE. During the fiscal year on average 92,000 em-
ployees worked for the company. The increase in the 
total number of employees is mainly driven by the 
SGRE acquisition of selected European assets of 
Senvion as well as by indirect employee transfers from 
Siemens AG’s Support Functions to Gas and Power in 
the context of the carve-out from Siemens AG. Women 
accounted for 19.1% (FY 2019: 17.8%) of the work -
force and 19.2% (FY 2019: 15.7%) of all new hires. The 
share of employees with permanent working contracts 
is 94.3% (FY 2019: 94.7%). The worldwide average 
working week 2 at Gas and Power was 39 hours with 
no changes in comparison to 2019. About 3,500 
(FY 2019: 3,000) employees, or 3.8%, worked part-
time and around 2,000 (FY 2019: 2,200) were on 
leave of absence. The average employee age was 42 
(FY 2019: 42).
1 All figures in this section refer to the headcount.
2 Contractually agreed weekly working hours as of September 30.
Number of Employees
(in thousands)September 30
2020 2019
Europe, CIS 1, Africa, Middle East 61.6 58.7
Americas 19.6 19.0
Asia, Australia 11.7 11.2
Total 92.9 89.2
1  CIS: Commonwealth of Independent States
Age structure
(in % of total headcount)September 30
2020 2019
<35 26 27
35–44 33 32
45–54 25 25
>54 16 16
 
In fiscal year 2020 Siemens Energy hired around 9,000 
employees worldwide and 8,400 employees left. Of 
this figure, 3.5% were voluntary exits and 5.7% left 
the company for other reasons. At Gas and Power, dis-
missals by the company accounted for 23% (FY 2019: 
29%) of employee departures.Employee fluctuationFiscal year
2020 2019
Hirings (in thousands) 9.0 9.5
Recruitment rate 19.9% 10.7%
Exits (in thousands) 8.4 9.1
Turnover rate 2 – total 9.2% 10.5%
Turnover rate – voluntary 3.5% 4.3%
Turnover rate – other reasons 5.7% 6.2%
1  The recruitment rate is calculated as the number of new employee hires at 
Siemens Energy during the fiscal year divided by the average headcount.
2  The turnover rate is calculated as the number of voluntary and involuntary (all other) 
departures at Siemens Energy during the fiscal year divided by the average number of 
employees.
Cultural transformation
We care about our employees and they help us shape 
our company culture. Culture is created and changed 
through behaviors. Together with over 800 colleagues 
from 48 countries, we co-created and designed the 
Gas and Power values and behaviors. In a survey, ran-
domly selected colleagues – representing blue-collar, 
white-collar and works council members – were asked 
for their opinion. Together with the Executive Board, 
they were able to identify and define four specific values 
and behaviors that we believe, when lived and experi-
enced every day, will create the culture we aspire to.
Our values are: Caring, Agile, Respectful and Accountable. 
The four behaviors are  
• “Focus on the customer” – which is about listening 
to them and being open and willing to adapt in order 
to support them.
• “Decisively moving forward” – which is aimed at 
making and executing the relevant decisions, even 
when circumstances are uncertain.
• “Be open and inclusive” – which addresses the power 
of diversity and inclusion in developing new inno -
vations and a learning organization.
• “Build strong partnerships” – which highlights the 
need to build strong partnerships of trust by caring 
and delivering reliably on the promises we make to 
each other, our communities and our customers.
To support our employees in embracing our company’s 
cultural transformation, we need to create game-chang -
ing leaders who are adaptive to change and role-model 
business transformation while building a sustainable 52
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
leadership pipeline. As part of our transformation and 
cultural change strategy, we focus on driving leadership 
journeys, enriching the transformation platforms and 
expanding the transformation network. 
• Leadership Journeys:
  Senior leaders have embarked on transformation 
journeys to ensure leaders and their leadership 
teams role-model and shape the Gas and Power 
culture and way of working, living the values and 
behaviors.
• Transformation Platforms: 
  Through transformation accelerator (TA) boot -
camps, we use the train-the-trainer approach to 
share the language and methods of transformation 
so that middle managers are equipped to drive 
change in Gas and Power. Employees who develop 
in-depth expertise and understanding of the trans-
formation methods become ‘Master Transformation 
Accelerators’ and learn to train new TAs. All TAs lead 
peer-to-peer transformation bootcamps in the busi -
ness. The bootcamps are cross-hierarchy, cross-silo 
learning events aimed at spreading the ideas and 
methods widely and attracting additional change 
agents. During the pandemic, transformation 
 accelerator bootcamps have been taking place in 
virtual form across the world, with participants 
from different geographies and parts of the business.  • Transformation Network:
  Building on existing Division and Business Unit-
based networks, the aligned change network works 
as an umbrella that ensures broad reach within the 
organization. Aligned Gas and Power networks 
should ensure that the purpose, mission, behaviors 
and way of working come to life throughout the 
organization. Networks are used for communica -
tion, driving change and as the channel for involv -
ing employees in decision-making. 
Rewarding our vibrant workforce
Part of our People Agenda is to align financial and 
other employee rewards with our strategy, purpose 
and values in order to embed a growth and perfor -
mance mindset. One aspect is our range of share plans 
for employees at every level, which was designed in 
fiscal year 2020 and will go live from October 2020 
onwards. The share plans will offer our employees the 
opportunity to invest and benefit from our company’s 
long-term performance right from the start. 
In September 2020, for example, we announced the 
“Employee Spin-off Incentive Program”. We will reward 
our employees for their tremendous efforts in ensuring 
our company’s successful spin-off and public listing. 
Under the program, eligible Gas and Power employees 1 
will be allocated stock awards without making any 
additional payment. These stock awards entitle them Siemens Energy takes various measures to promote women  
in the field of engineering
1  In principle, Gas and Power employees with employee status will be 
eligible, as will apprentices as of September 25, 2020. Working students, 
interns, scholarship holders, bachelor, master or diploma students and 
beneficiaries of the “Building Siemens Energy Incentive Program” are not 
eligible for the program. Due to local circumstances, different regula-
tions may apply regionally.
53
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
to receive Siemens Energy shares at the end of the 
vesting period in September 2023.  
In addition, we will implement further share plans, 
giving every Gas and Power employee – from the shop 
floor to the Executive Board – the opportunity to hold 
a part of our company and encouraging them to take 
a stake in the company as responsible shareholders.
At SGRE, there is a long-term incentive plan fully based 
on SGRE shares for senior management. The plan’s 
primary objective is to align its beneficiaries’ interests 
with the interests of the company’s shareholders and 
to offer beneficiaries an incentive to help the company 
attain its strategic objectives.
Listening to our employees
To support the company’s transformation, we have set 
up the global “SE Voices” survey, which will go live in 
October 2020. SE Voices is our new employee engage-
ment survey that will be held twice a year. It will be 
open to all Gas and Power employees, regardless of 
location or position. The aim is to listen to the voices 
of our people and to measure their level of engage -
ment. The results will enable data-driven decisions and 
scaled actions at organization, team and individual level. 
To enable our employees to influence and improve 
their employee experience, we initiated our Employee 
Experience (EX) initiative in April 2020. From moments 
as big as the interview to moments as small as filling 
out an expense report, Employee Experience looks at 
how these moments can be improved. A survey on 
Employee Experience, distributed to a random group 
of 6,500 global Gas and Power employees in four 
countries (Germany, the United States, China and the 
United Kingdom) in August to September 2020, helped 
us establish our baseline to measure improvements.  
Thriving environment through inclusion 
and diversity  
We support that everyone at Siemens Energy can bring 
their whole self to work and achieve their full potential. 
All employees are encouraged to develop in accor -
dance with their own talents and preferences and to 
be able to count on equal treatment in a non-discrim-
inatory work setting. We actively maintain a workplace 
environment that is open to everybody regardless of 
their ethnic origin, religion, world view, age, disability, 
gender and sexual orientation. We strive to create safe, 
welcoming workplaces with cultures that encourage 
equality, belonging and engaging dialog throughout the whole organization. We listen respectfully so as to 
learn from others and leverage our differences so as 
to innovate for better solutions.
With our focus on inclusion and diversity, we aim to
• have access to broader talent pools from which to 
source the diverse capabilities we need to power our 
innovation
• bring together different experiences and perspectives 
to solve the complex challenges in our industry
• become more productive through faster, better-quality 
decisions with less cognitive bias or group think
• enhance our reputation while being representatives 
of the communities we serveFostering female careers in engineering
Our colleague Amber O’Connor works as a Performance & 
Analytics Engineer and Remote Services Manager. At age 26, 
she leads a team of five experts who ensure that our gas 
turbines are running as efficiently as possible in every region 
of the world, which helps our customers reduce emissions. 
With rapid developments in sustainable fuels such as solar, 
wind and hydrogen, Amber is optimistic that the energy 
landscape will be transforming in the near future. Amber, 
who is a mother of two, is also a champion of diversity. 
Whilst Siemens Energy has set the goal of having 25% of top 
leadership positions filled by females by 2025, Amber is 
convinced that addressing this means working from all sides. 
She thus encourages young women to enter in engineering 
in lectures and at career fairs. In December 2019, she was 
among the six finalists for the “Young Woman Engineer of 
the Year” award and in 2020, she was honored as a “Rising 
Star in Science and Engineering”. Amber sees these suc -
cesses as an opportunity to connect with other women in 
the industry and advance female careers in engineering.
54
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Moreover, we have started to ensure long-term gender 
balance in our talent pools. We are widening the focus 
beyond gender to include other dimensions of diver -
sity. Going forward, our focus will be on:  
• Equal opportunity – use open and transparent 
 processes to attract, promote, develop and retain 
people with different skills, abilities and ideas  
• Belonging – make the mix work by creating an inclu -
sive culture where people feel respected, engaged, 
able to speak up and be themselves  
• Society and partnership – work together with cus -
tomers and partners to support us and our industry 
to become more diverse and inclusive
To ensure impactful implementation, we have developed 
a Global Inclusion & Diversity dashboard for Gas and 
Power to measure our progress. It includes performance 
indicators covering multivariant diversity such as the 
share of women and minorities in management and 
hiring, the number of employee networks in all dimen -
sions of inclusion and the ”SE Voices” employee survey 
results. It has been initiated for regular reporting to the 
Chief Inclusion & Diversity Officer (CIDO), a role estab -
lished at board level, and relevant management groups.  
SGRE is a strong advocate of diversity, inclusion and 
equal opportunities, too. Valuing the importance of 
the individual is one of the cornerstones of its culture, 
as its employees represent a large variety of cultures, 
ethnicities, beliefs and languages. SGRE has an Inclu-
sion & Diversity policy in place, the principles of which 
apply to all geographic regions where it is present. It aims to ensure equality and inclusion and avoid any 
kind of discrimination based on ethnicity, gender,  civil 
status, ideology, political opinions, nationality, religion 
or any other personal, physical or social characteristics.
Our activities can contribute to the United Nations’ 
Agenda 2030 in many respects, be it through the pro-
motion of equality, educational opportunities, job 
creation or inclusive society.
Examples for our activities:
a)   Gas and Power is an active member of the SWE 
(Society of Women Engineers) Corporate Partner 
Council in the US. As an official member, we pro -
mote opportunities for women in the engineering 
and technology workforce, share best practices by 
supporting the annual conference such as the last 
one in November 2019, address retention and ad-
vancement issues, and partner on diversity initia -
tives with other local organizations. 
b)  Our local employee initiatives in the UK have taken 
grassroots action to drive inclusive culture. For 
 example, during the national inclusion week in 
 November 2019, Gas and Power ran an Inclusion Lab 
in multiple locations such as Monkton and Newcas-
tle to discuss diversity research project results and 
women in science and engineering while showcas-
ing flexibility policy and speak-up inquiries. During 
International Women’s Day on March 8, 2020, 
 colleagues in Warwick took the #PressForProgress 
initiative and, as a follow-up at their annual festival, 
initiated the Engineer21 change program, which 
looks to build a workplace to better support the 
 creative, innovative nature of engineering that is not 
always recognized.
c)  Under the umbrella of a family-friendly corporate 
policy, Gas and Power employees in Germany can 
avail themselves of a range of opportunities to tailor 
their working times and place of work to their needs, 
such as part-time and mobile working, and to have 
the flexibility to care for children or sick relatives.
d)  We advocate equal opportunity for people with 
disabilities, their inclusion in society and the work -
place, and their self-determined participation and 
right to be treated with respect. In Germany, for 
example, Siemens AG has concluded an inclusion 
agreement on this matter with the employee 
 representatives that is also applicable to Gas and 
Power. About 1,400 people with a disability currently Over a period of four years, 5,500 Egyptian engineers and  
technicians are being trained in our mega project in Egypt
55
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
work at Siemens Energy in Germany. We aim to 
achieve a barrier-free work environment so that 
workplaces are accessible to people with disabili -
ties. This is something we also intend to facilitate 
outside Germany through IT applications, barrier-  
free, accessible communication and training semi-
nars. In Brazil, Siemens Energy is collaborating with 
Oportunidades Especiais which is specialized in 
hiring disabled persons.
Training and education
We aspire to transform ourselves into a learning orga-
nization where individuals, teams and organizational 
units will have access to digital, real-time and person-
alized learning offerings. The opportunity to learn and 
grow is a core component of the Employee Experience. 
Learners own their learning and we support them on 
their learning journey. 
At Siemens Energy, learning initiatives support the 
company vision by enhancing employees’ skills, devel-
oping competencies and thus enabling them to per -
form better in their role. Its mission is to support short-
term performance and build long-term capabilities. 
Learning activities at Gas and Power are concentrated 
on two areas: 
• Learning how to use our products and solutions at 
the academies run by our business units. 
• Building the skills that managers and employees 
need to be successful in their everyday work, includ-
ing leadership topics, strategy development, digita-
lization with new business and service models, 
change management, collaboration and team com-
munication. They are conveyed through training 
and learning programs under the responsibility of 
Gas and Power Human Resources.
In fiscal year 2020, Gas and Power employees had 
unrestricted access to Siemens AG’s further education 
programs as well as to our complementary product 
academies, such as the Power Academy. A dedicated 
learning platform providing company-wide access to 
learning opportunities has been created for the future. 
Siemens Energy spent around €60 million (FY 2019: 
~€70 million) on further education in fiscal year 2020, 
an average of €654 (FY 2019: €795) per employee.
Through its vocational training programs in Germany, 
our reporting segment Gas and Power aims to make 
school graduates attractive offers. As of September 30, 
2020, there were 2,165 (FY 2019: 2,117) trainees and students enrolled in work-study programs: 1,167 
(FY 2019: 1,233) internals and 998 (FY 2019: 884) 
externals from other companies. In fall 2020, a total 
of 229 (FY 2019: 284) graduates began an apprentice -
ship or a work-study program, and there were 315 
(FY 2019: 313) external trainees.
In addition to the apprentices in Germany, we have rolled 
out this concept internationally and train people all over 
the world. Our portfolio includes vocational and work-
study programs in technical, IT and commercial fields.
To ensure the high employability of our young talent, 
we continually innovate our curricula. Developing 
future skills in digitalization and energy-specific topics 
are key drivers to accelerate our company’s transfor -
mation.
SGRE employees had access to separate training cours -
es and continuous learning opportunities offered by 
SGRE’s own learning units such as the Wind Academy. 
Its learning services provide consultancy, tools and 
delivery of different activities throughout the business.
“New normal” concept
From the experience of the COVID-19 pandemic, a 
cross-functional team started to develop a tailor-made 
“new normal” concept for Gas and Power. The concept 
under the campaign banner #BetterTogether is cen -
tered around our values. The key principles are:
• We leverage the benefits of flexibility to foster a 
business model that focuses on outcomes and per -
formance, as well as company growth. We turn our 
offices into centers for collaboration to foster cul -
ture and creativity. Our offices will remain the key 
destination to interact, cross-collaborate, innovate 
and build relationships.
• #BetterTogether is not about one size fits all. Many 
jobs still require spending all or most of the time at 
a certain location – be it in an office, factory or in 
the field at a customer site. Others can be performed 
by combining remote and office work. 
#BetterTogether is focused around four key areas: 
 People & Culture, Workplace, Employee Wellbeing and 
IT & Tools.
Each area has created guiding principles and will ask 
the countries to define their approach within them. We 
want to provide the space and time to try things out 
and develop tailored solutions for businesses and 
countries according to their needs.56
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Health and safety –   
a top priority at 
Siemens Energy
The people at Siemens Energy are particularly 
important. Their health and safety are our top 
priority. We want our employees to be able to 
work in a safe environment that promotes 
health. This is why we focus all our attention 
on avoiding work related incidents and 
occupational illnesses. What does health and safety mean for Siemens Energy?
Our company can only be as good as our people. They are 
our greatest strength. That’s why we want all employees 
to have a healthy and safe working environment – at all 
times. Our goal is: zero harm, zero fatalities. A key factor 
in ensuring effective health and safety management is an 
understanding of our risks and how these are controlled 
through safe practices. Thus, we continuously review 
health and safety aspects including incidents, near misses 
and unsafe conditions.
How do you ensure your health and safety approach is 
implemented across your organization?
All of us must recognize and manage health and safety as 
an intrinsic part of our work – and act accordingly. Thus, 
we have implemented mandatory behaviors, such as no 
calls while driving or stopping work immediately if some-
thing doesn’t seem right. By giving clear guidance and 
having the authority to act on all levels, we drive owner -
ship and accountability across our company. At the same 
time, we put a special focus on our managers. During 
regular “eye on safety” reviews, we share actual cases, 
learnings and preventive measures with the operational 
management to ensure a high level of awareness and 
sharpen competencies.
How do you engage with your partners on health  
and safety?
At Siemens Energy, we are fully committed to protecting 
not only our employees, but also our customers, contrac-
tors and suppliers from any potential risk of harm that 
could be caused by our activities. To support this objective, 
we place emphasis on the health and safety standards in 
our supplier qualification process, share our health and 
safety principles before we sign a contract and monitor 
our supplier safety performance, which serves as feedback 
to our supply chain. Also, our customers and contractors 
are involved in various local and site-specific health and 
safety activities.Tim Holt
Member of the Executive Board and 
Labor Director of Siemens Energy
Our goals
Our statusLTIFR:
year over year  
improvement,  
individual goals  
for Divisions
LTIFR:
0.270
fatalities
5
fatalities
Three questions to…57
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Occupational health  
and safety
We want our employees to be able to work in a safe 
environment that promotes health, and we focus all our 
attention on avoiding accidents and occupational illnesses.
• Our goal is zero occupational accidents 
• ISO 45001 as a central set of rules for 
 occupational health and safety
• Sustainable health management focuses on 
prevention
 
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) is an essential 
part of our business practices and is aligned with the 
Siemens Energy EHS (Environmental, Health and Safe-
ty) Principles and Core Responsibilities as well as our 
Business Conduct Guidelines. We will use these as the 
foundation for the development of our EHS manage-
ment approach and processes.Siemens Energy’s key objective is to provide a safe and 
healthy working environment for all employees, part-
ners, contractors and suppliers. 
OHS is directly related to the achievement of the SDGs, 
with a focus on SDG 3 “Good Health and Well-Being”, 
which aims to ensure healthy lives and promote well-
being for all at all ages, and SDG 8 “Decent Work and 
Economic Growth”, which aims to promote sustained, 
inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and 
productive employment, and decent work for all. At 
our Siemens Energy offices, manufacturing facilities 
and project sites, we will identify and monitor oppor -
tunities for improvement in OHS standards and align-
ment with SDGs 3 and 8.
Health and safety culture provides the 
foundation
“Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens” is a Siemens AG pro -
gram that focuses on health and safety cultural devel-
opment. The aim is to transform the way management 
and employees recognize health and safety as an 
 intrinsic aspect of their work and act accordingly. 
Siemens Energy continued to support the “Zero Harm 
Culture at Siemens” program throughout the last fiscal 
year and has now developed its own zero-harm prin-
ciples and behaviors. Going forward, these will be 
communicated to all parts of the business, our employ -
ees and other stakeholders.
With our OHS practices, we foster a safe working atmosphere and  
the health of all employees
58
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Our principles:
• Zero harm is achievable 
  By understanding and mitigating risks. By being 
aware of the way we act and the behaviors we 
promote.
• We do not compromise
  By holding each other accountable for integrating 
our zero-harm behaviors and principles in all oper -
ational phases as well as in any decision-making 
and change management processes.
• We take care of each other 
  By encouraging timely and honest conversations. 
By employing respectful listening and learning with 
the full inclusion of everybody we work with. 
• We develop locally and share globally 
  By building on our zero-harm behaviors and princi-
ples. By reflecting local risks and conditions. By 
 being agile in sharing and learning from each other.
Our behaviors:
Everyone is a role model. Everyone in our company is 
expected to follow the Zero Harm behaviors, regard -
less of the type of work or position. This also applies 
to temporary workers. 
• Risk assessment – Emphasizing the need for effec-
tive risk assessment and control. 
• STOP! – Empowering employees and other stake-
holders to stop a work activity due to an unsafe 
action or unsafe conditions.
• Incident management – Reporting all incidents 
and near misses. Identifying causes and actions to 
prevent reoccurrence. We will not leave any incident 
unreported or unaddressed.
• Driving – Operating and driving vehicles safely and 
responsibly. 
• Health – Being physically and mentally ready to 
perform our assigned tasks. 
• Environment – Reducing the environmental impacts 
of our work activities and establishing opportunities 
to protect the environment and resources.
We will remain committed to a positive health and safety 
culture across all aspects of our business and will engage 
with employees, contractors, suppliers, stakeholders and 
other interested parties to support this approach.
SGRE also works hard to instill a strong safety and 
 zero-harm culture across the entire business and has 
launched initiatives to foster and promote a zero- harm 
culture, including: • “Safety is My Choice,” which aims to bring focus to 
individual behaviors by reminding employees of 
their own role and responsibility in safety at work as 
a key success.
• Ten life-saving rules, introduced globally, are intended 
to raise awareness of safety hazards through inci -
dents and to avoid reoccurrence. They include: permit 
to work, energy isolation, safety guards, driving 
safety, vehicle movements, suspended loads, drugs 
and alcohol, working at height, use of personal pro-
tective equipment and tools and dropped objects.
• “LeadSafe” aims to enable the organization to accel-
erate its progress towards zero accidents and inju -
ries. The “LeadSafe” project has three focus areas:
1.  Raising risk awareness throughout the company
2.  Building leadership skills related to safety manage -
ment
3.  Improving the safety of our engineering processes.
Health and safety policy
To support the fundamental requirements for good 
OHS, we have established a health and safety policy 
that aligns with our zero-harm principles and behaviors 
demonstrating:
• Strong leadership, ownership and commitment
• Promotion of good health and safety conduct
• Commitment to continuous improvement
• Hazard identification, risk assessment and prevention
• Compliance with principles, standards and behaviors
To support the health and safety policy, the ISO 45001 
standard provides guidance so that international and 
local regulation, laws, standards and practices that 
govern health and safety are observed and complied 
with wherever Siemens Energy operates. The standard 
sets a framework for the deployment of effective man-
agement systems, identification of potential risks and 
hazards, management of non-conformities, opportu-
nities for improvement as well as internal audit and 
review. It also provides guidance on safe and healthy 
workplaces contributing to the prevention and reduc-
tion of work-related injuries and ill health. In the re -
porting period, one of Siemens AG’s objectives was to 
have all OHS management systems within the business 
certified to ISO 45001. Siemens Energy has the same 
operational objective and all business units will be 
expected to review and update their local integrated 
management systems and current certifications.59
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Health and safety performance under 
review
Auditing at site level
In fiscal year 2020, Siemens AG completed a series of 
OHS audits related to high-risk activities and, both 
internally and externally, inspections were conducted 
at country and organization level to establish the 
 effectiveness of safety risk management at manufac-
turing, service and project sites, including activities 
and sites that now form part of Siemens Energy. 
 Although many sites demonstrated robust and effective 
safety controls, others fell significantly below expec -
tations and revealed the need for decisive corrective 
action and continuous improvement.
Siemens Energy will continue with a robust approach 
to OHS auditing that is based on the current practices 
deployed throughout Siemens AG. OHS audits and 
their results will continue to be quantified, providing 
details for the effective implementation of optimization 
measures, lessons learned and continuous improve -
ment recommendations.
Measuring OHS performance
Health and safety performance at Siemens Energy is 
managed via internal processes that define the 
 requirements for the classification, recording and in -
vestigation of accidents. The overall lost time injury 
frequency rate 1 (LTIFR) for employees 2 was 0.27 
(FY 2019: 0.31) at the end of the fiscal year and is 
based on the total number of lost time injuries per 
200,000 hours worked. During the reporting period, 
Siemens Energy regrettably had five (FY 2019: two) 
work-related fatal accidents 3. One fatal accident was 
related to underwater diving and cleaning of dosing 
line of water  intake pipe and involved a contractor. 
One accident was related to fatal injuries from electric 
shock and involved an SGRE employee. Three fatal 
accidents  involved SGRE subcontractors and were 
 related to preparational work, lifting operations and 
falling from a platform during concrete tower assembly. 
Each serious event or fatal accident causes grief for 
families, friends and colleagues, and as a company we 
will investigate, assess and derive measures that will 
prevent such  accidents from happening again.Preventing occupational illness
A key objective at Siemens Energy is that it will not 
expose workers to occupational illness or work-related 
diseases whilst performing work activities and will 
maintain, develop and build upon the Siemens AG OHS 
management systems that are currently implemented 
at Siemens AG to manage, monitor and review poten-
tial exposure risks.
1  Lost time injury frequency rate: Number of lost time injuries  
(LTI) x 200 000/work hours performed. LTIs are accidents that result in 
at least one lost day of work
2 Incl. temporary workers; excl. contractors 
3  Excluding cases beyond Siemens Energy’s influence. E.g. force majeure, 
third party violence or outside of Siemens Energy scope of responsibilityAward for occupational health and safety
As an outstanding achievement in health and safety, the 
Transmission Solutions project team in the UK won the 
 “British Safety Councils – Sword of Honour” in November 
2019 for the ElecLink project, where a converter station in 
Folkestone was constructed. The award recognizes the 
team’s commitment to health and safety excellence and 
continuous improvement, e.g. by examining key factors 
such as organizational structure, operational activities or 
performance monitoring.
60
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Promoting health
Prevention strategies for the sustainable promotion of 
employee health are a key aim of Siemens Energy. 
Siemens AG developed a company-wide program that 
enables health risks to be identified at an early stage, 
promotes health resources and maintains the health 
performance of employees over the long term.
The Healthy @ Siemens program was introduced as a 
quality mark for sustainable health management and 
involves a number of categories which include man -
agement responsibility, culture, planning, implemen-
tation and evaluation. This is supported by a compre-
hensive on-site assessment.
Siemens Energy businesses will derive local health and 
wellbeing programs and activities as a continuation of 
the health and wellbeing programs implemented by 
Siemens AG. We will achieve this by developing local 
health programs and providing training on health top-
ics such as exercise, nutrition, stress, physical wellbe-
ing and work/life balance, and especially in response 
to the rapidly changing work environment due to the 
impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Siemens Energy will increase its focus on relevant 
health risks, covering psychological health, physical 
health and wellbeing, and will establish essential guid -
ance to support local health initiatives and enhance 
the long-term health of our employees.
The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted Siemens Energy 
and its business operations globally. Back in January 
2020, we set up a global task force to monitor the situ-
ation and respond accordingly. Through our immediate 
response to the crisis, we were able to ensure that our 
operations could continue to adapt to different region-
al requirements. The health and safety of our employees 
is always our highest priority in everything we do. As the pandemic has progressed, measures to protect 
the health of our employees have been reviewed and 
adapted continuously. This included: 
• Supplying protective masks for employees worldwide
• Flexible and individual working time solutions or 
leave of absence models for employees to help them 
cope with the challenges in their work and personal 
lives during the pandemic
• Comprehensive protection models for employees 
who cannot work from home, e.g., workers at the 
manufacturing locations or employees in sales or 
service units. 
It was very important to be transparent in our commu-
nications about our activities and their effects by reg-
ularly informing our teams about the situation and 
measures taken. This transformation of the way we 
work together was only possible with healthy, dedicated 
and motivated employees. At Siemens Energy, we want all employees to have a healthy and safe 
working environment – at all times
61
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Societal engagement 
We are committed worldwide to supporting societal 
progress, a clean environment and people in need.
• For our societal engagement, we take a global 
approach with regional activities
• Focus areas: Driving the Energy Transition, 
Access to Education, Sustaining Communities
• Our efforts are underpinned by €5.44 million  
in donations 
Societal engagement has been embedded in our DNA 
since Werner von Siemens founded the company 
in 1847 and will continue to be of relevance for 
Siemens Energy in the future. For us, societal engage-
ment is not only a charitable endeavor; it creates value, 
is a source of opportunity and provides a competitive 
advantage.
We are currently establishing a new societal engage -
ment approach for Siemens Energy that will be rolled 
out globally in the months to come. For this, we have 
analyzed the donations of past years to get an under -
standing of the contributions to communities world -
wide and defined three focus areas on the basis of our 
strategic context, core competencies, the global tar -
gets for sustainable development, global megatrends 
(demographics, urbanization, climate change, global-
ization and digitalization) and stakeholder dialog.
Through our engagement, we contribute to several 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
Our technology-related activities will mainly focus on 
shaping the energy transformation and thus impact 
SDG 7 “Access to Energy”. By providing access to edu-
cation, we impact SDG 4 “Quality Education”, SDG 5 
“Gender Equality” and SDG 10 “Reduced Inequalities”. As our community-related activities focus on serving 
local needs, they can have effects on several SDGs in 
parallel to SDG 11 “Sustainable Cities and Communities”.
Our approach combines a global framework with 
 selected local activities in the countries in which we 
operate. The objective of the new approach is to 
• Enhance relationships with customers and partners
• Boost employee engagement
• Generate awareness of our brand and 
• Support the company’s competitive context
In order to focus our activities and increase our impact, 
we have developed a framework with three focus areas 
that allows for global consolidation but also local au-
tonomy:  
• Driving the Energy Transition – Support clean energy 
research and development  
• Access to Education – Promote STEM (science, tech-
nology, engineering, and mathematics) subjects 
and climate education (especially for underrepre -
sented demographics) 
• Sustaining Communities – Disaster recovery 
 (especially related to electricity supply) 
The approach foresees that 80% of donations will sup-
port three areas related to Siemens Energy’s compet-
itive context, while 10% will be discretionary, support-
ing the causes aligned to customers and partners, and 
10% will go towards activities in the local communities 
where we have operations with a significant employ -
62
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
ment base. The tools to monitor the implementation 
of the approach will be developed with a focus on 
keeping them as lean and easily useable as possible. 
Individuals also contribute to societal engagement; at 
Siemens Energy, we support our employees in taking 
action for social responsibility through our volunteer -
ing program. Corporate volunteering is an efficient 
and personal way to provide a commitment to society 
and to enhance employee satisfaction and retention. 
A specific volunteering framework is currently being 
set up for Siemens Energy.
SGRE has put in place a social commitment strategy 
and created a new department that focusses on the 
company’s social commitment with the aim of reduc-
ing poverty, fighting climate change and promoting 
STEM education in our communities. The approach is 
underpinned by the Social Commitment Policy and 
forms part of a long-term strategy aligned with the 
UN’s SDGs 1 “No Poverty”, 4 “Quality Education” and 
13, 14 and 15 “Climate Change”, “Life Below Water” and 
“Life on Land”. 
Siemens Energy contributes to societal development 
all over the world through a range of projects that play 
well into the newly defined focus areas: 
Driving the Energy Transition − Public energy infra-
structure is one of the most important prerequisites 
for the sustainable development of societies. This is especially true for countries where not all citizens have 
access to a reliable, sustainable and affordable power 
supply. We draw on our core competencies and port-
folio offerings in order to help rural areas get better 
access to basic infrastructure. In the future, we will 
mainly focus on shaping the energy transition by sup-
porting projects on decarbonization, access to energy 
and systemic change.
After a devastating war, the Siemens Smart Clinic in 
Baiji (Iraq) was refurbished and inaugurated in 2019 
and now offers basic medical support for up to 10,000 With the donated equipment, patients in the Smart Clinic  
in Baiji, Iraq, can now receive medical care
Local projects  contribute to societal progress worldwide
“Summer of Dreams” 
in the US
Wind turbines for two 
schools in ArgentinaSTEM festivals in UK
Smart Clinic in IraqDisaster relief in Lebanon
COVID-19 response in Nigeria
63
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
patients per year. Based on a shared value approach 
integrating local communities, governmental author -
ities, NGOs and local employees, Siemens Energy do-
nated power equipment to ensure that long-term and 
seamless operation is guaranteed.
In Argentina, Siemens Energy employees and trainees 
built wind turbines for two schools in the remote com-
munities of Baradero and Saladillo. A constant and 
reliable power supply is key to ensuring the daily 
operation of the school for over 200 students. In 
addition, teachers were trained to hold clean energy 
workshops to transfer knowledge of sustainable energy 
generation and its efficient use.
Access to Education – We work to extend education-
al opportunities to more people and improve research, 
especially in STEM subjects. Siemens Energy leverages 
its competencies to spark interest in STEM subjects, 
reduce skills gaps and match industry requirements, 
creating industry-ready youth.
In cooperation with GIZ, Siemens Energy supported 
the program “Prospects for Modern Youth in Iraq”. The 
program addresses the educational targets and actions 
to be taken in Iraq to motivate and encourage young 
people to enter compelling education programs. This 
offers them future prospects and at the same time 
prepares them for future employment with companies 
like Siemens Energy.The wind turbine delivers clean energy for the school in Baradero
Our lighthouse projects are accompanied by a variety 
of smaller STEM-related activities in the local commu-
nities in which Siemens Energy is active.
Sustaining Communities – Access to basic provisions 
is essential for sustaining communities. 
Our engagement includes immediate relief and reha-
bilitation support in the wake of disasters, such as the 
tragic accident in Beirut, Lebanon. Access to electric 
power is crucial after such a catastrophe. Shortly after 
the incident, Siemens Energy offered to inspect and 
modernize two existing power plants that generate 
30% of the local electricity to ensure a reliable, afford-
able supply of electricity for the people of Beirut and 
help them rebuild their city.  
Various initiatives increase the well-being of commu-
nities by targeting the inclusion of underserved mem -
bers and equal opportunities for all. One example is 
“Summer of Dreams,” an educational summer camp 
program for homeless children in Florida. Another one 
is in Charlotte, North Carolina, where Siemens Energy 
cooperates with local charitable organizations to 
tackle the critical issue of providing affordable housing 
via donations and volunteering activities.
64
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations
Local engagement: Siemens Energy UK
Under Siemens Energy UK’s Social Value Strategy, the site in 
Lincoln engages in a variety of community activities from 
clean-ups to joining the local pride festivities to empowering 
women in science. A major focus is on education with the 
aim of inspiring and engaging the young in the world of 
Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). 
At the science and engineering festivals in the local commu-
nities, a variety of activities take place. One of those was the 
Frequency Festival of Digital Culture, hosted at the Manches -
ter Museum of Science and Industry, where kids were invited 
to experience STEM in action, for example by designing 
rollercoasters. The festivals thus contribute to overcoming 
the significant skills shortages we face. Events like this will 
become even more important in a world that is becoming 
more connected through digitalization.Selected examples of our activities in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic
With the global COVID-19 pandemic affecting societies 
worldwide, Siemens Energy contributed €310,000 to 
support communities in fiscal year 2020 within a 
bigger donation by Siemens AG. 
Also, our countries set up local activities. For example, 
in an effort to support the Nigerian government in its 
battle against COVID-19, Siemens Energy Nigeria 
 donated 640 test kits as well as 10,000 pieces of pro-
tective equipment including face masks and gloves to 
the Lagos State Government and the Nigerian Centre 
for Disease Control.
SGRE also supported communities in response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Relief efforts included the distri-
bution of 150,000 vital pieces of medical equipment 
to local hospitals and 2.3 million food kits for several 
months to 100,000 recipients.
In fiscal year 2020, donations increased from €2.84 to 
€5.44 million due to our COVID-19 engagement, the 
foundation of the Werner-von-Siemens Centre in  Berlin 
and larger projects in South Africa and Iraq.
Donations by region
(in millions of €)Fiscal year
2020 2019
Europe, CIS 1, Africa, Middle East 3.53 0.83
Americas 1.16 1.40
Asia, Australia 0.76 0.61
Total 5.44 2.84
1 Commonwealth of Independent States
65
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020 Responsible operations

68 The company
68 Reporting method
69 Environmental Portfolio reporting principles
73  Task Force on Climate-Related Financial  
Disclosures (TCFD) 
75 UN Global Compact – communication on progress
78 Independent auditor’s limited assurance reportAnnex
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
Annex 
The company 
Siemens Energy AG is incorporated as a stock corpo -
ration (Aktiengesellschaft) under the laws of Germa-
ny, with its registered office in Munich, Germany. The 
company is entered in the commercial register of the 
Munich local court (Amtsgericht) under HRB 252581. 
Siemens Energy AG is the parent company of the 
Siemens Energy Group.
The Siemens Energy business was formerly part of the 
Siemens Group (Siemens) and became an indepen -
dent company by way of a spin-off and subsequent 
listing in September 2020. 
In preparation for the spin-off, Siemens had bundled its 
worldwide energy business into Siemens Energy Global 
GmbH & Co. KG (formerly Siemens Gas and Power 
GmbH & Co. KG), Germany, which included the share-
holding of approximately 67% in Siemens Gamesa Re-
newable Energy, S.A., Zamudio, Spain (carve-out). In 
the course of the spin-off, Siemens Energy AG, former -
ly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Siemens AG, became a 
shareholder in Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG. 
In return, 55% of the shares in Siemens Energy AG 
were transferred to the shareholders of Siemens AG 
with effect from September 25, 2020, while the 
Siemens Group retained 45% of the shares in 
Siemens Energy AG (of which 9.9% were transferred 
to Siemens Pension-Trust e.V.). The shares of 
Siemens Energy AG were admitted to the regulated 
market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and simultane -
ously admitted to the sub-segment of the regulated 
market with additional post-admission obligations 
(Prime Standard) (ISIN DE000ENER6Y0/WKN ENER6Y). 
Trading commenced on September 28, 2020.  
We have organized the company in two reporting 
segments, Gas and Power and SGRE:  
• Gas and Power includes the Divisions Generation, 
Transmission and Industrial Applications with the 
respective service business based on our customer 
groups and product lines. Our activities within the New Energy Business focus on building up our 
business with Power to-X technologies, electrolyzer 
systems and solutions for the production of green 
hydrogen. 
• SGRE includes its wind turbine business and related 
services. SGRE is a leading provider of wind power 
solutions and complements the portfolio through 
which we support our customers worldwide in 
transitioning to a more sustainable energy system.
Reporting method 
Reporting approach
Sustainability is an integral part of our company 
strategy. In our “Sustainability Report 2020” (herein -
after referred to as the “Report”), we publish funda -
mental information about our sustainability activities 
such as strategy, organization, initiatives, programs, 
management systems and goals. As a listed company, 
our reporting segment SGRE has an independent 
sustainability strategy and publishes a separate Con-
solidated Non-Financial Statement. Whilst the strate -
gic direction of both reporting segments is compa-
rable, management approaches and programs may 
differ. We indicate deviations from a common approach 
in the respective chapter.
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the 
GRI Standards – Core Option (see   GRI table ). We 
use the UN Guiding Principles (UN GP) Reporting 
Framework and its narrative guidance as a guide 
when reporting on our human rights activities. All key 
performance indicators of the Environmental Portfolio 
are reported according to the   Environment Portfolio 
Reporting Principles  included in this Annex.
Reporting period and reporting boundaries  
This Report is the first independent sustainability 
report to be published by Siemens Energy. It is based 
on activities carried out during Siemens Energy’s fiscal 
year 2020 (October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020). 
Any exceptions are indicated as such. We plan to 
report annually on our progress. 68
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
In general, our fully consolidated companies are all 
covered by the Report. Possible exceptions regarding 
the pool of data used are indicated. Minority equity 
investments are not included in our reporting. In 
order to ensure comparability, KPIs for the previous 
year are adjusted accordingly, with any exceptions 
duly indicated. 
Data collection
Given Siemens Energy’s size and global spread, data 
gathering requires to utilize a distributed IT and data 
environment. Captured non-financial data may adhere 
to local rules and regulations which may deviate from 
the group’s reporting requirements. In order to ensure 
consistency of group non-financial reporting, input 
data is reconciled and adjusted to comply with the 
group’s reporting requirements. All information pre -
sented in this report that is subject to significant data 
limitations is identified as such. This applies in par -
ticular to specific non-financial figures, including, for 
example, the revenue attributable to the Environmen -
tal Portfolio. As a result, these figures may not be 
comparable with the data published under the same 
or similar designations by other companies. The 
non-financial data published in this Report is collected 
through various internal reporting systems, which, for 
the most part, are different from those applicable to 
the financial information. In particular, they may be 
subject to less extensive internal documentation, data 
generation and auditing requirements, including 
those relating to the IT systems used and the general 
control environment. To ensure data quality and 
maintain information value, we identify and evaluate 
data restrictions in accordance with our internal 
guidelines. Where necessary and taking into account 
the need for consistency, this may include the exclu-
sion of affected data sources.
Due to rounding, numbers presented through- out 
this Report may not add up precisely to the totals 
provided and percentages may not precisely reflect 
the absolute figures.Environmental reporting and collection of 
environmental data
Siemens Energy aligned with an environmental infor -
mation system to analyze reports from sites in all rel-
evant countries where defined threshold values were 
exceeded for parameters such as energy use, resource 
consumption and emissions within environmental 
management. To measure and monitor our environ -
mental impact, absolute values are used, such as 
energy consumption in gigajoules. We report environ -
mental data for continuing operations. Extrapolation 
to 100% was applied to reflect complete consumption. 
We monitor our environmental impact for all office 
and production sites of environmental relevance, 
using environmental data gathered quarterly.
Independent assurance review
We prepare our sustainability report to high quality 
standards. Consequently, we commissioned an inde -
pendent auditor to conduct a limited assurance 
 review of this Report for the reporting period. You can 
find the assurance statement of Ernst & Young GmbH 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft on  page 78.
Environmental Portfolio reporting 
principles
This sustainability report includes Environmental Port -
folio-related figures for the reporting period. Those 
KPIs are in line with the Siemens AG reporting prin-
ciples, which are described below.
Environmental Portfolio Guideline
As there are currently no accepted international stan-
dards addressing the identification and reporting of 
“green products”, we report the revenue from our 
Environmental Portfolio and the cumulative annual 
customer reductions in carbon dioxide emissions gen-
erated by it in accordance with internal regulations 
defined in our Environmental Portfolio Guideline. This 
Guideline sets out criteria and processes for the qual-
ification of elements for the Environmental Portfolio, 
defines roles and responsibilities as well as processes 
to account for annual customer reductions in carbon 69
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
dioxide emissions and refers to financial reporting 
guidelines on revenue recognition. It is based on the 
Reporting Principles set forth in “A Corporate Account -
ing and Reporting Standard – Revised Edition” and 
“GHG Protocol for Project Accounting” issued by the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. These principles 
are relevance, completeness, consistency, transparency, 
accuracy and conservativeness. Revenue generated by 
the Environmental Portfolio is recognized in accor -
dance with revenue recognition policies as described 
in  Note 2 in B.6 of the Annual Report 2020 of the Siemens  
Energy Group .
Scope of reporting
To date, the Environmental Portfolio-related key perfor -
mance indicators are revenue with Environmental Port -
folio elements and reductions in carbon dioxide emis-
sions at our customers generated by elements from the 
Siemens Environmental Portfolio. Carbon dioxide emis -
sion reductions at our customers are calculated by 
comparing the Environmental Portfolio element (e.g., 
a combined cycle power plant and the related carbon 
dioxide emissions per kilowatt hour) with a reference 
solution (e.g., a global average grid factor for power 
production). The annual reduction in carbon dioxide in 
the reporting year is calculated based on technical pa-
rameters (e.g., the installed capacity in gigawatts in 
the reporting year or load hours). For all Environmental 
Portfolio elements sold in a reporting year, the annual 
reductions are added up to calculate the annual carbon 
dioxide emission reductions at our customers at the 
end of that year. Our Environmental Portfolio elements 
are typically long-lasting products (e.g., compressors) 
or infrastructure elements (e.g. power plants) that con -
tribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions 
not only in the reporting year but for many years. 
We therefore also calculate the cumulative annual 
customer reductions in carbon dioxide emissions. The 
cumulative annual emission reductions are calculated 
as customer reductions in carbon dioxide emissions 
generated by Environmental Portfolio elements in -
stalled in the current reporting period (see above) plus 
those elements installed since the beginning of fiscal 
2002 that are still in use at the customer. If elements 
installed in previous reporting periods are no longer in 
use, they are no longer taken into consideration when 
calculating the cumulative annual customer reductions 
in carbon dioxide emissions in the respective reporting 
period. For the Environmental Portfolio elements in -
stalled in a given reporting period, we consider the 
reductions in carbon dioxide emissions for the entire 
reporting period, irrespective of the actual date of 
installation during the year of first-time recognition.Governance – processes and definitions
The qualification of our Environmental Portfolio 
elements as well as the respective reporting is based 
on clearly defined processes and criteria. In principle, 
products, systems, solutions and services of our 
Business may qualify for the Environmental Portfolio. 
The entire portfolio is reviewed on an annual basis to 
ensure the appropriate qualification of Environmental 
Portfolio elements based on the criteria described 
hereafter. Newly integrated elements are shown in 
our reporting from the reporting period in which they 
are included. Elements that no longer fulfill our qual-
ification criteria are excluded from our Environmental 
Portfolio; prior periods are not adjusted. Prior to inclu -
sion in the Environmental Portfolio, potential new 
Environmental Portfolio elements have to undergo a 
multilevel internal evaluation process, which includes 
reviews in the respective Siemens companies as well 
as a review in the Sustainability department. Within 
this process, Siemens verifies the completeness of 
documentation supporting the fulfillment of the qual -
ification criteria. Furthermore, Siemens considers 
whether or not significant “adverse effects” exist. 
“Adverse effects” mean that a potential Environmental 
Portfolio element, despite fulfilling the qualification 
criteria, might cause considerably larger environ -
mental effects elsewhere in the element’s life cycle. If 
material adverse effects are known, the element is 
not included in the Environmental Portfolio. If the 
revenue related to an Environmental Portfolio element 
cannot be accurately separated from our total revenue, 
the respective revenue will not be accounted for or 
reported due to the principle of conservativeness.
Criteria for including elements in the 
Environmental Portfolio
An Environmental Portfolio element can be a product, 
a system, a solution or a service, as defined above. If 
all products, systems, solutions or services of a 
Siemens organizational unit meet one of the selection 
criteria, this unit may be considered an Environmental 
Portfolio element as a whole. Furthermore, a core 
component of a system or solution may qualify as an 
Environmental Portfolio element if the component 
provided by Siemens is key to enabling environmental 
benefits resulting from the system’s or solution’s over -
all application. This means that the environmental 
functionality of the overall system or solution cannot 
be achieved without the component provided by 
Siemens. Examples of core components qualifying as 
elements of the Siemens Environmental Portfolio are 
steam turbines for biomass powerplants. Service 
types are distinguished into “product-related service” 70
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
and “value-add service”. In cases where a Siemens 
product, system or solution qualifies as an Environ -
mental Portfolio element, the revenue, and if applica-
ble, the annual customer reduction in carbon dioxide 
emissions of the “product-related service”, shall gen -
erally be accounted for and reported on in line with 
the related Environmental Portfolio element. In cases 
of “value-add services”, the revenue, and if applicable, 
the annual customer reduction in carbon dioxide 
emissions, shall be accounted for and reported on 
only if the service itself qualifies as an Environmental 
Portfolio element by meeting one of the selection 
criteria as defined below. To qualify for inclusion in 
the Environmental Portfolio, an element must meet 
one of the following selection criteria. Products, 
systems, solutions and services with a planned appli-
cation in military use or nuclear power are not in -
cluded in the Environmental Portfolio.
Energy efficiency
The criterion for energy efficiency is an improvement in 
energy efficiency of 20% or more during the customer 
use phase compared to the applicable baseline, or a 
reduction of at least 100,000 metric tons of carbon 
dioxide equivalents per reporting period in the custom -
er use phase compared to the applicable baseline. If an 
energy efficiency increase can only be reasonably 
 defined as a reduction in dissipation losses, a 20% 
 reduction in dissipation loss would also qualify prod -
ucts for our Environmental Portfolio. An example of 
products and systems meeting the above-mentioned 
energy efficiency criterion are combined cycle power 
plants (they reduce carbon dioxide emissions by at 
least 100,000 metric tons per reporting period).
Renewable energy
This criterion covers technologies in the field of re -
newable energy sources or smart grid applications 
and their respective core components. The scope of 
the renewable energy criterion includes power gener -
ation and heat generation from, for example, wind 
power (onshore and offshore) or biomass. Examples 
of the respective Environmental Portfolio elements 
are wind turbines as well as core components such as 
steam turbines for biomass power plants.
Determining the reference solution – baseline 
methods
Energy efficiency and annual customer reductions in 
carbon dioxide are all assessed by carrying out a com-
parison with a reference solution (baseline). There are 
three different options for the reference solution: 
before-and-after comparison, direct comparison with a reference technology or comparison with an in -
stalled base. The final decision as to which baseline is 
used is taken by the respective company within 
Siemens based on the following options:
Before-and-after comparison
A before-and-after comparison refers to the differ -
ence between an initial situation at the customer and 
the situation after installation of a Siemens product, 
system, solution or service. A before-and- after 
comparison implies the presence of a preexisting 
product, system, solution or service at the customer, 
the characteristics of which are improved or substi -
tuted by employing a Siemens product, system, solu-
tion or service. This comparison may be applied, for 
example, in cases where a Siemens product, system, 
solution or service modernizes a power plant.
Direct comparison with a reference technology
Direct comparison with a reference technology refers 
to the difference between the Siemens product, 
system, solution or service and either an appropriate 
single other technology or a predecessor. Direct com-
parison with a reference technology implies the exis-
tence of an alternative or predecessor product, 
system, solution or service in the market which is 
employed for the same or a similar purpose. This 
comparison may be made, for example, by comparing 
low-loss high-voltage direct current (HVDC) power 
transmission to conventional alternating current power 
transmission.
Comparison with an installed base
Comparison with an installed base refers to the differ -
ence between the Siemens product, system, solution 
or service and an average of several installations em -
ployed for the same or a similar purpose. Comparison 
with an installed base implies the existence of global or 
regional average data on several installed products, 
systems, solutions or services employed for the same 
or a similar purpose. This comparison may be applied, 
for example, to combined cycle power plants (CCPP) by 
drawing a comparison with the average global green-
house gas emissions factor for electricity generation. 
When calculating emission reductions compared to the 
baseline, we consider either direct savings (e.g., by 
power plants) or the indirect effects that occur when 
different products in a system interact and create 
emission reductions. If Siemens delivers core compo-
nents only and not the entire system, the annual cus-
tomer reduction in carbon dioxide emissions will only 
be calculated for these parts. The baselines are re -
viewed annually and, if necessary, adjusted, such as 71
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
when statistical data on the installed base is updated 
because of technical innovations or regulatory changes. 
The calculation of the reduction of carbon dioxide 
emissions is based on a specific comparison for every 
relevant Environmental Portfolio element with a base-
line. For this calculation, we focus on those elements 
that have a material impact on the overall carbon diox-
ide emission reduction.
Emission factors for calculating the annual 
reduction in carbon dioxide emissions
For some emission reduction calculations, the baseline 
for the installed base is determined using known global 
emission factors such as those for power production. 
The baselines used for our calculations are mainly 
based on data from the International Energy Agency 
(IEA) for gross power production and for grid losses, 
data from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC) for fuel-based emission factors, and our 
own assessments of power production efficiency. The 
most relevant emission factors applied in 2020 are:For consistency reasons, we generally apply global 
emission factors for calculating emission reductions 
unless specific conditions of a solution require the 
application of local emission factors. For the calcula-
tion of annual customer reductions in carbon dioxide 
emissions, e.g., for wind turbines, we apply the emis-
sion factor 811 g/kWh of global fossil power produc -
tion as the baseline. Generally, our approach includes 
all greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol. 
However, for power production and electrical applica-
tions, we consider the only relevant greenhouse gas 
to be carbon dioxide. If other greenhouse gases occur 
in technical applications, they are included in our cal-
culations. For some Environmental Portfolio ele -
ments, we do not know the detailed parameters of 
use at our customers. We therefore apply internal and 
external expert estimates for these, following the 
principle of conservativeness.
Emission factors for CO2 abatement calculation
CategoryEmission factor
(g CO2/kWh)Basis for comparison of  
Environmental Portfolio elements
Global power generation all primary energy carries 525 Power generation 
Global power generation fossil energy carries 811 Renewables
Utilization of electricity (including transmission losses) 567 All types of utilization of electricity apart from trains
Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2019 1, own calculations
1 Emission factors were updated to IEA World Energy Outlook 2019 (prior year: IEA World Energy Outlook 2018).
Reporting estimates
To date, there is no applicable international standard 
that applies across companies for qualifying products, 
systems, solutions and services for environmental and 
climate protection, or for compiling and calculating 
the respective revenue and the quantity of reduced 
carbon dioxide emissions attributable to such prod -
ucts, systems, solutions and services. Thus, the inclu -
sion of elements in the Environmental Portfolio is 
based on criteria, methodologies and assumptions 
that other companies and other stakeholders may 
view differently. Factors that may cause differences, 
among others, are: choice of applicable baseline 
methodology, application of global emission factors 
that may be different from local conditions, use pat -
terns at customers that may be different from stan -
dard use patterns used for carbon dioxide emission reduction calculations, assessment of the life span of 
the Environmental Portfolio elements, internal assess -
ments of our own power production efficiency fac -
tors, the share of a core component and expert esti -
mates if no other data is available. Accordingly, 
revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the 
reduction in our customers’ annual carbon dioxide 
emissions may not be comparable with similar infor -
mation reported by other companies. We report the 
annual carbon dioxide emission reduction in the peri-
od of installation of the Environmental Portfolio ele-
ment. The period of installation will be determined by 
milestones or based on estimated construction peri -
ods. This may differ from the timing of revenue recog -
nition. Furthermore, we subject revenue from our 
Environmental Portfolio and the reduction in our cus-
tomers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions to internal 72
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
documentation and review requirements which are 
less sophisticated than those applicable to our finan-
cial information. We may change our policies for 
recognizing revenue from our Environmental Portfolio 
and the reduction in our customers’ annual carbon 
dioxide emissions in the future without prior notice.
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD)
To  transparency around our climate actions, we 
disclose how we address risks and opportunities that 
arise from a changing climate. To do so, we are fol -
lowing the recommendations developed by the G20 
Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate- 
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Climate Change Governance 
Sustainability and climate action play a key role in our 
decisions. Our Sustainability Program, which is fully 
integrated into our company strategy, is led by our 
Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), who is also the CEO 
of our company. Climate change is a regular topic on 
the agenda of Executive Board meetings and covers 
topics such as adapting our business model to offer 
sustainable solutions to our customers and the prog-
ress of our program to become climate neutral in own 
operations by 2030. Climate-related risks, and oppor -
tunities are monitored periodically by the Executive 
Board, as decarbonization is the cornerstone of our 
business strategy. Due to the relevance of the topic, it 
was decided to also include emission targets into the 
Senior Management’s Long Term Incentive scheme. 
The Sustainability department, which is part of the 
strategy function, is responsible for driving sustain -
ability (including climate-related topics) within 
Siemens Energy. Among others, it coordinates the 
Climate Neutral program and works on portfolio topics. 
The implementation of climate actions in the Divi -
sions and Countries is ensured by nominated Sustain-
ability Business Partners.  
Strategic Response to Climate Related Risk and 
Opportunities
Transitioning to a lower-carbon economy may involve 
considerable policy, legal, technology, and market 
challenges. In addition, extreme weather conditions 
due to climate change could affect our business and 
have an impact on Siemens Energy in the medium- 
and long-term. The table on page 74 describes the 
financial impact and the opportunities arising from 
climate change on our business.The respective responsive plans to cope both catego-
ries of risk, physical and transitional, have been 
further translated into opportunities to grow our 
business and contribute to more sustainable energy 
systems for society. For example, the revenues gen-
erated by Siemens Energy’s Environmental Portfolio 
for fiscal year 2020 were €19.3 billion. For more infor -
mation on the Environmental Portfolio, please refer to 
the chapter   Decarbonization .
Strategy Resilience and Climate Scenario 
Analysis
Scenarios analysis allows an organization to develop 
an understanding of how various combinations of 
climate-related risks, both transition and physical 
risks, may affect its businesses, strategies, and finan-
cial performance over time 1.
The following are some of the cases in which 
Siemens Energy applies scenario analysis:
• We use third-party energy scenarios provided by 
IHS, IEA, Bloomberg, etc., for the development of 
mid and long-term market outlooks. The scenarios 
are used to identify different market developments.
• We use IHS Autonomy as the planning scenario for 
long-term market evolution. While for the short term 
(up to 3 years in advance) the market can easily be 
derived from a bottom-up analysis of the pipeline of 
projects in development, for longer-term views we 
have to rely on a top-down approach. Even if the sce-
nario may not end up being the most likely scenario, 
it gives us a rather conservative view that enforces 
reasonable planning that is robust enough against 
potential deviations from the scenario assumed.
• When preparing holistic long-term energy concepts 
for countries, we make use of various scenarios like 
e.g. IHS Autonomy, IHS Rivalry, or IEA SHS and IEA 
SDS. The aim is to better assess the consequences 
and robustness of the current and alternative 
energy plans we may be proposing. That helps us to 
identify the most reasonable plan of action while 
maintaining adequate robustness if the real-world 
development differs from the assumptions made.
Risk Management Approach to Climate Related 
Risk and Opportunities  
The respective managements of our organizational 
units are requested to identify and assess climate-relat-
ed risks and opportunities by implementing risk man -
agement systems tailored to their specific industries 
1  Financial Stability Board (2017). Final Report, Recommendations of the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures73
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
and responsibilities. Assessment of climate physical risk 
in our operations is conducted by the Environmental, 
Health, and Safety Department. In case risks and op -
portunities remain after the execution of existing con-
trol measures at the management level, the net risk is 
reported to our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
process. Please refer to the section   “Report on material 
risks and opportunities” in the Siemens Energy Annual Report . 
To cover the risk exposure in the supply chain, we intro -
duced a risk analysis procedure to systematically 
identify potential risks in the supply chain. Please refer 
to the  chapter   Sustainable supply chain management .Metrics and Targets 
Siemens Energy has set the target of becoming climate 
neutral in our operations by 2030 and reach 100% 
green electricity consumption by 2023. We disclose our 
energy consumption and the related GHG emissions, 
please refer to the chapter   Decarbonization .Climate-related Risks and Opportunities
Risk driver Financial Impact Identified Opportunity
Transitional RiskPolicy and Legal•  CO2 taxes, financing restrictions for greenhouse gas-emitting 
technologies
•  Declining subsidy levels might affect the financial sustainability  
of some of our business segmentsAn incentive to adapt 
current products and 
develop sustainable 
solutions
TechnologyThe pace of technological change may result in the economic life 
cycle of certain of our products, in particular wind turbine models, 
being shorter than anticipatedInvest in R&D activities
Market•  Reduction in customer demand due to a change in consumer 
preferences, especially in the Gas and Power market  
•  Challenges in adapting our business model and product portfolio 
to the disruptive developments in the energy market as a result of 
the trend towards decarbonizationAdaptation of business 
model and product 
portfolio
ReputationIncreasingly public pressure towards the shift from fossil power 
generation towards more sustainable power generation will cause 
the discontinuation or adaptation of certain products earlier than 
expected, resulting in a loss of profitCompliance with best 
climate change mitigation 
practices as well with 
ESG standards
Physical Risk Acute
increased severity  
of extreme  
weather eventsSevere weather, such as fires, hurricanes, high winds and seas, 
blizzards, and extreme temperatures may cause evacuation of 
personnel, curtailment of services and suspension of operations, 
inability to deliver materials to job sites following contract schedules, 
loss of or damage to equipment and facilities, supply chain disruption 
and reduced productivityConstant improvement   
of our EHS Emergency 
Response Management 
System and the Supply 
Chain Response
Chronic  
longer-term shifts 
in climate patternsLonger and warmer seasons or extreme cold could materially affect 
the operations of our customers and limit the attractiveness of our 
productsDevelop new markets and 
business models
 Short Term Risk    Medium term risk    Long term risk74
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
Principle System Measures Achievements
Principle 1
Support of 
human rightsOur Siemens Energy Business Conduct 
Guidelines (BCGs) provide the ethical and 
legal framework within we conduct our 
business activities. They contain basic 
principles and rules for our conduct 
internally and externally, for example on 
human rights or labor standards. The BCGs 
are mandatory for all employees world-
wide. With our Code of Conduct for 
Siemens Energy suppliers and third-party 
intermediaries we aim to ensure that these 
basic rights and principles are also ob-
served in our Sustainable Supply Chain 
Management.
Similarly, SGRE has implemented its 
Business Conduct Guidelines.
Human rights due diligence is mandatory 
in the sales phase for projects that meet 
defined risk criteria. The results are decisive 
for the project’s decision- making process. 
 Anti-corruption and integrity
  Sustainable Supply Chain  
Management
 Human rightsOur Code of Conduct (CoC) for 
Siemens Energy suppliers and third-party 
intermediaries includes:
•  respect for basic rights of employees,
•  strong health and safety culture, 
•  grievance mechanism,
•  environmental protection,
•  zero tolerance on bribery and anti- 
corruption, anti-money laundering, 
anti-terrorism financing, data privacy,
•  avoid the purchase of conflict minerals.
Similarly, SGRE has implemented its Code 
of Conduct for suppliers and third-party 
intermediaries.
We have introduced a risk analysis system to 
systematically identify potential risks includ-
ing human rights issues in our supply chain.
  Sustainable Supply Chain  
Management
 Human rightsIn the year under review, the number of 
supplier sustainability self-assessments added 
up to 1,373. Compared with fiscal year 2019, 
the number increased by almost 25%. We 
conducted 334 supplier quality audits with 
integrated sustainability questions and 60 
external sustainability audits.  
Human rights is a continuous awareness 
topic. Siemens Energy has anchored its 
commitment to respect human rights in our 
Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs).
  Sustainable Supply Chain  
Management
 Human rightsPrinciple 2
Exclusion of 
human rights 
abuses
Principle 3
Assurance of 
freedom
of association
Principle 4
Elimination of 
all forms  
of forced labor
Principle 5
Abolition of 
child laborUN Global Compact – Communication 
on progress
Siemens Energy is a signatory to the United Nations 
Global Compact and subscribes to its ten principles. 
We publish our progress report annually as part of our 
sustainability reporting.75
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
Principle System Measures Achievements
Principle 6
Elimination of
Discrimination
Women
EmpowermentWe do not tolerate discrimination and have 
anchored this in our BCGs. We actively 
foster diversity by creating a working 
environment that is open to all people, 
independent of their ethnic origin, religion, 
world view, nationality, age, disability, 
gender identity and individual gender 
expressions.
 Working at Siemens EnergyOur reporting segment Gas and Power has 
developed a Global Inclusion & Diversity 
dashboard concept to measure progress. As 
of Sep 2020, this dashboard has included 
KPIs covering multivariant diversity such as 
share of women and minorities in manage-
ment and hiring, number of employee 
networks of all dimensions of inclusion and 
the “SE Voices” all employee survey results. 
Catalysta, our company-wide female talent 
program, aims to accelerate the internal 
development of women to take future 
senior leadership positions.
Our global diversity networks promote and 
discuss diversity topics across the Company.   
Gas and Power is an active member of the 
SWE (Society of Women Engineers) Corpo-
rate Partner Council in the US.
SGRE also has an Inclusion & Diversity 
policy in place. 
SGRE established the “Culture of Trust 
program” to ensure and support the develop-
ment of a shared company culture across the 
group. It is based on three pillars: continuous 
learning, empowerment and diversity.
 Working at Siemens EnergyIn the year under review, women accounted 
for 19.1% of the workforce at Siemens Energy. 
The share of women in top leadership functions 
at Gas and Power was 21%. At SGRE, women 
accounted for 12% in management functions. 
In fiscal year 2020 women hired accounted 
for 19.2% of all new hires. 
 Working at Siemens Energy
Principle 7
Precautionary 
approach to 
environmental  
protectionSiemens Energy has an EHS management 
System in place to manage its environmen-
tal performance. All relevant production and 
office sites are obliged to implement an 
environmental management system which 
fulfills the requirements of the internation-
ally recognized ISO 14001 standard. 
SGRE has implemented an Environmental 
Management System, which covers 100% 
of relevant sites.
In both reporting segments, Gas and Power 
and SGRE, environmental management 
standards are applicable on an internation-
al and local basis and are founded upon 
the International Organisation for Stan-
dardization (ISO) 14001 and 50001 
standards.
 Conservation of resources 
 Decarbonization The Siemens AG program “Serve the 
Environment” (StE) is still relevant to 
Siemens Energy throughout FY2020 and 
provides a foundation to on which to meet 
the growing number of environmental 
protection requirements of our customers 
and strengthen our position as a sustain-
able company. The Siemens AG’s “Product 
Eco Excellence” (PrEE) program serves as a 
basis for our future approach and added 
value to our business, our customers and 
the environment with the aim of producing 
products with less environmental impact. 
We report direct greenhouse gas emissions 
(Scope 1) and indirect greenhouse gas 
emissions (Scope 2). We aim to be climate 
neutral in own operations by 2030.
SGRE drives environmental improvements 
at its production sites and projects and has 
defined goals for the conservation of resourc-
es. These include a 10% increase in energy 
efficiency and waste efficiency, as well as a 
10% reduction in waste to landfill and a 
10% reduction of hazardous waste by 2025.
 Product stewardship 
 Conservation of resources 
 Decarbonization In fiscal year 2020 we achieved to reduce our 
scope 1 and 2 emissions by around one third or 
148,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents. The 
total scope 1 and 2 emissions amounted to 
292,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents. Our 
share of green electricity was 78% and we aim 
to achieve 100% by 2023.
Siemens Energy’s total energy consumption 
during the reporting period was 5.8 million 
gigajoules. Compared to fiscal year 2019, this is 
a reduction of 16.6%.
In 2020, we initiated a Carbon Reduction @ 
Suppliers pilot project, cooperating with an 
external service provider to develop an eco-
nomic model that identifies the CO2 footprint 
of all suppliers.
SGRE achieved carbon neutrality back in 2019. 
 Conservation of resources 
 Decarbonization 76
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
Principle System Measures Achievements
Principle 8
Specific  
initiatives to 
promote  
environmental
protectionRaising our employees’ awareness on 
environmental and climate protection is an 
element of both our environmental 
strategy and our social commitment. With 
internal communication measures, we help 
create a greater sense of responsibility for 
ecological issues.
 Product stewardship 
 Conservation of resourcesDiverse countries around the world engage 
in societal engagement initiatives on 
building awareness for environmental 
topics within our global framework on 
Societal Engagement. 
SGRE has created a new department that 
focusses on the company’s social commit-
ment with the aim of reducing poverty, 
fighting climate change and promoting 
STEM education in our communities.
 Conservation of resources
 Societal engagement Local biodiversity initiatives have been 
identified by our employees and are support-
ed by Siemens Energy (e.g. nesting boxes for 
wild bees, insect- friendly meadows, supporting 
bird- nesting, tree planting at sites, roof 
greening measures, creation of nature pools).
 Conservation of resources 
Principle 9
Development 
and diffusion of
environmentally
friendly  
technologiesAs a global energy company, we develop 
and market products, solutions and 
services that enable our customers to 
reduce their CO2 emissions, lower lifecycle 
costs and protect the environment.
 Customers and innovation 
 Decarbonization We continuously review our portfolio with 
regards to newly developed or acquired 
portfolio elements that qualify as Environ-
mental Portfolio elements or exclude 
elements that no longer Fulfill our qualifi-
cations criteria.
 Decarbonization In the year under review, within our Environ-
mental Portfolio the reduction in annual 
greenhouse gas emissions due to new ele-
ments of the Siemens Energy Environmental 
Portfolio installed in the reporting period 
helped our customers and partners throughout 
the world to reduce their CO2 emissions by 
35 million metric tons.
 Decarbonization 
Principle 10
Measures against
corruptionThe Siemens Energy BCGs provide the ethical 
and legal framework within which we 
conduct our business activities. They also 
serve as an expression of our values and lay 
the foundation for more detailed internal 
regulations. The BCGs are binding for all 
employees worldwide. Our Compliance 
System aims to ensure that our worldwide 
business practices comply with these 
guidelines and obey all applicable laws. To 
this end, and to protect against compliance 
risks, our Compliance System is based on the 
three actions “prevent, detect, respond”.
 Anti-corruption and integrity Our compliance priorities are:
•  Foster integrity
•  Manage risk and assurance
•  Effective processes
•  Excellent compliance team
•  Committed to business.
These guide our activities and are supple-
mented by focus areas and activities for 
each fiscal year.
 Anti-corruption and integrity Siemens Energy continuously maintains  
and develops its compliance system. 
Our global compliance training program 
requires all managers and employees in 
positions with a specific risk profile to complete 
compliance training.
The continuous Compliance Risk Assessment 
(CRA) was conducted for Siemens Gas and 
Power and separately for SGRE in the fiscal year 
2020. The risks identified in this process were 
addressed by local and central measures. 
 Anti-corruption and integrity 77
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
Auditor’s declaration relating to independence 
and quality control
We are independent from the Company in accordance 
with the provisions under German commercial law 
and professional requirements, and we have fulfilled 
our other professional responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements. 
Our audit firm applies the national statutory regula -
tions and professional pronouncements for quality 
control, in particular the by-laws regulating the rights 
and duties of Wirtschaftsprüfer and vereidigte Buch -
prüfer in the exercise of their profession [Berufs  satzung 
für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer] as 
well as the IDW Standard on Quality Control 1: Require -
ments for Quality Control in audit firms [IDW Qualitäts-
sicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitäts -
sicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis (IDW QS 1)].
Auditor’s Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance 
conclusion on the report based on the assurance 
engagement we have performed.
We conducted our assurance engagement in accor -
dance with the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance En -
gagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information”, issued by the International 
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). This 
Standard requires that we plan and perform the assur -
ance engagement to obtain limited assurance about 
whether the Sustainability Report of the Company has 
been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance 
with the reporting criteria. In a limited assurance en-
gagement the assurance procedures are less in extent 
than for a reasonable assurance engagement and 
therefore a substantially lower level of assurance is 
obtained. The assurance procedures selected depend 
on the auditor’s professional judgment. 
Within the scope of our assurance engagement, 
which has been conducted between September and 
November 2020, we performed amongst others the 
following assurance and other procedures:
• Inquiries of employees concerning the sustainability 
strategy, sustainability principles and sustainability 
management including the stakeholder dialog of 
Siemens Energy AG,Independent auditor’s limited assurance 
report 
The assurance engagement performed by Ernst & Young 
GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft  relates exclu-
sively to the German PDF-version of the Sustainability 
Report 2020 of Siemens Energy AG. The following text 
is a translation of the original German Independent 
Assurance Report.
To Siemens Energy AG, Munich
(until April 3, 2020 Kyros 52 Aktiengesellschaft)
We have performed a limited assurance engagement 
on the Sustainability Report of Siemens Energy AG for 
the reporting period from October 1, 2019 to Sep -
tember 30, 2020 (hereafter the report). 
Our engagement exclusively relates to the German 
PDF-version of the report. Our engagement did not 
include the information in the Annex to the report, 
interviews presented in the report as well as any 
prospective disclosures and links to other web 
 pages.  The report is published as a PDF-version at  
www.siemens-energy.com/sustainability-report-2020 
Management’s Responsibility
The legal representatives of Siemens Energy AG are 
responsible for the preparation of the report in accor -
dance with the reporting criteria and for the selection 
of the information to be assessed. As reporting crite-
ria, the Company applies the Sustainability Reporting 
Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and, 
for the key performance indicators of the Environ -
mental Portfolio, the reporting principles as outlined 
in the Annex “Environmental Portfolio Reporting Prin-
ciples” and the underlying criteria set forth in “A Corpo -
rate Accounting and Reporting Standard – Revised 
Edition” and “GHG Protocol for Project Accounting” 
issued by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative.
This responsibility includes the selection and applica-
tion of appropriate methods to prepare the report as 
well as making assumptions and estimates related to 
individual sustainability disclosures which are reason-
able in the circumstances. Furthermore, the legal 
representatives are responsible for such internal con-
trols that they have considered necessary to enable 
the preparation of a report that is free from – intended 
or unintended – material misstatement. 78
Siemens Energy   ―  Sustainability Report 2020Annex
• Inquiries of employees from the central Sustainabil -
ity department and other relevant departments 
responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability 
Report in order to assess the sustainability report -
ing system, the data capture and compilation meth -
ods as well as internal controls to the extent rele -
vant for the limited assurance engagement,
• Identification of likely risks of material misstatement 
in the report,
• Inspection of the relevant documentation of the sys-
tems and processes for compiling, aggregating and 
validating sustainability data in the reporting period 
and testing such documentation on a sample basis,
• Analytical measures at Group level and at the level 
of the segments Gas and Power and Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy regarding the quality of 
the reported data,
• Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample 
basis relating to the collection and reporting of the 
sustainability data at Group level, at the level of the 
segments and at selected sites,
• Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample 
basis relating to the collection and reporting of the 
key performance indicators of the Environmental 
Portfolio including the procedures for determining 
the qualification of products, solutions and services 
for the Environmental Portfolio,
• Inquiries of employees from the central Sustainabil -
ity department and other relevant departments on 
material qualitative statements in the report as well 
as the inspection of selected underlying documents,
• Evaluation of the presentation of disclosures in the 
report. 
Assurance Conclusion
Based on our assurance procedures performed and 
assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to 
our attention that causes us to believe that the Sus -
tainability Report of Siemens Energy AG for the period 
from October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020 has not 
been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance 
with the reporting criteria.Intended use of the Assurance Report
We issue this report on the basis of the engagement 
agreed with Siemens Energy AG. The assurance engage -
ment has been performed for the purposes of the Com-
pany and the report is solely intended to inform the 
Company as to the results of the assurance engagement 
and must not be used for purposes other than those 
intended. The report is not intended to provide third 
parties with support in making (financial) decisions. 
Engagement Terms and Liability
The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer 
and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften [German Public 
Auditors and Public Audit Firms]” dated 1 January 
2017 are applicable to this engagement and also gov -
ern our relations with third parties in the context of 
this engagement (www.de.ey.com/general-engage -
ment-terms). In addition, please refer to the liability 
provisions contained there in no. 9 and to the exclu-
sion of liability towards third parties. We assume no 
responsibility, liability or other obligations towards 
third parties unless we have concluded a written 
agreement to the contrary with the respective third 
party or liability cannot effectively be precluded. 
We make express reference to the fact that we do not 
update the assurance report to reflect events or cir -
cumstances arising after it was issued unless required 
to do so by law. It is the sole responsibility of anyone 
taking note of the result of our assurance engage -
ment summarized in this assurance report to decide 
whether and in what way this result is useful or suit-
able for their purposes and to supplement, verify or 
update it by means of their own review procedures. 
Munich, November 27, 2020
Ernst & Young GmbH  
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
Spannagl   Johne  
Wirtschaftsprüfer  Wirtschaftsprüferin 
(German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor)79
Siemens Energy AG 
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6 
81739 Munich
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com  
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com 
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. 
© Siemens Energy, 2020
siemens-energy.com