Integrated controls
for synchronous 
condensers
Omnivise Portfolio
The principal duties of synchronous con-  
denser stations are to generate or absorb 
reactive power and thus control the voltage 
level in the grid, to provide short circuit 
power for voltage stabilization during tran-
sients and to provide synchronous inertia 
which can be multiplied if an additional 
flywheel is attached.
By supplying reactive power to the trans-  
mission line, synchronous condensers con-  
tribute to voltage control. Like all assets 
within power grids, synchronous condensers 
require a reliable and highly redundant 
control system to monitor and automate 
processes; regulate and adjust or maintain 
conditions or system behaviors in asset 
operation; and collect, tag, and archive 
data. This control system not only has to 
enable efficient operation of the synchro-
nous condenser, but it also must set the 
basis for a smooth integration of the synchronous condenser into the overall 
control system of the grid. Unlike other 
components, such as protection devices  
or switches, synchronous condensers are 
rotating machinery, and thus they do not 
follow an on/ off principle but rather must  
be gradually adjusted to operate efficiently. 
With a lifetime of over 20 years, synchro-
nous condensers require a flexible and 
scalable control system which is open and 
can adapt to future options.Synchronous condensers provide 
improved voltage regulation and 
stability by absorbing or gener-  
ating reactive power, as well as 
improved short-circuit strength 
and frequency stability by pro-  
viding synchronous inertia.How Omnivise T3000 
supports grid stabilization
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 2
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers
1 Control modes of synchronous 
condensers of efficient grid support  
Page 4
2 Essential requirements for  
control systems  
Page 4
3 The Omnivise T3000 control system  
Page 5
• Integrated system architecture
• Built-in Substation Automation System 
(SAS) functionalities
• Consistent, end-to-end cybersecurity
• Online patching and update capabilities
• Easy remote access for remote oper-  
ation and maintenance
• Coverage of the entire asset lifecycle
• Full integration of add-on functional-
ities like vibration monitoring
4 Some of our reference projects  
Page 10
5 The future of controls in grid support 
– an outlook  
Page 11
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 3
Control modes of syn-  
chronous condensers of 
efficient grid support
When it comes to grid control and the op-  
eration of a synchronous condenser, its 
control functions are of utmost importance. 
Synchronous condensers must fulfill mul-  
tiple tasks in grid management, and it is 
therefore essential that they are equipped 
with control capabilities for a variety of 
control modes such as:
Voltage Control:  First and 
foremost is maintaining volt-  
age levels within a defined 
range. This critical aspect of 
grid management prevents equipment 
failure and power outages to ensure that 
the system operates efficiently and reliably.
Reactive Power Control:  The 
provision of reactive power  
to the system can reduce the 
amount of reactive power 
needed from the source and improve the 
overall power factor within grids. This makes 
reactive compensation support one way that 
grid operators can improve the stability and 
efficiency of the system, while also reducing 
energy costs and minimizing the risk of 
equipment failure.
Inertia Response:  The large 
amount of kinetic energy 
stored in the synchronous 
condenser provides synchro-
nous inertia which helps to maintain the 
system frequency. This property, inertia, can 
help to absorb transient power imbalances 
to keep large power systems stable and 
reliable in case of sudden changes in supply 
or demand. An additional flywheel increases 
the stored rotating energy and therefore 
even strengthens the inertia response. This 
happens intrinsically, as per the synchro-
nous machine’s physics, without any con-  
troller involvement.
Fault current capacity in-  
crease:  System strength is an 
indication of the system’s in-  
herent robustness to voltage 
disturbances. It is typically measured by 
short circuit level (SCL) which is sometimes 
referred to as fault current. SCL indicates  the amount of generation which can 
provide fast reactive power within the 
timescales of a voltage dip.
Systems with many distributed generators 
have low short circuit levels. To address this 
issue, grid operators take steps to improve 
the short circuit strength of the system and 
install synchronous condensers where 
needed.
Essential requirements 
for control systems
To handle all these tasks in an efficient and 
reliable way, a control system must meet 
multiple requirements:
• Fast and failsafe operation of rotating  
equipment
• Integration of electrical controls including 
excitation system and substation automation
• Remote operation
• Compliance with cybersecurity regulation  
and standards
• Maintenance approach covering the entire 
life cycle of the main equipment
• Remote maintenance and system diagnostics
All these requirements are covered by  
the Omnivise Portfolio. It brings along  
all the technical prerequisites to operate 
synchronous condensers flexibly, safely,  
and reliably.
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 4
The Omnivise T3000 
control system
The Omnivise T3000 control system is at  
the core of the Omnivise family of solutions. 
This integrated control solution offers the 
possibility to simultaneously manage elec-
trical equipment and fast control loops.
The T3000’s system architecture, remote 
access, service concept, and cybersecurity 
features are among the factors that make it 
the perfect fit for synchronous condenser 
operation, now and in the future.
Integrated system 
architecture
For the different technical areas covered  
by the T3000, there are typically numerous 
subsystems in place. The coordination of 
rotating, switchgear, metering, and protec-
tion equipment, which may be divided 
among various manufacturers, is a chal-
lenge. The interfaces frequently are the  
weak points– data synchronization be-  
tween systems is always an issue.
Omnivise T3000 overcomes these chal-
lenges by providing an integrated architec-
ture. It supports various communication 
protocols, like IEC 61850, 60870-104, and 
DNP3. This enables seamless integration 
into the overall grid system.The control system offers one uniform HMI 
for all functions: just a single Workbench for 
engineering, diagnostics, and operation. 
The advantages are obvious: Besides need-  
ing no extra hardware or even separate sys-  
tems, fewer interfaces are required, which  
is beneficial in many ways. First ofall, less 
effort is required to keep data consistent, 
and the risk of intrusion is lowered. Second-  
ly, the system makes it especially easy to 
implement engineering changes.
Omnivise T3000 relies on one database. 
All the data and information used in the 
system always comes from a central, single 
source. This leads to consistent views for 
all users and supports data integrity. As 
Omnivise T3000 serves as the single control 
system integrating all subsystems, there is 
only one system to be maintained. The 
flat system architecture, with a minimal 
number of components and interfaces, en-  
tails less engineering and system mainte-
nance and administration efforts.
Working with a single control system also 
means that only one control system life-
cycle must be considered. The T3000 I&C 
systems have been developed with a long-
term horizon and are accompanied by sup-  
port throughout the asset life cycle. This 
includes upgrades, migrations, spare parts 
concepts, and concepts for the transition to 
new technologies – from the first day of our 
cooperation. Innovations and further devel-
opments are designed so that they can be 
integrated without changing systems en-  
suring long-term stability through a future-
proof system.Omnivise T3000 system in-  
tegration – system conform 
communication levels
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 5
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers
Integrated controls 
for synchronous 
condensers
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 6
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers
Built-in Substation Automation 
System (SAS) functionalities
Substations enable the real time monitoring and control  
of power flows in the grid. Substations are equipped with 
protection devices which enable fast emergency actions to 
protect the power grid from disturbances like short circuits 
and fluctuations in voltage and frequency. So-called Substa-
tion Automation Systems (SAS) are required to operate sub-  
stations safely and reliably.
The Omnivise T3000 SAS includes the Instrumentation  
and Control systems (I/O interfaces to sensors and actua-
tors, measurement devices, relays, controllers, and HMI 
interfaces) and the communication interfaces that facilitate 
monitoring, control, and protection of substations and the 
electrical grid with all necessary cybersecurity countermea-
sures. Omnivise T3000 thus provides complete substation 
automation functionalities and enables easy and intuitive 
operation and engineering.
In one system, Omnivise T3000 integrates functionalities  
of substation automation systems (SAS), all smaller auto-
mation functions, and the handling of interfaces to super -
ordinated SCADA systems, trading departments, or grid 
operators. The Omnivise T3000 system for substation 
automation not only enables the integration of IEC 61850 
protection devices and high voltage switchgears, but also 
facilitates the integration of auxiliary third-party systems, 
fiscal metering, power quality measurement devices, and 
legacy RTUs. This makes configuration and engineering  
in Omnivise T3000 very simple.Consistent, end-to-end 
cybersecurity
Many of Omnivise T3000’s most beneficial characteristics 
boil down to the fact that it is an integrative system. As 
T3000 integrates all subsystem, it is easy to secure. A single 
overarching control system means only one “system under 
consideration” in cybersecurity terms. Because T3000 is an 
end-to-end solution for the entire system, it automatically 
creates end-to-end cybersecurity. Protection and metering 
systems, for example,  
are automatically pro-  
tected against cyber risks 
because they are inte-
grated into Omnivise 
T3000.
The number of different 
national and interna-
tional cybersecurity 
regulations is increasing, 
and these regulations 
tend to become more 
complex and tighter. As 
synchronous condensers 
are classified as “critical 
national infrastructure”, 
all these developments 
affect operators of those 
assets as well. That is 
why we design the entire 
system according to IEC 
62443.
The T3000 design and 
development takes into consideration multiple cybersecu-
rity regulations and standards, like NIS, NERC CIP, and ISO/
IEC 27001, which is supported by BDEW, to name a few. 
When implementing project specific solutions, our cyberse-
curity approach does not only consider standards, but it is 
also tailored to meet our customer’s own company cyber-  
security policies. Cybersecurity is an integral part of the 
Omnivise T3000 life cycle strategy, and cybersecurity is re-  
garded as a process which stretches far beyond the imple-Complete substation automation functionalities for easy and intui-
tive operation and engineering
Omnivise T3000 has been explicitly 
created for critical infrastructure. 
Fail-safe system components, built-  
in redundancy, and the T3000 secu -
rity layer architecture all attest to 
this fact.
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 7
Easy remote access for remote 
operation and maintenance
Remote access significantly simplifies the operation of 
synchronous condensers. In many cases, both the TSO  
and maintenance teams would like to access the system 
remotely.
Omnivise’s remote access concept not only facilitates re-  
mote operation (especially maintenance), it also contrib-
utes significantly to a secure overall solution for the entire 
system. Key to achieving this is the use of a single commu-
nication channel to external systems. Omnivise T3000 
serves as one channel, the single endpoint for maintenance, 
engineering, and operations. With T3000, there is no need 
to juggle multiple channels to remotely access your system. 
Our target is to simplify operations by limiting the number 
of channels required for remote access.
While operations may not be a challenge, the engineering  
of different subsystems can be complex. Typically, each 
subsystem demands individual engineering tools, which 
results in opening multiple remote channels, thus increas-  
ing cybersecurity risks. But T3000 removes this complex-  
ity by providing a single channel for all your maintenance 
needs. All tools needed for the engineering of the different 
subsystems, such as protection devices, are accessible via 
the T3000 security server. This way, you can streamline 
your maintenance process and know that your system is 
secured.
Supported by advanced SCADA functionalities and state-
of-the art communication encryption functionalities, the 
TSO can access the system to determine setpoints for re-  
mote operation. Maintenance teams can get access the 
very same way for diagnostics and update purposes for all 
relevant subsystems.
While the T3000’s remote access capabilities offer many 
advantages, customers may decide that this is undesirable. 
In these cases, we rely on data diodes or other methods to 
limit or even prevent the communication of the systems 
with the outside world.mentation phase. Our cybersecurity services ensure that 
system security is kept along the complete lifecycle of a 
synchronous condenser.
During project implementation or later as services, the 
Omnivise cybersecurity offerings include for example:
• Zoning: T3000 is built in a series of separate layers, 
each one having its own security safeguards, ensuring 
that compromise in one layer does not undermine the 
integrity of the whole solution.
• Hardening: Limiting the functionality of components 
and systems to their actual purpose provides the best 
protection against hackers. Hardening involves, among 
other things, removing unnecessary software, constant 
changes to passwords and cutting out unnecessary 
services.
• Patching: System and security updates and patches  
are vital to keep the cybersecure system secure and 
stable in the long-term.
• Segregation: Critical network elements are separated 
from the internet or other less critical networks to limit 
the group of people who can access critical systems.
Online patching and 
update capabilities
Since control systems are heavily software based, having 
the latest system and security patches installed is essential 
to keep the system up to date. Due to its remote access ca-  
pabilities and redundant system configuration, Omnivise 
T3000 provides online patching capabilities and even online 
upgradeability. Updates or upgrades are possible at any 
time, online, during normal operation with no downtime. 
In other words: With Omnivise T3000, no specific outage is 
required for the synchronous condenser for control system 
maintenance purposes like patching or updates.
Full operation 
during patch and
update process
Patch or 
update completedPatch or update  
availablePatch or update 
requires installation
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 8
Coverage of the entire 
asset lifecycle
The lifespan of more than 20 years of synchronous con-  
densers exceeds the lifecycle of control systems, which  
are typically in place for max 15 years. IT components have 
even shorter lifecycles of about 5 years. Due to its smart 
lifecycle concept, Omnivise T3000 has a lifecycle of more 
than 20 years as well. Coming from the power generation 
business, we are used to such lifecycles and the T3000 
legacy has already proven the longevity of this control 
system.
I&C system services and support are provided along the 
complete asset lifecycle of the main equipment.
We have always emphasized that the timing of a system 
upgrade should remain flexible: There is a long period 
when the maintenance phase for the previous system 
overlaps with the active phase of the latest control system 
version.
Full integration of add-on function- 
alities like vibration monitoring
Because Omnivise T3000 is a Siemens Energy-owned sys-  
tem, everything comes from a single source, and we main-
tain full control over the system lifecycle strategy and 
roadmap.The T3000 system lifecycle strategy provided long-term support for 
the last decadesOmnivise T3000 has been designed with a platform ap-  
proach from the very beginning, making the T3000 control 
system the center piece for many other solutions, ranging 
from digitalization solutions to machinery protection. The 
expandable Omnivise solution integrates multiple solu-
tions, like the VIB3000 vibration and condition monitoring 
system, for example.
There is no doubt that it is a huge advantage to have an 
integrated vibration monitoring and condition monitoring 
system in place. For all rotating machinery such as synchro-
nous condensers, vibration is always a major topic. Most 
solutions available on the market are technically separated 
from the control system: 
They are running on a 
different server with a 
different database and a 
different HMI. Omnivise 
VIB3000 vibration moni-
toring runs on the T3000 
Application Server and  
it is therefore fully inte-
grated into the T3000 
control solution.
The machinery protection 
system Omnivise VIB-3000 
is fully redundant and 
scalable, and is thus 
designed for extremely 
high fault tolerance. 
Safety levels for the 
system are extremely 
high thanks to its three 
fully configurable redun-
dancy modes.
Omnivise VIB3000 can be easily extended by Omnivise 
CM500. This software makes the VIB3000 protection system 
a full-blown condition monitoring system. CM500 main-
tains high availability with real-time condition monitoring 
based on a wide array of tools and methods used for per-  
forming in-depth machinery analysis as well as machinery 
diagnostics.
Not only can additional functionalities be added, but the 
Omnivise T3000 system itself can also be extended to cover 
additional assets. Omnivise Hybrid Control is a possible 
extension of the T3000 core system which brings along 
asset optimizer capabilities to control and manage further 
grid stabilization equipment like capacitor banks, MSCDNs, 
BESSs, or reactors.
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 9
Some of our reference projects
Killingholme, Uniper, UK: Rotating 
grid stabilizer for Great Britain
Uniper’s Killingholme power plant is fired with natural gas. 
The Killingholme plant in Lincolnshire, UK, was commis-
sioned in 1992 and supplies an electrical net output of 600 
MW. Having previously been converted from Combined 
Cycle to Open Cycle operation, the project task was to con-  
vert the former Steam Turbine Generators to operate as 
synchronous condensers using an existing grid connection. 
The steam turbine generator with an additional flywheel  
is used as inertia to help balance grid frequency, without 
generating power. This way, grid stability services can be 
provided to the national grid.
In addition to a variety of technical equipment like trans-
formers, excitation, generator protection flywheel, and 
switchgear and mechanical modifications, the fully redun-
dant Omnivise T3000 control system (including vibration 
monitoring for the synchronous condenser and its imple-
mentation into the existing control room) was a corner -
stone of the overall project solution.
Grain, Uniper, UK: New synchronous 
condensers at a traditional power 
generation site
The Grain power station is a modern natural gas-powered 
1326 MW CCGT, with three units, which produce enough 
electricity to power around a million homes. The power 
station is the newest CCGT in Uniper’s UK portfolio, having 
been commissioned in 2011, replacing Grain-A, an oil-fired station commissioned in the 1970s, which was closed in 
2012 under the EU’s Large Combustion Plant Directive 
(LCPD) legislation.
Uniper was awarded four six-year contracts by National Grid 
ESO in 2020, to provide inertia services and voltage control 
to the grid under phase 1 of its Stability Pathfinder at both 
Killingholme and Grain power station sites. Rotating grid 
stabilization technology now provides stability services to 
maintain the frequency at 50Hz and help the grid meet the 
challenges of the energy transition.
To realize this project, Siemens Energy supplied, installed, 
and commissioned two new custom-designed synchronous 
condenser units on the site of the old oil-fired power station 
on the Isle of Grain in Kent. These units are connected to 
the existing grid connections at site. The new units are 
equipped with state-of-the-art Siemens Energy rotating 
machines, a flywheel, and the Omnivise T3000 control sys-  
tem, which enables efficient remote operation and builds 
the interface between the main equipment and the grid.“I’m delighted that we’ve been 
able to work closely with Siemens 
Energy to create a bespoke solu-
tion that meets the needs of 
National Grid ESO, and which is 
the right fit for our Killingholme 
and Grain facilities.”
Mike Lockett, Uniper UK Country Chairman  
and Group Chief Commercial Officer Power
Killingholme Power Station in Lincolnshire, United Kingdom
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 10
The rising share of renewables will con-  
tinue to put our grids through a stress test, 
and multiple measures must be taken in re-  
sponse, which will mutually support each 
other.  
With the Omnivise T3000 control system 
supplemented by other elements of the 
Omnivise solution family, we can already 
implement hybrid solutions with synchro-
nous condensers (for example, generation 
networks which consist of synchronous 
condensers and battery storage or com-  
bined cycle power plants (CCPP)). Omnivise 
T3000 provides an ideal, integrated solution 
by mastering the optimization between the 
fast control mechanisms that synchronous condensers are relying on and the slow con-  
trols of battery storage. This leads to a perfect 
interaction of synchronous condensers and 
battery storage to optimize grid support. To-  
gether, those systems can enhance short-cir -
cuit current, offer additional frequency sup-  
port and system inertia, weaken undesired 
oscillation, and reduce reactive power con-  
trol. The future of controls in 
grid support – an outlook
We will see more and more hybrid 
solutions for grid stabilization, with 
synchronous condensers at center 
stage.
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 11 © 2024 Siemens Energy Page 11
Published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Gas Services  
4400 Alafaya Trail  
Orlando FL 32826  
USA
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/ or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
All product designations trademarks or products of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 12
Integrated controls for synchronous condensers