Controls for offshore wind Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Controls for offshore wind New horizons: As wind power continues to rapidly grow, driven by the demand for clean energy, ensuring reliable and secure control systems is paramount. Offshore wind controls need to be accessible remotely, reliable, cyber secure, and have an extended lifecycle. Proven controls for the power generation of tomorrow With Omnivise T3000, Siemens Energy offers a comprehensive control solution for your offshore wind projects. From the foundation SCADA system to wind park utilities, substation automation (HVAC - High Voltage Alternating Current) and Utility SCADA, Omnivise T3000 integrates seamlessly across your wind park, including the control of onshore substations. This offers the possibility to provide efficient power balancing, utility control functions, SCADA functionalities, and substation automation. Control the offshore wind energy of tomorrow with Omnivise. Explore Omnivise for offshore Hybridization is key! Download our White paper and learn more about our Omnivise portfolio and how we improve operations for offshore wind. Download now! Whether unsubsidized or subsidized Peace of mind: We're your partner at heart Our Omnivise portfolio ensures that your offshore wind projects are efficient, resilient and ready for tomorrow's energy landscape. Whether for large-scale offshore wind farms or smaller installations, Omnivise provides tailored solutions that minimize operations and maintenance, ensure optimal lifecycle management and streamline cybersecurity efforts. At Siemens Energy, we see a partnership - whether for your unsubsidized or subsidized wind farm - as much more than a simple supplier-customer relationship. It goes far beyond placing and delivering an order. It's a close alliance between both parties. We work together towards a common goal and develop the final solution by sharing ideas and expertise at every stage. Together we are stronger in operating, maintaining and securing your wind park during the entire lifecycle. Integrated controls for offshore wind We design solutions with your offshore wind needs in mind. Siemens Energy's Omnivise T3000 is an integrated control system solution for offshore wind farms that emphasizes ease of access, robustness in marine environments, and cybersecurity protection. Our solutions are designed to manage a range of functions within your wind farm. From monitoring day-to-day operations, to managing utilities across the wind farm foundation, platforms and the wind farm itself, to controlling high-voltage substations both offshore and onshore. Omnivise T3000 is designed to integrate seamlessly with wind farm central control systems, supporting essential tasks such as power balance management, utility system monitoring and substation automation. It can complement your existing wind farm controller or operate as a stand-alone control system. Omnivise T3000 is a step towards more efficient and secure wind farm management. Learn more in our Whitepaper Download Whitepaper Cybersecurity As wind power grows so does their risk of cyber attacks, making strong cybersecurity measures vital to prevent financial losses, power outages, and reputational damage. Wind farms must comply with strict cybersecurity regulations like the NIS Directive, NERC CIP, and KRITIS due to their critical role in national power supplies. A secure-by-design approach, considering cybersecurity from the earliest design stages through ongoing operations, is essential. Standardizing equipment and configurations simplifies monitoring and maintenance, while clear responsibility for cybersecurity at each lifecycle phase ensures integrated, site-wide defenses. With our holistic and secure-by-design approach we enhance you with a better reliability, reduced risks, and ensure compliance with evolving cybersecurity standards, supporting the sustainable growth of wind power as a key component of the clean energy future. Lifecycle management Managing a wind farm's lifecycle means also addressing the unique technical and physical aspects of wind farms, including their remote locations and complex digital systems. Omnivise helps you to ensure reliable performance while addressing potential failures. Our comprehensive asset management approach includes thorough analyses, strategic interventions, and proactive measures to optimize efficiency and longevity. The Omnivise Ecosystem offers substantial benefits throughout the lifecycle of offshore wind projects. By leveraging data insights, remote monitoring, and advanced analytics, we enable proactive maintenance, condition-based monitoring, and informed decision-making. This allows you to enhance operational efficiency, mitigate risks, and reduce costs. Our integrated system facilitates seamless collaboration, streamlines workflows, and promotes transparency, contributing to the sustainability and long-term viability of offshore wind projects. Read our Whitepaper Download Whitepaper Learn more in our Whitepaper Download Whitepaper Hybridization With our Omnivise portfolio, hybrid offshore wind energy becomes a game-changer for reliability and efficiency. We offer advanced solutions such as SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition), Energy Management, Omnivise Hybrid Controller and the seamless integration of all your assets in the overall energy landscape. By integrating energy storage, solar PV, ancillary services, and green hydrogen production, offshore wind hybridization opens new revenue streams and optimizes business cases post-subsidies. This approach enhances operational flexibility, reliability, and energy yield, ensuring grid code compliance and stability. It also enables participation in emerging energy markets and the provision of ancillary services. Overall, hybridization is key for optimizing operations, diversifying revenue, and adapting to market changes, ensuring a sustainable and resilient future for offshore wind energy. Further offshore portfolio elements SCADA Omnivise T3000 SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) enables easy operation of multiple Remote Plants from a Central Control Center over the entire lifecycle of your wind farm. Integrated controls on a single platform for the entire lifecycle of your wind farm For process engineering and auxiliary power, Omnivise T3000 improves the transparency of the installations and thus improves the quality of operator control over the entire lifecycle. Scalable and future-proof system for the entire lifecycle Having a scalable SCADA system helps you to stay prepared for future opportunities and requirements (e.g., direct marketing or integration of hydropower). State-of-the-art Control systems equipped with an IEC 61850 interface are well established on the market and are already state-of-the-art. Cyber-secure today and in the future Omnivise T3000 is officially certified by TÜV SÜD according to IEC 62443, the leading standard for IT security for industrial communication networks. SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) for Offshore Wind Contact us Energy Management System Our Omnivise Energy Management Solution (EMS) is designed to dynamically coordinate your energy assets. It forecasts energy production and predicts achievable price points for potential energy off-takers, such as electricity and ancillary service markets. By leveraging these predictions and real-time data, Omnivise EMS manages energy dispatch, monitors operational limits, and optimizes remuneration schemes. Omnivise EMS uses advanced analytics to accurately forecast energy production from offshore wind and other renewable sources. It assesses potential price points for various energy off-takers, enabling informed decision-making and optimized energy dispatch. This proactive approach aligns your production capabilities with market opportunities. With Omnivise EMS, you can predict demand, forecast production, and determine the best strategy to optimize remuneration while staying within operational limits. This comprehensive energy management approach drives operational excellence, efficiency, and economic viability for your wind projects. Energy Management System for Offshore Wind Discover our Demo Direct energy marketing Direct Energy Marketing for Offshore Wind Contact us Direct Energy Marketing automates the process of providing physical dispatch plans to generating sites and provides greater transparency across an entire generation fleet. Direct Energy Marketing is a connectivity enabler providing: Platform for inter-site dispatch Broker for data from Transmission System Operator (TSO), forecasting, plant systems A way to manage past, present and future data Central monitoring of wind farms with robust, fault tolerant communications to regional control centers Set point interface to wind farm Omnivise T3000 SCADA Ability to work across multiple reserve markets, languages and time zones Way to calculate alarms based on operational performance and financial data Ability to notify operators of upcoming events Low scale-up costs Omnivise Asset Management Omnivise Asset Management is a modern software suite combining deep domain know-how, the latest technologies and methods, and modern software design. Its four modular applications cover all power generation core processes and domains, supporting both local and remote teams. It is built on a single platform, so users can draw on the same data and insights. Seamless workflows between applications enable cross-role collaboration, while supporting broader use cases, such as Remote Operator Rounds & Inspections, Asset Performance Management, Full Plant Monitoring, and Remote Operations up to  Autonomous Plant. Learn more Omnivise Asset Management - Proven by our experts, ready for yours Learn more Discover how Omnivise is revolutionizing offshore wind parks. Read and hear from our latest actions around offshore wind. World Economic Forum | Mature cybersecurity for offshore Podcast | Cybersecurity in the wind sector Omnivise in operation Our Omnivise solutions are empowering offshore customers worldwide to run their wind farms reliably and efficiently. Explore these real-world examples showcasing our impact in action. 5 wind farms with 3.4 GW 1 wind farm with 950 MW 900MW offshore - He Dreiht 5 wind farms with 3.4 GW Direct Energy Marketing with modular design that can scale with the organisation Easily extendable system Works across multiple reserve markets, languages and time zones 1 wind farm with 950 MW All information aggregated to allow best techno-economical dispatching Provides central monitoring of wind farms with robust, fault tolerant communications to regional control centers Set point interface to wind farm SCADA 900MW offshore - He Dreiht “Brain” for 900-megawatt EnBW He Dreiht wind farm in the North Sea Provision of control technology, central IT network, cybersecurity solutions, and long-term service Contributes to carbon neutrality in the power supply Read the article Learn more about our portfolio Omnivise T3000 control system Offshore grid connection Siemens Gamesa Contact Have you become curious? Then contact us! With more than 4,000 successful control system projects worldwide we're a true partner in your success. Don’t hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. With our experts we’re ready for your next project! Send an e-mail Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read Landsvirkjun, Iceland: State-of-the-art controls and electricals for high availability and grid support 3 min read High Performance Solar 2, Portugal: Increased efficiency and reduced costs with control system and electrical infrastructure See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025