Page 1 of 3 UK, Wednesday, 21 October 2020 
Keadby 2 Power Station to contribute  
over £1bn to UK economy
•‘
Powering Progress ’ report from SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy
highlights the socio-economic impacts of the UK’ s newest and most
efficient power station
SSE Th
ermal ’s Keadby 2 Power Station in North Lincolnshire, which is 
currently being constructed by Siemens Energy, will contribute over £1bn to the 
UK economy over its lifetime, according to a new report released today.  
T
he ‘Powering Progress ’ report highlights the socio-economic impacts of 
Keadby 2 at a local, regional and national level, based on analysis from BiGGAR Economics. Once comp leted in 2022, the 893MW
1 Keadby 2 is 
expected to be the cleanest and most efficient gas-fired power station in Europe, helping the UK to move away from older, more carbon intensive generation in the decades ahead.  
T
he new report shows that £51m is expected to be contributed to the local2 
economy during the development and construction phase, with 790 years of employment supported. Over the station’ s operational lifetime
3, it is estimated 
that £13m will be added to the local economy each year, with a total  of 220 jobs 
supported on an annual basis.  
T
aking in the wider regional economy - within Yorkshire, the Humber and the 
East Midlands – the figure rises to £76m, with 1,170 years of employment 
supported during development and construction. Throughout the o perational 
1 Keadby 2 will have a Transmission Entry Capacity of 893MW – the maximum amount of power it will be 
able to put on the system at any one time. The turbine, manufactured by Siemens Energy Ltd., is guaranteed to 
provide a minimum of 830MW power.  
2 Local area is defined as Doncaster, East Riding of Yorkshire, Kingston upon Hull, Lincolnshire, North East 
Lincolnshire, North Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire . 
3 Up to the end of financial year 2046 .Joint Press release  
Siemens Energy Ltd and SSE Thermal  
Contact for journalists  
Siemens Energy  
Sara Crane  
Phone: +44 7921 847640  
E-mail:
sara.crane@siemens.com
SSE Thermal  
Phone: +44 (0)345 0760 530  
E-mail: media@sse.com
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG 
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page 2 of 3 phase, an estimated £17m will be added to the regional economy annually, with 
a total of 290 jobs supported every year.  
At
 a national level, the analysis by BiGGAR Economics shows that a total of 
£175m will be contributed to the UK economy duri ng development and 
construction, with 2,900 years of employment supported. Once operational, the station is expected to add £36m to the national economy each year, with 550 jobs supported across the country on an annual basis. This means that over Keadby 2 ’s lifetime, a total of over £1bn is expected to be added to the UK 
economy.  
I
n addition to the station ’s economic contribution, the Powering Progress report 
also highlights local community engagement activities, including donations of £20,000 to local charities and support for Keadby with Althorpe Primary 
School ’s Greenpower Project. You can view the report in full at 
ssethermal.com/keadby2  and siemens-energy.com/keadby2
 
St
eve Scrimshaw, Vice President of Siemens Energy (UK and Ireland), 
said:  
“From the outset this project was about partnership. Partnering world-leading 
technology with local value add and working with SSE Thermal to deliver a 
project that made a lasting contribution to society.  
“As o
ne of the largest infrastructure projects in the North Lincolnshire region it 
was important to us that people and companies across the region were able to benefit from its construction. Through important sessions such as Meet the Buyer, we have been able to identify key local suppliers, who have provided vital services on site. ” 
St
ephen Wheeler, Managing Director of SSE Thermal, said:  
“W
e’re very proud of the positive contribution Keadby 2 is making, particularly 
in the local area, and we want to ensure the project continues to deliver benefits that endure long into the future. As responsible developers, it ’s important the 
impact of our investment is felt within our neighbouring communities, from creating jobs and supporting the local supply chain, to engagement programmes 
with local organisations.  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG 
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page 3 of 3 Press release 
“As we look to build bac k better i n the years a head, i t’s crucial t hat we’ re 
delivering t he energy an d essential i nfrastructure we need i n a way t hat 
stimulates l ocal economies an d supports high-q uality j obs a cross our industrial 
regions. ” 
Buildi ng on its i nvestment in Keadby 2, SSE Thermal i s now i n the early stages 
of de veloping K eadby 3, w hich cou ld become t he U K’s first g as-fired  power 
station equipped with carbon cap ture and storage t echnology by the m id-2020s. 
The c ompany is pa rt of the Zero Car bon Humber pa rtnersh ip, w hich is a iming 
to deliver carbon capture an d hydrogen infrastructu re to turn the Humber into 
the world’s  first ‘n et-zero cluster’ by 2040. 
This press release is available at https://bit.ly/31rVnp3  
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemen s_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company 
works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the 
transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, 
Siemens Energy covers almost the entire en ergy value chain  – from power generation and 
transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, 
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power 
generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. 
A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes 
Siemens Ener gy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the 
electricity generated worldwide  is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy 
employs 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around 
€29 billion in fiscal year 2019. www.siemens-e nergy.com. 
About SSE Thermal SSE Thermal, par t of the FTSE-l isted SSE plc, is a leading developer, 
owner and operator of electricity generation and energy storage assets. Its portfolio includes five 
of the most flexible and efficient gas-fired power stations across the UK and Ireland. SSE 
Thermal’s vision is to become the leading provider of flexible thermal energy in a net-zero world. 
As part of this ambition, it has a core focus on further decarbonising its energy generation through 
emerging carbon capture and hydrogen solutions. Following its investment at Keadby 2, the 
company is in the early stages of developing Keadby 3, which could become the UK’s first power 
station equipped with carbon capture and storage technology by the mid-2020s. Across the Group, 
SSE employs 12,000 people directly across the UK and Ireland and is proud to be a real Living 
Wage and Fair Tax Mark accred ited company. For more, visit www.ssether mal.com. 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG 
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  