Bridging the gap –  
from perception to reality
How the Global Energy Transition Readiness Index  
reveals the action needed to reach net zeroGlobal Energy Transition Readiness Index 
Energy Week
Knowledge
Partner

2
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexForeword   
by Torsten Henzelmann 
Global Head of Energy and Utilities, Roland Berger
    A key dimension to tackling  
the trilemma is speed in co-
operating on a global level. We see 
where we currently stand on cutting 
emissions and how little time we 
have left to act if we are to stick to 
the target of limiting global warming 
to 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial 
levels. When thinking about 
collaboration efforts and complex 
global solutions, we should consider 
which form of cooperation is the 
fastest and is best suited for future 
technologies. This creates something 
of a paradox: Cooperation that 
involves all partners globally will inevitably be slower than individual 
efforts. Different countries have 
different degrees of industrialization 
and globalization, different 
standards of living and,consequently, 
different interests. Against this 
background, it is hardly surprising 
that different regions view climate 
neutrality differently. Rather than 
coordinated pan-global efforts, a 
more effective approach would likely 
be cooperation between like-minded 
countries. These clusters of 
countries, by working together, can 
set a course that others can then 
follow.»Fore word   
by Christian Bruch
President and CEO, Siemens Energy
   We have less than a decade to 
stop the irreversible effects on 
our planet. An immediate, over -
whelming and coordinated global 
effort to stave off the worst impacts 
of climate change is needed – in all 
regions of the world and throughout 
all sectors. There is no one-size-fits-
all solution. Each country has 
different challenges and target positions, so it needs specific 
answers to drive the energy 
transition. And this is where the 
Global Energy Readiness Index 
comes into play. Based on more 
than 2,000 expert interviews, it 
demonstrates where the energy 
transition currently stands – an 
important compass for the year 
2023.»

3
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexTackling the energy trilemma together
Recent discussions around energy have focused on the 
“energy trilemma” – the need to find the right balance 
between affordability, reliability and sustainability. It will 
only be possible to tackle this three-pronged task through 
joint efforts: the private and public sectors need to align, 
agree and work together to overcome the challenges.
The energy industry is currently undergoing a radical trans­
formation. At Siemens Energy’s recent series of regional 
Energy Weeks, Talks and Conferences – each of which focused on a different region: Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa, 
Latin America, North America and Europe – leaders from 
industry, politics and society worldwide discussed the state 
of the industry and the way forward for the energy transition. 
Together with our knowledge partner consultancy, Roland 
Berger, we surveyed almost 2,000 energy experts about the 
importance of a set of key energy priorities (see Appendix for 
details) and asked about the progress their particular region 
had achieved on the energy transition. We then used this data to calculate the “Energy Transition Readiness Index” for 
each region,  a percentage indicating the region’s perceived 
readiness for the transition to net zero.
Energy experts across the globe appear to be aware of the 
massive challenge ahead. Yet, the overall mood at the various 
conferences was positive. Our conclusion is, therefore, similarly 
optimistic: we can indeed overcome the trilemma – but only 
by acting quickly and in concert, drawing on a mix of readily 
available technologies and future innovations.
#3 Strengthen 
the electrical grid#4 Exploit 
existing
infrastructure#5 Manage 
the supply chain#1 Expand
renewables#2 Improve 
energy efficiency It's time to get real:  
tackling the  
energy transition
4
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexDifferent starting points, 
same destination
During Energy Weeks, Talks and Conferences, participants (experts and decision ­ makers from across the 
energy sector and the five regions) completed a survey related to each session’s focus. In total, nearly 2,000 
session participants completed the survey. 
Comparing the Index for different regions provides some interesting insights. Both North America and 
Europe are perceived as progressing furthest in the energy transition. Of course there is still a long way 
to go. But having these two regions, with higher per capita emissions, shows they are already making 
progress. 
North America managed to keep the level of primary energy consumption constant over the last decade, 
achieving economic growth while maintaining a constant energy supply. However there is room for further 
improvement: In 2021, 20% of power generation in North America was still from coal, compared to just 13% 
from renewables (wind and solar). A number of blind spots exist; the design of emission markets has not 
even begun, and sector coupling remains in the planning stage. Overall progress on many energy priorities 
is slow, and the pace should be stepped up so the region can act as a role model for the rest of the world.“If we’re going to get onto a more stable, sustainable path, we 
need all the constituencies in our society to build a consensus 
and to bring that to the political system.”
Ron Brownstein, CNN Senior Political Analyst
... 20 40 30 100 ... 25 35 040455055606570100... ...System Maturity (%)
Energy Transition Readiness (%)34%33%
25%26%22%
Asia PaciﬁcLatin
AmericaMiddle East
and Africa
North AmericaEurope100%
Goal

5
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexEurope  presents a varied picture in terms of progress on the energy priorities. 
Top of the list is renewable energy generation, where the implementation 
rate is almost 66%. The Iberian Peninsula (Spain & Portugal) is currently 
leading the way, with the share of renewables in their energy mix forecast 
to reach nearly 80% by 2030. By contrast, progress on exiting from 
coal is closely tied up with the specific situation in individual countries.  
The good news is that transition can happen quickly, as we’ve seen in 
countries like the UK. Ten years ago, coal provided 45% of the UK’s electricity; 
now, it’s less than 2%. But what’s also clear is that we need a mix of energy 
solutions. This is especially vital in the near term as the war in Ukraine has 
placed tremendous focus on energy security. With Europe’s largest economy, 
Germany has reverted to using more coal for power generation in recent 
months. Work is needed in other sectors, such as carbon capture and storage, 
sector coupling, reinventing energy business models and power ­to­X 
solutions.  Efforts are underway on many fronts, but progress is inconsistent. 
In the Middle East and Africa , progress is perceived as happening, but the 
region is at a very early stage with regard to the climate targets for 2030. 
Progress is good on renewables, as location conditions are comparably 
profitable, and the fair energy transition and re ­invention of business 
models are relatively advanced. Moreover, the region enjoys the necessary 
access to low ­cost renewable energy to become a producer of sustainable 
green energy/hydrogen. However, this would require significant capital 
investment, which in turn relies on clear policy frameworks being in place. 
Equally critical is increased collaboration along the entire value chain and 
between governments.
In the  Asia Pacific region , the perception of the progress on the energy 
priorities is relatively slow. The most progress is perceived as having been 
made in renewables, with more than 80% of participants saying that renewable expansion is at least in the planning phase. The phase ­out of 
coal is also perceived as well underway, despite large economies, such as 
India, still expanding their coal capacities. Major blind spots relate to power ­
to­X and carbon capture and storage – technologies that would help cut 
emissions from coal ­based power generation.
Latin America has the least perceived progress on energy priorities 
compared to other regions. As elsewhere, the expansion of renewable 
energy is perceived as the most mature area. By contrast, power ­to­X and 
carbon capture and storage show the least progress. This may be because 
of the region’s abundant renewable energy resources (mainly hydro, and 
increasingly wind and solar), with a possible impact on the adoption of the 
technologies aimed at reducing emissions from coal, which are of limited 
applicability in Latin America since coal accounts for just 6% of the region’s 
power generation (2020). Latin America’s ambition should be to achieve 
emissions reductions in the medium­ and long­term while ensuring a 
simultaneous growth of the economy and welfare.
How do the five regions differ? 
The threat of substitution of fossil fuels depends on the continent in 
question. Distributional questions arise in all regions but on very different 
levels. For example, the phasing out of coal depends on whether a region is 
exposed to extract coal. At the same time, regions are differently exposed 
to the effects of climate change and differ in terms of how developed 
they are, how much money is available for investment and what natural 
geographical resources they enjoy.Perhaps a more interesting question is not how the regions differ but 
what they have in common. Across all regions, we see that international 
coordination and trade are essential. The energy transition is changing 
entire societies and not just the energy sector, offering opportunities for 
less developed countries in particular. The current crisis can serve as a 
catalyst for the energy transition. Speeding up renewables is an important 
priority in all regions, but green fuels are also needed as backup or where 
dense energy ­carriers are required.
Huge investments are needed across the five regions to put the world on a 
firm path to net zero. This can only be achieved with clear and stable policies 
that serve as the basis for long­term investment. These policies must foster 
a systemic approach to the energy transition that aims to make progress 
on all energy priorities rather than individual areas. The energy transition 
cannot make the necessary progress by focusing only on a few energy 
priorities. And we see clearly that immediate, concentrated and coordinated 
action is needed. The issue now is not with identifying problems but with 
implementing solutions. “The Middle East can play a key role in addressing 
the new priorities of Europe’s energy transition.”
Pierre Samaties, Partner – Roland Berger“Latin America is blessed with abundant energy  
resources. State-of-the-art transmission grids  
will unleash the region’s full potential, while  
making Latin America a green powerhouse.”
Tim Holt, Member of the Executive Board, Siemens Energy
The Energy Transition Readiness Index
The Energy Transition Readiness Index is calculated based on survey 
results of the participants. Participants were asked to give their 
expert opinion on the progress made for each of 11 energy priorities 
(see Appendix). The Index aggregates their answers by combining 
progress on each priority (“readiness”) with an assessment of 
its importance (“system maturity,” as measured by the average 
importance of all priorities, with a higher average pointing to a more 
systemic approach to energy transition). The Index describes the 
perceived readiness on a scale of 0 to 100% of the energy transition 
towards net zero in each of the regions.
6
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexMany regions show a gap between perception and 
reality when it comes to assessing what has been 
achieved thus far on the road to decarbonization, and 
what can be done in the future.
In most geographies, the participants believe that their 
region’s current emission levels are lower than in 2005. 
In fact, emissions are up in the Asia Pacific region, the 
Middle East and Africa, and Latin America – regions 
that are home to the majority of the world’s developing 
economies. Here, a clear discord exists between 
perceptions and reality. This is especially true in the 
Asia Pacific region, where emissions are twice as high 
as energy experts believe.
In North America and Europe, perceptions are closer to 
reality. Emissions have to some extent been brought 
under control, and the regions are executing climate 
protection measures. As a result, emission levels have 
fallen since 2005 (the year most countries determined 
their emission targets) – by 24% in Europe and 18% in 
North America.Do perceptions meet reality?
Asia Pacific
­39%­29%+50%*
­37%­17%+5%*
­39%­23%+50%*
­49%­23%­24%*
­46%­22%­18%*Latin America Middle East & Africa Europe North America
Perceived  development 
since 2005 
Actual  development 
Ambition for 2030
*Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy July 2021
What is the level of CO₂ reduction in your country today and what will it be in 2030 compared to 2005?
6
7
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexEmissions: the reality in each region
North America  contributes disproportionately to global greenhouse gas 
emissions, responsible for around 15%. Nevertheless, perceptions of progress 
only slightly exceed reality: The region has cut emissions by 18% – a remarkable 
achievement compared to other global regions. This improvement is mainly 
due to energy ­efficiency measures, in particular the switch from coal to gas in 
the electricity sector combined with increased use of renewables. Regarding 
the future outlook, conference participants are over ­optimistic, however, 
expecting reductions to proceed at as much as twice their previous rates. 
This would require emissions falling not just in the energy sector but also in 
industry and transportation, both of which are heavy users of fossil fuels. 
Europe  is active in decarbonization, with 15 nations having passed net 
zero legislation and the European Union setting a Net Zero Target by 2050. 
Conference participants estimated that their region had, on average, 
a reduction of 22% since 2005, very close to the actual figure of 24%. By 
switching to renewable energy, the energy sector has seen the biggest fall in greenhouse gas emissions, followed by transportation and industry. In terms 
of the outlook for 2030, energy experts are very optimistic, expecting, on 
average, an emission level of 49% below the 2005 level – more than double 
what was achieved in the previous period. 
The Middle East and Africa is a fast ­growing region that suffers 
disproportionately from the consequences of climate change, as witnessed 
by recent unprecedented weather events. Conference participants, on 
average, estimated that the region’s emissions had fallen by 23% between 
2005 and today, with only around one ­third correctly identifying that 
emissions have not fallen; they grew by about 50% between 2005 and 
2021. In the Middle East, this increase was driven by heavy reliance on 
oil and gas, while the drivers in Africa included population growth, 
underdeveloped infrastructure and limited options for financing solutions.
Greenhouse gas emissions represent a major problem in the Asia Pacific 
regio n. In 2020, the region was responsible for around one ­fifth of the 
world’s CO2 emissions. Total emissions are on the rise: In some cases, 
they grew by as much as 50% between 2005 and 2020. One reason is 
the enormous population and economic growth, which is a fundamental 
problem and cancels out everything achieved in terms of positive success 
in CO2 reduction. Participants in the Energy Weeks, Talks and Conferences 
expected carbon emissions to fall by 39% by 2030 compared to their 2005 
level. This is highly unlikely given historical progress, but the target remains 
important in restricting climate change to 1.5°C and achieving climate 
neutrality by 2050. Latin America is a minor contributor to climate change, accounting for 
just five percent of global CO2 emissions in 2020, although the region’s 
emissions grew by around 20% between 2005 and 2019. Conference 
participants estimated that the region’s emissions fell by 17% on average 
between 2005 and today, with just four in ten correctly indicating that no 
reduction in emissions had been achieved. Participants also expect emission 
levels to fall by 37% by 2030 compared to their 2005 level. Turning emissions 
in their track and achieving reductions in the medium ­ and long ­term will be 
particularly challenging while ensuring simultaneous economic and welfare 
growth.“We need to speed up, but I think the other side of 
the same acceleration point is the need to simplify 
some processes in the renewable energy business 
in a lot of countries.”
Jens Müller-Belau, Managing Director  
& General Manager, Shell“We have experience and  knowledge. We just  
need to stop talking, we need to get moving.  
Of course, we need to improve our technology  
and implement big projects.”
Erling Ronglan, CEO, Ocean-Power AS
8
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexCO2 emissions are a major contributor to climate change, and reducing them is a crucial 
goal of global efforts. Several factors affect CO2 emissions, including economic growth, 
population expansion, changes in the energy mix, new consumption patterns and the 
adoption of technologies and policies aimed at reducing emissions.
Decarbonization is successfully underway but still not moving quickly enough in regions 
where emission levels have fallen since 2005, thanks to the deployment of renewable 
energy and energy efficiency measures. Advances in technology have helped speed up 
the decarbonization process. But despite similar efforts in developing regions, strong 
economic growth has led to a net increase in emissions, resulting in discord between perceptions and reality. The key going forward will be to meet emission reduction 
targets while ensuring simultaneous growth of the economy and welfare.
The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions during the pandemic was a temporary 
downtick in the upward trajectory. Only radical climate action can redirect us from our 
current path at a global level. To limit global warming to 1.5°C, the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) believes that global carbon emissions must fall to zero. 
Action must be taken – urgently, systemically and cooperatively. There is no time to 
hesitate.Radical climate action is needed now
Pathways to limit global warming –
Energy ­related CO2 emissions [Gt CO2]
2000 2010 2005 2020 2015 2060 2040 2100 208040  
35 
30 
25 
20 
     CO pathways to limit global warming according to Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), showing remaining carbon budget with a 50% likelihood to limit global warming to 1.5°C, 1.7°C and 2.0°C 2.0°C / 1230 Gt CO
21.7°C / 730 Gt CO
21.5°C / 380 Gt CO
2 Only radical climate action can 
redirect us from ’the highway to 
climate hell’: At current speed  
we will reach global warming of 
1.5°C in 9 yearsDietmar Siersdorfer, Managing  Director 
Middle East, Siemens Energy“Climate change is already 
extremely tangible in our 
region and with every second 
we wait, we lose valuable time 
to make a change.”Sir David King, Chair at Center for Climate 
Repair, Cambridge“If we do not begin now, more 
substantial, more disruptive, 
and more expensive change will 
be needed later on.”
Source: BP, UNFCC, Roland Berger
9
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexThe need for urgent action is clear, as is the necessity of a systemic 
approach and strategic partnerships between actors. But what form 
should this action take in the near-, medium- and longer-term, and how 
can innovation speed us along the path to net zero?
In the near term, natural gas can act as a bridge to net zero.  Participants 
in the Energy Weeks, Talks and Conferences, especially in North America, 
thoroughly explored the role natural gas can play in tackling the trilemma. 
They were clear that while clean hydrogen is showing early promise as a fuel 
of the future, developing the hydrogen economy is likely to take decades. In the interim, fossil fuels are projected to meet more than 50% of global energy 
demand through 2050.
As the cleanest fossil fuel, natural gas is expected to play a particularly critical 
role in balancing the energy equation and forms a perfect complement to 
clean hydrogen. Just replacing other fossil fuels with natural gas would 
reduce global emissions significantly. Burning natural gas produces 42% 
fewer CO2 emissions than burning coal and 27% less than burning distillate 
fuel oil for an equivalent amount of energy. But despite that fact, oil and 
coal continued to represent the largest share of primary energy sources in Joining forces –  
partnerships and innovation
2021 – approximately 31% for oil and 27% for coal, compared to 25% for 
natural gas. Coal accounted for more than 40% of the overall growth in global 
CO2 emissions in 2021, and coal emissions now stand at an all ­time high of 
15.3 Gt, surpassing their previous peak (in 2014) by almost 200 Mt.
Much can be done to make natural gas a more viable bridge fuel to the 
energy trilemma. This means driving innovation on multiple fronts to 
reduce natural gas emissions further while pushing utilization. Recognizing 
that the energy transition cannot be achieved in silos, Siemens Energy, for 
example, is extending its capabilities through strategic partnerships. 
Gas power plant achieves GUINNESS WORLD RECORDS™ title
The new Siemens Energy and Duke Energy gas power plant in North America is not only pushing to new 
heights for efficiency, but supplying world record levels of power, capable of generating enough energy to 
power more than 300,000 homes. 
The power output of the unit is complemented by its agility. When renewables such as solar or wind fluctuate, 
power from the HL ­class turbine can quickly be added to the grid to meet market demands and help  stabilize the 
power supply. Thus, the gas turbine supports the increase in renewables that Duke Energy is placing on its system 
to reach their goal of achieving net­zero carbon from electricity generation by 2050.
Karim Amin, Member of the Executive  Board, Siemens Energy“Green hydrogen can be used as a sustainable fuel 
 re placing natural gas. We’re able to co-fire up to 75% 
 hydrogen and are planning for 100% by 2030. The 
 ultimate switch to hydrogen should result in carbon-  
free energy generation by 2050 at the latest.”
10
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexAnother topic explored at the Energy Weeks, Talks and Conferences 
was the blending of natural gas and green hydrogen as a medium-
term solution.  This is important as the power sector currently accounts 
for more than 40% of global emissions, and blending even small amounts 
of the two gases could significantly impact power emissions. To achieve 
a 50% reduction in CO2 emissions by mass requires approximately 80% 
hydrogen fuel content by volume. Operating large gas turbines with such 
a high hydrogen content is not economically viable today, but these levels 
are within reach for smaller gas turbines. Adding just 10% by volume of 
hydrogen would reduce CO2 emissions by 2.7%, resulting in a reduction 
of 1.26 million metric tons of CO2 for a 600 MW combined cycle power 
plant that runs for 6,000 hours a year at an average 60% efficiency1 – the “Transitioning to hydrogen requires huge investment to develop technology, build 
 projects and establish marketplaces that collectively contribute to a cleaner energy future. 
This coordinated effort by all stakeholders must be supported by policymakers to  
achieve success.”
Nabil Nuaim, Chief Digital Officer Saudi Aramco
While the specialized gas turbines that accommodate natural gas ­
hydrogen blends already exist, the technology continues to evolve. Energy 
solution providers are collaborating closely with stakeholders across the 
energy ecosystem to drive innovations that facilitate natural gas ­hydrogen 
blending.
Concerning the longer term, green hydrogen continues to garner 
attention.  The journey to a green hydrogen economy is likely to be 
lengthy, but we must start now or risk failing to reach our destination. 
Getting beyond the obstacles will require innovation, combined with close 
collaboration between stakeholders.equivalent of removing more than 270,000 gasoline ­powered vehicles 
from the road for one year. 
Natural gas and hydrogen also complement one another when it comes 
to pipeline infrastructure. While most pipelines today are designed to 
transport fossil fuels, natural gas pipelines can be repurposed to carry 
hydrogen blends or even exclusively hydrogen when they are no longer 
used for gas. Repurposing is much more cost ­effective than building new 
pipelines. Moreover, building new pipelines to make natural gas more 
available has the added benefit of accelerating the hydrogen economy. 
1 DNV Energy Transition Outlook (2022), p. 4
Modeling net zero
The Zero Emissions Hydrogen Turbine Cen ter in Finspång, Sweden is a demonstration plant and an R&D and 
turbine­testing facility. It was set up to showcase a flexible, sustainable energy system connecting gas turbines 
with hydrogen, renewable energy and energy storage. This provides valuable insights into how we can speed up 
our journey into a decarbonized energy future. Excess energy from gas turbine tests and electricity from solar 
panels produces hydrogen in an electrolyzer. The energy is stored as compressed hydrogen and in batteries. This 
way, a closed­loop plant is created, producing its own hydrogen for continued R&D to optimize the use of hydro­
gen in gas turbines.

11
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexThe linking of energy producers and consumers to replace fossil fuels with 
renewables is characteristic of the unique partnerships accelerating the 
hydrogen economy. In the field of mobility, for example, green hydrogen is 
paired with carbon ­capture technology to produce electro ­fuels (e ­fuels), 
which enable net ­neutral transportation. Battery ­electric systems work 
well over shorter distances, for example, in personal automobiles, while 
aviation, long ­haul shipping and long ­distance trucking have different 
parameters, such as space and weight constraints. E ­fuels offer a viable 
alternative to decarbonizing heavy transportation, which collectively 
accounts for eight percent of global emissions.“The Haru Oni project aims to demonstrate that eFuels can be brought to market in large 
quantities and at competitive prices. It lays the foundation for bringing green energy to 
areas that are still heavily dependent on fossil fuels. This is key to achieving the climate 
goals of the transportation sector. The knowledge gained from this project will also help 
develop climate-friendly solutions for many other applications.”
Anne-Laure de Chammard, Member of the Executive Board, Siemens Energy
Haru Oni: Base camp of the future
The Haru Oni project from the company HIF (Highly Innovative Fuels), near the city of Punta Arenas in southern 
Chile, combines wind power, water and CO2 to make eMethanol and, ultimately, electricity ­based carbon­
neutral gasoline. While working with HIF Global, Porsche and other international partners, Siemens Energy 
designed and integrated this project to produce carbon­neutral fuel at an industrial scale. The system is 
expected to produce 130,000 liters of eFuel per year by 2023. Haru Oni is doing pioneering work here and may 
serve as a role model for many other regions around the world.
It is also possible to harness sector integration to decarbonize hard ­to­
abate industries. However, this is only associated with high investments. 
For example, substituting green hydrogen for coke or coal in high ­heat 
processes reduces the emissions related to steelmaking. Likewise, using 
green hydrogen to produce e ­ammonia, an input in fertilizer production, 
can facilitate the decarbonization of food production.
With sector integration, geography no longer poses a barrier to renewable 
energy. Wind, solar, hydro and thermal energy can be harnessed virtually 
anywhere – including atmospherically advantageous but remote locations – 
to produce emissions ­free fuel or feedstock. This means that comparatively 
isolated regions endowed with renewable resources can become active participants in the hydrogen economy. Strategic partnerships play a vital 
role in developing and implementing new technology. The same is true for 
new business models. What is now needed is lasting momentum to drive 
developments – the type of momentum that creates motivation.
We need to drive more collaborations, particularly with companies in 
the developing world. Wealthy countries have a responsibility to help less 
developed regions – and even areas rich in fossil fuels – make the energy 
transition. The prerequisite for this is that we create a sense of global 
responsibility. The lack of this sense of global responsibility was clear, not least 
at the 27th World Climate Change Conference (COP27) in Sharm El ­Sheikh, 
Egypt, where individual interests and priorities once again took center stage. 
12
Global Energy Transition Readiness IndexIt’s time to get real:  
tackling the energy transition
There is no alternative to the energy transition and no reasons 
or excuses to wait for action. All technologies needed are 
available, and COP27 made it clear that global warming will 
increase without significant changes. The clock is ticking. It’s 
time to get real – we must join forces and make this a global 
endeavor. We can do this, but we can’t do this alone. 
At the 27th World Climate Change Conference (COP27) in 
Sharm  El-Sheikh, Egypt, delegates committed to basic climate 
protection targets and the financing critically needed to achieve 
those targets. They reaffirmed the goals of the Paris Agreement 
to limit global warming to 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial 
levels. But – significantly – they failed to agree on any concrete, 
binding actions.
COP27 demonstrates how challenging it can be to achieve unity. 
It also shows, once again, how vital it is that resolutions are not 
simply made on paper but also translated into action. Goals can 
be as ambitious as they like, but if they are not achieved, they 
are worth very little.
However, we can’t wait for COP28; we must act now. Leaders 
of governments, businesses and society around the globe must 
take immediate steps to tackle the energy trilemma. The Global 
Energy Transition Readiness Index highlights the fact that we 
need to place emphasis on joint implementation and work 
shoulder-to-shoulder to ensure progress in the following five 
areas:#1 Expand renewables
The share of renewables in the energy mix needs to expand massively around 
the globe. It must at least triple in the United States by 2050 compared to 
2020, increase by a factor of three to four in Europe and four to ten in the 
Asia­Pacific region. That will only happen if countries worldwide create the 
necessary framework conditions and effectively remove regulatory hurdles. 
Access to massive amounts of materials will also be crucial.
#2 Improve energy efficiency
As countries grow economically and their populations expand, the energy 
demand also increases. Often, that increase can outweigh any achievements 
made in cutting emissions. With this in mind, the primary objective around 
the globe should be to conserve as much energy as possible. Part of this 
effort should be increasing the electrification of industrial processes and 
transportation – two areas where innovation can play a vital role.
#3 Strengthen the electrical grid
Increasing the share of renewables in the energy mix and stepping up 
electrification necessitates more robust grids. In tandem, those grids can 
be expanded beyond national borders, connecting supply and demand 
across regions or even continents. The challenges in developing economies, 
particularly, are significant, with many regions suffering from frequent power 
outages and grid instability. In Africa, for example, nearly one­quarter of 
households that theoretically have access to electricity can access it only half 
the time, occasionally or never.#4 Exploit existing infrastructure
To bridge the gap, it will be necessary to make use of existing infrastructure 
built around conventional technologies. The ultimate aim is to transition to 
new technologies and new sources of energy. But in the meantime, current 
infrastructure should be used to ensure a balance between the security of 
supply and sustainability.
#5 Manage the supply chain
To achieve a successful energy transition, regions need access to large 
amounts of materials, including minerals. This, in turn, requires careful 
management of the supply chain. For example, the average electric vehicle 
needs six times more mineral inputs than a conventional vehicle. An onshore 
wind plant needs nine times more minerals than its gas­fired equivalent. As 
the share of renewables has increased, so has the average amount of the 
minerals required to increase power generation capacity by one unit – by as 
much as 50% over the last dozen years.
13
Global Energy Transition Readiness Index Appendix 
Energy priorities in detail
The speed of the expansion of renewable energy is 
strongly linked to the pace of decarbonization. 
However, technological, societal and bureaucratic 
barriers partly impede progress. Lifting these barriers 
is key to speeding up the roll­out of renewable energy 
solutions.Accelerate renewables
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is a technological 
solution for capturing emissions and storing carbon in 
ways that lessen its climate impact. Decarbonization 
strategies must define the role of CCS technologies in 
the transition towards climate neutrality.Drive carbon capture and storage
The transformation of power to hydrogen and 
other power ­to­X fuels enable the storage of 
otherwise curtailed renewable energy. Additionally, 
power ­to­X fuels can be used in hard­to­abate sectors 
such as aviation and shipping or high­temperature in ­
dustrial processes.Power-to-X solutions
Industrial production can generate significant carbon 
emissions. These must be reduced across Scopes 1, 2 
and 3 to move towards a carbon­neutral industry and 
society. The roll­out of new production processes and 
energy ­efficiency measures must define a pathway to 
carbon neutrality.Decarbonize industry  
(Scope 1, 2, 3) The intermittency of renewables necessitates both 
short­term and long­term energy storage solutions. 
Technological and economical solutions must be 
devised to ensure that 100% renewable energy 
delivers a highly secure supply.Implement energy storage solutionsA greater share of intermittent renewable energies 
makes it more challenging for power grids to 
maintain a secure power supply. The safe and reliable 
set up, maintenance and operation of the future 
energy grid requires new digital solutions.Digitize the energy grid
Social acceptance is an essential component of the 
energy transition. A fair energy transition includes 
affordable energy supply, decent working conditions, 
diversity and inclusion. However, social distortions 
must be avoided as well as energy poverty and 
resistance to renewable energy. Fair energy transition All energy end­user sectors must be decarbonized to 
create a truly climate­neutral society. With an 
increased share of renewable power generation, the 
heating and mobility sectors can be decarbonized via 
the electrification of end­user appliances.Sector coupling to decarbonize 
end-user sectors
An overarching regulatory framework must ensure 
the cost­efficient reduction of carbon emissions 
wherever possible. Implementation of emission 
markets and / or carbon pricing mechanisms are 
crucial to align incentives across continents, 
countries, and sectors.Design emission marketsDecarbonization requires a step­by ­step phase­out of 
power and heat generation from coal. Strategies must 
manage this while simultaneously ensuring a secure 
power supply and heat. In addition, these strategies 
must clearly define coal’s role in the transition
to carbon neutrality.Drive exit strategies for coal
Energy business models are a key enabler in fostering 
investment in decarbonization technology, for 
example, via contracting solutions. Solutions like 
power purchase agreements and long­term trading 
can secure payment streams over the 
investment period, which makes investments 
bankable and suitable for low ­interest financing.Re-invent energy business models
Published by 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
For more information, please visit our websites:
www.siemens­energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Siemens-energy.com
twitter.com/Siemens_Energy
linkedin.com/company/siemens-energy
Get the global report online: