White paper I Pretact EcoSafeT™
Unrestricted © 2020 Siemens Energy Transmission Page 1
The world’s first substation con-
cept Pretact EcoSafeT™…
… focuses on an explosion- and fire safe substation. It sets 
new standards in environment, health and safety to achieve 
a reliable fire safe solution for the entire substation and all 
its products.
The Pretact EcoSafeT™ substation concept is introducing 
three new performance levels that include: 
(1) Essential  – a rupture and explosion safe tank design
(2) Extended – Essential  (1) combined with alternative
insulation and switching technologies 
(3) Supreme – Extended  (2) combined with special 
certification for highest duty and availability
Can you imagine a world without electricity?
There would be no modern life possible without communi-
cation, transportation, trading, cooking etc. 
imagine living in an urban area in a city skyscraper without 
having access to elevators, heating, water, or electricity.
We still have a rising demand for energy which provokes the 
electrical systems to operate closer to the design limits.
This demand in conjunction with an aging infrastructure and 
changing patterns of natural phenomena creates a 
heightened risk to the environment.Therefore, a safe, sustainable and reliable energy supply is 
an essential base for our future.
Figure 1 - Applications of Pretact EcoSafeT™ products within the
electrical power system
Why innovate a safer, sustainable 
and more reliable solution?
To have an explosion and fire safe solution for the whole 
substation, it is important that this applies to all individual 
products. Any major failure, which may involve an explosion 
of a high-voltage product, presents a high risk to the safety 
of people. In addition, drastic failures, like explosions lead 
to long shut down times hurting the operational
performance of the grid affecting all customers particularly 
those, who depend on an uninterrupted energy supply.
And finally, it might hurt the environment through the
release of CO 2, mineral oil or SF 6.
Siemens-energy.com/transmission-showroomPretact EcoSafeT ™ 
substation concept

White paper I Pretact EcoSafeT™
Unrestricted © 2020 Siemens Energy Transmission Page 2Failures and explosions which result in a fire, make the
impact on safety, grid performance and on the environment
significantly worse.
Leading the market with innovative Energy Transmission and
Distribution products, systems and solutions, we present the
end to end concept of a fire and explosion safe substation
including our family of explosion proof and fire safe
products – the Pretact EcoSafeT™ concept.
Our Pretact EcoSafeT™ enhanced products, like composite
insulators have the same reliability as our existing Siemens
Energy transmission and distribution portfolio, but on top of
that we offer:
-significantly enhanced safety
-improved grid availability and performance
-a drive to decarbonization (by avoiding e.g. the use of
mineral oil or SF 6)
-avoidance of potential environmental contamination
And finally, all EcoSafeT™ products will be delivered as
Sensproducts™, like Sensformer® and Sensgear®, that
allow for connectivity and digital twin technology and are
future ready.
Which solutions are available?
Essential  – a rupture and explosion safe tank
design
This level ensures, that nobody will be injured by a rupture
or explosion and there will be no release of mineral oil or SF 6
for the defined worst-case scenarios. This safety level
ensures that neither the surrounding nor any other
equipment will be affected by a worst-case malfunction.
1 Resin-impregnated paper or resin-impregnated syntheticTo ensure that no rupture occurs in the worst-case scenario
we use
-state of the art design tools
-static and dynamic simulations which are verified with
tests
-composite insulators and reliable components
-qualified and approved sub-suppliers
Extended  – Essential combined with
alternative insulation and switching
technologies
By applying the measures of the “Essential” level, we
increase the safety with alternative insulation and switching
technologies. That means we use no mineral oil, SF 6, F-gas
or any other greenhouse gas at all. As an alternative, we
apply biodegradable ester fluids or clean air in our blue
portfolio. And in addition, the safety aspect is further
enhanced by e.g. plug-in bushings in RIP or RIS1 technology.
Therefore, this extended level provides a safe and
sustainable solution for the energy supply of the future.
Supreme – Extended combined with special
certification for highest duty and availability
Based on the known risks (e.g. operational issues, natural
disasters, vandalism) the right level of performance and
protection must be selected together with our customer.
Validated simulations and the verification by tests, even
beyond available standards are the base for special
certification. This guarantees the highest availability and
overall optimized total cost of ownership.
Figure 2 - New performance levels for Pretact EcoSafeT™ concept
White paper I Pretact EcoSafeT™
Unrestricted © 2020 Siemens Energy Transmission Page 3What are the key take-aways?
Our Pretact EcoSafeT™ substation concept offers increasing 
protection and performance options in three levels for all 
Siemens Energy Transmission products and solutions.
As the whole concept is a modular one, each product
replacement in an existing substation or power plant can be 
arranged, planned with the right level of performance and 
protection tailored to a customer’s demands. Restrictions in 
space footprint or by fire and environmental regulations can 
be considered as well. Even better, more strict fire and 
environmental regulations can be fulfilled easily with our 
Pretact EcoSafeT™ concept since no additional permanent 
firefighting systems are needed.
For a green field substation project, it is recommended to 
apply the “Supreme” level for all products, i.e. highest safety 
and environmental protection including certification. 
2 Geo-magnetic induced current
2 Direct currentSuch a supreme substation concept does not need a
permanent firefighting system, has a reduced footprint and 
allows an overall optimized total cost of ownership based on 
special certification for highest duties. And it is a sustainable 
investment in our future.
Like the Pretact® Resilience concept the EcoSafeT™ concept 
is based on a modular architecture. The features offered can 
be mixed and matched creating a tailored solution to meet 
the customer’s needs. For example, EcoSafeT™ products can 
be enriched with GIC2 withstand capability, DC3
compensation or bullet resistance protections where
applicable. Such enhanced products can be designed as
mobile solutions including resilience transformers, mobile 
gas-insulated switchgear or mobile systems. They can
include e-houses, skids, or complete mobile substations, to 
be more flexible and to be ready for the unexpected.
Figure 3 - Pretact EcoSafeT™ products within a transmission substation
Figure 4 - Pretact EcoSafeT™ products can be applied to mobile substations
White paper I Pretact EcoSafeT™
Unrestricted © 2020 Siemens Energy Transmission Page 4
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Freyeslebenstrasse 1
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com/website
Authors
Ewald Schweiger & Martin Stoessl
Disclaimer
This document contains statements related to our future business and financial performance and future events or developments involving Sie-
mens Energy that may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “look forward to,” 
“anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project” or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward-looking state-
ments in other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to shareholders and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may from 
time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens 
Energy’s management, of which many are beyond Siemens Energy’s control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and factors, 
including, but not limited to those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter Risks in Siemens Energy’s Annual Report. Should one or 
more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying expectations not occur or assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, per-
formance or achievements of Siemens Energy may (negatively or positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the 
relevant forward looking statement. Siemens Energy neither intends, nor assumes any obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking 
statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated. Trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of Siemens 
Energy, its affiliates or their respective owners.
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.