Maximizing power 
plant flexibility  
How more flexible, faster combined cycle power 
plant cycling can help support producer profit-
ability during the energy transition.
White paper
siemens-energy.com
As renewables grow in the energy mix used by 
North American power producers, keeping 
generating assets best utilized requires 
operating them with a flexibility that often 
exceeds the original capabilities of most plants 
today. Combined cycle power producers need 
to get into markets fast – when prices are 
high – and get out fast, when margins may be 
low or even negative.
Content
04 Abstract  
05 Renewables complicate  profitability for North American power 
producers
05 Challenging journey to a  decarbonized energy future
06 Operational flexibility’s impact on profitability
07 The impact of renewables on CCPP operating models
08 The growing role of ancillary services in grid stability and 
reliability
10 From base to cycling operation models: fast, flexible  
operational concepts
11 Operational flexibility improvement concepts
12 Plant optimization for hot starts: help reduce start-up  
times up to 50%
13 Plant optimization for warm starts: faster start-ups,  
lower fuel costs
13 Plant optimization for cold starts: more efficiency, less  
time to loading conditions
14 Fast plant shutdown optimization: saving fuel and CO2
15 Summary: Flexibility with speed and reliability, key to better 
asset utilization and improved profitability
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 3
Abstract
Given the steady growth of renewables in 
the North American energy mix, volatile fuel 
prices, and current and proposed govern-
mental legislation, the operational profiles 
of combined cycle power plants (CCPPs) are 
dramatically changing – from base load to 
cyclical modes. 
In addition, ancillary services are playing a 
growing role in helping to ensure grid 
reliability and accommodate an energy 
resource mix that will continue evolving 
with more renewables. 
These trends affect both regulated and 
unregulated markets. They require power 
producers to have more flexibility in their 
asset utilization in order to meet revenue 
goals, expand operating margins, and main-
tain profitability. How fast and reliably they 
can exercise that flexibility is critical, too.CCPP operators must not only generate 
power as efficiently as possible but also 
have their plants ready to ramp whenever 
power markets are paying premium prices. 
Increasing plant operational flexibility can 
help operators both minimize generation 
costs during times of low power prices and 
help capture the margins peak prices offer.
This paper focuses on measures intended to 
optimize CCPP operational flexibility for 
North American producers. It explains new 
operational profiles due to the energy 
transition, which make enhanced startup 
and shutdown processes necessary. These 
include optimized hot, warm, and cold 
starts, as well as improved ramp-up / ramp-
down load gradients.
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 4
Among the 3,000 utilities operating in the 
U.S. and the 16 major utilities operating in 
Canada, no two are alike. Each serves cus-
tomers of all kinds, from household con-
sumers to heavy industries. They can span 
different regional geographies with wide 
variations in seasonal demands, which can 
change dramatically from year to year. 
Their energy sources can vary widely, too, 
as can the age and composition of their 
generating capacity. Additionally, individual 
operators must comply with ever-changing 
federal and state environmental require-
ments, and regulated producers must abide 
by strict tariff structures. 
Finally, there are a myriad of other operating 
variables that can potentially affect a utility’s 
margins and, ultimately, its profitability.
1 Katherine Antonio, Short-Term Energy Outlook (STEO), U.S. Energy Information Administration, January 2024.
2 IBID.
3 Pieter Gagnon et al. 2023 Standard Scenarios Report: A U.S. Electricity Sector Outlook. National Renewable 
Energy Laboratory (NREL). Revised January 2024.Challenging journey to a 
decarbonized energy future
All North American utilities and indepen -
dent power producers face one common 
challenge: the rapid growth of renewables 
in the power-generation mix as the power 
industry continues moving toward a de - 
carbonized energy future.
In 2023, renewable energy sources – wind, 
solar, and hydro, chief among them – 
accounted for 22% of generation.1 From 
those sources, new solar projects coming 
online in the near-term are expected to 
propel solar’s growth 75% by 2025 while 
wind will grow 11% in that same time 
period.2 Looking even further ahead to 
2050, solar and wind generation is forecast 
to provide the energy for between 55%  
and 85% of total U.S. power generation.3 
Figure 1 illustrates the forecasted U.S. 
power-generating mix through 2025, 
showing solar overtaking wind and both 
eclipsing coal and nuclear combined. Renewables complicate  profitability 
for North American power producers
Capacity GW
2018 2020 2022 2024 2025600
500
400
300
200
100
0History STEO1) Forecast
Natural gas
Coal
NuclearRenewables
2018 2024050100150200250ForecastBreakout of renewables by source
Gigawatts at the end of period
1) Short term energy outlookSolar
Wind
Hydro
Biomass
GeothermalFigure 1 . Energy source trends in 
U.S. annual electric generating 
capacity (2018–2025). 
Source: U.S. Energy Information 
Administration
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 5
Figure 2 illustrates different forecast sce-
narios by 2050 for hourly U.S. electricity 
generation and load by fuel for selected 
cases and representative years, according  
to the U.S. Energy Information Administra-
tion. Of course, 2050 holds much uncer -
tainty in how these scenarios will unfold, but 
all scenarios clearly show the diminished 
role of coal compared to the fuel mix behind 
power generation in today’s grid. Across all 
long-term scenarios, the gas fleet remains 
essential for reliable grid operation although 
the operational profile evolves significantly.
In fact, coal’s anticipated exit from today’s 
grid by 2030 is straining the remaining 
dispatchable resources, particularly the 
natural gas turbine fleet, which will be ever 
more challenged to balance increasing 
electrical demand and increasingly variable 
supply. 
Asking more from today’s fleet creates an 
opportunity for plant owners to position 
their assets optimally for their future usage 
profile so they can potentially maximize 
4 Here’s how the Inflation Reduction Act is impacting green job creation. World Economic Forum. March 2023.
5 John Hensley. Inflation Reduction Act: It’s a Big Deal for Job Growth and for a Clean Energy Future. American 
Clean Power. August 2022.both their utilization of those assets and 
their operating margins. 
These described trends are manifesting 
themselves in today’s grid in specific sea-
sonal patterns. This evolution is expected to 
grow in frequency and magnitude 
throughout the country over time.
Operational flexibility’s impact 
on profitability
While rapidly falling prices of solar and wind 
technologies per kilowatt have spurred the 
growth of their adoption in recent years, 
renewables have secured government 
funding incentives to expand their deploy -
ments even more.
The U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) of 
2022 offers $370 billion in tax credits to 
boost the nation’s use of renewable energy.4 
Some industry observers estimate these 
credits will triple the amount of utility-scale 
green power in the U.S. from today’s levels 
to approximately 750 GW by 2030.5 While 400
300
200
100
0
-100
1 12 24billion kW-hours
1 12 24 1 12 24 1 12 24Reference case, 2022 Reference case, 2050
hour of the dayLow oil and gas 
supply case, 2050Low zero-carbon 
technology cost case, 2050
Coal
Nuclear
Natural gas and oil peakersNatural gas combined-cycle
Hydroelectric
WindStand-alone solar PV
Hybrid solar PV
Pumped storageStand-alone storage
Curtailment
Load, excluding storage
Figure 2 . Hourly U.S. electricity 
generation and load by fuel for 
selected cases and representative 
years in billion kilowatt-hours
Source: U.S. Energy Information 
Administration, Annual Energy 
Outlook 2023 (AEO2023)
Note: Negative generation represents 
charging of energy storage technologies 
such as pumped hydro and battery 
storage. Hourly dispatch estimates are 
illustrative and are developed to 
determine curtailment and storage 
operations; final dispatch estimates are 
developed separately and may differ from 
total utilization as this figure illustrates. 
Standalone solar photovoltaic (PV) 
includes both utility-scale and end-use PV 
electricity generation.
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 6
investment tax credits were primary motiva-
tors heretofore, the addition of production 
tax credits may accelerate solar’s develop-
ment even more.
This rapid expansion of renewables will 
likely require upgrades to North America’s 
grid, including ISO / RTO interconnections. At 
the same time, the variability caused by the 
intermittency of renewables means power 
producers who can become more flexible in 
how they operate their generating assets 
from day to day and season to season can 
improve business outcomes.
Indeed, utilities are already taking action. 
Factors such as power price variability, 
increased emission requirements affecting 
fossil power, and new market mechanisms 
are driving a shift in the operating profiles 
of CCPP assets from base load to flexible 
cycling modes. To adapt, CCPP assets may 
need to enhance their operational flexibility 
through improved start-up and shut-down 
times, higher load gradients, and other 
asset optimization concepts.The impact of renewables on 
CCPP operating models
These trends are affecting power plants in 
both regulated and deregulated markets. In 
the regulated U.S. Southeast market, for 
example, there is limited wind potential and 
as solar energy increases in the region’s 
energy mix, producers must balance supply 
and demand: overgeneration during the day 
while the sun is shining, versus rising 
demand as the sun is setting with solar-gen -
erated power exiting the grid. 
Figure 3 illustrates the expected deepening of 
the daily net demand ramp-rate curve (“Duck 
Curve”), a trend that while typically associ-
ated with California is now also projected in 
parts of the Southeast (shown in the figure 
for a regulated utility), through the antici-
pated growth in solar capacity by 2032. 
What is less commonly understood is how 
soon CCPPs and others will need to increase 
their operational flexibility and be capable 
of high ramp rates. Figure 4 illustrates how 
soon and how often system resource plan-
ning teams rely on this level of flexibility to 
maintain grid stability. 
Figure 3  (left).
How solar growth is expected to 
impact the ramp-rate curve of 
Southeast U.S. power producers 
through 2032.
Source: Siemens Energy models.
Figure 4  (right).
 A Southeastern U.S. utility’s fore-
cast of high gas ramp-up hours 
as the amount of solar grows in 
years to come.
Source: Siemens Energy models.
X axis: How many additional MW are needed to  
 maintain system balance. 
Y axis: How frequently that capability is utilized.High gas ramp up hours per scenarioCount of hoursReference – Current yearAdditional solar through 2024
Additional solar through 2030
Additional solar through 2032
020406080100120140160180750 1000 1250 1500 1750 2000
X axis: How many additional MW are needed to  
 maintain system balance. 
Y axis: How frequently that capability is utilized.High gas ramp up hours per scenarioCount of hoursReference – Current yearAdditional solar through 2024
Additional solar through 2030
Additional solar through 2032
020406080100120140160180750 1000 1250 1500 1750 2000
X axis: How many additional MW are needed to  
 maintain system balance. 
Y axis: How frequently that capability is utilized.High gas ramp up hours per scenarioCount of hoursReference – Current yearAdditional solar through 2024
Additional solar through 2030
Additional solar through 2032
020406080100120140160180750 1000 1250 1500 1750 2000
-1k01k2k3k4k5k
Reference – Current year (2022) solar
Additional solar through 2024
Additional solar through 2030
Additional solar through 2032 & no coalnet demand in MW
hour of the day-1k01k2k3k4k5k
Reference – Current year (2022) solar
Additional solar through 2024
Additional solar through 2030
Additional solar through 2032 & no coalnet demand in MW
hour of the day
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 7
In deregulated power markets, plants are 
dispatched based on the offers they submit 
to the market and the demand of the 
market. Typically, the most profitable periods 
are now concentrated during the evening 
although weather temperature extremes can 
cause spikes in demand, which can offer 
additional profit opportunities. 
As a result, CCPP operators may need to stay 
online during low-priced hours despite 
having negative margins so they can collect 
the offsetting and more profitable margins 
the market’s higher priced periods offer. 
This operating model may create losses for 
the plant during hours when renewable 
overgeneration occurs and available prices 
for power are negligible.
One measure CCPP producers can implement 
to help reduce these potential losses and help 
increase margins is to lower their minimum 
capacities during unprofitable hours. 
For example, as shown in Figure 5, a South-
central CCPP runs at a 69% load during 
non-profitable hours and ramps up its 
power production to 100% during high-
margin periods including sub-hourly peaks 
in the real time market. 
If the plant could increase its CCPP opera-
tional flexibility, it could potentially reduce 
its load significantly during non-profitable 
hours instead of operating at a 69% load. This strategy could help reduce the plant’s 
costs and losses during low-demand hours 
while also helping it to capitalize on the 
higher profit margins available during 
peak-priced periods, potentially boosting 
daily earnings. Improved cost structures 
could increase the likelihood of flexible 
plants being called on days with marginal 
demand as well as potentially capturing 
higher prices during real-time market 
surges.
The growing role of ancillary 
services in grid stability and 
reliability
As the proportion of renewables grows in 
the North American energy resource mix, 
their inherent intermittency and resulting 
variability impacts grid stability and reli-
ability as well as frequency control. In 
response, ISOs/RTOs are looking to ancillary 
services to better manage the grid during 
the transition to lower-carbon and net-zero 
resources.
ERCOT (Electric Reliability Council of Texas), 
for example, announced the ERCOT Contin-
gency Reserve Service (ECRS) in June 2023. 
As a daily procured ancillary service sup-
porting ERCOT’s reliability-first model for 
grid operations, it is intended to address 
growing energy demands in Texas, Day 1 Day 2DA / RT margin Percent load
0 20212223 19181716151413121110987654321 0 20212223 19181716151413121110987654321($1.3k)
($1.4k)
($1.5k)
($1.3k)
($1.1k)
 $0.3k
($0.2k)
($0.1k)
 $0.0k
 $0.0k
 $0.7k
 $2.3k
 $5.1k
 $8.5k
 $22.4k
 $33.2k
 $30.1k
 $26.0k
 $27.4k
 $15.1k
 $0.7k
($0.4k)
($0.8k)
($1.2k)
($1.3k)
($1.8k)
($1.5k)
($1.2k)
($0.8k)
($0.7k)
($0.8k)
($0.6k)
($0.3k)
($0.2k)
 $0.5k
 $0.7k
 $1.9k
 $3.4k
 $6.3k
  $7.7k
  $5.8k
 $2.3k
 $2.7k
 $1.2k
($0.1k)
($0.9k)
($0.8k)
($1.2k)40k
20k
0k69% 69% 69%72% 73% 71% 71%70%
66% 66% 66%78%84%93%98%101%101%101% 101%100%
100%100%99%
99% 96%93%
80%
40%60%80%100%
Measure names
Day ahead margin
Figure 5 . Hourly real-time and 
day-ahead margins of a large 
combined cycle Southcentral 
U.S. power plant plotted against 
its percent load, showing 
operating profit/loss durations.
Source: Siemens Energy models.hour
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 8
mitigating real-time operational issues to 
keep supply and demand balanced in order 
to help improve grid stability.6 
According to ERCOT, ECRS provides “capacity 
that can respond within 10 minutes to 
address forecasting errors or to replace 
deployed reserves.”7 ECRS will backstop four 
other procured ancillary services ERCOT 
buys in the day-ahead market to balance the 
next day’s forecasted supply and demand of 
grid electricity. The debut of ECRS could 
6 ERCOT Adds New Ancillary Service to Support Grid Reliability . June 12, 2023.
7 Ancillary Services. ERCOT. December 2023.
8 United States Power Ancillary Service Market. TechSci Research. January 2024.portend initiatives by other ISOs / RTOs to 
enhance the ancillary services they use to 
maintain grid stability and reliability. 
Overall, the energy transition is expected to 
drive substantial growth in the use of ancil-
lary services across North America. The U.S. 
power ancillary service market – led by the 
Frequency Controlled Ancillary Services 
segment – is estimated to have been worth 
$6.1 billion in 2022, with a 6.14% compound 
annual growth rate through 2028.8
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 9
Given the continued growth of renewables, 
today’s need for operational flexibility will 
likely increase well into the future. Opera-
tors can help address these challenges by 
accelerating plant ramp rates to improve 
plant responsiveness to higher-margin 
pricing opportunities.
CCPPs that are either currently transitioning 
or anticipating a shift from base load to 
cyclical operation will likely need to adapt 
their generating assets to meet these 
evolving operational requirements. A detailed 
plant and process analysis, such as a Tech -
nical Plant Assessment, is the first step CCPP 
producers should consider. This in-depth, 
end-to-end evaluation of a producer’s CCPP 
configuration, operations, and steam / water 
process can help identify, quantify, and 
prioritize improvement opportunities. 
As illustrated in Figure 6, these improve-
ment opportunities include increased power 
outputs and operating efficiencies, faster 
starts and shutdowns, improved load ramp 
gradient, low-load operation, and expanded 
operating ranges. To help enable CCPP operators to put these 
capabilities to work, Siemens Energy has 
developed a portfolio of advanced flexible 
operational concepts based on our suites of 
Flex-Power ServicesTM and Omnivise Perfor -
mance Solutions as shown in Figure 7. 
Emissions and 
efﬁciency
Advanced
operational
ﬂexibilityStart and stopperformancem
anagem
entEnergy
responseDemandand cool dow
n
Start readinessFigure 7 . Advanced CCPP flexi-
bility spans five key operating 
dimensions – all affecting asset 
utilization, compliance, margins, 
and profitability.
TimeBase load
Improved operation
Standard operationPowerFigure 6 . Potential for 
improved plant operational 
performance compared to 
standard plant operational 
performance after enhance-
ments using Siemens Energy 
Flex-Power Services™ and 
Omnivise Performance 
Solutions.From base to cycling operation models: 
fast, flexible operational concepts 
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 10
These advanced flexible operational con-
cepts could potentially result in faster dis-
patch times, reduced fuel consumption, and 
lower CO₂ emissions, while also enhancing 
the capability of CCPP operators to help 
maintain emission targets for both NOx and 
CO. These strategies have been successfully 
implemented by Siemens Energy in com -
bined cycle power plants around the world, 
particularly in Europe. 
Most of these concepts can be imple -
ment  ed via logic upgrades to the CCPP’s 
control software while some may  
require modifications to plant and auxiliary 
equipment.
Operational flexibility 
improvement concepts
The transition from a CCPP base load oper -
ating model to a cycling operating model 
requires producers to consistently achieve 
fast, efficient, and reliable start-ups of their 
generating assets regardless of how long 
those assets have been offline. For this 
paper, hot, warm, and cold starts can be 
defined as follows: Hot start: 
 Up to 8 hours  
post-shutdown.
 Warm start:  
Between 8- and 48-hours 
post-shutdown.
 Cold start:  
Between 48 hours post-  shutdown 
and up to 2 weeks post-shutdown.
One core start-up improvement concept, for 
example, involves the parallel ramping of 
both gas and steam turbines. Consider the 
scenario of an overnight shutdown of a 
CCPP. The next day, parallel ramping may 
help reduce start-up times to approximately 
30 minutes in some cases. 
A Low Load Turn Down concept can help 
reduce the minimum part-load capability of 
the gas turbine. This can assist CCPP opera -
tors who seek to enhance the operating 
flexibility of their gas turbines even further, 
potentially improving response times to 
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 11
grid demands and enabling combined cycle 
applications where part-load efficiency is 
desired. For example, when applied to an 
SGT6-5000F gas turbine, this concept may 
optimize and extend the part-load opera -
tion range by as much as 40%. 
Plant optimization for hot 
starts: help reduce start-up 
times up to 50%
Plant start optimization for hot starts can 
help reduce CCPP hot and warm start times. 
Although most CCPPs were originally built 
as base load facilities, they now must often 
operate as peak load plants or cycling 
plants with frequent start-ups due to 
changing market conditions and fuel prices. 
This challenges their operators to achieve 
fast and predictable start-up times while 
maintaining high dispatch capability and 
in- market availability. By implementing this 
flexibility optimization concept CCPP opera -
tors can potentially reduce the cost of each 
hot start and further reduce CO₂ emissions.
Additionally, with an improved start-up time producers can potentially generate 
additional revenue in times of high elec -
tricity prices.
The limitations affecting load output 
include pressure and temperature tran -
sients in the steam turbine, waiting times 
for establishing required steam chemistry 
conditions, and warm-up times for the 
steam turbine, balance of plant, and main 
piping systems. 
One key modification is a start-up on the fly 
process for the CCPP’s steam turbine.  
During this process, the turbine is rolled off 
with the very first “cold” steam produced in 
the heat recovery steam generator (HRSG), 
using full pressure and temperature tran -
sients. As a result, a start-up time of less 
than 50% may be possible for a CCPP after 
an overnight shutdown. 
Figure 8 illustrates the potential improve-
ment a parallel gas and steam turbine 
start-up process can provide compared to 
starting them sequentially. This procedure is 
a highly integrated orchestration of the gas 
and steam turbine and HRSG operations. 
Figure 8 . The hot-start concept 
using parallel gas and steam 
turbine start-ups can accelerate 
load ramping times by as much 
as 50%.
Improved start-up
concept
ImprovementSequential start-up 
conceptGas turbine &
parallel steam
turbine start-up
Steam turbine & 
gas turbine loading
Gas turbine hold time
Gas turbine start-upPlant
load
Time
Improved hot start-up time
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 12
Figure 9 . The load ramping 
speed of using the warm-start 
concept can be substantial.
Optimized warm
start-up concept
ImprovementSequential 
start-up 
concept
Gas turbine hold timePlant
load
TimePlant optimization for warm 
starts: faster start-ups, lower 
fuel costs 
Plant start optimization for warm starts uses 
many hot-start techniques to help reduce 
CCPP start-up times by up to 50% when the 
plant block is still warm. For instance, if the 
start-up time of a warm start at a SGT6-5000F 
GT can be reduced by 50 minutes, a CCPP 
operator can use the warm-start concept to 
potentially cut start-up fuel consumption by 
more than 800 MMBtus, saving fuel costs and 
potentially avoiding associated emissions of 
up to 44 tons of CO₂ per warm start. 
The savings depend on the size and tempera-
ture of the gas turbine and can potentially 
increase responsiveness to transmission 
demand signals from ISOs /RTOs.
Figure 9 illustrates how the plant-start optimi-
zation concept can substantially improve 
CCPP start-up efficiency. This can significantly 
reduce combined cycle warm start-up times, 
in some cases to less than 60 minutes.The potential for time reductions and effi-
ciency improvements during start-ups can 
be fully tapped by implementing a fast 
start-up load gradient of up to 30MW per 
minute, although this load gradient can vary 
across different gas turbine frames.
Plant optimization for cold 
starts: more efficiency, less 
time to loading conditions
The ability to start-up a CCPP’s turbine block 
much faster from longer shutdowns can 
make a difference in dispatch in competi -
tive markets. During extended offline 
periods of several days or longer, the steam 
cycle will cool down, especially its high and 
intermediate pressure steam turbines. 
Implementing a steam turbine hot standby 
method, such as using electrical heating 
blankets, to either prevent or limit this 
cooling can shorten start-up times during  
a shutdown phase of up to two weeks.
Optimized warm start-up time
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 13
If the plant was built without a gas-fired 
auxiliary steam boiler, an electrical auxiliary 
steam generator can be retrofitted. The 
electrical auxiliary steam generator’s objec-
tive is to provide enough steam to seal the 
steam turbine and create a vacuum in the 
condenser before the gas turbine starts. 
This helps allow early steam condenser 
bypass operation and helps avoid long low 
load operation times with the HRSG venting 
valves. 
Keeping the steam turbine sealed and under 
vacuum also helps prevent air ingress, 
improve the feedwater quality, and mini-
mize water-chemistry related hold times 
during the start.
This concept is intended to help:
• Increase responsiveness to transmission 
ISO / RTO demand signals.
• Shorten start-up time, in some cases up 
to 50%. 
• Boost efficiency in the start-up process.
In addition, the degassed conductivity 
concept may shorten the start-up time of a 
combined cycle power plant – especially for cold starts as the waiting time for steam 
purity may be significantly reduced. This 
method controls the steam purity and distin-
guishes between the corrosive contami-
nants and less harmful CO₂ by re-boiling the 
sample downstream from the cation column 
to remove CO₂.
Fast plant shutdown  
optimi zation: saving fuel  
and CO2 
CCPP shutdowns can require considerable 
time and fuel for conducting the necessary 
unloading processes. In competitive 
markets, the ability to shut down a plant 
faster can help reduce time spent in tran-
sient conditions with non-optimal efficien-
cies and enhance responsiveness.
The fast plant shutdown concept was devel-
oped to significantly shorten a CCPP’s shut-
down time, in some cases to less than 30 
minutes. As shown in Figure 10, the concept 
leads to less fuel consumption and potential 
improvements to both operating costs and 
profitability.
Figure 10 . The fast plant shut 
down concept can shorten the 
time to less than 30 minutes in 
some cases, saving fuel costs 
while potentially improving 
profitability.
Fast plant
shutdown concept
Improvement Sequential
shutdown
conceptGas turbine hold time during
start of steam turbine shutdownPlant
load
Time
Combined cycle shutdown time
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 14
Summary: Flexibility with speed and 
reliability, key to better asset 
utilization and improved 
profitability
In the past decade, the operating profiles 
of CCPPs have significantly shifted due to 
the growth in renewables in producers’ 
energy resource mix as well as volatile fuel 
prices and governmental legislation. The 
impact of these trends on the current and 
future operations and profitability of typical 
CCPPs necessitate a shift from outdated 
base load to cyclical operation.
CCPP flexibility and responsiveness to 
market signals are critical to sustainable 
margins and profits. To help achieve these 
capabilities and prepare their CCPPs for 
current and upcoming market conditions, 
operators can implement fast start-up 
concepts across hot, warm, and cold turbine conditions along with fast shut-
downs and load gradient improvements to 
potentially improve their competitiveness, 
asset utilization, and profitability. 
To that end, Siemens Energy Advanced 
Operational Flexibility solutions based on 
Flex-Power ServicesTM and Omnivise Perfor -
mance have been developed to help CCPP 
operators address operational flexibility. 
Implementation of plant-specific recom-
mendations including the flexible CCPP 
operating concepts can result in plant 
capabilities that can successfully meet the 
challenges of North American power 
markets today and far into the future.
White paper | Maximizing power plant flexibility
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 15
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc  
4400 N AlafayaTrail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com
This publication is provided for informational pur  - 
poses only and you should not construe any 
information presented as legal, tax, investment, 
financial, or other professional advice. The content  
is of a general nature and does not address the 
specific circumstances of any particular market, event, 
application or installation, nor does it constitute a 
comprehensive or complete statement of the matters 
discussed or the laws relating thereto. Any infor  -
mation about Siemens Energy products and services is 
subject to change without notice. Expected capa - 
bilities or benefits may not apply in specific 
applications or be realized in all cases. Nothing in  
this document shall be deemed or construed to  
be a warranty or guarantee of the information, 
product(s), service(s) or method(s) described herein.
All product designations may be trademarks or 
product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. 
KG or other companies whose use by third parties for 
their own purposes could violate the rights of the 
owners.Authors: 
Matthias Nickl, Thorsten Wolf, Robert Hostetler, 
Nicola Erhard-Winterberg, David Fernandes,  
Cristina Becle 