CertaLink  
Energy Certificate – 
Growing from need 
to certification
Producing and using 
carbon-neutral energy 
will be the license to 
operate in 2050.
One of the main challenges to overcome 
on the path to climate neutrality is incen-
tivizing and providing proof of the sustain- 
able origin of energy and goods. This has 
forced governments to enact and enforce 
policies and regulations such as tax credits 
that promote the use of green energy. The 
European Union being a leader in carbon- 
neutral campaigns approved “Fit for 55”, 
a program that will reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030.  Furthermore, strict policies through 
auditing should be enacted on hydrogen, 
e-fuels, ammonia, and steel commodities 
whose environmental footprint during 
production is outsized. They require an 
innovative approach and verifiable audit 
trails. The trail should cover the entire 
energy value chain from generation to 
consumption across sectors, borders and 
to the creation of individual products to 
stop greenwashing.
 2CertaLink Energy Certificate | Customer challenge
Our solution
Siemens Energy offers the CertaLink Energy Certification 
Manager to track the envi ronmental impact of the ent ire 
pro- duction process step by step. It covers a variety of 
certification schemes for renewable and low-carbon 
electricity, hydrogen, e-fuels, and other energy carriers.
Thanks to the partnership with  
TÜV SÜD and the German Energy 
Agency (dena), the CertaLink Energy Certification brings scheme holders, independent certification bodies and registries together.
Additionally, the certification manager connects 
physical asse ts to a distributed ledger technology 
(DTL) of infrastructure. An implemented  DTL eco- 
system is th e main require ment for the  certificate’s 
verification,  interoperab ility, tamper-p roof authen-
tication, and portability across the different indus-
trial sectors .
Once qualifi ed the certifi cate will b e issued instan t- 
ly, automatically, a nd in accordance w ith legal or 
market require ments. All the relevant information 
needed to prove the sustai nable origin and  carbon 
footprint of your green or low-carbo n product is 
included in th e certificate .Start with 
CO2 free 
electricityProve your 
product is greenCertaLink Energy Certification 
across sectors and 
borders
 3CertaLink Energy Certificate | Our solution
cess and satisfy the market needs of the Power-to-X and 
other energy-intensive industries but also will enable businesses to
•
G
ain customs and tax reductions
•A
chieve higher market prices for products produced
b
y clean energy or having a reduced carbon footprint
•M
eet future governmental requirements
(
e.g. EU program “Fit for 55”)
•S
ecure project financing by providing proof of
s
ustainability, and
•E
nable the trading of energies on stock exchanges
and in other marketplacesFortunately, CertaLink Energy Certificates  ensure 
traceability of the carbon footprint of energy products, 
energy imports, and energy consumption. It is the ulti -
mate proof of the reduced carbon intensity. 
Customers and partners are welcome to participate in 
this new and evolving market by certifying their renew -
able energy products or the production of hydrogen by electrolysis or even certifying the production of green and low carbon fuels. Not only will CertaLink Energy Certification simplify the sustainability certification pro- As the world shifts towards cleaner energy sources, 
authenticating green products and proving CO2 emis- 
sions content has become increasingly imperative.
Legally 
compliantInstant & 
automated 
issuanceApplicable 
across borders 
& sectors
100% 
transparencyLow  
costIn 2023 Siemens Ene rgy applied the Cer taLink Energy 
Certification Manager at Nobian’ s chlor-alkali 
electrolysis plant  in Germany. Nob ian has been 
providing green hyd rogen since 202 1 and as the first 
certified chlor-a l-kali electrolysis  plant, they 
understand the de mand for an automated, transparent 
and fully traceable  certifica-t ion process along the 
whole value chain.
 4CertaLink Energy Certificate | Customer benefits
Published by
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/clean-energy-certificates
This publication is provided for informational purposes only and you 
should not construe any information presented as legal, tax, investment, 
financial, or other professional advice. The content is of a general nature 
and does not address the specific circumstances of any particular market, 
event, application or installation, nor does it constitute a comprehensive 
or complete statement of the matters discussed or the laws relating 
thereto. Any information about Siemens Energy products and services is 
subject to change without notice. Expected capabilities or benefits may 
not apply in specific applications or be realized in all cases. Nothing in this 
document shall be deemed or construed to be a warranty or guarantee of 
the information, product(s), service(s) or method(s) described herein.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens 
Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third 
parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.