Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Berlin , March  1, 2023  
Blueprint for commercial e -fuel production  being 
built with Siemens Energy technology  
Danish energy company Ørsted is building Europe’s largest commercial production facility  for carbon -
neutral marine fuels  in northeastern Sweden . At the heart of the FlagshipONE plant is a technology package 
from Siemens  Energy  comprising four proton exchange membrane  (PEM ) electrolyzers with a total capacity 
of 70  megawatts,  as well as the plant -wide electrification and automation system s, including innovative 
digitalization solutions (such as the use of digital twins), and the entire power distribution and compressor 
systems. The plant, which is being built in the Swedish coastal town of Örnsköldsvik , will be able to produce 
up to 50,000 metric tons of e -methanol per year from renewable energy  and biogenic carbon dioxide from 
2025. As a substitute for fossil fuels, this can avo id 100,000 tons of CO 2 emissions per year in shipping . 
 
Anne -Laure de Chammard, Member of the Executive Board for Transformation of Industry at 
Siemens  Energy, said: “Without hydrogen or alternative fuels such as e -methanol, there will be no energy 
transit ion. We need to ramp up these novel industries as quickly  as possible, which in turn requires 
economically viable business models and private investment. Groundbreaking projects like this are 
important to finally move from talk to action."  
 
Anders Nordstr øm, COO of Ørsted P2X, said:  “At Ørsted, we want to create a world that runs entirely on 
green energy, and we believe that partnerships will be key to accelerate and develop the power -to-x 
solutions needed for the hard -to-electrify sectors. Siemens Energy is already a partner of Ørsted in our 
various renewable energy businesses, and I’m pleased that we now extend this longstanding partnership to 
power -to-x as well.”  
 
Ørsted’s  plant  represents the start of commercial production of carbon neutral  e-methanol  in Europe, based 
on a unique approach. Instead of building bespoke plants at each location, FlagshipONE will act as a 
blueprint – a “copy -and-paste” model – that can be scaled an d replicated at other locations, in Sweden and 
elsewhere . The standardization approach  has been created by the  Swedish company  Liquid Wind AB,  the 
original developer of FlagshipONE. Liquid Wind develops replicable facilities to produce e -fuel and has  plans 
to develop  at least  ten facilities in Scandinavia  by 2030. As  a partner to Liquid Wind, Siemens  Energy plays a Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
significant part in developing and progressing this trailblazing concept and provides the framework  for 
turning these e-fuel facilities  into reality with  its technology package.  
 
FlagshipONE  uses  renewable electricity to produce green hydrogen , using Siemens  Energy  electrolyzers . 
A further stage in the synthesis process brings in biogenic carbon dioxide from a nearby biomass -fired  
combined heat and  power station. The resulting e -methanol is a CO 2-neutral electro fuel that is easy to store 
and transport. The e -methanol from FlagshipONE will be used in state -of-the-art “dual -fuel” ship engines, 
either alone or as an admixture to conventional fuel , and contribute toward s the decarbonization  of 
interna tional maritime transportation, which accounts for three percent of global carbon emissions.  
 
Green fuels are currently unava ilable in sufficient volumes and the cost is significantly above fossil fuel.  This 
is where FlagshipONE  comes in.  The plant provid es a blueprint for modular e -methanol plants t o ramp up 
the industry in a way that is both flexible and market -oriented , and to enable experience that can be fed 
into the ongoing improvement of existing and new plants using the digital -twin concept.  
The next plant, FlagshipTWO, is already being developed  by Liquid Wind and will be  able to supply 100,000 
metric tons of e -methanol to the market using a 140 -MW capaci ty electrolyzer.  
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Claudia Nehring  
Phone:  +49 162 166 8424  
E-mail:  claudia.nehring@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and  further material is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
Follow us o n Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and  partners  on 
energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, so lutions 
and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to st orage. The 
portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated  
with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarboniz ed. A 
majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for 
renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy . 
Siemens Energy employs around 9 2,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €2 9 billion in fiscal 
year 202 2. www.siemens -energy.com . 