Joint press release  
   
   
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany   Air Liquide  
Corpoate Communication  
L75, quai d’Orsay  
75007 Paris  
France  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin , Paris  June 23, 2022  
Press release  by Siemens Energy and Air Liquide  
Siemens Energy and Air Liquide form a joint 
venture for the European production of large 
scale renewable hydrogen electrolyzers  
Siemens Energy and Air Liquide announce the creation of a joint venture dedicated to the series 
production of industrial scale renewable hydrogen electrolyzers in Europe. With two of the global 
leading companies in their field combining their expertise, this Franco -German partnership will 
enable the emergence of a sust ainable hydrogen economy in Europe and foster a European 
ecosystem for electrolysis and hydrogen technology. Production is expected to begin in the second 
half of 2023 and ramp -up to a n annual  production capacity of three gigawatts by 2025.  
 
Air Liquide wi ll take 25.1 percent, and Siemens Energy will hold 74.9 percent of the joint venture, 
which creation remains subject to approval of the competent authorities. This joint venture will be 
headquartered in Berlin. The joint venture multi -gigawatt factory that  produces electrolysis modules 
(“stacks”) would be also located in the German capital, as announced earlier this year. This factory 
will supply stacks to both Groups for their respective broad range of customers and to serve the 
rapidly growing market. Bas ed on proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolysis technology, these 
stacks will feature a high degree of efficiency and are ideally suited to harvest volatile renewable 
energy. In addition, Air Liquide and Siemens Energy have agreed to dedicate R&D capacit ies to the 
co-development of the next generation of electrolyzer technologies within the framework of the 
partnership.  
 
The strategic partnership will benefit from a portfolio of hydrogen projects combining both Air 
Liquide and Siemens Energy’s pipelines,  targeting large industrial -scale hydrogen projects in 
collaboration with customers. This will create a solid basis for the required rapid ramp -up of Joint p ress release  

Joint press release  
   
   
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany   Air Liquide  
Corpoate Communication  
L75, quai d’Orsay  
75007 Paris  
France  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
electrolysis capacities and thus is expected to make competitive renewable hydrogen available 
sooner. One of the first projects is the Air Liquide Normand’Hy electrolyzer project, with a capacity 
of 200 megawatts (MW) expected in the first phase, located in Normandy, France. The assembly of 
the electrolyzer  systems  for this project is planned to be made in Fra nce.  
 
“We want to be a driving force in hydrogen technology ,” said Christian Bruch, CEO , and President of 
Siemens Energy AG.  “To make green hydrogen competitive, we need s erially produced, low -cost, 
scalable electrolyzers. We also need strong partnerships . Together with Air Liquide as a pioneer in 
hydrogen for over 50 years, we look forward to implementing innovative solutions  and 
collaborating to shape this new hydrogen market .” 
 
François Jackow, Chief Executive Officer  of Air Liquide, said:  “The creation of this Franco -German 
joint venture is a major step towards the emergence of a leading European renewable and low -
carbon hydrogen ecosystem. By scaling up the p roduction of large scale electrolyzers, Air Liquide 
and Siemens Energy will be able to provide their customers with access to large amounts of 
competitive renewable hydrogen and to decarbonize their activities. In line with its Sustainable 
Development stra tegy, Air Liquide is more than ever committed to making hydrogen a driving force 
of the energy transition and of the fight against global warming.”  
 
The partners have and will apply for “large projects” funding under the EU’s Innovation Fund, Green 
Deal, a nd Important Project of Common European Interest (IPCEI) -scheme for hydrogen, funded by 
the European Governments.  
 
 
 
Contact s for journalists  
Siemens Energy  
Alfons Benzinger  
Phone: +49 174 155 9447  
E-Mail: alfons.benzinger@siemens -energy.com    Claudia Nehring  
Phone:  +49 162 1668424  
E-mail:  claudia.nehring@siemens -energy.com  
 
Joint press release  
   
   
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany   Air Liquide  
Corpoate Communication  
L75, quai d’Orsay  
75007 Paris  
France  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Air Liquide  
Corporate Communications  
media@airliquide.com    
 Investor Relations  
IRTeam@airliquide.com   
 
 
This press release and press pictures are  available at www.siemens -energy.com/press  
For further information on green hydrogen please see www.siemens -energy.com/hydrogen   
Follow us on Twit ter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy   
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmissi on to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been d ecarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Sieme ns Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around  91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €2 8.5 billion in fiscal year 202 1. 
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
Air Liquide  is a world leader in gases, technologies and services for Industry and Health . Air Liquide is present in 75 
countries with approximately 66,400 employees and serves more than 3.8 million customers and patients. Oxygen, 
nitrogen and hydrogen are essential small molecules for li fe, matter and energy. They embody Air Liquide’s scientific 
territory and have been at the core of the company’s activities since its creation in 1902. Taking action today while 
preparing the future is at the heart of Air  Liquide’s strategy. With ADVANCE, its strategic plan for 2025, Air  Liquide is 
targeting a global performance, combining financial and extra -financial dimensions. Positioned on new markets, the 
Group benefits from major assets such as its business model combining resilience and strength, it s ability to innovate and 
its technological expertise. The Group develops solutions contributing to climate and the energy transition  – particularly 
with hydrogen  – and takes action to progress in areas of healthcare, digital and high technologies.  Air Liq uide’s revenue 
amounted to more than 23 billion euros in 2021. Air Liquide is listed on the Euronext Paris stock exchange (compartment 
A) and belongs to the CAC 40, CAC 40 ESG, EURO STOXX 50 and FTSE4Good indexes.  
www.airliquide.com   