siemens -energy.comThe LIFE Blue GIS 
420 kV project:
Delivering SF6-free clean -air switchgear with a 
digital low power instrument transformer

© 2025 Siemens Energy Page 2Project objective
Almost all high -voltage electrical switchgear in the last fifty 
years has used SF6-gas for insulation. SF6is extremely 
climate -hostile, with a global warming potential (GWP) of 
24,300.
Clean air insulation and vacuum switching technology, both 
of which have a GWP of zero, are increasingly used in 72.5 kV 
and 145 kV switchgear as an alternative to SF6. Until now, 
however, these have not been commercially available in 
420 kV equipment. Both technologies stand for zero compro -
mise in respect of the environment, health and safety.The aim of the LIFE Blue project is to demonstrate for the first 
time the economic viability of a climate -friendly 420 kV gas -
insulated switchgear (GIS) completely free of fluorinated 
greenhouse gases (F -gases) and intentionally free of PFAS 
with a digital low power instrument transformer (LPIT).
Backed by EU funding and in partnership with Elia, operator 
of the electricity transmission network in Belgium, this Blue 
GIS will be installed at the transmission system operator 
(TSO) Elia site in Vilvoorde .
Project stages
The GIS will be extensively tested and monitored on an 
ongoing basis; a summary of the project’s various work 
packages is provided below.
Project 
management and 
coordinationProduct and 
technology 
developmentPilot 
realizationPilot 
operationImpact 
monitoring 
and 
evaluationSustainability, 
replication and 
exploitation of 
project resultsEU LIFE Blue GIS 420 kV
The power of partnership
Collaboration is key in all of our projects. Here we are working 
closely with the EU Programme for the environment and 
climate action (LIFE) who have provided substantial funding, 
and Elia, Belgian’s electricity system operator and a valuable 
customer for many years.
This joint project began on October 1, 2024, and is scheduled 
to continue until September 30, 2028.
Learn more about the LIFE Blue project here .

EU LIFE Blue GIS 420 kV
©2025 Siemens Energy Page 3Project management and 
coordination
•Efficient project management, including timely reporting 
to the European Commission (EC), auditing, risk 
management, and monitoring of progress and costs
•Updating of the project management plan, organizing 
meetings, ensuring that deliverables and milestones are 
met, and appointing an independent auditor
•Procurement activities and permission processes for the 
pilot installation
Product and technology 
development
•Development and validation of the low power instrument 
transformer (LPIT) technology through extensive type and 
qualification tests
•Equipment testing under high -voltage conditions, 
monitoring of transient response performance and 
electromagnetic compatibility, plus temperature and 
vibration tests
•Preparation of LPITs for pilot application and inter -
operability testing with various Intelligent Electronic 
Devices (IEDs).
Pilot realization
•Detailed planning, manufacturing, and installation of the 
pilot site at the TSO Elia substation
•Site preparation, civil works, removal of existing switch -
gear, and integration of the new SF6-free Blue 420 kV GIS 
technology
•Delivery, installation, and commissioning of the pilot bay, 
ensuring minimal outages during implementationPilot operation
•Operation and monitoring of the Blue 420 kV GIS under 
real operational conditions
•Evaluation of performance during seasonal variations, 
monitoring of system reliability, and collection of data on 
the durability of components and operational efficiency
•Maintenance activities and specific test protocols to 
ensure a thorough evaluation of the pilot’s performance
Impact monitoring and evaluation
•Assessment of the technological, environmental, and 
socio -economic impacts of the project
•Analysis of testing and operational data, plus life cycle 
assessment (LCA) to quantify environmental benefits
•Evaluation of the project’s contribution to job creation, 
market trends, and awareness of climate -neutral 
technologies
Sustainability, replication and 
exploitation of project results
•Dissemination of project results, fostering links with other 
EU-funded projects, and ensuring replication and 
commercialization of the Blue 420 kV GIS technology
•Creation of a business plan, development of a replication 
strategy for future installations, and continuing 
dissemination and exploitation efforts after the project 
concludes
symbolic illustration

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Grid Technologies
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen
Germany
For more information, please visit our website: 
siemens -energ y.com
or contact us via Email:
support@siemens -energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2025
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance f eatures 
which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of 
the products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contra ct.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose 
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Grid Technologies
4912 Green Road
Raleigh, NC 27616
USA
© 2025 Siemens Energy Page 4EU LIFE Blue GIS 420 kV