26 APRIL -JUNE 2022     DIESEL & GAS TURBINE WORLDWIDE      
SIMILAR OR LOWER  NOX EMISSIONS
Recently, Göteborg Energi and Siemens 
Energy have demonstrated how to use 
biofuels effectively together with combined 
cycle gas turbine technology at the Rya 
CHP district heat and electricity plant in 
Sweden. As part of a program supported by 
the Swedish Energy Agency, the plant was 
operated for two days in November 2021 
on HVO, proving both start-up and stable 
operations. 
“The tests successfully demonstrated 
both start-up and stable operations. The 
operations also showed that the emissions 
of nitrogen oxides (NOx) were similar or 
lower than when operating on conventional 
diesel, ” says Dr. Daniel Moëll, Project 
Manager for Green Fuel Combustion at 
Siemens Energy.
Additionally, a new backup plant planned 
by Stockholm Exergi will be operating solely 
on liquid biofuel, securing electricity for the 
entire city of Stockholm at all times. These 
projects demonstrate that green biofuels 
are a viable replacement for natural gas or 
diesel in backup and peaking plants and can 
support energy transition.  
UNDERSTANDING THE POTENTIAL OF 
BIOFUELS  
But first, let’s look at the bioenergy market 
in general before approaching these 
applications. Bioenergy is electricity and 
heat generated from organic matter, such World energy consumption is 
expected to grow by nearly 50% 
over the next thirty years. While 
rapid expansion in renewable electricity 
generation, such as solar and wind, is 
expected to absorb much of this new 
demand, this alone won’t be enough. 
New green fuels and technologies will be 
needed to maintain the supply and balance 
the volatile nature of solar and wind 
while ensuring a sufficiently rapid power 
generation transition away from fossil fuels.  
Replacing natural gas with green biofuels 
in gas turbines is one key solution that’s 
often overlooked. Made from renewable 
sources, biofuels, such as Hydrotreated 
Vegetable Oil (HVO), can be deployed 
in existing infrastructures to provide 
backup and peaking power, thereby 
complementing renewables at a low carbon 
footprint. Green biofuels:  
A proven fuel for  
gas turbinesAs we move away from fossil 
fuels, green fuel alternatives 
are needed to balance 
the volatile nature of solar 
and wind. A key option is 
to replace conventional 
natural gas and diesel fuels 
with green biofuels in gas 
turbines. By  Heidi Vella , 
energy and technology 
journalistBIOFUELS
as plants and timber, agricultural and food 
waste, and even sewage. The energy stored 
in biomass can be utilized in different ways; 
combustible feedstocks can be burned to 
produce heat and steam (e.g., to generate 
electricity through a steam turbine), turned 
into a gaseous fuel via anaerobic digestion 
or gasification, or converted into liquid 
biofuels (such as HVO, other biodiesels, 
biomethanol, etc.). The latter two have the 
potential of being used in gas turbines. 
BIOFUELS
93% compared to fossil fuels. They can be 
produced utilizing a closed-loop circular 
process and are thus considered renewable. 
Moreover, as the International Energy 
Agency (IEA) states in its 2021 World 
Energy Outlook, a further advantage of 
biofuels is that they can be adopted with 
minimal retrofit costs by end-users. As 
recently proven in Gothenburg, biofuels 
can utilize already existing gas turbines and 
infrastructures.
GROWING MOMENTUM FOR GREEN 
BIOFUELS
So, it´s no surprise that opportunities 
offered by green biofuels for both simple 
cycle and combined cycle power plants 
are piquing operators’ interest. Swedish 
operators, such as Göteborg Energi and 
Stockholm Exergi, are at the frontline and 
supported by Siemens Energy.
Göteborg Energi produces both district heating and electricity at the Rya KVV 
power plant and plays an important role in 
the city’s electricity supply.  The validation 
of biodiesel (HVO-100) at the plant has 
proven its suitability with Siemens Energy 
medium-sized gas turbines using third 
generation DLE (Dry Low Emission) 
burners. While the utility facility plans to 
switch to green fuels in its SGT-800 gas 
turbines, it continues to collaborate with 
Siemens Energy to achieve this. 
BECOMING A FOSSIL-FREE CITY
The successful tests in Gothenburg were 
of course good news for Stockholm 
Exergi, who provide heating, cooling, 
and electricity to the Stockholm area, 
and recently invested in an SGT-800 gas 
turbine as a backup application that will 
run on liquid biodiesel starting in 2025. 
This move will help the company reach its 
target of becoming climate-positive in its 
operations as well as be able to contribute 
to Stockholm’s goal of 
becoming a 
The validation of 
biodiesel (HVO-100) 
at the Rya CHP plant in Sweden 
has proven its suitability with Siemens 
Energy medium-sized gas turbines using 
third generation DLE (Dry Low Emission) 
burners. The facility plans to switch to green 
fuels in its SGT-800 gas turbines, and will work 
with Siemens Energy to achieve this. Biofuels are showing that they have 
real potential in addressing the energy 
challenges that Europe and the world are 
facing today. The European energy market 
has proven sensitive to geopolitical events 
and unexpected cold snaps. Both can 
result in skyrocketing electricity prices and 
increased coal-fired power used to plug the 
supply gap, thereby causing more pollution 
and adverse environmental impact. 
FLEXIBLE BACKUP AND PEAKING 
POWER WILL BE VITAL
Currently, Europe has ambitious renewable 
energy targets for addressing these 
challenges, but most are set for the end of 
the decade and require rapidly scaling up 
projects and grid upgrades, which have long 
lead-in times. Therefore, as these projects 
come online, flexible backup and peaking 
power will be vital for grid balancing to 
avoid blackouts and ensure electricity 
supply. Green biofuels can provide this 
while transitioning away from 
natural gas, diesel, and coal-
powered generation.
Biofuels, such as 
HVO, can cut 
greenhouse gas 
emissions 
by up to 
27 DIESEL & GAS TURBINE WORLDWIDE      APRIL-JUNE 2022
28 APRIL -JUNE 2022     DIESEL & GAS TURBINE WORLDWIDE      BIOFUELS
fossil-free city.
To ensure electricity for the entire city, 
the plant requires fast-starting dispatchable 
power with black-start capability. The new 
SGT-800 simple cycle gas turbine plant on 
biodiesel can provide this with a low carbon 
footprint. Stockholm Exergi’s investment 
gives credence to biofuels having real 
potential for supporting the ongoing energy 
transition for power generation. 
THIRD GENERATION DLE BURNER 
DEVELOPMENT
“Green Biofuels are an important part 
of our gas turbine R&D roadmap. We 
are continuously developing our third 
generation DLE burners for wider fuel 
flexibility, and our gas turbines can already 
operate today on renewable fuels, such 
as biogas and up to 75% hydrogen. We 
have now shown the possibilities of also 
using liquid biofuels, providing increasing 
flexibility for our customers” , says Hans 
Holmström, Vice President of the Industrial 
Gas Turbine business at Siemens Energy.
Siemens Energy is deploying 
innovative technologies, such as Additive 
Manufacturing (3D printing), to develop 
this next generation of flexible burners with 
greater speed and optimization.  Additive 
manufacturing enables advanced burner 
designs with optimized functionality to 
handle different green fuels.
BIOFUELS CAN BRIDGE THE GAP
Siemens Energy is planning further fuel 
flexibility testing of both existing and newly developed burners going forward. The 
aim is to offer several alternatives soon for 
operating their turbines on 100% renewable 
fuels, including hydrogen and green 
biofuels. 
At the same time, given Europe’s 
ambitious targets for the scale-up of 
hydrogen, one might ask why not focus 
only on hydrogen as an alternative to 
natural gas? Why do we also need green 
biofuels? Without a doubt, building 
the necessary infrastructure as well as 
expanding renewables significantly needed 
for hydrogen production will take time. 
Biofuels, on the other hand, can add to the 
diversity of fuel supply much sooner and 
require less storage capacity than hydrogen 
due to their lower volumes. While hydrogen 
is undoubtedly set to be a dominant fuel 
of the future, biofuels can bridge the gap 
in the medium to short term as well as be 
a complementary fuel to hydrogen in the 
longer term. SOLUTIONS TO BIOFUEL CHALLENGES
Biofuels are already available today and the 
IEA forecasts demand to grow by nearly 
1.5 million barrels of oil equivalent per day. 
Fortunately, with emerging technologies, 
the fuel has robust scale-up potential. 
For example, biomass gasification can be 
used to produce both gaseous and liquid 
biofuels from forest and agriculture waste. 
Though much of this waste isn’t suitable for 
conventional biomass-fired power plants, 
it still can be efficiently used to produce 
advanced biofuels at scale and is ultimately 
more sustainable and significantly cost-
efficient. 
SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY SUPPORTS 
CO2 REDUCTION
While biofuels still produce emissions 
when generating electricity and heat, they 
can come from a closed-loop renewable 
feedstock cycle. This requires growing as 
much biomass as is being harvested. But 
how they’re derived is also important. 
EU taxonomy states that fuels produced 
from sustainable production, which 
are not obtained from land having high 
biodiversity or carbon stock and can 
provide more than 80% GHG saving, are 
considered sustainable. 
The most optimal solution is using 
waste from agriculture and forestry for 
fuel production. Sustainable forestry, 
such as using timber as construction 
wood and forestry waste as an energy 
feedstock, can create negative CO2 release 
as well as displace other CO2-emitting 
materials, such as steel and concrete. This 
sustainability edge under current and 
upcoming EU taxonomy can help secure 
      BIOFUEL GROWTH
According to the International Energy Agency (IEA) predictions, annual global demand for biofuels is 
set to grow by 28% by 2026, reaching 186 billion liters. The United States leads in volume increases, 
but much of this growth is a rebound from the drop caused by the pandemic. Asia accounts for 
almost 30% of new production over the forecast period, overtaking European biofuel production 
by 2026. This is thanks to strong domestic policies, growing liquid fuel demand and export-driven 
production. Recent Indian ethanol policies and blending targets for biodiesel in Indonesia and 
Malaysia are responsible for most of the growth in Asia. India is set to become the third largest 
market for ethanol demand worldwide by 2026.
Between 2010 and 2019, global biofuel consumption expanded 5% on average per year, according 
to the IEA Although achieving the Net Zero Scenario’s 14% average annual growth between 2021 
and 2030 will require considerably stronger policies, similar expansion has been achieved in some 
countries and regions in the past. In fact, Europe, North America and several countries in Asia are 
considering or implementing policies that could accelerate biofuel demand.
BIOFUELS
financing for projects utilizing it. 
As with hydrogen, biofuels face 
competition for supply, largely from the 
transport sector, and to a lesser extent, 
for product manufacturing. Therefore, 
it’s important to develop gas turbine 
capabilities, so that many different fuels 
can be used. The operational profile of a 
gas turbine is already evolving along with 
increasing amounts of solar and wind 
entering the energy system. Gas turbine 
power plants are typically located closer 
to larger cities and can provide these 
cities with backup power using biofuels 
when renewable electricity supply is low 
or during times of peak demand. Electric 
power generation can even be varied in 
tandem with fluctuating power prices 
due to variable solar and wind power 
production patterns.  
BIOFUELS ARE DEMONSTRATING 
THEIR VALUE
The future lies with the flexible. CHPs, 
which have efficiencies above 90%, can 
utilize biogas or liquid biofuel to provide important flexibility in the electricity 
market while also producing heat. This 
might mean operating for slightly fewer 
hours a year than today, at which time, 
current biofuel availability is likely to be 
sufficient.  
Furthermore, by adding a thermal 
energy storage solution to the CHP plant, 
electricity production and heat supply 
can be uncoupled, enabling a more agile 
operational profile. This means that the 
generation of electricity can be varied to 
follow fluctuating power prices resulting 
from variable solar and wind power 
production patterns. 
For district heating and cooling 
applications, thermal storage may consist 
of relatively simple water tanks, which 
can provide storage system benefits to 
the energy system at a fraction of battery 
system costs. As it allows the CHP plant 
to participate in supplying ancillary grid 
services, it can deliver additional value to 
the plant operator as well as contribute 
to a reliable and well-functioning energy 
system.  SETTING AN EXAMPLE FOR GREEN AND 
FLEXIBLE POWER GENERATION
Gas turbines can also complement  
batteries. They can start up quickly,  
though not as fast as batteries. However, 
whenever the need arises, they have the 
advantage of continuing operations for 
far longer. In wind-dominated energy 
systems, gas turbines are very competitive 
in balancing renewables, since fluctuations 
are relatively few, irregular, and longer in 
duration.
There is a myriad of opportunities 
presented by biofuels for existing and 
new power plant operators. Given the 
expected growth in energy demand, and 
gas supply challenges made acute by recent 
geopolitical events, the low carbon energy 
system of the future needs access to a wide 
range of solutions – biofuels can be one of 
them. Siemens Energy, along with Göteborg 
Energi and Stockholm Exergi, will certainly 
continue to be at the forefront of driving 
energy transition efforts forward and 
setting an example for green and flexible 
power generation. ■
 
