FocusVenture_8_V24_RA_RZ  10.12.2007  11:35 Uhr  Seite 10
Clean power boost in Central Europe
One of the newest members of the EU, Slovenia, continues to invest in a multi-billion-euro modernization
program designed to meet its spiraling demand for energy. Siemens is installing two clean-burn, 
high-efficiency SGT-800 gas-turbine generating sets at the country’s largest power plant in Sostanj.Focus
November 2007  Venture 07Venture_8_V24_RA_RZ  10.12.2007  11:35 Uhr  Seite 11
energy supplier, with prices for gas and elec-
tricity being set by the supply companies instead
of the State. Direct investment by foreign 
companies is among the lowest in EU countries,
taxes remain high and industries are losing
sales to more competitive companies in Asia.
The country also has very limited primary 
energy resources of its own, importing virtuallyall its oil and gas by pipelines from Russia and
to some extent Algeria. However, it does haveproven reserves of low quality soft ‘brown 
coal’ or lignite amounting to some 190 million
tonnes, equivalent to around 50 years of production at present rates of consumption. 
Power under pressure
Although the general infrastructure through-
out Slovenia is excellent, its power industry is
coming under increasing strain. Slovenian gen-
erating facilities are split fairly evenly between
hydro, nuclear and thermal technologies. How-
ever, thermal power generation is based 
principally on mature, ‘brown coal’ lignite-firedRepublic, but also many long-established mem-
bers of the EU. The country’s diverse geography
boasts lakes, rivers and magnificent heavilyforested Alpine scenery with snowy peaks 
rising to more than 2,800 meters, together witha mixture of coastal Mediterranean and cont-inental climates. Combined with a rich cultural
heritage and vibrant artistic scene, the many
attractions of both its historic capital Ljubljana
and its picturesque towns and villages are 
making Slovenia an increasingly popular dest-ination for tourists.
National challenges
Despite Slovenia’s undoubted economic suc-
cess, the country faces a growing number of
challenges. A large proportion of its economy,
including the largest power utilities, remains
under state control, although privatizationprograms have been in operation for a number
of years. The very latest free-market legislation
passed by the government now allows domestic
consumers for the first time to choose their Focus
08  Venture November 2007Slovenia is a small Central European country
on the northernmost part of the Balkan Penin-
sula, with a total area of just 20,273 km2, only
slightly larger than the state of New Jersey in the
US, and a population of around two mil lion,
fewer than in Paris, France. An Alpine country
onthe Adriatic coast, it is bordered by Italy,
Austria, Hungary and Croatia. The most prosper-
ous region of the former Yugoslavia, the coun-try
won independence in 1991, transforming
its socialist economy to the capitalist free mar-
ket. Slovenia became the only former Yugoslavrepublic to be in the first wave of candidates for
membership of the European Union, joining
both the EU and NATO in 2004 and on January
1st 2007 becoming the first new EU member
state to join the eurozone. In the first half of
2008, Slovenia will take over the EU’s rotating
presidency. 
Slovenia is a booming region whose economicperformance has not only consistently outpaced
its neighbors from within the former Socialist
The Block-4 unit originally supplied by Siemens in 1972. Moored and ready for offloadingVenture_8_V24_RA_RZ  10.12.2007  11:35 Uhr  Seite 12
technology and the majority of the thermal
generating plants are either approaching or well
past their operational design life. As the basic
fuel burned in these power stations, lignite is
widely regarded as a ‘dirty’ form of coal with 
a relatively low heating value and can include
concentrations of up to three percent of elemen-
tal sulfur. In addition to significant quanti ties
of ash, particulates and nitrogen oxides (NOx),
the combustion process also produces high
levels of carbon dioxide. 
Slovenia’s burgeoning economic growth is
leading to an equally powerful demand for elec-
trical energy, the lifeblood of industrial ex-
pansion, with electricity demand growing at anannual rate of some three percent. Nonethe-less, a shortfall in domestic generating capacity
means the country has to import about 25 
percent of its annual power requirement. The
need to increase power production from exist -
ing facilities, coupled with the increasingly 
urgent requirement to bring emissions levelsfrom thermal power plants into line with 
statutory EU limits, has brought the need for
modernization and upgrades into sharp focus.
Major players
By far the largest thermal power generating
plant in Slovenia is located at Sostanj, a small
town around 90 km northeast of the capital
Ljubljana. Providing heat to a major part of thelocal district heating network in the adjacent
Velenje area, as well as exporting bulk electrical
power to the grid, the combined heat and 
power facility is rated at 745 MWe and 220 MWth
with a net capacity of 683 MW, producing anaverage of 3,600 Gigawatt hours (GWh) of elec-tricity and 450GWh of heat per year. This 
cogeneration facility is operated by Termoelek-
trarna Sostanj (TES), a wholly-owned oper-
ating subsidiary within the HSE group, a major
Slovenian state-owned organization with 
interests throughout power industry, both in its
home country and abroad. The largest power
facility in the HSE group’s portfolio, Sostanjcomprises five steam-turbine-based generating
units and two separate dedicated district heat-
ing boilers. Power Blocks 1 and 2 are each rated
at 27 MW, Block 3 is 68 MW, and the Siemens-
built Blocks 4 and 5 are rated at 252 MW and309 MW respectively. The plant suppliesaround one third of Slovenia’s total power re-
quirement and if necessary can meet more
than half of the national demand. Originally
designed for base load operation, the plant’s
efficiency is reduced visibly when the existing
generating units are required to operate more
flexibly under part load in response to fluctuat-
ing demand, a situation which will become an
even greater problem when the power market
becomes fully liberalized.
That sinking feeling
The boilers feeding the five steam turbogener-ators at the plant, as well as the two heatingboilers, are all fired on lignite from the nearby
Velenje mine and consume an annual total of
around 4,000,000 tonnes. Unlike the majorityFocus
November 2007  Venture 09
SGT-800 accessories being lifted from ship to shore The first of two SGT-800’s at its port of destination, Koper, Slovenia.Venture_8_V24_RA_RZ  10.12.2007  11:36 Uhr  Seite 13
Focus
10  Venture November 2007
Venture_8_V24_RA_RZ  10.12.2007  11:36 Uhr  Seite 14
Focus
November 2007  Venture 11of similar facilities which extract brown coal
from open-cast mines, fuel for the TES plant at
Sostanje is extracted at the Valenje pit by deep-
mining techniques. The billions of tonnes oflignite mined over many decades in the locality
using underground strip-mining has resulted
in extensive surface subsidence, although the
ground beneath the power plant itself remains
undisturbed. The stacks, cooling towers and
buildings at the plant, backed by a steep, dense-ly
wooded hillside, are reflected in the waters
of large lakes which front the site. The tranquil
appearance of the scene is deceptive, as thelakes are the direct consequence of the severeand obviously continuing ground subsi-
dence, with several houses and a church now
sub
merged in their depths.
Modernizing moves
Despite electrostatic precipitators and flue gas
desulfurization systems, atmospheric emissions
from the lignite-burning TES plant at Sostanj
remain high. Accordingly, the holding company
HSE is planning a 4-year program aimed atraising operating efficiency and environmentalperformance to conform to EU standards. At
the same time, the modernization and upgrade
program is also designed to increase both the
power output and the operational flexibility of
the Sostanj power plant to meet rising nation-
al demand. In 2005 Siemens was awarded a
turnkey contract to supply and build a com-pletely new cogeneration unit which would 
al
lowBlocks 1, 2 and 3 to be taken out of serv-
ice and boost the output of Block 5 by around 85
MW. The gas-turbine-based unit will be sup-
plied by a new natural-gas pipeline now nearing
completion, which will provide a connection tothe main pipeline importing gas from Russia.Construction of the new cross-country pipeline
has been a major project in its own right, requiring individual wayleave consents from
nearly 400 separate landowners. 
Clean green gas turbine technology
The new plant extension will be based on two
SGT-800 gas turbines which have been manu-
factured at the Siemens factory in Finspong,
Sweden, shipped to the Slovenian port of Koper,
offloaded and transported to Sostanj by road.
Each single-shaft SGT-800 has a 15-stage compressor and 3-stage axial flow turbine 
giving a rated output of 45 MW and a simple-
cycle efficiency of 37 percent. The industry-
proven, environmentally-friendly design incor-
porates an annular combustion chamber with
30 dual-fuel, DLE (dry low emissions) burners
producing less than 15 ppmv of NOx, less than 
5 ppmv of CO2and no measurable SOxwhen
fired on natural gas, but with the capability of
switching to No.2 distillate as a standby fuel if
gas supplies are interrupted. Representing thevery first modern-technology machines of theirkind to be used in Slovenia’s power industry,
th
e first of the two gas-turbine generator sets 
is currently being installed in the new build-
ing extension to the rear of the existing power
plant, where it will operate as a highly flexible
combined heat and power unit. Designed
around a rather unusual concept, the new unit
is indirectly coupled to the steam-cycle of 
the thermal plant. Heat from the gas turbine
exhaust is extracted by a heat-recovery steam
generator and used to pre-heat the boiler feed-
water for Block 5. First firing is scheduled totake place in April 2008, and the initial systemis due to start full commercial operation in
June. A second, identical SGT-800 cogeneratingunit will be installed subsequently, doubling
the electrical power output to provide an addi-
tional peak-power capability of around 84 MW
and providing feedwater heating for the exist-
ing Block 4. 
Fully flexible for the future
Having now reached the ripe old age of 35 years
and with around 300,000 operating hours to its credit, the existing Block 4 steam turbo-generator, originally supplied and installed by
Siemens in 1972, will ultimately be shut down
and held in reserve, allowing both new SGT-
800 gas turbines to provide feedwater heating
for Block 5. This will allow both existing pre-
heaters to be shut down, eliminating the need
to extract steam from the steam turbine and
raising efficiency still further. As well as pro-
viding a massive 3.6 percent improvement in overall thermal efficiency and highly flexibleoperation as a peak-lopping plant, the new 
low-emissions natural-gas fuelled unit will 
reduce the thermal plant’s lignite consumption 
by as much as 11 percent, thus cutting all emis-
sions very significantly, including a reduction
of CO2approaching 18 percent. As part of the
overall project, Siemens is supplying and in-
tegrating all the controls as well as the ancillary
systems for both the thermal plant and the 
new SGT-800 installation. With a close businessrelationship extending over nearly 40 years,
Siemens and TES are together continuing to 
ensure the security of economic power supplies
to meet future growth in Slovenia, with the 
application of modern, “clean green” energy 
technologies.Venture_8_V24_RA_RZ  10.12.2007  11:36 Uhr  Seite 15
Faces
12  Venture November 2007Venture_8_V24_RA_RZ  10.12.2007  11:36 Uhr  Seite 16
Venture: Matjaz, the power station at Sostanj has obviously been here for quite some years, so can you give a brief outline of its devel opment?
MD: Even before a power station was built on this site, electricity was being produced from a nearby facility as
long ago as 1929. With an output of just 2 MW, this plant supplied the whole of the Velenje area. New equip-
ment was added in 1939, increasing the output to 5 MW. With power demand rising rapidly after World War II,
in 1952 a new lignite-fired thermal power plant was built here on the present site comprising two 30-MW 
power blocks; a third one with 75 MW was added in 1960. In 1972 a new Siemens steam turbogenerator with
an output of 275 MW was commissioned and this is still in use today as Block 4. Five years later a secondSiemens-built unit rated at 345 MW was added, giving us the present Block 5.
Venture: So business dealings between TES and Siemens stretch back for around 35 years, but how would you describe the present relations hip
between the two companies?
MD: Well, for my part I would say that we operate in an excellent partnership, recognizing each others’
strengths and using them to agree on solutions to problems as and when they appear. Ales Presern, the man-ager of the Siemens PG office in Ljubljana and one of our principal contacts here on this site has described the relationship as being “as good as it gets” and I can certainly go along with that.
Venture: You obviously have a really good working relationship, but surely that can’t be the only reason for choosing Siemens as the sup plier for
this current project?
MD: Of course not, Siemens was up against some stiff competition, but past experience gave us a good degree
of confidence in Siemens’ ability to meet our needs, both in terms of price and engineering technology. In fact 
the SGT-800 turbines were an exact match for our requirements, particularly with regard to their exhaust tem-perature, as it was absolutely critical that this should provide an alternative heat source for pre-heating theboiler feedwater.
Venture: And how is the project actually proceeding?
MD: Well, the civil works are nearing completion, the first gas turbine has arrived and the installation and
erection is on track. The heat-recovery steam generator is being supplied by a manufacturer from the Slovak
Republic and is almost finished, and the gas pipeline is nearing completion, so all in all, everything is on
schedule.
Venture: And what about specific problems you have encountered — there must have been a few headaches?
MD: Naturally there are always problems to be ov ercome, but so far at least, this project has gone very
smoothly. I suppose our biggest headache has been finding enough room to expand on this site. As you have
seen, the existing generating blocks are squeezed between the Velenje mine workings at one end of the site
and the town of Sostanj at the other, with a main road and large lakes forming a boundary to the front and 
a high and very steep hillside immediately behind us. The only way we could find the space to build the new 
extension was by excavating part of the hillside and constructing the buildings in this area.
Venture: And what about your plans for the future?
MD: Of course, we fully intend to maintain our leading position as Slovenia’s biggest power generating com-
pany and technical innovator, but we are also looking at expanding our operation at Sostanj still further. This
will almost certainly involve demolishing some of our older existing facilities and building a completely new
power block, so all I can say at this time is “watch this space!”Partners in power
Matjaz Dvorsek, Project Manager at the TES power plant, is enthusiastic about his new ‘baby’
and was happy to take time out to give VENTURE some interesting insights into both the existingplant and the new project.Faces
November 2007  Venture 13
Venture_8_V24_RA_RZ.qxd  12.12.2007  10:53 Uhr  Seite 17