Living Energy · No.  10 | Ma y 2014  23 22 Living Ener gy · No.  10 | Ma y 2014 
Thailand’s industrial success is 
fueled by decentralized energy generation, which in turn relies on Siemens’ SGT
­
800 gas tur ­
bines. In addition to electronics, the frozen food industry is a key
 
energy 
 consumer wit
h its 
 insatiable need f
or ice.
Text: Clark Shimazu  Photos: Hans SautterThe Energy Cycle  
that  P owers   
Thailand’s Economy
Living Energy · No.  10 | Ma y 2014  25 24 Living Ener gy · No.  10 | Ma y 2014 Cogeneration Plants xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
ver the past two decades, the 
Amata industrial zones in Thai­land have served as the model 
for the country’s industrial transfor ­
mation from exporter of raw materials and food products into world
­
class 
supplier of machinery, consumer elec­tronics and high
­
tech components. 
The rapid modernization is based on a single factor: natural gas reserves in the Gulf of Thailand. The discovery of high
­
quality methane under the sea­
bed in the late 1970s led to the opening of new gas
­
fired power plants, a trend 
that continues to this day. The latest is the Amata B.Grimm facili­ty in the Amata City Industrial Estate in Rayong, some 150 kilometers south­east of the capital Bangkok. Here, two combined cycle cogeneration power 
“The smaller and highly efficient Siemens turbines, installed in paral­
lel units, enable us to shut down one 
set during off ­peak hours, reduc­
ing losses,
” he explains. “The other 
benefit is that we can scale up power output from other units whenever the grid suffers a blackout so that our customers’ factories can continue without outage.”“Siemens turbines also have the best performance in reducing NO
X (nitro­
gen oxide) emissions – lower than government regulations and even less than our own, stricter targets,” he adds. “This is important for obtaining regulatory approval for new power plants, because many communities are concerned about the impact of air pollution on health.”“ W e don’t have waste 
heat here.” 
Cherdchai Yiwlek, Engineer, Amata B.GrimmO
plants, equipped with four Siemens gas turbines, sparkle in the tropical sunlight. A first impression of the 
 lab
yrinth of tubes, steel towers and 
steam
­
spewing safety valves is of vast 
metalwork as iconic as a Baroque
­
era 
pipe organ, even if the music is a 
 cacophon
y of buzzing, rattling and 
clanging. At the center of this temple to progress stands Cherdchai Yiwlek, the engineer who supervised the con­struction of three Siemens
­
equipped 
plants for Amata B.Grimm. Standing tall, engineer Cherdchai points at a pipe that emerges from be­neath the ground. “This is where the gas comes into our plant.” Just meters behind him, the water that surrounds gas shipments is drained, and then the methane branches out into feeder lines for the two combined cycle cogenera­tion plants, which each contain a pair of Siemens SGT
­
800 gas turbines with 
50 megawatts output, and one SST ­
400 
steam turbine.
Cogeneration Concept
“The exhaust heat from the gas tur ­
bine is routed into a heat recovery steam generator unit to use the ther ­
mal energy for steam production to 
rotate an SST ­ 400 steam turbine, which  
adds another 40 megawatts of electri­cal power to our output. Finally, the leftover steam is sent down a fat pipe to a nearby factory.” The heat is used to
 
melt and mold material for indus­
trial products. “We don’t have waste heat here,” Cherdchai exclaims. “For us, steam is money.”The reuse of heat exhaust from a gas turbine, which otherwise would be lost up a chimney, is the basis for cogene­ration. Using steam generated by the hot
­
gas turbine exhaust gases to heat 
buildings is becoming more prevalent across the cold climes of Europe and North America. Tropical Asia has yet to take the next leap of logic of using en­
ergy from “waste” heat to run indoor air 
coolers, which is technically feasi­
ble with existing technology.Cogeneration boosts fuel efficiency, the foremost priority on Cherdchai’s mental list. This is because the price of gas is rising faster than electricity tariffs, putting profit margins under pressure. As is the case with most privately held 
small power producers, Amata   
 B.Gr
imm Power usually operates in­
side an industrial park in need of on
­
site energy supply. Being close to the
 end user cuts long ­distance trans­
mission losses. Cher
dchai adds that 
surplus power can be sold under con­tract to the national grid distributor Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT). Most of that power remains inside the booming export
­
oriented economy of Rayong province, 
southeast of Bangkok. 
Speed Depends on Teamwork
Preeyanart Soontornwata, President of the Amata B.Grimm Power Group, the leading small power producer in Thai­land, is exceptional for an 
 e
xecutive in Water drips from the ice blocks produced at the ice factory in Rayong, one of the businesses supplied with energy 
from the Amata B.Grimm facility.
u
Living Energy · No.  10 | Ma y 2014  27 26 Living Ener gy · No.  10 | Ma y 2014 
“ Our ma jor concerns  
are efficiency and the 
environment.” 
Preeyanart Soontornwata,  
President, Amata B.Grimm Power GroupCogeneration Plants
Shaping Thailand for over a Century
“ M y grandfather came  
to Bangkok in 1903 to join  
B.Grimm.” 
Harald Link, CEO B.Grimm GroupB.Grimm was founded in 1878 as Bangkok’s first pharmacy 
by
 
Bernard Grimm and his associate, Erwin Müller, and quickly 
took on every challenge thrown its way – from importing earthmovers to operating a telegraph system supplied by a company called Siemens. With the royal support of modern-izing ruler Rama V, B.Grimm enjoyed fortuitous beginnings, and is today not only the longest-running German business, but also the 
 oldes
t private company in Thailand.
After the halcyon days of old Siam, things haven’t been so easy, says Harald Link, CEO of the present-day B.Grimm Group. “My grandfather Adolf Link, a pharmacist from Lübeck, came 
to Bangkok in 1903 to join B.Grimm.” He famously imported tele -
phone  equipment and arranged the first call between Thai-
land and Germany. The outbreak of World War I, however, saw 
the Link family detained in a prison camp in India. Still believing 
in Thailand, Adolf Link returned in 1920 to start over – only to 
be caught up in the disastrous events of World War II. 
After the war the family-owned business slowly reemerged and 
on a visit to Thailand in 1978, a century after the founding of B.Grimm, grandson Harald discovered for himself the magic of this tropical realm. At the time the Thai economy was lifting 
off on a continuous growth curve. The company’s greatest works 
have since included the construction of the Bangkok SkyTrain system (BTS), together with Siemens, and the Metro (MRT).In the late 1990s, the company formed its Amata B.Grimm Power Group. “The first power plant was difficult because we built it during the worst year of the Asian financial crisis, 1998,” recalls Link. B.Grimm has since diversified into air-conditioning and refrigeration systems, as well as transportation, health-care and infrastructural projects. On a lesser scale, B.Grimm also entered a joint venture to assemble the ubiquitous tuk-tuks, the three-wheeler taxis that symbolize Thailand. Tourists and locals may not realize it, but the bustling Bangkok they know has been and remains a work in progress of B.Grimm.
Four SGT-800 gas turbines and two SST-400 steam turbines at the new combined cycle power plant in Rayong’s 
Amata City Industrial Estate create power for regional economic development.the energy industry. Unlike most of 
her male counterparts, she is not an 
engineer or geologist but a financial 
expert, with an MBA in finance from 
top
­
ranked Chulalongkorn University. 
Rising to the top from her position as chief financial officer, her priorities are
 
centered on fiscal soundness, detailed research and team building, which are 
all vital during this phase of rapid 
growth for the private ­run small power 
pr
oducer sector. 
“Whenever we invest in a new project, our team studies every aspect in deep  de
tail. Our major concerns are efficien ­
cy and the environment, which are de ­
cisive for revenues and our customers a
s well as for gaining regulatory ap ­
proval for a new plant,” she explains. “
Our choice has been the 50
­
megawatt 
version of the Siemens SGT ­
800 for 
overall quality and greatest efficiency.”Under her helm, Amata B.Grimm has 16
 
power plants on the registry, 6 of 
them already operating and 4 under construction. She has no intention of slowing down. “Over the next five years, our combined output is targeted to 
uCogeneration Plants
The power produced from fire and steam in the cogeneration plant is used at the ice factory in Rayong to freeze water. The large blocks of ice are crushed and transported to the port to cool seafood, preparing it for export. 

Living Energy · No.  10 | Ma y 2014  31 30 Living Ener gy · No.  10 | Ma y 2014 
rise from 2,000 to 5,000 megawatts,” 
she discloses. “Some of that increase will be based in neighboring countries, a trend being pushed by the ASEAN group’s plan for a new Asian Economic Community that launches on January 1, 2015.”
Above all, Preeyanart is renowned for her financial wizardry. In 2013, Amata B.Grimm Power issued an infrastruc­ture fund on the Bangkok stock ex­change, structured much like a corpo­rate bond, which enabled investors 
to in vest in a specific power plant in 
 return for dividends. The innovative fundraising method, only the second of its type after the fund for construc­tion of the Bangkok SkyTrain system, eliminates the higher financing cost 
of private equity. After the first was over ­
subscribed by local investors, B.Grimm 
now has the confidence to push ahead boldly with its plant 
 e
xpansion drive.
Ceaseless Growth of  Demand
Energy expert Praipol Koomsup watch­
es female workers gracefully gliding 
gigantic blocks of ice onto a truck, as 
if their task were a Winter Olympics 
sport. These translucent monoliths are  
produced by humming compressors under the floorboards of a huge open factory. “Just one of these family
­
run 
ice houses consumes vast amounts of electrical power,” notes the Professor 
of Energy Economics at the prestigious  
Thammasat University. “In tropical societies like Thailand,” he says, “the difference between the modern era 
and the past can be summarized in one  
word: ice.”
Across lands that have never seen snow or frost, the cool trio of ice
­
making, re ­
frigeration and air ­ conditioning – the 
rarest of luxuries just a generation ago  – 
have since become a basic necessity for nutritious diets, a comfortable exis ­
tence and sustained economic growth.
The destination of these oversized cubes is Rayong Lagoon, where 
 f
isher  men cr
ush ice to preserve the 
freshness of their daily catch of squid, mackerel, anchovies and bream. At the teeming harbor with its hundreds of colorful wooden trawlers, gangs of
 w
orkers unload and sort varieties 
of fish for different markets, local and
 
foreign. Scoops of crushed ice, Engineer Cherdchai Yiwlek supervised the construction of the plant.  
His prime concern: fuel efficiency.
The SGT-800 gas turbine is the centerpiece of the power plant, ensuring highest 
efficiency and lower emissions.
Cogeneration Plants
Thailand
  Cogeneration Optimizes Gas Resources
Since 2010 , Siemens obtained orders from Thailand for more than  
40 SGT-800 gas turbines. Around 20 of these turbines have already gone  
into commercial operation. 
The fuel flexibility of the SGT-800 is outstanding: It can operate on gas from  
the Gulf of Thailand, the low-calorific gas from the Andaman Sea, as well as on 
diesel, with on-load switchover between fuels.
By combining the SGT-800  industrial gas turbine – available with  r atings of 
47.5 MW  and 50.5 MW  – with the SST-400  steam turbine, maximum fuel 
efficiency is achieved.The cogeneration process recovers heat exhaust for the steam-driven turbine, 
and reuses steam power for industrial purposes. In combined cycle operations the performance of the SGT-800 is best in class  
for
 
its size. All SGT-800 units are equipped with a DLE combustion 
 sy
stem to 
 minimize NO X and CO 2 emissions.
Higher efficiency and lower emissions are convincing national regulators in 
 Thailand t
o approve ever more privately operated small power plants.The catch of the day at Rayong Lagoon is immediately cooled with 
crushed ice from the nearby factory. glittering like diamonds, are tossed 
on boxes of mackerel aboard a truck headed to a gigantic frozen seafood processing plant at the Amata City In­dustrial Estate. “Traditionally, small fry like anchovies were sun
­
dried and made into fish 
sauce, which is used in Thai cuisine,” Praipol explains. “The introduction of ice
­
making and refrigeration, howev ­
er, enabled Thailand to become one of
 
the world’s largest exporters of sea­
food products.” At its peak, seafood comprised about a third of the 
 nation
’s exports, earning the hard 
currency that funded Thailand’s 
 indus
trial growth. Now surpassed by 
high
­
value automobiles and electron­
ics, seafood still garners about 8 per ­
cent of the nation’s export income.
Power from under the Sea
In the faint light of dawn, Praipol 
stands aboard one of the trawlers bobbing on the waves. “About 70 per ­
cent of electrical power in Thailand is
 
generated by gas
­
fired plants, 
which is a huge share compared with most countries.”
“The energy cycle begins here, in 
the Gulf of Thailand. An undersea 
pipeline carries the natural gas to 
the huge gas separation complex on 
 R
ayong Point, where heavier compo­
nents used for plastics and the chemi­cal industry are extracted, leaving the
 
lighter methane as a fuel for vehi­
cles, cooking stoves and power plants,”  
he states. “The separated gas is then moved 
through an underground pipeline 
over a distance of 70 kilometers to electricity generators in Amata. The energy flow returns to the coast along high
­
voltage lines to power the fish­
ing fleets and seafood industry,” 
Praipol explains. “A  new and larger 
cy
cle then begins with the export of 
products to the global economy. Hard currencies come back in the other 
 dir
ection, driving Southeast Asia’s 
rapid development.”His thoughts on energy and econom­
ics thus take a philosophical turn, in u

Living Energy · No.  10 | Ma y 2014  33 32 Living Ener gy · No.  10 | Ma y 2014 
Frozen seafood still accounts for 8 percent of Thailand’s exports. The brightly colored fishing boats in Rayong Lagoon leave the  
port at night, hoping for a good catch.
Thailand-based Clark Shimazu writes about 
 science and en
vironment issues for the South 
China Morning Post, Yazhou Zhoukan magazine 
and New America Media in San Francisco as 
well as several online media outlets. “ Fuel efficiency is mor e 
important than ever.” 
Praipol Koomsup, Professor of Energy Economics,  
Thammasat University
a ballet ­like pas de deux of sea and 
land, pr
oducer and consumer, heat 
and cold, yin and yang, fire and ice.
The New Asian Community
This energy cycle, uniting the regional 
and the global, knows no boundaries. 
Even before next year’s official declara­
tion of a new ASEAN Economic Com­
munity (AEC), a free trade zone of ten 
member states, Thailand’s energy 
 sect
or is already interconnected with 
its neighbors. Andaman Sea gas ship­ments and coal
­
fired electricity arrive 
from Myanmar, and Thailand is in­volved in joint oil
­
and
­
gas develop­
ment with Malaysia. Thai power plants supply electricity to parts of Myanmar, Laos and Cambodia. The regional pact is arriving just in 
the nick of time for the Thai power 
 industry. “The gas reserves of the 
Gulf  of Thailand are not infinite so new  
 e
xploration and joint production 
agreements need to be worked out 
with Cambodia, Myanmar and 
 Vietnam,” Praipol warns. “Output here
 
is expected to decline within 10 to 
15 years from 
 
now. That makes fuel 
 ef
ficiency more important than ever.”
“The advent of AEC will accelerate 
 po
wer consumption, due to rising 
prosperity and industrial growth, so averting energy shortages is an im­
portant priority,” Praipol asserts. “With all the world’s equipment sup­pliers and power producers gearing up
 
for the onset of AEC, the winners 
will be whoever can burn gas with greater efficiency and guarantee per ­
formance over a longer lifetime.” The
 
race is on.
 p
 Living Energy at siemens.com/living-energy/
fire-and-ice
Learn about the cycle of heat and ice in the Rayong region as filmmaker 
 Dis
spong Sampattavanich follows energy expert Praipol Koomsup for one day.Powering Thailand’s RegionsCogeneration Plants