 
Technical Information Package SCC-800 | SeaFloat | 2021     1 
  SeaFloat SCC -800  
Technical Solution Information  
©Siemens Energy 202 2 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens 
AG 
www.siemens -energy.com/seafloat  
 
 
Technical Information Package SCC-800 | SeaFloat | 2021     2   
Our reference project Estrella del Mar III  
A hybrid power plant solution (SCC -800 2x1) with integrated battery energy storage . 
 
Unrestricted  
  
SeaFloat  fully integrated solution with up to 180.000 m³ LNG storage, LNG regasification and combined cycle 
power plant scalable up to 300MW  
The fully integrated  New Build  SeaFloat  solution allows to provide clean and affordable power to locations without access to fuel.  
Installation of land -based  LNG terminals are not necessary anymore.  
 
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    4 
3 Export Streams  with conversion of old assets  
 
The conversion of existing assets to a SeaFloat FSRP solution bring s CAPEX savings, together with low fuel consumption from high effi cient 
equipment, low operational costs and the three export streams provide an attractive  and flexible  business case  to our  customers     
  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    5 
 
SeaFloat SCC -800 barge solution complemented with LNG infrastructure  
SeaFloat SCC-800 
Options:  
Fuel:  from 
shore  or 
LNGC+FSRU  
Scalable in power output for industrial application, 
development of remote areas, or prime locations.  
Also available as Jack -up platform.  
 High efficient GT based CCPP  with > 4%pts better 
efficiency to reciprocating engines  in Combined Cycle 
and > 8% compared to open cycle or aged assets.  
Emissions compared to reciprocating engines  
~ 50% Lower CO2 Emissions  
~ 90% Lower NOx/ CO/ nmHC Emissions  
with related impact on project financing/tax  
  Fuel supply from shore or via separate FSRU possible – 
alternatively with FSRP concept  
Commercial saving:  
 - up to 25% better LCoE than reciprocating engines  
 - up to 20% better LCoE than land based* solutions  • * depending on project bounda ries e.g. brownfield sites, remote areas  
• LCoE: Levelized Cost of Electricity  
• FSRP: Floating Storage Regasification and Power  
• nmHC: non methane hydrocarbones  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    6 Outstanding performance available in SeaFloat application  
With a proven, long -term track record of more than 7 million Equivalent 
Operating Hours (EOH) from over 410 successfully installed units all over the 
world, the SGT -800 gas turbine is an excellent choice for both, industrial power 
generation as well as oil and gas applications. It will meet your deman d for 
excellent performance, efficiency, reliability, and environmental compatibility 
at low lifecycle costs and the best possible return on investment. The SGT -800 
will complement your combined cycle and cogeneration installations with its 
excellent effic iency. Designed for flexible operation, it is perfectly suited for 
base and intermediate load as well as grid support. With SeaFloat, all proven 
and well -known benefits are now available also on floating platforms.  
The SGT -800 industrial gas turbine offers broad flexibility in fuels, operating 
conditions, maintenance concepts, package solutions, and ratings.  
The high degree of modularization and delivery of pre -assembled and pre -
tested plant modules minimizes both the manpower require d at a construction 
yard and the hook up time at place of operation.  
The plant equipment is intended for on board installation based on 
international codes and standards for power plants. Adaptions are 
implemented to suit the marine environment with respect to, but not limited to, air intake filters, materials, surface trea tments, and protection against 
water ingress and corrosion. Movements and deflection are addressed by 
technical modifications, if necessary.  
Our SGT -800, integrated into the combined cycle, can also be designed as full 
integrated solution with a floating s torage regasification power ship (FSRP) for 
LNG, as well as a gravity -based  solution (GBS) like e.g. jack up platforms or 
other fixed platform types.  
The combined cycle power plant provides highly efficient power output 
starting from 150MW and can be scale d up in 75MW steps, depending on the 
plant configuration.  
 
Key benefits of SGT 800  
• 300MW (e) power output for a 4x1 combined cycle application  
• >56% combined cycle efficiency  
• More than 410 units sold  
• More than 7 million fleet hours  
• High reliability and availability  
• Low lifecycle costs  
• Robust dual -fuel (gas / liquid) DLE combustion system  
• On-load fuel changeover capability  
• Capable of single -digit N Ox 
• Dual frequency & excellent fuel flexibility LNG, LPG, NG, ethane, 
propane   
• Future fit: capable of burning up to 75% hydrogen  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    7 
 
 
 
 
Figure: Typical Single -lift Package with SGT -800
SGT -800: 22.0m x 4.7 m x 5.3 m (length, width, height)  
SeaFloat SGT -800 Gas Turbine  
The SGT -800 gas turbines (GT) will be 
provided as a single lift package and 3 -
point mount installation, consisting of 
turbine, mechanical auxiliary systems, gear 
box, generator, and generator switch gear. 
This concept allows fast and easy 
installation at s hipyards and is designed to 
withstand nearshore conditions. The 
single lift package has a weight of approx. 
295t and is pre -assembled and system 
tested with dedicated electrical and 
control module. Optional factory 
performance testing can be conducted 
upon  customer’s request. The air intake 
filter house has a weight of approx. 20t and 
the weight of the GT enclosure ventilation 
system is approx. 10t.  
The single lift package concept enables 48h 
core engine exchange for plants with the 
highest requirements on availability. The 
easy “roll out” capability of the gas turbine 
core engine enables onboard maintenance 
and overhaul. On the core engine “roll out 
trolley” the core turbine is moved to the 
on-board overhaul area of approx. 175m2 
where an 8 -ton gantry crane  is used for 
turbine inspections/ overhauls. Hot Gas 
Path Inspection (HGI) and Major Overhaul 
(MO) are conducted at every 30/60 
thousand Equivalent Operating Hours 
(EOH).   
 
 
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    8 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
SST-600: 25.2 m x 7.0 m x 5.5 m (length, width, height)  
tons  
475t 
 
SeaFloat S ST-600 Steam  Turbine  
The well proven SST -600 steam turbine 
(ST) will be provided as a pre -assembled 
and system tested single lift package on a 
3-point mount base frame. It has a weight 
of approx. 475t  in 2x1 configuration . The 
steam turbine single lift package consists 
of steam turbine, condenser with 
evacuation systems, generator, and 
generator switch gear. The turbine is 
directly coupled to the generator on the 
admission and has an axial steam ex haust.  
Siemens Energy in -house once through 
steam generator is utilized, ensuring all 
major components of the combined cycle 
power plant are provided from one source, 
allowing optimized design coordination.  
Planned preventive maintenance is done 
onboard. T he Steam turbine  area is 
covered by a building and includes a 
gantry crane with capacity for the various 
inspection activities . 
 
 
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    9 
SeaFloat OTSG 
The Once Through Steam Generator 
(OTSG) will be provided as a package with 
maximum modularization. This modular 
approach has been applied in dozens of 
units worldwide and results in safer and 
better -quality fabrication under opti -
mized shop conditions. The arrangement 
enhances faster and smo other installation 
at the shipyard. The steel structure for the 
OTSGs is designed as one combined block . 
In this way  a rigid structure is formed to 
withstand marine environment condi -
tions and to minimize the footprint 
dimensions.  
The OTSG is based on Siem ens Energy 
Benson Technology which incorporates a 
steam separator in the HP section of the 
boiler. With over fifty proven references 
globally, the steam separator provides 
power plants a secure start -up operation. 
The OTSG is of a robust design requiring 
low maintenance and inspections which 
can conveniently be performed during 
gas turbine inspections and overhauls.  
 
Each  OTSG package has a weight of 
approx. 233t. 
 
  
Piping  
Steel structure  Exhaust stack  
Heat exchanger  
OTSGs: 12 m x 19 m x 2 4 m (length, width, height)   
tons  
233t 
 
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    10 Footprint, main machinery  
SCC -800 2 x1 
2 x GTs, 2  x OTSGs, 1  x ST with condenser, N+1 feed water pumps, feed water 
treatment system, steam and feed water dosing and sampling system, 2  x gas 
fuel preheaters, 2  x GT I&C control containers, 1  x ST l&C container, 1  x GT 
main two -winding generator transformer, 1  x main transformer ST/GT, HV GIS 
switchgear  (can also be located on shore)  
 
The number of equipment will be multiplied accordingly for a SCC -800 
3x1 or 4x1 configuration  
 
  
Configuration  Typical deck space 
requirement  Weight  
SCC -800 2x1  ~80x3 8m ~3000t  
SCC -800 3x1  ~95x3 8m ~4100t  
SCC -800 4x1  ~115x38m or different 
depending on arrangement  ~5300t  
Weights of main equipment  for a SCC -800 
2x1 configuration  
- GTs, 295 tons each  
- Gas fuel preheaters, 8 tons each  
- ST with condenser, 475 tons  
- I&C modules, 35 tons each  
- OTSGs, 466  tons  
- Steam cycle auxiliaries, 50 tons  
- Main transformers, 1 x 130 tons, 1 x 120 tons  
- HV GIS switchgear, 20 tons  
- Aux transformers and switchgears, 90 tons  
- DCS & 110VDC UPS systems, < 5 tons  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    11 Main features and performance information  
- High GT reliability of 99.5%  
- High GT availability of 98.7% with core engine exchange in 48 hours  
- All maintenance possible on board  
- High efficiency, refer to below table  
- Dry Low Emissions (DLE)  
- Low water consumption for steam cycle make up, minimal water treatment 
plant on board  
- Design for roll & pitch, ≤3 degrees  
- Less emissions (e.g. COi, NOx,  unburned hydrocarbons,  Noise)  
- High grid stability through large inertia/ rotating mass  
- Low auxiliary consumption  
- Longer maintenance intervals over the entire plant lifetime  of 25 years  
- High power density requiring less space on the barge  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Configuration  2x1  3x1  4x1  
Gross Power output*  ~147  MW(e)  ~221 MW(e)  ~297 MW(e)  
Gross  plant efficiency*  ~56% ~56% ~56%  
Number of SGT -800  2 3 4 
Steam turbine model  SST-600  SST-600  SST-600  
Fuel gas consumption  ~5.7 kg/s  ~8.5 kg/s  ~11.3 kg/s  
Table: Typical Performance values    
- Emissions, NOx [ppmV / 
mg/Nm3]  - <25 / 51.3 @ 15% O2 (>50% GT load)  
- Emissions, CO [ppmV / 
mg/Nm3]  - <5 / 6.3 @ 15% O2 (>50% GT load)  
- Installed performance at:  
- 25°C ambient air temperature  
- 25°C sea water temperature  
- 60% relative humidity  
- *) Gas fuel supply 30 Bar(a), 25ºC, 48.6 MJ/kg LHV (Siemens Energy standard 
gas composition).  
 
Table: Typical Performance values  

 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    12 SGT -800 based plants provide high combined cycle plant efficiency, even at 
part load operation, due to the unique part load control algorithm of the SGT -
800. Dry low -NOx single or dual fuel burners ensure low NOx emissions 
without need of water injection.  
 
Automation and control  
A high degree of automation and control with a fully automatized start -up and 
shut -down procedure provide s an efficient and safe operation of the plant 
from an onboard control room as well as from a remote location , such as  a load 
dispatch center.  
Optimized operator and engineering environment s have been considered with 
a large flexibility for localization in  various operations rooms onboard the 
vessel/barge. Interfaces are available for any dedicated automation or control 
systems onboard by means of OPC interface to superimposed systems, SCADA 
etc.  
Data logging, compression , and storage into history database  servers ensure 
the evaluat ion of events and performance over time including a valuable 
feature for maintenance planning. Connection to Siemens  Energy  service 
centers for operations support and various services can be provided as part of 
service contracts.  
 
Typical project details  
A typical project is characterized as a floating or fixed offshore  power 
generation installation near to shore or moored to a jetty close to an electrical 
substation for import of the generated power via cable or overhead lines . 
Basic design support from Siemens  Energy : 
The combined cycle power plant (CCPP) equipment is installed onboard the 
vessel/barge with gas & steam turbine packages, OTSGs, main transformers, 
HV switchgear and electrical and control equipment modules for turbines. Siemens  Energy  provides generic 2D/3D models as guidance towards an 
optimal layout.  
The power plant is equipped with a highly compact  and highly reliable Gas 
Insulated Switchgear (GIS), two incomers (2x1 & 3x1, three incomers for 4x1) 
from the generator transformers and one export feeder breaker for either 
cable or overhead line connection to an onshore tie in point.  
Main Generator Circ uit Breakers (GCB) for the gas and steam turbine 
generators are installed on the base frames of the turbine generator sets for 
2x1, hence no separate generator switchgear structures are required.  
Auxiliary power required for plant operation is derived from  the auxiliary 
transformers. To keep the plant energized at plant stand still and for starting 
of the GTs, power is supplied from the HV grid via the main generator step up 
transformers. An optional onboard black start generator enables the start of 
the GT s even if the grid ha s fallen black. Such black start generator s are 
typically part of the onboard utilities and not part of Siemens  Energy  scope.  
Steam cycle auxiliaries, MV and LV switchboards, protection and DCS panels 
for the power plant are to be mou nted onboard in dedicated equipment rooms.  
The operation of the CCPP is based on the exhaust heat from the gas turbines 
without duct firing and without water injection for power augmentation. The 
robust Siemens  Energy  standard DLE combustion system does no t require 
water injection to meet the required low NOx emission levels, by this keeping 
the capacity of the water treatment plant low, which benefits the on -board 
layout.  
The plant is intended for operation on gaseous fuel. Back -up operation with 
liquid f uel is available as an option.  
An additional option is to equip the gas turbines with heat exchangers 
(glycol/water to air) in front of the gas turbine air intakes. In this arrangement , 
the inherent heat of the air assists vaporizing the LNG flow to the g as turbine. 
In turn, the air is cooled down which, in consequence, results in higher base 
load power output.  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    13 The regasification plant can also be designed not only for providing LNG to the 
gas turbines but to provide excess re -gasified LNG for other purposes, such as 
to the onshore gas grid . The use of low -grade heat from the steam turbine 
condenser for re -gasification is an efficient option. This arrangement can  
increase the overall plant efficiency up to almost 90%.  
The power plant consists mainly of the gas turbines, the OTSGs, and one 
condensing type steam turbine with a sea water cooled condenser. All as per 
Siemens  Energy  “Standard Reference Plant” (SRP) design for SCC -800 
combined cycle installations. For further  details please refer to scope of supply 
and performance information below. In case of restricted cooling water 
availability the steam turbine exhaust can also be cooled via an air cooled 
condenser.  
 
Overview of Siemens  Energy  scope  
- Basic engineering for full power plant functionality and guaranteed 
performance  
- SGT -800 gas turbine packages on common base frame with 3 -point 
mount, water -cooled lube oil and generator coolers  
- Electrical and control module with all electrical and I&C equipment 
for the GTG  
- Generator (GCB) and auxiliary power circuit breakers (ACB) as part 
of the GTG skid  
- All equipment prefabricated and pretested  
- One  OTSGs  per gas turbine   
- Steam cycle auxiliaries, redundant feed water polishers, sampling and 
dosing equipment, redu ndant evacuation systems, N+1 feed water 
pumps  
- One SST -600 condensing steam turbine on 3 -point mount with axial 
steam exhaust, directly mounted condenser with enlarged hotwell, fresh 
water -cooled lube , and  generator coolers  
- Electrical and control module in cluding all electrical and I&C 
equipment for the STG  - Generator GCB and auxiliary power circuit breakers as part of the 
STG skid  
- All equipment prefabricated and pre -tested  
- Main step -up transformers in three winding designs  for GT/ST 
combination, complete w ith protection relay system and on -load tap 
changer for ratio control on HV side , freshwater  cooling, OFWF  
- Main step -up transformer of two winding design for one GT, complete 
with protection relay system and on -load tap changer for ratio control 
on HV sid e, freshwater cooling, OFWF  
- Single busbar gas insulated HV switchgear (GIS), two incomers from 
generator transformers, one outgoing export feeder (option two 
feeders) for cable or overhead line to shore, complete with protection 
and automations system integrated with plant DCS system  
- Naturally air -cooled epoxy insulated 7  MVA auxiliary power 
transformers, 11 or 13 .8/ 6 .3 or 4 .16 kV for 50/60 Hz systems, for 
mounting in transformer/switchgear room on board (11/13 .8 kV supply 
from HV shore connecti on, starting power via main generator 
transformers and Auxiliary Circuit Breakers (ACB) on GTG skid)  
- Naturally air -cooled epoxy insulated 3 MVA 6 .3 or 4 .16/0 .69 kV 
auxiliary power transformers for mounting in transformer/switchgear 
room onboard  
- 0.69 kV sw itchgear for auxiliary power distribution to CCPP consumers. 
Feeders for N+1 configuration of condenser cooling water pumps. 
Pumps and motors supplied by the yard. Naturally air -cooled epoxy 
insulated 1 MVA 6 .3 or 4 .16/0 .4 or 0 .48 kV auxiliary power 
transf ormers for mounting in transformer/switchgear room on board  
- 0.4 or 0 .48 kV switchgear for auxiliary power distribution to CCPP 
consumers  
Plant DCS for the above scope with engineering and operator stations for 
placing in a control room arrangement on board   
- 110V DC UPS system for above scope  
- 230V  AC UPS distribution board, UPS supply from vessel main AC UPS 
system  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    14 - Supervision of installat ion at yard at daily rates  
- Cold Commissioning supervision at yard at daily rates  
- Training at yard at daily rates  
 
Overview of shipyard’s obligation  
- Installation of equipment  
- Cold and hot commissioning of equipment ( under Technical Field 
Assistance by Siemens  Energy ) 
- Interconnecting piping and cabling between equipment  
- Pipe and cable racks   
- Supporting steel structures for equipment  
- Platforms and stairs  
- Steam turbine  building , including 85-ton gantry  crane for maintenance  
- Maintenance buil ding (~175m ²) for GT, including 8-ton gantry crane if 
GT maintenance is to be made on board  
- Electrical rooms for aux. power transformers and switchgears  
- Rooms for installation of DCS UPS equipment, plant DCS panels  
- MV/LV transformer(s) and sub-distribution for on board utilities  
- 6.3 or 4.16 kV switchgear for auxiliary power distribution to CCPP and 
utility consumers of the vessel including two feeders as dedicated 
supply for the transformers and sub distribution of the vessel, normally 
not p art of Siemens Energy scope  
- AC UPS system for plant DCS  
- Control room area and necessary furniture  
- Make -up water treatment/demineralization plant  
- Service and instrument air system  
- Fresh water -cooled circuit for GTs, ST,  generators, feedwater pumps,  
main tr ansformers and sampling rack for steam and water sampling  
- Sea water cooling system including condenser cooling water pumps  
- Drain system from power plant drains  
- Gas fuel supply, 25 -200°C, 30 bar  (a)  
- Any black start/emergency generator  - Fire fighting  system  
- First fill of lube oil  
 
  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    15 Typical plant layout SCC -800 2x1 (~ 80x3 8m) 
  
 

 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    16 Configuration SCC -800 2x1, typical main flow diagram  
 
 

 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    17 SGT -800 SeaFloat  “plug and play” power application  
Benefits for yards and end customer  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 • Optimized power plant footprint giving highest power density  
• Siemens  Energy  installation guidelines for yards  
• 3-point mount single lift base frames with fastest installation of gas and steam turbine 
packages with minimal supervision  
• Gas and steam turbine packages are system tested with dedicated electrical and control 
modules bef ore shipment  
Best -in-class reliability & availability  
Excellent performance  • World class efficiency by Siemens Energy well proven products  
• Combined cycle power plant with highest turn down efficiency at plant part load  
• High fuel flexibility; natural gas, ethane, propane, LPG, diesel  
• Robust Dry Low Emission (DLE) combustion system  
• LNG gas supply to gas grid in case of FSRP solution  • World class reliability  
• Optimized design for on -board turbine maintenance  
• Gas turbine core engine exchange in 48 hours for maximized availability  
• Brownfield transformation: C an be installed in parallel to a n operating  plant to be replaced, 
with no interruption of power production  Pre-engineered concept  
Installation advantages  • Pre-engineered “plug and play” equipment, including all main components for a complete 
power plant  
• Optimized general plant arrangement provided in electronic format; 3D, 2D  
• Performance and functional guarantees from Siemens Energy  
• Design once - build many => highest quality and lowest price  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -800 | SeaFloat | 202 2    18 
Siemens Energy Long Term Service Program (FlexLTP)  
is tailored to support our customers achieving real outcomes    
-Operational flexibility, based on actual operation   
-Tailored maintenance interval and aligned maintenance planning  
-Priority service, guaranteed mobilization time  
-Project manager and maintenance planning services  
 
 
-Remote on -line service and support   
-Spar e part management and spare part pool  
-Forecasting of component life based on actual operation  
-Access to continuous R&D activities in failure pattern recognition & advanced  
- diagnostic algorithm and tools  
-O&M support on all levels up to complete organizatio n 
 
 
-Minimized cost of ownership (equipment condition based)  
-Solid foundation for prediction of maintenance expenses  
 
 
-Extensive guarantees  
-Term warranty for replacement parts  
-Combined agreement for Siemens Energy rotating equipment, if required  
Flexible Long -Term  Programs  
 
 
 
 
 
Your needs.  
Our knowledge.  
Better value.  
Published by © Siemens Energy 202 2| Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG  
For information only. Not guaranteed. Actual results are dependent on -site specifics. Subject to changes and provided on an “as is” b asis without any express or implied representation or warranty of any kind and without any verification as to accuracy, 
suitability or completeness,  terms subject to a final contract between the parties. Actual benefits and results are dependent on a varie ty of factors such as plant specification, site specifics, operational profile and local market conditions.  
 