siemens.com/FlexLTPFlexLTP
Flexible Long Term Programs 
for your rotating equipment
A component’s life is determined by a 
series of factors
Operating hours, load and load variations, 
fuel type and properties, cycles and  
climate and weather parameters (such  
as temperature, humidity and barometric 
pressure) can all have different effects on  
a component’s degradation. 
Traditional maintenance plans are designed 
to protect your turbine based on worst-case 
operation scenarios, but that could mean 
that units are stopped for maintenance too 
frequently, or that components are replaced 
which still have operating life remaining.By tailoring a maintenance plan to your 
unique operating parameters, you can get 
the most out of your turbine. Whether you 
want to maximize production by extending 
the time between inspections, choose to 
have your inspections at a time when  
your plant is already shut down, optimize 
life-cycle costs by equipment condition 
based replacements, or operate free from 
predetermined inspections, Siemens FlexLTP 
can adapt to suit your needs.A great maintenance plan 
starts with you
Siemens can offer a fully-tailored maintenance plan based  
on your needs and requirements.
Why a tailored maintenance  
plan can benefit you
Graph showing the degradation 
of components depending  
on operating conditions and 
environmental factors. Normal 
maintenance plans schedule 
inspections according to the 
worst-case scenario.
Load 100 %Life factor
Highest impact components
Components with 
operation lif e remaining 
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) experience 
taken to the next level
• More than 100 years‘ experience of turbine technology
•  Over 1800 gas turbines delivered running in 178  
countries
•  Over 700 units covered by Long terms programs 
•  First Long term program signed in the early 1980sMaintenance Data
Operational profile, 
environmental 
aspects, outage 
investigations,  
NDT etc.
Knowledge  
refinementPerformance
Engine thermo-  
dynamic and 
sceondary air 
models.Lifing
Component models 
for loadings 
(numerical thermal 
and centrifugal 
loads etc.)Operational 
experience
Prediction vs actual 
statistical patterns 
analysisProbabilistics
Life consumption 
and prediction 
models

Optimizing operation throughout the lifecycle  
Our unique insight and experience enables solutions for 
full-range support of today’s dynamic market. Whether a 
boost in output, emissions optimization, outage flexibility 
or efficiency performance is a key driver, we are able to 
optimize performance to fit the needs. Flexible operation 
tailored to your  needs and requirements.
Flexible operation
When joining us in a Long Term Program, the actual  
consumption and forecasting of remaining component life is continuously analyzed via Advanced Component Lifing 
Software. Utilizing both experience algorithms and actual 
operating data enables a continuous optimization of  
maintenance interval and activities, through the entire 
lifecycle of your rotating equipment.  
A Tailored Maintenance Plan
When calculating your solution, Siemens considers the  
perspectives described on the following pages in order to 
provide optimum foundation for achieving tangible results.
80 000
60 000
40 000
20 000
0
-20 000
-40 000Life consumption based 
on actual operation
Interval determining 
componentForcasted life consumption
Together all the way
Interval Maximization
Flexible Intervals 
Extending the time between overhaul could 
be a key driver for reduced downtime so 
profit generating opportunity is maximized. 
By fully utilizing our OEM experience, we are 
able to offer interval extensions where asset 
availability is taken to unparalleled levels.  Main benefits  
•  Increased generation
•  Optimized life cycle costs
•   Improved operational cash-flow
•  EHS and logistic risk reductions 
(minimized intervention and shipment)
There is often a focus on cutting costs, however over the course of your equipment’s life-time, the greatest positive 
financial effect can be obtained from maximizing inspection intervals. 
Example analysis of costs and operating income
In this example, the largest financial effect is obtained by maximizing uptime of the unit, through stretching the time between overhauls. This 
can be accomplished through analysis of each turbine’s unique operation parameters, combined with Siemens’ experience with component life 
calculations and predictive models.Fuel cost
Maintenance cost
Annual investmentIncreased uptime 
-> 
Increased profit 
potential Net operating incomeMarket standard Maintenance Plan  
Current Maintenance Plan
Maintenance Cycle Adaptation
Calendar Planning
Using state of the art component 
forecasting enables us to adapt the 
maintenance cycle of the rotating 
equipment to fit overall plant needs,  
whilst at the same time retaining the 
flexibility to adapt if preconditions change.Main benefits  
• Synchronized equipment downtime
•  Optimized life cycle costs (downtime 
efficiency maximization)
•  Maximized generation (aligned 
maintenance planning)
“Flexible operation 
tailored to your needs 
and requirements.”
Scope Optimization
Flexible Scope
Component degradation characteristics vary 
over time in specific operating conditions. 
By fully forecasting this with advanced 
diagnostic tools, a personalized 
maintenance scope can be determined 
where only the parts which need replacing 
are replaced. Main benefits  
•  Optimized life cycle costs
•  Minimized cost of ownership  
(equipment condition based)

Fully Managed Solution
Flexible Comfort
If turbines and compressors are not your 
core business, or if you just want to remove 
the hassle of maintenance planning, 
Siemens can offer a fully managed solution. 
Utilizing our OEM parts performance tools, 
the operation and maintenance can be 
adapted to specific needs, and optmized 
based on operation as the business evolves. 
We take care of the maintenance planning 
and execution – with the purpose to give 
our customers peace of mind and time to 
focus on core business. Main benefits  
•  Guaranteed cost of ownership, service 
delivery and performance
•  Allows unobstructed focus on core 
business (a completly managed service 
solution)
•  Predictable through life cost of ownership          
Peace of mind that your rotating 
equipment is being looked after, so 
you can focus on your core business.
Benefits of a tailored  
maintenance plan
• Interval maximization +30%
•  Up to 2000 hours increased uptime by adapting maintenance  
to unique conditions and operation profile
•  Optimized life cycle costs by tailoring your maintenance  
scope to the actual operation of the unit
•  Up to 50% longer operation time between unplanned  
shutdowns through proactive risk management, remote  
monitoring and degradation forecasting
Siemens AG - Energy Sector
Power Generation
Freyeslebenstrasse 1
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens AG - Energy Sector, Power
Generation Gas Turbines & Generators
10548 Berlin, Germany
Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery AB 
Slottsvaegen
SE-612 83 Finspong, Sweden
Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery Ltd. 
Ruston House, Waterside South
Lincoln LN5 7FD
United Kingdom
For more information, please contact our 
Customer Support Center.
Phone: +49 180 524 70 00
Fax: +49 180 524 24 71
E-mail: support.energy@siemens.com
Published by and copyright © 2017: Siemens 
Industrial Turbomachinery, Finspong, Sweden. 
All rights reserved. Trademarks mentioned in 
this document are the property of Siemens 
AG, its affiliates, or their respective owners. 
Subject to change without prior notice. The 
information in this document contains general 
descriptions of the technical options available, 
which may not apply in all cases. The required 
technical optionsshould therefore be specified 
in the contract.
Visit our 
website for 
more 
information