Siemens Energy to upgrade and expand services at Jebel Ali L2 power and water station in Dubai Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy to upgrade and expand services at Jebel Ali L2 power and water station in Dubai Press release November 23, 2020 Dubai Integrated 20-year long-term service agreement includes intelligent gas turbine controller, jointly developed by DEWA and Siemens Energy Upgrade to the latest SPPA-T3000 power plant control system Additional 33 BOX upgrades for gas turbines and generator services added A new package of enhanced energy services from Siemens Energy will supply Dubai Electricity and Water Authority’s (DEWA) Jebel Ali L2 power and water station with the latest advancements in power plant service, maintenance, and controls. Under terms of the new long-term service agreement, Siemens Energy will supply an intelligent controller for each of the four SGT5-4000F gas turbines, the latest SPPA-T3000 control system, services for generators, as well as added upgrades for outage reduction and operational flexibility. The intelligent controller was co-developed by DEWA and Siemens Energy in 2019 and was the world’s first thermodynamic Digital Twin Gas Turbine (GT) Intelligent Controller. The controller uses Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning to systematically give power plant operators a complete and continuous overview and scenario-based assessment of power plant operations. Developed and manufactured by Siemens Energy, the upgraded SPPA-T3000 control system features online patch update capabilities which enables continuous, safe plant operations during the update as it doesn’t require system shutdown. By having all equipment running on one control system, it also enhances planning for maintenance services and management of spare parts. Upgrades for the SGT5-4000F gas turbines will enable interval extension between outages providing increased operational flexibility, allowing for a higher number of starts and reduction of outages by approximately 25 percent. “DEWA is consolidating its leading position, both nationally and globally, by providing electricity and water services to the highest international standards of reliability, efficiency, availability and safety,” said Nasser Lootah, Executive Vice President of Generation at DEWA. “Our strategic partnership with Siemens dates back over 30 years. Siemens Energy’s technologies contribute to around 53% of DEWA’s total generation capacity, enough power for more than 2.5 million residents in Dubai.” Karim Amin, Executive Vice President of Siemens Energy, Generation Division, said, “This new agreement underscores the longstanding relationship we have with DEWA and the successes we’ve achieved together in bringing our advanced technologies and services to DEWA’s water and power facilities. We look forward to continuing this collaboration for many years to come.” Contact Media Relations mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (179 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Read more March 12, 2025 Dammam Siemens Energy secures USD 1.6 billion project to advance Saudi Arabia’s energy transition with new power plants February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply April 2, 2024 Dubai Siemens Energy appoints Dietmar Siersdorfer Managing Director of Africa See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025