For best viewing experience, please open this interactive PDF 
in the Acrobat PDF Viewer 10.0 or higher.
Visit our website: siemens-energy.com/steamturbinesSpare Parts  
Glossary
Spare Parts for Dresser Rand 
Single Stage Steam Turbines
For best viewing experience, please open this interactive PDF 
in the Acrobat PDF Viewer 10.0 or higher.
Visit our website: siemens-energy.com/steamturbinesSpare Parts  
Glossary
Spare Parts for Dresser Rand 
Single Stage Steam Turbines
21. Steam Path Components (I)Spare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1
Guide Ring Assembly
Redirects the steam flow from the first 
row of blading so that it hits the second 
row of blading in the same directionShrink Rings
Helps position and hold the wheel assem-
blies correctly on the main turbine shaft Nozzle Ring Assembly
Focuses the correct amount of steam flow at 
the 1st row of blading Carbon Ring Spacers – Plain 
Compartmentalizes the carbon rings, springs 
and stops along the main turbine shaftCarbon Ring Spacers – Leak-off 
Functions the same as the plain carbon rings spacers 
but also allows room for the steam ejectors to operate
Oil Slingers
Helps prevent the passage of 
steam along shaft and promotes 
the containment of oil inside 
the bearing cases
31. Steam Path Components (II)Spare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1
Wheel Assembly 
Catches the steam flow at 
the outer perimeter and 
transmits the energy to the 
turbine shaft causing it to 
spin creating sufficient rpm‘s 
to drive whatever equipment 
is connected to the turbine 
shaftTrip Finger Assembly 
Receives the force of the fully extended 
emergency weight assembly setting the trip 
linkage in motion to shut down the turbine
Blades
Catch the steam flow to make the rotor spin
Wheel Key
Holds the wheel assembly to the main 
turbine shaft2nd Row Curtis 1st Row Curtis 
Single disk rotor with 
2 sets of blades
42. Valve Body and 
ComponentsSpare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1
Trip Valve Link 
A lever within the trip valve 
linkage which is attached to 
the emergency valve spindle 
at one end and to the trip 
valve itself at the other facili-
tating the closure of the trip 
valve assembly
Emergency Valve Spindle 
A shaft that runs transverse in the valve body 
assembly and allows the closure of the trip 
valve assemblyValve Body Assembly 
Houses the governor valve and 
bushing assembly as well as the 
trip valve assemblyGovernor Valve and Stem Assembly 
Allows the admission of steam to the turbine and 
is sized to correctly handle the „load“ required by 
the turbine
Trip Valve Assembly
Reacts thru a series of linkages to 
stop the flow of steam to the 
turbine, effectively safely shutting 
down the turbineValve Body Cover
Acts as the housing for the valve stem bush-
ings; closes the valve body assembly and 
allows access into the internal components 
of the valve body assembly
53. Turbine and Bearing Case/ 
ComponentsSpare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1
Turbine Case Assembly
Houses the rotor, nozzle ring assembly, 
guide ring assembly  and carbon or laby 
packing for the turbineOil Baffles
Help to prevent steam  
flow from entering the 
bearing cases and  
causing condensation
Bearing Case Supports
Supports and holds the bearing case 
assemblies at the correct height 
required to keep them aligned with 
the main turbine shaftOil Rings
In turbines where there is no pressure lubri-
cations, they lubricate the journal bearings
64. Main Turbine BearingSpare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1
Thrust Bearing Assembly
Prevents the axial movement of the rotor assembly
Journal Bearing Assembly
Prevents the radial movement of the rotor assembly
75. Shaft PackingSpare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1
Labyrinth Packing Rings 
Have the same function as the carbon 
packing rings and are made of all metal  
and have teeth to reduce the flow of  
steam; they are normally used only for 
hi-speed applicationsCarbon Packing Rings
Help to prevent steam flow from entering  
the main turbine case; they are made from 
all carbon material
Springs – Carbon Packing Rings
Keep the carbon ring segments tight and as 
close to the main turbine shaft as possible
Stops – Carbon Packing Rings
Keep the carbon ring segments from spin-
ning when the turbine shaft is rotating
86. Turbine Drive ComponentsSpare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1
Governor 
Controls the speed of the turbine either thru linkages or actuators 
thru connection with the governor valve and stem assemblyGovernor Drive Shaft
Transmits the speed of the 
turbine to the governor letting 
it know whether more or less 
steam is required to properly 
handle the load of the turbine
Worm Gear
Transmits the turbine speed from the main 
turbine shaft to the governor drive shaft thru 
the worm wheel establishing the proper 
governor speed for the turbine  
Governor Lever Assembly 
The lever which connects the governor with 
the governor valve stem thru various linkage 
arrangements
Worm Wheel
Receives the transmission of the main 
turbine shaft speed from the worm gear and 
transmits it to the governor drive shaft
97. Safety Features (I)Spare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1
Sentinel Warning Valve
Set at a pressure near what the turbine 
case assembly sees and will release 
pressure if that setting is exceeded 
while sounding an audible warning 
that this is happening
Emergency Governor Cup 
Assembly
Self-contained assembly designed to 
prevent the over-speed of the turbine and 
prevent damage to life and property
Emergency Weight Assembly
Overcomes centripetal force on the emer -
gency governor cup assembly to extend 
the emergency weight striking a trip 
paddle setting the overspeed trip linkage 
in motion which shuts down the turbine
107. Safety Features (II)Spare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1
Trip Lever Spring
A spring which is found in 
the trip linkage system 
assisting the trip valve to 
close and shut off steam to 
the turbineTrip Lever 
A lever by which the turbine can 
manually be shut down thru a linkage 
system in an emergency
Valve Lever Connection
Connects the valve spindle to the 
“valve lever” imparting motion to the 
turbine to shut it down safely if 
needed
Valve Lever
Part of the linkage which joins the 
valve lever connection to the trip lever 
118. Turbine Shaft and 
Hand Valve AssembliesSpare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1
Turbine Shaft
It imparts the RPM’s and horsepower 
of the turbine thru a coupling to the 
driven machine 
Hand Valve Assembly
Permit additional ports for steam 
to entire the turbine
129. Additional FeaturesSpare Parts Glossary
Click on the part name for more detailed information! Rev. 1Gear & Pinion Assembly 
Either increase or decreases the turbine speed to 
match the driven equipment RPM‘s
Oil Pump Assembly
On pressure lube machines, provides the distribution 
of oil to all required locations of the turbine
Low Oil Pressure Trip Assembly
On lose of lubricating oil pressure, it will shut the 
turbine down safely
siemens-energy.com
x.com/siemens_energy
linkedin.com/siemens-energy
Published by and copyright © 2024:
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Freyeslebenstrasse 1  
91058, Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy Inc.  
15375 Memorial Drive, Suite 700  
Houston TX 77079, USA
For more information, please contact our  
Siemens Energy Customer Support Center  
Phone: +49 (0)911 6505 6505 / +49 180 5 24 7000  
(charges may apply depending on your provider)
Web: siemens-energy.com
E-mail: rslparts.pgdr.energy@siemens-energy.com
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, 
or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.