The REC evolution –  
Embracing the cyber dimension  
Whitepaper  
siemens-energy.com/sppa-t3000
The REC evolution – Embracing the cyber dimension l Whitepaper
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 2The REC Principle
Every kind of power plant needs instrumentation and 
control systems to operate normally. This is just as true for 
new generation energy plants, using wind, solar power or 
hybrid systems, as it is for traditional generation coal, oil 
and gas-fired plants. They all need controls, and they are all 
vulnerable to different kinds of threat. 
The Remote Expert Center (REC) concept was established 
by Siemens Energy over 20 years ago to provide compre-
hensive, rapid support to all operators of Siemens Energy 
Instrumentation and Control Solutions. Right from the start, 
the REC extended far beyond acting simply as a hotline and 
helpdesk for Siemens Energy controls related products.
Comprehensive, integrated capability  
 
The REC brings together experts in Siemens Energy con-
trol technology, with capabilities in market operations, 
production technologies, sensors, data management and 
advanced IT. At the REC we integrate these disciplines as 
part of a single, customer and market-focused resource. It is 
available for support across a wide range of requirements: 
from advice on system and process optimization to rapid 
response regarding time-critical concerns.  
Safeguarding availability
The key priority for power generation businesses today, as 
it was the day the service was launched, is to safeguard 
availability. The aim of the REC is to be that single touch point that 
enables operators to access all the help they need to 
meet availability challenges for their power plants. 
Wherever they operate, power generation companies are 
committed to provide defined power output to their grid as 
and when required, often with serious penalties for failure. 
Availability, therefore, is the key to keeping a business via-
ble and profitable, and it has increasing significance for a 
range of different regulatory reasons, as well. National and, 
in some cases, international regulators have established 
tougher regimes to manage all key indicators, from time to 
come online to security protocols to emissions and other 
sustainability measurements. 
Siemens Energy REC plays an important role in helping 
operators to meet all their varied commitments, maximiz-
ing their investment in capital equipment, and continuously 
keeping and even improving operational efficiency. 
The REC in operation  
The global network of RECs includes central and regional 
centers to ensure that technical and appropriate language 
skills, cultural awareness and local knowledge are always 
available. Together, the RECs provide comprehensive 24/7 
online support for all managed functions related to Instru-
mentation and Controls. 
Mexico City,
MexicoAlpharetta, 
USAKarlsruhe,
Germany
Kuala Lumpur,
MalaysiaSydney,
Australia
>1300>70 power plant units in countries across the world524/7/365REC Centers
The REC evolution – Embracing the cyber dimension l Whitepaper
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 3Key Priorities 
The REC proposition goes far beyond routine monitoring 
and reports, backed by a hotline for accessing emergency 
support. Used effectively, the REC provides an extension to 
the customer’s own team, enabling them to access capabil-
ities that may no longer be affordable in house (especially 
given the continued shortage of appropriate expert re-
sources in the market).
The service provided by the REC network covers a very wide 
scope of activities, monitoring data flows from production 
equipment, providing reports and expert insight to opti-
mize predictive maintenance, helping maximize production 
output and take rational steps to extend the life of their 
components and core assets.
Responsive and preventive
REC support falls under two key headings:
Responsive
A responsive,  24/7/365 service de-
signed to provide fast support to 
operational problems as they emerge. 
Here the global structure of the REC 
network means that customers will 
be in contact with experts who can be online as and when 
needed, and with a certain level of regional expertise to 
supplement their engineering know-how.  
 
Preventive
A preventive service designed to 
investigate current systems, scan for 
and identify potential weak spots, 
and plan a program of remedial work 
to fix problems and strengthen the 
resilience of customer systems.
These two services are mutually supportive and will be 
explored in more depth later.  
 
Integrated global reach
To ensure secure, uninterrupted communication between 
RECs and customer sites, Siemens Energy uses its common 
Remote Service Platform (cRSP). This establishes a secure 
(ISO27001 certified) connection from individual Siemens 
Energy service experts and systems to each customer site, 
wherever and whenever needed.  
  
common Remote Service
Platform (cRSP)
ISO 27001 certiﬁedRemote Expert
CentersRemote Service Distance is not an obstacle
The REC network currently serves a large, globally distrib-
uted installed base of Siemens Energy T3000 and legacy 
I&C solutions. It provides an environment that combines 
the ease of use and cost efficiency of cloud, offering access 
through a customer portal, and the security of an environ-
ment that meets the most demanding security standards. 
To deliver the right combination of convenience, cost and 
security, Siemens Energy builds on its strategic relation-
ships with AWS, the world’s largest cloud services provider, 
through our Shared Responsibility Security Model, as shown 
in the figure below.  
Siemens Energy specific area  
Siemens Energy is responsible for security of 
its own customers‘ data in the cloud
Platform, Applications, Identity & Access Management
Operating System, Network & Firewall Configuration
Client-side  
Data EncryptionService-side  
Data EncryptionNetwork  
Traffic Protection
AWS is responsible for the  
security of the cloud  
AWS Foundation Services
AWS Global  
InfrastructureCompute Storage
Availability 
ZonesDatabase
RegionsNetworking
Edge  
Locations
The REC evolution – Embracing the cyber dimension l Whitepaper
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 4In this approach, the AWS hyperscale cloud platform con-
cept provides the basic infrastructure for all cloud services, 
corresponding to the building, utilities and hardware that 
are used in a standalone datacenter. AWS is also responsi-
ble for securing this core infrastructure: so AWS is responsi-
ble for the security OF the cloud.
Siemens Energy, however, is fully responsible for building 
the platform required for service delivery, just as in a phys-
ical datacenter. In this model, Siemens Energy defines the 
physical location of data, which makes it a private cloud 
instance, and so helps to ensure full compliance with 
prevailing regulations in any appropriate jurisdiction where 
services are offered. 
Siemens Energy also manages identity and access, provides 
the operating systems and applications, while handling all 
aspects of configuration, service and application update, 
and end-to-end security. Siemens Energy is therefore re-
sponsible for security IN the cloud.
In this way, customers gain the benefits of high perfor -
mance matched by affordable cost, always updated / at best 
practice level cloud infrastructure, with no need for upfront 
capital investment, backed by the same or maybe better se-
curity assurances that fully on-premise systems can deliver.
Growing capability  
 
Initial customer questions are routed to appropriate person-
nel in the full-time REC team of engineering experts. RECs 
are fully-equipped and self-contained, physically separate 
from other operational centers, and possess their own 
systems, locations and dedicated teams.The image below shows the REC in Karlsruhe in Germany, 
which provides dedicated expertise, able to manage the 
majority of DCS-related issues. It can also make available 
the full range of Siemens Energy engineering expertise for 
support to problems that present unusual challenges. 
The REC concept in its earliest stages enabled expert Sie-
mens Energy staff working remotely to collect and analyze 
data from customer sites, identifying potential issues and 
providing advice on request, giving input to customers for 
trouble-shooting, updates and production optimization. 
Further capability has been added, year by year, to the 
point where the REC can act as a normal, and essential, ex-
tension to customers’ own in-house systems and personnel.
As a preventive service, Remote Inspection permits Siemens 
Energy REC engineers to review general operational perfor -
mance and the status of individual components in depth, 
helping to identify current or potential weak points, and 
providing detailed advice to the customer. This makes it 
possible to carry out planned maintenance on components 
that are likely to fail, thereby avoiding unplanned shut-
downs, while safeguarding availability.
The REC now integrates digital solutions, the Instrumenta-
tion & Controls Monitors and Advisors service (ICMA), a full 
digitized strategic service that enables customers to define 
exactly the right level of support for their needs, and use 
Siemens Energy resources to provide this.  
 
 
 
 

The REC evolution – Embracing the cyber dimension l Whitepaper
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 5Supporting Industry 4.0
As the entire industry digitizes and moves towards an 
Industry 4.0 model, so the ability to mobilize specialized 
resources and capabilities in support of current operational 
priorities becomes more important. This enables faster 
scaling, greater operational agility and rapid access to best 
practice, without having to maintain costly expert resourc-
es in-house. 
The REC forms the key access point to these enhanced 
Siemens Energy services for power generation businesses 
worldwide, whether they require immediate action to ad-
dress an ongoing problem, or long-term preventive support 
for continuous optimization to maximize availability. Ser -
vices available via the REC are constantly evolving:
ICMA Tailored Patch Information (TPI) 
The ICMA Tailored Patch Information (TPI) service ensures 
that systems are kept secure, with every security update 
provided on time, while rapidly addressing urgent security 
patch issues  
 
ICMA System Check (SysCheck)
ICMA System Check (SysCheck) is a key preventive service, 
monitoring the health of every component and system 
within an operational environment, providing detailed anal-
ysis of current condition, down to component level, with 
recommendations for actions to optimize performance  
Customer-focused and tailored services
These are examples of how the REC’s unique blend of 
technology and human expertise provides customers with 
deep insights into systems and components, helping them 
to dig into specific issues, while also providing answers to 
the more complex technology questions. The REC connects 
customers directly to the outstanding expertise, quite apart 
from automated response systems and algorithmically 
generated data analytics. The REC offer is also tailored to exact customer needs. The 
level of access to expertise and the associated costs of the 
services they require is defined by the customer and fits 
in with their own capabilities and technology platforms. 
The concept is also at the heart of other, targeted Siemens 
Energy solutions, such as I&C Monitors and Advisors, and 
can be customized to meet exact needs due to its broad 
scope and three stage engagement model. Customers can 
access alarm views and generated reports; online or onsite 
expert trouble-shooting advice; or full consultancy support 
for complex requirements.
Monitor view for TPI and SysCheck showing information in a 
dashboard
Advisor view for TPI and SysCheck showing recommendations for 
related elements
The REC evolution – Embracing the cyber dimension l Whitepaper
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 6The Cyber Security ChallengeWhe
n the REC concept was originally developed, cyber 
security was not a well-developed or understood concept. 
For most power generation businesses, security was largely 
about the physical integrity of their plant and its equip-
ment, while the most urgent issues they faced were largely 
related to system and production technology. They were 
concerned about component failure, the condition of their 
production assets, faulty electrical connections, wear and 
tear: classic mechanical and electrical issues.
A growing problem
In the last two decades, evolutionary changes to corporate 
systems have led to unexpected consequences, some of 
which are directly responsible for major security challenges. 
The key factor here is the growing convergence between 
Operational Technology (OT) and corporate business sys-
tems (IT).
OT systems are based around customized IT components, 
designed to drive rapid improvements in operational ef-
ficiency, deliver more agility and enable centralized man-
agement of multiple assets. To strengthen management 
control, improve planning and align key activities, such as 
maintenance with financial systems (ensuring that a com-
pany’s supply contracts are in step with planned downtime, 
for example), OT integration with IT has become not just 
more normal but increasingly important.
IT systems are normally accessible via the internet, and 
integration of IT and OT means that production systems are 
also more easily accessible to external actors. This process 
of integration, therefore, has led to increased vulnerability 
to cyber-attacks. The number of small-scale attacks and 
failures is too large to be easily counted, and many of them 
are caused by disaffected ex-employees, or by opportunists 
carrying out ransom-based attacks. Yet there has also been 
a frightening range of large-scale attacks by state actors, as 
well.
Targeting Critical National Infrastructure (CNI)
The first major known attack happened as early as 2001 
(NIMDA), which was spread through infected email attach-
ments. This approach seems almost simplistic in nature, 
compared with what has followed since. Major attacks 
against critical national infrastructure have taken place 
more often since then. One example is an attack that 
managed to take the Ukraine power grid almost completely 
offline for a time (2015 – Ukraine Blackout).Other attacks, such as WannaCry, seem to have been crim -
inal in nature, aimed at securing ransom payments. Petya, 
again of Russian origin, mimicked the ransomware ap -
proach but was clearly aimed at causing political damage to 
a state (Ukraine – again). Yet perhaps the worst such threat 
did not emerge until 2019, with Xenotime, which is specifi -
cally targeted at power generation, national grids and other 
Critical National Infrastructures through its Triton malware. 
These extremely well-funded and organized, professional 
adversaries represent the single greatest threat to power 
generation businesses, as they have the potential to take 
them offline altogether, thus removing their ability to 
supply power and therefore to trade. Of course, if there is a 
truly successful attack, the failure of an individual company 
to meet its profit targets will not be top of anyone’s priori -
ties. The blacking out of an entire national economy will be 
rather more pressing. 
Regulators and governments have responded to these 
growing threats by urgently requiring Critical National 
Infrastructure businesses to meet far more stringent re -
quirements than ever before. They also expect proof of 
compliance, not just at one point in time but continuously, 
always taking account of new threat profiles as they evolve. 
To ensure availability in the future, power generation 
businesses need to look beyond technical concerns and also 
ensure they are cyber-secure. The risk of a cyber-attack in -
creases day by day, therefore relevant stakeholders should 
position themselves in a protected state.

The REC evolution – Embracing the cyber dimension l Whitepaper
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 7The REC concept is designed to offer power genera-
tion businesses the first line support they need to deal 
with their most urgent technical issues, profit from 
expert support and, by doing so, meet their availabili-
ty commitments.  
It has always brought together experts from a range of 
disciplines, supported by the technology capability re-
quired to deliver the services most appropriate to custom-
ers today and into the future. That means capability has 
evolved to meet changing needs as a matter of course.  
Cyber security services
Siemens Energy uses its own well-established security 
principles for all customer-facing services, as well as for 
our own internal systems and processes. Full details of 
our security strategy can be found in our “Cloud Security 
White Paper”, with relevant headlines that include:
360 degree governance
The strategic approach taken by 
Siemens Energy to build cyber 
security into new services and 
products from the ground up. Based 
on 5 interconnected processes, this 
covers the entire value chain at or -
ganizational and design levels, then 
at implementation, constant assessment for new threats 
and fast response when new threats emerge.  
 
Basic security principles
Introduce a “defense in depth” 
approach to all aspects of Siemens 
Energy products and services, 
ensuring that potential issues are 
identified early and engineered 
out through proactive rather than 
reactive intervention.  
 
Digital security
Using secure data transfer, Shared 
Responsibility (described earlier) and 
digitalization of platforms to enable 
remote intervention without compro-
mising customer data.  These actions form the foundations for Siemens Energy 
remote support services and enable the REC concept to 
support customer interests in a completely secure manner. 
Cyber is now also a core component of the REC service  
Building cyber into the REC concept
Cyber security is now becoming a higher priority factor 
in staying operational, so the REC has expanded its scope 
to include OT cyber security as part of its normal scope of 
services and capability. The REC for Cyber Security Service 
combines our OT expertise and know-how with cyber secu-
rity leadership to offer a complete and integrated service 
that addresses all potential threats to availability – from 
technical failures through malicious attacks.
Cyber security expertise is embedded within the REC to of-
fer customers a comprehensive, Cyber Security Operations 
Center (cSOC). This is a shared service that brings together 
expertise on a higher and deeper level than can feasibly be 
provided by any individual power generation business. 
It is a center of excellence in cyber that delivers services 
tailored to exact customer needs and specifications, with 
service options defined within three broad areas of activity, 
as illustrated in the figure on the following pages.Beyond production technology – from REC to 
REC Cyber Security
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 9
The REC evolution - Embracing the cyber dimension l Whitepaper
Copyright 2021 Siemens Energy Page 8Omnivise Cyber Inspection is an End Point Detect and Response (EDR) service that 
fulﬁlls the preventive part of REC Cyber Security Service. Its capabilities are extended 
to the point where it can operate as a true Remote Forensics tool. 
To support compliance with regulations, Cyber Inspection offers Cyber Security 
Status (Proﬁle) and Event Report, meeting ISO 27001 standards. This gives customers 
access to a detailed inventory of their systems conﬁgurations and settings. Daily data 
analysis is used to create alarms on abnormal situations. These alarms are extracted 
and presented including recommendation via the Siemens Energy Portal. More 
important, red alarms are daily managed by the REC cSOC Cyber Hotline team.
Whenever a Cyber Hotline ticket is raised by a red Cyber Inspection alarm or a 
reported issue from the customer is identiﬁed as a Cyber issue, REC’s cSOC team 
reactively takes action. Before solving and/or support rectifying possible problems, 
the ﬁrst level of support is Triage – which is a comprehensive standard algorithm. 
Triage aims to identify and separate cyber events from cyber events that need to 
be handled in greater depth and will be handed over to the speciﬁc Incident 
Response service.
If a real incident is identiﬁed in Triage, the Incident Response team is activated. Here 
a full forensic analysis of the system will be performed, and all levels of support are 
provided to the customer up to the point where a report submission is made to the 
appropriate authorities, if applicable. The Incident Response service will carry out a 
forensic investigation to identify the nature and origin of the threat in question, to 
clarify potential points of weakness, and conﬁrm elimination of the threat, together 
with recommendations and lessons learned.Stage 2
Cyber HotlineStage 1
Cyber Inspection
Stage 3
Incident ResponseDetection and triage classi/f_ication of incidents.
Remote Support Cyber SPPA-T3000 Ecosystem.Analysis based on plant data. Preventive
detection of cyber vulnerabilities.
Analysis, containment, eradication, recover and lessons learned
from security incidents.
cSOC – the REC for Cyber Security Service
The REC evolution - Embracing the cyber dimension l Whitepaper
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 10
OT Device Ofﬁce DeviceAlert of security breach
Security breach detected; 
DMZ successfully penetrated by ofﬁce deviceDMZ Operational Technology System Ofﬁce Network
Actions  
Stage 1 Cyber Inspection flagged the incident, a ticket 
was raised by Stage 2 Cyber Hotline and the customer was 
notified. Rapid triage revealed a significant security incident 
and, following a customer request, access to the machine.  
 
 
 
 Forensic action and follow-up.  
 
Stage 3 Incident Response forensic analysis identified a 
change made to existing DMZ status, designed to open 
a permanent back door for further access. The DMZ was 
returned to its required status, with the back door closed. 
Further analysis showed the source of the breach, a Win-
dows machine inside the company. Charges were made 
against the person responsible, while the incident response 
team recommended tightening of protocols and height-
ened awareness in company personnel. Addressing a real customer security incident
Siemens Energy REC cSOC identified a potential threat at a 
large power generation company with operations on sever -
al sites and a fleet of assets managed from a central control room, with DMZ between production and office systems. 
The cSOC noted successful penetration of the DMZ from an 
office device, following ~5000 log-on attempts.  
The REC evolution – Embracing the cyber dimension l Whitepaper
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 11The combination of new cSOC and existing REC capabilities 
ensures that all power generation companies with Siemens 
Energy I&C equipment will now have support against 
both normal technical issues and the new emerging cyber 
threats. This combined approach is essential for safeguard-
ing their operational efficiency, availability and regulatory 
compliance, now and into the future.  
 
Implementation and management
The REC concept has proven its value to power generation 
companies around the world, staying relevant through con-
stant updating and expansion, developing additional capa-
bilities as new requirements and threats have emerged. 
The greatest development in the energy market over 
the past ten years is the rise of increasingly dangerous 
cyber-security threats, and that is why Siemens Energy 
has developed its cSOC for integrated threat manage-
ment and has built cyber services into the fabric of the 
REC, itself. Cyber is now an integral part of the REC concept and will 
be provided to all new customers from this point on as a 
matter of course. Existing REC customers will be offered an 
immediate upgrade to ensure that cyber is added to and 
integrated with their existing service levels. Siemens En-
ergy believes that DCS remote support must from now on 
include cyber security services to deliver the comprehensive 
support that the market needs. 
The landscape in which we operate changes constantly, and 
the support services we provide will evolve continuously 
to remain completely relevant, to reflect market priorities, 
and to safeguard customers against a growing number of 
emerging threats. We have moved from a world in which 
high fences were an effective security response to a very 
different reality today. The REC is continuously evolving to 
remain the only DCS support service any T3000 operator 
ever needs.

Published by and copyright © 2021
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
Article Nr. SVXX-T10023-00-7600  
 
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/sppa-t3000
The technical data presented in this document is based on an actual 
case or on as-designed parameters, and therefore should not be 
relied upon for any specific application and does not constitute a 
performance guarantee for any projects. Actual results are 
dependent on variable conditions. Accordingly, Siemens does not 
make representations, warranties, or assurances as to the accuracy, 
currency or completeness of the content contained herein. If 
requested, we will provide specific technical data or specifications 
with respect to any customer‘s particular applications. Our company 
is constantly involved in engineering and development. For that 
reason, we reserve the right to modify, at any time, the technology 
and product specifications contained herein.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose 
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.