I&C Monitors and 
Advisors
Your plant likes to talk, we can help cut through the 
noise for more profitable outcomes
siemens-energy.com/ic-monitors-and-advisors
I&C Monitors and Advisors
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 2Better visibility for plant improvement and  
profitability
I&C Monitors and Advisors offers 
operators and plant managers 
better visibility and transparency 
of the overall plant operations and 
component statuses, so they can 
make smarter and quicker deci-
sions for improved operational 
efficiency, profitability and  
business outcomes.Today‘s world is driven by 
data. Digital solutions in the 
control room of the power 
plant can help to leverage 
this data and increase plant 
availability, reliability and 
profitability. Analytics  
solutions should supplement 
and extend the skills of your  
experienced engineers using 
automation, Siemens Energy’s 
power plant expertise, and 
all the benefits digitalization 
has to offer through the 
power of cloud analytics.
 Keeping your system available when needed is one of the 
keys to profitability. Transparency on critical operational 
aspects is essential to identify potential issues early, enable 
prompt intervention, and keep downtimes and compliance 
failures to an absolute minimum. I&C Monitors and Advi-
sors, part of the Omnivise Digital Services Suite, combines 
the full potential of powerful cloud-based analytics with our 
deep industry experience and know-how to enable you to 
operate your plant more efficiently and effectively, so that 
you can focus on the things that matter most.  
 
I&C Monitors and Advisors is comprised of I&C Archive, I&C 
Condition, I&C Security, I&C Lifecycle and I&C Process Opti-
mization, all targeting different aspects of your plant opera-
tion. These services, all accessible through the Customer 
Portal, provide you with comprehensive KPI-dashboards to 
offer you a transparent pulse check on the past and current 
performance of your plant.  
 
I&C Monitors and Advisors benchmark s your plant or fleet 
against similar plants, and utilizes all available data to 
pinpoint areas for optimization potential, providing you 
with individual recommendations for possible implemen-
tations.  
 
I&C Monitors and Advisors offers operators and plant man-
agers better visibility and transparency of the overall plant 
operations and component statuses, so they can make 
smarter and quicker decisions for improved operational 
efficiency, profitability and business outcomes.
Copyright 2021 Siemens Energy Page 4I&C Monitors and Advisors
Five Modules for optimized plant operation
• I&C Monitors and Advisors combine the
potential of cloud-based analysis methods with 
long-standing power plant expertise 
• Daily KPI updates on the current DCS status
indicate plant performance, benchmark posi-
tion, optimization potential• Individual recommendations, generated from 
I&C data, create transparency and boost
operational efficiency, contributing directly to 
plant availabilityBetter visibility for
plant improvement
and profitability
I&C Monitors and Advisors
Copyright 2021 Siemens EnergyPage 5Published by and copyright © 2021
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
Order No. SVXX-B10009-00-7600
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
The technical data presented in this document is based on an actual case or on as-designed 
parameters, and therefore should not be relied upon for any specific application and does not 
constitute a performance guarantee for any projects. Actual results are dependent on variable 
conditions. Accordingly, Siemens does not make representations, warranties, or assurances as 
to the accuracy, currency or completeness of the content contained herein. If requested, we 
will provide specific technical data or specifications with respect to any customer‘s particular 
applications. Our company is constantly involved in engineering and development. For that 
reason, we reserve the right to modify, at any time, the technology and product specifications 
contained herein.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global 
GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could 
violate the rights of the owners.Collect Transfer Process Deliver
1. Collect
Bringing together sensor 
meter, DCS and, increasingly, 
Industrial Internet of Thing 
(IIoT) data from power plant 
or other complex production 
infrastructures.2. Transfer
As processing takes place 
within the virtualized 
datacenter based on the 
AWS platform Siemens 
Energy securely transfers 
data from customer sites 
to the analytical engine. 3. Process
The algorithms used to 
analyze customer data 
and the customer data 
lake are housed in the 
Siemens Energy-specific 
environment in a defined 
AWS cloud location. 4. Deliver
The algorithms used to 
analyze customer data and 
the customer data lake are 
housed in the Siemens 
Energy-specific environ-
ment in a defined AWS 
cloud location. A closer look at the data journey: Data is collected from the 
individual plant through Data Agents and channeled 
through a Data & Security Gateway. Data is encrypted 
there, and then transferred through the common Remote 
Service Platform (cRSP) enforcing data integrity as well as 
confidentiality.The entire process is one directional, thus protects against 
intrusion. The raw data is stored in the data platform and 
analyzed on a daily basis, and then shared in the Customer 
Portal. KPI-dashboards and benchmark position, as well as 
hints on optimization, are visualized in the “I&C Monitors 
and Advisors” section of the portal.