Blue retrofit
Revolutionize your existing substations with Siemens 
Energy eco-friendly high-voltage vacuum solutions: 
Zero emissions, high performance, and long-term 
sustainability
Embrace  
sustainability with 
high-voltage 
vacuum solutions
Siemens Energy high-voltage vacuum solutions 
offer a clear advantage: by replacing SF6 insu-
lating gas with our innovative blue portfolio, 
which includes vacuum switching technology 
and clean air insulation, we eliminate harmful 
emissions without compromising on perfor -
mance or economic feasibility.Blue retrofit | Embrace sustainability
3 2
A two-step approach  
to SF6-free switchgear 
replacement
On the path to greater sustainability, Siemens 
Energy provides a two-step approach to replace 
existing GIS with SF6-free switchgear.  
The prerequisite is the ability to separate the gas 
room, with the first indicator being an installed 
coupling field. Assuming this condition is met, 
Siemens Energy experts will:
• Divide the entire switching field 
into two halves.
• Disassemble one half.
• Install and commission the vacuum 
switchgear, including protection 
and control devices.
•  Conduct a high-voltage test to 
ensure safe operation.
The second half of the substation will 
be replaced following the same proce-
dure. Although this concept requires 
intermittent downtimes, one half of 
the substation can remain operational 
during the installation process. 
Depending on the substation layout, 
it may be possible to utilize existing 
cable lines or increase the number of 
bays. The detailed concept and future 
layout will be customized to meet grid 
requirements, considering both 
technical and civil works.
4Blue retrofit | Two-step approach
4 5
Blue retrofit | Advantages
Maximized asset utilization
The replaced assets can serve as spare assets. 
Siemens Energy experts will conduct an  
inspection and advisory routine to determine 
possibilities for further asset use – either within 
your spare asset pool or the Siemens Energy 
refurbishment asset pool.
Ideal for congested areas 
and industrial applications
This replacement concept is particularly suited 
for substations in congested areas where  
greenfield solutions are limited by the 
surrounding environment. It also addresses 
industrial applications, where flexibility is often 
limited, and high asset availability during  
reconstruction is crucial.
Proven expertise  
and sustainability
With over 10 years of experience in high-  
voltage vacuum switching, and more than  
40 years of experience in medium-voltage 
vacuum switching technology, Siemens Energy 
has consistently maintained exceptional levels 
of technical performance and low lifecycle  
costs. Our solutions not only reduce your 
ecological footprint, but also enhance long-  
term sustainability.
6 7
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Grid Technologies Service  
Humboldtstraße 64  
90459 Nuremberg  
Germany 
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Grid Technologies  
8841 Wadford Drive  
Raleigh, NC 27616  
USA
Customer Support Center  
Tel.: +49 911 6505 6505
E-Mail: support@siemens-energy.com
For more information, please visit our website:  
www.siemens-energy.com/gt-service
© Siemens Energy, 2024  
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of further  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owners.  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Learn more