Micro substation
Electricity accessibility through tailor made solution to 
overcome different applications such as electrifying remote 
areas by a direct connection from the existing transmission 
grid. One step from high voltage to low voltage.
04  Benefits & flexibility  
06  Single phase  
08  Three phase  
 
10  Micro substation
Providing electricity accessibility for remote areasTable of contents
Benefits & flexibility 04
Three phase 08
Single phase 06
2 3
Electricity accessibility
Economical solution for remote areas
Minimum civil works required
Transportable solution
One-step from high voltage to low voltage
Applicable solution with blue portfolio
Pre-assembled concept
Quick installation on siteBenefits• Single phase and three phase solutions are available as per  
power demand
• Solutions with latest technology (SF6 free)
• Substation arrangements are tailored to each location  
and customer’s needs, utilizing options, examples include:  
skids platform, steel structures or foundationsFlexibilityBenefits & flexibility
E.g.: 145 kV micro 
substation using  
AIS technology,  
with circuit breaker 
integrated and 
station service 
voltage transformer 
(SSVT) with 167 kVA
4 5
Single phase
Single phase
Electricity accessibility is crucial for 
many reasons. It enhances the quality 
of life by providing access to lighting, 
communication, and refrigeration. It 
also supports education, healt  hcare 
and economic development. Electrifi­
cation infrastructure has been a 
fundamental factor for society among 
the years. We should also seek a 
development to reduce the reliance 
on traditional fuels, which will lead to 
improved environmental conditions.
According to the International Energy 
Agency (IEA) around 770 million 
people worldwide do not have access 
to electricity. Many of these people 
are in remote areas. Our solution can 
assist in bringing reliable and clean 
energy ready to use.
 
There are already many high voltage 
transmission lines crossing areas 
where the energy is needed.
However, for known electrical rea­
sons, we need to convert the high 
voltage to low voltage before we can 
connect to the final application  
(e.g.: homes, 5G antenna and auxili­
ary services). There is a solution that can be used  
to convert the high voltage directly  
to low voltage, ready to be used  
for customers.
Through our micro substation with a 
station service voltage transformer 
(SSVT) in a range of 72.5 kV to 550 kV 
this voltage can be transformed 
directly to voltage ranges between 
100 V up to 900 V.  
To ensure the safety on the operation 
of the micro substation, switching 
equipment is used, such as circuit 
breakers and disconnector switches.  
A current transformer is used to 
measure the current flowing on the 
micro substation and surge arresters 
may also be installed to protect from 
high voltage impulses.
Single phase solution can deliver 
power up 333 kVA on the secondary 
side. 
7 6
Three phase
When a larger power phase is needed, 
we can use the three phase solution 
and supply a higher value of power.
 
For example, in remote areas near to
highways, where we have a high
voltage transmission line we can
install a micro substation with three 
phase and supply energy to different 
applications such as EV charging 
station. 
 
With three station service voltage 
transformers (SSVT) we can supply up 
to 1 MVA to our customers. The solu­
tion is designed to easily scalable to 
aggregate additional station service 
voltage transformers (SSVT) when­
ever the demand requires it.
 
The Micro Substation is supplied with 
the protection system customized 
according to customers standards. The connection of the micro substa­
tion to an overhead line does not 
disturb the current performance of 
the energy transmission. If the fault 
occurs inside the micro substation, 
the protection system is able to dis­
criminate the source of the fault since 
there are current transformers in­
stalled on the high voltage side.
Three phase
E.g.: 145 kV micro substation 
using AIS technology, with 
circuit breaker integrated and 
station service voltage  
transformers (SSVT) supplying  
power of 500 kVA
9 8
Micro substation
The micro substation can be com­
pletely assembled with SF6 free  
solutions. Siemens Energy offers the 
blue portfolio including vacuum 
switching tech no logy and clean air 
insulation to produce zero harmful 
emissions without having to compro­
mise on performance or economic 
feasibility.  
With over 10 years of experience in 
high­voltage vacuum switching, we 
have been able to maintain outstand­
ing levels of technical performance 
and low life cycle costs while reducing 
our ecolo gical footprint and increase 
long term sustainability. Making the 
blue portfolio the perfect choice for substation applications. With the help 
of our strong partnerships, we will 
develop and implement it even fur ­
ther and faster. It provides the same 
electrical and insulation features as 
traditional insulation technologies 
while at the same time giving all the 
benefits of a SF6 free solution. The 
application is suitable for low tem­
perature applications at ­50 °C and 
below. 
The final main features regarding the 
quality of service include, “virtually 
unlimited” power availability and 
sustainability. Concerning the quality 
of service (continuity of supply), this 
solution provides the quality of supply of a transmission grid to the final 
customer. Usually, the average inter ­
ruption time of a transmission grid is 
significantly lower than the interrup­
tion time of a distribution grid, since 
distribution grids are more affected by 
external factors such as extreme 
events like storms, high winds, heavy 
snow or forest fires.
Finally, this micro substation presents 
a sustainable solution since it results 
as a new use for the existing transmis­
sion grids that are already available 
across the countries, without the 
need for grid reinforcements due to 
new power requirements. This is 
useful as a complementary approach Micro substation
The solution is focused on:
•  Consumers do not have access  
to MV/LV energy 
•  Quick installations with 
minimum civil works are  
available on site
•  Overhead lines (OHL) are  
available for usage
mainly outside the urban centers, 
where the rural distribution grids can
have difficulties to supply the power 
demand for different applications.
10 11
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Grid Technologies Service  
Humboldtstraße 64  
90459 Nuremberg  
Germany 
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Grid Technologies  
8841 Wadford Drive  
Raleigh, NC 27616  
USA
Customer Support Center  
Tel.: +49 911 6505 6505
E­Mail: support@siemens­energy.com
For more information, please visit our website:  
www.siemens­energy.com/gt­service
© Siemens Energy, 2024  
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of further  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owners.  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Learn more