Why decarbonizing copper is crucial 
According to an analysis of the International Copper        
Association (ICA), the production of copper contributes toapproximately 0.2% of total global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, totaling around 97 million tons annually (ICA, 2018). Copper is essential for a vast array of            
decarbonizing technologies. When taken together, thesetechnologies have the potential to account for two-thirds of global GHG emissions’ abatement by 2050. Between 2018 and 2050, the demand for copper is expected to double due to population growth, economic development, and the growth of decarbonization technologies.
The International Energy Agency (IEA) highlights that the 
grid length is expected to double by more than 80 million kilometers until 2040 (IEA, 2023), driving increased demand for copper in grid technologies such as       transformers. Copper plays a crucial role in the energytransition due to its exceptional conductivity and        importance in grid technologies. However, the production of copper can generate adverse environmental impacts, including carbon emissions. Through responsible mining practices, these impacts can be managed, supporting an energy transition that is not only effective but also        environmentally performant. The decarbonization of copper production is a process that has already started.However, decarbonizing copper production entails 
time-consuming as well as cost-intensive challengesacross the whole copper value chain. These include moving away from fossil fuels in heavy mining equipment, the procurement of carbon-free electricity at scale, the        substitution of carbon-based fuels and reagents in smelting and refining processes, and challenges with efficient recycling. Fostering technological innovation and        collaborating among stakeholders can help unlock these improvements.
G
etting to the bottom of it: sources of GHG 
emissions in copper production
Of the earlier mentioned 97 million tons of CO2e emitted, approximately 70% are generated by mining sites, 23% originate from smelting and refining, and the remaining 7% come from upstream and downstream transport and end-of-life (EoL) treatment of products (ICA, 2018). In mining, the largest contributors to GHG emissions are the fossil fuels used in mining equipment and the electricity used in material concentration processes. Advancing copper decarbonization 
and the role of recycling
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 1
From its extraction in mines to its use in finished products, 
copper goes through several processing stages, but there are two distinct production pathways. Primary copper isextracted from ores through mining, followed by concentration and treatment in smelters using       pyrometallurgical methods.        Alternatively, a hydrometallurgical route may be used to leach copper from the ores and extract it through electro-winning, depending on the ore’s nature. Secondary copper sources userecycled copper, including scrap from manufacturing processes and EoL products. High purity scrap can be directly remelted, while less pure scrap requires additional processing. This can occur in dedicated secondary smelters or in primary smelters with a certain percentage of added scrap. Primary and secondary sources are often combined to produce high-quality copper metal. While secondary copper has, in average, lower embedded emis-sions than primary copper, it will be crucial to focus on reducing the impacts of primary routes going forward. 
To decarbonize copper means to pull the 
right levers
The copper industry has identified four key levers for 
decarbonization. In order of impact potential, starting with
the biggest lever: decarbonized electricity; equipment electrification, like trolley or battery-driven haulage trucks; alternative fuels, such as hydrotreated vegetable oil and green hydrogen; and efficiency gains in various processes. By combining these levers, the copper sector aims to bring Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions to net zero by 2050.
For practical industry examples, Boliden, a Swedish mining
company, introduced electric trolley assistance in its hauling trucks in 2018, saving significant amounts of  diesel fuel (Boliden, 2018). The electrification of fleets has spread to other truck types and to underground mining machinery. “Innovation for Cleaner and Safer Vehicles”, an initiative by the International Council of Mining and Metals, brings mining companies together with many of the world’s largest mining truck manufacturers in a non-competitive space with the aim to accelerate the decarbonization of mining fleets. 
An Aurubis initiative pulls another lever at the Hamburg
plant by using hydrogen instead of natural gas for the 
reduction process in its anode furnaces; from this, the German copper producer expects to reduce CO2 emission by around 5 thousand tons per year (Aurubis, 2023). Figure 1 : Global Scope 1, 2 and 3 copper CO2e emissions, 2018
(million tons). Adapted figure from ICA. 
How recycling contributes to the 
decarbonization of copper production
The availability of secondary material is a key limiting 
factor. Over the period from 2000 to 2020, the EoL recycling input rates averaged around 15%. In its Pathway to Net Zero, the ICA estimates that the EoL recycling input rate could increase up to 23% over the next 30 years. Recycling copper can offer significant environmental          benefits, such as energy savings, reduced emissions of GHG and other pollutants, preservation of natural resources, and the prevention of valuable land from being used for        landfills. Production using recycled content avoids all the impacts from the mining step detailed above. 
However, as recycled copper rates are not expected to 
exceed 23%, recycling alone cannot be sufficient to cope with the growing global demand until 2050. For the same reason, it cannot be the main lever for copper decarbonization at a global scale. That being said, capturing and processing the cleanest scrap could serve as a closed loop example to minimize emissions. RecyCâbles,a joint venture between SUEZ and Nexans, was founded with the aim of collecting, recovering, and processing materials from used cables, including copper. Ensuring a closed loop business model, this aleady resulted in new cables with 99.9 % pure copper (SUEZ, 2024). 
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 2
Despite efforts to increase the input rate of recycled scrap 
in the copper production process, the World Bank Group 
has calculated that even a 100% EoL recycling rate would 
only reduce the demand for copper from primary sources 
by 26% by 2050 (The World Bank Group, 2020). This is 
mainly due to the fact that copper consumption has been 
growing since a century (practically doubling every 30 
years) and lifespan of products using copper is, on average, 
very long (25-30 years). What is recovered today is what 
was put into the market a few decades ago, when the 
demand was approximately half of what it is today.       
Additionally, no process is 100% efficient, and losses in the 
collection, separation, and re-processing of copper scrap 
will always exist. Therefore, copper produced from mineral 
ores will continue to play a decisive role in fulfilling the 
growing global needs.  
Copper as a significant component at 
Siemens Energy Grid Technologies
At Siemens Energy  Grid Technologies, copper plays a 
pivotal role in our commitment to reducing GHG          
emissions and advancing sustainability  within our 
supply chain . It is a major contributor to the GHG balance
of transformers, accounting for a minimum of 15% of its 
total GHG emissions, and depending on the design and 
copper content, this can increase to over one quarter of the 
GHG emissions from raw materials. Evidently, addressing 
the Global Warming Potential (GWP) of copper is essential 
in our overall decarbonization efforts. 
Recognizing that long-term decarbonization commitments, 
roadmaps, and actionable plans are essential for 
sustainable progress, our collaborative efforts with our 
partners such as the ICA and our copper suppliers are 
aimed at creating a common understanding within our 
industry, driving impactful decarbonization results, and 
fostering widespread acceptance of sustainable practices. 
As we navigate the copper transition, our dedication lies in Figure 2 : Global copper demand, scrap, 
2000 – 2050 (thousand tons). Adapted 
figure from ICA.
promoting closed-loop models to 
enhance circular efficiencies and, 
consequently, reduce the CO2 
footprint within the copper supply 
chain. We are committed to advo-
cating for the development of 
market conditions necessary for a 
successful green copper transition.
Together with Ørsted ,
Siemens Gamesa , and Circulor , 
we at Siemens Energy Grid 
Technologies have supported the 
end-to-end copper traceability 
used in transformers for wind
turbines. This initiative involves engagement across five 
tiers of the supply chain to identify component makers and 
material processors, as well as mine sites. Implemented
with Circulor’s blockchain technology for material 
traceability, this cross-value chain project enables full 
visibility of the copper material journey, promoting more 
responsible supply chains for climate and human rights, 
including the mining extraction of Responsible Minerals.
In this context, we are geared towards overcoming 
technological and economic challenges, further
emphasizing the importance of collaboration and
concerted efforts to create a more climate-responsive and 
human rights respecting economy. Through our dedication 
and collaborative approach, we are committed to advancing 
the decarbonization of copper, driving sustainability, and 
contributing to a greener, more environmentally
responsible future.
Even though this article mainly focuses on the decarbonization of 
copper production and GHG emissions are an important environmental 
indicator, other impact factors such as pollution and biodiversity as well 
as social and governance aspects must not be neglected.
This article is written with support and review of Fernando Nuño of the 
International Copper Association Europe.
© 2024 Siemens Energy    Page 3
 Sources
Aurubis (2023). H2-ready: Aurubis investing in hydrogen-capable anode 
furnaces in the Hamburg plant. URL: https://www.aurubis.com/en/me-
dia/press-releases/press-releases-2023/h2-ready-aurubis-investing-in-hy-
drogen-capable-anode-furnaces-in-the-hamburg-plant
Boliden (2018). Boliden launches electric mine-truck pilot project in 
Aitik. URL: https://investors.boliden.com/en/press/boliden-launches-
electric-mine-truck-pilot-project-aitik-1553771
ICA (2023). Copper - the pathway to net zero.
URL: https://internationalcopper.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/ICA-
GlobalDecarbonization-202301-Final-singlepgs.pdf
IEA (2023). Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions.
URL: https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/70f2de45-6d84-4e07-bfd0-
93833e205c81/ElectricityGridsandSecureEnergyTransitions.pdf
SUEZ (2024). RECYCABLES, the leading provider of cable waste
recovery. URL: https://www.suez.com/en/our-offering/success-stories/our-
references/recycables-provider-of-waste-cable-recovery
The World Bank Group (2020). Minerals for Climate Action: The Mineral 
lntensity of the Clean Energy Transition.
© 2024 Siemens Energy    Page 4
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Grid Technologies  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany 
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/transmission
or contact us: support.energy@siemens-energy.com
© 2024 Siemens Energy
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, lnc. 
Grid Technologies  
8841 Wadford Drive  
Raleigh, NC  
USA 
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 5
