Sustainability in  
the Supply Chain
Siemens Energy Code of Conduct 
for Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries
siemens-energy.com
2  3Dr. Anita Schieffer
Group Compliance Officer | Human 
Rights OfficerBarbara Buttinger
Head of Siemens Energy ProcurementDr. Christian Bruch
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
Siemens Energy AG | Chief Sustainability 
Officer of Siemens Energy AGForeword
Sustainability requires close cooperation with 
our suppliers and third party intermediaries
As a global company present in more than 90 countries 
worldwide, we are conscious of the impact our activities 
have on the people who work for and with us, on our 
suppliers as well as on local communities and the 
environment. Sustainability results from our company 
values of being caring, agile, respectful, and accountable 
and is core to our company’s culture and strategy.
Our people and culture provide the strong foundation upon 
which we can lead the energy transition and make a 
difference for our customers, investors, suppliers, partners, 
employees and society. As one-sixth of the world’s 
electricity is generated by an installed base of more than 
90,000 units delivered by Siemens Energy this puts us in  
a unique position to support societies around the world to 
successfully meet the growing need for sustainable, 
reliable, and affordable energy.
A competitive, globally balanced and localized network for 
suppliers and third party intermediaries is a precondition 
for further growth and success of Siemens Energy on a 
global scale. Therefore, these partners play a key role in  
a value chain focused on sustainability. Only in close 
cooperation with all stakeholders can we seize the 
opportunities and minimize risks associated with the 
challenge of sustainable development.
Siemens Energy conducts business responsibly and in 
compliance with the legal requirements and governmental 
regulations of the countries in which we operate. 
Therefore, Siemens Energy expects its employees and 
managers, suppliers and third party intermediaries to 
comply with all applicable laws and regulations based on 
– amongst others – the International Bill of Human Rights, Core Labor Standards of the International Labor 
Organisation, the UN Convention against Corruption and 
OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public 
Officials in International Business Transactions.
Siemens Energy wishes to be perceived as an integral part 
of the national society and economy of each country in 
which we operate. Due to the huge diversity of conditions 
in which we purchase goods and services, this maxim of 
Siemens Energy‘s business policy is considered in the 
principles of our Code of Conduct. It is based on – among 
others – the ten principles of the United Nations Global 
Compact but also reflects the Siemens Energy “Business 
Conduct Guidelines”, which establishes fundamental 
principles of sustainability and apply to the entire company. 
We require commitment to our Code of Conduct from all 
our suppliers and third party intermediaries and have made 
responsible business practices a core element of our 
Supplier Management processes. Therefore, it is our 
declared objective to closely cooperate to make sustainability 
a fundamental part of our business relationships.  
This includes a clear commitment to clean business.
On the following pages you will find information about  
our approach to Sustainability in the Supply Chain, a set of 
commonly accepted rules and regulations, as well as 
practical help in implementing sustainable business 
practices. We are asking you to join us on our path to 
sustainability for the benefit of the generations to come. 
This brochure is addressed to suppliers and third party 
intermediaries. For simplification purposes the term 
“partner” is used for both. If “suppliers” or “third party 
intermediaries” are meant exclusively, in this brochure  
the respective term will be used.

4  5Siemens Energy  
Code of Conduct
This Code of Conduct defines the basic 
requirements placed on the suppliers and third-
party intermediaries of Siemens Energy concerning 
their responsibilities towards their stakeholders and 
the environment. The supplier and/or third-party 
intermediary declares herewith to:
Legal Compliance
• Comply with the laws and regulations of the applicable 
legal systems.
Human Rights
To ensure respect of all internationally proclaimed human 
rights by avoiding causation of and complicity in any 
human rights violations. Heightened attention shall be  
paid to ensuring respect of human rights of specifically 
vulnerable rights holders, such as women, children or 
migrant workers, or of (indigenous) communities.
Prohibition of Forced Labor
• Neither use nor contribute to slavery, servitude, forced 
or compulsory labor, oppression, exploitation and 
human trafficking.
Prohibition of Child Labor
• Employ no workers under the age of which compulsory 
schooling ends according to the law of the place of 
employment, provided that the age of employment is 
not less than 15 years or, in those countries subject to 
the developing country exception of the ILO Convention 
138, employ no workers under the age of 14.
• Employ no workers under the age of 18 for hazardous 
work according to ILO Convention 182.Non-Discrimination and Respect in employment
• Ensure equal treatment  of employees, irrespective of 
skin color, race, nationality, ethnicity, social  background, 
health status, disabilities, gender, sexual identity and 
orientation, marital status, political opinion, ideological 
or religious conviction, belief, or age, and promote their 
equal opportunities.
• Refuse to  tolerate any unacceptable treatment of individuals 
such as mental cruelty, sexual harassment or discrimination 
including gestures, language and physical contact, that is 
sexual, coercive, threatening, abusive or exploitative.
• Refrain from unnecessary restriction on freedom of 
movement, except for safety and security requirements.
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
• Recognize the legal rights of workers to form or join 
trade unions and to engage in collective bargaining; 
neither disadvantage nor prefer members of employee 
organizations or trade unions.
Working Hours & Wages for Employees
• Adhere to all applicable working-hours and rest  
breaks regulations.
• Pay fair, at least minimum, wages required by applicable law.
• In the event of cross-border personnel deployment 
adhere to all applicable legal requirements.Life, Health & Safety of Employees
• Act in accordance with the applicable statutory and 
international standards regarding occupational health 
and safety and provide safe working conditions and, 
where applicable, adequate accommodation to 
safeguard health and wellbeing of employees.
• Provide training and instruction to ensure employees  
are educated in health and safety issues.
• Establish and apply a reasonable occupational  
health & safety management system¹.
Impact on communities
• Refrain from unlawful eviction and / or unlawful 
deprivation of land, forests and waters.
Security Forces
• When using private or state security forces, ensure that 
the human rights of employees and other rights holders 
are respected (in particular, no use of physical or 
psychological force, except in case of legitimate self-
defense).
Environmental and 
Climate Protection, Protection 
of Natural Resources
• Act in accordance with the applicable statutory and 
international standards regarding the environment.
• Minimize environmental pollution and make continuous 
improvements in environmental protection.
• Establish a reasonable environmental  
management system¹.
• Not cause harmful soil change, water pollution, air 
pollution, harmful noise emission or excessive water 
consumption, which significantly impairs the basic 
existential needs or harms the health of a person.
• Reduce waste and ensure their proper treatment  
and disposal.
Fair Operating Practices
Anti-Corruption and Bribery
• Tolerate no form of and do not engage directly or 
indirectly in any form of corruption or bribery and do  
not grant, offer or promise anything of value to a 
government official or to a counterparty in the private 
sector to influence official action or obtain an improper 
advantage. This includes to renounce from giving or 
accepting improper facilitation payments.
Fair Competition, Antitrust Laws and Intellectual 
Property Rights
• Act in accordance with national and international 
competition laws and do not participate in price fixing, market or customer allocation, market sharing or bid 
rigging with competitors.
• Respect the intellectual property rights of others.
Conflicts of Interest
• Avoid and/or disclose internally and to Siemens Energy 
all conflicts of interest that may influence business 
relationships, and to avoid already the appearance thereof.
Anti-Money Laundering, Terrorism Financing
• Not directly or indirectly facilitate money laundering  
or terrorism financing.
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
• Process personal data confidentially and responsibly, 
respect everyone’s privacy and ensure that personal  
data is effectively protected and used only for  
legitimate purposes.
• Commit to have an adequate Cybersecurity  
management framework established in its organization 
based on good industry practice, to ensure the 
confidentiality, authenticity, integrity, and availability  
of data, processes, products, systems and services.
Foreign Trade Regulations
• Comply with the applicable export, import, customs  
and foreign trade regulations.
Responsible Minerals Sourcing
• Take reasonable efforts to avoid in its products the use  
of raw materials which originate from Conflict-Affected 
and High-Risk Areas and contribute to human rights 
abuses, corruption, the financing of armed groups or 
similar negative effects.
Grievance Mechanism
• Provide access to a protected mechanism for their 
employees to report possible violations of the principles 
of this Code of Conduct.
• Ensure protection of reporters or whistleblowers against 
any kind of retaliation.
Supply Chain
• Take reasonable measures to make its suppliers comply 
with the principles of this Code of Conduct and to verify 
this on a risk basis.
• Comply with the principles of non-discrimination with 
regard to supplier selection and treatment.
1 https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/about/supply-
chain-management/sustainability-in-the-supply-chain/
ehs-management-systeme.html
6  7
22  Fair Operating Practices  
 22 Prohibition of Corruption and Bribery  
 24 Respect Fair Competition, Antitrust Laws 
  and Intellectual Property Rights  
 24 Avoidance of Conflicts of Interest  
 26 Prohibition of Money Laundering and  
  Terrorism Financing  
 27 Respect Data Privacy  
 28 Cybersecurity  
 29 Abidance by Foreign Trade Regulations  
 30 Responsible Minerals Sourcing  
 32 Grievance Mechanism of the Partner
34  Supply Chain of the Partner
36  Sustainability in Supplier Management37  Contractual Obligation
38  Supplier Sustainability Risk Detection  
 Modules
40  Supplier Sustainability Risk Mitigation –  
 Consequences of Deviations
42  Supplier Training and Capacity Building
44  Trustworthy Third Party Relationships
45  Siemens Energy’s Books and Records  
 Requirements
47  Purpose and Approach of On-site Audit
48  How to report allegations of Siemens  
 Energy’s wrongdoing03  Foreword
04  Code of Conduct
08  Sustainability in the Supply Chain
10  Siemens Energy Values and Legal  
 Requirements
12  Legal Compliance13  Human Rights  
 14 Prohibition of Forced Labor  
 15 Prohibition of Child Labor  
 15 Non-Discrimination and Respect  
  in Employment  
 16 Freedom of Association and Collective  
  Bargaining  
 16 Working Hours & Wages for Employees  
 17 Life, Health & Safety of Employees  
 18 Health and safety management system  
 18 Impact on communities  
 19 Security Forces
20  Environmental and Climate Protection,  
  Protection of Natural Resources  
 21 Environmental management systemIntroduction
Explanation of the  
Code of ConductSpecific Information for  
Siemens Energy SuppliersSpecific Information for  
Third Party Intermediaries8
1236 44
8  9
Business
Environment SocietySustainability
Here are some examples:
• We actively contribute to forward looking development 
at our locations.
• All of our products have to be engineered and 
manufactured in such a way that they pose no threat to 
life, limb or property.
• Our responsibility extends not only to Siemens Energy, 
but to our value chain and to society.
• With our portfolio and environmental work, we make 
effective contributions to climate protection.
• We act with integrity in business, and our behavior 
complies with our moral principles and values.significantly shaping our business by creating 
new markets and opening up valuable new 
opportunities. Yet they also harbor significant 
risks that need careful management. Only a 
value-based, sustainability-driven company 
committed to living its principles can minimize 
these risks and master these challenges to 
optimally leverage emerging opportunities for  
its stakeholders.
Sustainability is not new for Siemens Energy. 
Acting as a responsible and accountable 
company has always been part of our 
philosophy. This is why we take a stand today  
on our commitments.Seize opportunities, minimize risks, live our 
values. For us, sustainability means acting 
responsibly on behalf of future generations  
in order to achieve economic, environmental 
and social progress. The global trends – 
demographic change, urbanization, climate 
change, globalization and digitalization – are 
affecting and defining lives and economies 
throughout the world. These trends are Sustainability in  
the Supply Chain
Sustainability in the Supply Chain |  
Supply Chain Management | Siemens Energy 
Global (siemens-energy.com)
Purchased products and services account for 
almost two thirds of our total revenue. As our 
suppliers play a critical role in our sustainability-
oriented value chain, Siemens Energy expects 
them also to demonstrate their commitment 
towards these standards and principles which 
are summarized in the Code of Conduct. Introduction
10  11Introduction
Siemens Energy 
Values and Legal 
Requirements
Our understanding of sustainability is fully  
based on our company values of being caring, 
agile, respectful and accountable. Siemens 
Energy’s sustainability initiatives are an essential 
aspect of successfully implementing the Siemens 
Energy strategy. At Siemens Energy, we define 
sustainable development as the means to achieve 
profitable and long-term growth. In doing so, we 
align ourselves with the goals of the UN’s 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises  
as well as with the United Nations’ Guiding 
principles for business and human rights.
Siemens Energy Code of Conduct is based to  
a great extent on the ten principles of the UN 
Global Compact relating to human rights, labor 
standards, environmental protection and anti-
corruption initiatives. These principles are 
derived from the Universal Declaration of  
Human Rights, the Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work of the International 
Labor Organization (ILO) and the principles of 
the Rio Declaration on Environment and 
Development.According to the UN Global Compact,  
the “supply chain can make a significant impact 
in promoting human rights, fair labor practices, 
environmental progress and anti-corruption 
policies”. Some of the biggest contributions can 
be made to the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDG), especially regarding 
SDG 8 on Decent Work and Economic Growth, 
which among other things addresses labor 
issues, and SDG 12 on Responsible Consumption 
and Production. SDG 12 specifically calls on 
companies to work to adopt sustainable 
practices and increase reporting on their 
progress too. Efforts can be made to address 
poor working conditions, ranging from minimum 
wage violations to extreme occupational 
hazards, and eradicate all forms of forced labor 
and child labor. Unhealthy workplaces can be 
cleaned up.
In the last decade numerous pieces of legislation 
were published and require our absolute 
attention. Besides others, EU law on human 
rights and environmental protection came into 
effect as well as legislation in USA, UK, France, 
Australia, and Germany.Some examples:
• European Union: Regulation concerning the Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals 
(REACh), Regulation concerning Restriction of Hazardous 
Substances (RoHS), Timber Regulation, F-Gases 
Regulation, Conflict Minerals Regulation; CSR Reporting 
Obligations Directive in 2014 and Conflict Minerals 
Regulation in 2017, EU- Taxonomy for sustainable 
activities 2020, Corporate Sustainability Reporting 
Directive 2022, Corporate Sustainable Due Diligence 
Directive  expected 2023/2024 
• United States of America: Dodd-Frank Act, Sec 1502 
“Conflict Minerals” 2010, California Transparency in 
Supply Chains Act 2012, Business Supply Chain 
Transparency on Trafficking and Slavery Act 2015 • Germany: Supply Chain Due Diligence Act 2021
• United Kingdom: Modern Slavery Act 2015
• France: Loi de Vigilance 2017
• Australia: Modern Slavery Act 2018
• Netherlands: Child Labour Due Diligence Law 2019
• Norway Transparency Act 2021

12  13
Explanation of the Code of Conduct
Siemens Energy conducts business responsibly and in compliance with the legal requirements and 
governmental regulations of the countries in which we operate. Therefore, the company will under 
no circumstances tolerate illegal or noncompliant behavior. We have set ourselves globally-binding 
Business Conduct Guidelines that require all employees and managers to behave in an ethical, 
law-abiding manner. Equally, Siemens Energy expects its partners to comply with all applicable  
laws and regulations.
The Code of Conduct requires all Siemens Energy 
partners to ensure respect of all internationally 
proclaimed human rights by avoiding causation 
of and complicity in any human rights violations.
The core internationally recognized human 
rights are contained in the International Bill of 
Human Rights (consisting of the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, the International 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the 
International Covenant on Economic, Social and 
Cultural Rights, coupled with the principles 
concerning fundamental rights in the eight ILO 
core conventions as set out in the Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work) and are increasingly regulated also in national 
legislation such as the German Supply Chain  
Due Diligence Act. Partners should pay 
heightened attention to ensuring respect of 
human rights of particularly vulnerable rights 
holders or groups of rights holders such as 
women, children or migrant workers, or of 
(indigenous) communities. Required focus of 
increased attention will depend on the specific 
situation and circumstances the partners operate 
within. Specifically, Siemens Energy expects its 
partners to respect the fundamental employment 
rights set out in international conventions of the 
United Nations (UN) and the International Labor 
Organization (ILO).
Human RightsLegal Compliance
14  15Explanation of the Code of Conduct
 Explanation of the Code of Conduct
Prohibition of Forced Labor
We demand the elimination of all forms of 
forced labor to which our partners must 
contribute to by implementing appropriate 
measures and control mechanisms – not only 
within their own organization but also in 
their supply chain, e.g., when using Labor 
Brokers, Temporary Employment Agencies, 
etc. Under no circumstances we accept that 
e.g., employees’ IDs or passports are 
confiscated, the freedom of workers to 
terminate their employment or to leave the 
site at the end of the working day is 
restricted, salaries not paid periodically or in 
too long periods, physical or psychological 
pressure put on employees or their families.Prohibition of Child Labor
Siemens Energy expects its partners to only 
employ workers with a minimum age of 15.  
This minimum employment age is laid down in 
several conventions of the International Labor 
Organization (ILO). These conventions regulate 
internationally valid lower limits. If a higher 
minimum employment age is valid in the 
country in which a partner maintains its business 
premises, then the partner must adhere to it.  
In exceptional cases only, we will accept a 
minimum age of 14 provided that a statutory 
minimum age of 14 applies under ILO 
Convention 138 in the country where the 
affected partner maintains its business 
establishment. For hazardous work according  
to ILO Convention 182, an age limit of  
18 years is essential.
We expect you as our partner to:
• Employ no workers under the age of which compulsory 
schooling ends according to the law of the place of 
employment, provided that the age of employment is 
not less than 15 years, or, in those countries subject to 
the developing country exception of the ILO convention 
138, employ no workers under the age of 14.
• Employ no workers under the age of 18 for hazardous 
work according to ILO Convention 182.
• Verify dates of birth and document them in the 
personnel files, when appointing new employees.Non-Discrimination and Respect 
in Employment
Our partners shall ensure equal treatment of 
employees during the recruiting process and 
their employment period, irrespective of skin 
color, race, nationality, ethnicity, social 
background, health status, disabilities, gender, 
sexual identity and orientation, marital status, 
political opinion, ideological or religious 
conviction, belief, or age and promote their 
equal opportunities.
Our partners shall refuse to tolerate any 
unacceptable treatment of individuals such  
as mental cruelty, sexual harassment or 
discrimination including gestures, language  
and physical contact, that is sexual, coercive, 
threatening, abusive or exploitative.
Our partners shall refrain from unnecessary 
restriction on freedom of movement, except  
for safety and security requirements.
We expect you as our partner to:
• Have internal regulations governing respect for 
applicable employment rights.
• Abide by the principles of equal opportunities and equal 
treatment, and implement internal regulations created 
for this purpose, when hiring employees, and in other 
personnel-related activities such as training and 
continuing professional development and advancement. 
For example, discrimination, based on e.g., race or skin 
color, is prohibited within your company.
• Not restrict the freedom of movement of workers,  
except for safety or security reasons. 
• Have established internal rules for the fair treatment of 
others and monitor their observance. Your employees 
are free to lodge complaints with their superiors without 
fear of reprisal.We expect you as our partner to:
• Neither use nor contribute to slavery, servitude, forced 
or compulsory labor, oppression, exploitation and 
human trafficking.
• Not confiscate IDs or passports.
• Respect the freedom of movement of workers, to leave 
the site at the end of the working day or to terminate 
their employment from unnecessary restriction.
• Implement respective control mechanisms in their own 
supply chain.

16  17Explanation of the Code of Conduct
Working Hours & 
Wages for Employees
Everyone has the right to fair remuneration 
ensuring for themselves and their families an 
existence worthy of human dignity.
Our partners, therefore, must pay appropriate 
wages and ensure reasonable limitation of 
working hours and regular paid vacation.  
In the event of cross-border personnel 
deployment all applicable legal requirements 
must be adhered to.
We expect you as our partner to:
• Adhere to all applicable working-hours regulations 
globally.
• Pay fair, at least minimum, wages required by  
applicable law.
• In the event of cross-border personnel deployment 
adhere to all applicable legal requirements.
• Implement internal procedures to ensure that applicable 
working hours and rest breaks are adhered to, and 
payment of adequate living wages is ensured.Life, Health & 
Safety of Employees
Siemens Energy expects its partners to take 
responsibility for the health and safety of their 
employees.
We expect you as our partner to fulfill 
minimum requirements regarding health  
and safety for employees, depending on  
the category (see chapter “Health and  
safety management system – categorization 
according to the supplier’s size or type  
of activities”):
• There is a clear commitment by management to 
occupational health and safety.
• You act in accordance with the applicable statutory  
and international standards regarding occupational 
health and safety and provide safe working conditions 
and, where applicable, adequate accommodation to 
safeguard health and wellbeing of employees.
• You take measures to prevent accidents on building  
sites, in plants and in projects.
• You eliminate unsafe and dangerous  
conditions immediately.
• You control hazards and take the best possible 
precautionary measures against accidents  
and occupational diseases, which means assessing 
hazards and effects of activities, products and services 
and implementing appropriate measures to eliminate  
or minimize the risks and their effects as far as possible.
• You regularly develop minimum requirements further 
internally and keep your suppliers informed about them.
• You have a person who is responsible for occupational 
health and safety matters and who trains and educates 
your employees.• You support your suppliers actively in implementing 
these standards. If a supplier repeatedly or seriously 
breaches these standards, you exclude this supplier  
from further business transactions.
• You have an occupational health and safety 
management system in place in accordance with  
ISO 45001 or equivalent. Implementing an occupational 
health and safety management system includes risk 
assessment, risk minimization, systematic and complete 
description of process workflows, identification of 
requirements and efficient implementation, regular 
monitoring and assessment. In addition, our partners 
must adhere actively to the principles of occupational 
health and safety, both when selecting suppliers and  
in the conduct of their business relationships.
We defined stricter “Occupational Health and 
Safety Standards” for our contractors and made 
them mandatory in our procurement contracts. 
Important parts of this standard are the strict 
supplier selection and intensive trainings in each 
case before the contractor starts working on a 
Siemens Energy site/project.Freedom of Association 
and Collective Bargaining
Our partners shall recognize the legal rights of 
workers to form or join existing trade unions and 
to engage in collective bargaining; neither 
disadvantage nor prefer members of employee 
organizations or trade unions.
We expect you as our partner to:
• Recognize the legal rights of workers to form or join 
existing trade unions and to engage in collective 
bargaining; neither disadvantage nor prefer members  
of employee organizations or trade unions.
• Have established internal rules and procedures to  
avoid that those employees, who engage in collective 
bargaining are disadvantaged or can be dismissed 
without objective reasons.

18  19
Explanation of the Code of Conduct
Health and Safety Management 
System – Categorization 
According to the Supplier’s Size 
or Type of Activities
The supplier’s relevance and responsibility in 
terms of occupational health and safety depends 
essentially on the type of activities that its 
employees perform.  A distinction is therefore 
made between suppliers that perform solely 
administrative/management or advisory 
functions, e.g. sales- and marketing-related 
activities (category 1), and those that also 
manufacture products or in any other way 
process or rework products (category 2 or 3).
Category 1 suppliers are expected to provide 
evidence of compliance with following 
occupational health and safety requirements:
• Availability of safety specialists.
• Instruction and training for employees.
• Conduct risk assessments and risk control measures.
In addition to requirements in Category 1,  
we expect Category 2 suppliers to provide: 
• Written statement of commitment to occupational 
health and safety by the company‘s management.
• Written assessment of and plan for compliance  
with legal requirements.
• Written emergency plan.
Additionally, Category 3 suppliers have to show 
evidence of implementation of an occupational 
health and safety management system.Security Forces
When we engage a private or public security 
provider to protect our facilities, we expect that 
appropriate requirements and measures are 
taken through appropriate instruction and 
monitoring, and that security personnel respects 
internationally recognized human rights during 
their deployment. The protection of our facilities 
or projects must not involve torture, cruel, 
inhuman or degrading treatment, injury to life 
and limb or interference with freedom of 
association. Siemens Energy expects its partners 
to ensure that the human rights of employees and 
other rights holders are respected when using 
private security providers or state security forces.We expect you as our partner to:
• When using private security providers or state security 
forces, ensure that the human rights of employees and 
other rights holders are respected (in particular, no use 
of physical or psychological force, except in case of 
legitimate self-defense).
• Implement internal procedures to ensure that  
security personnel respects human rights through  
their deployment.Impact On Communities
Siemens Energy respects the human rights of 
local communities and indigenous people who 
may be affected by our business activities and 
considers the local impacts of our operations. 
We do not engage in the unlawful taking of land, 
forests and waters and expect our partners to 
responsible and respectful treatment of local 
communities that may be affected by their 
business activities.
We expect you as our partner to:
• Refrain from unlawful eviction and / or unlawful 
deprivation of land, forests and waters, the use of  
which secures the livelihood of a person.
• Have established internal rules and procedures to ensure 
that human rights of local communities and indigenous 
people are respected and that no unlawful deprivation of 
land, forests, and waters is caused.
20  21Siemens Energy expects its partners to act in 
accordance with the applicable statutory and 
international standards regarding environmental 
protection in order to minimize adverse 
environmental impacts and make continuous 
improvements in environmental protection.  
Our partners shall not cause harmful soil 
change, water pollution, air pollution, harmful 
noise emission or excessive water consumption, 
which significantly impairs the basic existential 
needs or harms the health of a person. Siemens 
Energy expects its partners to reduce waste and 
ensure their proper treatment and disposal.
Siemens Energy‘s environmental protection 
policy is based on global standards for 
environmental management. Where our 
products are  concerned, we take a holistic 
approach to environmental protection, ensuring 
that all products are environmentally compatible 
during the whole product life cycle, from 
development through manufacturing and use,  
to reuse, recycling or disposal.  
We also expect you, our partners, to make every 
effort to protect the environment, and to keep 
the impact your activities have on it as low as 
possible. Among other things, we expect your 
environmental management policy to include 
the efficient use of energy and other resources. 
We need your contribution, as a partner,  to actively support us in implementing the Code 
of Conduct regarding environmental protection 
(See also chapter “Environmental management 
system – categorization according to the 
supplier’s environmental relevance”):
We expect you as our partner to:
• Have a process, or an organization of your own,  
that ensures compliance with statutory regulations and 
customer requirements governing operational and 
product related environmental protection.
• Document, implement and regularly check, all approvals 
and/or licenses required for the operation of your sites.
• Have a suitable management system (e.g. an ISO 
14001-compliant or equivalent system) of environmental 
protection in place.
• Not cause harmful soil change, water pollution, air 
pollution, harmful noise emission or excessive water 
consumption, which significantly impairs the basic 
existential needs (as for instance access to food, safe 
drinking water or sanitary facilities) or harms the health 
of a person.
• Reduce waste and ensure their proper treatment and 
disposal.Have rules, guidelines, internal standards or 
similar governing product related environmental 
protection, for example with regard to product design, 
restrictions on materials, labeling, information 
obligations, reuse, recycling, environmentally compatible 
product use, maintenance and disposal and, where 
applicable, measures for protection against hazardous 
substances, and train your employees accordingly.Environmental and 
Climate Protection, 
Protection of  
Natural Resources
Environmental 
Management System –
Categorization According 
to the Supplier’s 
Environmental Relevance 
The supplier’s relevance and responsibility in 
terms of environmental protection depends 
essentially on the type of activities (e.g. 
production, services, project work) and the 
resources being used. A distinction is therefore 
made between suppliers that perform solely 
administrative / management or advisory 
functions, e.g. sales-, IT- and marketing related 
activities (category 1), and those that have a 
higher environmental impact (category 2 or 
3): suppliers with low environmental relevance 
are assigned to category 1 irrespective of the 
industry in which they operate.
For category 2 suppliers, a formalized 
environmental management system is required 
which shall include ISO 14001-elements,  
for example:
• An environmental policy.
• Definition of roles & responsibilities for  
environmental protection.• Ensuring that employees and managers with 
responsibilities concerning environmental protection or 
whose activities can have an environmental impact are 
qualified and act accordingly.
• Records of environmental training.
• Emergency preparedness and response.
• Regular monitoring of operations with significant 
environmental impacts.
Category 3 suppliers have a high environmental 
relevance and, therefore, have to implement an 
environmental management system like suppliers 
of category 2. They additionally have to achieve 
an ISO 14001 certification or an EMAS validation.Explanation of the Code of Conduct

22  23Fair Operating 
PracticesExplanation of the Code of Conduct
Siemens Energy conducts business responsibly 
and in compliance with the legal requirements 
and governmental regulations of the countries 
in which we operate and expects its partners to 
comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
To ensure compliance with laws we expect 
you to:
• Set up, implement and maintain a company-wide 
appropriate compliance program or process which 
reflects the company’s size and risks.
• Define binding rules for all employees, including rules 
governing the offering and acceptance of gifts.
• Provide your employees with regular training in  
respect of important compliance issues.
• Appropriately respond to compliance violations.
• Impose a contractual obligation on your suppliers  
to comply with the law, in particular the provisions 
governing corruption, and monitor adherence to it.
• Emphasize the responsibility of the executive 
management for compliance matters. Prohibition of Corruption 
and Bribery
Siemens Energy does not tolerate any form of 
corruption in its business dealings anywhere in  
the world. This includes Siemens Energy 
business dealings through our external partners.
Bribery. The most common form of corruption  
is bribery. Bribery is a criminal offense 
worldwide. Siemens Energy strictly prohibits its 
partners from any form of bribery, i.e. from 
directly or indirectly offering, promising, 
granting or authorizing the giving of money or 
anything else of value to a government official 
or to a counterparty in the private sector to 
influence official action or obtain an improper 
advantage for Siemens Energy.  
Any offer, promise, grant or gift made by a 
partner in connection with Siemens Energy 
business must comply with applicable laws and 
must not create an appearance of bad faith or 
impropriety.Specifically, outgoing payments 
must be used lawfully.
Facilitation Payments. Bribery also covers 
facilitation payments. A facilitation payment is  
a relatively small amount of money, or the 
granting of any other benefit, usually to 
low-ranking public officials,for their personal 
benefit or to expedite the performance or a 
routine governmental action. Facilitation 
payments are prohibited and can be prosecuted.
Gifts, Hospitality and other Benefits. In many 
cultures, gifts and invitations to entertainment 
events are important for developing and 
deepening business relationships. However, 
some gifts and invitations may unreasonably 
influence the recipient’s decision-making or 
create the appearance of improper influence.
Gifts, hospitality and other benefits must 
always be in accordance with applicable laws 
and regulations. In any case they must:
• Be transparent and correctly recorded in the company’s 
books and records.
• Be appropriate in terms of type, value, and frequency  
to the occasion and the position of the recipient.
• Not be offered, provided, demanded or accepted with 
the expectation of any type of advantage.
• Never give the appearance of dishonesty  
or inappropriateness
Counterparts, especially public officials, often 
have their own internal rules that restrict their 
ability to accept gifts and hospitality. These rules 
can be very strict and must be followed.
Travel Expenses. Companies may be required  
to pay third party travel expenses for certain 
business transactions. However, excessive 
reimbursement may inappropriately influence 
the recipient or at least create the appearance  
of influence.Sponsorship, Donations, Contributions and 
Memberships. Sponsorships, donations, 
charitable contributions, and memberships can 
be important to social commitment and the 
pursuit of corporate goals. They:
• Must be carefully examined to determine whether  
they promote the company’s legitimate objectives.
• May not be promised, offered, or made to obtain 
improper business advantages or for other unethical 
purposes.
• Must be religiously and politically neutral in connection 
with Siemens Energy business.
Involvement of Third Parties.  There are many 
legitimate reasons for involving third parties in 
business relationships. However, the use of third 
parties to unlawfully or improperly influence 
public officials or private individuals is prohibited. 
Therefore, we expect our partners to check 
relevant third parties at the beginning of their 
activities and to monitor them during business 
relationships.
To prevent, detect and deter violations of any 
applicable law, particularly such relating to anti-
corruption, Siemens Energy deems it necessary 
that our partners maintain books, records and 
accounts which accurately reflect any and all 
payments made, expenses incurred, and assets 
disposed of and to maintain an internal control 
system to ensure the proper authorization, 
recording and reporting of all transactions.¹
We expect you as our partner to:
• Use accounts or funds only for legitimate purposes.
• Make payments only if they are lawful and have 
legitimate purposes.
• Make payments only with proper documentation.
1 see p. 44-46, Information for Third Party Intermediaries
24  25Explanation of the Code of Conduct
Respect Fair Competition, 
Antitrust Laws and Intellectual 
Property Rights
Siemens Energy conducts business responsibly 
and in compliance with the legal requirements 
and governmental regulations of the countries 
in which we operate. Therefore, Siemens Energy 
expects its partners to comply with all applicable 
laws and regulations, in particular in the field of 
fair competition and antitrust and to respect the 
intellectual property rights of others.
Antitrust law protects free, undistorted,  
and effective competition for the benefit of 
customers, companies, and society as a whole. 
Antitrust laws, amongst others, prohibit 
agreements and concerted practices between 
companies that restrict competition.  
Anticompetitive agreements include price  
fixing, market, customer, or territory allocations,  
and bid rigging with competitors. Abusing a 
dominant position is also prohibited.
Siemens Energy has a strict policy to act in 
compliance with antitrust laws and expects its 
contractual partners to do the same.  
Inter alia, we expect you to handle confidential 
information from Siemens Energy and third-
parties, such as competitors, customers, and 
sales partners, with care. Furthermore,  
Siemens Energy expects its partners to respect 
intellectual property rights of others, e.g. 
copyrights, patents and, trademarks and trade secrets and to act within the limits of licenses 
granted (e.g. with respect to software).
We expect you as our partner to:
• Act in accordance with national and international 
antitrust laws and e.g. not to participate in price fixing, 
market, customer, territory allocations or bid rigging 
with competitors.
• Respect trade secrets and the intellectual property  
rights of others.
Avoidance of Conflicts of Interest
Employees should always act in the best interest 
of their company. Therefore, a conflict of interest 
exists if the interests of an individual or of their 
close personal relations diverge from those of 
the company to which the individual belongs.
Conflicts of interest can hinder the success of  
a company, lead to economic damages and also 
tarnish the company’s reputation if they become 
public, for instance, if the conflict of interest 
leads to uneconomical decisions, if customers 
are lost because they lose confidence in the 
integrity of the company or if restricted information is disclosed as a result. In some 
cases, conflicts of interest might also bear 
corruption or antitrust risks.
Accordingly, employees should have no 
relationship, financial or otherwise, with anyone 
that conflicts, or appears to conflict, with the 
employees’ obligation to act in the best interest 
of their company.
Therefore, it should be our common goal to 
avoid situations of conflicts of interests and  
to create awareness for such situations.
We expect you as our partner to:
• Make business decisions in the best interest of the 
company and not on the basis of personal interests.
• Anticipate and avoid situations in which the appearance 
of a conflict of interest may arise.
• Avoid engaging companies with which personal interest 
exist if it could personally benefit the partner.
• Inform Siemens Energy of any personal interest that 
might exist in connection with the business relationship.• Establish measures which prevent conflict of interests.
• Avoid that your employees use their position to offer 
gifts, invitations or other advantages to Siemens Energy 
employees or other third parties. This does not apply to 
occasional gifts of purely symbolic value or meals or 
entertainment of appropriate value.
The following questions can help an 
employee to assess whether there is a conflict 
or an appearance of a conflict:
• Is the decision we make for our company influenced  
by personal interests?
• What impression would the situation leave on third-
parties, such as customers, business partners, and 
investors?
• How would the public react to the business decision?

26  27Explanation of the Code of Conduct
Prohibition of Money Laundering 
and Terrorism Financing 
Money Laundering is the disguising of the origin 
of money or other assets obtained from criminal 
activities and their moving into the legitimate 
economy. In addition to monetary support, 
terrorism financing may include other assets 
such as goods or merchandise. Siemens Energy 
strives to maintain business relationships only with 
reputable customers, partners, and companies 
whose business activities comply with legal 
requirements and whose financial resources  
are of legitimate origin.We expect you as our partner to:
• Not facilitate money laundering or terrorism financing, 
directly or indirectly.
• Support us in identifying relevant shareholder(s), 
ultimate beneficial owner(s) and legal representative(s), 
when necessary.
• Take appropriate, risk-based measures to verify the 
identity and financial background of your customers, 
business partners, and other third parties, and the  
origin of payments to ensure they come from  
legitimate sources.
• Follow-up on suspicious business relationships, 
activities, and transactions immediately and report  
those to law enforcement authorities, when necessary.
Respect Data Privacy 
Personal data is information about specific  
or identifiable natural persons, such as name 
and address, photos, personnel number, bank 
data, digital identifiers, or health data.
The protection of personal data plays an 
important role in our digitized world. The loss or 
improper use of personal data can have serious 
consequences for the individuals concerned.  
It is therefore very important for Siemens Energy 
to ensure that this data is effectively protected 
and used only for legitimate purposes.  
All of us who handle the personal data of 
employees, customers, or third-parties bear  
a high level of responsibility.We expect you as our partner to:
• Collect and process personal data confidentially,  
only for legitimate, predetermined purposes, and in  
a transparent manner.
• Only process personal data if it is protected against loss, 
modification, and unauthorized use or disclosure by 
appropriate technical and organizational measures.
• Immediately inform our company’s local Data Protection 
Organization of possible data protection violations in 
connection with Siemens Energy business.
28  29Explanation of the Code of Conduct
Cybersecurity
In an in increasingly digital world, cybersecurity 
is what our customers expect from our products 
and what Siemens Energy expects from the 
products and services procured from our third 
party supplier partners. It is also essential in the 
energy market and in any evolving, strategically 
relevant ecosystem.
Cyber risk management is one of the key 
methods for handling risks to information 
technology, operational technology, and the 
products and solutions that Siemens Energy 
offers its customers.
Successful cyber risk management relies on 
partners that ensure a cyber resilient business 
model, continuous cybersecurity protection, 
availability thus minimizing the exposure to 
major cyber threats and/or security risks.We expect you as our partner to:
• Take appropriate organizational and technical measures 
to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and 
availability of Supplier Operations as well as products, 
solutions and services. These measures shall be 
consistent with good industry practice and shall include 
an appropriate information security management system 
consistent with standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or  
IEC 62443.
• Support and provide services to repair, update, upgrade 
and maintain products and services including the 
provision of patches to the vulnerabilities to be 
remediated for the reasonable lifetime of the products, 
solutions and services.
• Promptly report all relevant information security 
incidents occurred or suspected and vulnerabilities 
discovered in any Supplier Operations, services, 
solutions and/or products.
• On request, provide written evidence of its cybersecurity 
compliance including generally accepted audit reports 
(e.g., SSAE-16 SOC 2 Type II) and agreement to 
participate in Siemens Energy Third Party Risk 
Management supplier assessments.
• Have the same or equally effective protection measures 
in place to protect Siemens Energy information stored 
and/or processed within your IT systems and applications 
as the protection measures applied Siemens Energy IT 
systems and applications hosted on-our premises.Abidance by Foreign Trade 
Regulations
As a globally operating company, Siemens 
Energy must comply with a wide variety of 
national and international customs, export 
control, embargo regulations that govern and 
restrict the free movement of goods.  
Legal and related internal measures thereof are 
anchored in our Internal Control Program Export 
Control (ICP EX) as well as our Internal Control 
Program Customs (ICP CU).
Compliance with these regulations is essential  
to protect Siemens Energy and our global 
operations. In the same way Siemens Energy 
expects from its partners that the applicable 
foreign trade regulations are carefully complied 
with when goods are traded or transported, 
services are provided, or other technical 
know-how or software is transferred, including 
regulations on EU and US sanctions lists.We expect you as our partner to:
• Comply with the applicable export, import, customs  
and foreign trade regulations.
• Provide us the applicable product- related export control 
classification numbers, harmonized system numbers, 
country of origin and, if asked, for free trade preferential 
origin.
• Not purchase products from sanctioned persons, 
companies or organizations, and in order to be able to 
continue to jointly employ efficient and secure import 
and export processes, your support concerning customs 
related supply chain security programs and their 
requirements.

30  31Explanation of the Code of Conduct
Responsible Minerals Sourcing
Until the present day, trade with minerals in 
Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas (CAHRAs) 
is affected by violent conflicts and violation of 
human rights, especially in the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and its adjoining countries 
(the DRC region). The local population is facing 
systematic exploitation in the fight between 
armed groups for control of the mines and 
trading routes.
Siemens Energy is committed to ensuring that 
minerals contained in its products are sourced 
with due respect for human rights, that sourcing 
those minerals does not contribute to any risk 
defined in Annex 2 of the OECD Due Diligence 
Guidance, and that Siemens Energy’s supply chain 
practices support the  development in the CAHRAs.
Responsible Minerals Sourcing is the Siemens Energy 
commitment to working toward avoiding the use of 
minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas 
which are affected by the risks defined in Annex 2 of 
the OECD Due Diligence Guidance within our supply 
chain. The relevant minerals include but are not 
limited to tantalum, tin, tungsten, the ores from 
which they originate, and gold.
CAHRAs include but are not limited to the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Angola, Burundi, 
the Central African Republic, Rwanda, South Sudan, 
Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia. The mining of 
minerals represents one of the main sources of 
income for the local civilians in CAHRAs and is thus 
indispensable to them.  As such, imposing an embargo and stigmatizing 
the whole of the CAHRAs would most likely be an 
inappropriate response to this issue.  
However, transparency and the disclosure of 
information about minerals will allow purchasing 
decisions to be made consciously, thus  
supporting responsible sourcing.
Siemens Energy takes systematic steps to determine 
the use, source and origin of the relevant minerals in 
its supply chain and works closely with its direct 
suppliers in carrying out these steps.  
This information will also help Siemens Energy’s 
customers to fulfill the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) reporting requirements and 
content of the planned business relationship.
To ensure transparency within the supply chain, 
Siemens Energy expects suppliers to provide supply 
chain data so that Siemens Energy can identify 
smelters in its common supply chain. Siemens 
Energy suggests that its suppliers use the standard 
Conflict Minerals Reporting Template of the 
“Responsible Minerals Initiative” (RMI).
 Siemens Energy will compare smelters/refiners used 
by relevant suppliers against an independently 
verified list of smelters that use responsibly sourced 
minerals, identified through industry programs. 
Minerals originating from a smelter/refiner on this 
list can be deemed not to contribute to any conflict 
in CAHRAs.
Siemens Energy expects its suppliers to take 
every effort to avoid minerals that are not found 
to be sourced responsibly.We expect you as our partner to:
• Take reasonable efforts to avoid in its products the use of 
raw materials which originate from Conflict-Affected and 
High-Risk Areas and contribute to human rights abuses, 
corruption, the financing of armed groups or similar 
negative effects.
Further minerals will be added to our Supply 
Chain Due Diligence processes in accordance 
with our risk-based approach. You can also find the Siemens Energy 
Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy, which the 
company expects its suppliers to follow, at:
https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/
company/about/supply-chain-management/
sustainability-in-the-supply-chain/  
responsible-minerals.html

32  33
Grievance Mechanism 
of the Partner
Employees as well as other companies’ 
stakeholders need the possibility of reporting 
misconduct – also anonymously
We therefore require our partners to implement  
a protected grievance mechanism to report 
possible violations of the principles of this  
Code of Conduct. This grievance mechanism 
can, depending on the size of the company,  
vary from a complaint box to a sophisticated 
electronic tool and/or access to an external 
Ombudsperson.
The grievance mechanism must ensure 
anonymous reporting and must guarantee no 
negative consequences for all who report a 
possible misconduct or a reasonable suspicion.Practical actions for implementing a 
Grievance Mechanism may involve:
• Nominating a company responsible who is setting  
up a complaint process.
• A roadmap for remediation and resolving complaints.
• Timelines for resolving grievances.
• Processes to respond to complaints if agreement is not 
reached or if its impacts are particularly severe.
We expect you as our partner to:
• Provide access to a protected mechanism for your 
employees to report possible violations of the principles 
of this Code of Conduct
• Ensure protection of reporters or whistleblowers  
against any kind of retaliation.
34  35
Explanation of the Code of Conduct
Supply Chain of  
the Partner
For our partners too, a large proportion of the value 
added is generated in the supply chain. It is therefore 
important to us that our partners take active steps to 
promote and implement compliance with our Code 
of Conduct or their own equivalent code of conduct 
in their supply chain and verify this on a risk basis.
For this reason, we expect our partners not only 
to comply with the Code of Conduct in their own 
organization but also to ensure in turn that their 
suppliers adhere to the international standards 
summarized in the Code of Conduct. Our values 
as well as increasing and stricter legislation 
requires companies – in particular, multinational 
enterprises – to conform with international 
standards. The  ‘OECD Due Diligence Guidance for 
Responsible Business Conduct’ as well as the  
UN Guiding Principles for business and human 
rights explain the international expectations  
and possibilities to implement necessary 
processes. In addition, our partners shall also 
actively adhere to the principles of 
nondiscrimination in the selection of their 
suppliers and in the conduct of their business 
relationships. Nondiscrimination in the area of 
business relationships means, in particular,  
that requests for quotations should be made 
accessible to as wide a circle of potential suppliers 
as possible. Equality of opportunity should not 
be restricted from the outset through the exclusion 
of suppliers (e.g. due to their background, race, 
beliefs) without reasonable grounds.
We expect you as our partner to:
• Have established your own ethical, social and ecological 
minimum requirements in your supply chain, and your 
suppliers be legally bound to comply with them.
• Have at least one officer who is responsible for issues  
of sustainability in the supply chain.
• Take suitable measures (e.g. Sustainability Self 
Assessments, on-site visits and management talks)  
to ensure that your suppliers permanently meet the 
minimum requirements and verify this on a risk basis.• Actively support your suppliers in implementing these 
standards. If a supplier commits repeated or serious 
breaches, for example with regard to child labor, you 
take active steps to exclude this supplier from further 
business transactions.
• Undertake continuous further development of your  
own minimum requirements for suppliers.
36  37Specific Information for Siemens Energy Suppliers
Siemens Energy sources goods and services 
worth approximately two thirds of its yearly 
revenue in more than 140 countries – a huge 
source of business for suppliers all over the 
world. Sourcing goods and services on this scale 
– in a variety of markets and for a large number 
of locations – poses major challenges to our 
Supply Chain Management and exerts a 
significant influence to the environment, 
societies and local economies in which  
we operate.
An integrated Supplier Management creates the 
conditions for the common optimization of this 
value chain. It ensures our global competitiveness 
and our adherence with our broad sustainability 
requirements.
Therefore, our sustainability requirements are 
embedded company-wide in unified, mandatory 
procurement processes, in particular those 
processes involved in Supplier Management. 
A key part of this is ensuring that our suppliers 
agree contractually to abide by the 
Code of Conduct.We evaluate and review the Code’s sustainability 
principles as part of our overall Supplier 
Management Process in all its three levels:
Supplier Qualification. Siemens Energy 
suppliers are subject to the company-wide 
standardized Supplier Registration and 
Qualification Process. It is a core element within 
our supplier selection process to make sure that 
our cross-functional requirements are 
continuously met by the supplier. As a prerequisite 
towards ensuring sustainability in their own 
organization and their supply chain, our suppliers 
are expected to commit to the requirements of 
the Code of Conduct and – if applicable –  
to conduct the Sustainability Self-Assessment 
(see chapter “Detection Modules”).
Supplier Evaluation. Further, more detailed 
efforts are made to ensure the sustainability 
requirements in our supply chain during the 
Supplier Evaluation Process. Therefore, our 
Supplier Evaluation focus beside typical 
performance indicators like quality, technology, 
procurement and logistics also on control  of sustainability aspects. The Sustainability Self-
Assessments, the Supplier Quality Audits, the 
External Sustainability Audits and the Incident 
Driven Inspections form a control system which 
is based on a risk-based approach (see chapter 
“Supplier Sustainability Risk Detection Modules”).
Supplier Development. Supplier Development 
activities aim at a sustainable cooperation between Siemens Energy and our suppliers  
as well as the continuous identification and 
realization of optimization opportunities.  
The established Supplier Development Process 
ensures sustainable implementation of relevant 
corrective actions which result from the 
described Detection Modules and supports 
continuous enhancements of suppliers’ 
compliance with our requirements.
Contractual Obligation
We developed a system of contractual obligations 
to ensure that all of our suppliers commit to the 
requirements of the Code of Conduct:
Supplier Qualification. To become “Ready-  
for-Business” within our Supplier Qualification 
process, all suppliers have to pass several 
requirements – one of them is the commitment 
to our Code of Conduct. The commitment must 
be given during the supplier’s registration 
process in our global procurement application 
Supplier Management tool.  
Additionally, within the Supplier Qualification 
process, suppliers have to fulfill various 
requirements depending on defined triggers, 
e.g., country of location or kind of delivered 
products and services. Only if the supplier has 
successfully completed the registration and 
qualification processes, it is assigned with the 
status “Ready for Business” (R4B) and can be 
utilized by Siemens Energy buyers.
Corporate Responsibility Contract Clause.  
All new and extended procurement contracts 
have to include the Corporate Responsibility 
contract clause which commits the supplier to 
our Code of Conduct and, additionally, defines 
Self-Assessment and audit rights.Conditions of Purchase. To complete the 
system and to cover possible small procurement 
volumes which might not be covered by explicit 
procurement contracts, all purchase orders 
include the Code of Conduct commitment in  
the Conditions of Purchase.Sustainability in  
Supplier Management
Siemens Energy operates in areas of business 
that are of major importance for today‘s society. 
These areas are all closely aligned with the guiding 
objectives of business sustainability: greater 
security, more efficient use of resources, and 
long-term environmental and social compatibility.
38  39
Supplier Sustainability  
Risk Detection Modules
Sustained compliance with the responsibilities 
and principles of the Code of Conduct is checked 
by Siemens Energy using the following methods: 
Sustainability Self Assessments, Regular Supplier 
Quality Audits, External Sustainability Audits and 
Incident Driven Inspections.
Inspections at the supplier’s premises are only 
carried out following prior notification by 
Siemens Energy, within normal operating hours 
and in accordance with the applicable laws.  
In addition, it will be ensured that the business 
activities of the supplier are not disrupted and 
that confidentiality agreements with third-
parties are not breached. Protection of  personal data is important to Siemens Energy, 
therefore all personal information is handled in 
line with the applicable legal guidelines on the 
protection of personal information, data security 
and antitrust regulations. This means that 
personnel information or price calculations,  
for example, are not included in an audit.
Sustainability Self Assessment
The Sustainability Self-Assessment is an integral 
part of the Siemens Energy Supplier Qualification 
Process. Siemens Energy expects, on the basis of  
a questionnaire, that the supplier provides its 
own assessment of the requirements of the  Code of Conduct. We found that sustainability 
topics are observed or understood in different 
ways in different regions/countries. Therefore,  
we have categorized our suppliers according to 
their physical location: the categorization for 
higher risk status is mainly based on OECD 
countries membership combined with the result 
in the Transparency International Corruption 
Perception Index.  Suppliers based on defined 
criteria (e.g. based in a higher-risk-country, 
Procurement Volume, etc.) need to perform a 
Sustainability Self-Assessment before the 
suppliers receive the “Ready-for- Business (R4B)” 
status. In case the supplier’s answer is insufficient 
or deviates from the Siemens Energy requirement, 
the supplier has to undertake measures to 
improve and meet the Siemens Energy 
requirements or will be rejected. The Sustainability 
Self-Assessment must be renewed every three 
years based on the above described criteria.
Regular Supplier Quality Audits
During regular process and system quality  
audits at the supplier’s premises the sustained 
implementation of the requirements of the  
Code of Conduct is also checked.  
For this purpose, the supplier quality audits 
have, since 2007, been supplemented by special 
sustainability questions on all topic areas of  
the Code of Conduct. In the case of deviations, 
for example, if potential risks or dangers for 
employees exist and no remedial measures are 
put in place, the supplier and Siemens Energy 
collectively agree on the respective measures for 
improvement. The agreed measures are binding.
External Sustainability Audits 
and Incident Driven Inspections
Siemens Energy has appointed internationally 
recognized auditing companies which conduct 
on-site audits based on the universally valid 
principles of the Code of Conduct. The outcome 
is an in- depth assessment and report that enables 
Siemens Energy and its suppliers to identify and 
manage potential sustainability risks.  External Sustainability Audits also play  
an important role in the scheme of supplier 
development by improving the supplier’s 
sustainability performance based on a so-  
called corrective action plan, which covers  
the implementation of requirements but also 
provides recommendations for the further 
development of sustainability practices.
Incident Driven Inspections are carried out  
when a strong suspicion of a nonconformance 
with the Code of Conduct exists – for example, 
on the basis of well-known media reports or 
results from regular quality audits. Incident 
Driven Inspections are carried out with prior 
notification. The scope of an Incident Driven 
Inspection focuses on a section of the Code of 
Conduct to ensure a detailed assessment of the 
suspected nonconformance. Incident Driven 
Inspections are carried out by a third-party 
auditor authorized by Siemens Energy.
Suppliers With 
High Purchasing Volume
Many of our “high purchasing volume suppliers” 
have strong sustainability processes and 
controlling mechanisms due to their own size 
and economical importance and seem less 
critical. But they are sensitive partners which 
have high impact in case of sustainability failures 
due to their large number of (possibly affected) 
employees or to the surrounding community  
due to their economic power.
We often use the External Sustainability Audit 
for in-depth controlling of our high-volume 
suppliers. A main aspect conducting audits at 
high volume suppliers is that they mostly have  
a larger supplier base.
An External Sustainability Audit enables  
us to ensure that our strong sustainability 
requirements will be forwarded to the  
supplier’s supply base (our 2nd tier suppliers).Specific Information for Siemens Energy Suppliers
40  41Specific Information for Siemens Energy Suppliers
In the case of deviations from the Code of 
Conduct, Siemens Energy and the supplier will 
agree to implement sustainable measures for 
improvement within a suitable time frame. 
Deviations from this Code of Conduct by Third 
Party Intermediaries who are not Suppliers are 
regulated by the respective contractual clauses.
The time frame for rectification can, depending 
on the type and extent of the deviation, cover an 
agreed period of weeks or months during which 
time the required remedial measures are defined 
and put in place by the supplier immediately 
following discovery of the deviation.All measures put in place after inspections are 
incorporated into the company-wide standard 
Supplier Management method at Siemens 
Energy and are systematically pursued. 
Implementation of the measures has, therefore, 
an influence on the supplier’s annual 
performance rating and on the assessment of 
the supplier’s future potential, as well as on the 
approval of the supplier within the regular 
supplier qualification process.
How do you, as a supplier, actively ensure us 
that the requirements of the Code of Conduct 
are implemented and sustained?Supplier Sustainability 
Risk Mitigation – 
Consequences  
of Deviations
We expect you as our supplier to:
• Answer enquiries regarding compliance with the  
Code of Conduct within the requested time.
• Actively support the need for clarification and demonstrate 
active co-operation and willingness to improve, should a 
potential risk arise from the information in the Sustainability 
Self-Assessment, for example failure to check the age of 
young employees or non-implementation of corrective 
measures in the case of a well-known environmental incident.
• Permit the quality auditors access to the required documents 
and areas so that they can gain a full awareness of your 
compliance with the Code of Conduct.
• Make competent employees available for confidential 
interviews at Regular Supplier Quality Audits/External 
Sustainability Audits/Incident Driven Inspections.
What are the consequences of a breach  
of the Code of Conduct?:
• Should minor breaches be discovered or reported, for 
example no documented record of the person in your 
company responsible for legal compliance, a suitable and binding period for improvement will usually be put 
in place. In the context of the company-wide mandatory 
Supplier Management method, measures to correct the 
problem will be implemented and incorporated into  
the Supplier Development program.
• In the case of a significant breach, for example significant 
risks/dangers for employees are present which are not 
analyzed and eliminated, even when severe accidents 
take place, and if no measures are taken against the 
problem, or if measures are not sufficiently implemented 
within the agreed improvement period, the business 
relationship will be terminated.
Since fiscal 2015, we have implemented the 
tightened process of the “Central Warning 
Message”, which ensures a faster and more 
effective reaction to major breaches of the  
Code of Conduct requirements:  
All local blocking is decided centrally. It allows  
us to block suppliers for all Siemens Energy 
organizations worldwide at short notice.
42  43It is especially important to us that we develop 
our suppliers’ long-term skills, so we can rise to 
the future challenge of sustainable development 
together. It is not sufficient to solely implement 
the principles of sustainability within Siemens 
Energy, but we need to make sure that our 
supply chains follow the same rules  
Therefore, the principles of sustainability must 
be known, accepted, obeyed and confirmed by 
all our suppliers. For third party intermediaries, 
Siemens Energy provides specific trainings.Our buyers regularly speak with our suppliers 
about the implementation status of the 
supplier’s efforts in this regard.
However, such a sublime requirement cannot be 
explained in personal talks alone. We, therefore, 
decided to also offer a training method that 
distributes the information about and the spirit 
of sustainability to the many participants of our 
supply chains in an uniform manner. The Web 
Based Training (WBT), as a guideline for supplier, 
illustrates our sustainability requirements.  
In addition, we offer an internet-based 
information which is available free of charge  
to all suppliers.
Together with other international manufacturing 
companies, we have been supporting an 
industry-wide initiative of efficient substance-
declaration via a web database called BOMcheck 
and also developed an internet-based information 
for our suppliers.Specific Information for Siemens Energy Suppliers
Supplier Training and 
Capacity Building
You can find further information under:
Sustainability in the Supply Chain website:
Sustainability in the Supply Chain | Supply Chain Management | Siemens Energy Global
Compliance website:
Compliance | About Us | Siemens Energy Global
Sustainability in the Supply Chain Web Based Training (WBT):
Sustainability in the Supply Chain | Supply Chain Management | Siemens Energy Global
44  45Siemens Energy’s global activities entail 
collaboration with many different partners all 
over the world. Mutual trust is essential to these 
relationships. However, as summarized in the 
OECD-Report on the “Liability of Legal Persons 
for Foreign Bribery”, Siemens Energy may be 
held accountable for the actions of its third  
party intermediaries from a legal and also a 
reputational point of view.  Therefore, Siemens 
Energy has implemented a special “Compliance 
Due Diligence Process” for third party 
intermediaries.
Legal Requirements. The US Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA) specifically refers to 
payments made to “any person, while knowing 
that all or a portion of such money or thing of 
value will be offered, given, or promised, directly 
or indirectly” to a foreign official.  
To avoid the related “head-in-the-sand” problem, 
the FCPA already holds companies liable for a 
“conscious disregard,” “willful blindness” or 
“deliberate ignorance” of a bribery scheme 
committed by third party agents. Also, the UK 
Bribery Act holds a company responsible for 
offences of a so called “associated person”, which 
is defined as someone who performs services for 
or on behalf of a company. This can be an agent 
but also anyone else connected to a company 
who might be capable of committing bribery  
on its behalf. This broad scope means that also 
cooperation partners, contractors and resellers 
could be “associated” persons.
Transparency through Due Diligence.  
To ensure mutual trust, Siemens Energy 
performs a compliance due diligence prior  
to the cooperation with such a third party 
intermediary. Our process is structured and straightforward and ensures that the relevant 
business relationship is responsibly evaluated 
and monitored throughout its existence.  
Based on a risk assessment of the proposed 
business relationship, the initial due diligence 
questionnaires include internal information 
obtained from the third party intermediary as 
well as publicly available external information 
from independent sources. The required 
information varies depending on the type and 
content of the planned business relationship.
Contractual Safeguards. The contract between 
Siemens Energy and the third party intermediary 
will include specific compliance clauses. Your 
adherence to these contractual obligations will 
be monitored – which may include preventive  
or incident driven audits.1 The nonfulfillment of 
these requirements can have consequences up 
to a termination of the contractual relationship.
1 see p. 47, Information for Third Party Intermediaries
Trustworthy Third-
Party Relationships
Third Party Intermediaries are 
required to maintain books, 
records and accounts
• An accounting system, appropriate to the nature and  
size of the business, should be used i.e. an IT based 
system or manual book keeping.
• The books, records, and accounts should include a 
balance sheet, profit and loss statement, trial balance, 
general ledger and sub-ledgers as appropriate.
• The business partner owners should segregate private 
and business-related incomes and expenses (i.e. private 
income and expenses should not be recorded in the 
books, records and accounts).
Reasonable Detail
The books and records should record:
• The exact amount of all income and expense 
transactions (e.g. no round-up or offsetting in 
accounting entries).
• Recipient of all payments.
• Details of the source of all income.
Accurately
• No accounting entries, records or supporting evidence 
should be falsified.
• The books, records, and accounts should agree to the 
related tax returns (Sales tax/Value added tax and 
Income tax).Completely
The books and records should record:
• All financial income and expenses.
• All bank accounts (local and foreign/offshore), petty cash 
balances and cash boxes.
All bank account balances should 
be reconciled to the related bank 
statements.Specific Information for Third Party Intermediaries
Siemens Energy’s 
Books and Records 
Requirements
46  47
Third Party Intermediaries are 
committed to maintain recipient 
and nature of every payment or 
expenditure:
Supporting evidences
• Retain detailed support for payments, expenditures, 
expense reimbursements, loans to shareholders / 
affiliated companies / individuals, commissions, fees,  
i.e. detailed description of services provided, date,  
value, customer.
• Invoices with one line item descriptions of services 
provided may not be adequate to properly explain the 
nature of services and the business rationale.No / limited cash
• For full transparency, Third party Intermediaries should 
avoid cash transactions wherever possible.
• Business Partners (BPs) should not give cash or cash 
equivalents as gifts.
Lawful Marketing
Maintain detailed support for:
• Gifts, sponsorships and entertainment transactions 
(detailed description of expenditure, date, value, 
recipient and business rationale).
• Payments to consultants e.g. for market research 
(contract, detailed description of expenditure, date, 
value, recipient and business rationale).
Comply with all local and 
international legal requirements 
e.g. Sunshine Act regarding giving 
gifts to government officials.What is Siemens Energy’s approach?  
• In order to ensure transparency and compliance with 
other applicable laws and regulations, an audit will 
review company and ownership structure.
• In order to ensure transparency and compliance with 
anti-corruption regulations, an audit will review detailed 
supporting documentation for selected transactions.  
 
 
• In order to ensure transparency with the use of funds 
received from Siemens Energy, and audit will review 
detailed expense and payment activities.
• In order to ensure that Third Party Intermediaries are 
complying with the books and records requirements,  
an audit will review detailed financial information.Requested documents including but not 
limited to:
• Financial Statements e.g. Income Statement, Balance 
Sheet, Tax Returns
• Overview of Business Partners’ (BPs’) employee setup
• Sub ledger details for select company accounts  
(e.g. Travel expenses, Miscellaneous Expenses, etc.)
• Cash and cash equivalent activity (e.g. petty cash, wired 
transfer activity, check register, etc.)
• All bank accounts and their bank statements including 
bank reconciliations for all bank accounts
• Gifts & Hospitality, Sponsorships and Donation
• Marketing and Promotion expenses
• Consulting professional fees
• Shareholding/ownership information
• Company setup e.g. business with affiliates
• Compliance related guidelinesFor the purposes of a preventive or incident 
driven audit, which may be included in the 
specific compliance clauses of an agreement 
with a third party intermediary, Siemens Energy 
requires an appropriate level of documentation 
which substantiates, in a transparent and clear 
manner, the activities of the third party.  The documentation needs to support the 
appropriate use of the economic means received 
from Siemens Energy and their compliance with 
the contract and with the applicable laws and 
regulations, especially with the anti-corruption 
related regulatory environment.Purpose and Approach 
of On-site AuditsAudit and Reporting of Allegations
48  49Siemens Energy‘s 
Reporting Channels
Reporting of Possible Misconduct.  
To justify the trust placed in Siemens Energy by 
customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees 
and other stakeholders of the company, we 
place the highest priority on the integrity  
and transparency of our business processes.
Therefore, it is essential that Siemens Energy 
obtains knowledge of any compliance violations, 
in particular violations of the Siemens Energy 
Business Conduct Guidelines. Reliable reporting 
channels for internal and external stakeholders 
are indispensable for effective compliance, 
because they help ensure that possible 
misconduct is reported, thoroughly investigated 
and brought to light. Like other external 
stakeholders and Siemens Energy employees, 
Siemens Energy partners may choose between 
two protected channels to report possible 
misconduct to our company.Compliance Hotline “Speak Up”.  
The compliance hotline “Speak Up” is a secure 
way of reporting potential compliance violations. 
Reports can be submitted at any time of the day 
or night, anywhere in the world, in a safe, 
confidential and if desired, anonymous manner, 
either online or by telephone, in multiple 
languages. The call center and website are 
operated by an external provider specializing in 
the secure and confidential handling of sensitive 
content. Incoming reports are not traced and 
reporting parties are not automatically 
registered. The content of incoming reports  
is forwarded by the service provider to the 
Siemens Energy Compliance Organization for 
clarification. The decision on further actions to 
be taken is made there. All reports are treated 
confidentially.Ombudsperson. In addition to the compliance 
hotline “Speak Up”, possible compliance 
violations can also be reported to the Siemens 
Energy Ombudsperson. The attorney Dr. Sibylle 
von Coelln of the Dusseldorf law firm of 
HEUKING · VON COELLN Rechtsanwälte has been 
appointed to serve as an external ombudsperson 
for the company, in order to give employees  
a protected reporting channel for possible 
compliance violations. All our Stakeholders 
can contact this impartial individual on a 
confidential and anonymous basis if they have 
observed any improper business practices in 
the company.
Processing of reported misconduct:  
Zero Tolerance for retaliation.  
Siemens Energy will examine all reports and 
take appropriate measures. Siemens Energy 
does not tolerate any retaliation against 
complainants or whistleblowers. If ongoing or 
threatened retaliation is reported to the 
compliance organization, it will assess the 
allegation accordingly and - to the extent that 
this is factually, procedurally and legally 
possible - deal with or sanction it. All allegations 
of possible violations of the Business Conduct 
Guidelines or the Code of Conduct are 
responded to in accordance with formal 
company-wide processes.  These processes take into account the 
presumption of innocence and the participation 
rights of employee representatives where required 
by local policy. Identified violations of rules will be 
promptly remedied and appropriately sanctioned; 
appropriate remedial action will be taken 
accordingly. Siemens Energy will apply the same 
principles to allegations of wrongdoing brought 
by third-parties.
Dr. Sibylle von Coelln
Rechtsanwältin  
HEUKING ∙ VON COELLN Rechtsanwälte  
Prinz-Georg-Straße 104  
40479 Düsseldorf  
Germany  
Tel: +49 211 44 03 57 76  
siemensenergy-ombudsperson@hvc-strafrecht.de
Company’s responsibility
Establishing Sustainability in the Supply Chain (e.g. Human Rights, 
Health & Safety standards, Environmental Protection, fighting against 
Corruption) shall not be a secret internal company policy – it is not 
implemented to gain an economical advantage against competitors. It 
must be shared publicly as an inspiration to jointly work for a better life 
for all who take part in our interconnected world.
It is a company’s responsibility – or less abstract: every buyer’s responsi-
bility – to ensure that all measures offered are used to improve the lives 
of our suppliers‘ employees and the conditions in the societies in which 
they are based.
“Speak Up” can be reached via a secure external Internet server:
https://www.bkms-system.net/bkwebanon/report/
clientInfo?cin=LP5taA&c=-1&language=engHow to report  
allegations of Siemens 
Energy’s wrongdoingAudit and Reporting of Allegations
Published by
Siemens Energy AG  
Procurement  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich, Germany
Version 2.0  August 2023
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/about/supply-chain-
management/sustainability-in-the-supply-chain.html
siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/sustainability.html
Copyrights: All rights, also that of translation, reprint and copy, or parts 
thereof, are reserved. This document will not be recalled in the event of 
any alterations.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
© Siemens Energy 2023