Battery Energy 
Storage Systems in 
Power Plants
A promising combination
Content
Adapt your plant to a changing energy system
01Introduction
Page 04
Benefits of BESS in power plants
Page 06
Two major BESS technologies: Li-ion and 
Redox Flow
Page 10
Comparison of the two technologies
Page 11
Commercial consideration
Page 12
06The concept of brownfield transformation
Page 1302
03
04
05Battery Energy Storage Systems 
in power plants ‒ an overview on 
applications
Value
Operational flexibilityPerformance improvement
• aFRR (automatic Frequency Restoration 
      Reserve)
• mFRR (manual Frequency Restoration 
      Reserve)
• Intraday and day ahead arbitrage
• Higher startup- and load gradients
• Lower minimum environmental load
• Black start capability
Carbon footprint • Combination with battery storage allows 
Combined Cycle Power Plants (CCPP)     
operation in load ranges with higher        
efficiency
Power output Additional battery capacity allows for:
• Participation in capacity markets and bal-
ancing mechanism
• Reserve margin reduction
• Peak power applications
3
Battery Energy Storage Systems in power plants - Unrestricted Information 2
01 
The importance of grid scale battery 
storage is growing – the need for grid
stability services increases with the 
share of renewable power.
Over the last years, prices for renewable energy have experienced a significant 
decrease, and its contribution to power production is steadily increasing.  
As the production of renewable energy depends on the availability of sun  
and wind, power systems need to adapt and fill the gap between supply of 
renewable energy and power demand. Consequently, these systems may  
undergo drastic changes.
Traditional power plants have the chance to play an important role if they can 
supply flexible “power on demand” as well as grid stability services. But other  
technologies are also evolving. Grid scale Battery Energy Storage System 
(BESS) may be one of the more important ones. 
According to the International Energy Agency, annual additions increased 
nearly ten times between 2016 and 2021. But this may only be the beginning. 
According to IHS Markit the installed grid scale BESS will grow from approxi -
mately 60GW in 2024 to up to approximately 400GW in 2034.
Figure 1: Expected development of worldwide BESS capacity acc. to IHS green rules scenario.
Battery Energy Storage Systems in power plants - Unrestricted Information
4
02  Benefits of BESS in power plants
Battery Energy Storage Systems can be located 
at various points within the energy system, such 
as the transmission or distribution network, near 
the load, in the vicinity of wind or solar farms, or 
within thermal power plants.At Siemens Energy, we believe that the latter 
location has not yet received the attention it de- 
serves. Adding BESS to a power plant can provide 
multiple advantages, both in terms of revenue 
generation and cost reduction.
The provision of ancillary services such as the  
Frequency Containment Reserve (FCR), the auto -
matic Frequency Restoration Reserve (aFRR) or 
the manual Frequency Restoration Reserve (mRR) 
are amongst the main drivers for investment in 
BESS. 
Power plants can also provide these services  
and are sometimes in competition with BESS. 
However, a solution that combines both tech-  
nologies in a smart way may be able to provide 
the best relationship between offered service 
parameters like reaction time, power range,  
and service duration and cost. 
Plant flexibility may be further improved by up -
grading the generator to a Rotating Grid Stabilizer 
(RGS). With this feature it is possible to provide 
Synchronous Inertial Response (SIR), short circuit 
power and reactive power, even at times when 
the turbines are not operating.
Such configuration, extended by an integrated 
BESS may further improve the chances to win 
auctions for ancillary services.
In certain markets power plants are required to 
operate at a certain percentage below maximum 
power output and to maintain a capacity reserve to the grid. If an integrated BESS can provide  
this reserve, the power plant can operate at 
maximum power output and sell more power  
to the market at higher efficiency (max power 
= design point).
Flexibility is key in regions with high 
shares of intermittent renewable energy.  
BESS allows for steeper load gradients, improv-
ing the position in the merit order for ancillary 
services. If demand falls below the Minimum                
Environmental Load (MEL) of the power plant 
it can also absorb and store the excess power. 
Further, it can be used to shorten the time to 
grid synchronization for all types of conven-               
tional power plants, from traditional steam  
plants to gas turbine peaking units.Revenue
Overview of the main advantages
Figure 3: Rotating Grid Stabilizer with FlywheelRevenue CAPEX OPEX
From ancillary services and bet-
ter position in merit orderReduced fuel costs resulting 
from improved average  
efficiency Lower investment costs due to 
joint use of equipment already 
installed in power plant and the 
existing grid connection
Figure 2: Improvement of flexibility of a CCPP with BESS
7
Battery Energy Storage Systems in power plants - Unrestricted Information 6
A significant portion of the investment costs of  
a battery storage system is required for grid con -
nection, transformers, high voltage switch gears 
and their controls. These components are already 
available in power plants and may be shared. 
Thus, the investment cost of BESS in a power 
plant may be significantly lower than at other 
locations. BESS also have the potential to replace diesel engines required for black start capabili -
ties. Further, additional permitting at an existing 
power plant location may not be necessary.
If permits are necessary, they may be easier to 
obtain as local stakeholders are already used to 
power generation facilities.CAPEX
Inverter & 
ControlsTransformer
Instrumentation & Controls
Automation Server (AS) system
Centralized I/O cabinets (ET-200) located in PCC
PROFINET field bus network to BESS group controller
Main server rack, control softwarePower control center
incl. MV & LV switchgear,
LV transformer & distributionBusduct 
connection 
or 
High voltage 
grid connection
BESS Core BESS Balance of Plant (BoP)Possible synergies with power plant 
Battery  including 
• Battery
• Battery management 
system
Most power plants achieve their highest effi -
ciency when operating close to maximum power 
output.
By charging the integrated BESS in times of 
lower demand, power plants can be operated 
longer in this power range. As a consequence, 
their average specific fuel consumption may be 
lower. Some power plants may even be required to provide ancillary services during times of low 
power demand and at power prices lower than 
the variable cost of the plant.
The plant may then operate at low load to mini -
mize its losses. In such case an integrated BESS 
may allow to shut down the power plant and to 
provide ancillary services with the BESS (cold 
frequency response). OPEX
There is always a solution 
available ‒ we help you 
to find the right one.
Power output [MW]
Time [h]BESS
Power plantLoad level required 
for ancillary services
Figure 4: Frequency restoration reserve with BESS and power plant
9 8
03  Two major BESS technologies: 
Li-ion and Redox Flow
Li-ion batteries
Brief overview on the principles
Figure 5: Reduction and oxidation flow batteriesMain advantages of Li-ion batteries are a high 
energy density, high roundtrip efficiency and 
short reaction times. 
The main characteristics of RFBs include their 
long lifespan, minimal degradation, the ability to 
handle up to 150% overpowering (albeit with re -
duced roundtrip efficiency), and the flexibility to 
extend storage duration simply by increasing the 
amount of electrolyte and adjusting tank sizes. 
The sytsem‘s power is determined by the size and configuration of stacks, while the total energy 
capacity is dictated by the volume of electrolyte 
stored in the tanks.
Compared to Li-ion technology, RFBs have a 
significantly lower energy density. Its effect on 
the actual plant size can be limited because the 
safety related distance between the single 
battery blocks is not necessary and plant layouts 
with multiple floors or larger tasks may also be 
possible.04  Comparison of the technologies
Different solutions with different strengths
Li-ion batteries are extensively used in  
consumer electronics and electric vehicles,  
making them the most popular technology 
for Battery Energy Storage Systems.
 
Li-ion batteries consist of a cathode made 
from a lithium transition metal oxide, an 
anode typically composed of graphite, and a 
lithium salt-based electrolyte often in a poly -
mer matrix. The energy in Li-ion batteries is 
stored within the battery cell itself.
Performance characteristics such as energy 
density and depth of discharge can be influ -
enced by the choice of cathode material.
The most common cathode material for 
stationary BESS applications is Lithium Iron 
Phosphate (LiFePO 4). This type of battery is 
often referred to as an „Energy Cell“.
Depending on the required performance 
parameters, it may also be appropriate to use 
a Lithium Nickel Manganese Cobalt (LiNMC) 
oxide cathode, which is also referred to as a 
“Power Cell”. Reduction and oxidation 
(Redox) flow batteries
Redox Flow Batteries (RFB) are composed of 
two differently charged liquid electrolyte solu -
tions and an electrochemical cell (also called 
stacks), consisting of two compartments for 
the respective electrolytes and the electrodes. 
These compartments are separated by 
a membrane. 
During charging, the energy is stored in the 
electrolytes, which are then pumped into 
tanks outside of the electrochemical cell. 
For discharging, the electrolytes are pumped 
back into the electrochemical cell, where they 
transfer the energy back to the electrodes.  
Figure 6: Comparison of Li-ion and Redox Flow Battery, orientation values only, actual values may differ substantially depending on use case
Technology selection for battery storage depends on the use 
case as requirements differ significantly
11
Battery Energy Storage Systems in power plants - Unrestricted Information 10
06  The concept of brownfield 
transformation
Our brownfield transformation approach is a holistic methodology 
to help with the stepwise decarbonization of existing power plants 
while maintaining most of the existing infrastructure. One potential 
step may be the addition of a BESS.
A possible long term perspective may be to turn these power plants 
into decarbonized power hubs, combining BESS with Rotating Grid 
Stabilizers and hydrogen fired gas turbines.We meet you at your starting point05 Commercial consideration
The viability of the different technologies  
for commercial use is impacted by pro -
ject-specific factors such as compensation 
structure, storage capacity and duration, the 
number of cycles and more. Based on these 
factors either RFB or Li-ion batteries may of -
fer a lower Levelized Cost of Storage (LCoS). 
Generally, RFBs tend to become more ap -
pealing as the required storage duration 
increases, the battery size expands, and the 
number of cycles grows. As the amount of 
excess power from renewable energy sources 
increases, Redox Flow Batteries become more 
viable due to their ability to discharge over 
long periods of time.The choice depends on the use case
Figure 7: Storage solutions BESS-Standalone
13
Battery Energy Storage Systems in power plants - Unrestricted Information 12
Our offering
Why Siemens Energy? 
Siemens Energy offers products, solutions, and services across the 
entire energy value chain. We support our customers on their way 
to a more sustainable future – no matter how far along the journey 
they are. 
Our experienced service team is ready to assist you in deciding 
which solution is the right one for you. With our experts in engi-
neering, manufacturing and/or field service in close collaboration, 
we can offer optimum service solutions for your power plant to 
match your specific demands. 
Please do not hesitate to contact your local Siemens Energy  
representative in order to help you find the right customized and 
project specific BESS solution.
Visit our Customer Energy Portal cep.siemens-energy.com  or our 
webpage siemens-energy.com .
For detailed information on BESS please visit our webpage
siemens-energy.com/bess .
Expertise you can rely onWe start where you are
Project initiation & design
Our experienced grid consulting  team evaluates the  
regulatory landscape and market dynamics, conducting 
grid studies and analytics based on specific project  
requirements.
Concept development:  Identifying & specifying power 
plant modifications for optimal integration of BESS into 
your asset‘s operation, ensuring smooth system-grid  
functioning.
Assessment of technology, size and connection.
Stability studies and devise voltage control concepts  
to ensure system reliability.
Joint optimization of business case  and business model.
Project execution
Project specific engagement extending to a full turnkey of 
a Li-ion storage system,  or close cooperation with one 
of the leading technologists in the field of RFBs.
With OEM knowledge for new applications and service, 
as well as SCADA expertise, we can fully integrate and 
comission a BESS into your existing conventional power 
plant. This will optimize and maximize the value from 
both assets. 
Project operation
Continuous monitoring  and comprehensive diagnostics 
to maintain battery health.
Customized service concepts  to suit your needs,  
extending up to a full Operation and Maintenance (O&M) 
contract.
15
Battery Energy Storage Systems in power plants - Unrestricted Information 14
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 München, Germany
For the US published by
 
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com
Document No. CB3-24-0046-BP-EN-01
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains 
general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect 
those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development 
of the products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be 
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other 
companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners .