Unrestricted © 2021 Siemens Energy Page 1
1 Economic success through reducing
losses and protecting existing equip-
ment with PST technology
The challenge
Connecting grids across countries always poses challenges for
the utilities on both sides. The power flow needs to be control-
led so that the energy produced in one country can be consu-
med there. However, in the event of overproduction, the utility
needs to provide the option for sending the excess power to the
neighboring country. To transmit the power produced in Califor-
nia (U.S.A.) to its own customers instead of the neighbors in
Mexico, the local utility needed a viable solution – which is ei-
ther a B2B DC backbone or phase-shifting transformers (PST).
The solution
The local utility opted for two PSTs as the go-to solution for op-
timizing the grid. They control the power flow in the transmis-
sion network on a 230kV transmission in an optimal way thatallows them to push more power onto their 500kV transmission
lines instead of having uncontrolled power transmission. This is
especially crucial for the customer when one of the 500 kV
transmission lines is out of service. Due to local grid require-
ments, the phase shifters needed to provide an extremely large
and asymmetrical phase angle. However, the physical size still
needed to be as compact as possible for ease of transportation.
The customer also specified tank-mounted ONAF cooling and no
sound-damping measures.
2 Technical features
1. Phase angle
Due to local grid requirements in both countries, the phase shif-
ters needed to provide an extremely large asymmetrical phase
angle from -80.1° to 31.3°. This phase angle range implied that
the units would be extremely large. However, for ease of trans-
portation and reduced footprint, the customer asked for the
most compact dimensions possible.
Ultimately, the series and exciter transformer shipping dimen-
sions were 468.5 x 149.6 x 181.1 inches (11,9 x 3,8 x 4,6 m) and
the shipped weight was 582,000 lbs. (264 tons) and 623,900 lbs.
(283 tons) respectively.Providing grid stability
Use case: Phase-shifting
Transformers for California,
U.S.A.
siemens-energy.com/transformers

Unrestricted © 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2
2. Two-tank design
Due to the large phase-angle requirement, it was not possible
to design the phase shifter as a singletank unit. Therefore, the
PSTs were designed as a classical two-core/two-tank unit.
3. Regulation
The regulation of the PSTs in the existing grid was a very impor-
tant issue for this project. Therefore, three off-single-phase on-
load tap changers and one off-ARS-type switch were incorpo-
rated in the PSTs. A special winding concept was developed that
enabled the use of a standard R-type tap changer . This resulted
in the PSTs being equipped with seven offthroat connections
instead of the usual four offthroat connections:
4. Cooling
The PSTs are equipped with ONAF (oil natural-air forced) tank-
mounted radiator cooling with fans but with no pumps. The
cooling fans were selected to meet the required low noise level.
5. Seismic withstand
Because California is in a region that has a high incidence of
earthquakes, it was important to design and manufacture the
PSTs to be qualified according to the requirements of IEEE
693-2005 and meet the requirements of the high qualification
level. In order to meet this requirement, a third party was em-
ployed to:
1) develop a finiteelement mathematical model that
could be used to perform the seismic analysis of the PSTs and
 2) prepare a seismic analysis qualification report.Do you experience grid instability or bottlenecks in your trans-
mission system, or do you want to avoid public grid fees on your
lines?
Think about a PST and contact us!
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transmission
Freyeslebenstr. 1
91058 Erlangen
Germany
Article No.  PTNP-T10008-00-7600
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com/transformers
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may
not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The re-
quested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could
violate the rights of the owners.
Other applications for PSTs
PSTs are crucial components in the ongoing effort to im-
prove grid reliability and stability. They offer many ad-
vantages in various applications:
•Increased transmission capacity and optimized utilization of
transmission equipment by balancing line-loading of parallel
lines/network segments
•Improved grid stability by preventing unwanted loading and
loop flows
•Direct power sourcing of cheap electricity from nearby
power plants by enforcing power flow through the utility’s
separate line and avoiding public grid fees
•Improved commercial crossnetworking trading
•Fast (re-)connection of networks with large differ-
ences in phase angle by temporarily reducing the
phase shift
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc
Transmission
4601 Six Forks Road
Raleigh, NC 27609
USA