Unrestricted  © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  1  
1 Siemens Energy introduces the next 
level  of eco -friendly transformer 
technology  
In this way, Siemens Energy is underpinning its status as the most 
innovative supplier of power transformers.  Phase shifters are spe-
cial transformers Phase shifters are special transformers that ena-
ble cost -effective load flow management and grid asset optimiza-
tion in complex grids.  
 
With generation dispatch and transmission grid load becoming in-
creasingly volatile, the demand for phase  shifters continues  to 
grow, as circuit overloads need to be reduced without compromis-
ing grid stability and flexibility. The need  for safe and reliable grid 
operation is especially high in densely populated metropolitan ar-
eas for the overall stability of the grid. However, transformers that 
are to be installed in such areas need to be extremely quiet  and 
have to meet particularly hi gh requirements in terms of reliability 
and eco -friendliness to protect the environment in the unlikely case 
of a failure.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
No surprise, then, that Siemens  Energy , the  supplier with most refer-
ences worldwide  in terms of alternative insulation  liquids for power 
transformers, has  now received the order for the world’s  first phase 
shifter that is filled with  ester oil instead of mineral oil.  
The organic -based, nontoxic insulating  liquid is biodegradable with an 
extremely  high flash point.  This en ables the cost -efficient installation  
of the phase shifter in the direct  vicinity of residential and commercial  
buildings.  
 
The 138/138 -kV phase shifter now  being manufactured by Siemens 
Energy will be installed in a metropolitan area on the East Coast of 
the US to help the local utility control the power flow and rapidly 
adjust to changes in the power demand in the system. The 60 Hz  
300-MVA unit will feature  a ±25 -degrees phase angle and will have 
two active parts in one tank.  
 
  
Next level of  
ecofriendliness  
World’s first phase -shifting  
transformer with ester   
insulation liquid  
siemens -energy.com /transformers  
Frei verwendbar   © 2020 Siemens Energy  Page  2 
The entire design ensures a high overload rating for safe and re-
liable operation, and a maximum sound pressure level of only 
50.3 dBA at 300 MVA including the noise of the windings and 
pumps, which is the noise level of a standard dishwasher, ena-
bles operation in residential neighborhoods.  
 
The phase -shifting transformer will  be delivered to the US in the 
fall and  can be installed in record time thanks  to its innovative 
plug -in bushings – a result of Siemens  Energy’s  modular trans-
former  concept called Pretact®.  
 
This unique  concept comprises numerous features  that help cus-
tomers save consider able time and money during the installation  
and operation of Siemens  Energy  transformers,  among them mo-
tor-operated  valves to shut off the radiator banks in  case of an 
emergency, flexi -components  in the mechanical installation,  and 
plug -in wiring connectio ns. These  advantages will also tremen-
dously  increase health and safety standards.  
 
The new, eco -friendly phase shifter  that boasts all advantages of 
the Pretact® concept emphasizes Siemens  Energy’s expertise and 
experience in designing  and building outstandingly efficient  and 
reliable transformers.  
  
 
Standard phase -shifting transformer  
 
 
“One of our  core aims is to provide versatile solutions  that help 
our customers minimize  their efforts in operating sustainable  and 
eco-friendly solutions,” says  Christian  Ettl, project manager at Sie-
mens  Energy . 
 
 
 
 
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Transmission  
Freyeslebenstr. 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany  
 
Article No.  PTNP -T10009 -00-7600  
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens -energy.com /transformers  
© Siemens Energy, 2021  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products.  The request ed performance fea-
tures are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be tradema rks or product names of Siemens 
Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for the ir own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.    
   For the U.S. published by  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Transmission  
4601 Six Forks Road  
Raleigh, NC 27609  
USA  