 © 202 3 Siemens Energy  Page  1 
Introduction  
Cyber threats are increasing with serious consequences for 
companies and communities worldwide. Critical infrastruc-
ture like power transmission systems become increasingly 
the focus.  
Information technology (IT) systems are the foundation of 
all of today’s critical processes in most companies. This 
leads to significantly increased risks of being attacked by 
hackers or viruses. There can be serious consequences if 
these attacks result in  data loss, the theft of confidential 
data, or even a complete system failure.  
At the time of installation, the system has by design a high 
level of security. Yet cyber security is not a onetime task.  
It is an ongoing endeavor during the complete systems 
lifetime  to constantly fight new cyber threats and 
continuously keep the system security on a high level.  
Features  
Siemens Energy has developed a comprehensive cyber 
security service portfolio for HVDC and FACTS to support 
customers.  
1. Identify cyber vulnerabilities  
• Software Inventory Assessment: The basis for any effective 
cyber security activities is to know the installed software  
• Following a threat and risk analysis the penetration test 
(‘friendly hacking’) helps to reveal security weaknesses 
from a simulated hacker perspective  2. Protect your systems  
• The “technical requirement check” comprises many tech-
nical security aspects including system hardening, de-
fense -in-depth, malicious code prevention (anti -virus 
software), secure event monitoring & central logging, 
system access control & account management , remote 
access, backup & recovery, and further topics  
• Security Patch Management: Identifying, tracking, test-
ing, and implementing a security patch management 
program  
• System upgrade: When software reaches end of lifetime  
3. Respond to cyber incidents  
• Cybercrime hotline with support from cyber experts 
when cyber incidents happen  
4. Consulting and training  
• Consulting for implementation of international cyber se-
curity standards  
• Cyber security awareness trainings  
Benefits  
The cyber security services for HVDC & FACTS support 
system operators in their effort of professionally managing 
security vulnerabilities and keeping their systems 
continuously on a high security level.   
  
siemens -energy.com /cyber -securit y-service  Cyber Security for   
HVDC & FACTS  
Cyber Security Services  

 © 202 3 Siemens Energy  Page  2 Security Patch Management  
A security patch is a piece of software designed to resolve 
security vulnerabilities in systems. Security patches may be 
released during the complete lifecycle of the software.  
It is important for system operators to know about existing 
security vulnerabilities and patches in order to evaluate and 
mitigate the associated security risks. Testing and installing 
security patches is an important element in closing existing 
security v ulnerabilities. Security patch management is es-
sential for effective cyber security.  
Scope of delivery  
The Security Patch Management service is built up in three 
levels and helps the customer to keep the software secure:  
• Bronze   
Monthly newsletter on available security patches rele-
vant for customers’ systems; information only, no testing  
• Silver  
Testing of security patches - on the Siemens Energy 
generic testbed and/ or on a customer specific replica  
• Gold  
Installation of tested security patches on site of the 
operational system during scheduled outages  
The three levels build up on each other. The silver level in-
cludes the bronze level service. Gold includes both silver 
and bronze levels.  Technical details of testing  
According to international standards and best practices, 
security patches should be evaluated and tested in a test 
environment before installation on the operational system.  
Siemens Energy has developed a generic HVDC and FACTS 
baseline testbed which is used for testing of security 
patches. The testbed provides an efficient way of testing 
the software compatibility. Customers will be regularly in-
formed about the testing result s. 
While the generic testbed comprises typical baseline sys-
tem configurations, the generic testbed setup does not in-
clude all customer specific system configurations. Custom-
ers interested in having tests performed on an exact system 
environment need a custome r specific replica. A replica is a 
copy of the operational HVDC/FACTS system components. 
Siemens Energy then performs the tests on the customer 
specific replica. If the replica is located at the customer’s 
premises it can also be used by the customer for a dditional 
purposes like trainings and system operation simulations.   Security Patch Management  
Keep your system updated and protected  
Cyber Security Service Portfolio for HVDC and FACTS  

 © 202 3 Siemens Energy  Page  3 
 
End of lifetime of software  
After the end of lifetime  of the software typically no secu-
rity patches are issued by the software vendor. In that case 
a system modification or upgrade to a current software ver-
sion should be considered to be able to continuously en-
sure the security of the system.  
ISO27001 Certification  
ISO27001 is a leading international standard for infor-
mation security management systems. Siemens Energy 
Transmission Lifecycle Services in Erlangen, Germany has 
received the ISO27001 certification since 2017.  
 
Published by © 202 3 Siemens Energy  
Grid Technologies Service  
Humboldtstr. 64  
90459 Nuremberg, Germany  
Customer Support Center  
Phone: +49 911 6505 6505  
E-Mail: support@siemens -energy.com  
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens -energy.com/ gt-services  
“Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this docu-
ment only contains general descriptions and/or performance features 
which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which 
may undergo modification in the course of further deve lopment of the 
pro-ducts. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.”  
   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.    
   