Press release  
Sieme ns Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , May 4 , 2021  
Siemens Energy’s grid stabilizer technology 
to help Irish grid exceed renewables 
penetration limit  
• Supply  of Ireland’s  first turnkey  synchronous  condenser  system  
• Installation  of the world’s  largest  flywheel  
• Ensuring grid stability by providing sufficient inertia, short -circuit power and reactive power  
 
Siemens Energy will supply a synchronous condenser system to the Electricity Supply Board (ESB), 
Ireland’s leading energy company. The grid stabilizing system will be developed at the Moneypoint 
power station located in South -West Ireland near Kilrush, County Clare . ESB recently announced the 
launch of Gre en Atlantic @ Moneypoint, an ambitious plan to transform the County Clare site into a 
green energy hub, where a range of renewable technologies will be deployed over the next decade 
with the capacity to power 1.6 million homes.  
 
The synchronous condenser, a key component of ESB’s Green Atlantic @ Moneypoint project, will 
be the first in the country and incorporate the world’s largest flywheel used for grid stability. The 
facility will enable an increased integration of wind power into the Irish grid by prov iding sufficient 
inertia for frequency support, short -circuit power for system strength and reactive power for 
voltage control. Commissioning of the new plant is planned for mid -2022.  
 
Paul Smith, Head of Asset Development at ESB Generation and Trading, welcomed the 
announcement: “Due to the intermittency of wind energy in particular, grid stabilization 
technologies have an increasingly important role in a successful energy transition. W e are pleased 
to bring forward the Moneypoint Synchronous Compensator with flywheel as a cost effective and 
zero carbon solution in strengthening the stability and resilience of the Irish grid. Siemens Energy 
provided an optimum technical and competitive s olution for Moneypoint in its continuing key role 
in Ireland’s electricity system.”  
 Press release  

Press release  
Sieme ns Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
Siemens Energy will deliver the synchronous condenser system, providing engineering, 
procurement, and construction. Key components are a control system which optimally fit s to the 
overlaying grid automation system, a synchronous generator with circuit -breaker and a flywheel. In 
addition, Siemens Energy will provide the preventive maintenance for ten years with remote 
diagnostics. The synchronous condenser will, in turn, hel p management of Ireland’s transmission 
system with a reduced dispatch of fossil fuel plant under constraints and reduced costs of 
transmission operations.  
 
“Synchronous condensers are an important building block for mastering the transition to climate -
neut ral, CO 2-free power generation,” says Beatrix Natter, Executive Vice President Transmission at 
Siemens Energy. “We are proud that ESB has chosen us to build the first system of this kind in 
Ireland. Our solution will provide the maximum possible inertia an d reactive power to stabilize the 
Irish grid, helping the country press ahead with its ambitious plans for the expansion of renewable 
energies.”  
 
Nick O’Mahony, Managing Director, Siemens Energy, Ireland, added: “The energy transition is 
happening at pace and to make sure the grid can keep up, we need to look at innovative solutions 
to keep the grid stable. I’m delighted we have been able to support ESB with this project, bringing 
this key technology to the country.”   
 
With the rising share of renewable po wer and the shutdowns of conventional plants, synchronous 
condensers are playing an increasingly important role in the grid. By means of the rotating mass of 
a conventional generator, the solution adjusts conditions on the transmission grid, provides the 
necessary inertia to support the grid frequency and short -circuit contribution while also providing or 
absorbing reactive power. In addition, synchronous condensers can diversify revenue for owners 
and operators while providing an important cash flow contri bution.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Sara Crane  
Phone: +44 7921 847640  
E-Mail: Sara.Crane@siemens -energy.com  
 
Christina Hümmer  
Telefon:  +49 152 07158923  
E-Mail:  Christina.Huemmer@siemens -energy.com  
Press release  
Sieme ns Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
This press release and a press picture are available at  
https://press.siemens -energy.com/global/en/pressrelease/siemens -energys -grid-stabilizer -
technol ogy-help -irish-grid-exceed -renewables  
For further informatio n on Siemens Energy Transmission, please see https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -transmission.html  
For further information on synchronous conden sers, please see https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -transmission/facts/portfolio/synchronouscondenser.html  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmissi on to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been d ecarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Sieme ns Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 