Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Berlin , October  17, 2023  
Two become one: Siemens Energy combines 
two technologies to stabilize the Irish grid   
Siemens Energy will deliver the first -ever hybrid grid stabilization and large -scale battery storage 
plant at Shannonbridge in Ireland. This is the first time,  these two technologies  have been 
combined into one, single grid connection to stabilize the grid  and make better use of renewable 
energy.  
 
Green energy for 9500 households  
The p roven synchronous condenser  technology uses a generator with a flywheel connected. It’s 
essentially a big "rotating mass “ and with its  stored energy, the synchronous condense r provides 
power reserve, which instantly compensates for frequency fluctuations and strengthens the 
stability of the grid.   
 
At the same time, a  large -scale battery energy storage system can store or release excess renewable 
energy  when it is needed. It p rovides a solution to maximize use of renewable energy, even when 
the wind is not blowing and with a capacity of around 160MWh the battery energy storage could 
supply around 9500 households  with power for a full day . 
 
“Innovative technical solutions are essential if we are to combat the consequences of climate 
change and transition to a net -zero grid . Battery storage systems will play an increasingly pivotal 
role in tomorrow’s global energy infrastructure ,” said Tim Holt, member of the Manag ing Board of 
Siemens Energy. “By combining our proven experience in grid technology and our ability to 
innovate, the Shannonbridge hybrid solution will help ramp -up renewables by offering storage and 
stabilization technology in one connection.”  
 
Siemens E nergy’s scope includes the synchronous condenser, including the flywheel which will 
deliver around 4000MWs of inertia onto the system, and the large -scale battery energy storage 
system with around 160MWh as well as power conversion systems, energy manageme nt system 
and medium voltage  equipment. The order will generate around 85 m Euros for Siemens Energy 
and work has already begun on site.  Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
A small island with big ambitions  
Achieving Ireland’s climate targets will require massive investment in energy infrastructure. By 
combining two innovative energy solutions via one connection, Siemens Energy will deliver a 
flexible system to help stabilize Ireland’s grid.  
 
Ireland aims to reach net -zero by 2050 and to reduce emissions by 51% by the end of the decad e, 
so is significantly increasing use of renewable energy. In addition to carbon emission reduction 
targets, the country is also experiencing significantly growing electricity demand, in part due to its 
global digital and data hosting industry.  
 
Flex ibility on offer  
The current market mechanism in Ireland allows operators to sell services like inertia, short circuit 
power and reactive power as provided by the synchronous condenser technology to the 
transmission system operator. To support this, Siemens Ene rgy will also provide an energy 
management system allowing the customer to respond to market demands and power needs in 
real-time.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Christina Hümmer  
Phone:   +49152 07158923  
E-mail:  Christina.Huemmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture are available at  
www.siemens -energy.com/press  
 
Follow us on X at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. Wi th its portfolio of 
products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation 
and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and 
steam  turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind  power 
subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes  Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable 
energies. An estimated one -sixth of the  electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. 
Siemens Energy employs around 9 4,000 people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of 
€29 billion in fiscal year 2022.  www.siemens -energy.com . 
  