 
 
 Page  1 of 3  Munich, August 11, 2020   
Siemens Energy delivers technology 
for seventh offshore wind farm 
connection in the North Sea  
• Low-loss transmission of wind energy for 1.1 million households  
• Further contribution to ward  decarbonizing energy supplies  
 
Siemens Energy is supplying the high -voltage direct -current (HVDC) 
power transmission technology for a further offshore connection in the 
German North Sea. A corresponding contract was just signed by the 
German -Dutch network operator TenneT and the BorWin5 Offshore 
Conso rtium, consisting of Siemens Energy and  Dragados Offshore . In 
2025, the platform BorWin epsilon, which is part of the BorWin5 project, 
will begin  the low -loss transmission of electricity produced by the EnBW 
He Dreiht wind farm off the island of Borkum to the Garrel/Ost converter 
station around 230 kilometers distant. The transmission capacity of 900 
megawatts is calculated to serve over 1.1 million households with 
electricity. The project is a further contribution toward decarbonizing 
Germany’s energy supp ly. BorWin5 marks  the seventh HVDC offshore grid 
connection project undertaken by Siemens Energy in Germany with 
TenneT.  
 
“We are especially pleased that we can again join with TenneT to make an 
important contribution to the decarbonization of Germany’s energy 
supply. The seventh order in the German North Sea underscores the great 
confidence in our HVDC technology,” emphasizes Beatrix Natter, 
Executive Vice President of the Transmission Division at Siemens Energy.  
“When DolWin6 and BorWin5 begin operation, we’ll have installed a total 
transmission capacity for 5.6 gigawatts of wind power in the German 
North Sea. This could supply around seven million German households 
with green electricity .” Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Alfons Benzinger  
Phone: +49 9131 1734649  
E-mail: alfons.benzinger  
@siemens.com  
 
Press release  
Frei verwendbar Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  2 of 3  The scope of supply for Siemens Energy and its Spanish partner Dra gados 
Offshore S.A. includes the turnkey construction and installation of the 
offshore platform in the North Sea and the converter station on land. The 
offshore converter station will convert the three -phase alternating 
current produced by the wind turbine s into direct current with a voltage 
of ±320  kilovolt s(kV) for low -loss transmission to land. The shoreside 
converter station in Garrel/Ost will then convert the electricity back into  
three -phase  alternating current for feeding into Germany’s power grid. 
Siemens Energy will supply the HVDC technology required for the project 
and build the shoreside station, while Dragados will be responsible for 
the design, procurement,  construction and installation of the offshore 
converter platform.  
 
 
 
Together with its partners, Siemens Energy has already built and installed 
five offshore HVDC connections in the German North Sea for TenneT . The 
DolWin6 and BorWin5 projects are currently being implemented.  
 
 
 

Press release  
Frei verwendbar Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  3 of 3  This press release  and a press picture are av ailable at  
https://sie.ag/31EcPpJ  
For further  information on North Sea grid connections, please see  
https://www.siemens.com/press/x -win 
For further inform ation on Siemens Energy, please see 
www.siemensenergy.com  
For further information on HVDC , please see  
www.siemens.com/hvdc  
 
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens 
group, which has been working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands 
of industry and society for mo re than 150 years. With planned stock listing, Siemens’ 
energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future.  
It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a 
comprehensive portfolio for utilities, ind ependent power producers, transmission system 
operators, the oil and gas industry, and other energy -intensive industries. With its 
products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, 
processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central 
and distributed thermal power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the 
energy transformation, including storage and sector -coupling solutions. The majority 
stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable  Energy will round out its future -oriented portfolio. 
With its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, 
Siemens Energy will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers 
on their path to a more sustai nable future. With around 90,000 employees worldwide, 
Siemens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and tomorrow. 
www.siemens -energy.com . 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  