Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Erlangen , March 10, 2021  
Siemens Energy  to supply  transformers  for 
China ’s first 66  kV offshore wind farm  
• 22 fluid -immersed distribution  transformers for Yuhuan Offshore Wind Power Project  
• First 66 kV offshore wind farm  support ing China ’s goal of carbon neutrality by 2060  
 
Siemens Energy will install  22 units of  distribution  transformers  at China’s first  commercial  66 
kilovolts (kV)  offshore wind  farm, Yuhuan  Offshore Wind Power Project Phase 1 , located in Taizhou, 
Zhejiang Province, southeastern China. The  fluid immersed transformers of type FITformer WIND  
will support  China Huadian Corporation (CHD) to optimize energy supply in the Yangtze River Delta 
region. With an installed capacity of 300 meg awatt the wind farm will supply  environmentally 
friendly  power to about 240,000 households  per year .   
 
“To successfully drive the energy transition , it is essential to increase the share of renewables in the 
energy mix . Equipped with  innovative state -of-the-art transformer technology , China’s first 66 kV 
offshore wind farm  will lead  the way  to a signifi cant increase of clean, renewable wind energy  to 
the grid  and will contribute to China ’s goal of carbon neutrality by 2060 ,” said Beatrix Natter, 
Executive Vice President Transmission at Siemens Energy.  
 
Growing  demand for wind energy has led to the development of increasingly stronge r wind 
turbines which produce 10 megawatts  and beyond , requiring higher  voltage levels and innovative 
power transmission technologies . The FITformer WIND transformer was developed to enable these 
larger power capacities with a voltage class of up to 72.5 k V. The compact and lightweight 
transformers for Phase 1 of the Yuhuan Offshore Wind Power Project  will be installed in the tower 
base of the wind turbines . With strong corrosion resistance  FITformer WIND transformers are fully 
suitable for  the hostile conditions of  marine environment operation  guarante eing high reliability 
and low maintenance requirements . In addition, the  highly efficient transformer s are filled with 
biodegradable synthetic ester insulating oil  instead of conventional mineral oil , which is particularly 
environmentally friendly and fire safe.  
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
The first phase of the Yuhuan Offshore Wind Power Project is scheduled to be completed by the end 
of 2021 and will effectively optimize energy supply in the Yangtze River delta. After commis sioning 
the project  is for ecast  to result in a reduction of  584,000 tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions  
per year , which is more than 12,600 passenger cars emit in one  year.  
 
The order continues Siemens Energy’s recent global track record of power trans mission projects in 
the wind energy sector. To date more than 2.500 units of the ester fluid immersed FITformer WIND 
were installed in wind offshore applications worldwide.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Christina Hümmer  
Phone:  +49 152 07158923  
E-mail:  Christina.Huemmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release is available at  
www.siemens -energy.com/press   
For further information o n Siemens Energy FITformer  distribution transformers , please see 
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/offerin gs/power -
transmission/transformers/distribution -transformers.html  
For further information on wind power transmission at Siemens Energy, please visit our press 
feature  
www.siemens -energy.com/pre ss/windenergy  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmissi on to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy ( SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 