Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Munich , August 30 , 2022  
Siemens  Energy technology stabilizes 
German power  grid 
The German -Dutch grid operator TenneT has commissioned Siemens Energy to supply three grid 
stabilization systems  for the German power grid. Such solutions are necessary because conventional 
power plants not only generate electricity but also automatically stabilize the grid (via their physical 
behavior). As more and more conventional power plants are taken off the grid and replaced by 
electricity from decentralized renewable energy sources as part of the energy transition, 
transmission system operators will  have to find alternative solutions to transport more energy while 
maintaining overall stability . Two of the three systems are synchronous condenser . A synchronous 
condenser  essentially consists of a generator and a flywheel. The generator sets the flywhee l in 
rotation. As a result,  kinetic energy  is stored  that can  then  e.g. feed active power  into the grid for 
stabilization when needed. Siemens Energy will build the synchronous condenser  in 
Großkrotzenburg (Hesse) and Würgassen ( North Rhine -Westphalia ). TenneT is currently 
modernizing the substation i n Würgassen , followed by Großkrotzenburg in the next years, to make 
them fit for the energy turnaround as important network hubs . 
 
The third of the three solutions  is a techn olog ical premie re: the world's first reactive power 
compensation system with supercapacitors (Static Var Compensator Frequency Stabilizer; SVC PLUS 
FS for short). It will use s hort-term storage in the form of supercapacitors. The supercapacitors are 
able to  counteract fl uctuations in the grid frequency either by actively charging themselves for a 
short time , thereby withdrawing up to 200 megawatts from the grid, or by feeding the stored 
power into the grid. Th is enables the  SVC PLUS FS to respond to fluctuations in the gr id much more 
quickly  than conventional battery storage solutions. It also requires a third of the  space. Siemens 
Energy will build the solutions  in Mehrum in Lower Saxony. Th is state produces by far the most 
onshore wind energy  in Germany , and here  in part icular , grid expansion is an important prerequisite 
for a reliable power supply. The three system s are scheduled to be commissioned  in 2025.  
 
Tim Holt, Member of the Managing Board at Siemens Energy:  "The main  strength of the European 
power grid is its resilience . It guarantees security of supply , which also guarantees  prosperity. To 
ensure that this remains the case in the future, investments in grid stability are extremely Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
important. Here, too, there ’s no tim e to lose , because the energy transition isn't just a matter of  
replacing fossil fuels with renewables. Ultimately,  electricity also  has to  be reliably  delivered to  
consumers' outlets . That's also the motivation behind  this project."  
 
Contact for journalis ts 
Christina Hümmer  
Phone :  +49 152 07158923  
E-mail:  christina.huemmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture is  available at  
www.siemens -energy.com/press  
For further information on grid stabilization  please see  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -transmission/portfolio/flexible -ac-
transmission -systems.html  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energ y is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and servi ces, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydr ogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 
50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energi es. An estimated one -sixth 
of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 
91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €28.5  billion in fiscal year 2021. 
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
 