Supporting  
Grid Stability
Building a New Energy System with  
Synchronous Condenser Conversion
White paper
siemens-energy.com
Content
03 Executive Summary
04 The energy transition does not make it 
easy for grid stability
05 Thermal power plants are critical for 
maintaining grid stability
06 Preparing the grid for the energy 
transition 
08 Synchronous condenser conversions  
are a win-win for power plant and grid  
operators alik e10 Rotating Grid Stabilizer (RGS) – A 
conversion solution by Siemens Energy
11 It is happening: Two RGS Case Studies
13 Regulatory frameworks to incentivize 
power plants for grid services
15 ConclusionRGS conversion with a flywheel at Killingholme Power Station, UK
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 2
Executive Summary
Countries throughout the Asia-Pacific region have become 
increasingly interested in renewable energy. Climate 
change concerns, economic competitiveness, and 
advancements in renewable energy technologies are 
giving countries such as Australia, Korea, and Vietnam a 
reason to replace traditional power generation methods 
with renewable resources. Such resources can also help 
them meet their ambitious decarbonization goals.
Yet, while wind, solar, and other renewable resources hold 
great promise for the future of clean energy, they also 
pose challenges to grid stability. Solar and wind output 
fluctuates depending on current weather conditions, and 
unlike large, rotating generators, both resources lack 
inherent inertia. Since renewable resources often struggle 
to provide voltage stability and frequency control, power 
plant and power network system operators in APAC coun -
tries must be prepared to encounter grid instability issues, 
such as voltage dips, surges, and blackouts. 
Despite these challenges, researchers and engineers are 
developing solutions to integrate renewables into the 
grid. Siemens Energy is committed to being part of this 
effort by providing a cost-effective and efficient solution 
for power plant and power network system operators who 
want to avoid stranding their existing assets. Siemens 
Energy Rotating Grid Stabilizer (RGS) conversion allows 
generators from peaker plants or retired thermal power 
plants to be repurposed and used to support grid stability. 
It can also expand the capabilities of a gas turbine, trans -
forming it into a dual operating system that alternates 
between power generation and grid stabilization mode.
Assets at risk of becoming obsolete can be evaluated to 
determine whether they can be repurposed in this way.  
If they can, power plant and power network system 
 operators can leverage those assets rather than building 
new grid infrastructure. This strategic move addresses 
their plant’s evolving energy needs and is intended to 
bring multiple benefits.
Not every generator is conducive to synchronous condenser 
conversion; however, when viability is established, this conversion process can, in most cases, extend the lifespan 
of traditional generators and help support grid stability 
throughout the energy transition. Stabilizing voltage and 
frequency across the grid using synchronous condensers 
enhances the electrical system’s reliability and is crucial in 
seamlessly integrating renewable energy sources. 
While synchronous condensers primarily provide reactive 
power for grid stability, dual-mode turbine solutions can 
generate additional active power. A dual-mode turbine 
solution makes switching between reactive and active 
power easy, allowing operators to adapt to changing grid 
needs while capturing additional markets. 
Furthermore, using existing infrastructure can decrease 
the plant’s capital investment compared to constructing 
new greenfield projects. Policymakers in APAC countries 
should create regulatory frameworks to incentivize syn -
chronous condenser conversions, so grid operators are 
more willing to integrate them.
Repurposing existing generators as synchronous con -
densers can help unlock new revenue streams through 
grid stability services, offering power plant and power 
network system operators a compelling economic incen -
tive to consider this option. This revenue potential –  
coupled with reduced decommissioning costs and en  -
vironmental benefits – positions synchronous condenser 
conversion as a win-win solution for power plant and 
power network system operators not only in the Asia-  
Pacific region but worldwide.
Synchronous condenser conversions offer an innovative 
solution to the grid stability challenges of renewable 
energy resources. Successfully navigating the dynamic 
landscape of the energy sector will require a for -
ward-thinking approach that acknowledges the myriad 
benefits of synchronous condenser conversion. Mecha -
nisms for financial incentives can possibly encourage grid 
operators to seek the best model to ensure grid stability. 
This, in turn, can help the country incorporate more 
renewable energy and decarbonize its energy system 
more effectively.
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 3
1 The energy transition does not make it  
easy for grid stability
As countries worldwide push the energy transition to reach 
net zero emissions, they face a crucial challenge: grid 
stability. There are two main reasons for this. The first is 
the rising share of renewables in the energy mix. At 
COP28, countries committed to tripling global renewable 
power capacity by 2030 from today’s levels. Please add a 
new sentence: Yet, renewables are intermittent, decentral -
ized, and do not deliver the inertia, short-circuit power, or 
reactive power required to ensure grid stability. The other 
reason is the decreasing operation of thermal power 
plants. As the share of renewable energy going into the 
grid increases, more and more gas power plants are being 
operated as peaker plants. At the same time, coal-fired 
power plants are being phased out. This is an additional 
challenge as the rotating equipment in thermal power 
plants has typically supported grid stability.Stable grids are essential for the security of power supply  
and for the integration of more renewable energy. Without 
enough grid inertia and short-circuit power, outages can 
occur. 
Power plant and network system operators must collabo -
rate to minimize power grid instability. Energy policy and 
regulatory frameworks must also promote this collabora -
tion to help ensure a smooth energy transition.
Several solutions, such as inverters and batteries can 
support grid stability, but synchronous condensers are the 
leading solution to provide grid inertia, short-circuit 
power, and voltage control in combination. With fossil-fuel 
power plants being shut down worldwide despite the 
rising share of renewables, the opportunity arises to turn 
their generators and turbines into synchronous 
condensers. This white paper will discuss how this solution 
can help, especially in the Asia Pacific region.
For that purpose, the white paper will first lay out four 
essential features of grid stability. It will continue by 
outlining how a power grid based on renewables can be 
redesigned. Then, it will explain how synchronous 
condenser conversion helps offer a win-win for power 
plant and grid operators and lay out Siemens Energy 
Rotating Grid Stabilizer Conversion solutions. This will be 
followed by two case studies that show that the change is 
already happening, including in APAC. As all this would  
not happen without regulatory frameworks supporting 
grid stability services, the white paper will detail what 
these regulations entail and where they are already being 
implemented. Unsurprisingly, it ends with a call to action – 
all parties involved need to work together to help support 
grid stability and move the energy transition forward.
Maintaining the
frequency of 
power transmissionEnsuring voltage
stability
Delivering
uninterrupted
load ﬂowBlack start
capability
Critical features for grid stability
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 4
2 Thermal power plants are critical for 
 maintaining grid stability
There are four critical features required to safeguard grid stability: First, maintaining the frequency of power 
transmission; second, ensuring voltage stability and fault ride through during short-circuit events; third, deliv -
ering uninterrupted load flow; and fourth, black start capability to ensure the power plant can be repowered after 
a blackout. All four features are vital for grid stability and, therefore, for grid operators. Thermal power plants 
with generators and turbines are critical in providing frequency, voltage stability and fault ride through as well as 
black start capabilities. 
Frequency
Maintaining the frequency of power transmission is  essential. 
When everything runs smoothly, this is mainly achieved 
through the inertia in the system generated by thermal power 
plants’ rotating equipment, such as generators or turbines.
But what is inertia? Inertia is the resistance of a physical 
object to any change in velocity – essentially, the kinetic 
energy that keeps something moving. In energy terms, inertia 
is energy stored in the physical rotating mass of a turbo set. 
It helps slow the rate at which the grid frequency changes, as 
rapid changes can create instability in the system and lead to 
loss of generation, or a blackout in the most serious case. In 
APAC, the frequency is either 50 Hz or 60 Hz.
If the system is disturbed, the inertial response usually 
comes from rotating generators and turbines. Yet today, with 
fewer rotating machines online, grid operators are forced to 
keep more power plants or synchronous condensers in 
operation to preserve this instantaneous reserve.
These rotating masses are critical in the event of a drop in 
frequency. They store vast amounts of energy that is always 
available without delay to cover the initial fractions of seconds 
of a frequency drop. It slows the drop for long enough to 
allow more electricity to be fed into the grid in response to the 
drop in frequency, using, for example, batteries, supercapaci -
tors, quick-start gas motors, or other fossil-fuel-based power 
stations on standby to restore the frequency to its rated value.
Voltage stability and  
fault ride through
Voltage needs to remain at a certain level to ensure 
 con sistent power quality. It is crucial to maintain, as power 
often travels long distances and renewables’ in-feed is 
inter  mittent. The main lever here is reactive power, usually from synchronous generators in conventional power 
plants. However, with the steadily increasing share  
of converter-based power sources like solar and wind,  
other means are needed to address voltage, such as  
stand-alone synchronous condensers and power 
electronics.
Load flow
Load management is another significant building block for 
grid stability. It is especially challenging as the increase in 
renewables risks overloading existing transmission lines. 
One solution to control load flow is using the Unified 
Power Flow Controller (UPFC) based on power electronics. 
It can expand lines’ transmission capacity by compensating 
the overhead lines’ electrical impedance. If overload 
occurs, another remedy is redundancy, whereby power is 
redirected to parallel lines to distribute it more evenly.
Black Start capability
If a blackout occurs, the power system needs to be re -
stored. This happens from top down by starting up central -
ized large power plants with generators and connecting 
them. However, as no electricity may be available at the 
site of a power plant, it may take an on-site separate diesel 
generator and / or a Battery Energy Storage Solution (BESS) 
to restart a power grid from scratch. In a wide power grid 
that includes a high share of renewables, it also helps to 
incorporate microgrids that can be isolated from the larger 
grid or be used to rebuild from a wider blackout more 
efficiently.
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 5
3 Preparing the grid for the energy transition 
Wind and solar power are non-synchronous and provide no system inertia. Therefore, as the share of renewable 
energy increases in grids originally designed for thermal power plants, it is necessary to redesign them so  
that power demand can be met and grid stability is ensured. Four crucial building blocks help create a power grid 
fit for the energy transition: more transmission lines, energy storage solutions, two-way electricity flow, and 
 stability technologies such as synchronous condensers. 
1 International Energy Agency, “Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions”
2 International Energy Agency, “Electricity Grids and Secure Energy Transitions”
3 Australian Government Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water, “Rewiring the Nation”
4 Channel News Asia, “Singapore begins importing renewable energy from Laos through Thailand and Malaysia”
5 International Energy Agency, “Grid-scale Storage”
6 Emerging Technology News, “No looking back: Energy transition in Japan, South Korea, and the Philippines”More transmission lines
A decentralized grid of renewables needs more power 
lines. By 2040, the International Energy Agency (IEA) 
estimates that 80 million kilometers of new transmission 
lines must be added to meet countries’ national climate 
goals1, roughly doubling the size of today’s grids globally. 
By 2030, this will require an investment of $60 billion 
annually. This is not just to add capacity but also to mod -
ernize the infrastructure. In Australia, one of the few 
countries worldwide reporting on grid reliability, over 90% 
of supply interruptions originate from distribution grids.2 
That is why the country announced a program investing 
$20 billion to modernize the electricity grid and infrastruc -
ture.3 In Singapore, renewable energy is imported from 
Laos using the existing grid going through Thailand and 
Malaysia.4
With an urgent extension of the power grid, the expansion 
of renewables will be improved because many new proj -
ects will be able to connect to the grid. Especially grid 
projects involving several jurisdictions usually take consid -
erably more time to deliver than renewable generation 
projects. One example is the Marinus link connecting 
Tasmania with Victoria in Australia. Its first feasibility studies date back to 2017, yet completion is not expected 
before 2031. 
Part of the grid expansion will be High Voltage Direct 
Current (HVDC) interconnections. This technology allows 
the efficient transmission of electricity over longer dis -
tances with lower losses than traditional alternating 
current (AC) transmission lines, thereby efficiently aiding 
in balancing electricity supply and demand. DC grid 
 connections, however, can impact the grid stability and 
grid operators need to assess grid stability requirements  
as a result of an evolving grid. 
Grid-scale storage
Grid-storage solutions are essential to the energy 
 transition.5 If an imbalance between supply and demand 
threatens to persist on the grid, reserves, such as  
additional power stations and storage facilities, can 
 contribute more energy or remove it from the grid. 
The most common storage is pumped-storage hydro  - 
power. In the future, though, more and more batteries are 
expected to help stabilize power flow in a weak grid or  
over long transmission lines. South Korea, for example, has 
one of the largest energy storage capacities in the Asia-  
Pacific region, supporting grid stability and integration of 
renewables.6
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 6
At times of high energy generation, the risk of overloading 
lines is great if no grid storage is available. In consequence, 
energy generation may, in part, be curtailed. When energy 
generation is low, more energy may be needed to meet 
demand, resulting in the need for additional infeed. Here, 
battery storage facilities can also help avoid expensive 
re-dispatch measures by dispensing power wherever 
necessary. 
If instabilities in the grid cause a blackout, batteries can 
deliver the necessary jolt to turn the lights back on. And 
finally, since batteries can store power for only several 
hours, during ‘dunkelflaute’ (a period in which little to no 
energy can be generated due to insufficient wind and solar 
power), long-duration energy storage (LDES) solutions, 
such as thermal and compressed air energy storage, 
hydrogen or pumped hydro may help to keep the energy 
flowing.
Two-way electricity flow
The grid was built using a one-way model where power is 
generated centrally close to major cities and transported 
through different means of transmission to consumers. 
Today, consumers are becoming energy producers, cre -
ating a two-way power flow – consuming energy from the 
grid when needed and feeding it back into the grid when 
they have a surplus. In addition, when a section of the grid 
experiences an outage, microgrids with bidirectional 
capabilities can provide power to maintain essential ser -
vices. Finally, two-way electricity flow improves voltage 
and frequency control by enabling distributed energy 
resources to inject or absorb power as needed7, contrib -
uting to the grid’s resilience.
7 International Energy Agency, “Distributed energy resources for net zero: An asset or a hassle to the electricity grid?”Synchronous condensers
As more and more fossil fuel power plants are phased out 
in the coming years, the grid will lose the rotating mass 
that today ensures grid stability. The most mature solution 
addressing this challenge is synchronous condensers that 
supply short-circuit power and stabilizing frequency.
Based simply on their physical behavior, synchronous 
condensers automatically provide a system response that 
stabilizes the grid. As they release no emissions, they are 
environmentally sound, especially if the small amount of 
energy that feeds them is renewable. They are also cost-  
efficient, as their lifetime ranges from 30 to 40 years.
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 7
4 Synchronous condenser conversions  
are a win-win for power plant and grid  
operators alike
  8 KPMG, ”Decarbonization through renewable energy”
  9 Australian Energy Market Operator, “Draft 2024 ISP Consultation”
10 International Energy Agency, “Coal 2023 – Analysis and forecast to 2026”
11 Synchronous Condenser MarketThe situation of power plant operators
Phasing out thermal power plants poses challenges for 
plant operators. In Australia, for example, power plants’ 
revenue depends on the hour electricity is dispatched. The 
operating hours are reduced if the off-taker’s requirements 
for the power plant are shifted to mitigate the fluctuation 
of renewable energy. As a consequence, the power plant’s 
revenue can suffer.
In other APAC countries such as Malaysia, Vietnam, Thai -
land, and the Philippines, Power Purchase Agreements 
(PPAs) between power producers and corporations priori -
tize renewables or efficient power plants. This means  
that older power plants fall to the bottom of the merit  
order and are less utilized.8The circumstances can be even worse for coal-fired power 
plants. In Australia, 90% of the country’s coal-fired power 
plants will retire by 2034/35 and all by 2037 / 38.9 Likewise, 
in South Korea, the share of coal-fired power generation is 
expected to decrease from 34% in 2021 to 20% in 2030.10 
Converting these retired coal plants to operate as synchro -
nous condensers is an elegant way of repurposing these 
otherwise stranded assets. Many power plant operators 
have recognized the potential of adding a grid stability 
revenue stream as the global demand for new synchronous 
condensers has increased.11 Two reference studies will 
show this further.
The situation of grid operators
With fewer thermal power plants, grid operators must 
adapt to managing a more variable, largely renewable, 
energy supply. The rising share of decentralized renewable 
energy generation may mean they need to expand their 
transmission networks. They also must find new ways to 
ensure grid stability with less short-circuit power and 
system inertia. For that, they can take various measures, 
including utilizing other forms of dispatchable power 
generation, such as gas-fired power plants, or imple -
menting demand-side management strategies to balance 
supply and demand.
Another option is entering into service contracts with plant 
operators that convert their generators to synchronous 
condensers. These contracts can potentially save on the 
cost of running gas turbines while still retaining enough 
system inertia, and short-circuit power.
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 8
Getting the job done: Converting plant 
generators into synchronous condensers 
Transforming plant generators into synchronous con -
densers is an attractive option, helping both plant and grid 
operators and grid stability. And it shows – an uptrend  
of synchronous condenser solutions on a global scale is 
underway. 
It is especially advantageous to convert generators in 
existing power plants that may otherwise become 
stranded assets. This can enable continued employment  
of qualified personnel, which can ease socioeconomic 
strains on local communities. In addition, a conversion  
can leverage existing equipment and infrastructure, such 
as the balance of the plant and grid connection. As power 
plants are usually located at essential nodes of a nation’s 
power grid, these connections are conveniently available 
to synchronous condensers in case of a conversion. Grid 
services must be delivered at these nodes as the grid 
design warrants it. Compared to greenfield projects, a brownfield solution 
can cost considerably less; it can potentially save up to  
50% in capital investment. It can also be implemented 
faster. Once an engineering study is completed, a simple 
conversion can potentially be completed within six 
months. Overall, it would be expected to require less 
paperwork and fewer permits. In some cases, greenfield 
solutions may be necessary if renewables dominate a 
power grid and there are not any thermal power plants 
close enough to supply the required grid-stability 
 services, for example. 
Regardless of whether a brownfield or greenfield solution  
is chosen, synchronous condensers are highly reliable, 
meaning they are designed to require minimal mainte -
nance, keeping associated costs low. Furthermore, as 
compensation models for grid stabilization services con -
tinue to be adopted, new revenue streams can be created 
for power plant operators. This also means that the cost  
of transforming an existing generator or building a new 
synchronous condenser can be offset by its long lifespan 
and the revenue stream it generates. 
Maximize grid 
stabilityReduce carbon footprintSeamless integration of 
renewable energy Switch between reactive and active 
power with dual-mode turbine solutionsReactive power for voltage control; inertia for 
frequency control
Open up new revenue streams 
through grid stability servicesFaster project implementation 
than new buildUtilization of the existing grid infrastructure 
resulting in less paperwork and fewer permitsExtend generator lifespan
Avoid stranding assets
Up to 50% cheaper than new build
Beneﬁts of converting 
thermal power plants into 
synchronous condensers
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 9
5 Rotating Grid Stabilizer (RGS) – A conversion 
solution by Siemens Energy
Siemens Energy offers Rotating Grid Stabilizer (RGS) Conversion solutions leveraging its engineering expertise 
and service capabilities. They comprise complete solutions for converting existing power plant equipment into 
synchronous condensers, from engineering to installation and commissioning. 
Three different ways to transform generators 
into an RGS
Overall, three different solutions exist to transform a gener -
ator into an RGS. The first is basic RGS conversion, which is 
swift and cost-effective. This solution comprises decommis -
sioning and dismantling turbine components and removing 
the turbine connection. While this solution can contribute a 
reasonable amount of inertia, many grids need more. 
As a second option, inertia can be multiplied by adding 
flywheels with scalable and customized designs. This 
approach is intended to preserve the inherent inertia 
originally provided by the turbines. 
For both options, the performance of the converted RGS 
depends on the capacity of generators and flywheels. For 
example, for 130 MVA-rated generators, typically used for 
the SGT5-2000E gas turbine frame, an RGS is calculated to 
provide a short-circuit contribution of approximately 350 
to 400 MVA. The electrical inertia of the generator alone 
has been calculated to be approximately 250 megawatt-  seconds (MW.s). When adding the flywheel type SE-FLY5-
250, the inertia may increase up to 1500 MW.s based on 
current developed solutions.* With a bigger flywheel from 
Siemens Energy, the inertia may increase up to 3750 MW.s.*
In the third option, a synchronous condenser is coupled to a 
turbine via an additional Synchro-Self-Shifting clutch. Fly -
wheels can be added as an option. In this Hybrid RGS conver -
sion, the unit can switch instantly from power generation to 
grid stabilization. Switching from grid stability to power 
generation mode is expected to take less than 30 minutes for 
the RGS unit based on the SGT5-2000E gas turbine.
The equipment’s Instrumentation & Control systems may 
need to be modified for all three solutions. This generally 
applies to gas and steam turbine trains. 
* The exact performance number may vary by site and depends on 
each generator’s physical design and the type of flywheel as well as 
the technical feasibility of shaft line rotor dynamics, turboset 
foundation modifications, civil engineering aspects, and electrical 
infrastructure required for the startup and shutdown of the syn -
chronous condenser. electrical infrastructure required for the 
startup and shutdown of the synchronous condenser.
Basic RGS Conversion
Basic RGS Conversion 
with additional ﬂywheel 
to maximize inertia
Coupling a synchronous 
condenser with a turbine via 
Synchro-Self-Shifting (SSS) 
clutch for dual-mode operation
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 10
6 It is happening: Two RGS Case Studies 
Two case studies show how existing equipment can be converted to synchronous condensers to support  
grid stability. 
12 GHD Advisory, “GHD Report for ARENA – Managing system strength during the transition to renewables”
13 Powerlink Queensland, “Request for Power System Security Services in Central, Southern and Broader Queensland Regions”Hybrid RGS Conversion at Townsville Power 
Station, Australia
With the rising share of renewables in Australia’s energy 
mix, grid stability from rotating equipment has substan -
tially decreased. Therefore, the Australian Energy Market 
Operator (AEMO) requires grid operators like Powerlink  
to provide a minimum fault level and procure system 
strength.12 After reviewing eight different possible solu -
tions, Powerlink concluded the addition of a clutch to the 
shaft between the gas turbine and the synchronous  
generator at the Townsville Power Station (TPS) was the 
least-cost option to address the shortfall and entered  
into a System Strength Services Agreement with TPS for 
the provision of system strength services.13 
The benefits to the plant owner RATCH-Australia are a 
new revenue stream from providing grid services and the 
capability to switch flexibly between power generation 
and grid stabilization modes. Moreover, the grid stabilization capability can come at up to 50% less cost 
than a new synchronous condenser, and it can typically 
be completed in approximately 18 months instead of 
three years. The RGS can also usually be serviced in the 
same maintenance cycle as the gas turbine. 
Siemens Energy will provide integrated service solutions 
to convert the gas turbine to a Hybrid RGS during a 
scheduled major outage in 2025. Replacing the inter -
mediate shaft of the gas turbine with a Synchro-Self-
Shifting (SSS) clutch is designed to provide an instanta -
neous switch from power generation to synchronous 
condenser mode. When in syn  chronous condenser 
mode, the Hybrid RGS unit can provide rotating inertia 
and short-circuit power without the need to produce 
power and is calculated to provide a short-circuit contri -
bution of approximately 350 to 400 MVA. The electrical 
inertia while operating in the grid stabilization mode is 
calculated to be around 250 megawatt-seconds (MW.s) 
and around 1,000 MW.s while operating in power genera -
tion mode.
Hybrid RGS conversion at the Townsville Power Station, Australia
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 11
Flywheel Conversion at the Killingholme 
Power Station, UK 
In 2017, two sets of steam turbines and associated genera -
tors were decommissioned at Uniper’s Killingholme power 
plant as the plant changed from a combined-cycle to an 
open-cycle operation. When the UK’s grid system operator, 
National Grid ESO, launched the Stability Pathfinder 
project, Killingholme was identified as a prime site for 
Uniper to provide dedicated grid stability services by repur -
posing its retired steam turbines and associated generators. A Uniper and Siemens Energy engineering team removed 
the steam turbine and reused the generator as a grid stabi -
lizer. Then they added a flywheel in place of the turbine, 
in  creasing the total plant inertia by 2574 MW.s. As a result, 
the Rotating Grid Stabilizer units provide 60% more inertia 
to the grid than the original steam turbine units and 
provide short-circuit power. Siemens Energy was respon -
sible for designing, supplying, installing, and commis -
sioning major equipment, including flywheels, auxiliary 
systems, electrical start-up systems, an excitation system, 
and protection.  
The scope of supply also included the fully 
redundant Omnivise T3000 control system, 
including vibration monitoring for the 
 synchronous condenser and its implementa -
tion into the existing control room. In addi -
tion, Siemens Energy provided engineering 
for civils, pipework and electrical system 
integration.This also enables the integration 
of renewable energy sources while main -
taining a secure and stable grid. Repurposing 
this asset provides several benefits: it uses 
retired generators and provides essential grid 
stabilizing services to National Grid ESO 
without the need to generate power, pro -
actively supporting the UK’s grid stability.
Flywheel RGS conversion at the Killingholme Power Station, UK
Scan the QR code to watch  
the video.“We worked closely with Siemens 
Energy to develop a bespoke 
solution to repurpose the existing 
steam turbine generators by 
adding a flywheel in place of the 
turbines to provide grid stability 
and inertia as a result of the 
project.”
Tom Kavanagh, Plant Manager at Killingholme
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 12
7 Regulatory frameworks to incentivize power 
plants for grid services
Regulatory frameworks are essential to guide the implementation of grid stability services. Various measures can 
be taken to incentivize that goal. 
14 International Trade Administration, “Malaysia Country Commercial Guide, Renewable Energy”
15 International Energy Agency, “Thailand’s Clean Electricity Transition”
16 S&P Global Commodity Insights, ‘Vietnam Power Market Profile”
17 ElectraNet, “System Strength Requirements in SA | Regulatory Investment Test – Transmission”
18 Australian Renewable Energy Agency, “Repurposing Existing Generators as Synchronous Condensers”
19 Australian Energy Market Operator, “Guide to Ancillary Services in the National Electricity Market”
20 Australian Energy Market Commission, “National Electricity Amendment (Fast Frequency Response Market Ancillary Service) Rule”It starts with enforcing grid codes and technical standards 
to define grid stability. For example, frequency control 
includes defining frequency response requirements and 
establishing markets and pricing regulations for grid sta -
bility services. In addition, the integration of renewables 
into the power grid must be regulated, and demand 
response programs must be implemented. Last, all these 
measures must be guided by a comprehensive roadmap 
attempting to achieve net zero energy emissions, including 
grid stability measures.
APAC is at an early stage for these frameworks, yet there is 
a need for them. Malaysia plans to increase its renewable 
capacity from 6 GW to 14 GW by 2050.14 Thailand needs to 
add 74 GW (relative to 2021) to meet its emissions targets.15 
Vietnam also needs to address the issue of its long trans -
mission distances between power sources and load 
centers. In 2019 and 2020, solar PV generation in some 
provinces caused curtailment due to grid congestion 
because of capacity limits.16
Australia’s Requirements for Inertia Service 
Providers
Australia is arguably one of the most advanced countries 
driving the energy transition and decarbonization ambi -
tion, including the regulatory framework supporting the 
transition. In its most recent Integrated System Plan  from 
2022, the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) 
estimates that 60% of coal-fired power generation will be 
phased out by 2030 and entirely gone by 2050. Until then, 
the operating regimes of the power plants are expected to 
move toward a peaker mode. Renewables are expected to 
rise from around 32% in 2022 to 83% in 2031 to 98% by 
2050. In the face of inertia increasingly leaving the system, it is 
not surprising that AEMO has identified inertia shortfalls as 
a concern for its ‘National Electricity Market.’ Conse -
quently, Inertia Service Providers (transmission network 
service providers or jurisdictional planning bodies) are 
required to address this issue by ensuring a minimum fault 
level for the power grid and an efficient level of strength.17 
Various options are being laid out in its 2022 report on 
System Strength  and Inertia .
Some of the critical elements to address these potential 
shortfalls, as AEMO states , are synchronous generators 
and synchronous condensers with flywheels. If 100% 
renewable energy penetration can be achieved, AEMO 
predicts that around 40 new synchronous condensers each 
rated at 125 Mega Volt Amp (MVA) are required across 
Australia’s National Electricity Market. To meet this 
demand, repurposing existing generators as synchronous 
condensers is a viable alternative to support grid stability.18 
Markets for grid stability in APAC
Mandating power plant operators to ensure grid stability 
can require heavy capital investments, creating financial 
burdens and risks for grid operators, utilities, or even 
governments issuing credits. That is why financial incen -
tives are crucial for enabling grid operators and utilities to 
offer these services. 
In Australia, this function is fulfilled by Frequency Control 
Ancillary Services (FCAS) markets operated by AEMO.19  
As the share of renewables increases, lower operating 
levels of inertia have become more common. AEMO has 
addressed this by creating two new markets for a fast-  
frequency response20, requiring two seconds or less 
response time.
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 13
Beyond that, a demand for a primary frequency response 
that requires stabilizing frequency within ten seconds or 
less already exists.21 
Most other countries in APAC, such as South Korea, Bangla -
desh, or Vietnam, do not have a clear regulatory frame -
work addressing grid stability yet. South Korea, though, in 
its 10th Basic Plan on Electricity Supply and Demand men -
tions synchronous condensers and BESS as a solution to 
tackle the expected expansion of renewables in the grid.22
Outside APAC, countries have established markets similar  
to Australia. National Grid ESO, UK’s electricity system 
operator launched the Stability Pathfinder project in 2021. 
21 Australian Energy Market Operator, “Primary Frequency Response Requirements”
22 Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, “Review of Synchronous Condenser Capacity as an Alternative to FACTs for Improving Transient Stability 
in Jeonnam Region”
23 National Grid ESO, “NOA Stability Pathfinder”
24 National Grid ESO, “NOA Stability Pathfinder”
25 AFRY, “Report to National Grid ESO – Stability market design innovation project”  Stability market design innovation project”It aims to find cost-effective ways to ensure grid stability.23 
The first of three phases resulted in several contracts 
awarded to providers for grid stability services. The second 
phase focused on increasing the short-circuit level in 
Scotland, and the third phase on increasing inertia and 
short-circuit levels in England and Wales.24 Beyond these, 
synchronous energy generation keeps contributing to grid 
stability, just like mechanisms ensuring a balance of supply 
and demand. 25
65 GW
32.5 GW
Australia72 GW
27.2 GW
South Korea76 GW
18.5 GW
Vietnam
17 GW
9.2 GW
Malaysia20222030Installed capacity targets for renewable energy
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 14
8 Conclusion
Synchronous condensers are a mature technical solution 
that are expected to play a crucial role in enhancing grid 
stability worldwide in years and decades to come. They  
are designed to provide inertia, short-circuit power, and 
re active power, especially as electricity generation relies 
more on renewable energy sources with intermittent 
outputs. Repurposing retired or converting operating 
generators has the added advantage of avoiding stranded 
assets, saving investment costs, and faster implementation.
Yet, to fully leverage these benefits, collaboration among 
power plant operators, grid operators, and policymakers 
is critical. Power plant operators must recognize the value of investing in and deploying synchronous condensers. 
Grid operators must incorporate them into their grid 
management strategies, optimizing their placement and 
operation to maximize grid stability and reliability. Policy -
makers must create a regulatory framework that incentiv -
izes plant and grid operators to implement synchronous 
condensers. 
To accomplish this, all stakeholders need to take a long 
view. It can take years for financing to be in place and  
for regulations to become effective. The energy transi -
tion, and hence grid stability, takes long-term planning, 
commit  ment, and everybody working together. 
Considerations for plant operators before  
deciding on a Synchronous Condenser Conversion
There are three essential considerations a plant operator should assess before  
deciding on a synchronous condenser transformation. 
First,  verify the present and  
future grid requirements. Second, the condition of a 
plant’s existing equipment 
and infrastructure. The gener -
ator and transformer are 
critical equipment that is 
important in determining the 
unit’s capability. Third, evaluate the feasibility 
of installing a clutch and/or a 
flywheel to decide on the best 
option for an existing power 
plant.2 3 1
Supporting Grid Stability | White Paper
Siemens Energy, 2024
Page 15
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document
only contains general descriptions and / or performance features which
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may
undergo modification in the course of further development of the
products. The requested performance features are binding only when
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
All product designations trademarks or products of Siemens Energy
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.