 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 Page  1 of 3  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
 Erlangen , December 17, 2020   
Siemens Energy ’s digital  transmission 
technology enables  push for wind 
energy in Vietnam  
• Digital ly enhanced substation  assets  will connect two wind farms 
to the grid  
• Project is part of the country’s plan  to foster integration of 
renewable energ y 
 
Siemens Energy  has been awarded a contract  by Technology Resources 
Energy (TRE) to equip two onshore wind farms in Vietnam with 
Sens products, digital ly enhanced transmission equipment.  The two wind 
farms IaPet -Dak Doa 1 and IaPet -Dak Doa 2 are both  located in the Dak Doa 
district of Gia Lai province in the country’s central highlands  and will have 
a capacity of 100 megawatts each.  The wind farms  are part of Vietnam’s 
ongoing Power Development Master Plan  to further push the integration 
of renewable energy sources and to enhance the power supply.  
 
“The Dak Doa wind farm project is another excellent project demonstrating 
how digitalization is providing the technical basis for the most efficient use 
of rene wable energy sources,” says Beatrix Natter, Executive Vice President 
Transmission at Siemens Energy. “ With the order of our Sensproducts TRE 
chose a future -proof transmission system and I am proud that our digital 
portfolio will play a distinct role in fos tering the integration of wind energy 
in Vietnam.”   
 
Siemens Energy will equip the substation connecting  the wind farm with 
the national grid. Amongst other substation assets, the company  will 
deliver digital ly enhanced transmission products  with advanced 
intelligence  from the company’s Sensproducts portfolio , including Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Christina Huemmer  
Phone:  
+49 152 07158923  
E-mail: 
Christina.Huemmer@siem
ens-energy.com  
 
 
 
  
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 Page  2 of 3  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
 connective  circuit - breaker s, surge arresters  and power transformers . 
Equipped as Sensformer Advanced units  the transformers  come with a 
digital twin , a synchronized thermo -replication of the physical asset, 
that will allow the operator to manage temporary overloads without 
compromising on lifetime.  
 
“Once completed, the IaPet  Dak Doa substation  will be operated with two  
transformer banks of  900MVA capacity each  and be come the key to both 
north and south grid system ,” said Duong Quynh Hoa , CEO of TRE.  
“Located right next to the existing Pleiku 2 substation which is  also being 
upgraded , the total capacity of both combined  substations will make this 
the biggest connection  point in terms of capacity throughout Vietnam. For 
that reason, we have opened the bid to select the best solutions and  are 
very grateful to award the contract to Siemens Energy. We hope that 
Siemens Energy’s consistent quality and excellent services shal l bring 
success to the long -term operation of our wind farm  and the 500-kilovolt 
substation ,” she added.  
 
Steve Loo, Head of Transmission Products and Systems Asia Pacific Hub at 
Siemens Energy,  said:  “This project will certainly create more buzz 
surrounding our digital solutions and increase our visibility for the wind 
market.  The renewables sector will also help to accelerate our efforts 
towards decarbonization  and clean energy .” 
 
The scope of supply of connective transmission eq uipment includes  three 
units of 500 kV and two units of 220  kV power  transformers , three 500  kV 
and six 200  kV circuit -breaker s with advanced trending as well as 15 surge 
arrester s rated at 500 kV . All these  assets  will be  equipped with smart IOT 
(Internet of Things ) technology and sensors to measure the most 
important operating parameters . The operator will be able to check the 
status of the substation assets via online applications in real time to 
increase efficiency and availability of  operation s. Additionally, the 
company will deliver conventional disconnectors, instrument 
transformers  and current limiting reactor s. 
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 Page  3 of 3  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
 The energization of the substation is scheduled for August  2021. At the 
IaPet -Dak Doa one and IaPet -Dak Doa  two wind farms a total of 44 wind 
turbines will be installed. They are expected to generate a gross energy of 
about 532,622 megawatt hours annually.   
 
This press release is available at  
https://bit.ly/3noFgSd  
For further information on Siemens Energy Sensproducts , please see  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -
trans mission/transmission -products/sensproducts.html  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The 
company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus 
supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, 
solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – 
from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional 
and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants 
operated with hydro gen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent 
of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market 
leader for renewable energie s. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated 
worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more 
than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of 
around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2 020.  
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
 
 
 
   