 
 
 Page  1 of 3  Vietnam, October 22, 2020  
Successful commissioning of Power 
Substat ion for Solar Power Plant in 
Vietnam  
• A 500kV power substation  as part of  the 450MW solar power  plant  has 
been successfully energized in Ninh Thuan province, Vietnam  
• The commissioning was a remarkable feat delivered under a very tight 
timeline amidst CoVid-19 restrictions and quarantine  
• The developing province’ s power transmission system and surrounding 
areas will now benefit from this infrastructure to help shore up 
abundant renewable energy projects  
 In Thuan Nam district of Ninh Thuan  province, Vietnam, households and 
businesses now receive a boost in power transmission following the successful commissioning and ene rgization  of a 500kV power substation . The substation 
consists of 500kV power transformers, circuit breaker s, instrument t ransformer s, 
coils and distribution transformer s - all supplied by Siemens Energy . The power 
transformers are the Sensformer® units , which, f itted with connectivity and 
intelligence , offer access to real -time digital data for optimized operation.  
 
This com missioning had proven to be a remarkable feat by the local Siemens 
Energy project team having accomplished it within an extremely tight timeline 
in order to meet the Feed- in-Tariff (FiT) deadline, as well as under extraordinary 
circumstances of the prevail ing COVID -19 situation. Remote approaches had to 
be deployed via video conferencing, while a technical specialist was
 also 
mobilized to Vietnam to provide support.  
The project was urgently needed for the grid development in Ninh Thuan 
province and its surr ounding areas, as the transformer banks can transmit  
enough energy  to electrify two provinces and cities. The substation will crucially 
support electricity generated by a 450MW solar power plant located nearby in Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Lim Chia Ying  
Phone:  
+6016 333 2768  
E-mail: chia-
ying.lim@siemens.com    
 
Pham Vu Thai Ha  
Phone:  
+84 (24) 35776688/504  
E-mail: pham -vu-
thai.ha@siemens.com   
 
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1
80333 Munich
Germany
Page  2 of 3 Press r elease 
Quan The Villag e of t he m entioned T huan Na m district, b uilt by the cu stome r, 
Trung Nam Group.  
Mr. Nguyen Tam Tien, CEO of Trung Nam Group, comments on the great efforts 
that led to the completion and commissioning of the project: “This is an 
important milestone because we are unlocking more than 1 billion kWh of 
potential energy from renewable sources alone. In addition, this project 
helps to integrate power from the South Central Coastal grid, and also from 
abundant renewable energy sources in Ninh Thuan and Binh Thuan 
provinces. It helps to efficiently use surplus energy generated from 
existing renewable power plants, which could otherwise be damaging and 
substantially costly for the plant owners.  
He continues: “Thanks to this project’ s success, we are looking forwar d to 
building more plants in future that will contribute to reinforcing Vietnam’ s 
energy security and create positive impact on  our national econom y. This is in 
line with the vision in the Resolution 55 of the Vietnam Communist Party 
Politburo. I’ d like to  express my appreciation  for the whole team and Siemens 
Energy for  being a trusted and reliable partner in supporting the development 
of our renewable power sources and power transmission infrastructure, and for 
this timely delivery that exceeded the expec tations.”   
Head of Transmission Products and Systems Asia Pacific Hub, M r. Steve Loo 
explained what makes this project even more outstanding is having to overcome 
many challenges that w ere thrown upon the team. “The health and safety of our 
employees are of utmost importance for us. Thus, the team had to operate 
under special precautions to protect everybody against COVID -19. We are 
thankful that everything worked out well .” 
“I would like to express my high appreciation for the local Vietnam team and all 
factories involved who have worked tremendously hard to ensur e the project’ s 
success. We are extremely proud of the team ’s achievement that will certainly 
augur well for future collaborations with the custome r,” he said.  
This press release is available a t https://bit.ly/35OVUD1  
Press release 
Page  3 of 3 For further information on the Siemens Energy spin -off, please see 
www.siemens-energy.com/investorrelations   
Fo
llow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’ s leading energy technology companies. The company works 
with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition 
to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and servic es, Siemens 
Energy covers  almost  the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to 
storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and 
transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority 
stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a 
global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated 
worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 91,000 
people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €29 billion in 
fiscal year 2019. www.siemens -energy.com
. 
 Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann
 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1
80333 Munich
Germany