Power  
transformers
Machine and network transformers from  
30 to over 1,300 MVA
 siemens-energy.com/transformer
Quality and performance – for us,  
a tradition and a matter of principle
Siemens Energy power transformerA basic requirement for all power transformers is to deliver 
power to the consumer efficiently and  reliably. Every single 
transformer is unique, designed according to individual fac-
tors such as voltage, power rating, climate, network topog-
raphy, noise level, and many other criteria. At Siemens 
Energy we translate your individual requirements into the 
very highest quality, and our power transformers are well 
known for oper-ating reliably over many years.
Our quality guarantees reliability
Our high quality standards are known and acknowledged 
internationally. All Siemens Energy transformer 
manufacturing plants worldwide work with consistently 
certified quality management systems, such as DIN ISO 
9001:2008, among others. Above all, our high standard of 
quality is based on more than a century of experience in this 
field, as well as continual research and development work.You can rely on performance ‒ 
anytime and anywhere
For our customers, power transformers are a core component 
of their power transmission system. For us, they are a 
passion. For more than 100 years, we’ve partnered with 
well-known power supply and industrial companies around the world. Our global manufacturing network allows us to optimally combine the advantages of a large global 
group with a regional presence. Wherever you are, we 
are close by to assist you with our expertise acquired over 
many years. We’re ready to partner with you from the first steps of transformer planning, design, and production to transport and commissioning. Naturally, we continue to support you and service your transformer after delivery and commissioning. With our Transformer Lifecycle Management, we can also precisely fulfill special customer wishes and play a major role in increasing the service life of transformers.
 2
The first choice every time
The chief applications for power transformers are as 
machine and network transformers. Equipped with on-load or deenergized tap changers or a combination of both, they achieve a constant output voltage. We manufacture power transformers according to their intended application and the customer’s requirements in single-phase as well as three-phase versions as multi-winding transformers or autotransformers – with power ratings of up to 1,300 MVA and for voltages of up to the highest insulation class of 800 kV. They can also be designed to be fully or partially transportable. And of course we manufacture our transformers according to the specifications of IEC 60076 and other international and national standards such as ANSI/IEEE and IEC.
Delivery of a transformer
“We find the Siemens Energy service excellent.” 
Power supply company, United Arab Emirates
“An expert, reliable, and trustworthy business partner.” 
Power supply company, Austria
“Our contacts at Siemens Energy Transformers are very 
knowledgeable and listen to our needs and requests. They 
evaluate them swiftly and try to answer our inquiries as 
quickly as possible.”
Customer in the metal industry, Brazil
“I’m happy to recommend Siemens Energy transformers to 
my business partners.” 
Power utility specializing in hydropower, Canada
“Their experts work highly professionally. Siemens  Energy 
transformers are highly regarded.”   
Consulting company, China
Power transformer with ester insulation and heat exchanging 
device in the testfield
Technical progress is our maxim 
Every one of our transformers combines decades of 
experience and our conviction that no matter how good 
and well established a product is, there is always room for 
further improvement. To this end, we not only develop and 
produce transformers according to customers’ requirements, 
but we have a policy aimed  specifically at driving innovation 
forward. Not so long ago, extra-quiet transformers, eco-
friendly liquid dielectrics, and  DC compensation solutions 
were still regarded as a vision for the future – but thanks 
to our intensive research and development work in close 
cooperation with our customers, they are now part of our 
standard delivery range.international and national standards 
such as ANSI/IEEE and IEC.
What our customers say
“We know our contacts at Siemens  Energy personally and 
they are always on hand to help us, even with complex 
matters. That’s the way a good customer relationship should 
work.”  
Power utility, USAPower transformer with sound house
 3
A global engineering network
This brochure gives you an overview of the internationally 
standard steps in the manufacturing of our power transform -
ers.
The unique organization of our global production network 
offers our customers clear advantages:
•Prompt preparation of bids
•Optimized, consistent end-to-end project management
•Noticeably shorter production and delivery times
•Very high delivery reliability
•Flexibility and reliability thanks to backup factories
•Fast, standardized documentation
•Just-in-time deliveryWe manufacture Siemens Energy power transformers in a 
total of 13 transformer factories on four continents.
Naturally, each one of these production plants has a different
focus in terms of  research and development. Our network of 
factories ensures that our customers worldwide profit from
the special skills  and solutions of all individual locations. Our 
production plant concept makes sure that the same extensive 
know-how and the same technology and quality are available 
to our custom-ers around the world, regardless of location. 
Harmonized de-sign, globally  standardized design
guidelines, and standard  IT programs for all plants ensure
that our customers always receive the best possible product, 
no matter which Siemens Energy factory they purchase it 
from. A modular principle makes it possible to implement
customers’ specific requirements.
Power transformer factories
1.Nuremberg
2.Weiz
3.Zagreb
4.Linz
5.Trento
6.Dresden
7.Jundiaí
8.Tenjo
9.Guanajuato
  1
24
35
7891012
116
 41310.
 Guangzhou
11. Wuhan
12. Jinan
13. Charlotte *
*under construction
The making of a transformer
The core 
The iron core forms the central element of every Siemens  
Energy transformer. High-grade, cold-rolled and laser treated 
metal sheets with thicknesses of 0.3 mm or less are 
precision-cut with computer-controlled machines, to ensure 
compliance with even the smallest tolerances. The individual 
sheets are then assembled into cores manually using the 
“step-lap” tech- nique. In this way we achieve an especially 
good flux distri -bution at the joints, resulting in exceptionally 
low losses and minimal no-load noise. When the transformer 
core is ready, a hydraulic platform moves it into the vertical 
installation position in which the windings are assembled.
The windings  
Transformer windings are subject to continuously high 
electrical and mechanical loads. Disk and cylindrical coils with transposed conductors of copper wire guarantee high mechanical strength here and long operational reliability.
Disk coils for high voltages consist of continuously wound 
coils that are divided by radial and axial channels for oil cooling. They are manufactured on vertical and horizontal winding lathes. Thanks to the continuous winding of the disk coils, the number of soldering points is reduced to a minimum. Precise control systems ensure constant contact pressure and winding tension while experienced coil winders monitor every working step. 
Multi-layer windings for low voltages consist of concentrically 
superimposed cylindrical coils separated by axial oil ducts.
After winding, the coils are pressed, dried under constant 
pressure, impregnated with oil, measured exactly, and geometrically adjusted if required.
Precision from the very first step: Laying the core
Windings made of transposed conductors reduce additional 
losses to a minimum
Voltage control 
The grid and generator voltage can vary significantly from 
the rated value as a result of external influences. Siemens 
Energy transformers therefore provide facility for adapting 
the volt-age to the grid conditions. It can either be changed  
in the deenergized state by means of a deenergized tap 
changer or adjusted in steps under load using on-load tap 
changers. On-load tap changers and optionally deenergized 
tap changers are fitted with a motorized drive and can be 
controlled either locally or remotely.
On-load and deenergized tap changers ensure that the out -
put voltage remains constant
 5
The tank 
High-grade, quality-assured tanks define the appearance of 
our transformers. This protective shell accommodates the 
core-and-winding assembly and the insulating oil. Together 
these often weigh several hundred tons. The tank should therefore not add too much extra weight, but at the same time it has to be structurally sound and leak-proof, and 
must withstand mechanical stresses. First-class corrosion 
protection is therefore a basic requirement for long tank life.
Transport of a transformer tank
Cooling 
The necessity of not exceeding the generally permissible 
maximum heating and of avoiding “hot spots” in the trans-former require the cooling system to be dimensioned accord-ingly. Various methods of cooling can be used depending on the individual service conditions to guarantee reliable and problem-free operation over many years. The most note-worthy are the ONAN, ONAF, OFAF, and ODAF oil-air cooling and OFWF and ODWF oil-water cooling systems. The radiator banks and oil-air and oil-water coolers can be attached to the transformer or installed separately.
Cooling equipment ensures efficient heat dissipationFinal assembly 
The core-and-coil assembly of the transformer is made up 
of core, windings, tap switches, and connecting cables. 
Particular emphasis is placed on the mechanical stability of 
the windings. Axial shear forces are minimized by a joint press ring for all windings on a core limb, since this fixes the geometrical position of the individual windings. The core-
and-coil assembly is then dried in a vapor-phase system under 
vacuum at 130°C. After drying, all bolted connections on the 
core-and-coil assembly, which is still at a temperature of over 100°C are tested and secured, and the assembly is installed in 
the tank as quickly as possible. For increased life expectancy, 
the transformer is filled with insulating oil without delay so that the insulating parts absorb no moisture from the ambient air.
Once the attachments such as motor drive, control cabinets, 
bushings, and monitoring equipment are installed, the power transformer spends a certain time in the unenergized state, and is then ready for final testing and inspection. 
Manual work from the first step to final assembly
 6
Final inspection and testing 
Only after final inspection and testing is successfully complet-
ed do we dispatch a transformer to the customer. Each of our 
factories has a high-voltage test bay for this purpose in which 
a wide range of tests is carried out, from voltage tests – in-cluding lightning impulse voltage with-stand tests – and tem-perature-rise tests, to special tests  for insulation resistance, 
harmonics, or noise level. Short-circuit tests are performed in 
internationally recognized and approved institutes.
These comprehensive tests are a major reason why our power 
transformers are among the most reliable in the world, and 
why customers around the world trust our quality – which has been proven in every single case.
For testing, the transformer is completely set up and 
connected
Transformer service  
Even after the transformer has left the factory, customers 
can still rely on the support of our experts. We handle the 
transport and gladly carry out installation and commissioning 
on request.
We also offer our customers many different services to ensure 
reliable, fault-free operation throughout the entire lifecycle 
of our transformers. Our professionals from the Transformer 
Academy provide training courses on every aspect of our transformers, while our Transformer Life cycle Management 
takes care of all problems and questions that arise during 
operation, from oil analysis and fault diagnosis, online monitoring, maintenance, and repair to fast and reliable procurement of spares, as well as repairs and retrofits.
Transformer in the extra-high voltage test hall
Integrated Condition Monitoring System
 7
Always keeping an eye on overall costs
Transformers are high-value capital goods that have to pay 
back their cost over decades. That’s why it is advisable not to make the acquisition costs the sole determining factor when 
purchasing a transformer, but also to always include the 
operating costs in the equation. Downtimes, fires, and explo-
sions, but also failure to take perfectly plannable details into account, can quickly make an ostensibly low-cost transformer an expensive investment. So these factors must always be 
calculated as part of acquisition and operating costs before 
making a purchase decision.
Daily savings with efficient trans -
formers 
The question of efficiency has top priority in the calculation 
and design of our transformers. Ultimately, low losses mean real savings for our customers, and they also help protect the environment. That’s why efficiencies of over 99 percent are standard for our transformers today. At  the same time, more efficient transformers are quieter, which also benefits people and the environment. And if they need to be extra quiet in a particular case, you can rely on our engineers’ unique noise-minimizing solutions.    Our “whisper transformers” do not operate with purely passive attenuation, but actively rem-edy the root cause of the characteristic transformer hum.Environmentally friendly solutions 
Thanks to our innovations and research in all aspects of alter-
native liquid dielectrics, we can offer transformers for deploy -
ment in locations with particularly high safety requirements, 
such as nature reserves, groundwater protection areas, or 
at sea. We have many years of experience with mineral oil 
alternatives in power transformers, as well as with silicone 
oils and also with liquid dielectrics made from synthetic and 
natural esters.
Minimized risk of failure 
An important major requirement in transformer construction 
is keeping the risk of failure as low as possible. Unscheduled 
disconnection of a transformer from the grid causes high 
costs. That’s why we ensure maximum reliability of all our 
products in everyday operation. There are good reasons why 
Siemens Energy transformers are known for maximum short-
circuit strength, overload capability, high-temperature 
operation, reliable start-up after a power outage, and low 
maintenance costs.
700
600500
400300
200
100
0
-100
-200-300-400
0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50 5.00Cost Amortization process
TimeReturn of investmentCost savings 
through lower operational costs
Additional costs for a loss-optimized transformerA. Low-cost transformer
PO No load losses 200.01 kW
PK Load losses 904.70 kW
Cp Purchase price 2,679,337 $
TCOTotal cost of owning 
and operating2,425,211 $/ yearB. Low-optimized transformer
PO No load losses 217.49 kW
PK Load losses 763.3 kW
Cp Purchase price 9,995,698 $
TCOTotal cost of owning 
and operating2,256,215 $/ year
 8
Detailed calculation parameter
Depreciation period n - 30 years
Interest rate p - 12 %
Energy charge Ce - 0.25 $/kWh
Demand charge Cd - 350 $/kWh
Equivalent annual load factor a - 0.8 -
Depreciation factor r r = p*q^n/(q^n-1) 12.41 -
Interest factor q q = p/100+1 1.12 -
Purchase price Cp $/
Capital Cost Cc Cc = Cp*r/100 $/year
Cost of no- load loss CPO CP0 = Ce*8760h/year*P0
Cost of no- load loss CPK CPK = Ce*8760h/year*PK*α
Cost resulting from demand charge CD CD = Cd (P0+Pk) 650  mmThe evaluation of a transformer by its costs of ownership and 
operation depends on the purchase price and the total op-erating costs (TOC=Cc+CP0+CPK +CD). A comparison of two 
transformer designs is presented here, showing that theenergy saving of the optimized distribution transformer of 
$168,996 per year pays for the increased purchase price of $276,361 in less than 2 years.
 9
References
Project  
Kupfer zell
Customer 
Transn etBW
Destination
German y
Year of market entry2019Highlight
•First transformer with natural ester with a rating of 400
MVA/420 kV
•Improved cold start due to lower pour point at -30° C
Product specification
•Total weight: 460 tons
•Insulation liquid: Midel eN 1204 Natural Ester
•Cooling type: KDAN/KNAN
Transformer
420 kV/ 400 MVA Power Transformer
Project  
Consolidated Edison 
New York
Customer 
Consolidate d Edison 
New York
Destination
USA
Year of market entry
2020
Project  
First Sensformer 
Advanced 
Customer 
Allgäu Überlandwerke 
Destination
Germany
Year of market entry
2021
Project  
Highbury
Customer
National Grid UK 
Destination
UK
Year of market entry
2015
Highlight
•Plug-in bushings and cable connections
•Transport oil filled
•Full overload conditions as per ConEd specification
e.g., 169%, 1 hour, @30°C ambient
Product specification
•LV wit h alternative plug-in cable connections to grid
OLTC and DETC for voltage regulation and
switching between operating voltages
•Noise level 70 dB(A) no-load
•KDAF – Ester Fluid – Synthetic Ester – MIDEL® 7131
•Hybrid insulation using NOMEX® and TUP
Highlight
•New virtual sensors created by the thermal Digital Twin
model:
•Virtual sensor top oil temperature and winding
temperature HV/LV (hot spot)
•Additional real sensors and data usually not specified bythe customer i.e.
Product specification
•Ambient temperature (2 sensors on both sides of the Tx)
•Winding current LV
•Oil temperature cooler inlet/outlet on both sides (HV/LV)
•Cooling method ONAN/ONAF
•KDAF – Ester Fluid – Synthetic Ester – MIDEL® 7131
•Hybrid insulation using NOMEX® and TUP
Highlight
•First ever 400 kV Ester filled MIDEL ® 7131 transformer
Product specification
•Heat recovery system for school and residential buildings
•Ultra low noise cooler (30 db(A) @ 10m)
•240 MVA, three-phase AUT
•400/132/13 kVTransformer
100 MV A, single-phase 60 Hz 
Resilience transformer
Transformer
31,5/40  MVA, 112/20 kV 
Power Transformer
Transformer
300 MVA three-phase
Autotransformer
 10
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transmission
Freyeslebenstr. 1
91058 Erlangen
Germany
siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo
modification in the course of further development of the products. The
requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly 
agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be 
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes 
could violate the rights of the owners.For the U.S. Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Transmission  
4601 Six Forks Road  
Raleigh, NC 27609  
USA