                                                                                                                                            © 202 5 Siemens Energy  
Introduction  
Understanding the impact of DC bias on transformers  
DC bias significantly increases noise and loss levels in trans-
formers. This DC can originate from power electronics in the 
grid, HVDC interconnections, renewable power generation, 
or small direct currents caused by geomagnetic effects. Due 
to the magnetic properties of transformer cores, even a 
small DC bias can  lead to substantial consequences, includ-
ing increased reactive power current requirements and 
greater losses.  
 
For example, a mere few hundred milliamperes of DC can 
result in a notable increase in noise and no -load losses. A DC 
level of 500 mA may cause an increase of 13 dB(A) com-
pared to reference noise levels in a test field without DC. The 
human ear perceives a  10 dB increase as a doubling of the 
noise level. Additionally, DC loading can lead to an increase 
of up to 50 percent in no -load losses.  
 
Therefore, it is essential for transformer owners, operators, 
and service personnel to detect DC bias in their transform-
ers. The Direct Current Detector (DCD) app provides an ini-
tial indication of whether a transformer is affected by DC 
bias.  
 
In case  a transformer consistently shows DC bias, we 
strongly recommend contacting our Siemens Energy Trans-
mission Service experts for a comprehensive diagnosis and 
tailored service recommendations.  (Link to contact form .)  
 
Features   
 
The Direct Current Detector (DCC) is designed to empower 
transformer owners and operators with essential tools for early detection of DC bias. By providing a quick and easy in-
itial assessment, the DCC enables users to identify poten-
tial issues before they escalate, ensuring the reliability and 
efficiency of transformer operations.  
• Easy to use for any person at side  
• Giving a first actual indication of DC in  the asset  
• Freely available for Android and IOS smartphones  
 
How to perform a DCD  
measurement  
The easy -to-use app transforms any smartphone into a DC 
detection device and can be used by any person at the site, 
either with or without internet connection.  Below are the 
steps for performing a DCD measurement, presented with 
accompanying screenshots for clarity.  
 
1. Install  the DCD app  
To begin the DCD measurement,  access  the Direct Current 
Detector (DCD) app by opening the  link.(see also QR-code ) 
in your smartphone browser . Once the app is open in your 
browser, tap  or  button and the “ Add to Home 
Screen ” button   (the exact word-
ing may  vary depending on your browser).  This will save the 
DCD app to your home screen for easy access,  
allowing you to launch it directly from   
your mobile device.     
 
 
 
Direct Current  
Detector  
Detecting DC bias in transformer  
 
 
siemens -energy.com/gt -service  

                                                                                                                                            © 202 5 Siemens Energy  2. Read and confirm the license agreement  
Before proceeding, please review the “End User License 
Agreement for Free of Charge Mobile Applications” and the 
“Additional Conditions for Free of Charge Apps.” These doc-
uments outline the terms and conditions associated with the 
use of the DCD app. Kindly confirm that you have read and 
understood the agreement before continuing.  
3. Read the safety manual before DCD measurement  
To ensure safe operation during the DCD measurement, 
please click on the Hamburger menu ( ☰) and select “Safety. ” 
Please read the Safety Disclaimer carefully before approach-
ing a transformer for DC measurement. Understanding 
these safety guidelines is crucial for conducting the meas-
urement safely and effectively.  
4. Start DCD measurement  
To begin your DCD measurement, click on “Start Your First 
Measurement.” You will be prompted to select or enter the 
following details: substation name, serial number, and 
transformer name/label.  
Next, select the microphone option, and initiate the sound 
measurement by tapping on the microphone icon.  
Hint:  For a high -quality initial assessment of DC effects, we 
recommend conducting three measurements of 60 seconds 
each. During the 60 -second recording phase, walk around 
the transformer while keeping your smartphone at a 
distance of 30 to 100 cm from the tran sformer.  
To ensure accurate results, avoid ambient noise during the 
recording, as it can negatively impact the DC assessment. 
The app will indicate recording quality using a traffic light 
system, and if necessary, it will provide further 
recommendations for improving sound quality.  
5. Review measurement results  
While the recording is in progress, the app will display the 
following information:  
• Hz: This indicates the sound frequency detected 
during the recording, representing the Hertz of the 
transmission grid.  
• Audio Signal:  This provides an indication of sound 
quality , categorized as “Poor,” “Fair,” or “Good.”  
• DC Detected/Not Detected:  This shows the result 
of the DC assessment, indicating whether Direct 
Current has been detected.  
 
Once the recording is complete, the app will process the au-
dio file. A clear color signal will indicate the status of DC bias 
detection:  
• Green :  Everything is okay; no DC bias detected.  
• Yellow : An uncertain signal; further investigation 
may be needed.  
• Red:     DC bias is detected; immediate attention is 
required.  
 6. Follow up if necessary  
If the app indicates the presence of DC bias, we recommend 
contacting Siemens Energy Transmission Service experts for 
a thorough diagnosis and actionable service 
recommendations.  (Link to contact form .) 
 
                          
 
 
                
  
 
                      
1 3 
4 
4 5  
 4 
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page  3 
 
Published by © 2025 Siemens Energy  
Grid Technologies Service  
Humboldtstr. 64  
90459 Nuremberg, Germany  
Customer Support Center  
Phone: +49 911 6505 6505  
E-Mail: support@siemens -energy.com  
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens -energy.com/gt -service  
“Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descrip-
tions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which 
may undergo modification in the course of further deve lopment of the products. The requested perfor-
mance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.”  
   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 