Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , May 30 , 2022  
From a bird’s -eye view: multi-sensor system 
and artificial intelligence ensure secure 
power supply  
• Inspection of approximately 4,000 km of high -voltage  power  lines  
• Artificial intelligence for automated condition detection  
• CO 2 emissions decreased  by reducing helicopter flights  
• Digital twin for accelerati ng digital grid expansion planning  
 
The German grid operators  Schleswig Holstein Netz AG and Bayernwerk Netz GmbH h ave 
commissioned Siemens Energy to inspect almost 4,000 kilometers of high -voltage overhead lines . 
The inspection will be conducted by a helicopter equipped with a high -tech multi -sensor system 
using  the "SIEAERO" service concept. Developed by Siemens Energy, the system collects all the 
necessary data during the flight, which  can later be evaluated with the help of artificial intelligence 
and analyzed  by other  software tools. In the near future, this  kind of holistic inspection  of overhead 
power lines can also be performed  with large drones.  
 
A single helicopter flight feeds artificial intelligence  
For the inspection, Siemens Energy attaches SIEAERO's  multi -sensor system to the underside of a 
helicopter. Equipped with 19 cameras and state -of-the-art 3D laser scanning sensors, it captures all 
relevant  inspection data in a single flight over the pipeline , resulting in up to 12,000 images and 
detailed 3D data per kilometer of pipeline. The SIEAERO ’s software, which uses  artificial intelligence, 
can evaluate the images in just a few hours , whereas a  human would need a few days. The artificial 
intelligence  was previously trained with over two million images of European and North American 
grids  to automatically detect fault s in the images. This allows potential risks  like trees growing too 
close to the line  to be detected earlier. During the flights, the sur face temperature of the individual 
components  is also measured, among other things. The digital data obtained provides a  precise  and 
detailed overview of the condition of the operating equipment , and it can be combined with 
existing data from the grid for other  evaluations . Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
"The use of artificial intelligence is an important advance in the inspection of power lines. The high 
data quality makes us more precise  and more cost -efficient , and it also allows us to conduct  the 
inspection more safely. What's more, with conventional measurement and inspection techniques, 
the lines would have to be flown over several times to get the same result s. Each flight saved over 
the distance of 4,000 kilometers saves 74 tons of CO 2 emissions. This is another way that we’re 
making an important contribution to the environment,  while supporting our customers to maximize 
the reliability of the transmission grids ," says Milena Ramos Subires, Vice President Transmission 
Service at Siemens Energy.   
 
From data mountain to digital twin  
Every  kilometer of line flown generates 300 gigabytes of data . The SIEAERO  system uses this data to 
create a digital twin, a highly accurate image of the network infrastructure  being inspected , 
including poles, lines, terrain , and vegetation. With the digital twin, network operators can simulate 
extreme events  like a tree falling on a line and causing it to fail and take the appropriate preventive 
measures. To guarantee a continuous power supply during  the energy transition, the power grids 
need to be expanded. With comprehensive 3D models of the grid, the necessary expansion and 
modification  measures can be planned and implemented more quickly.  
 
Drone instead of helicopter?  
In the future, drones could once again significantly simplify and impr ove the inspection of  power 
lines . Siemens Energy has already successfully performed  several test flights with a drone equipped 
with the SIEAERO  system. Using a  drone has a number of  advantages: It’s more environmentally 
friendly and quieter than a helicop ter, and critical locations could be approached in a more targeted 
manner. Currently, however, most countries still prohibit the use of unmanned aerial vehicles 
beyond the visual range. As soon as the legal situation permits  in these countries , Siemens Ene rgy 
will also offer SIEAERO  as a drone service.  
 
Further information on the transmission network:  
Roughly 1.8 million kilometers of power lines run like veins through the German energy 
infrastructure, ensuring that electricity reaches every socket. The high -voltage lines in the 
transmission grid are especially  importan t: They ensure that large amounts of elect ricity can first be 
transported quickly over long distances to conurbations , and then  the electricity can be distributed 
to consumers via the lower -voltage networks. Regular checks by grid operators of the high -voltage 
lines  – which in Germany extend over some 37,000 kilometers  – are essential to ensur ing an 
uninterrupted supply of electricity. At the same time, the growing share of renewable energies is 
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
putting a strain on the grid: A total of more than 7,500 kilometers in the German transmission grid 
will need to be optimized, reinforced , or newly built in the next few years.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Christina Huemmer  
Phone:  + 49 152 07158923  
E-mail: Christina.Huemmer@siemens -energy.com   
 
This press release is available at  
www.siemens -energy.com/press   
For f urther informa tion on SIEAERO , please see  
SIEAERO | Services for power transmission  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supportin g the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and re newable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Sieme ns 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €28.5  billion in fiscal year 2021 . 
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 