AROUND THE INDUSTRY, AROUND THE WORLD
 TAPPI | PIMA
SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2022
• Kotkamills’ PM1 Rebuild 
• Reliable Wet End Control 
• ‘Carbon Will Be A Lightning Rod’
• Celebrating 10 Years of TAPPISAFE 
• Research Abstracts from TAPPI Journal
ALSO: 
Suzano Sets  
the Standard for 
Sustainable Pulping
14 Paper360º   SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2022  www.tappi.orgSince 2000, the global pulp and 
paper industry has made much progress decar -
bonizing its operations to mitigate climate 
change. According to the International Energy 
Agency (IEA), “… the sector has experienced 
a decoupling of energy use from production 
thanks to energy efficiency improvements 
and process integration measures.” 
In fact, between 2000 and 2017, the IEA 
estimates that, while global paper and 
paperboard output increased by more than 
25 percent, energy use rose by less than five 
percent. That positive trend is expected to 
have continued, if not widened, since the data 
was reported.Nonetheless, even more reductions in energy 
use and emissions are needed to offset the 
growth in pulp and paper production expected 
in decades to come. Greater energy efficiency, 
alternative fuel sources, and carbon capture are 
three top ways to achieve these goals.
TOWARD AN EVEN GREENER INDUSTRY
One producer that aims to set the pace 
for both efficiency and green sustainability 
is Suzano, headquartered in Brazil, with 11 
pulp mills and 10.9 million tons of current 
output a year. The company, which exports 
to more than 100 nations, also produces 1.4 
million tpy of paper.Suzano’s new, US$2.8 billion pulp plant—
known as the Cerrado Project—is being built 
in Brazil’s municipality of Ribas do Rio Pardo 
in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul. It will be the 
world’s largest single eucalyptus pulp produc -
tion mill, capable of producing the industry’s 
lowest-cost hardwood pulp with the least envi -
ronmental impact.
When it is fully operating, the plant will 
have a capacity of 2.55 million tpy of hardwood 
pulp, boosting its annual output by more than 
20 percent. Nearly 21 percent of the Cerrado 
Project’s construction is complete, with produc -
tion expected to start in the latter part of 2024. 
So far, the project has consumed more than 6.5 
million person-hours without any accidents. 
Suzano reports that construction is progressing 
on time and on budget.
SURPLUS FOSSIL-FREE ENERGY:  
A NEW REVENUE SOURCE
The giant plant will have approximately 
473 MW of onsite, fully renewable electrical 
Suzano Pulp Plant to 
Set World Standard for 
Efficiency, Sustainability 
World’s largest eucalyptus pulp production line will generate 
fossil-free power from production waste, including 180 MW of 
surplus power to sell into Brazil’s national grid.
TOBIAS PANSEtrendspotting  | PULPING & SUSTAINABILITY
PHOTOS COURTESY OF SUZANO
ABOVE: Construction development at Cerrado Project.
LEFT: A 3D rendering of the mill project site.
Paper360º   SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2022 15power-generating capacity without using fos -
sil fuels. Instead, production pulp waste will 
fuel three massive industrial steam turbine 
packages provided by Siemens Energy. The 
plant is designed to not only dramatically 
reduce energy use and emissions but also 
create a revenue-producing energy surplus 
averaging 180 MW a year that will feed into 
the nation’s grid. That’s enough electricity to 
power a city of 2.3 million people for a month.
In announcing the Cerrado Project, Walter 
Schalka, CEO of Suzano, described the proj-
ect’s anticipated sustainability and develop -
mental potential. “The new plant represents 
an important milestone in our long-term 
strategy,” he says. “Through our products, 
Suzano already reaches the lives of over two 
billion people globally, and we are commit -
ted to meeting the world’s growing demand 
for sustainable consumer products devel -
oped from renewable materials. This project 
will also make an important contribution to 
income generation and job creation in Brazil 
while increasing our carbon capture capacity 
through the expansion of our forest base.”
The new Suzano pulp plant took a com -
pletely fresh greenfield approach to maximize 
the efficiency and sustainability of its design. 
Suzano management and engineering teams 
looked outside the plant’s boundaries, as well 
as inside them, for quantum gains in key 
areas. For example:1   
Forestry.  The new pulp plant’s already-
planted, fast-growing eucalyptus hardwood 
forest expands the Suzano forestry base to 
about 600,000 hectares (1.5 million acres), 
which increases the company’s carbon cap -
ture capacity considerably. As a result, the 
new plant already has all the needed hard -
wood to start production in 2024, plus 90 per -
cent of what’s required for operations through 
2030. This combined Cerrado Project for -
estry base is part of the company’s 1.4 million hectares (3.2 million acres) of planted and 
certified forests plus 1.0 million hectares (2.5 
million acres) of forest lands set aside for con -
servation and, in some parts, restoration, as 
part of its zero-deforestation commitment.2
Mill production.  Inside the plant, a single 
pulp production line will take advantage of 
economies of scale, eliminating redundancies 
of having multiple production lines, thereby 
reducing maintenance operating expenses 
and capital tied up in spare part inventories. 
Once production starts, Suzano expects to 
have the lowest cash production cost across 
its entire asset base. This will help its price 
competitiveness in world markets and pro -
vide investors with attractive returns even 
during adverse market pricing scenarios.
Logistics.  As part of reducing emis -
sions, the Cerrado Project will have a low 
average structural forest radius of only 65 
kilometers—less than half of Suzano’s cur -
rent structural average supply radius of 156 
kilometers. This will enable the company to 
use half of the six-trailer trucks it normally 
would use, which results in a huge competi -
tiveness gain through 25 percent lower costs 
and 15 percent lower CO 2 emissions. Pulp will 
then be trucked about 230 kilometers (126 
miles) to a rail terminal from where it will be 
transported efficiently 1,000 kilometers (621 
miles) to Brazil’s Santos Port for shipment to 
overseas markets. 
In addition to the Cerrado Project’s effi -
ciency and sustainability goals, Suzano set 
out to achieve social and economic devel -
opment goals for the plant’s surrounding 
communities. These include 10,000 well-
paying direct and indirect jobs at the peak 
of work. Furthermore, once operating, 
the plant will employ about 3,000 people 
directly and indirectly in its industrial and 
forestry operations. With a population of 
only 25,000 people in the Ribas do Rio Pardo municipality, this number of permanent jobs 
will significantly impact the region’s eco -
nomic development.
CARBON CAPTURE:  
A NEW BUSINESS INITIATIVE
The Cerrado Project’s carbon capture 
capacity will also contribute to the company’s 
soon-to-launch carbon business. According 
to a recent investor presentation,3 Suzano has 
identified a potential pipeline of greenhouse 
gas (GHG) reduction projects that could save 
more than 30 million tons of CO 2 emissions 
and be traded for substantial carbon cred -
its. With a 2021 average carbon credit price 
of $4.73 per ton,4 the high-margin revenue 
potential for Suzano is significant. 
The company’s planted forests; restora -
tion and conservation of native forests; and a 
combination of energy-efficiency, renewable 
energy, and fuel conversion initiatives are all 
candidates to be included in its carbon busi -
ness. The first project has already been sub -
mitted for validation with Verra, the world’s 
primary registry for carbon credits.
SUSTAINABLE POWER GENERATION:  
A CLOSER LOOK
To understand how power generation at 
the new Suzano plant can provide the plant’s 
primary energy-efficiency and emissions-
reduction levers, it helps to know where in a 
typical pulp or paper plant that energy is used 
and how pinch points can occur. 
On average, 21 percent of production costs 
in pulp and paper come from fuel and elec -
tricity.5 This is not unusual for an industry 
that characteristically requires both heat 
for its processes and power for a myriad of 
pumps, blowers, and fans that pump water, 
remove fumes, or transport pulp and waste -
paper. Industrial electric motors run these 
elements, designed for decades of service. 
Steam turbines being manufactured for Suzano’s Cerrado Project.A cut-away schematic of the steam turbine system that the Cerrado project 
will use to provide power to the mill.
16 Paper360º   SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER 2022  www.tappi.orgOver their lifetimes, electrical energy 
accounts for 95 percent of these motors’ total 
costs (with capital costs accounting for only 
5 percent). Although the new Suzano plant’s 
remote location favored the decision to build 
its own onsite power generation, the plant still 
needed to build connections to the regional 
arm of Brazil’s grid to sell the 180 MW of 
excess power it will generate each year. 
Inside a typical pulp or paper plant, pumps 
consume an average of about 25 percent of 
the plant’s power, while compressed air and 
fans use around 16 percent and 13 percent, 
respectively.6 These assets are where the pinch 
points limiting energy efficiency in the indus -
try begin. They are connected to the way other 
assets and processes perform, from wasted 
energy use that could be used elsewhere to 
the calorific value of black liquor.
That’s why cross-disciplinary engineering 
teams involved in the project worked closely to 
prevent those pinch points from the beginning. 
They closely collaborated in thinking about 
the plant as an integrated whole, despite its 
vastness, with hundreds of interdependent 
systems spread across scores of hectares. The 
teams recognized that the failure or under -
performance of one asset can affect others. 
For example, if particles might fly up from 
a recovery boiler into superheated sections 
because of poor combustion, valuable steam 
can be wasted that blows soot instead being 
pushed into the turbine to drive it. 
Another example is what could occur if 
the steam entering the evaporator is super -
heated: It can damage the evaporator, pollute 
the condensate, and build up deposits in the 
boiler tubes and steam turbine—all causing 
a loss of heat transfer and power-generating 
efficiency. That loss can be surprisingly signifi -
cant. Studies by Siemens Energy have found 
that, for every micrometer of buildup, some 
250 kilowatts of energy can be lost.7
POWER GENERATION AT THE NEW 
SUZANO PLANT 
Three Siemens Energy SST-600 steam 
turbines, each equipped with two-pole, air-
cooled industrial-grade SGen5-100A-2P gen -
erators and SPPA-T3000 Control System, plus 
auxiliary systems and services, will provide 
power in the plant. They will turn the steam 
from the plant’s giant boilers that will burn 
waste from the pulp manufacturing process. 
Together, they will generate as much as 473 
MW of electrical energy, including the previ -
ously mentioned 180 MW of surplus energy that Suzano will sell by feeding it into Brazil’s 
national grid.
These steam turbine packages also include 
remote monitoring and management software 
that can potentially predict possible failures 
and technical faults before they happen. This 
way, technicians can decide if the issues are 
serious enough to warrant a partial or com -
plete shutdown or if the issues can be managed 
until a scheduled plant shutdown.
The remote monitoring and management 
system also checks equipment health trends 
and exceptions against its normal operating 
signatures to detect performance anomalies—
an increase in temperature or vibration outside 
of specified parameters, for example. Then, 
using a mathematical model based on the his -
tory of similar machines around the world, the 
software can provide the plant’s management 
and technicians with decision support that can 
help them avoid disrupting power generation.
Among other benefits, the predictive 
monitoring system will offer the Cerrado 
Project’s plant management the opportunity 
to postpone major maintenance intervals 
in the equipment from six to as much as 12 
years. This can help to save maintenance 
costs. Equipment shutdowns can be planned 
to coincide with a general plant shutdown, 
maximizing equipment availability and return 
on investment.
For the generated energy flow, the Siemens 
Energy scope also includes the installation of 
108 switchgears aimed at the energy distribu -
tion to the plant. This will be accompanied by an energy management system (EMS), as well 
as synchronism and load-shedding systems 
that will be responsible for the electrical supply 
to the main power plant process areas.
MODEL FOR A GREENER FUTURE
The massive Suzano Cerrado Project in 
Brazil provides a model for the entire pulp 
and paper industry on how foresight, plan -
ning, and engineering excellence can lead to 
a highly integrated approach to production 
that is cost-effective and sustainable in a rap -
idly decarbonizing world. For an animated 
flyover of the Suzano Cerrado Project, search 
“Projecto Cerrado” on YouTube. 
References:
1 All bullet notes from: 2021.11.05-Apresentação-
Projeto-Cerrado-ENG-VF.pdf
2 Suzano Q2 2022 earnings release, June 30, 2022: 
https://s1.q4cdn.com/987436133/files/doc_
downloads/2022/07/2T22/FactSheet-2T22-ENG.pdf
3 2022.06.28-Citi-14th-Annual-Brazil-Equity-
Conference_vfinal.pdf
4 https://www.ecosystemmarketplace.com/articles/
press-release-voluntary-carbon-markets-rocket-in-
2021-on-track-to-break-1b-for-first-time/ 
5 Stanley Dorasamy. Fiber industries on their way to 
decarbonization: finding the right energy system 
design. Siemens. July 2020. Page 4.
6 IBID.
7 IBID.
Tobias Panse is head of global operations indus -
trial steam turbines, Siemens Energy GmbH 
& Co. He leads global operations in Brazil, 
China, Czech, India, and Germany. Visit 
siemens-energy.com.A Powerful Nexus
Suzano’s Cerrado Project brings together several 
critical ideas at once in a facility specifically 
engineered to produce sustainable pulp and 
profitable bioenergy. Another place that brings 
these ideas together will be Providence, RI, 
Oct. 30 – Nov. 2, 2022, for the co-located 
TAPPI PEERS and IBBC Conferences. PEERS 
(Pulping, Environmental, Engineering, and 
Sustainability) offers CEOs, mill managers, 
superintendents, scientists, process engineers, 
and suppliers a program that targets key opera -
tional issues. IBBC (International Bioenergy 
and Bioproducts Conference) delivers a compre -
hensive technical program focused on critical 
issues associated with biomass. Attend both 
conferences for one registration fee —learn 
more at tappi-ibbc.com or tappipeers.org. 
Catbrid ge surface winder sSpeed and Innovation
973.808.0029 | www.catbridge.com | sales@catbridge.com
1079960_Catbridge.indd   1 07/08/22   2:24 PM