 
  siemens -energy.com/ seafloat  
Key benefits  
• High efficiency  
o  up to 41% simple cycle  
o  ~62% combined cycle  
• Fast start -up capability, 
high operational flexibility  
• Low lifecycle costs  
• High reliability and 
availability  
• High serviceability  
• Reduced emissions per 
kWh  
• High efficiency and low 
emission also in part -load 
operation  
• Future fit, capable to burn 
up to 30% hydrogen  
 
The SCC -8000H SeaFloat plant utilizes the advanced and 
robust SGT -8000H gas turbine designed for combined 
cycle applications with the highest possible efficiency  
Short project duration  
The SCC -8000H is modularized design 
and pre -assembled at state -of-the-art 
shipyard facilities with highly qualified 
labor. This degree of modulariz ation 
minimizes both the manpower required 
at the yard and the installation and 
commissioning time at the fin al location .  
Typical fields of application  
The SeaFloat SCC -8000H is a note -
worthy  alternative to any land -based 
base load power plant  with  around  675 
MW  gross power output . It provides 
competitive CAPEX and OPEX due to  the 
numerous advantages. One application is 
the replacement of outdated (coal fired) 
power plants . The outdated asset can be 
kept operating until the moment when 
the SeaFloat power plant is arriving at 
the site and hook up to the grid has 
started.Less project risks  
Typical soil risks do not apply to 
SeaFloat. Project risk resulting from 
brown field activities such as demolition 
works, site leveling activities, relocation 
of existing structure can be avoided by 
using SeaFloat power plants, such as 
replaci ng outdated plants. Due to 
fabrication and assembly offsite,  project 
progress is not depend ent on availability 
of qualified labor and infrastructure at 
the final location of 
installation/operation.  
Consideration of marine conditions  
While the SCC -8000H SeaFloat plant is 
based on technology  from Siemens’ vast 
experience in land based combined cycle 
power plants, marine conditions, such as  
movements, accelerations , and hull 
deflections have been considered and 
optimiz ed. SeaFloat Power Plants  
SGT -8000H -Based Solution  
©Siemens Energy 202 2 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens  AG 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens  
 
  siemens -energy.com/ seafloat  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined  cycle power generation  1x1 50Hz  1x1 60Hz  
Gross  power output  ~675 MW  ~470 MW  
Gross  plant  efficiency  >61 % >61 %  
Number of gas turbines  1 1 
 
 
Note:  
Emissions, NOx, [ppmV]                              <25 @ 15% O2 (50 -100% GT load)  
Emissions, CO, [ppmV]                              <10 @ 15% O2 (50 -100% GT load)  
Installed performance at ISO conditions  Simple cycle power generation  50Hz  60Hz  
Power output  450 MW  310 MW  
Gross efficiency  > 41 %  > 40 %  
   SGT -8000H  
The gas turbine /generator set is a 3 -point 
mount single lift package to de -couple it 
from deflections of the barge. Improved 
bearing capacity & anti -vibration mounts 
cope with movements and accelerations . SST -5000  
Steam turbine and condenser are placed in 
a common single lift frame which is  
3-point mounted with anti -vibration 
mounts. Condenser partition plates and 
flexible elements have been considered . 
Published by © Siemens Energy 202 2| Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG  
 
For information only. Not guaranteed. Actual results are dependent on -site specifics. Subject to changes and provided on an “as is” basis without any express ed or implied representation or 
warranty of any kind and without any verification as to accuracy, suitability, or completeness . Terms subject to a final contract between the parties. Actual benefits and results are dependent 
on a variety of factors such as p lant specification, site specifics, operational profile, and local market conditions.  HRSG  
The HRSG is specially designed for a 
maritime environme nt. Baffle plates avoid 
sloshing of water in the drums and flexible 
elements and joints cope  with hull 
deflections.  