 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page  1 
 
 
  
siemens -energy.com  
 siemens -energy.com  
TechFacts  
#101 
Insulation coordination in air insulated substations  
with vacuum circuit breakers  
2023/01, rev. 2.0 
Blue technology  
with Zero F-gases  
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page  2 1 Introduction  
Insulation coordination is one of the most important as-
pects of the design of substations. The system operator 
must consider all service conditions and guarantee that 
no uncontrolled flashovers occur , which may  damag e 
the equipment in the substation. In particular,  short -
time events with the highest voltage amplitudes  must 
be taken into account , as they  determine the require-
ments for the equipment, e.g.,  circuit breakers (CB).  
 
Historically, simple spark gaps have been integrated into 
substation layouts to create  pre-determined points for 
electrical breakdowns  to occur . These spark gaps chop 
the incoming high voltage wave and thus reduce  the 
necessary  withstand capability of the high voltage CBs. 
The dielectric withstand behavior of the CBs is demon-
strated  by the chopped wave tests required  in the re-
spective IEEE standards [1], [2]. The well -established gas 
circuit breakers (GCB) are unable to quench  arcs after  
electrical flashove rs without contact travel, so their 
withstand capability must be higher than the expected 
flashover voltage of the spark gaps used for voltage limi-
tation. In the last decades, there have been drastic 
change s. 
The common practice  for insulation coordination of sub-
stations is to avoid spark gaps at line and transformer 
terminal s in favor of  metal oxide varistors (MOV) [3] . In 
addition,  vacuum circuit breakers (VCB) tend to be  used  
at transmission voltage levels. Comparatively to SF 6 or 
other GCBs, the VCBs have  the clear advantage  of 
quenching  electrical arcs between the open contacts in a 
fixed position , without further motion or separation of 
the contacts. In this technical report, the adjusted re-
quirements for usage of VCBs in modern substations are 
described . 
The necessity of fulfilling the chopped wave withstand  
requirement of the open  contact  gap of VCBs requires  special consideration , as stated in [2]. It is common 
practice at distribution voltage levels, but there may be  
technical and economic  reasons to  consider this require-
ment at the transmission voltage levels  as well . 
 
 
2 Impulse voltage protection in 
substations  
Overvoltage protection within a substation layout is one 
of the most crucial topics to be addressed . In the past , 
gapped silicon -carbide surge arresters were state of the 
art technology. They were typically reserved for the 
most valuable component in the substation, the power 
transformer.  This type of  arrester also protects the other 
components in the substation, provi ded that the  ele-
ments are electrically connected , i.e.,  devices (e.g., CBs, 
disconnectors) in the closed position.  
 
In modern substations , surge arresters are installed adja-
cent to power transformers, shunt reactors, power ca-
bles, gas -insulated substations (GIS), and , in many 
cases , on incoming lines entering air -insulated substa-
tions , to protect the mentioned assets from lightning 
and switching overvoltages. These surge arresters serve 
to keep the overvoltages in the range for which the 
equipment is designed.  
 
The coordination of the permissible overvoltages and 
protection levels for lightning and switching impulse 
overvoltages in relation to the system voltage is called 
insulation coordination and  is defined in standard 
IEC 60071. Reference Guides are given by the CIGRE, 
IEC, and IEEE for coordination levels to be congruent in 
the design of substations . 
Standardized test procedures and test levels depending 
on the rated voltage of the equipment have been de-
fined.  Typically, the following voltage tests must be performed to establish a certain standardized voltage 
withstand capability:  
 
• Lightning impulse withstand voltage  
(1.2/50  µs) 
• Switching impulse withstand voltage  
(250/2500  µs) 
• Power frequency withstand voltage  
(50 Hz or 60  Hz) 
Tests that are n ot generally required in international and 
national standards but that may be locally required  in-
clude : 
 
• Oscillating voltage  
• Chopped wave lightning impulse with different chop-
ping times  
In the following sections, the occurrence of chopped 
wave impulses and , therefore the necessity to verify the 
withstand capability of the  CBs against such impulses , 
depending on configuration, shall be discussed. The 
chopped wave requirement for CB s has been specified 
since 1960 in IEEE standard only. IEC standards do not 
define this testing requirement.  
 
Two types of chopped wave s are typically used : either  a 
2 µs chopped wave impulse with a crest value of 
1.29  times the lightning impulse (LI) peak  value, or a 
3 µs chopped wave impulse with a crest value of 
1.15  times the LI level.  The 3  µs chopped wave require-
ment uses the same values as that of the transformer 
standards. In the year 2000 , the 3  µs chopped wave re-
quirement was removed  from the IEEE Std.  C37.06 be-
cause of the dielectric behavior of SF 6 and VCBs (see Fig-
ure 1) . 
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page  3  
Figure 1: Dielectric behavior of different interruption media . 
2.1 Chopped wave lightning impulses in 
substations with line arresters  
Any transmission line entering a GIS is equipped with a 
line arrester at the interconnection between  line and 
GIS. This is the reason why GIS has no rating for 
chopped wave lightning impulses that must be verified. 
Since metal -oxide surge arresters have been established 
as reliable and cost-effective overvoltage protection, line 
arresters are  also applied for new air -insulated substa-
tions (AIS); see Figure 2.  
These arresters  are also installed when existing AIS sub-
stations are refurbished.  
Line surge arresters do provide sufficient protection 
from lightning impulse overvoltages, independent ly of 
form  (full wave or chopped wave ) and limit them to a 
level that has been verified by lightning impulse voltage 
type test s. For substations with  line surge arresters on 
incoming transmission lines, the verification of a 
chopped wave lightning impulse withstand level is not 
necessary . 2.2 Chopped  wave lightning impulses in 
substations with coordinating rod gaps on 
incoming lines  
Many substations are still in service where  coordination 
rod gap  arrester s protect the station from lightning 
surges by means of discharg e. They are simple and 
cheap but , when they are activated for protect ion, there 
is always a fault current that must be clear ed by tripping 
the affected line.  
Chopped wave 
lightning im-
pulses may travel 
in the station  
when such rod 
gap arrester s are 
installed . They 
are generated 
when a full wave 
lightning surge 
approaches the 
station and  is 
then chopped by 
the rod gap  ar-
rester . During 
normal system 
operation , either 
the line is con-
nected,  and the 
CB is closed, or 
the line is de -en-
ergized with the 
CB open,  and the 
line is separated 
by a discon-
nect or switch.  In the first case,  a chopped wave lightning impulse volt-
age may hit the CB in closed position . This situation is 
covered when a chopped wave  lightning impulse level  
has been verified  in closed position of the CB.  
In the second case, when the CB is separated from the 
line by a disconnector switch, lightning surges (full and 
chopped) stop at the open disconnector switch.  
Hence, regarding the first case, the verification of a 
chopped wave lightning impulse withstand level may be 
required for closed CBs, in substations with  coordinating 
rod gap  arrester s on incoming transmission lines . 
Figure 2: Typical substation  layout . 
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page  4 2.3 Chopped wave lightning impulses on 
open circuit breaker contact s 
The case of a CB in open position is different. The sub-
station  equipment  is still protected by the arrester of the 
power transformer ; however,  the line entrance terminals 
are not protected by the arrester of the substation and 
no protection is provided to  the CB. There are  three op-
tions to solve the problem [4]:  
 
1. An a dditional surge arrester on the line side.  
2. The i mplementation of rod gap  arrester s on the line 
side.  
3. No protection measures at all . 
Option  one is the most favorable solution [3] and is 
nowadays  applied in nearly all new substations.  
Options  2 and 3 may be implemented  in older existing 
substations , and the effects on the design and withstand 
capability of the  open contacts  of the CB must be dis-
cussed.  
Most commonly, if the CB  is in open position , the dis-
connector will also be in an open position. The situation 
where  the CB is in the open  position  and the discon-
nector is in the closed position is quite rare. If this spe-
cific situation  were to  occur, the contact gap in vacuum 
may break down at the crest of chopped wave impulse. 
At this moment, the VCB acts like a closed circuit and the 
wave travel s to the arrester of the substation. The equip-
ment of the substation is protected by this procedure. 
The current flow is interrupted at the next occurring cur-
rent zero , since, intri nsically, the VCB interrupts currents 
in the open position, without contact movement . The 
situation is resolved  without any negative impact on the 
VCB (see also chapter 3.2). This behavior is different to  that of  GCBs, which require  contact movement for the 
current interruption process  (pressure build -up needed ). 
 
 
3 Contact gaps in gas and 
vacuum  
3.1 Breakdown mechanisms in gas and 
vacuum  
In order to  understand the difference between vacuum 
gaps and gas gaps, it is important to understand the 
breakdown mechanisms in both media. The generally 
accepted mechanisms for the theoretical description  of 
lightning impulse breakdown in gases within contact 
gaps are based on high frequency behavior in electrical 
fields.  
The evolution of the breakdown can be described as fol-
lows. Initial ly, it is assumed that a first electron is gener-
ated in the electric field by , for example,  photoioniza-
tion. This electron is accelerated in the electric field and , 
through  ionization , will produce more electrons  on its 
way from the cathode to the anode (Figure 3).  
 
 
Figure 3: Breakdown avalanche in gas atmosphere [5 ]. This streamer mechanism  (an avalanche -like production 
of electrons ) generates a conductive channel , and the 
breakdown of the gap will be the consequence.  
In the case of  high frequency breakdowns, it is essential 
that both initial conditions are present : the first elec-
tron (s) and a sufficient ly high  electrical field.  
Also, the longer the electrical field is present, the higher 
the probability of breakdown. In other words , the less 
time  the electric field is present  across the gap , the 
higher the field strength that the gap is able to with-
stand.  
Summarizing , the impulse withstand capability of a gas 
gap depends on both : the voltage amplitude and the 
pulse duration. This behavior is commonly described by 
means of the critical area under the curve of the voltage  
temporal dis tribution , i.e.,  by evaluation of  the integral 
of the curve  (Figure 4).  
 
 
Figure 4: Dependence of breakdown time and amplitude for gas at-
mosphere [5] . 

 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page  5 Consequently , the dielectric stresses in gas gaps, e.g., in 
the internal design  of the GCB, at 145 kV rated voltage  
are comparable to a 650 kV lightning impulse 
(1.2/50  µs) and an 838  kV, 2  µs chopped wave impulse , 
and one design meets  both requirements. This is g ener-
ally valid for all gas insulation  devices , regardless of gas 
type.  
 
The mechanisms  in vacuum gaps  are completely differ-
ent. Since there is no gas  in the gap , all initial effects 
must occur  very close to the contact surface. In princi-
ple, the response of the cathodic and of the anodic con-
tact surfaces to high electric fields plays a major role in 
the breakdown . In the case  of the cathode,  micro -protru-
sions  on the surface yield high, up to a factor of 1000, 
local enhancements of the electric field , as well as  an in-
homogeneous heat flux from the protrusion  into the 
bulk material of the contact. The two  mechanisms, ac-
celeration of electrons in a very  high electric field and a 
low dissipative heat flux , result  in an overheating of the 
protrusion  and thus a micro -explosion at the surface. 
The latter vaporizes  the contact material  and ionizes the 
metal vapor . This process is commonly called explosive 
electron  emission and will lead to  a complete breakdown 
of the gap. In the case  of anode -initiated breakdown,  
electrons released from the cathod e surface are acceler-
ated in the electric field towards the anode and , once 
they hit the contact surface,  may also evaporate anode 
material , starting  a metal vapor -based breakdown from 
this electrode  [6]. 
 
Both cases of breakdown initiation  depend on the struc-
ture of the contact surface and on the applied electric 
field. Since the processes  in the vacuum gap are instan-
taneous on a nanosecond timescale, the breakdown 
mechanism is nearly independent of the duration of the 
electric field ; thus , the design criterion of the vacuum 
gap is only defined by the amplitude of the incoming 
voltage wave. Taking the chopped wave amplitude of 838 kV into consideration, the design of a vacuum inter-
rupter would ( through  scali ng with the peak value ) lead 
to a voltage level of 187  kV (rated voltage)  rather than 
145 kV. Such an  overdesign of the vacuum interrupter is 
not relevant  for most  applications.  
Another  physic al and technolog ical aspect  that distin-
guishes the GCB and the VCB is the recovery behavior in 
the CB after electrical breakdown.  
3.2 Recovery after electrical breakdown in 
gas and vacuum gaps  
The conducting  channel immediately turns into a n arc 
when an electrical breakdown between the open con-
tacts of a GCB (SF 6, CO 2 etc.) occurs . Depending on the 
current magnitude and the properties of the used  gas, 
different reactions of the switching gap are possible. For 
low currents and good arc extin ction  properties of the 
gas (for example SF 6), the arc could be extinguished at 
the current zero following the breakdown.  For gases 
with worse  arc extinction properties , like CO 2 (or gas 
mixtures with CO 2 or ai r), there will only be a minor , or 
no possibility at all, for the arc to self -extinguish after 
breakdown. Consequently, only in the case of  SF6 will 
there be a chance for GCBs to not be destroyed by the 
breakdown. However, some damage can occur, e.g., in 
the insulation nozzle.  Some types of GCB chambers will 
be destroyed by the breakdown and completely lose 
their arc extin ction  capability. In such a  case , the af-
fected circuit breaker needs to be isolated by circuit 
breaker failure protection or backup protection.  There-
fore, it is common practice to submit  all GCBs to full 
wave LI and chopped wave LI tests, in closed and open 
position , to ensure rated insulation levels.  
 
In contrast to GCBs, the vacuum interrupter can easily 
extinguish the  arc following  breakdown.  Here , the big advantage of vacuum interruption becomes obvious:  the 
switching arc can be extinguished without any move-
ment of the contacts , simply as a result of  the contact 
geometry and the physics of the vacuum arc. The condi-
tions are very similar to vacuum spark gaps so that a reli-
able extinction of the discharge is achieved . 
In those cases of unforeseen and unwanted breakdown 
events , the vacuum contact gap can also be considered 
as an additional intrinsic protective measure for the CB , 
since the breakdowns are clearly controlled within the 
gap.  
All other insulation distances where hazardous conse-
quences of breakdowns may occur  are also protected by 
the vacuum gap. The system with an  open VCB gap and  
a transformer terminal surge arrester act s the same way 
as a line side spark gap with a silicon carbide surge ar-
rester. Therefore, the open contact gap can be handled 
differently when compared to open gaps in GCBs. This is 
remarked in the standards: IEC 62271 -1, which  allow s 
preconditioning breakdowns of the open vacuum gap , 
and IEEE C37.04 , which  spec ifically addresses  the 
chopped wave withstand of open contacts in vacuum.  
 
 
4 Conclusion and 
Recommendations  
The occurrence of chopped wave lightning impulses 
within substations which are equipped with line surge 
arresters on the incoming transmission lines  is not nec-
essary . The non -linear resistance  of the arrestor  provides 
a high ly conductive path to ground at overvoltage  im-
pulses , but it is not conductive at operating voltage. The 
overvoltage surges are diverted to ground without an 
outage of the circuit . It is thus  not necessary to verify a 
chopped wave lightning impulse withstand level for CBs,  
or any other equipment installed in the substation , 
whether AIS or GIS . Supporting this statement , the 
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page  6 standard  IEC 60071 for insulation coordination does not 
consider chopped wave impulse voltage as a relevant  
factor. Insulation Coordination Guides, Surge Arrester 
Application Guides, Circuit Breaker Standard Recommen-
dations, Substation Guides etc. from recognized power 
and utility organizations throughout the globe have 
standardized the return -on-investment  of surge arrester 
protection. It is internationally recognized that surge ar-
resters are the most effective overvoltage protection for 
substation equipme nt. 
In substations where incoming lines are equipped with 
coordination rod gap  arrester s, chopped wave impulses 
are generated by the gap itself or may pass it before the 
arrester  responds.  
Consider ation  may be given to verify ing a chopped wave 
lightning impulse withstand level on closed CBs. Open 
CBs in standard operation are protected by the open dis-
connect or switch. Nonetheless, chopped wave test s on 
open GCB s must  be successfully passe d to prevent  any 
potential ly hazardous situation s for the CB itself. In con-
trast, open VCB s have  an intrinsic self -protection against 
impulse flashover.  
 
The use of VCB s in a substation  should take into account  
the following:  
 
1. In state -of-the-art substations , MOV arresters are 
applied at line and transformer terminals , so that 
the chopped wave situation is not necessary . 
2. In the case of open VCBs, the standard IEEE C37.04 
recommends  “special consideration ”. 
Taking the described physical behavior of the open 
VCBs into account, the  suppliers of medium and 
high -voltage VCBs follow the common practice:  
• the withstand for standard 1.2/50  µs-LI-wave as 
relevant and required , and  • the withstand for 2  µs chopped wave as not rel-
evant and , as such, not required.  
In conclusion, even if a n open VCB does not fully meet 
the chopped wave test requirements , it fully complies 
with the standard s.  In the case of  VCBs in close d posi-
tion, the CB chopped wave withstand capability of the 
overall circuit breaker insulation is to  be tested accord-
ing to  standards.  5 Bibliography  
Authors:  Dr. S. Giere, Dr.  T. Heinz, K.  Pohlink, J.  Rogers, 
Dr. J. Teichmann, J.  Weisker  
 
[1] "IEEE Std 4 - 2013"IEEE Standard for High -Voltage 
Testing.  
 
[2] "IEEE Std C37.04 - 2018" IEEE Standard for Ratings 
and Requirements for AC High -Voltage Circuit Breakers 
with Rated Maximum Voltage Above 1000 V.  
 
[3] T. F. J. Krieg, CIGRE Green Book : Substations , 
Springer , 2019.  
 
[4] A. A. Hileman, Insulation Coordination for Power Sys-
tems, Taylor & Francis, 1999.  
 
[5] A. Küchler, Hochspannungstechnik, Springer, 2009.  
 
[6] P. G. Slade, The Vacuum Interrupter  – Theory, Design , 
and Appli cation , CRC Press, Tailor & Francis Group, 2nd 
edition, 202 1. 
 
 © 202 4 Siemens Energy  Page  7  
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Grid Technologies  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany  
 
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens -energ y.com  or contact us  
Email: support@siemens -energy.com  
 
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this docu-
ment only contains general descriptions and/or performance fea-
tures which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further devel op-
ment of the products. The requested performance features are 
binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   For the U.S. published by  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Grid Technologies  
8841 Wadford Drive  
Raleigh, NC 27616  
USA    
     