8    GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2024 www.gasturbineworld.comIn 2023, the gas turbine powered 
combined heat and power (CHP) 
plant at a paper mill in the small 
French village of Saillat-sur-Vienne 
was operated with up to 100% 
hydrogen. This was the first time 
that an integrated power-to-X-power 
system was demonstrated under real 
conditions within a single site. 
Under an EU-funded R&D project 
known as HYFLEXPOWER , launched 
in 2020, required modifications took 
place at the Smurfit Kappa paper mill 
for enabling the CHP facility to operate 
on admixtures of green hydrogen and 
natural gas fuel – leading to the suc-
cessful demonstration during 2022/23 
of an integrated industrial power-to- 
H2-to-power pilot installation.
In addition to fuel-related modifications 
at the CHP plant, project scope involved 
production, compression and storage of 
green hydrogen, design, development 
and testing of a modified Siemens En-
ergy SGT-400 combustion system ca-
pable of operation on 100% hydrogen 
fuel, and the validation demonstration 
test program. Demo highlights:
 Fuel supply. Hydrogen production 
rate of the newly installed 1.2 MW 
proton exchange membrane (PEM) 
electrolyzer was about 16.4 kg/hr. Gas turbine.  Fuel consumption of 
SGT-400 producing 10 MW operat -
ing on 100% hydrogen was about 810 
kg/hr.
 Test operation. Total 90 hours on 
blended fuel, included approx. 10 hrs 
at over 80% (vol) hydrogen with over 
4 hrs on 100% hydrogen (limited by 
fuel supply).
Results:  New 100% natural gas to 
100% hydrogen-capable burner per -
formed consistently within design 
margins and NOx emissions <25 ppm 
under all test operating conditions.
In assessing design requirements for 
developing a gas turbine capable of 
running on all blends from pure natural 
gas up to 100% hydrogen, Siemens En-
ergy engineers observed that it was not 
enough to simply adapt existing natu-
ral gas fired models. Rather, they found 
that new combustors must be designed 
from scratch and optimized for burn-
ing hydrogen, moving progressively 
from natural gas fuel blends to burning 
100% hydrogen. This design philoso-
phy guided the successful execution of 
the HYFLEXPOWER  project .
Simulations vital
The first step in the redesign process 
for the SGT-400 gas turbine was to de-sign and run detailed hydrogen com-
bustion simulations. This was no small 
undertaking, consisting of over two 
weeks of high-powered computations 
to simulate complex aspects of heat 
transfer and gas flow interactions. 
The higher reactivity and broad flam -
mability limits of hydrogen pose 
unique challenges for the premix 
combustion process characteristic of 
dry low emission (DLE) burners. The 
simulations therefore proved vital for 
designing the new hydrogen-capable 
burners since hydrogen’s higher flame 
speed and temperatures can result 
in damage to burner hardware in the 
event of flashback, i.e. when the flame 
front moves upstream into the fuel/air 
mixing zone from its design location. 
New DLE burner design
Assisted by these state-of-the-art sim-
ulation tools, Siemens Energy engi-
neers designed the SGT-400 burners 
for 100% hydrogen combustion. This 
process was further enhanced by the 
application of 3D printing techniques 
to allow use of complex design fea-
tures not otherwise practical using 
conventional fabrication methods.
Additive manufacturing enables 
monolithic reproduction of the burn-
ers as a single piece of metal, ensuring In a world’s first, SGT-400 powered CHP plant demonstrates 
viability of on-site integrated power-to-H 2-to-power concept.HYFLEXPOWER  project demonstrates 100% 
hydrogen operation at CHP plant in France
By Benjamin Witzel, Head of Fuel Flexibility, Hydrogen and Carbon Capture, Siemens Energy 
gtwmarch2024_FINAL-3.indd   8gtwmarch2024_FINAL-3.indd   8 4/29/24   2:15 PM4/29/24   2:15 PM
www.gasturbineworld.com   GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2024     9structural integrity and allowing the 
new designs to incorporate intricate internal features such as miniature 
cooling and purge flow channels. Fur -
ther, as designers need to alter certain 
details during the development pro-cess, this method of fabrication allows 
for fast design iterations due to rapid 
prototyping.
Results confirmed these benefits. 
Thanks to 3D printing, the engineer -
ing team optimized the hydrogen-ca-
pable DLE burner design to increase 
the upstream speed of fuel-and-air mixture to protect the burner hard-ware from harmful flashback. 
H
2 burner verification testing
Before deploying the new burner de-
sign to the field for the full-engine test-ing and verification, Siemens Energy conducted design validation tests to confirm its operation and performance.
The prototype burner was first tested 
in a high-pressure single-burner com-bustion test rig at the company’s Clean Energy Center in Ludwigsfelde, near Berlin. Testing covered a wide range of hydrogen and natural gas blends, 
including 100% hydrogen.  
Rig testing was followed by engine 
testing at the gas turbine test site in Lincoln, UK, where the updated burn-er was installed in an SGT-400 test 
engine to quantify engine operability 
and satisfy multiple quality checks operating on natural gas. Finally, two more preparatory gas turbine engine 
tests were run on site at the CHP plant 
in France. 
These engine tests proved to be an 
important complement to rig testing which can never faithfully reproduce real-world operating conditions of a 
power plant integrated into an indus-
trial site, such as varying fuel gas pres-sure, temperature changes, air flow patterns, etc. Full engine testing also provides valuable data for establishing rig-to-engine correlations for future rig testing.
Fuel system upgrades
Another central change in design con-cerned the fuel gas system. Due to hy-drogen’s roughly one-third volumetric energy density (kJ/Nm
3) compared to 
natural gas, volumetric fuel flow to the engine must be greatly increased 
to achieve rated power output when 
operating at higher percentages of hy-drogen content. 
This necessitated an increase in flow 
capacity and required development of 
a larger capacity fuel system. Addi-
tionally, a third fuel injection port (vs. two for natural gas) was introduced, allowing the premixed combustion 
system to be fine-tuned, resulting in 
even lower NOx emissions.
For safety, to minimize the risk of hy-
drogen ignition, modifications were made to the standard gas turbine fuel system double block and vent piping design. The vent line was equipotential bonded and well earthed (aka ground-ed), flow rate minimized, and pipe sys-tem cleaned to ensure it was free of any debris or particles that could promote ignition through static discharge. Last, the gas detection system was adjusted 
Figure 1. HYFLEXPOWER  flow schematic. Project demonstrated validity of fully integrated green Power-to-H 2-to-
Power concept for decarbonizing gas turbine CHP plant.Natural
GasSGT-400
Gas TurbineRenewable energy from grid
Green energy to grid
Heat Recovery12 MWe at full load
20 MW th at full load0 – 100% H 2
H2 / NG
Mixing SkidWater
Electrolyzer Compressor Storage
gtwmarch2024_FINAL-3.indd   9 4/29/24   2:15 PM
10    GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2024 www.gasturbineworld.comto operate safely with hydrogen fuel.
Additionally, the turbine enclosure 
ventilation system was analyzed us-ing computational fluid dynamics to 
determine gas cloud formations across 
the full range of system operating pressures. Results confirmed that the system provided sufficient ventilation 
airflow to prevent the buildup of haz-
ardous gas clouds. 
Over 200 sensors were added to the 
gas turbine engine monitoring sys-tem, especially to collect data for es-
tablishing a combustion rig-to-engine 
correlation, and the engine control software was upgraded to supply more real-time data to oversee the changed 
gas turbine setup and operating char -
acteristics.
Green hydrogen production 
To generate green hydrogen at the site, renewable energy from the grid was used for the electrolysis of water using a 1.2 MW proton exchange membrane 
(PEM) electrolyzer supplied by Sie-
mens Energy.The design hydrogen production rate of the electrolyzer (Silyzer 200 mod-el) was about 16.4 kg/hr, while the fuel consumption rate of the SGT-400 gas turbine producing 10 MW of power while burning 100% hydrogen was approximately 810 kg/hr. The green hydrogen produced by the electrolyzer 
Figure 3.  SGT-400 gas turbine at Smurfit-Kappa  paper plant.  Gas turbine combustion system was modified to 
burn hydrogen/natural gas blends up to 100% hydrogen content.
Figure 2.  Siemens Energy SGT-400 gas turbine. Proven split-shaft gas turbine for electric power generation and mechanical drive applications servicing the 10-15MW power range.
gtwmarch2024_FINAL-3.indd   10 4/29/24   2:15 PM
www.gasturbineworld.com    GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2024     11was compressed to 140 bar and stored 
in a bank of pressurized tanks installed 
at the plant site.
For delivering blended fuel to the gas 
turbine, a fuel mixing station was de-
signed and installed for metering and 
mixing hydrogen with natural gas, 
with the ability to supply blends rang-
ing from 100% natural gas and up to 
100% hydrogen.  
Demonstration test programs
In autumn 2022, field testing at the 
CHP plant was initiated primarily fo-
cusing on the commissioning of all 
the new equipment systems installed 
at the site. For these preliminary tests, 
the SGT-400 gas turbine had a set of 
modified standard DLE burners and 
the testing was, therefore, limited to 
30% (vol) hydrogen fuel blend.
Following initial test runs, and after 
making only minor modifications, 
including pilot burner fuel-side and 
combustor liner air-side adjustments, 
a planned series of tests was success-
fully completed. An important obser -
vation made during these tests was 
that the improved flame stability of the 
modified burner design contributed to 
lowering the exhaust gas NOx concen -
tration. 
For the second and central hydrogen 
combustion demonstration program, 
conducted during much of 2023, the 
new combustion technology SGT-
400 burners were installed.  These 
advanced design burners utilized an 
added axial fuel stage, along with a 
central pilot stage and jet-stabilized 
main burner. 
Overall, the new three-stage burn-
er performed well across the full fu-
el-composition spectrum from 100% 
natural gas to 100% hydrogen fuel, 
where full decarbonization of the ex-
haust emissions was demonstrated. 
The new burner also demonstrated 
improved flashback resistance while 
operating on high hydrogen mixtures.
The project team completed 90 hours of 
testing, which included approximately 
10 hours of operation with concentra-tions above 80% (vol) hydrogen. Of 
those, more than 4 hours were run on 
100% hydrogen –cut short only due to 
limited hydrogen storage tank capacity. 
Besides validating good overall perfor -
mance of the new combustion system, 
other predictions regarding burner func-
tional behavior were also confirmed. 
For example, combustion dynamics 
and metal temperatures remained with-
in acceptable margins and NOx emis-
sions stayed within the expected range, 
always remaining under 25 ppm. 
Occasional operational challenges, 
such as consistency of the mixing sta-
tion, were minor and easily addressed. 
Finally, thanks to the success of a new 
instant flashback detection system, the 
hardware remained undamaged.
Not the only game in town 
Given the important role to be played 
by green hydrogen in the energy tran-
sition, there are other active projects 
with similar objectives to those of the 
HYFLEXPOWER  project.For example Braskem Brazil, the larg-
est petrochemical company in Latin 
America, is one of several organiza -
tions that already use hydrogen blend-
ed fuel to reduce carbon emissions. 
The company is using two SGT-600 
gas turbines installed at a cogeneration 
plant at its ABC Petrochemical Com-
plex in Mauá, Brazil, fueled by resid-
ual process gas with up to 60% (vol) 
hydrogen content.
And, at the Donaustadt CHP power 
station in Vienna, Wien Energie, and 
energy suppliers RheinEnergie from 
Germany and Austrian Verbund, have 
demonstrated blending the natural gas 
fuel of the plant’s SGT5-4000F gas 
turbine with green hydrogen. 
The first stage of this project burned 
a blend of 15% (vol) hydrogen, while 
the goal for the second stage is to dou-
ble this to 30%. (See “Green hydro-
gen co-firing demonstration slated for 
F-class CHP plant in Vienna”, GTW, 
March, 2023)
HYFLEXPOWER  project team: a diverse partnership
The HYFLEXPOWER  project, with a total budget of about 15 million 
€, of which 10.5 million € was funded by the European Union under 
the ‘Horizon 2020’ framework program for research and innovation, 
is run by a diverse consortium of partners:
•  Siemens Energy:  responsible for the hydrogen combustor design 
and development, and other modifications to make the SGT-400 gas 
turbine hydrogen-capable – plus suppling the Silyzer 200 1.2 MW 
PEM electrolyzer. 
•  Engie Solutions:  as CHP plant operator developed the advanced 
plant concept and upgraded the plant site for hydrogen compres-
sion, storage, mixing and supply. 
•  Centrax supplied the gas turbine package upgrades to ensure its 
safe operation on hydrogen fuel.
•  Arttic:  provided support for operational project management. 
In addition, research institutions such as the University College Lon-
don, University of Duisburg-Essen, Lund University, and National 
Technical University of Athens all made valuable contributions.
gtwmarch2024_FINAL-3.indd   11gtwmarch2024_FINAL-3.indd   11 4/29/24   2:15 PM4/29/24   2:15 PM
12    GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2024 www.gasturbineworld.comDecarbonization framed in green H 2
These hydrogen projects are signs of 
things to come for the future of gas 
turbines in the power and industrial 
sector– whether for the energy transi-
tion, avoiding curtailment, or ensuring 
dispatchable energy. In support of this 
pathway to decarbonization, all new 
gas turbines to be supplied by the major 
OEMs are expected be capable of burn-
ing 100% hydrogen by 2030 or sooner. 
It is noted that using the word ‘capa -
ble’ here means these turbines can 
do so with no further conversions, whereas ‘H 2-ready’ refers to new pow-
er plants designed and equipment for 
minimal changes for a fully capable 
conversion at a later stage. We feel that 
both labels apply to the CHP plant in 
Saillat-sur-Vienne.
And the story doesn’t end there.  Start-
ing in February 2024, building on the 
success of HYFLEXPOWER , a new 
project at the same plant, known as 
HyCoFlex,  aims to develop a retro-
fitable decarbonization package for 
cogeneration of power and industrial 
heat with 100% hydrogen-fired gas 
turbines.  The objective is to develop operational 
flexibility capabilities and protocols to 
satisfy operating profiles typically ex-
perienced by industrial cogeneration 
plants. 
By doing so, HyCoFlex  will establish 
credible pathways for upscaling and rep-
licating the retrofit package, ultimately 
accelerating the achievement of indus-
trial and energy sector decarbonization. 
Without a doubt, the international en-
ergy community will keep a keen eye 
on this small, unassuming village in 
west-central France.  
Figure 4.  Smurfit-Kappa plant site.  SGT-400 gas turbine driven CHP plant (center foreground) supplies 12MWe 
to the grid and 20MWth process heat to the plant. An electrolyzer, hydrogen compressor, and storage tanks were 
added for the HyFlexPower project.
gtwmarch2024_FINAL-3.indd   12gtwmarch2024_FINAL-3.indd   12 4/29/24   2:15 PM4/29/24   2:15 PM