 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Power -to-X: The 
crucial  business  on 
the way  to a 
carbon -free world  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
siemens -energy.com/electrolyzer  
White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  2  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents  
Why  engage  in Power -to-X 
Page  3 
1.1 Fast decarbonization  is a must  
1.2 Sector  coupling  opens  the whole  energy  landscape  for renewable  sources  
1.3 Power -to-X is the important  pathway  
1.4 The core  of Power -to-X is green  hydr ogen  
1.5 Decarbonizing  the world  with  Power -to-X could  begin  today  
 
Technology:  Power -to-X and use cases  
Page  7 
2.1 Power -to-Hydrogen  
2.2 Power -to-Methanol,  Power -to-Hydrocarbons  
2.3 Power -to-Ammonia  
 
Down  to business:  economic  feasibility  and drivers  
Page 9  
3.1 Production  of e-Fuels  under  best local  conditions  
3.2 Power -to-X can contribute  to grid balancing  
3.3 E-Fuels  outperform  biomass -based  fuels  
3.4 Regulatory  inducements  are still needed  
 
Hand  in hand:  solutions  provided  by Siemens  Energy  
Page 1 2 
4.1 Siemens  Energy  H2 package  
4.2 Siemens  Energy  re-electrification  package  
4.3 Digital  solutions  and Power -to-X system  design  package  
 
The power  of now:  The hydrogen  economy  starts  today  
Page  21 1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  3  
  
 
 
1. Why  engage  in Power -to-X 
 
 
1.1 Fast decarbonization  is a must  
The climate  crisis  is palpable:  According  to the United  Nations,  storms,  wildfires,  droughts  and other  extreme  weather  
phenomena  fueled  by climate  change  have  hit 4.5 billion  people  in the past 20 years,  and a study  from  the German  insur - 
ance  company  Munich  RE showed  that the cost of these  disasters  in 2018  alone  amounted  to US$160  billion.  The contin - 
ued projections  of damage  caused  by the emission  of greenhouse  gases  are dire and incalculable:  rising  global  tempera - 
tures,  shrinking  glaciers,  warmer  oceans,  vanishing  coastlines  and increasing  natural  catastrophes.  
 
Curbing  the greenhouse  effect  has become  one,  if not the decisive  factor  for energy  policies  worldwide.  In an effort  to 
limit  global  warming  to well below  2 °C above  preindustrial  levels,  the Paris  Agreement  negotiated  at the 2015  United  
Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  requires  zero net emissions  by 2045  to 2060.  One hundred  and seventy -four countries  
have  signed  the treaty,  but political  pressure  in industrialized  countries  is mounting  to increase  the speed  of transforma - 
tion.  In October  2018,  the International  Panel  on Climate  Change  (ICPP)  further  reiterated  the need  for decarbonization  
and recommended  an even  more  challenging  target  of limiting  global  warming  to 1.5 °C by the end of the century,  further  
increasing  the pressure  for transformation.  
 
Enormous  efforts  and investments  have  been  made  to increase  the share  of electricity  from  renewables  in the power  
sector  up to 25 percent  globally  in 2017,  but with  little  impact  on global  carbon  emissions.  As the power  sector  contributes  
to the global  CO2 emissions  by only 40 percent,  little  progress  in decarbonizing  the remaining  60 percent  from  other  
sectors  such  as transportation,  buildings,  industry  and others  has been  seen.  In fact,  greenhouse  gas emissions  have  
continued  to peak  year on year with  a record  increase  of 1.7 percent  in 2018.  
1.2 Sector coupling opens the whole energy landscape for renewable  
sources  
In a fossil -dominated  economy,  decarbonization  of sectors  like industry,  power,  heating,  gas or mobility  was largely  driven  
separately.  To reach  the target  of net zero CO2 emissions  by mid-century,  these  separate  sectors  have  to be integrated  or 
coupled  in order  to provide  renewable  energy  from  the power  sector  to support  their  decarbonization.  This sector  coupling  
is a fundamental  element  of the energy  transition.  The blurring  of industry  boundaries  becomes  even  more  important  as 
the installed  capacity  in renewable  energy  continues  to rise. Already  in some  countries  today,  the power  provided  by wind  
and solar,  by far the most  important  sources  of renewable  energy,  supersedes  the immediate  consumption.  As a result,  
many  wind  farms  need  to be curtailed  when  their  power  generation  exceeds  demand.  
 
Using  renewable  electrical  energy  from  the power  sector  to decarbonize  energy  across  all sectors  unlocks  enormous  envi- 
ronmental  and business  potential:  Under  certain  conditions,  we can demonstrate  that sector  coupling  offers  the potential  
to reduce  primary  fossil  energy  consumption  by 50 percent.  At the same  time,  power  demand  would  need  to increase  by 
25 percent,  making  the power  sector  the backbone  of energy  supply.  
White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  4  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  coupling  mostly  volatile  renewable  energy  resources  with  the different  sectors  leads  to complex  structures  with  
the need  for optimized  operation  and control  modes.  Digital  solutions  will play an important  role in enabling  such  infra - 
structures.  
 
1.3 Power -to-X is the important  pathway  
Power -to-X processes  are the technological  answer  for sector  coupling.  For decades,  combined  heat  and power  generation  
(CHP)  has been  a success  for maximizing  the efficiency  of fossil  energy  by using  waste  heat  for the heating  sector.  Power - 
to-Heat  via heat  pumps  or – simple,  but less efficient  – heating  rods will now  open  a new green  concept  for heating  
buildings  or even  provide  process  heat  for the industry.  Electromobility,  the direct  use of electrical  energy  via batteries,  is 
currently  promoted  in numerous  countries,  mainly  for cars.  No doubt  – this is a major  disruptive  trend.  However,  electro - 
mobility  is most  likely  not the answer  for long -haul heavy  transportation,  marine  and aviation.  Here,  energy -dense  syn- 
thetic  fuels  generated  from  renewable  electrical  energy,  called  e-Fuels,  should  increasingly  replace  fossil  fuels.  These  
e-Fuels are similar to and can be mixed with conventional fuels in order to reduce the carbon content in the fuel mixture  over 
time, without the need to change cars or the fuel logistics infrastructure. In this manner, the transition from a fossil  world  to 
a largely  carbon -neutral  environment  can be done  smoothly  with  immediate  emission  reductions  on the way.  

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  5  
  
 
 
1.4 The core of Power -to-X is green  hydrogen  
Currently  around  70-80 million  tons of hydrogen  are produced  worldwide  every  year mostly  from  steam  methane  reform - 
ing or autothermal  reforming.  Fifty  percent  of this hydrogen  is used  for the synthesis  of ammonia,  which  is the basis  for 
ammonia  phosphate  or urea  and other  chemicals.  Hydrogen  is also used  in refineries  for hydrocarbon  cracking  and other  
processes.  In the food  industry,  hydrogen  is used  for fat hardening.  
 
The conventional  method  for producing  hydrogen  is the steam  reforming  process,  in which  steam  reacts  with  natural  gas 
to produce  synthetic  gas or syngas,  a mixture  of hydrogen  and carbon  monoxide.  CO is shifted  to CO2,  which  is ultimately  
removed,  but usually  emitted  to the atmosphere.  If the CO2 is sequestered,  which  is increasingly  being  considered  by 
different  companies,  this fossil -based  hydrogen  can be produced  without  CO2 emissions  to a certain  extent.  
 
In comparison, the generation of green hydrogen via electrolysis of water with electrical energy from renewable sources is  
completely free of CO2 emissions from the beginning. Hydrogen exclusively generated from electrical, renewable energy is  also 
known  as green  hydrogen.  
 
The discovery  of electrolysis  goes  back  to the year 1800,  when  the Italian  physicist  Alessandro  Volta  discovered  that water  
molecules  could  be split into oxygen  and hydrogen  by means  of an electric  current.  This discovery  has become  a key 
technology  for the energy  transition  because  the chemical  bond  energy  in hydrogen  can be extracted  in many  ways.  
 
It can be easily  stored  and used  either  as a direct  fuel for mobility  or as a feedstock  for various  industries.  Via synthesis  
with  carbon  dioxide  (from  unavoidable  industrial  emissions  or from  direct  air capture)  it can be converted  into synthetic,  
sustainable  e-Fuels  such  as e-Methanol,  e-Methane,  e-Diesel,  e-Jet Fuel or other  carbon -based  chemicals.  E-Ammonia  from  
green  hydrogen  and nitrogen  is another  application.  
 
In a vastly  decarbonized  world,  green  hydrogen  will realize  long -term,  seasonal  power -to-power  storage  on a large  scale.  
Re-electrification  will be realized  in H2-capable  gas turbines,  engines  or fuel cells to provide  security  of electricity  supply  in 
periods  of low renewable  energy  supply,  e.g. lack of wind.  

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  6  
  
 
 
 
Power -to-X allows  a smooth  transition  from  the fossil  world  to a carbon -free one with  increasing  emission  reductions  on 
the way:  E-Fuels  can be mixed  with  fossil  fuels  to reduce  the overall  carbon  footprint.  A steady  increase  of sustainable  
content  in the fuels  allows  for a gradual  transition  towards  a full replacement  of fossil  fuels  as a primary  source  of energy  
and raw materials  in transportation,  heating,  industry  and power  generation.  
1.5 Decarbonizing  the world  with  Power -to-X could  begin  today  
The transition  to a carbon -free economy  will need  investments  on a massive  scale.  Electric  cars,  for example,  are only 
carbon  neutral  if the power  fueling  them  comes  from  renewable  sources.  But the main  impediment  to changing  the fleet  
today  is the investment  required  to create  a network  of charging  stations,  and investors  are hard  to attract  because  the 
number  of electric  cars is still small.  Moreover,  long -distance  modes  of transportation,  like heavy -load vehicles,  prove  
more  difficult  to electrify  without  developing  a trolley  system  or overhead  lines,  and ships  or commercial  aircraft  cannot  
run on electricity  alone.  It’s therefore  unlikely  that electromobility  alone  can achieve  a significant  reduction  of greenhouse  
gas emissions  in the coming  years.  
 
Power -to-X can produce  fuels  that have  an immediate  decreasing  effect  on greenhouse  gas emissions:  E-Methane,  e-Meth - 
anol,  e-Diesel,  e-Gasoline  or e-Jet Fuel can be used  within  existing  fuel logistics  infrastructures.  While  some  synthetic  fuels  
used  today  are produced  from  fossil  sources,  making  them  neither  carbon -neutral  nor carbon -free,  synthetic  e-Fuels  from  
Power -to-X processes  are different.  These  e-Fuels  could  also be produced  with  excess  electricity  from  wind  and solar  
farms,  avoiding  the current  temporary  reductions  or shutdowns  of these  sources  when  they generate  too much  power  for 
the grid.  
 
The same  holds  true for the heating  sector:  Existing  infrastructures  such  as gas pipelines,  gas stations  and storage  facilities  
could  be continuously  used.  And again,  it holds  true for power  generation  on a massive  scale.  Hydrogen  is already  suitable  
for re-electrification,  since  modern  gas turbines  can be operated  with  a hydrogen  admixture  in natural  gas up to 100 
percent.  Hydrogen  can therefore  be stored  in gas grids  and re-electrified  with  gas turbines,  using  special  burners  to mini - 
mize  NOx emissions.  
Sector  coupling  and Power -to-X is the way towards  closed  CO2 cycles  and CO2 neutral  infrastructures.  
 
Renewable  energies  can be used  to decarbonize  many  sectors  of the economy.  Together  with  energy -efficient  technolo - 
gies such  as heat  pumps,  electromobility  or combined  heat  and power  plants,  Power -to-X is critical  to reducing  CO2 emis - 
sions.  The synthesis  of green  hydrogen  with  CO2 results  in a largely  closed  CO2 cycle:  It is captured  where  the e-Fuels  are 
produced  and emitted  where  they  are used,  making  these  e-Fuels  largely  carbon -neutral.  
 
Energy  can be stored  in huge  quantities  and for long  periods  of time  within  an already  existing  storage  infrastructure,  
such  as gas grids  (hydrogen  or e-Methane).  Production  peaks  of volatile  renewables  can thus  be stored  for later  use, 
increasing  the security  of supply.  With  Power -to-X solutions  in large  dimensions,  renewable  energies  can also be used  in 
far-off places  where  it’s currently  not viable  because  of nonexistent  grids  or a low requirement  for electrical  energy.  
White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  7  
  
 
 
2. Technology:  Power -to-X and use cases  
 
 
 
 
2.1 Power -to-Hydrogen  
The Siemens  Energy  H2 package  comprises  all systems  to produce  green  hydrogen,  including  a PEM electrolyzer,  compres - 
sion and storage  solutions.  
 
An electrolyzer  uses  electricity  to convert  water  into hydrogen.  There  are three  types  of electrolysis:  
 
• solid  oxide  electrolysis,  which  is under  development  and currently  introduced  on small -scale,  
 
• alkaline  with  high  commercial  maturity  and operational  experience,  and 
 
• proton  exchange  membrane  (PEM)  electrolysis.  
 
With PEM technology, the electrolyzer can be switched on and off without preheating, leading to high flexibility and  
overall system efficiencies even at part loads. It is therefore perfectly suited for the load profiles of renewable power  
sources  like wind  and solar,  which  are volatile  by nature.  
 
Depending  on the application,  green  hydrogen  can then  be purified  and compressed  to levels  needed  for direct  use, stor- 
age or distribution.  
 
As an energy  carrier  and base  chemical,  green  hydrogen  is used  for different  applications:  
 
Electricity:  through  re-electrification:  the high -capacity  storage  of electrical  energy  via green  hydrogen  and re-electrifica - 
tion in gas turbines  (simple  cycle  and combined  cycle),  engines  or fuel cells.  This use is expected  in the medium  to long  
term.  
 
Heat:  the generation  of especially  high -temperature  (process)  heat  by the combustion  of green  hydrogen  or in a com- 
bined  heat  and power  (CHP)  process.  Again,  this use is expected  in the medium  to long  term.  
 
Mobility:  By reducing  the CO2 intensity  of conventional  fuels  and replacing  fossil -fuel-based  hydrogen  in refining  process - 

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  8  
  
 
 
 
es, the mobility  sector  can achieve  around  10 percent  decarbonization  in the short  term.  In the long  term,  100 percent  
decarbonization  would  be possible  with  additional  new infrastructure,  e.g. hydrogen  stations  and fuel cells.  
 
2.2 Power -to-Methanol, Power -to-Hydrocarbons  
Alternative  pathways,  especially  essential  for the decarbonization  of the mobility  sector,  are e-Fuels  synthesized  from  
green  hydrogen  with  CO2,  e-Methane  (CH4,  via the Sabatier  process),  e-Methanol  (CH3OH)  or via the Fischer -Tropsch  
process  electricity -based  jet fuels,  diesel  or waxes  (CXHy). These  synthesis  processes  take place  at elevated  pressure  levels  
(e.g.  methanol  synthesis  at ~80 bar),  are exothermal  and catalytic.  They  are well established  for syngas,  a mixture  of 
hydrogen  and carbon  monoxide,  which  is generated  from  fossil  sources  such  as natural  gas or coal.  Applying  carbon  
dioxide  instead  needs  the conversion  of CO2 to CO in a separate  process  – the reverse  water -gas shift.  For e-Methanol  
different  companies  and institutes  are developing  commercially  available  processes  for the direct  conversion  of hydrogen  
and CO2.  In contrast  to conventional  base -load operations  of such  processes  in the chemical  industry  today,  the production  
of e-Fuels  needs  to be viable  for flexible  load operation.  
 
Together  with  biofuels,  e-Fuels  are highly  relevant  for reducing  CO2 emissions  in the mobility  sector:  While  still using  the 
existing  infrastructures  (distribution,  filling  stations),  about  50 percent  of decarbonization  is expected  in the medium  term  
with  these  largely  carbon -neutral  e-Fuels.  Carbon  will be used  as a carrier  to bring  renewable  energy  as e-Fuels  into to- 
day’s  infrastructure  (state -of-the-art fuel station  systems,  ships,  aviation),  bridging  new and existing  technology.  
 
In that context  e-Methanol  is of special  importance  for the mobility  sector:  For example,  China  today  uses  about  a third  of 
its still fossil -fuel-based  methanol  production  for transportation  (in different  qualities,  M15  to M100).  In Europe,  already  
today  about  3 percent  of methanol  could  be admixed  to fossil  gasoline.  Producing  it from  renewable  energy  sources  would  
directly  avoid  the net CO2 emissions  stemming  from  the conventional  supply  chain.  Via the Methanol -to-Gasoline  (MtG)  
process,  fully sustainable  e-Gasoline  could  be produced.  Other  subsequent  products  are fuel additives  (MTBE),  formalde - 
hyde,  formic  acid or olefins  (MTO).  
 
Power -to-Carbon -based  e-Fuels  open  a way for decarbonizing  the transportation  sector  beyond  the gains  reached  through  
electromobility.  Main  applications  are seen  for trucks,  ships  and in aviation.  
2.3 Power -to-Ammonia  
E-Ammonia  (NH3)  is synthesized  from  green  hydrogen  and nitrogen  derived  from  an air separation  unit.  The underlying  
Haber -Bosch  process  is well established.  E-Ammonia  can be used  as feedstock  for fertilizers  (urea,  ammonia  phosphates),  
other  chemicals  and potentially  synthetic  e-Fuels  (e.g.  for shipping  industry).  With  about  175 kilograms  of hydrogen  per 
ton of ammonia,  it is an excellent  carrier  of hydrogen  to transport  it over  far distances  using  the existing  infrastructure.  
For regaining,  the hydrogen  ammonia  cracking  processes  are under  development.  
White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  9  
  
 
 
3. Down  to business:  economic  feasibility  and 
drivers  
3.1 Production  of e-Fuels  under  best local  conditions  
With  green  hydrogen  positioned  to become  an important  component  of a decarbonized  world,  the demand  for hydrogen  
is already  rising  and set to rise even  more  in the future.  Production  costs  for renewable  energy  have  dramatically  de- 
creased  over  the last decade.  Levelized  cost of electricity  (LCoE)  for onshore  wind  power  has been  shown  to fall below  
US$20/MWh  in the USA and Mexico.  The same  applies  to solar  power  in different  regions.  
 
 
 
 
In addition  to the electricity  generation  cost,  the capacity  factor  (full-load hours)  of the electrolysis  is the dominant  aspect  
for the cost of green  hydrogen,  defining  the capital  efficiency  of the electrolyzer  and synthesis  plant.  With  favorably  LCoE  
of US$20/MWh  and 6,000  full-load hours  availability  for some  locations,  green  hydrogen  generated  from  electrolysis  can 
already  compete  with  hydrogen  from  steam -methane  reforming  or autothermal  reforming  of natural  gas. 

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  10  
  
 
 
 
 
 
The capacity  factor  of electrolysis  is as important  as the levelized  cost of electricity  because  it defines  the capital  efficiency  
of the electrolysis  plant.  Considering  today’s  prices  for hydrogen  at fueling  stations,  even  in some  European  countries,  e.g. 
in Switzerland,  green  hydrogen  would  make  a positive  business  case.  
The specific  investment  cost of electrolysis  will be reduced  by upscaling,  improving  the manufacturing  process  (automa - 
tion)  or substituting  high -cost materials  and using  different  technologies.  
Already  today,  e-Fuels  are competitive  for regions  with  the best conditions  for renewable  energy  sources.  Since  the costs  
for green  hydrogen  also affect  the production  costs  for e-Fuels,  it’s not surprising  that in those  regions  prices  for e-Fuels,  
first of all e-Methanol,  are below  the levels  that can be achieved  for other  sustainable  green  fuels  in the transportation  
sector  today.  Bioethanol  is the benchmark.  
Another  factor  affecting  the production  of carbon -based  e-Fuels  is the cost for CO2 supplies.  CO2 can be captured  from  
existing,  unavoidable  point  sources,  e.g. from  cement  production,  biomass  power  plants  or (future)  system -relevant,  
natural -gas-fired  power  plants.  Using  direct  air capture  (DAC)  to recover  CO2 from  the atmosphere  might  also be an option  
in the future,  especially  for regions  rich in renewable  energy,  but far away  from  industrial  sites.  
 
3.2 Power -to-X can contribute  to grid balancing  
Electrolysis  could  act as a fast-negative  energy  balancing  unit in the event  the grid is overloaded  from  renewable  energy  
sources  (RES).  Large  overcapacities  of RES already  exist  today.  Storing  the surplus  electrical  energy  of those  sources  in 
chemical  form  may become  more  lucrative  than  curtailing  the capacity  of renewables  in peak  production  times.  Green  
hydrogen  and its subsequent  fuels  derived  from  RES are expected  to become  the backbone  of future,  largely  decarbonized  
power  generation,  because  chemically  stored  electrical  energy  is the only way to overcome  lacking  renewable  sources  or 
times  where  there  is little  or no wind  or sun. 
 
3.3 E-Fuels  outperform  biomass -based  fuels  
E-Fuels  have  a carbon  footprint  that is about  90 percent  lower  than  that of fossil  fuels.  Against  this background,  e-Fuels  
like e-Methanol  have  the potential  to outperform  biofuels  in terms  of production  costs  and CO2 avoidance  costs.  Their  
overall  benefits  in comparison  to biomass -based  fuels  and chemicals  are numerous:  Overall  greenhouse  gas emissions  of 
e-Fuels  are equal  to or lower  than  those  of biomass -based  fuels,  and the same  applies  for land use and needs  for water.  
The conflict  between  food  and fuel is nonexistent  in e-Fuels,  and their  global  availability  is potentially  high  in many  re- 
gions  worldwide.  

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  11  
  
 
 
 
 
 
3.4 Regulatory  inducements  are still needed  
Although  investment  costs  for Power -to-X will decrease  during  the next  years  according  to technology  development,  
regulation  and political  support  are needed  to push  the introduction  of e-Fuels.  
 
According  to the most  recent  regulatory  framework,  the second  European  Renewable  Energy  Directive  (RED  II), which  has 
to be converted  into national  laws  by June  2021,  the minimal  share  of renewable  energy  sources  in fuels  has to grow  from  
5 percent  today  to 14 percent  in 2030.  About  a quarter  is expected  to come  from  direct  electrification  (electromobility).  
Additional  biomass -based  fuels  will only be allowed  from  nonfood  relevant  sources  (2nd  generation)  and must  contribute  
a minimum  3.5 percent.  To reach  the European  targets  additional  advanced  fuels  based  on renewable  electrical  energy  
have  to be increasingly  applied  up to three -digit  petajoule  levels.  To achieve  this, e-Fuels  will also have  to be imported  
from  outside  Europe,  which  has to be considered  by the regulatory  bodies.  The German  BImSchV38  decree  already  imple - 
mented  advanced  fuels  which  are defined  as fuels  produced  from  captured  CO2 with  the condition  to use renewable  
energy  for their  production.  Aside  from  taking  CO2 from  the air or biomass  conversion,  CO2 can also be sourced  from  
unavoidable  emissions  from  industries  and power  plants.  
 
From  the different  use cases,  such  as direct  use of green  hydrogen  for trucks  or as substitute  for natural  gas or e-Fuels  for 
aviation,  Siemens  Energy  is expecting  a market  potential  in the range  of some  billion  euros  per year.

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  12  
  
 
 
4. Hand  in hand:  solutions  provided  by Siemens  
Energy  
Siemens  Energy  is one of the world’s  leading  technology  companies  and one-stop solution  providers.  Working  hand  in 
hand  with  its clients  to develop  and provide  technologically  mature  solutions  that present  a business  case,  Siemens  Energy  
can look back  on a long  and successful  experience  in plant  construction  as well as in development,  production,  operation  
and service  of diverse  products  of power  generation;  the same  goes  for energy  transmission,  electrical  engineering,  auto - 
mation  technology,  communication  and automotive  technology  ‒ based  on its competence  and experience.  
 
Siemens  Energy  can offer  several  Power -to-X plant  modules  and overall  solutions  for different  use cases.  To cater  to each  
customer  according  to need,  Siemens  Energy  is following  a modular  structured  approach:  modules  and packages  for 
Power -to-X applications  as well as the Engineering,  Procurement  and Construction  (EPC)  of an overall  Power -to-X plant  as 
a turnkey  package.  
 
Models  and packages  offered  by Siemens  Energy  follow  the process  steps:  
 
Power -to-X system  design  package:  this offering  helps  customers  to gain transparency  on options  and opportunities  
related  to their  Power -to-X solution  at an early  decision  stage.  
 
Renewable  power  package:  offers  a renewable  energy  supply,  including  grid connection  or as a captive  power  supply  for 
the Power -to-X plant.  Wind  turbines  onshore  and offshore  as well as complete  wind  parks  and renewable  energy  solutions.  
 
H2 package:  offers  electrolyzer,  hydrogen  compression  and intermediate  storage.  
 
Re-electrification  package:  Designed  to the needs  of the client,  this package  offers  long -term  hydrogen  storage,  a hydro - 
gen gas turbine/combined  cycle  power  plant,  reciprocating  engine,  fuel cell or battery  energy  storage  system.  
 
E-Fuel  synthesis  package:  Developed  and/or  supplied  together  with  partners,  this package  includes  compression  and 
synthesis.  
 
Power -to-X turnkey package: the full turnkey solution for any of the packages or applications as shown below. 100%  
hydrogen compatible well before 2030, and therefore, e -Ammonia may also be a useful hydrogen carrier for heating,  
industrial  use, and combustion  power  systems.  
White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  13 1 The product name was changed from Silyzer 300 to  Elyzer P -300.  
It is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH & Co. KG or its affiliates 
registered in one or more countries.   
1  
 
 
 
 
 
4.1 Siemens  Energy  H2 package  
The Siemens Energy hydrogen generation plant is a facility that integrates key technologies to produce green hydrogen.  This 
innovative solution will serve, connect, transform and reduce carbon emissions in multiple industries. It is the basic  module  
of the Siemens  Energy  Power -to-X plant  solutions.  
 
Siemens  Energy  is providing  the full EPC for this package,  comprising  of: 
 
• electrical  equipment  (transformer,  switchgear,  rectifier,  etc.),  
 
• treatment  and deionization  of water  as needed,  
 
• PEM electrolyzer  and its connection  to the power  source  (see following  section),  
 
• cleaning  of green  hydrogen,  e.g. gas conditioning  according  to the needs  of the downstream  application,  
 
• gas storage,  and 
 
• compression  of green  hydrogen  with  reciprocating  or turbocompressors,  depending  on final  pressure  level  and mass  
flow.  
 
Due to its low molecular  weight  and its chemical  characteristics,  the effective  and safe handling  of hydrogen  needs  specif - 
ic solutions,  products  and know -how.  Gases  containing  hydrogen  require  a limitation  of yield  strength  and hardness  
according  to API 617.  Of course,  this is part of the Siemens  Energy  designs.  

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  14 1 The product name was changed from Silyzer 300 to  Elyzer P -300.  
It is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH & Co. KG or its affiliates 
registered in one or more countries.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
Electrolysis  
In order  to produce  green  hydrogen,  Siemens  Energy  has developed  the Elyzer1 portfolio  family:  an innovative  electrolysis  
system  based  on PEM technology.  PEM takes  its name  from  the proton  exchange  membrane,  which  is permeable  to pro- 
tons  (H+)  but tight  for gases  and electrons.  In other  words,  this kind of membrane  acts as electrical  isolator  between  
anode  and cathode  side as well as physical  separator,  preventing  hydrogen  and oxygen  from  remixing.  Compared  to 
alkaline  electrolysis,  PEM technology  is ideal  for working  with  fluctuating  wind  and solar  power  sources,  as it allows  a 
highly  dynamic  mode  of operation  and can be rapidly  turned  on and off without  preheating.  This method  allows  optimum  
efficiency  at high  power  densities  and good  product  gas quality  even  at partial  loads.  The operation  is low-maintenance  
and reliable  without  the use of chemicals  or foreign  substances.  
 
Advantages  of industry -grade  PEM technology  in brief:  
 
• delivers  pure  hydrogen  and oxygen  of the highest  quality,  free of hazardous  substances,  
 
• provides  flexibility  with  a very fast start -up time  and allowing  rapid  load changes  
 
• reliable  operation  with  low maintenance  requirements  
 
• compact  design  comes  along  with  low space  requirements.  
 
All safety  aspects  in the production  and handling  of hydrogen  are implemented  through  permanent  detection  systems  and 
hoods.  
 
Service  packages  are offered  according  to the individual  customer’s  requirements:  
 
• basic:  support  and troubleshooting  on demand,'  
 
• advanced:  preventive  maintenance,  remote  service,  condition  monitoring,  24/7  hotline  and more,  
 
• pro: performance -based  maintenance  contracting.  

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  15 1 The product name was changed from Silyzer 300 to  Elyzer P -300.  
It is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH & Co. KG or its affiliates 
registered in one or more countries.   
  
 
 
 
Since  PEM electrolysis  technology  and its most  prominent  representative,  the Elyzer1, is a relatively  young  technology,  
additional  improvements  to efficiency  and investment  cost reductions  are expected.  A strong  increase  in production  
capacities  over  the next  decade  will also see further  advancements  and savings.  After  the successful  introduction  of the 
Elyzer  P-3001, the next  step will be a PEM model  in the range  above  100 megawatts.  In parallel  the next  generation  of 
more  economic  cells  are under  development.  
 
Elyzer  P-3001 
This latest,  most  powerful  product  line in the double -digit  megawatt  range  allows  for the best scaling  to minimize  overall  
investment  costs  in large -scale  industrial  electrolysis  plants.  Thanks  to high  plant  efficiency  and availability,  the optimized  
solution  results  match  very low hydrogen  production  costs.  Further  indicators:  17.5  MWel  /335  kg/hour  per full module  
array  (24 modules),  75 percent  system  efficiency  (HHV).  
 
Compression  and storage  
Compressors  are a vital component  of most  of the Power -to-X plants:  
 
• Power -to-Hydrogen:  Compressors  compress  hydrogen  for storage  or refueling  to pressures  as high  as 700 bara.  
 
• Power -to-Fuels:  Compressors  compress  hydrogen  or the mixture  of hydrogen  and CO2 to approximately  70 bara  for 
subsequent  synthesis  of methanol.  
 
• Power -to-Ammonia:  Compressors  compress  hydrogen  or the mixture  of hydrogen  and nitrogen  to approximately  300 
bara  for subsequent  synthesis  of ammonia.  
 
For all these  cases,  Siemens  Energy  offers  a broad  spectrum  of compressors  designed  to fit customer  specifications.  Com - 
pression  solutions  can be supplied  in a variety  of configurations  from  single -shaft  barrel  to reciprocating  compressors.  
Siemens  Energy  has a long  experience  with  compressors  for gases  containing  hydrogen,  such  as synthesis  gases  to pro- 
duce  ammonia,  hydrocarbons  and methanol  as well as hydrogen -rich gases.  Steam  turbines,  engines  or electrical  motors  
are used  as drives.  
 
References  in the field  of sustainable  hydrogen  production  
With  three  Silyzer  200 systems,  the Energiepark  Mainz  was the world’s  largest  PEM electrolysis  plant  in 2015.  It uses  excess  
energy  from  renewable  sources  (wind)  to split water  into oxygen  and hydrogen.  The regeneratively  produced  hydrogen  is 
fed into the gas network  on site or delivered  to the surrounding  industry  and hydrogen  filling  stations  via tankers.  The 
entire  electrolysis  plant,  including  the grid connection  and control  system,  was supplied  by Siemens  Energy.  
 
The EU-funded  lighthouse  project  “H2FUTURE  - hydrogen  meeting  future  needs  of low carbon  manufacturing  value  chains”  
brings  together  energy  suppliers  (Verbund,  APG),  the steel  industry  (Voestalpine),  technology  providers  (Siemens  Energy)  
and research  partners  (K1-MET;  TNO)  to jointly  develop  solutions  for the energy  future.  With  an output  of 6 megawatts  and 
a production  capacity  of 1,200  cubic  meters  of hydrogen  per hour,  H2FUTURE  was the world’s  largest  hydrogen  pilot  plant  
in 2019  in which  green  hydrogen  is produced  from  renewable  sources  using  PEM electrolysis  technology  with  the Elyzer  P-
3001. The PEM electrolysis plant started operation in November 2019 at the largest steel production site of the Voestalpine  
Group in Linz, Austria. The project aims to demonstrate that an industrially integrated PEM electrolysis plant is capable of  
producing  green  hydrogen  and providing  grid services  at the same  time.  
 
4.2 Siemens  Energy  re-electrification  package  
Even  though  hydrogen  is considered  one of the most  promising  technologies  in the large -scale  integration  of renewable  
energy,  only a small  percentage  of hydrogen  is currently  being  used  in the energy  sector.  Yet the more  electricity  is gener - 
ated  from  fluctuating  renewable  sources  such  as sun and wind,  and the less reliance  there  is on conventional  power  
utilities,  the more  urgent  becomes  the need  to change  energy  systems.  After  all, power  must  also be available  when  sun 
and wind  are scarce.  This requires  storing  energy,  including  over  extended  periods  of time.  Green  hydrogen  plays  a key 
role in this regard,  as an energy  source  as well as a storage  medium.  Infrastructure  suitable  for large -scale  storage  includes  
gas grids,  which  have  tremendous  storage  potential.  The re-electrification  of stored  green  hydrogen  offers  the advantage  
of using  decarbonized  renewable  electrical  energy  whenever  required.  
White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  16  
  
 
 
 
 
The primary source is green hydrogen generated in the H2 package from Siemens Energy, including storage. Re -electrifica - tion 
of the green  hydrogen  is done  either  by combustion,  preferably  in an adapted  gas turbine  in combined  cycle  mode,  in a 
reciprocating  engine  or in fuel cells to generate  electrical  energy.  This arrangement  can also be combined  and/or  extend - ed 
with  battery  energy  storage  (BES)  in a hybrid  generation  unit to further  increase  flexibility.  
 
Siemens  Energy  is providing  the full EPC for this re-electrification  package,  comprising:  
 
• fuel system  (incl.  admixing  other  fossil  fuels  or steam,  where  needed),  
 
• combined  heat  and power  (CHP)  plant  for power  and district/process  heat  production  
 
• reciprocating  engine,  
 
• fuel cell (supplied  by partner),  
 
• BES in case of a hybrid  system,  and 
 
• grid connection.  
 
4.2.1  Gas turbines  
Gas turbines  make  up a core component  of Siemens’  history.  In 1949,  Siemens  started  its first engine,  the VM1.  Based  on 
these  70 years  of experience  in designing  and manufacturing  gas turbines,  Siemens  Energy  today  provides  a wide  portfolio  
of products  that can be operated  with  a mix of hydrogen  and natural  gas or with  pure  hydrogen.  
 
Already  natural -gas-fired  gas turbine  power  generation  units  boast  a much  higher  efficiency  level  and lower  CO2 emissions  
than  coal-fired  plants.  By mixing  green  hydrogen  together  with  natural  gas or even  substituting  natural  gas altogether,  
these  CO2 emissions  can be further  reduced  until,  ultimately,  they  reach  zero.  Most  Siemens  gas turbines  are already  
capable  to burn  between  30 and 100%  of H2, depending  on the frame  type.  Continuous  development  and options  for 
upgrades  will make  them  ready  for 100%  H2 before  2030,  according  to its availability  in a sustainable  form.  

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  17  
  
 
 
 
 
 
References  for re-electrification  packages  
In May 2020,  with  the HYFLEXPOWER  project,  a consortium  made  up of Siemens  Energy,  Engie  Solutions,  Centrax,  Arttic,  
German  Aerospace  Center  (DLR)  and the University  College  London,  University  of Duisburg -Essen,  Lund  University  and 
National  Technical  University  of Athens  are implementing  a project  funded  by the European  Commission  under  the Hori- 
zon 2020  Framework  Program  for Research  and Innovation  (Grant  Agreement  884229).  The implementation  of this proj- 
ect, the world's  very first industrial -scale  Power -to-hydrogen -to-power  demonstrator  with  an advanced  hydrogen  turbine,  
will be launched  at Smurfit  Kappa  PRF’s  site - a company  specialized  in manufacturing  recycled  paper  - in Saillat -sur-Vi- 
enne,  France.  The purpose  of this project  is to prove  that hydrogen  can be produced  and stored  from  renewable  electricity  
and then  mixed  with  the natural  gas currently  used  with  combined  heat  and power  plants.  For this an existing  Siemens  
SGT-400 industrial  gas turbine  will be upgraded  to convert  stored  hydrogen  into electricity  and thermal  energy,  with  the 
aim of achieving  100%  hydrogen  combustion  by 2023.  
 

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  18  
  
 
 
4.2.2  Reciprocating  engines/fuel  cells  
Besides  the installation  of a gas turbine  for large -scale  re-electrification,  green  hydrogen  can also be used  for gas engines  
(on the thermal  side)  or fuel cells (on the chemical  side).  The products  available  are either  from  Siemens  Energy  branches  
or supplied  by our solution  partners.  Siemens  Energy  offers  these  products  fully engineered  and optimized  for the specific  
use case.  
 
4.3 Siemens  Energy  e-Fuel package  
Another  way green  hydrogen  can contribute  to decarbonization  is through  the synthesis  of carbon -based  e-Fuels  from  
green  hydrogen.  In this way,  even  sectors  with  high  fuel requirements,  such  as the aviation  and shipping  industries,  could  
be decarbonized  to a large  extent.  A prominent  use case  is e-Methanol  for transportation.  Other  applications  include  
e-Methane  or e-Ammonia.  
 
The primary  source  is green  hydrogen  generated  in the H2 package  from  Siemens  Energy.  Hydrogen  is then  further  pro- 
cessed  through,  for instance,  methanol  synthesis  or the Fischer -Tropsch  process.  The CO2 can be gained  from  inevitable  
emissions,  for instance  from  cement  production,  glass  or steel.  Alternatively,  CO2 could  also prospectively  be extracted  
from  the atmosphere  (direct  air capture  ‒ DAC).  
 
 
 
For e-Ammonia  the system  includes  the nitrogen  supply,  for instance  by a cryogenic  air separation  unit.  
Siemens  Energy  together  with  partners  is providing  the full EPC for this package,  comprising:  
Compression  and pumping  of involved  media  
Carbon  capture,  oxyfuel  and direct  air capture  with  partners;  

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  19  
  
 
 
 
Synthesis  processes  with  partners  – direct  from  CO2 and H2 without  the need  for reverse  water -gas shift.  
 
4.3.1  CO2  capture  
Carbon capture is expected to play a vital role in Power -to-X to produce green fuels from electrolysis. To reduce the foot - print 
of e-Fuels compared to fossil fuels, the origin of the CO2 plays a decisive role. In general, three categories of origins  contribute  
to a reduced  carbon  footprint  of the fuel:  
 
• CO2 from  biogenic  sources,  such  as biomass,  
 
• CO2 from  unavoidable  emissions,  mainly  industrial  emissions  such  as from  cement  plants,  
 
• CO2 from  the atmosphere  through  direct  air capture  (see below).  
 
Alternatively,  carbon  dioxide  can be produced  through  combustion  in oxyfuel  boilers  with  hydrocarbons  from  various  
sources.  
 
Direct  air capture  (DAC):  The atmosphere  contains  only a very low concentration  of around  400 ppm  CO2,  but the increase  
of this concentration  is considered  to be the trigger  for global  warming.  There  are currently  a few technological  develop - 
ments  being  piloted  to extract  CO2 from  the atmosphere  through  adsorption,  though  costs  are still significantly  higher  
than  with  alternatives  from  other  sources.  
References  for Methanol  synthesis  
For commercial  plants  Siemens  Energy  is collaborating  with  companies  well experienced  in CO2/H2 -based  methanol  syn- 
thesis  using  established  reactor  concepts.  In November  2020,  Siemens  Energy,  alongside  several  international  companies,  
announced  it is developing  and implementing  Haru  Oni, the world’s  first integrated  and commercial  large -scale  plant  for 
the production  of climate  neutral  e-Fuel in Chile.  In the pilot  phase,  e-Methanol  production  will initially  reach  around  
750.000  liters  per year by 2022.  Part of the e-Methanol  will be converted  to e-Gasoline  (130.000  liters  per year).  In two 
steps,  capacity  is planned  to be increased  to 55 million  liters  e-Gasoline  per year by 2024  and to over  550 million  liters  per 
year by 2026.  

White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  20 1 The product name was changed from Silyzer 300 to  Elyzer P -300.  
It is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH & Co. KG or its affiliates 
registered in one or more countries.   
  
References  for Ammonia  synthesis  
Ammonia  synthesis  from  hydrogen  and nitrogen  applying  the Haber -Bosch  process  has been  well established  for decades.  
Here,  Siemens  Energy  would  partner  with  an experienced  supplier  in the frame  of EPC delivery.  This also includes  the 
nitrogen  supply.  
In the context  of an R&D project  with  British  academia,  Siemens  Energy  gained  experience  in research,  setting  up and 
operating  a small,  but fully complete  Power -to-Ammonia  plant  working  in dynamic  mode.  This includes  re-electrification  in 
a reciprocating  spark -ignition  engine.  
 
4.4 Digital  solutions  and Power -to-X system  design  package  
Digitalization,  currently  one of the most  important  topics  in the energy  industry  in general,  is an important  component  for 
the realization  of Power -to-X along  the whole  value  chain.  On the one hand,  digital  investments  are triggered  by market  
requirements,  such  as growing  shares  of renewables  in the electricity  grid which  need  to be integrated  in the current  
energy  mix and in the same  time  the grid stability  must  be given.  
 
 
On the other  hand,  new technical  solutions  for power  plant  equipment  also drive  digitalization.  Here  can it be helpful  to 
use Energy  System  Design.  It is an integration  method  that connects  all processes  and products  to complete  the end-to- 
end value  chain  for the customer.  
Energy  system  design  and solutions  are a core element  of digital  services  that help customers  to gain transparency  on 
options  and opportunities  at an early  decision  stage.  With  our Power -to-X system  design  package  Siemens  Energy  provides  
deep  know -how  and consulting  service  based  on for energy  system  design  in development  of decarbonization  roadmaps  & 
solutions  for customers  across  wide  range  of industries,  mobility  and energy  production.  
Siemens  Energy  engineering  competences  & dedicated  tools  for energy  system  design,  optimization  and simulations  will 
be leveraged  to identify  optimal  techno -economic  recommendations  for solutions.  
Having  our customers’  specific  needs  at the core from  the earliest  project  stage,  is essentially.  Therefore  also the services  
are continuously  developed  over  the project  life span  to enhance  availability,  operations,  maintenance  cycles,  perfor - 
mance  and commercial  viability  of the most  different  use cases.  
Siemens  Energy  is a world  market  leader  for power  plant  automation  as well as for factory  and industrial  automation.  
Several  systems  are available  to control  processes  in the optimum  way,  amongst  them  the SIMATIC  product  portfolio,  SPPA  
products  or SICAM.  Since  electrolysis  and,  more  generally,  Power -to-Gas and Power -to-Liquids  are related  to chemical  
processes,  Siemens  Energy  has already  implemented  a proven  process  control  system.  Experiences  gained  from  pilot  and 
demonstration  plants  can be optimally  translated  to upscaled  commercial  plants.  This has already  been  done  for the 
Elyzer1 products  and the 6-megawatt  Power -to-Methane  plant  in Werlte,  Germany,  which  produces  e-Methane  for gas-fu- 
eled cars.  In addition  to diagnostics,  the remote  access  automation  system  is used  to optimize  the overall  concept.  Future  
approaches  to digitalization  will support  this in the context  of available  renewable  energy  sources  and different  products.  
 
Siemens  Energy  has already  implemented  predictive  controls  in comparable  applications.  By combining  weather  forecast  
information  with  optical  information  of upcoming  cloud  coverage,  detailed  forecast  for PV power  generation  has been  
made  possible.  This combination  of information  is key to optimize  performance  of an overall  Power -to-X process.  Using  
digital  modeling  in both  the design  and the engineering  phase  (known  as the digital  twin)  allows  (for example  an optimal  
sizing  of the assets)  an optimization  in the digital  world  before  installing  anything  on site. 
White  paper  l Power -to-X 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  21 1 The product name was changed from Silyzer 300 to  Elyzer P -300.  
It is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH & Co. KG or its affiliates 
registered in one or more countries.   
  
 
 
5. The power  of now:  The hydrogen  economy  
starts  today  
Worldwide  decarbonization  of the overall  energy  systems  is urgently  needed  to mitigate  global  warming.  Power  from  
renewables  will become  the backbone  of a green  energy  supply  through  sector  coupling.  The different  pathways  of Pow- 
er-to-X will enable  this development  which  can start  immediately  since  the infrastructure  for transport,  distribution  and 
final  use of e-Fuels  already  exists  in principle.  
 
The outlook  is even  brighter.  Thanks  to Power -to-X, largely  carbon -neutral  or even  carbon -free mobility  based  on e-Fuels  
and/or  green  hydrogen  will be the norm,  not the exception.  
 
Obligations  to increasingly  apply  e-Fuels  in the mobility  sector  like those  already  implemented  for biomass -based  fuels,  
together  with  other  measures  like increasing  penalties  for CO2 emissions,  would  promote  the introduction  of Power -to-X. 
And compared  to other  sustainable  energy  carriers,  mostly  biomass -based  fuels,  e-Fuels  are already  competitive.  
 
Siemens  Energy  pushes  Power -to-X with  its different  variants.  For Power -to-Heat,  a high -temperature  heat  pump  has been  
developed.  Siemens  Energy  is deeply  engaged  in promoting  and developing  projects  and technologies  for the production  
of green  hydrogen  and subsequent  products.  With  its Elyzer1 portfolio,  Siemens  Energy  is leading  PEM-based  water  elec- 
trolysis,  which  allows  for a highly  flexible  load operation  and is, thus,  predestined  for combination  with  volatile  renewable  
energy  sources.  Wind  generators,  compressor  solutions,  gas turbines  and combined  cycle  power  plants  for reelectrifcation  
of green  hydrogen  are all part of the portfolio,  as well as the overall  business  solutions  to realize  small  to large -scale  Power -
to-X plants.  
 
Hand  in hand  with  our clients  and partners,  Siemens  Energy  is ready  to go! 
 
White  paper  l Power -to-X 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published  by 
 
Siemens  Energy  Global  GmbH  & Co. KG 
Otto -Hahn -Ring  6 
81739  München6,  Germany  
 
Siemens  Energy,  Inc. 
15375  Memorial  Drive,  Suite  700 
Houston, Texas  77079,  USA 
For more  information,  please  contact:  
support.energy@siemens -energy.com  
Editors:  
Katrin  Mauthner,  Heike  Graf,  Ute Rohr  
Authors:  
Armin  Schnettler,  Volkmar  Pflug,  Erik Zindel,  Gerhard  Zimmermann,  Omar  Rubio  Olvera,  Ireneusz  Pyc, Christian  Trulley  
Supervisory  editing:  
Primafila  AG, Zurich,  Switzerland  
Graphics:  
independent  Medien -Design,  Munich,  Germany  
Layout:  
Rainer  Schubert,  Fürth,  Germany  
Siemens  Energy  is one of the world’s  leading  energy  technology  companies.  The company  works  with  its customers  and partners  on energy  
systems  for the future,  thus  supporting  the transition  to a more  sustainable  world.  With  its portfolio  of products,  solutions  and services,  Siemens  
Energy  covers  almost  the entire  energy  value  chain  – from  power  generation  and transmission  to storage.  The portfolio  includes  conventional  and 
renewable  energy  technology,  such  as gas and steam  turbines,  hybrid  power  plants  operated  with  hydrogen,  and power  generators  and 
transformers.  More  than  50 percent  of the portfolio  has already  been  decarbonized.  A majority  stake  in the listed  company  Siemens  Gamesa  
Renewable  Energy  (SGRE)  makes  Siemens  Energy  a global  market  leader  for renewable  energies.  An estimated  one-sixth  of the electricity  
generated  worldwide  is based  on technologies  from  Siemens  Energy.  Siemens  Energy  employs  more  than  90,000  people  worldwide  in more  than  
90 countries  and generated  revenue  of around  €27.5  billion  in fiscal  year 2020.  www.siemens -energy.com  
 
 
 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  22 
 
White  paper  l Power -to-X 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© Siemens  Energy,  2021  
Siemens  Energy  is a registered  trademark  licensed  by Siemens  AG. 
Disclaimer  
Subject  to changes  and errors.  The information  given  in this document  only  contains  general  descriptions  and/or  performance  features  which  may 
not always  specifically  reflect  those  described,  or which  may  undergo  modification  in the course  of fur-ther development  of the products.  The 
requested  performance  features  are binding  only  when  they  are expressly  agreed  upon  in the concluded  contract.  All product  designations  may be 
trademarks  or product  names  of Siemens  Energy  Global  GmbH  & Co. KG or other  companies  whose  use by third  parties  for their  own  purposes  
could  violate  the rights  of the owners.  
All product  designations  may be trademarks  or product  names  of Siemens  Energy  Global  GmbH  & Co. KG or other  companies  whose  use by third  
parties  for their  own  purposes  could  violate  the rights  of the owners.  
 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  23 