Safety studies are a requirement on virtually every project 
and facility. Process Hazard Analysis (PHAs) are part of most 
operators’ process safety programs and project requirements 
and are a best practice throughout the world as a cornerstone 
of process safety, even when not mandated by law.
Hazards identification, analysis, and risk assessments are 
performed throughout a facility’s lifecycle, from conceptual 
design, FEED (Front End Engineering Design), detailed 
design, and fabrication/construction/commissioning through 
operation. 
A key component of regulatory compliance PHAs address:
•  Hazards of the process, initiating events, consequences, and 
safeguards
• Human factors
• Previous incidents
• Facility siting
•  Engineering and administrative controls and their 
interrelationship
• Management of Change (MOC) issues 
•  Qualitative evaluation of a range of possible safety and 
health effects on all employees in the workplacePHAs are performed on individual processes (such as 
hydrocracker, cat cracker, crude unit, etc.) and typically 
include the processing or handling of flammables, toxic, 
combustibles, and other highly hazardous chemicals or 
applications.
Siemens Energy Solutions 
Our process safety consultants identify hazards through 
experience with pressure relief analysis, Management of 
Change consulting, mechanical integrity work, and PHA 
facilitation. On top of that, we have an extensive background 
of facilities, companies, and industries to facilitate process 
hazard analyses. This breadth of knowledge allows the 
facilitators to gain insight into new approaches and best 
practices for PHA facilitation.
Value to Customer
A process hazard analysis performed results in superior 
PHA documentation.  Our customers receive an integrated 
solution to resolve process hazard analysis findings by 
implementing a wide range of process safety management 
best practices. Incorporating pressure relief analysis, 
mechanical integrity, Management of Change, layer of 
protection analysis, or safety integrity level analysis results in 
a holistic resolution to even your most complicated issues.
siemens-energy.comProcess Hazard  
and Risk  
Assessment
Published by
Siemens Energy  
Electrification, Automation, Digitalization (EAD)  
Process & Safety Consulting  
USA Headquarters
1200 W Sam Houston Pkwy North  
Houston, TX 77043, USA
Asia Pacific: Singapore  
Canada  
Europe: Belgium and Romania  
Middle East: KSA and UAE
info.ogconsulting.energy@siemens-energy.com
Siemens Energy Customer Software Support Portal
cep.siemens-energy.com
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains 
general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically 
reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract .
© 2024 Siemens EnergyAlleviate time and expertise requirements from your plant 
engineers , giving them the time and attention they need to 
complete the work they are uniquely qualified to perform.
Additional insight and best practices gained from industry 
experience.  Our PHA facilitators are trained in asking the 
right questions and integrating different (and sometimes 
conflicting) perspectives from multiple team members during 
a PHA, potentially reducing time to resolve complex issues 
and streamline action items.
Services
• Process Hazard Analysis facilitation and/or Scribe
 • P&IDs field verification
 • Preparatory services
 • Reporting
 • Training
• PHA Revalidation
• HAZOP (Hazard and Operability) Analysis
• What-if/Checklist reviews
• LOPA (Layers of Protection) Analysis
• SIL (Safety Integrity Level) Verification
• Action items resolution for PHA concerns
•  Gap closure of Process Safety Information (PSI) 
documentation
• Other engineering services 