Pressure relief incidents come at an enormous cost – not only 
to your business, but to workers and nearby communities. 
OSHA, EPA, and other regulatory bodies make it even 
more critical that your plant complies with existing safety 
standards. Corporate safety initiatives, acquisitions, or capital 
projects can make it difficult to stay on top of the changes in 
your plant and how each change may impact your relief and 
disposal system. On top of that, our project experience shows 
that 40% of installed relief devices may have a deficiency.
Siemens Energy Solutions 
We have been helping customers succeed in designing, 
evaluating, and revalidating plant overpressure systems 
for over 20 years.  Our consultants have developed and 
delivered leading methodologies and best practices adopted 
as corporate standards by various operating companies 
and validated by OSHA. Our approach examines the critical 
relationships between equipment and relief devices, 
calculating the required relief rates and relief capacity, 
and documenting deviations from industry standards and 
practices.Based on your requirements, we can also develop prioritized 
action plans including risk assessments, backup calculations, 
and order-of-magnitude cost estimates, if modifications are 
required.
With more than 4,000 studies conducted worldwide, we offer 
a best-in-class approach, expertise, and powerful software to 
analyze, design, document, and manage your relief systems. 
And because experience has shown us what to look for, we 
perform plant-wide audits quicker and more efficiently, with 
minimal disruption to your operations.
Value to Customer
• Improved process safety
•  Up-to-date relief system documentation in a central 
database — easily accessible and to maintain
•  Peace of mind knowing that your relief system has been 
thoroughly reviewed
•  Reduced risk of loss of life, downtime, lost production, or 
lost profit
• Increased efficiency in executing MOCs, HAZOPs, or PHAs
• Potential reduction in insurance or maintenance cost
siemens-energy.comRelief & Disposal  
System
Trusted advisor for your last line of protection
Published by
Siemens Energy  
Electrification, Automation, Digitalization (EAD)  
Process & Safety Consulting  
USA Headquarters
1200 W Sam Houston Pkwy North  
Houston, TX 77043, USA
Asia Pacific: Singapore  
Canada  
Europe: Belgium and Romania  
Middle East: KSA and UAE
info.ogconsulting.energy@siemens-energy.com
Siemens Energy Customer Software Support Portal
cep.siemens-energy.com
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains 
general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically 
reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract .
© 2024 Siemens EnergyServices
•  Pressure Relief Analysis, verifying overpressure protection  
of process equipment and adequacy of existing pressure 
relief devices
•  Flare/vent system analysis of closed (i.e. flare) and 
atmospheric disposal system analysis
• Pressure relief valve and flare design verification
•  Engineering analysis of pressure relief valve operation 
stability
• Depressuring modeling
• Quantitative Risk Analysis (QRA) on flare systems
•  Disposal system mitigation planning and atmospheric  
relief devices tie-in to closed disposal system mitigation
• Gas dispersion modeling
• Flare radiation modeling
• Resolution for PHA concerns related to relief/flare issues
• Gap closure for relief device documentation
•  Develop heat and material balance and process basis of 
process units
• Dynamic simulations of column and flare systems
• Audit pressure relief systems management processes
• Process unit throughput analysis
•  Development and critical review of pressure relief  
analysis practices