As part of the comprehensive port-  
folio of Customer Service activities, 
Siemens can offer a Service Exchange 
program for our current and some  
selected mature gas turbine ranges.
What do we offer?
When you are up against tight produc -
tion schedules and have to get the  
optimum performance from your  
assets, the last thing you need is a 
long outage period while your gas  
turbine is undergoing maintenance. 
Let us help reduce that pressure and 
minimize on-site delays, by providing 
you with a factory built  service exchange core or major  
sub-assembly. 
Our Service Exchange units are built  
to current Siemens design standards,  
incorporating latest technical develop -
ments and optionally fully tested to  
produce power within 3% of the  
turbine’s original guaranteed output 
and retained emission levels. The  
exchange unit is configured to match 
your installation backed up with a  
standard Siemens’ 12 month factory 
limited warranty.
We hold an exchange fleet which,  
providing we have been given  sufficient advance notice, can be 
made ready for rapid dispatch  
following site configuration.  
We can provide:
•  Exchange options to help maximise 
operational uptime 
•  Unrivalled experience & expertise  
in your product
•  Unique access to the latest Siemens’ 
technology 
•  Total commitment to supporting 
our products. 
•  Unit configuration tailored to your 
installation 
Customer benefits can include:
•  Minimized downtime during  
Overhaul
•  No capital investment in a spare 
Gas Generator
•  Reduced risk of unavailability of 
spare parts as the turbines mature
•  OEM parts and services backed by  
Siemens limited warranties
•  Access to and application of the  
latest Siemens’ technologies and 
product developments
•  Global network of Siemens  
approved service support centersService Exchange 
for SGT-750  
Gas Turbine
Siemens is a world leader in the manufacture 
of industrial gas turbines, for power  
generation and mechanical drive applications.
energy.siemens.comPublished by and copyright © 2016: Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery, Finspong, Sweden. All rights 
reserved. Trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of Siemens AG, its affiliates, or 
their respective owners. Subject to change without prior notice. The information in this document 
contains general descriptions of the technical options available, which may not apply in all cases. The 
required technical options should therefore be specified in the contract.For more 
information, 
scan the QR 
code