Maximizing availability
Short term lease availability of gas generators, power 
turbines, major assemblies or even complete gas turbine 
packages can be a major benefit, and in some cases essential to our customers.
We have developed a lease pool of equipment to 
guarantee that items required for lease are available on the shortest possible lead times. We offer a fast and easy 
solution to both short and long term operational 
scenarios for all our ranges of turbine packages, core engines and major assemblies.
Siemens Energy is a world leader in industrial gas turbines for power generation 
and mechanical drive applications. As part of the comprehensive portfolio of 
customer service activities, we can provide a lease option for our SGT-100 to  
SGT-400 gas turbines.Answers for EnergyLease Engines
For Industrial Gas Turbines up to 15 MW
www.siemens.com/energyWe provide: 
 Short term availability of major assemblies during 
scheduled overhauls which allow customers to utilise the full potential of their facility whilst their own turbine or assembly is being overhauled.
 Lease equipment for unscheduled overhauls  by 
offering major engine assemblies, gas generators and power turbines during unscheduled outage.
 Package leasing < 15 MW  for customers requiring an 
increase in power for a short or medium term, a complete package installed and commissioned at the customer‘s site.
 Maintenance programs  with access to lease 
equipment as standard for Preventative and Corrective maintenance programs to reduce any unscheduled downtime.
Customer benefits:
 Increased uptime during overhaul periods by scheduling a lease turbine or assembly.
 Reduced impact of unscheduled maintenance.
 Availability of complete packages for short/long term leasing where extra capacity is required.
 Flexible response to short term increased power demands.
 Access to lease equipment through maintenance contracts.
 Lease equipment for unscheduled overhauls.

 www.siemens.com/energyPublished by and copyright © 2013:
Siemens AG
Energy Sector
Freyeslebenstrasse 191058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy, Inc.
4400 Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826-2399, USAFor more information, please contact  
our Customer Support Center.
Phone: +49 180 524 70 00  
Fax: +49 180 524 24 71  
(Charges depending on provider)
E-mail: support.energy@siemens.comEnergy Service DivisionLCN 2013 - F33.3 LN
Printed on elementary chlorine-free 
bleached paper.All rights reserved. Trademarks mentioned in 
this document are the property of Siemens AG, its affiliates, or their respective owners.
Subject to change without prior notice. 
The information in this document contains general descriptions of the technical options available, which may not apply in all cases. The required technical options should 
therefore be specified in the contract.