Joint press release  
 Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 4 
 
Berlin , October 13, 2023  
Press release  by Siemens Energy , ENGIE , and Centrax  
HYFLEXPOWER consortium successfully 
operates a gas turbine with 100 percent 
renewable hydrogen, a world first  
Latest successful series of tests offer a decisive outlook for carbon -neutral power generation 
and the decarbonization of industry.  
 
Installed on the site of Smurfit Kappa, world leader in paper packaging, at Saillat -sur-Vienne in 
France, the HYFLEXPOWER pro ject consists in producing, storing and re -electrification of 100 
percent renewable hydrogen. The hydrogen is produced by an 1MW electrolyzer on -site, and then 
stored in an almost one -ton tank and used to power a Siemens Energy SGT -400 industrial gas 
turbi ne. 
 
The HYFLEXPOWER project demonstrates that hydrogen can be used as a flexible energy storage 
medium, and that it’s also possible to convert an existing gas -fired power turbine to operate using 
renewable hydrogen.  It is thus a real  driver for accelerating the decarbonization of energy -intensive 
industries.  
 
In 2022, an initial series of tests enabled the industrial gas turbine to operate with a 30 percent 
hydrogen content, mixed with natural gas. Now the power -to-hydrogen -to-power demonstrator 
has proven that state -of-the-art turbines with dry low emissions technology can be fueled with up 
to 100  percent  hydrogen as well as with natural gas and any blends in between.  
 
 
  Joint p ress release  

Joint press release  
 Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 4 
 
From demonstrator to market  
The HYF LEXPOWER consortium includes Siemens Energy, ENGIE via its subsidiary ENGIE Solutions, 
Centrax, Arttic, the German Aerospace Center (DLR), and four European universities.  
 
Building on the promise of the HYFLEXPOWER demonstrator, it is plann ed to expand the  consortium 
to include additional members. Having tested HYFLEXPOWER for electricity production, the goal is 
now to extend its operation to industrial heat production and additional operational modes. It is 
also planned  to explore ways of scaling up and co mmercializing decarbonized electricity 
generation.  
 
Exemplary multi -partner project supported by the European Commission  
HYFLEXPOWER has received substantial funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 
Framework Programme for Research and Innovation.*  
 
As the consortium lead, Siemens Energy supplied the electrolyzer for hydrogen production and 
developed the hydrogen gas turbine. ENGIE built the hydrogen production, storage and supply for 
the demonstrator. Centrax were responsible for the package upgrade to ensure safe operation with 
hydrogen fuel. The German Aerospace Center (DLR) and the Universities of Lund (Sweden), 
Duisburg -Essen (Germany), and University College London (UK) contributed to the hydrogen 
turbine technology development. Arttic supported the operational project management, while 
NTUA in Athens (Greece) carried out economic, environmental, and social analysis of the concept.  
 
"The knowledge and experience gained from the HYFLEXPOWER project where we installed the 1st 
gas turbine to run on 1 00 percent  hydrogen will help us to continue develop our entire gas turbine 
fleet for a hydrogen -based future. The interaction between electrolysis, storage, and hydrogen 
conversion at one site has been impressively demonstrated, and now it's a matter of s caling the 
results," says Karim Amin, Member of the Executive Board of Siemens Energ y. 
 
"At ENGIE, we are very proud of this world first. The HYFLEXPOWER project is remarkable for many 
reasons: for the exceptional collaboration it has enabled between sever al European partners, for 
the forward -looking technologies it has tested, and for the promising prospects it opens up for the 
use of renewable hydrogen in the industrial sectors most difficult to decarbonize. We look forward 
Joint press release  
 Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 4 
 
to continuing this decisive wor k for the future of decarbonized industry with our partners, ” says 
Frank Lacroix, ENGIE Executive Vice President in charge of Energy Solutions.  
 
“We’re proud that our Saillat paper mill has been the host for this project because trialing new and 
emerging t echnology, such as hydrogen, aligns with our decarbonization strategy and Better Planet 
2050 journey. Today’s announcement is a great milestone that puts us in good stead ,” says Garrett 
Quinn, Chief Sustainability Officer at Smurfit Kappa.  
 
* This project has received funding from the European Horizon 2020 innovation and research program under 
grant agreement n°884229.  
 
Contact s for journalists  
Siemens Energy  
Sabine Sill  
Phone   +49 173 7196783  
E-mail:   mailto:sabine.sill@siemens -energy.com  
 
ENGIE  
Cécile Chopard  
Phone   +33 (0) 6 03 18 42 67  
E-mail:   mailto:cecile -chopard@external.engie.com  
 
Centrax  
Harry Trump  
Phone:   +44 1626 358000   
E-mail:  sales@centraxag.com  
 
This press release and further material is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press  
 
Follow us on X at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and service s, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
Joint press release  
 Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  4 of 4 
 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrog en, and power generators and transformers. Its wind  
power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable 
energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on techno logies from Siemens Energy. 
Siemens Energy employs around 9 4,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue  of €29  
billion in fiscal year 2022. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
ENGIE is a global reference in low -carbon energy and services. With its 96,000 employees, clients, partners and 
stakeholders, the Group strives every day to accelerate the transition towards a carbon -neutral economy, through 
reduced energy consumption and more environmentally friendly solutions. Inspired by its purpose statement, ENGIE 
reconciles economic performance with a positive impact on people and the planet, building on its key businesses (gas, 
renewable energy, services) to offer com petitive solutions to its clients. Turnover in 2022: €93.9 billion. The Group is 
listed on the Paris and Brussels stock exchanges (ENGI) and is represented in the main financial indices (CAC 40, Euronext 
100, FTSE Euro 100, MSCI Europe) and nonfinancial in dices (DJSI World, Euronext Vigeo Eiris - Europe 120 / France 20, 
MSCI EMU ESG screened, MSCI EUROPE ESG Universal Select, Stoxx Europe 600 ESG -X). 