Joint press release  
  
    
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  Occidental  
5 Greenway Plaza  
Houston, TX 77046  
United States   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Houston , TX March 6, 2023  
Press release  by Siemens Energy and Occidental  
World’s first large -scale  direct air capture plant  
to use Siemens Energy equipment  
Siemens Energy compressors will be used at Occidental’s  first large -scale Direct Air Capture 
(DAC) plant in Texas ’ Permian Basin  developed by 1PointFive, a subsidiary of Occidental. The two 
compressor  package s will enable the plant to capture up to 500,000 metric tons of CO 2 per year  
when fully operational . The announcement was made today by Siemens Energy President and CEO 
Christian Bruch and Occidental President and CEO Vicki Hollub at the 41st annual CERAWeek 
energy conference hosted in Houston, T X, USA.  
 
Siemens Energy will supply a motor -driven 13,000 horsepower (hp) fully modular wet gas 
compressor package and a motor -driven 8,500 hp dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. The 
equipment  will compress the captured CO 2 for additional processing  and pressuriz e the final 
product into a pipeline for injection into underground reservoirs .  
 
1PointFive’s  plant is expected to provide practical solutions that hard -to-decarbonize industries can 
use to help achieve net zero. Captured carbon dioxide can be safely sequestered deep underground 
in saline formations or used to produc e hydrocarbons to enable lower -carbon or net -zero 
transportation fuels and in products like chemicals and building materials.  
 
Siemens Energy President and CEO Christian Bruch commented on  the collaboration  saying , “We 
are honored to be part of such an important project. Technologies to effectively capture and 
sequester CO 2 will be a necessity if we want to achieve our climate goals. Close partnerships with 
partners like Occidental are the base to scale up innovative solutions.”  
 Joint p ress release  

Joint press release  
  
    
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  Occidental  
5 Greenway Plaza  
Houston, TX 77046  
United States   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
 
“We are leveraging  Oxy’s core competence in carbon management to capture and sequester 
atmospheric carbon dioxide to help meet the goals of the Paris  Agreement  and reduce emissions 
globally,” said Vicki Hollub, President and CEO, Occidental.  “Our first Direct Air Capture plant 
will advance industrial -scale carbon capture to provide a solution to help Oxy and others accelerate 
their respective paths to net zero .”  
 
Policy incentives, such as th e Inflation Reduction Act , are accelera ting DAC  technology  as a 
climate solution  to help organizations reduce their CO 2 emissions.  
 
Forward -Looking Statements  
This news release contains “forward -looking statements” within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including those relating to Occidental’s and its subsidiaries' deployment and use of DAC tec hnology, 
which are based on Occidental’s current expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates, and forecasts. All statements other than sta tements of 
historical fact are forward -looking statements for purposes of federal and state securities laws. Words such as  “will,” “may,” 
“expect,” “plan,” or similar expressions that convey the prospective nature of events or outcomes are generally indicative of  forward -
looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward -looking statements, which speak o nly as of the date of this 
news release. Unless legally required, Occidental does not undertake any obligation to update, modify, or withdraw any forwar d-
looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  
 
These statements are  not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that may prove to be incorrect and risks and 
uncertainties, including those that are beyond Occidental’s control. Factors that may cause actual results to differ material ly from 
forward -looking statements include Occidental’s ability to access necessary technology, to develop and employ existing or new 
technology on a commercial scale, to access capital, to collaborate with third parties and customers, and to receive approval s from 
regulatory  bodies, as well as market conditions, geopolitical events, and scientific developments. Additional factors that may affect 
Occidental’s and its subsidiaries' ability to deploy DAC technology can be found in Occidental’s public disclosure and its fi lings w ith 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which may be accessed at Occidental’s website at oxy.com or the SEC’s 
website at sec.gov. Information included herein is not necessarily material to an investor in Occidental’s securities.  

Joint press release  
  
    
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  Occidental  
5 Greenway Plaza  
Houston, TX 77046  
United States   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
 
Contact s for journalists     
Siemens Energy         
Jake Rubin        Janet Ofano  
Phone:  (202) 227-0321       Phone: (803) 389 -6753  
E-mail:  jake.rubin@siemens -energy.com    E-mail:  janet.ofano@siemens -energy.com  
 
Oxy 
Media       Investors  
Eric Moses      Neil Backhouse  
Phone: (713) 497 -2017     Phone: (713) 366-5604  
Email: eric_moses@oxy.com    Email: neil_backhouse@oxy.com  
  
This press release and further material is availab le at www. siemens -energy.com/press  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and  partners on 
energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, so lutions and 
services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value cha in – from power generation and transmission to storage. The 
portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated  with 
hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. A majority stake  in the wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable 
Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity 
generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Ene rgy employs around 92,000 people worldwide in 
more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
Occidental  is an interna tional energy company with assets primarily in the United States, the Middle East,  and North Africa. We are 
one of the largest oil producers in the U.S., including a leading producer in the Permian and DJ basins, and offshore Gulf of  Mexico. 
Our midstream and marketing segment provides flow assurance and maximizes the value of our oil and gas. Our chemical subsidiary 
OxyChem manufactures the building blocks for life -enhancing products. Our Oxy Low Carbon Ventures subsidiary is advancing 
leading -edge technol ogies and business solutions that economically grow our business while reducing emissions. We are committed 
to using our global leadership in carbon management to advance a lower -carbon world. Visit oxy.com  for more information.  
 
 