Benson® HRSG
Our know-how makes you flexible
siemens-energy.com/powergeneration
Benson® technology is a proven process for large-scale steam 
generation in power plants. The heart of this process is the once-
through principle. Combined with sliding pressure operation,  
this allows for highly efficient, flexible, and reliable power plant 
operation. 
To this day, more than 100 Benson heat recovery steam generators 
have either been commissioned or are currently being built. The first combined cycle power plant with a Benson heat-recovery 
steam generator (HRSG) – the 390 MW Cottam Development 
Center, located in Great Britain – was successfully commissioned  
in 1999. 
Benson HRSGs make a substantial contribution to the realization  
of highly efficient and flexible combined cycle power plants. They 
can be constructed either horizontally or vertically.Once-through steam generators
Panda Power Funds, USA: Two 
Benson heat-recovery steam 
generators guarantee a high 
level of flexibility in operation
Your benefits
• Steam parameters can 
be further increased 
because there is no 
 pressure limitation
• Increased efficiency in 
part-load operation and 
at high ambient tem -
peratures, thanks to 
reduced attemperator 
flows compared with a 
drum-type HRSG
• Increasing operational 
flexibility: no limit on 
gas turbine load tran -
sients during startup 
and load changes, and 
no limit on load tran -
sients for possible duct 
firing
Page 2 Benson® HRSG
Vertical HRSG with Benson HP evaporator
Evapo rator heating surfaceEvapo rator  
inlet
Evapo rator outletEconomizer
Super heat er 1
RH
Super heat er 2
Exhaus t gasBenson EvaporatorIPLP
Our know-how focuses on the thermodynamic and 
thermohydraulic design of the evaporator system of 
Benson HRSGs.
Specifically developed and highly specialized Benson 
design software enables us to make a number of 
predictions:
• Pressure drop, flow distribution and flow patterns
• Temperature imbalances and material tempera -
tures• Static and dynamic flow stability in the evapo -
rator heating surfaces
Moreover, our Benson-specific control con-  
cepts make a key contribution to ensuring the 
best possible operation of your particular 
power plant. 
We offer you our specific know-how within  
the Siemens Energy Benson license. The license 
comprises the following components:• Usage of Siemens Energy patents for the con -
struction of Benson steam generators
• Usage of specifically developed and highly 
 specialized Benson design software
• Training, consulting and design reviews
• Transfer of the latest findings from research and 
development
In addition to providing the Benson license, we also 
help utilities with advise on questions related to the 
evaporator system of once-through steam generators.
Page 3 Benson® HRSG
The best possible operation for your plant
Horizontal HRSG with Benson HP evaporator
Superheater 2
RH
Superheater 1
Benson Evaporato r
Economizer
IP
LP
Eva 2
outlet Eva 1 outlet
Eva 1 inlet
ar distributorEva 2 inletExhaust ga sDowncomer
St
Evaporator 1Evaporator 2
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Freyeslebenstr. 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/powergeneration
© Siemens Energy, 2021 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and / or 
performance features which may not always specifically reflect 
those described, or which may undergo modification in the 
course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly 
agreed upon in the concluded contract.
All product designations trademarks or products of Siemens 
Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use 
by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights 
of the owners.For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA