Fired Benson®  
steam generator
siemens-energy.com/powergeneration
All features of modern once-through steam generators have been 
developed under the Benson license or were used for the first 
time by a Benson licensee. These include operation at supercrit-
ical pressure, sliding pressure operation and gas-tight welded wall 
heating surfaces. More than 1,380 steam generators have now been built under the Benson license, with outputs ranging up to 
1,300 MW(el) and steam pressures up to 350 bar. Since 2004, 
contracts have been signed for more than 80 steam generators 
with so-called ultra-supercritical steam parameters, i. e., with live 
steam temperatures in excess of 600 °C.
In contrast to drum boilers, a Benson steam generator can be operated at subcritical as well as supercritical pressure. The position of the evaporation end point 
can be moved freely as a function of the operating conditions.Fired Benson® steam generator
Longview Power LLC, USA
Coal fired power plant 
Longview in Maidsville, 
West Virginia with an 
installed capacity of 
695 MW
• The world’s first super -
critical pulverized coal 
boiler with vertical 
water wall tubing
• Application of the 
Benson low mass flux 
design patented  
by Siemens Energy
• Boiler supplied by 
BHI-FW Coporation
 Fired Benson® steam generator
Page 2
Drum type vs. Benson steam generator
Principle
Superheater
Evaporator
EconomizerNatural circulation
(Drum)Once-through
(Benson)
Operating pressure 10 … 180 bar 20 … 400 bar
Water wall tubing vertical spiral or verticalPrinciple Once-thr ough
(BENSON)
Economiz erEvapor atorSuperheaterNatural cir culation
(Drum)Principle Once-thr ough
(BENSON)
Economiz erEvapor atorSuperheaterNatural cir culation
(Drum)
Benson steam generators have properties and advan-
tages that are crucial for economic success in today’s 
deregulated electricity markets.
• Extremely high power plant efficiency levels are 
achieved in this design through supercritical live 
steam parameters. The live steam parameters are 
effectively limited only by the properties of the 
materials used.• Thanks to the variable evaporation end point, the 
live steam temperature can be kept constant over 
a wide load range. This results in high efficiencies 
even under partial load.
• The thermally elastic construction of Benson 
steam generators allows rapid changes of output 
in sliding pressure operation of 4–6 % / min as well 
as short start-up times.• The design of the Benson steam generator can be 
optimized to every available fuel. Steam output 
and live steam temperature are unsusceptible to 
variations in fuel properties in operation.
The great majority of once-through boilers in the last 
30 years have been designed with a combustion 
chamber with spiral-wound tubing. Since the begin-
ning of the new millennium, vertical tubing in the 
lower combustion chambers has been successfully introduced to the market, with the Benson low mass 
flux design patented by Siemens Energy.
In addition to the usual pulverized coal burners, 
systems with wet ash removal and systems for burning biomass are also used. The first and only 
supercritical plants in the world with circulating 
fluidized bed as well as anthracite-fired steam gene-
rators with dry ash removal have been built using 
vertical tubing and put into operation successfully.
Our know-how concentrates on the thermodynamic and thermohydraulic 
design of the evaporator system of fired Benson steam generators.
Specifically developed and highly specialized Benson design software 
enables us to predict:Moreover, our Benson-specific control concepts make a key contribution to 
ensuring the best possible operation of your particular power plant.
We offer you our specific know-how within the Siemens Energy Benson 
license. Basically, the license comprises the following components:
•  Usage of Siemens Energy patents for the construction of Benson steam 
generators
•  Usage of specifically developed and highly specialized Benson design 
software
•  Training, consulting and design reviews
•  Transfer of the latest findings from research and development
In addition to providing the Benson license, we also advise utilities on ques-
tions related to the evaporator system of once-through steam generators.boiler 
 performancetemperature  imbalances 
and material temperatures
pressure drop 
and flow 
 distributionas well as static and 
dynamic flow stability in 
the evaporator heating 
surfaces.
Page 3 Fired Benson® steam generator
Our know-how and what we offerFlexible design – Spiral and vertical water wall tubing
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Freyeslebenstr. 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/powergeneration
© Siemens Energy, 2021 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and / or 
performance features which may not always specifically reflect 
those described, or which may undergo modification in the 
course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly 
agreed upon in the concluded contract.
All product designations trademarks or products of Siemens 
Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use 
by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights 
of the owners.For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA