© Siemens Energy, 2021                    Page 1
Enabling higher voltage levels 
within wind turbines
It is essential to raise environmental awareness and increase 
resource efficiency, and offshore wind power is making a 
major contribution to meeting these challenges. Growing 
power demand requires a new generation of wind power 
plants equipped with innovative technologies. 
One core aspect: Due to increased wind turbine power, there 
is a movement to higher voltages within the wind turbine 
network to decrease the current and therefore the cable 
losses. This is where compact, environmentally friendly, gas -
insulated high -voltage switchgear can make an optimal 
contribution.
Vacuum interrupter technology  
The outstanding technical performance and low lifecycle cost 
of vacuum circuit -breakers make this solution the preferred 
technology in medium -voltage grids up to 52 kV. 
Relying on more than 40 years of expertise in medium -
voltage vacuum -switching technology and more than 
6 million delivered units, Siemens Energy has introduced 
this proven technology to high -voltage grids above 52 kV
in 2010. This switching technology is an environmentally 
friendly solution as vacuum is utilized for arc extinguishing 
during the circuit -breaker switching operations.Clean air as insulating medium 
Vacuum interrupting technology facilitates the implemen -
tation of clean air as insulating medium in gas -insulated 
switchgears. 
Clean air technology from Siemens Energy is free of fluori -
nated greenhouse gases and it supports the company’s goal 
to develop com pletely environmentally friendly technologies.
Clean air is composed of 80 % nitrogen and 20 % oxygen, 
cleaned and free of humidity. 
Clean air technology has a Global Warming Potential (GWP) 
of 0. It is a non -toxic, non -harmful and safe medium. 
No specially trained personnel is needed for the transport, 
handling, or operation of the clean air GIS. Expensive 
purchasing, handling, and recycling costs of sulfur -hexa -
fluorinate (SF6) or other gases do not apply.
Although SF6shows the best characteristics as an insulating 
and arc -quenching medium, the clean air switchgear solution 
emphasizes the green aspect of technology free of F -gases. 
On January 1, 2015, the new EU F -Gas Regulation no. 
517/2014 came into effect. It contains a number of items of 
interest for the electrical industry: reporting obligations on a 
frequent basis, training of personnel, labeling and handling. 
Its main goal is to minimize the emission of fluorinated 
greenhouse gases. 
There is also a movement in the USA and Korea to gradually 
ban SF6, based on available technology per voltage level.
siemens -energy.com/gas -insulated -switchgearVacuum interrupting technology 
and clean air insulation for wind 
turbine applications8VM1 Blue GIS ™
up to 72.5 kV
© Siemens Energy, 2021                    Page 28VM1 Blue GIS ™
Compact GIS solution designed for on -& offshore wind 
turbine installations based on proven component 
technology. 
8VM1 Blue GIS ™is designed using a well -proven modular 
components platform concept based on decades of 
manufacturing and operating experience.
This successful concept has been implemented in our 
new generation of high -voltage gas -insulated 
switchgear.
Main features
•World’s leading environment -friendly and future -proof 
technology free of F -gases
•Innovative clean air insulation medium significantly 
reduces carbon footprint
•Proven and maintenance -free vacuum interrupter 
technology
•Completely factory assembled, tested and shipped in 
single transport unit
•High operational safety
•Low operational costs throughout the entire life cycle
Other values on request
1depending on GIS configuration Technical data
Rated voltage up to 72.5 kV
Rated frequency 50/60 Hz
Rated short -duration power -frequency 
withstand voltage (1 min)up to 140 kV
Rated lightning impulse withstand 
voltage (1.2/50 μs)up to 325 kV
Rated continuous current up to 1250 A
Rated short -circuit breaking current up to 31.5 kA
Rated peak withstand current up to 85 kA
Rated short -time withstand current 
(up to 1 s)up to 31.5 kA
Internal arc classification of 
HV cable compartmentsIAC A FLR 31.5 kA, 1 s 
(acc. IEC 62271 -200)
Leakage rate per year and gas 
compartment (type -tested)< 0.1 %
Drive mechanism of circuit -breaker stored energy spring
Rated operating sequence O-0.3 s -CO-3 min -CO
Interrupter technology vacuum
Insulation medium clean air
Weight of SF6or other fluorinated green -
house gases0 kg
Rated filling pressure 0.56 MPa (abs.)
GIS width1 up to 2935 mm
GIS height, 
depth2430 mm
up to 1230 mm
GIS weight1 up to 2.6 t
Ambient temperature range -30°C up to +45 °C
Installation Indoor
First major inspection > 25 years
Expected lifetime > 50 years
Standards IEC / IEEESwitchgear configurations for wind turbine installations
M MHV Transformer 
cable
HV Array cable HV Array cable-BC1
-XB1
-QZ91
-QA1
-QZ92 -QZ93
-XB2 -XB3VDS VDSVDS
MHV Transformer 
cable
HV Array cable-BC1
-XB1
-QZ91
-QA1
-QZ92
-XB2VDSVDS

© Siemens Energy, 2021                    Page 3Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Switching Products & Systems
Freyeslebenstraße 1
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens -energy.com/gas -insulated -switchgear
or contact us:
support@siemens -energy.com 
circuit -breakers@siemens -energy.com 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. 
The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc
Switching Products & Systems
444 Hwy 49 South
Richland, MS 39218, USA