Our commitment to cybersecurity
As digitalization continues to transform our energy systems, 
the advancements in technology and efficiency also give 
rise to heightened vulnerability to cyberattacks. At Siemens 
Energy, we help our customers effectively and efficiently 
overcome this challenge by providing products, solutions, and 
services with best-in-class security as well as dedicated cyber -
security support to our customers along the full value chain.
Ensuring Industrial Cybersecurity
Critical infrastructure has become a prime target for cyber -
attacks. To be a trusted partner for our customers, our port-  
folio must be cybersecure to protect against cyber threats.
Our efforts in Industrial Cybersecurity ensure cyber  security 
resilience by holistically and systematically addressing 
 security in all phases of the portfolio lifecycle, through 
processes, guidance, competence, and state-of-the-art 
 security technology. Siemens Energy uses established and 
proven mechanisms to ensure the integrity of Siemens 
Energy portfolio by leveraging secure-by-design and 
 defense-in-depth concepts.Bringing the highest value to our customers
Dr. Judith Wunschik  
Chief Cybersecurity  
Officer of Siemens EnergyCybersecurity is our daily 
responsibility. With our 
diverse team of experts, 
we strive to be the most 
cybersecure energy 
technology company and 
bring the highest value 
to our customers. siemens-energy.com/cybersecurity
cybersecurity@siemens-energy.comCybersecurity at 
Siemens Energy
~  110,000   
 IT assets
>  100  
 factories
→  All  
customer-facing  
products and solution
~  30,000   
suppliers
Focus areas
The scope of our cyber  defense includes 
information (IT) security and Industrial 
Cybersecurity (ICS).
Our objectives 
• We secure our energy assets
• We create business of  
tomorrow 
• We shape the cybersecurity 
ecosystemComplying with industry standards
For Siemens Energy, protecting our data and information 
assets and offering secure products and solutions to our 
customers are the most relevant challenges we face. 
We meet this challenge through a continuous improvement 
process that includes technical, organizational and 
personnel measures.
We identify the required measures using established 
security standards:
• ISO 27001 for information security
• NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) for our organization
• IEC 62443 for industrial cybersecurity, such as production 
facilities and customer-facing products and solutions
The quality of these measures is controlled by key perfor -
mance indicators that are based on testing, audits,  
Red Team/Blue Team exercises, penetration tests, security 
scanning, and other methods.
Actively managing cyber risks
Cyber risk management is key for handling risks to informa-
tion technology, operational technology, and the products 
and solutions that Siemens Energy offers its customers. 
Our cyber risk management relies on an appropriate orga ni-
zational structure where roles and responsibilities are well-  
defined and that is enhanced by automated workflows.
Siemens Energy’s approach to an active cyber risk manage-
ment includes the continuous and transparent improvement 
of processes and tools and the simplification and standar  di-
zation of risk treatment plans for critical assets as well as 
managing risks to suppliers, providers, and vendors.Detecting & responding to cyber incidents
Just as important as minimizing risks for cyber attacks is 
responding quickly and decisively when incidents occur. 
Siemens Energy maintains a Security Operation Center 
(SOC) to enable rapid action in any situation and to brace 
ourselves for potential attacks. This is made possible by:
• Threat intelligence and threat hunting capabilities 
to  assess our threat situation and adapt our defense 
in a preventive manner
• Vulnerability management to proactively identify 
 efficiencies in our IT landscape
• Incident and crisis response to react to cyber  emergencies 
Driving a cybersecurity culture
As recent attacks have shown, employees are the weakest 
link in the cybersecurity chain, and hackers can use them 
to gain access. Employees need to be aware of the con -
sequences of their behavior when they’re working with 
 corporate data and information assets and systems.
With our own awareness program, which is based on the 
latest scientific approaches, our security awareness concepts 
and methods are continuously modernized and developed 
to anchor cybersecurity in the DNA of Siemens Energy.
The result is an internal cybersecurity culture that emphasizes 
cybersecurity as a daily responsibility in the minds of our 
employees.Website
To get an overview on Cybersecurity at Siemens Energy, 
visit https://www.siemens-energy.com/cybersecurity  
Contacts
If you want to report a potential security issue involving 
Siemens Energy portfolio or infrastructure, send an 
email to cert@siemens-energy.com
If you have questions or comments on the content of 
this document, send an email to                              
cybersecurity@siemens-energy.comWe are here for you with more than 1,000 years 
of experience of all ages (22–60 years) and more 
than 15 nationalities in a global team on four 
continents.

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA
For more information, please contact us by e-mail:  
cybersecurity@siemens-energy.com
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2024
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.