 The Foundation for Securing  Industrial IOT in an Era of Persistent Cyberattacks  
Siemens Energy’s New AI -based Monitoring and Detection Platform , Eos.ii  Provides Intelligent 
Illumination for IoT Cyber Defense  
 
The digital revolution is the key to unlocking a more innovative, sustainable, connected global econom y. 
This future hinge s on transforming the  decades -old analogue machines  that run the world’s energy and 
industrial  sectors into a hyperconnected network of physical and digital assets  — an industrial Internet of 
Things (IoT).  
 
For energy and infrastructure companies, industrial IoT open s new horizons.  Innovative business models 
digitally connect physical assets with operational technology (OT)  and information technology (IT) to  
improve efficiency, enhance safety, and optimize operations  by leveraging  innovative software  
applications, b ig data analytics , advanced sensors,  and artificial intelligence  (AI). But harness ing the 
power of industrial IoT  is about more than any one company’s success  — it holds the promise to drive the 
innovative businesses and  professions of tomorrow for communities around the globe.  
 
Above all, IoT is accelerating the  energy transit ion, enabling an  all-electric future, and catalyzing  new 
industries only possible  with connected infrastructure.  Yet a future run on industrial IoT has a glaring 
Achille’s heel: cybersecurity. Today, defenders lack the  capability to secure the energy sector and critical 
infrastructure from cyberattacks . And c riminal enterprises and rival nation -states have already shown that 
they can hijack or destroy critical infrastructure at the touch of a button. So , if we’re going to deliver a 
more sust ainable , accessible, and  low-carbon future , we must reimagine how to secure it .  
The IoT Monitoring and Detection Imbalance  
When it comes to cybersecurity , defenders are overwhelmed by the complexity and relentless change 
inseparable from  the benefits of IoT. As companies digitize both novel and legacy technologies to operate 
everything in the industrial world — from renewables and electric vehicles to retrofitted smart grids, 
pipelines, and water treatment facilities — they also make themselves more vulnerable to cyberattacks. 
Every link between a physical and digital asset enhances a future attacker ’s ability t o hold hostage the 
energy and critical infrastructure systems of tomorrow. Right now, defenders are behind the curve.  
 
Securing industrial IoT eludes even highly skilled  defenders for one simple reason: most companies lack 
the capabilities to equally monitor, detect and act on potential cyberthreats across an operating 
environment of physical and digital  assets . Defenders primarily engineered  their Security Operations 
Centers (SOCs) around the then -contemporary challenge of identifying and preventing cyberattacks on IT 
systems . These existing capabilities don’t match the complex threats now facing  IoT networks .  
 
Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) and their team s of analysts must adjust to meet  these threats 
– not of tomorrow, but of today  Companies relying on industrial IoT business models  need  defenders with 
both sophisticated IT and OT technical expertise , and SOC capabilities  to secure physical assets from 
cyberthreats . Not only are these capabilities hard to come by, but no solution exists to level up physical 
cybersecurity and merge it with well -practiced digital protocols. Without a unified understanding of the 
industrial IoT threat l andscape,  defenders will continually lack the visibility to see the operating status of 
every connected device, let alone analyze the tremendous volume of data produced every minute to spot a 
potential threat.  
 
Eos.ii – The Foundation for a Fusion SOC to I lluminate Industrial IoT  
That’s why Siemens Energy has built  Eos.ii — the first  AI-based monitoring and detection platform 
to serve as the foundation of an IOT fusion SOC for energy and critical infrastructure in an era of 
persistent cyberattacks.  
Eos.ii is an intelligent software platform that provides CISOs with an evergreen  founda tion for industrial 
IoT cybersecurity . By design, Eos.ii  readily adapts to future threats and empower s analysts with 
actionable insights that bridge the digital and physical divide  within a unified SOC. The AI -based 
monitoring and detection platform automatically unifies and standardizes IoT data flows, so analysts have 
visibility into  every part of an IoT  network — and can analyze anomalous behavior that might represent a 
cyberthreat — in a single pane of glass.  
Eos.ii uses machine learning to automatically tailor defenses and prioritize high -consequence events. As 
new threats emerge, Eos.ii seamlessly integrates their known characteristics into automated defenses, and 
allows for easy manual updates to its rules -based detection engine. With Eos.ii, defenders spend less time 
on routine tasks and more time conducting powerful investigations. This marks a powerful shift — 
instead of reacting to attacks already underway, defenders can disrupt attacks in early stages. C ompanies 
can implement precision defenses when confronted with breaches. Instead of all -or-nothing shutdowns, 
with precision defense, companies under attack can purge exactly the affected systems — no more and no 
less.  
Eos.ii empowers defenders with the i nsights they need to act quickly and precisely. It’s how we secure the 
energy revolution against an era of rising threats.  
 
To learn more about how Eos.ii  lays the foundation for a secure industrial IoT future,  check out our new 
white paper : EOS.ii   
 
 
