Cyber Resilience in the 
Oil and Gas Industry:  
Playbook for Boards   
and Corporate Officers
WHITE PAPER
MAY 2021In collaboration with   
Siemens Energy and Saudi Aramco
Contents
Foreword
Executive summary
1 Introduction
2 How to use this playbook
3 Cyber-resilience principles for oil and gas industry boards
4 Implementing the oil and gas principles
5 Conclusion
Appendix A: General cyber-resilience principles for boards
Appendix B: How to operationalize the principles
Appendix C: Taxonomy
Appendix D: Cyber Resilience in Oil and Gas Strategy and 
Culture Working Group
Contributors
Endnotes3
4
5
8
9
13
18
19
20
23
24
25
26
Cover: Zora Zhuang, Getty Images – Inside: Getty Images, Unsplash
© 2021 World Economic Forum. All rights 
reserved. No part of this publication may 
be reproduced or transmitted in any form 
or by any means, including photocopying 
and recording, or by any information 
storage and retrieval system.
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
2
Foreword
The digital revolution and the energy transition 
have jointly transformed the oil and gas industry’s 
decades-old business model in just a few short 
years. Today, companies control physical energy 
assets by linking operational technology with 
information technology networks that leverage big 
data, artificial intelligence and automation. These 
new, pervasive linkages serve as the lynchpin to a 
more efficient, resilient and lower-carbon operating 
model for the energy sector.
As one of the world’s most sophisticated and 
complex industries makes a multifaceted transition 
– from analogue to digital, centralized to distributed 
and fossil-based to low-carbon – managing 
cyber risk and preventing cyberthreats are quickly 
becoming critical to company value chains. 
Executive board members, corporate leaders 
and cybersecurity managers must evaluate and 
ensure cyber risk is addressed in all aspects of 
their business – from connected physical assets 
deployed in remote field environments to business 
software used in corporate headquarters in some of 
the largest cities in the world.
To stay ahead of cyberattacks, vulnerabilities and 
insider threats in this rapidly evolving industry, oil and gas companies must make sure cyber-
risk mitigation progresses at the same pace as 
innovation. This means executives must continually 
improve their organization’s cyber resiliency, 
evaluate new and existing risks, and create a 
dialogue between board members, corporate 
officers and key security professionals. To help 
the energy industry advance this crucial task, the 
World Economic Forum has convened a group of 
more than 40 senior executives from the oil and gas 
industry with the goal of establishing a blueprint for 
evaluating cyber risk and enhancing cyber resilience 
across the industry.
This publication, Cyber Resilience in the Oil and 
Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate 
Officers, is the result of community members 
leading in-depth discussions to illuminate the 
industry’s best practices and create new solutions 
that help corporate leaders address cyber risk. 
We encourage community members and other 
companies in the oil and gas ecosystem to adopt 
these principles and pledge their commitment to 
addressing cyber risk so the industry can continue 
to meet customer needs and deliver safe, affordable 
and low-carbon energy for decades to come.Leo Simonovich 
Vice-President and Global 
Head, Industrial Cyber and 
Digital Security, Siemens 
Corporation, USA
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: 
Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
May 2021Basim Al-Ruwaii 
Chief Information Security 
Officer, Saudi Aramco, 
Saudi Arabia
Filipe Beato 
Lead, Centre for Cybersecurity, 
World Economic Forum
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
3
Executive summary
The oil and gas sector’s future relies on digitalization 
to manage a vast network of global energy assets 
and operations to maximize profits, improve safety 
and efficiency, and minimize emissions in the 
midst of a volatile market. The new wave of digital 
solutions integrates operational technology (OT) 
and information technology (IT), leveraging the 
power of emerging technologies (e.g. automation 
and artificial intelligence), to help the oil and gas 
industry innovate for the energy transition. This shift 
exposes critical infrastructure and entire supply 
chains to cyber risks, making cybersecurity a core 
requirement of the business model.
Within this integrated digital ecosystem, it is now 
the responsibility of the corporate leadership to take 
cyber risk into account when assessing stability 
and security. Not only must the leadership manage 
cyber risks at the executive level, but these leaders must also ensure that cyber risk is a core aspect 
of the operational and corporate culture – starting 
at the top, and cascading and implementing clear 
policies across vast, global organizations.
To effectively manage risk in this new operating 
environment, boards need the tools to ensure their 
organizations develop and maintain appropriate 
cyber-resilience measures. Leading executives 
must build cyber resilience and collective defence 
systems across the industry that uphold common 
standards and protect partner supply chains, and 
collaborate on risk-based approaches to ensure the 
oil and gas sector’s overall security.
This playbook for boards and corporate officers 
provides guidance to those responsible for 
implementing cyber resilience to improve the 
industry’s readiness to mitigate cyber risks.
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
4
Introduction1
Cybersecurity failure, including cyberthreats and 
vulnerabilities, are identified as a top short-term (0-2 
years) business challenge for most organizations 
in the World Economic Forum Global Risks 
Report 2021.1 To address cyber risk across the 
oil and gas industry, board managers and senior 
corporate leaders must act to secure industrial 
operating environments from the increasing threat 
of cyberattacks with new policies, processes and 
attention from corporate officers. Today, board 
members must balance the competitive advantage 
associated with digitizing their company’s industrial 
operating environment with greater exposure to 
malicious cyberthreats seeking to disrupt operations 
for financial gain or other nefarious motivations, 
such as geopolitical conflict or terrorism.
To overcome market pressures, adapt to the 
energy transition and succeed in this new 
operating environment, the industry’s future increasingly depends on digitally connected OT 
to control physical energy assets – such as gas 
compressors and offshore drilling equipment – 
with IT applications to optimize data that turns 
a company’s operations into an interconnected 
network. Board-level executives, corporate 
managers and industry stakeholders view the 
widespread use of digital technologies to run, 
manage and collect data from physical energy 
assets and plant operations as the key enabler 
to reduce costs, improve efficiency and reduce 
emissions.
As the oil and gas industry’s digital transformation 
exposes all aspects of its businesses to increased 
cyber risks, the companies become increasingly 
more vulnerable to widespread cyberthreats.2 
Cybersecurity becomes even more difficult to 
ensure in an expanding digital threat landscape and 
complex global industrial environment.
The oil and gas sector’s expanding digital threat landscape
With industrial device connections expected to 
reach 37 billion by 2025,3 digitalization is rapidly 
transforming the oil and gas industry from a 
commodity-based business run on analogue 
equipment into an automated, remotely controlled 
and artificial intelligence (AI)-driven industry that makes 
risk-based decisions with internet-like speed. This 
rapid pace of digitalization comes at a cost, however; 
as oil and gas companies digitize operations, they 
simultaneously expose their companies to cyber risks.
Malicious actors increasingly view the energy 
industry as a ripe target to launch cyberattacks 
for financial, criminal or geopolitical gain. Recent 
studies show the volume of attacks against OT-
connected assets increased over 20 times from 
2018 to 2019.4 Meanwhile, the average energy-
sector data-breach cost has risen more than 13% since 2019, to $6.39 million – a higher cost than 
the global average of $3.86 million.5 Yet, even with 
expanding cyberattacks threatening the industry, 
two-thirds of oil and gas executives state that 
digitization is benefiting their business and will 
remain essential for their company’s success.6
As companies decide that continuing to 
incorporate digital technologies across their 
enterprises outweighs the increased risk of 
cyberattacks, they should make cybersecurity a 
core competency of their organization and place 
it at the centre of the future oil and gas business 
model. Yet, most oil and gas companies are not 
accustomed to thinking of themselves as digital 
companies and therefore lack the cybersecurity 
technologies, systems, personnel and protocols to 
protect industrial operating environments.
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
5
The complexities of securing global industrial operating environments
Cybersecurity in the oil and gas sector is inherently 
challenging due to the complexity of running a vast 
organization with different businesses, assets and 
personnel located all over the world, as well as 
working with a complex supply chain of customers 
and suppliers. Without robust cybersecurity technologies and protocols, companies slow to 
prioritize the deployment of monitoring and defence 
solutions for vulnerable devices as well as proper 
cyber hygiene will find themselves unable to compete 
with cyber-protected peers offering products and 
services that are reliably and efficiently delivered.
The industry’s key cyber challenges in a global operating environment
In many cases, companies face challenges 
with internal cyber hygiene as systems are 
interconnected but responsibility is siloed or shared 
across many partners with diverse priorities. 
Companies also face challenges with aligning IT 
and OT departments, managing interoperability with 
proprietary technologies and engaging with trusted 
third parties so that every connected device – from 
wellhead to corporate computer – is protected. 
While this continuity is necessary to achieve an 
ecosystem-wide cybersecurity approach, it is 
difficult to execute.
Many organizations find cybersecurity’s complexity 
overwhelming, and this is particularly true when needing to secure both OT and IT environments. 
Companies with deeply integrated OT and IT assets 
need strategies to proactively manage risk today 
and mature cybersecurity with an eye towards their 
future risk environment.
This document sets out six principles to help boards 
at oil and gas companies mature their approach to 
cybersecurity (Figure 1). They are designed to guide 
board members through the process of cultivating a 
corporate culture that assesses and manages cyber 
risk. Ten broad cyber-resilience principles developed 
by the World Economic Forum that can be applied 
to any organization supplement this knowledge (see 
Appendix A).
Cyber resilience principles for the oil and gas industry FIGURE 1
10 general cyber-resilience principles 
Principle 1. Reponsibility 
for cyber resilience Principle 2. Command of 
the subject
Principle 3. Accountable   
ofﬁcerPrinciple 4. Integration of 
cyber resilience
Principle 5. Risk appetite Principle 6. Risk assessment    
and reporting
Principle 7. Resilience plans Principle 8. Community 
Principle 9. Review Principle 10. Effectiveness6 oil and gas industry-speciﬁc cyber-resilience principles 
OG1. Cyber -resilience governance
OG4. Holistic risk -management approach
OG6. Ecosystem -wide cyber- resilience plansOG2. Resilience by design
OG5. Ecosystem -wide collaborationOG3. Corporate responsibility for cyber resilience  
Source: World Economic Forum

Scenario: From 2014 to 2017, a malicious 
adversary breached the cyber defences of an oil 
and gas refinery using OT specific malware called 
Trisis or Triton to target the safety systems used for 
oil and gas production.
After going undetected for three years by the oil 
and gas company’s security team, the attackers 
activated their malware to disrupt the refinery’s 
safety instrumented systems. But when the attack 
was deployed in the summer of 2017, an error in 
the malware caused the plant to shut down instead 
of causing significant physical damage and killing 
or severely injuring company workers as intended. 
Little did investigators know at the time that this 
failed attack was the first known cyberattack 
specifically aiming to kill people.
Immediately following the attack, plant security 
personnel – and their third parties – did not 
consider the sudden shutdown to be a direct result 
of a cyberattack and, thus, did not investigate this 
possibility as a root cause in their analysis. Years 
of investing in IT security but without taking a 
specific approach to OT cyber protection left the 
organization unprepared to deal with the attack or 
conduct the investigation. Having failed to correctly 
recognize and block the ongoing cyber-breach 
threat, the plant went back into operation with the 
malicious actor still present.
With the malware still active, a month later 
attackers made a second attempt to disrupt the refinery’s safety system, but this time attempted 
to shut down even more critical infrastructure; 
fortunately, the attackers again failed due to 
a different error. This time the plant’s security 
team requested support from OT specialists 
to investigate the shutdowns in greater depth. 
After the second investigation, security experts 
found that the plan’s OT systems were being 
manipulated. They discovered that attackers were 
maliciously manipulating OT network activity and 
took steps to secure the breach. Recovering from 
the incident and then restoring the refinery to full 
operation took over 70 days and cost tens of 
millions of dollars. This attack could have been 
detected with an OT-specific approach and with 
a rehearsed incident-response plan in place. Had 
these measures been deployed, the time lost and 
the impact of the OT-specific attack would have 
been significantly reduced.
Key takeaways: Adversary errors prevented 
casualties in this incident, but board governance 
can – and should – make organizations more 
resilient against OT cyberthreats to critical safety 
infrastructure by taking an OT-specific approach 
to cybersecurity where appropriate. Attacks will 
happen as they cannot all be prevented, but 
organizations can also detect and respond, making 
themselves more resilient. After incidents, sharing 
information and lessons learned from past threats 
helps other organizations in the oil and gas value 
chain prepare.The importance of operational technology to guard against cyberattacks 
(an experience from Dragos)CASE STUDY
The six principles above will help businesses in incidents like this consider how they could apply them to 
increase their cybersecurity awareness and advance the overall level of cybersecurity at the company.
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
7
How to use this 
playbook2
This playbook outlines six principles for the oil and 
gas industry that will help board directors govern 
cyber risk. It provides guidance for corporate officers and other leaders to strengthen their 
organization’s cybersecurity posture and ensure 
broader ecosystem cyber resilience.
Are you a board member?
Boards of directors are the ultimate entity 
accountable for the safety and security of a 
company’s financial, legal, strategic and ethical 
decisions. Increasingly, executive board members 
are focusing on new and emerging digital 
technology issues that threaten the resilience of 
their organization’s operations. In today’s digitally 
connected global economy, cybersecurity is a complex and critical discipline in itself; it requires 
meticulous technical and operational oversight to 
keep pace with ever-evolving cyber risks and threats.
This playbook provides board members with 
guidance to help execute their oversight role 
and obtain actionable insights to improve cyber 
resilience.
Are you a corporate officer or manager responsible for cyber resilience?
Corporate officers and managers responsible for 
cyber resilience must clearly explain to boards why 
cyber resilience matters for the current and future 
security, and success, of their organization. They 
must also be able to articulate their strategy for 
managing cyber risks.
The corporate officer or manager responsible for 
cyber resilience is often a senior executive with 
essential cybersecurity responsibilities, including 
overseeing a cyber-resilience strategy and 
reporting to – and advising – a board of directors on the cyber risks facing a company. In many 
organizations, this role is called the chief information 
security officer (CISO). This title emphasizes the 
responsibility and accountability that this individual 
holds within an organization, regardless of the 
specific job title.
This playbook provides corporate officers and 
managers with recommended activities to help 
implement cyber-resilience principles and facilitate 
communication on the risks with executive board 
members.
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
8
Cyber-resilience 
principles for oil and 
gas industry boards3
The following six principles are specific to the 
oil and gas (OG) industry and complement the 
general cyber-resilience principles7 to address vital cyber-resilience challenges.8,9 These principles 
are designed to enable board action in advancing 
systemic cyber resilience.
The board should require management to establish a 
comprehensive cybersecurity governance model. This 
includes oversight into IT, OT, physical security, health 
and safety environment, and digital transformation 
to ensure interoperability within the organization and 
drive alignment across the ecosystem.
Boards acting on cyber resilience should consider 
the following questions:
 –How does the governance model create a 
collaborative relationship between IT, OT and 
physical security functions? What effective 
mechanisms are in place for this? –Which roles and responsibilities for cyber 
resilience have been established, integrated and 
adhered to across IT, OT and physical security 
functions?
 –What are the existing incentives for best 
practices to secure operational and safety 
environments?
 –How is the cyber-resilience governance model 
reviewed? How is alignment with the evolving 
ecosystem and associated cyber risks ensured?Principle OG1 - Cyber-resilience governance 3.1
Scenario: Saudi Aramco took proactive measures 
to establish a new organizational structure and 
engage personnel to address cybersecurity 
oversight and implementation for IT and OT.
Saudi Aramco decided that the best way to defend 
the organization was with a proactive and risk-based 
strategy and a dedicated structure to improve cyber 
hygiene and governance. As a crucial early step, the 
company appointed a CISO to institute cybersecurity 
governance and oversee the enterprise’s 
cybersecurity posture, including IT and OT. The 
CISO helped ensure security and the resilience of 
connected physical assets and technology devices 
that could be vulnerable to attack.
The company established a risk-based 
cybersecurity programme and strategy to cover 
cyber resilience, and aligned its structure to meet industry frameworks and standards, like the US 
National Institute of Standards and Technology’s 
Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) and the 
Cybersecurity Capability Maturity Model (C2M2). 
A new oversight mechanism was put in place with 
the board of directors overseeing top corporate 
cyber risks and executive management overseeing 
cybersecurity performance through designated 
key performance indicators. This approach was 
designed to support managers and executives in 
making informed decisions in alignment with pre-
set risk tolerance and appetite.
Key takeaway: New personnel, protocols, oversight 
structures and periodic reporting to the board and 
executive leadership helped to gain stakeholder buy-
in as well as increase cybersecurity awareness and 
the overall level of cybersecurity at the company.Saudi Aramco sets oversight CASE STUDY
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
9
The board should promote a security by design, 
resilience by design culture, and should require its 
management to implement similar standards and 
values while documenting progress.
Boards acting on cyber resilience should consider 
the following questions:
Are cyber risks and associated implications 
evaluated, embedded and appropriately managed 
in all aspects of the business by design?How is cross-functional and cross-departmental 
ownership of cyber-risk management established to 
achieve resilience by design?
How are cyber risks and their cascading effects 
managed in ongoing activities and planned for  
new initiatives?
How are key members of personnel made aware 
of the cyber-resilience impacts and expectations of 
their role?Principle OG2 - Resilience by design 3.2
Scenario: At petroleum company Ecopetrol, taking 
cybersecurity seriously means that it should be 
integrated throughout all aspects of the value 
chain, from IT devices to energy assets connected 
by OT control systems.
This overarching principle has been cascaded 
throughout the company’s approach to integrate 
cyber-risk management at all points in its 
operations. To enforce the importance of cyber 
risk, board members and the CEO developed and 
endorsed key cyber principles in a memorandum 
that was communicated to the company by the 
chief operating officer and chief information officer.The memo’s central goal was to integrate 
cyber into all the enterprise’s operational tasks, 
beginning with IT and OT environments, as well 
as in all the processes in business units and 
holding companies. With the board leading 
oversight and the implementation of key 
guidelines, Ecopetrol prioritized cyber risks linked 
to the strategic risks.
Key takeaway: With board support, the team was 
able to strengthen its cybersecurity programme 
by adding personnel and funding and establishing 
a “Cybersecurity Governance System” to better 
manage these risks.Ecopetrol integrates cybersecurity risk CASE STUDY
The board should encourage management to 
consider cyber risks to the organization and the 
broader ecosystem, examine the organization’s 
cyber culture and practices, and explore how to 
manage these risks.
Boards acting on cyber resilience should consider 
the following questions:
 –How does management view the cyber-related 
risks that the organization is introducing to the 
ecosystem, the potential cascading impact and 
corresponding reputational risk?
 –How are the primary and cascading effects 
of cyber risks evaluated and managed in all 
aspects of the business, and how are the 
potential cascading impact and corresponding 
reputational risk assessed? –How does the organization plan to 
communicate a potential cyber risk, vulnerability 
and incident introduced to the ecosystem to 
relevant parties?Principle OG3 - Corporate responsibility 
for cyber resilience3.3
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
10
Scenario: Many organizations harbour different 
cultures with various risk appetite levels, which can 
be detrimental to implementing company-wide 
cybersecurity policies and best practices. With the 
goal of reducing the potential impact of cyberattacks 
at Repsol, the CISO recognized the need to balance 
risk appetite levels within business units with 
stakeholder expectations in order to implement 
cyber resilience holistically throughout the company.
Using the World Economic Forum’s principles for 
boards while building a trusted relationship with 
board members, the CISO shifted the company’s cybersecurity strategic plan from a technical-
solutions approach to a business-resilience and 
risk-management approach. The board provided 
support for training and awareness as well as 
resources dedicated to developing Repsol’s 
cyber resilience further. The CISO was able to 
provide budget support to other departments for 
lighthouse projects on cyber resilience.
Key takeaway: By ensuring the CISO had the 
appropriate resources, the board provided the 
means to build allies in implementing new cyber 
policies and practices.Repsol shifts from cybersecurity to cyber resilience CASE STUDY
The board should ensure that cyber risks are 
managed and mitigated across the oil and gas 
ecosystem by providing an adequate mandate, 
funds, resources and accountability for cyber-
resilience programmes and reporting.
Boards acting on cyber resilience should consider 
the following questions:
 –What risks for the organization do internal and 
external parties pose? –What financial and personnel resources are 
adequate to achieve the appropriate holistic 
cybersecurity risk-management objectives?
 –How does the current risk-management 
approach incorporate cyber risks from the 
supply chain?
 –How does the organization manage unknown 
cyber risks?Principle OG4 - Holistic risk-management approach 3.4
The board should encourage and empower 
its management team to create a culture of 
collaboration for the effective oversight, monitoring 
and control of ecosystem-wide risks.
Boards acting on cyber resilience should consider 
the following questions:
 –How does the organization engage with  
cyber-resilience collaboration platforms and 
action groups? –What cyber-resilience plan of action covers the 
organization’s ecosystem(s)?
 –How are the lessons learned from collaboration 
activities used to strengthen the organization’s 
and ecosystem’s cyber-resilience practices and 
how are they enabling new opportunities?Principle OG5 - Ecosystem-wide collaboration 3.5
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
11
Scenario: Energy company Suncor’s dispersed 
ecosystem relies on different organizations, 
partnerships and joint ventures throughout its 
upstream to downstream business. Each brings its 
own operating environmental norms and diverse 
approaches to cybersecurity, which can prove 
challenging when cyber-related incidents occur.
To reduce cyber risk, Suncor launched a pilot 
initiative aimed at bridging the gap between 
these different operating environments and 
connecting the OT upstream and downstream 
teams together. During the pilot phase, the 
centralized team is being financed by the IT group 
to ensure common practices and approaches 
to cyber risk, a standard infrastructure and consistent asset inventory tools, and aligned 
processes to continuously monitor the OT 
environment. Through this centralized team, 
Suncor can continuously improve the collective 
cyber-resilience controls and plans between 
upstream and downstream partner organizations. 
This methodology balances preparedness and 
protection while improving monitoring and 
response capabilities.
Key takeaway: Collaborating and aligning on 
the adoption of unified approaches and controls 
improved the monitoring and visibility of the OT 
environment, reducing the detection and response 
time of IT/OT software versioning and patching 
from a few days to minutes.Establishing an ecosystem-wide approach at Suncor CASE STUDY
The board should encourage management to 
create, implement, test and improve collective 
cyber-resilience plans and controls with other 
members of the ecosystem. These plans should 
consider preparedness and protection (e.g. defence 
in depth strategies10) in conjunction with response 
and recovery capabilities.
Boards acting on cyber resilience should consider 
the following questions:
 –What activities are included in the cyber-
resilience plan? How does it cover the organization’s ecosystem(s), including incident 
response, communications, business continuity 
and disaster recovery? Is it adequately tested 
with appropriate regularity?
 –Which collaboration platforms should boards 
and management teams support to advocate 
for the development of collective resilience 
plans?
 –How do the collective resilience plans reflect 
and balance preparedness with response and 
recovery across the ecosystem?Principle OG6 - Ecosystem-wide 
cyber-resilience plans3.6
Scenario: In 2019, Siemens Energy and the 
Ponemon Institute collaborated on a survey11 of 
industry executives and managers at global oil 
and gas companies to assess the companies’ 
cybersecurity readiness. The results of the 
survey showed that, across the sector, most 
organizations have difficulty hiring cybersecurity 
personnel with in-depth knowledge of OT-
connected energy assets necessary to identify 
and address cyberattacks before they occur. 
Additionally, only the largest organizations were 
able to fully fund research and development in 
new technologies and procedures that would 
improve cyber readiness against an expanding 
attack environment.
Siemens Energy recognized that one way to 
improve cybersecurity for all oil and gas companies is to ensure small and medium-sized organizations 
can access advanced AI-based monitoring and 
detection solutions, which would help strengthen 
the weaker links against cyberattacks in the digital 
ecosystem. In 2020, Siemens Energy developed 
an AI-based, OT-native cybersecurity solution 
aimed at solving the technical and economic 
challenges associated with expanding monitoring 
and security that all organizations could access.
Key takeaway: By combining interoperable and 
manufacturer-agnostic AI technologies, and 
efficiently leveraging OT-native human expertise, 
small and medium-sized energy companies 
can gain access to monitoring, detection and 
cyberattack prevention capabilities – a level of 
protection only previously achieved in-house at 
companies with ample budgets.Siemens Energy helps secure weak links in the value chain CASE STUDY
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
12
Implementing the oil 
and gas principles4
The cyber-resilience principles for oil and gas 
industry-specific activities provide cybersecurity 
practitioners with implementation support. 
The aim of this guidance is to help corporate officers and managers responsible for cyber 
resilience to implement these principles and assist 
board members in exercising their oversight 
responsibilities.
The board should require management to establish a 
comprehensive cybersecurity governance model. This 
includes oversight into IT, OT, physical security, health 
and safety environment, and digital transformation 
to ensure interoperability within the organization and 
drive alignment across the ecosystem.
Suggested activities for the implementation of 
cyber-resilience governance include to:
 –Build a comprehensive governance model with 
the capacity to manage and oversee cyber 
resilience for IT, OT, physical security, health and 
safety environment, and digital transformation
 –Ensure the proper level of authority and 
command of accountable officers and subject-
matter experts, with the experience and 
resources to fulfil cybersecurity duties
 –Provide regular updates in close collaboration 
with different business unit leaders at an 
adequate frequency for cyber-resilience strategy 
implementation and budget
 –Promote a cyber-resilience culture by 
communicating best practices regularly through training and awareness exercises across   
the organization
 –Establish clear, practical and comprehensive 
cyber-resilience policies, standards and 
guidelines throughout the organization, including 
for IT, OT and IoT environments and third-party 
business suppliers and ecosystem partners.
Suggested metrics can include the:
 –Percentage of employees who have successfully 
completed cybersecurity awareness education 
programmes on cyber-hygiene practices with a 
focus on high-risk groups (e.g. board members, 
C-suite executives, and IT, engineering, human 
resource and finance personnel)
 –Number of cybersecurity collaborative 
engagements with business units
 –Identification of critical actions during 
cybersecurity and audit reviews, including the 
completion rate and the number of actions that 
remain outstanding; this can include actions 
relating to executive management accountability 
and responsibility.Principle OG1 – Cyber-resilience governance 4.1
Scenario: In 2020, oil and gas company Eni 
reorganized and adopted a new organizational 
model to achieve significant decarbonization goals, 
with technological innovation and digitalization as 
the strategic drivers of its transformation process. 
To facilitate the decarbonization goals through 
digitalization, Eni initiated a large number of digital 
transformation projects, all of which present cross-
cutting challenges for cybersecurity. Consequently, the company developed a global cybersecurity 
approach to protect industrial control system (ICS) 
and information and communications technology 
(ICT) assets and let the IT/OT convergence happen, 
while protecting ICS from classic ICT threats and 
thus enabling the business transformation. Eni 
takes a risked-based approach to cybersecurity 
that is centred on its strategic vision and aligned 
with major corporate strategy drivers. It includes Cybersecurity as a business enabler CASE STUDY
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
13
Scenario: Under a company-wide digital 
transformation initiative at Repsol,12 the company 
also shaped a new cybersecurity strategy. Its 
vision focused on integrating resilience into the 
business design and improving the recovery time 
after a cyber incident. Instead of focusing only on 
technical solutions, the new strategy is based on 
business resilience and risk appetite, and on the 
World Economic Forum Cyber Resilience in Oil and 
Gas community’s principles for boards.
To this end, the security and business teams 
collaborated to define resilience metrics and 
funded lighthouse projects, ensuring resilience was included from the inception phase. When deemed 
appropriate, the security team sought support 
from the board to improve training, awareness 
and resource allocation to deliver value. This 
collaborative process allowed Repsol to align the 
needs of the business and security sections and 
improve cyber-resilience controls.
Key takeaway: Focusing on the business risks 
resulted in corporate integration and awareness 
of cybersecurity, while collecting insights and 
lessons from the World Economic Forum 
community to adopt a more holistic approach to 
cyber resilience.protecting key industrial assets, ensuring compliance 
readiness, employing performance models to 
ensure continuous improvement, using a resiliency-
first approach to monitoring and a rapid services 
response to guarantee business continuity, and 
allowing business to leverage emerging technologies.
Reporting and communicating with the Eni risk 
committee is an important part of the maturity 
model; providing continuous information and 
inducting new members are also key success 
factors. Consequently, a renewed reporting policy 
has been adapted to the new business needs, with 
an improved set of risk indicators and the inclusion 
of risks linked to the human factors of cybersecurity.Key takeaways: By ensuring continuous alignment 
with the organization’s strategy drivers and 
establishing clear responsibility, Eni guarantees 
cybersecurity is an enabler by adapting its cyber 
organization, culture and practices. Metrics 
to evaluate key outcomes include: more than 
10 cybersecurity reports shared with the risk 
committee, and more than 10 key risk indicators 
updated quarterly. So far in 2021, almost 40 cyber 
projects have been aligned with the company 
strategy, and cybersecurity competencies have 
been involved in more the 600 ICT, digital, industrial 
and business activities.
The board should promote a security by design, 
resilience by design culture, and should require its 
management to implement similar standards and 
values while documenting progress.
Suggested activities for the implementation of 
resilience by design include to:
 –Define cyber-resilience metrics and appropriate 
incentives for all business units to ensure 
ownership and commitment to implementing 
new cyber-resilience requirements in their 
operations
 –Establish a regular cadence of cyber-resilience 
reporting by the officer accountable for cyber 
risk and resilience
 –Collaborate with business units and risk 
functions to adapt the cyber-risk posture to 
business needs
 –Establish a cybersecurity awareness programme 
that is tailored to the needs of each business 
unit and its unique risks –Equip personnel with the ability to identify and 
manage cyber risks
 –Ensure cyber resilience, protection, detection 
and response capabilities are integrated with 
technical and business activities by design.
Suggested metrics can include the:
 –Percentage of business unit processes that 
adopt and integrate cyber-resilience practices 
by design
 –Percentage of employees following cyber-
resilience and awareness training (tailored to 
different levels)
 –Percentage of lighthouse projects that serve as 
a model covering cyber resilience by design
 –Average time to detect, respond to and recover 
from a critical cyber incident leading to a system 
failure or disruption.Principle OG2 - Resilience by design 4.2
Repsol funds lighthouse projects to build allies CASE STUDY
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
14
The board should encourage management to 
examine cyber risks to the organization and the 
broader ecosystem, examine the organization’s 
cyber culture and practices, and explore how to 
manage these risks.
Suggested activities for the implementation of 
corporate responsibility for cyber resilience include to:
 –Collaborate with other business unit designees 
and individuals who have the responsibility to 
integrate cyber resilience in their processes
 –Take steps to address internal cyber risk for supply 
chain partners and the overall ecosystem should 
the organization experience an attack or breach
 –Augment existing business continuity plans 
with offline recovery measures, out-of-band 
communication methods and independent 
recovery sites to cover cybersecurity-related 
events and increase resilience by design –Establish ecosystem-wide collaboration and 
resilience plan activities.
Suggested metrics can include the:
 –Number of critical/high cyber risks related 
to suppliers/business partners by status 
(accepted, avoided, mitigated, transferred)
 –Number of cyber incidents detected/shared 
within the ecosystem and actions in place to 
remediate reported vulnerabilities per quarter
 –Frequency of budgeting and resource allocation 
reviews ensuring adequate reflection of the 
organization’s cyber-risk appetite
 –Number of cyber-incident scenarios included  
in the business continuity and disaster  
recovery plans.Principle OG3 - Corporate responsibility 
for cyber resilience4.3
Scenario: Saudi Aramco’s board of directors 
views cyber risks as a business risk of paramount 
priority. To ensure it is prioritized throughout the 
organization, cybersecurity must be reported 
upon and overseen by the board of directors and 
executive management, to drive cultural resilience 
and accelerate risk-mitigation efforts.
To enable these changes, the board established 
a corporate cyber-risk management function to 
identify, assess, manage and report on cyber 
risks, and integrated this function in the enterprise 
risk-management organization. To build a resilient culture, Saudi Aramco then established the 
Awareness and Behaviour Management function 
to create a cyber-aware culture, and implemented 
cyberattack simulation programmes tailored to 
various stakeholder segments, including executive 
management, to train them on how to respond 
and withstand social engineering and attack 
attempts.
Key takeaway: This approach has resulted in 
a notable increase in corporate awareness 
of cybersecurity and resilience against social 
engineering tactics.Saudi Aramco’s integrated approach drives home cyber-risk management CASE STUDY
The board should ensure that cyber risks are 
managed and mitigated across the oil and gas 
ecosystem by providing an adequate mandate, 
funds, resources and accountability for cyber-
resilience programmes and reporting.
Suggested activities for the implementation of 
holistic risk management include to:
 –Identify cyber risks posed within the supply and 
value chain and work with relevant partners to 
mitigate their vulnerabilities –Define and quantify cyber-risk tolerance in 
collaboration with other business units
 –Perform an end-to-end review of the 
supply- and value-chain dependencies and 
highlight blind spots and high risks related to 
cyberthreats
 –Ensure risk-management actions and tools 
follow a consistent holistic approach adopted 
and accepted across the ecosystem (e.g. 
security assessments, questionnaires and audits)Principle OG4 - Holistic risk-management approach 4.4
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
15
 –Adopt a common risk framework recognized 
by the industry, such as the ISO/IEC 2700013 
series, the NIST Cybersecurity Framework14 or 
C2M2 maturity models.15
Suggested metrics can include the:
 –Percentage of strategic or critical suppliers 
and partners assessed (cyber-resilience due 
diligence) and with security clauses embedded 
in their contract
 –Number of critical systemic risks (affecting 
the industry as a whole) covered by the 
organization’s risk analysis –Frequency of risk assessments conducted for 
critical business assets, functions and suppliers 
and business partners, e.g. based on the 
business impact analysis information
 –Number of critical and high cyber risks for 
critical assets, functions and suppliers
 –Number of critical assets covered by the risk-
management process.
Scenario: Halliburton documents cyber-risk 
management and treats cyberthreats as a hazard to 
business operations. To ensure cybersecurity is a top 
priority, Halliburton performs security reviews as part 
of its procurement and building process with four 
distinct steps: request, assess, approve and track.
When a request is made, Halliburton teams 
conduct a risk-based assessment grounded in a 
stable, reliable, repeatable and scalable controls 
library, taking into account factors like data 
classification and business process criticality. The process then requires formal approval from 
the business, legal and IT departments, with 
defined levels depending on the degree of risk. 
Finally, Halliburton uses monthly and quarterly 
executive reporting to track cyberthreats, including 
remediation and expiration.
Key takeaways: This repeatable and scalable 
process ensures the consistent application 
of risk-based controls with clearly designated 
responsibilities for risk assessment and cross-
functional risk ownership.Halliburton’s scalable process on cyber-risk acceptance CASE STUDY
The board should encourage and empower 
its management team to create a culture of 
collaboration for the effective oversight, monitoring 
and control of ecosystem-wide risks.
Suggested activities for the implementation of the 
principles of ecosystem-wide collaboration for 
boards include to: 
 –Collaborate with ecosystem partners to develop, 
improve and adopt unified approaches informed 
by industry frameworks, standards and tools
 –Engage in and report on interaction with policy-
makers and global standards organizations to 
make ecosystem-wide collaboration easier
 –Engage in or lead cyber-resilience communities 
and initiatives (under the stewardship of 
industry, national or international organizations) 
that encourage information sharing, strengthen 
collaboration across the ecosystem and drive 
collective action –Collaborate with ecosystem stakeholders and 
actively participate in system-wide cybersecurity 
information-sharing bodies on cybersecurity 
topics, e.g. the Oil and Natural Gas Information 
Sharing and Analysis Center (ONG-ISAC), the 
Operational Technology Information Sharing 
and Analysis Center (OT-ISAC), the American 
Petroleum Institute (API), the European Union 
Agency for Network and Information Security 
(ENISA), etc.
Suggested metrics can include the:
 –Frequency of events and engagements with 
ecosystem and industry peers
 –Frequency of meetings with security officials and 
cyber-response experts, including policy-makers, 
national security and intelligence officials, private-
sector cyber-response and legal experts
 –Number of threat intelligence reports and briefings 
exchanged with peers across the ecosystem.Principle OG5 - Ecosystem-wide collaboration 4.5
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
16
Scenario: Saudi Aramco encourages a culture of 
collaboration and information sharing at the highest 
levels of its leadership. Both within Saudi Aramco 
and with external partners, the company promotes 
the exchange of lessons learned from challenging 
cyber-resilience situations and success stories, 
to better foster collaboration, improvement and 
knowledge sharing. For example, Saudi Aramco 
formed a consortium for information sharing 
with some of its regional partners to accelerate 
readiness against cyberattacks, and founded 
benchmarking groups in the industry to periodically 
exchange knowledge and best practices.
Externally, Saudi Aramco has established or 
participated in multiple cybersecurity-focused 
partnerships to unlock new opportunities that will elevate the cyber maturity and posture of its 
organization. Saudi Aramco believes that these 
exchanges are necessary to accelerate solutions to 
the industry’s pressing challenges and risks.
In addition, Saudi Aramco launched an annual 
seminar for its third parties to share cybersecurity 
best practices as part of its ecosystem collaboration 
to strengthen its supply chain’s cybersecurity posture.
Key takeaway: By founding regional cybersecurity 
information-sharing consortiums and collaborating 
with various groups in the industry and the 
World Economic Forum, Saudi Aramco is able to 
continuously improve its cybersecurity programme, 
increase cyber hygiene across its supply chain and 
shape the future of cybersecurity in the industry.Saudi Aramco promotes cybersecurity information sharing CASE STUDY
The board should encourage management to 
create, implement, test and improve collective 
cyber-resilience plans and controls with other 
members of the ecosystem. These plans should 
consider preparedness and protection (e.g. defence 
in depth strategies) in conjunction with response 
and recovery capabilities.
Suggested activities for the implementation of the 
principles of ecosystem-wide cyber-resilience plans 
include to:
 –Develop a cyber-resilience plan as one of 
the organization’s strategic priorities, in close 
collaboration with all business function and unit 
leaders, and explicitly incorporate the board’s role
 –Set a regular cadence of reporting on cyber-
resilience plans, to include vital updates, testing 
frequency and results
 –Conduct regular cybersecurity exercises 
and tests on cyber resilience that include 
systemic failure and subsequent recovery as a 
component or focus of the exercise –Ensure that the cybersecurity strategy and 
programme is linked with internal and external 
sources, the management of incidents, and 
response and recovery capabilities (from a 
people, process and technology perspective).
Suggested metrics can include the:
 –Number of tests conducted and adopted 
corrective measures
 –Number of hours of interruption or disruption 
of essential business services, including the 
financial impacts of disruptions
 –Percentage of critical open actions and 
closed actions resulting from cybersecurity 
preparedness exercises, including systemic 
failure testing as a component or focus of   
the exercises
 –Percentage of critical systems that implemented 
and successfully tested contingency and 
disaster recovery plans this quarter.Principle OG6 - Ecosystem-wide 
cyber-resilience plans4.6
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
17
Conclusion5
Cyber resilience is an essential part of appropriate 
diligence when conducting business in the oil and gas 
sector. Digitization has improved almost all parts of 
the value chain, creating unprecedented efficiencies 
and new operating models. Yet unless the oil and gas 
value chain can withstand or recover from cyber risk, 
the risk may have disastrous physical, environmental 
and safety consequences. Both within enterprises 
and as a sector overall, businesses in the oil and 
gas industry need to develop their cyber resilience 
further to protect the bottom line. The six cyber-
resilience principles for oil and gas boards will help 
organizations systematically and comprehensively 
adopt resilient practices and corporate cultures, while 
preparing them to meet the increasing environmental 
protection, social and governance expectations of 
shareholders and society.
Boards can manage and mitigate cyber risks 
by ensuring certain steps are taken within their organizations and by working with partners across 
industry. Each organization will need to consider 
its own maturity as it works towards improving 
cyber resilience. Organizations that implement 
strong governance, ensure resilience by design, 
build a resilient culture and consider cyber risk 
holistically when allocating resources will be better 
able to weather attacks, accidents and disruptions. 
Organizations that further consider how to gain and 
share insights with other actors in the oil and gas 
sector and how to support other links in the value 
chain will help mitigate shared risks and prevent 
incidents from becoming industry-wide disruptions.
Fostering strong cyber resilience will reduce 
risk across the oil and gas industry and enable 
automation and digitization to continue improving 
efficiencies and enhance reliability in competitive 
supply chains. It is up to industry leaders to chart 
the course to that stable future.
Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers 18
Appendix A: 
General cyber-resilience 
principles for boards16
Description of general principles for boards
Responsibility for cyber resilience PRINCIPLE 1
The board as a whole takes ultimate responsibility for oversight of cyber risk and resilience. The board may 
delegate primary oversight activity to an existing committee (e.g. risk committee) or new committee (e.g.  
cyber-resilience committee).
Command of the subject PRINCIPLE 2
Board members receive cyber-resilience orientation upon joining the board and are regularly updated on 
recent threats and trends – with advice and assistance from independent external experts upon request.
Accountable officer PRINCIPLE 3
The board ensures that one corporate officer is accountable for reporting on the organization’s capability to 
manage cyber resilience and on progress in implementing cyber-resilience goals. The board ensures that 
this officer has regular board access, sufficient authority, command of the subject matter, experience and 
resources to fulfil these duties.
Integration of cyber resilience PRINCIPLE 4
The board ensures that management integrates cyber-resilience and cyber-risk assessments into the overall 
business strategy and into enterprise-wide risk management, as well as budgeting and resource allocation.
Risk appetite PRINCIPLE 5
The board annually defines and quantifies business risk tolerance relative to cyber resilience and ensures 
that this is consistent with the corporate strategy and risk appetite. The board is advised on both current and 
future risk exposure as well as regulatory requirements and industry/societal benchmarks for risk appetite.
Risk assessment and reporting PRINCIPLE 6
The board holds management accountable for reporting a quantified and understandable assessment 
of cyber risks, threats and events as a standing agenda item during board meetings. It validates these 
assessments with its own strategic risk assessment using the board’s cyber-risk framework.
Resilience plans PRINCIPLE 7
The board ensures that management supports the officer accountable for cyber resilience through 
the creation, implementation, testing and ongoing improvement of cyber-resilience plans, which are 
appropriately harmonized across the business. It requires the officer in charge to monitor performance and 
to regularly report to the board.
Community PRINCIPLE 8
The board encourages management to collaborate with other stakeholders, as relevant and appropriate, in 
order to ensure systemic cyber resilience.
Review PRINCIPLE 9
The board ensures that a formal, independent cyber-resilience review of the organization is carried out annually.
Effectiveness PRINCIPLE 10
The board periodically reviews its own performance on the implementation of these principles or seeks 
independent advice for continuous improvement.
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
19
Appendix B: 
How to operationalize 
the principles
To implement these principles and fully realize their intended benefits, cyber resilience must not be an 
after-thought but must be embedded into an organization’s culture and incorporated into all aspects of a 
business’s norms. Because corporate officers and managers responsible for cyber resilience frequently face 
resistance to changing corporate policies and attitudes, they will often need a board mandate operationalizing 
cyber-resilience principles. To shift deeply embedded corporate mindsets, managers can take a gradual 
approach (Figure 2) to introduce cyber-resilience best practices within oil and gas organizations.
Approach for adopting and implementing the cyber-resilience principles across 
the oil and gas industryFIGURE 2
Deﬁne the principles 
adopt ed and the deliver y 
method, aligned  with the 
maturity, cul ture, 
organizational model and 
business strategyTo ensue the 
implementation of each 
principle, est ablish a 
roadmap with clear 
activities, m ilestones and 
practical KPIs that 
suppor t future changesEnsur e internal and 
external support fr om 
both mi d-managem ent 
and senior leader ship by 
demonst rating practical 
beneﬁ ts and impactInitiate the roll-out of key 
principles to inﬂuence 
changi ng the cyber  
culture towards a cyber -
resilience and risk-
managem ent cultureDescr ibe the situation, 
the business opportuni ty 
and the value to the 
organization by mappi ng 
them  with the vision, 
mission and strategic 
goal sEnsur e cont inuous 
monitoring via instant 
feedback loops, 
performance metrics and 
routine perfor mance 
reviews to expand 
resilience and mobilize 
the organizationDesign the
integration
strategyGet support
and alliesMake
the caseBuild a plan
and teamPerform
the roll-outMonitor
and expand
Source: World Economic Forum
1. Design the integration strategy
Define a strategy that will effectively integrate and ensure the adoption of new cyber policies and principles.
How to implement this phase towards cyber resilience:
 –Define a delivery methodology around four key pillars within the organization: risk posture, internal 
culture, organizational model and business strategy
 –Before introducing actions to a wider community, assess the internal maturity and risk posture of the 
organization to accurately prioritize the efficacy of principle implementation actions
 –Ensure the cyber-resilience principles are aligned and integrated with the business’s strategy, vision and 
mission by understanding how cybersecurity can support and enable each business unit’s core competency
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
20
 –Understand the organizational operating model and structure to verify which key stakeholders are 
required for rapid and successful adoption
 –Select a delivery-model strategy that integrates well into the organization’s internal culture to ensure the 
efficient adoption and implementation of cyber-resilience principles (e.g. a tailored and phased model vs 
all-in-one implementation).
2. Get support and allies
Ensure internal support from both mid-management and senior leadership by demonstrating the cyber 
risks of their business unit while leveraging the board mandate, and clarifying the specific expectations and 
requirements needed to support the board mandate; this important phase helps to secure buy-in from key 
stakeholders by illustrating the value of the principles in unique situations. 
How to implement this phase towards cyber resilience:
 –Secure support from senior leadership by making the case for and demonstrating the importance of 
cyber resilience to the responsible board member
 –Identify key supporters from multiple stakeholders across the organization that are crucial for the 
implementation of the principles (e.g. risk officer and audit team responsible person)
 –Get internal buy-in from key business heads when building a strategic plan by illustrating the relevance 
and benefits to their businesses
 –Provide resources and funding support for pilot or lighthouse projects with dedicated cybersecurity 
funds to help ensure operational budgets are allocated when adopting cyber-resilience measures
 –Integrate cyber-resilience principles into existing governance processes for seamless and more rapid 
adoption (e.g. leveraging the safety culture and other mature disciplines).
3. Make the case
To maintain senior leadership support and engagement, describe cyber resilience as a business opportunity 
of value to the organization by mapping a new cyber policy with the company’s vision, mission and strategic 
goals. 
How to implement this phase towards cyber resilience:
 –Communicate the complexity and urgency of implementation, e.g. illustrating the risks for the 
organization and business unit, and citing competitor actions against the industry benchmarks
 –Coordinate with identified internal allies to ensure a collaborative and holistic proposal when 
communicating and reporting to the board
 –Reiterate the benefits of cyber resilience to the board by demonstrating business value through 
quantifying and qualifying the risks and rewards for the organization through practical examples
 –Set clear goals by clarifying performance measurement points and timely key performance indicators, 
and defining regular reporting (from monthly to biannually)
 –Highlight the value and benefits of long-term cyber resilience by reiterating the relevance of the principles 
for boards.
4. Build a plan and team
To ensure the efficient adoption and implementation of the principles for boards, establish a roadmap   
with clear activities, milestones and practical key performance indicators with mechanisms that support 
future changes.
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
21
How to implement this phase towards cyber resilience:
 –Select a cross-functional team to manage an implementation roadmap based on the organization’s 
complexity and culture, and each of the principle’s goals
 –Adapt and validate the plan (if needed) by setting key deliverables and measurement points and a well-
defined reporting and metric communication plan
 –Define the delivery model by considering internal change management, business process engineering 
and the delivery method (e.g. using agile methodology and annual business planning)
 –Ensure the team understands the value of the principles and champions the roadmap by applying 
individual goals and embedding cybersecurity responsibility within each role.
5. Perform the roll-out
Initiate the roll-out of the key cyber-resilience and risk-management principles to influence changing the 
cybersecurity culture by following a defined integration strategy.
How to implement this phase towards cyber resilience:
 –Introduce, implement and embed cyber-resilience principles into a target operating model
 –Leverage pilot, lighthouse and existing projects to integrate cyber-resilience programmes into new 
developments
 –Tailor training to a wide range of staff members, including board members, to set comprehensive 
expectations and awareness of inherent cyber risks.
6. Monitor and expand
Ensure continuous monitoring through instant feedback loops, while providing key performance metrics and 
carrying out routine performance reviews needed to expand cyber resilience throughout the organization.
How to implement this phase towards cyber resilience:
 –Ensure continuous communication to key stakeholders on the value of ongoing and future cyber-
resilience projects and the achievement of the organization’s cybersecurity goals
 –Ensure continuous reporting and feedback to the board, recalling initial goals, providing simple 
measurements and communicating progress and the overall value
 –Monitor leading indicators (e.g. project budget, capacity availability) and remove identified obstacles 
before they can negatively impact implementation
 –Monitor and review defined performance indicators and when needed adapt them to support 
cybersecurity expansion.
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
22
Appendix C: 
Taxonomy
Term Definition
Board and board of directorsCorporate fiduciaries responsible for supervising manage-
ment strategy as well as identifying and planning responses 
to enterprise-wide risks affecting a company and its value to 
stakeholders and shareholders17
Corporate officer/manager 
responsible for cyber resilienceRepresents the accountable officer as the corporate officer 
accountable for reporting on the organization’s capability to 
manage cyber resilience and on progress in implementing cyber-
resilience goals.18 The chief information security officer (CISO) is 
often the individual within the organization who is responsible for 
overseeing the organization’s cyber-resilience programme aimed 
at protecting digital infrastructure and assets against cyberthreats 
and ensuring the continuity of business operations. This officer is 
usually a senior executive essential in leading and overseeing the 
company’s overall cyber-resilience strategy and reporting to and 
advising the board of directors regarding cyber risks19
Cyber resilience A dimension of cyber-risk management, representing “the ability 
to anticipate, withstand, recover from, and adapt to adverse 
conditions, stresses, attacks, or compromises on systems that 
use or are enabled by cyber resources”20
Cyber riskProbable loss event that materializes when a cyberthreat 
affects an asset of value and results in a material impact on 
an organization; cyber risk can be measured as the probable 
frequency and the probable impact of a loss event21
Information technology (IT)Covers any form of technology – that is, any equipment 
or technique used by a company, institution or any other 
organization that handles information22
Operational technology (OT)Monitors and manages industrial process assets and manu-
facturing/industrial equipment; OT has existed for much 
longer than IT – ever since people started to use machinery 
and equipment powered by electricity in factories, buildings, 
transportation systems, the utility industry, etc.23
Risk appetite The organization’s or stakeholder’s readiness to bear the risk after 
risk treatment in order to achieve its objectives; risk tolerance can 
be influenced by legal or regulatory requirements
Risk assessmentOverall process of risk identification, risk analysis and risk 
evaluation
Risk managementCoordinated activities to direct and control an organization with 
regard to risk
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
23
Appendix D: 
Cyber Resilience in Oil 
and Gas Strategy and 
Culture Working Group
The working group consists of senior executives from the oil and gas industry tasked with establishing 
a blueprint for evaluating cyber risk and enhancing cyber resilience across the industry. The following 
individuals led invaluable in-depth discussions to illuminate the industry’s best practices and create new 
solutions that help corporate leaders address cyber risk.
Working group chair
Leo Simonovich
Vice-President and Global Head, Industrial Cyber and Digital Security, Siemens Corporation, USA
Working group members
Aker BP , Norway: Sigmund Kristiansen
American Petroleum Institute, USA: Suzanne Lemieux
Baker Hughes, Italy: Angela Grisafi
Boston Consulting Group, USA: Stefan Deutscher, Walter Bohmayr
BP , UK: Yolande Young
Cognite, Norway: Jakob Eide
Cyber Security Agency of Singapore, Singapore: Thian Chin Lim
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, USA: Robert Watson, Gabriel Hengel
Ecopetrol, Colombia: Alberto Leon Lozano, Edgardo Arrieta Arteta
Eni, Italy: Giorgio Medina, Dario Pagani
EnQuest, UK: Ali Talpur, Michael Thomson
Galp Energia, Portugal: Luis Filipe Morais
Global Resilience Federation, Singapore: AJ Eserjose, John Lee
Halliburton Company, USA: Mary Rose Martinez
HCL Technologies, India: Neelakarun Asari
Institute for Security and Safety, Germany: Guido Gluschke, Swantje Westpfahl
Kuwait Oil Company, Kuwait: Reem Faraj Al-Shammari
Maire Tecnimont, Italy: Max Panaro
Occidental Petroleum Corporation, USA: Fakhry Nusiebeh, Yanni Charalambous
Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem), UK: Mohammed Zumla
Palo Alto Networks, USA: Haider Pasha
Pan American Energy, Argentina: Maria del Rosario Romero
Petronas, Malaysia: Muhittin Hasancioglu
PwC, USA: Harshul Joshi
Repsol, Spain: Javier Garcia Quintela
Royal Dutch Shell, Netherlands: Vincent van Schaik
Royal Vopak, Netherlands: Arno Sevinga
Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabia: Basim Al-Ruwaii, Noura Alajmi
Schneider Electric, France: Mansur Abilkasimov  
SecurityScorecard, USA: Alex Rich, Mike Wilkes
Siemens Energy, USA: John Ellis, John LaRue
Suncor Energy, Canada: John Hill, David Craig
Trafigura Group, Switzerland: Mark Swift
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
24
Contributors
The World Economic Forum Cyber Resilience in Oil and Gas community is a global, multistakeholder 
endeavour comprising oil and gas organizations, businesses, providers and governments.
Lead authors 
Filipe Beato
Lead, Centre for Cybersecurity, World Economic Forum
Andrew Gumbiner
Adviser, Policy Strategy, Siemens Energy, Germany
Leo Simonovich
Vice-President and Global Head, Industrial Cyber and Digital Security, Siemens Corporation, USA
Wesam Al-Zamil
Lead, Cybersecurity, Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabia
Advisory team
Christophe Blassiau
Senior Vice-President, Cybersecurity; Global Chief Information Security Officer, Schneider Electric, France
Georges De Moura
Head, Industry Solutions, Centre for Cybersecurity, World Economic Forum
Pedro Gomez
Head, Oil and Gas Industry, World Economic Forum
Khalid Al-Harbi
Chief Information Security Officer (2018-2021), Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabia
Maciej Kolaczkowski
Community Lead, Oil and Gas Industry, World Economic Forum
Robert Lee
Chief Executive Officer, Dragos, USA
Hisham Al-Muhareb
Head, Cybersecurity Governance, Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabia
Anders Rimstad
Chief Security Officer, Aker, Norway
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
25
Endnotes
1. World Economic Forum, The Global Risks Report 2021, 16th Edition, 2021, http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_The_
Global_Risks_Report_2021.pdf (accessed 20 April 2021).
2. Kaspersky Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS CERT), Threat landscape for industrial 
automation systems, H1 2020, https://ics-cert.kaspersky.com/media/KASPERSKY_H1_2020_ICS_REPORT_EN.pdf 
(accessed 20 April 2021).
3. Juniper Research, “Industrial IOT Connections to Reach 37 Billion Globally by 2025, as ‘Smart Factory’ Concept 
Realised”, Press release, 2 November 2020, https://www.juniperresearch.com/press/industrial-iot-iiot-connections-smart-
factories (accessed 26 April 2021).
4. IBM, “IBM X-Force Threat Intelligence Index”, 2020, https://www.ibm.com/security/data-breach/threat-intelligence 
(accessed 20 April 2021).
5. IBM Security and Ponemon Institute, Cost of a Data Breach Report 2020, 2020, p. 12, https://www.capita.com/sites/g/
files/nginej291/files/2020-08/Ponemon-Global-Cost-of-Data-Breach-Study-2020.pdf (accessed 20 April 2021).
6. Ponemon Institute, “The State of Cybersecurity in the Oil & Gas Industry: United States”, Executive Summary”, 
2017, https://assets.new.siemens.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:4ec3d46c-234e-4f48-9bc7-aef5889dcaba/
version:1599660343/ponemoncyberreadinessinoilgasfinal.pdf (accessed 20 April 2021).
7. World Economic Forum, Advancing Cyber Resilience: Principles and Tools for Boards, Future of Digital Economy and 
Society System Initiative, In collaboration with the Boston Consulting Group and Hewlett Packard Enterprise, 2017, 
http://www3.weforum.org/docs/IP/2017/Adv_Cyber_Resilience_Principles-Tools.pdf (accessed 20 April 2021).
8. World Economic Forum, Cyber Resilience in the Electricity Ecosystem: Principles and Guidance for Boards , Centre for 
Cybersecurity and Electricity Industry Community, In collaboration with Boston Consulting Group, 2019,   
http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Cyber_Resilience_in_the_Electricity_Ecosystem.pdf  (accessed 20 April 2021).
9. World Economic Forum, National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD) and Internet Security Alliance, Principles 
for Board Governance of Cyber Risk, Insight Report, In collaboration with PwC, 2021, http://www3.weforum.org/docs/
WEF_Cyber_Risk_Corporate_Governance_2021.pdf (accessed 20 April 2021).
10. Defence in depth is a type of cybersecurity in which several independent layers of security controls are used so that if one 
fails, another will take effect.
11. Ponemon Institute, “The State of Cybersecurity in the Oil & Gas Industry: United States”, Executive Summary, 
2017, https://assets.new.siemens.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:4ec3d46c-234e-4f48-9bc7-aef5889dcaba/
version:1599660343/ponemoncyberreadinessinoilgasfinal.pdf (accessed 21 April 2021).
12. Repsol, “The digital transformation of Repsol”, https://www.repsol.com/imagenes/global/en/digital_transformation_
dossier_tcm14-144286.pdf (accessed 21 April 2021).
13. International Organization for Standardization, “ISO/IEC 27001 Information Security Management”, https://www.iso.org/
isoiec-27001-information-security.html (accessed 22 April 2021).
14. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), U.S. Department of Commerce, “Cybersecurity Framework”, 
https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework (accessed 22 April 2021).
15. U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Cybersecurity Capability Maturity Model (C2M2) Version 1.1, 2014,   
https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/files/2014/03/f13/C2M2-v1-1_cor.pdf (accessed 22 April 2021).
16. See also World Economic Forum, Cyber Resilience in the Electricity Ecosystem: Principles and Guidance for Boards , op. 
cit.
17. National Association of Corporate Directors and Internet Security Alliance, Cyber-Risk Oversight 2020: Key Principles and 
Practical Guidance for Corporate Boards, 2020, p. 6, http://isalliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/RD-3-2020_
NACD_Cyber_Handbook__WEB_022020.pdf (accessed 16 April 2021).
18. World Economic Forum, Advancing Cyber Resilience: Principles and Tools for Boards, op. cit., Principle 3, p. 8.
19. World Economic Forum, Cyber Resilience in the Electricity Ecosystem: Playbook for Boards and Cybersecurity Officers , 
Shaping the Future of Cybersecurity and Digital Trust, In collaboration with Accenture and the Electricity Industry 
Community, 2020, http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Cyber_Resilience_in_the_Electricity_Ecosystem_Playbook_for_
Boards_and_Cybersecurity_Officers_2020.pdf (accessed 16 April 2021).
20. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Developing Cyber Resilient Systems: A Systems Security 
Engineering Approach, NIST Special Publication 800-160, Volume 2, 2019, https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/
SpecialPublications/NIST.SP .800-160v2.pdf (accessed 16 April 2021).
21. Freund, Jack, and Jack Jones, Measuring and Managing Information Risk: A FAIR Approach, Butterworth-Heinemann, 
2014.
22. See World Economic Forum, Cyber Resilience in the Electricity Ecosystem: Playbook for Boards and Cybersecurity 
Officers, op. cit.
23. Ibid.
Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry: Playbook for Boards and Corporate Officers
26
World Economic Forum
91–93 route de la Capite
CH-1223 Cologny/Geneva
Switzerland  
Tel.:  +41 (0) 22 869 1212
Fax: +41 (0) 22 786 2744
contact@weforum.org
www.weforum.orgThe World Economic Forum, 
committed to improving  
the state of the world, is the 
International Organization for 
Public-Private Cooperation.
 
The Forum engages the 
foremost political, business  
and other leaders of society  
to shape global, regional 
and industry agendas.