Industrial Cybersecu rity 
Managed Detection  
and Response S ervice
powered by Eos.i iTM
Intelligent Illumination to Secure the 
Energy Transition from Cyberattacks
Visit Our Webs ite
ACRONYMS  
Eos.ii™  Siemens Energy’s proprietary illumination intelligence  
technology platform 
MDR  Siemens Energy’s Managed Detection and Response 
OT-SoC  Operating Technologies Security Operations Center
PSA  Process Security Analytics  
SIEM  Security Incident Event Management System   Content
04 Executive Summary
06 The Energy Industry Can’t Protect What It Can’t See
07 The Mega-Trend Keeping Defenders in the Dark
08 Understanding the Threats to Operating  Environments 
12 Intelligent Illumination with Siemens MDR
15 Out of the Darkness: Unifying an IT-OT Threat Stream
17 Into the Light: Looking Ahead with Digital Twins
18 Visualizing Insights: The Power of Human  Intelligence
21 Insights into Action: Precision DefenseTM
22  Giving Defenders the Advantage
MDR Service, powered by Eos.ii™
Copyright 2020 Siemens EnergyPage 4
An AI-based service, powered by Siemens Energy’s 
revolutionary monitoring platform, which provides energy 
companies with the visibility and context to shine a  
light into industrial operating environment to stop attacks 
before they occur.In the past decade, critical infrastructure 
has become a prime target for cyberattacks. 
That threat brings a growing impediment 
to the ongoing technology revolution that’s 
empowering energy companies, utilities and 
consumers to adopt new power generation, 
transmission, distribution and end-use tech -
nologies. These technologies reduce costs, 
improve efficiency and lower emissions, but 
along with these major benefits, increased 
digitalization in the energy sector creates in -
herent cybersecurity vulnerabilities. Energy 
infrastructure is becoming simultaneously 
easier to attack and harder to defend.
Achieving a future where energy technolo -
gies are digitally optimized will increasingly 
depend on strong cybersecurity. Companies 
need to detect and respond to cyberattacks 
before they can cause damage – though 
many aren’t currently up to that task – due to 
technological and resource constraints. The 
energy industry’s physical assets and digital 
control systems were never engineered to 
enable the insights needed for cybersecurity 
and industry business models have yet to 
catch up to the growing threat. Across the in -
dustry – and especially for medium and small-
sized companies – the limitations of existing 
tools and organizational capabilities make it 
all but impossible to collect and analyze raw 
data from digitally connected energy assets, 
preventing early recognition of abnormalities 
that could represent a cyberattack. 
Staying ahead of attackers requires a 
new approach to industrial cybersecurity. Siemens Energy’s artificial intelligence 
(AI)-based offering, Managed Detection 
and Response (MDR), powered by Eos.ii™, 
provides energy companies with the visi -
bility and context to shine a light into their 
operating environment. MDR’s monitoring 
methodology and technology platform 
leverages AI and machine learning to gather 
and model energy asset intelligence. Within 
our state-of-the-art Security Operations Cen -
ter, Siemens Energy cybersecurity experts 
armed with actionable insights work with 
customers to uncover attacks before they 
execute.
Siemens Energy’s MDR service enables 
companies of any size to access a built-for-
purpose platform and world-class expertise. 
At Siemens Energy, we believe widespread 
access to high-quality AI-powered monitor -
ing and detection will improve cybersecurity 
across the networks that make up the ener -
gy industry’s value chain. That’s why MDR 
is designed for all OT organizations – from 
the world’s largest utilities, oil and gas, and 
renewable companies, to individual asset 
owners. 
This is a consequential time for the energy 
sector. Technological change promises a low 
emissions, high-efficiency future complete 
with carbon neutral energy companies and 
smart cities run by intelligent, industrial 
systems. 
The energy future is here. Now we must 
secure it.Executive Summary
Siemens Energy
Managed Detection 
and Response Service
powered by Eos.iiTM 
Leo Simonovich 
Global Head,  
Industrial Cyber and Digital Security  
Siemens Energy
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy
Page 5
Intelligent Illumination to Secure the Energy Transition
An accounts manager at a rural utility 
company receives an email from a subcon -
tractor containing a link to sign documents 
virtually. Months later, government agents 
arrive to inform the utility’s CEO that its 
cybersecurity systems have been breached 
by malicious actors based overseas. 
No one in the company – not the CEO or 
CIO, nor the operators responsible for mon -
itoring the utility’s network – had any idea 
even the slightest breach had occurred. Yet, 
for months, someone outside the company 
had the capability to cause catastrophic 
financial and physical damage whenever 
they pleased by cutting power to business -
es, homes, and emergency and national 
security installations.
This scenario is a nightmare for any ener -
gy company – but it’s not fiction. It’s an 
account of a real event made public by the 
Wall Street Journal  in 2019. While U.S. law 
enforcement officials didn’t confirm this 
attack’s origin, the hackers were linked to nation-state actors who increasingly view 
critical infrastructure as a ripe target – even 
in developed countries like the United 
States. Unfortunately, this scenario is a 
harbinger for security across the energy 
industry. 
Energy companies should learn a key lesson 
from this real-world incident: cybersecurity 
professionals can’t defend against attacks 
they can’t see. Companies need real-time 
understanding of malicious activities in their 
environment, their method of attack and 
how security professionals can intervene 
to proactively prevent any damage. But 
most companies today struggle with the 
complex challenge of detecting, monitoring 
and preventing cyberattacks on critical 
infrastructure because of both technological 
and economic barriers. The challenge is 
that the operational technologies (OT) and 
information technologies (IT) responsible 
for running energy systems today were 
never engineered to be secured in a digital 
environment.The Energy Industry Can’t 
Protect What It Can’t See
Cyber risks have grown along with the  
digital and technological revolution sweep -
ing through the energy sector. Digital tech-
no logies are rapidly accelerating innovation 
across the energy value chain in the same 
ways the smartphone transformed the tele-
communications industry. 
Just a few years after smartphones became 
ubiquitous, telecom’s business model was 
forced to adapt as it no longer focused on 
landline, analogue connections between 
customers. Instead, these companies shifted 
to the business of managing data on smart -
phone platforms responsible for billons of 
connections and communications that have 
changed everyday life. Similarly, digitization 
is enabling an entirely new business model 
for the energy industry – one where power 
no longer flows from a centralized power 
plant to a transmission and distribution 
system, and eventually to consumers, busi -
nesses or end users. 
Instead, today’s energy ecosystem is a 
multi-directional, interconnected mesh 
network, which transfers information with internet-like speed and is responsible for 
controlling critical infrastructure. For most 
companies, OT assets are now connected 
with IT systems to improve efficiency and re -
liability while reducing costs and emissions. 
The resulting competitive advantages make 
it worthwhile for companies to build their 
business model around digitization of energy 
infrastructure, but only with cybersecurity at 
its core. 
That means existing “brownfield” assets 
like gas turbines, pipeline compressors and 
electric substations, previously operated by 
isolated software programs or analogue con -
trols, are being digitized and connected to 
broader networks. Meanwhile, digitally-na -
tive energy assets – whose control systems 
are engineered to function using IT com -
mands – like renewable power generation, 
smart-grid technologies, and EV charging 
stations, are being deployed at a break-neck 
speed. Retrofitted and new assets will both 
play critical roles in future energy gener -
ation and distribution systems – and both 
introduce new and elevated risks that the 
energy industry must learn to manage. The Mega-Trend Keeping  
Defenders in the Dark
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy
Page 7 Page 6
MDR Service, powered by Eos.ii™ Intelligent Illumination to Secure the Energy Transition
Understanding the Threats to 
Operating  Environments 
Malicious actors are no longer just cyber 
criminals seeking financial gain. Attackers 
now include state and non-state actors 
seeking to use energy and critical infra -
structure as a pawn in broader geo-political 
or adversarial conflict. A 2019 Ponemon 
Institute study  surveying the energy sector’s 
readiness to address this growing spectrum 
of cyberattacks found that 64% of respon -
dents say sophisticated attacks, like ones 
designed by nation-states, are a top chal -
lenge. Moreover, 54% expect an attack on 
critical infrastructure in the next 12 months and 25% of respondents report being 
impacted by mega attacks with expertise 
developed by nation-state actors. 
The Ponemon study also found that today’s 
attackers are motivated by causing physi -
cal harm on industrial systems and show 
greater skill at finding weakened entry 
points by leveraging cheaply built malware. 
At present, simple exploits available to any 
malicious actor on the dark web for $16.99 
can cause extraordinary damage to daily 
operations worth millions of dollars.Scattershot attacks
Scattershot attacks target an identified weakness in widely used software, 
but aren’t necessarily aimed at a specific organization. The Wannacry hack 
is a highly publicized example of this type. These attacks are sent around 
world looking for systems that they can infect, and attack those systems 
wherever they are found. Slightly more sophisticated versions of these 
attacks – like Stuxnet – can be designed to infect many computers but only 
execute when they find specific equipment configurations.
Ransomware attacks
Ransomware attacks use disruptive techniques for direct financial gain. 
These threats allow hackers to take control of critical systems and hold 
them hostage, often by encrypting data so that authorized users can’t 
 access relevant systems. They are often associated with criminal groups 
who demand payment in order to unlock the hostage systems, and may  
or may not return control after payment is provided. 
ACCESS DENIEDSleeper strikes
Sleeper strikes attack a specified target to set up later disruption. This type 
of spearfishing attack maps the assets within the network, and embeds 
sleeper code or devices that can be activated later. These threats are often 
associated with nation-states, and may have disruption as a major goal, 
rather than financial gain. When targeted companies are hardened their 
defenses against, malicious actors may seek weaker points in the overall 
supply chain.
zzz
Evolving OT Threats
Spotlight on Attacks Targeting the Energy Sector
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy
Page 9
Intelligent Illumination to Secure the Energy Transition
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy Page 8
MDR Service, powered by Eos.ii™
Intelligent Illumination to Secure the Energy Transition
Copyright 2020 Siemens EnergyPage 11
Why do we still lack a built for 
purpose industrial monitoring 
system? 
So, if energy companies know they are in -
creasingly vulnerable to cyberattacks – why 
do we still lack a built for purpose industrial 
monitoring system? 
The answer is that most energy companies 
see their vulnerability to cyberattacks as a 
security problem, not a visibility and context 
problem. Many industrial cybersecurity 
approaches address the problem by air gap -
ping assets in their operating environment 
to put them behind physical and digital 
security walls, and then chase after possible 
breaches. By the time an attack is detected, 
it’s too late.
With visibility and context, cybersecurity 
teams can do more than just detect anoma -
lies. They can determine whether an attack 
is in progress, assess probable operational 
impacts, and create proportionate and 
fast responses that resolve the attack with 
minimal disruption. Strong visibility and 
context enable a fight with eyes wide open 
and a home field advantage – so operators 
can intervene before attackers can achieve 
their goals. The Challenge of Defending  
an Ever-Expanding Threat 
Landscape
Each digitally connected node presents 
a possible cyber vulnerability – a point 
where malicious actors may potentially 
enter or manipulate energy infrastructure. 
In this ever-expanding threat landscape, 
cyber  security professionals are forced to 
defend OT and IT systems that were never 
designed to integrate with a unified security 
 architecture. 
Defenders are unable to translate huge 
flows of raw OT and IT data and analyze 
it to monitor for credible threats in time 
to take decisive action. In practical terms, 
this means that defenders can’t see what’s 
happening within their own operations, and 
can easily miss attackers who are actively 
exploring the network in the search for 
vulnerabilities. When it comes to OT cyber -
security, most companies are operating in 
the dark – and they know it.
Visibility is the cybersecurity team’s ability to see what’s 
happening across each individual digitally connected 
node in the ecosystem. Without visibility, a team is 
blind. Context is the team’s ability to not only pin point 
the source of the breach but to also understand its 
implications, both for the assets that are impaired but as 
importantly for the system as a whole. Without context, 
an analyst can’t determine whether the next command 
will break equipment or make  
it function normally.
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy
Page 10
MDR Service, powered by Eos.ii™
MDR Service, powered by Eos.ii™
Copyright 2020 Siemens EnergyPage 12Intelligent Illumination  
with Siemens MDR 
The core challenge of protecting critical 
infrastructure from cyberattacks is the com -
plexity of monitoring, gathering, analyzing 
and then acting on intelligence across the 
entire energy ecosystem. The digital revolu -
tion is expected to add 2.5 billion industrial 
devices  in the next two years. Most OT 
 environments include tough technical chal -
lenges like heterogenous legacy systems, 
differences between IT and OT computer 
languages, and a huge volume of data 
 generated on a minute by minute basis. 
Any approach providing visibility into the OT 
needs to solve these problems and present 
the unified results to human operators in an 
intelligible form within seconds. The failure 
to execute these steps will result in shut -
downs or running an ever-escalating risk of 
preventable safety events. 
An Accessible Solution to  
Provide Context and Visibility  
to Shine a Light on Attackers 
Siemens Energy’s industrial cybersecurity 
service, Managed Detection and Response 
(MDR), powered by Eos.ii™, changes all 
that – providing the context and visibility to 
shine a light on attackers before they strike. Siemens Energy’s MDR, powered by Eos.ii™, 
is an affordable artificial intelligence-driven 
(AI) cybersecurity monitoring service for 
energy companies to proactively detect and 
prevent cyberattacks against OT regardless 
of their fleet size or market share. Combin -
ing Siemens Energy’s industrial cybersecurity 
expertise with our proprietary detection 
technologies, the MDR service collects raw IT 
and OT data from across a customer’s energy 
operating environment, and then trans -
lates – and contextualizes – it in real time. 
This provides a unified picture of anomalous 
behavior with actionable insights for defend -
ers to stop attacks. Until now, this capability 
was only accessible to the industry’s largest 
operators. MDR’s data collection method, 
technology and Siemen Energy’s analysts 
connect the dots between OT configurations 
and their real-world consequences – en -
abling insights that enhance cyber defenses 
while minimizing impacts on production 
for small and medium-sized companies. By 
design, the methods and platforms used are 
affordable and scalable, making them acces -
sible to companies throughout the energy 
supply chain. They are also engineered to 
handle the ever-growing number of digital 
native and retrofitted assets.
MDR Value   
Protection of hetero-
geneous and evolving fleets
Purpose-built industrial 
event management and 
correlation engine
Creates a topology, hierarchical 
view of the environment from 
the fleet level down to each 
individual asset across vendors 
and asset types
Automated and intelligent 
detection through carefully 
designed rules and machine 
learning algorithms helps detect 
incidents throughout the 
environment and production 
process
Patented analytic methods 
for detecting production 
security events
Deep OT monitoring and 
forensics expertise
Control system engineering and 
security expertise provide a holistic 
view that integrates security and 
production process relationships to 
drive actionable SOC investigations
Disparate data sources are 
standardized and centralized to 
unlock new insights from a 
single rich source of information 
to support monitoring
Actionable intelligence  
for proportionate runtime 
response
Automated OT expertise is at 
the core of the rules, machine 
learning models, and playbooks 
that SOC analysts use to re-
 
commend Precision DefenseTM 
responses
Real time visibility into 
advancing industrial 
threats
Provides a constantly updated 
view of the environment 
through automated alerts, 
advanced dashboards, and 
insightful data exploration tools 
for analysts
   Methods                                    Hum
an Intelligence                                           Technology
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy
Page 13
Intelligent Illumination to Secure the Energy Transition
MDR Service, powered by Eos.ii™ Intelligent Illumination to Secure the Energy Transition
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy Copyright 2020 Siemens EnergyPage 15 Page 14Out of the Darkness: Unifying 
an IT-OT Threat Stream
Visibility in an industrial operating environ -
ment is impossible without understanding 
how the digital world impacts the physical 
world. To gain this insight, OT and IT data 
must be collected from each digitally con -
nected energy asset in an organization’s 
operating environment, and then translat -
ed into a common language for analysis. 
This data collection must take place every 
 second of the day, every day of the year. To 
collect and prepare vast amounts of network 
data for analysis, Siemens created a propri -
etary method called Process Security Ana -
lytics (PSA) which serves as the backbone of 
the Eos.ii™ technology platform.
Creating a Unified OT-IT  
Threat Stream
PSA is a systematic method for unifying OT 
and IT data streams, revealing anomalous 
behavior and discovering cyberattacks in an OT environment. Without a methodology 
to unify this data, it is impossible to assess 
abnormalities in an energy asset’s behavior. 
Using PSA enables analysts to determine 
if inconsistencies stem from a physical or 
digital manipulation that could alter the 
asset’s configuration and cause destruction. 
That’s why PSA’s algorithms gather and 
synthesize information on real-time config -
uration changes, operational feedback, and 
human intervention to measure anomalous 
behavior and compare it against normally 
functioning energy assets. 
Unifying IT and OT data streams enables 
greater visibility into the interactions of 
digital and physical assets – and this mat -
ters. Where conventional network monitor -
ing would only reveal that network traffic 
is higher than usual between two devices, 
MDR’s PSA methodology applies advanced 
and continuously adapting algorithms to 
its data collection and synthesis process to 
power AI models for deeper insights. A New Day for Cybersecurity 
Through Affordable AI
Companies that secure their own networks 
remain affected by the strength or weakness 
of security practices in the wider energy 
ecosystem. While some large companies 
have begun deploying OT cybersecurity 
solutions, small and mid-sized companies 
do not have sufficient research and develop-
ment budgets to pursue new technology 
in-house, and many struggle to hire or 
train the expertise needed to pursue such 
a project. Small and mid-sized companies 
are getting left behind – and becoming the 
weak links in the overall energy system. 
Achieving a future built on smart infra-
structure – like electric vehicles and prosum -
er business plans – depends on increasing 
cyber  security industry-wide and in every 
link of the value chain. That’s why Siemens 
Energy’s MDR service was created as the 
first industrial cybersecurity solution that 
brings all organizations access to OT moni -
toring, detection and cyberattack prevention 
capabilities, currently only attempted in-
house at companies with ample research 
budgets. Artificial Intelligence Reveals the 
Consequential Threats 
Siemens MDR service goes beyond conven -
tional monitoring by achieving a deeper 
understanding of how digital systems relate 
to the real world. With its unified OT and 
IT data stream, MDR’s Eos.ii™, technology 
platform uses AI and digital twin technology 
to compare billions of real-time data points 
against a correctly functioning asset. This 
provides context for Siemens’ analysts to 
determine not only which events are anom -
alous, but which are consequential.
Process Security  
AnalyticsTraditional  
Monitoring
Analytics  
MethodsProcess Security  
Analytics provides  
the basis for our  
ability to derive  
impact-based and  
contextualized  
insights at scalePrimarily applied to traditional 
IT components, including netflow 
and endpoints
Process  
ContextProduction process data are only 
leveraged in the incident response 
phase or are not used at all
Production process data are  
fully integrated into the analysis  
and investigation chainApplied to multiple 
OT data streams, including 
asset and process behaviorFocus on  
ImpactSemi-active response leveraging tradition -
al tools with a limited understanding of 
consequence and physical world impacts 
on availability, reliability, and production 
Real-time modeling and understanding of 
 consequences and multiplier effects on produc -
tion fleets and the energy system as a wholeTime to  
InsightsManual, with multiple  
touchpoints and owners 
Generated in real-time  
and at scale through  
automated detection 
Intelligent Illumination to Secure the Energy Transition
Copyright 2020 Siemens EnergyPage 17
Alert Management
Automatically detect 
events and correlate them 
for analyst reviewPlatform Tuner 
Easil y build new rules, 
tune ML models, and 
enhance capabilities for 
specific sites and assetsInvestigations 
Use data search and 
correlation tools to conduct 
deep investigations into 
specific assets
Threat Intelligence 
Compare site activity to 
known signatures and 
review historic data for 
new signaturesPlant Data Visualizer 
Review data visualizations 
from physical and digital 
assets in one place for 
enhanced context 
Topology Search 
Quickly search for assets, 
anomalies, vulnerabilities, 
and other data across fleetsInto the Light: Looking Ahead 
with Digital Twins Eos.ii™ Platform 
Platform modules provide the backbone to generate insights and drive actionable intelligence
While visibility can provide customers 
insight and intelligent data for detecting 
anomalous behavior, defenders still re -
quire context to stop attacks. This is a core 
challenge for industrial-scale OT cyberse -
curity – defenders need to analyze and act 
on the credible threats embedded in huge 
flows of IT and OT data every second of the 
day, every day of the year. The only way to 
enable rapid human understanding at this 
scale – leading to decisive actions to stop an 
attack – is using AI and automated domain 
expertise to provide context. 
The Eos.ii™ Platform Brings 
Illumination Intelligence  
to the Industrial Operating 
Environment
Siemens Energy created Eos.ii™, our 
 Security Incident Event Management sys -
tem (SIEM), to provide AI-backed speed 
and scale for automated analysis and exact 
context. This technology is an interoperable 
and manufacturer-agnostic platform which takes the aggregated IT and OT data from 
PSA’s threat stream and contextualizes it to 
understand anomalous behavior. 
The platform does this by using algorithms 
to create a digital twin to compare anoma -
lous behavior against a digital replica mod -
eling normal operations. Any deviations, 
automatically flagged by our platform rule 
logic, will indicate an impending cyberthreat 
that analysts can act on before a malicious 
command executes in the physical world.
MDR’s technology platform also scales to 
enable efficient in-depth investigation into 
the anomalies it discovers. The platform was 
built from real world use cases, leveraging 
Siemens’ domain expertise to develop 
detection rules from past attacks to model 
for increasingly sophisticated threats. Our 
platform leverages proprietary OT threat 
intelligence datasets tailored to operating 
environments, such as oil and gas assets, 
power and electric grid assets, and edge 
devices – and compatible with any manu -
facturer.
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy
Page 16
MDR Service, powered by Eos.ii™
MDR Service, powered by Eos.ii™
Copyright 2020 Siemens EnergyPage 18Visualizing Insights:  
The Power of Human 
 Intelligence
MDR’s methodology and technology plat -
form empowers defenders with the visibility 
and context to see where attackers are 
launching threats and what they are target -
ing. These highly sophisticated algorithms 
cut through the complexities of today’s en -
ergy ecosystem to give defenders actionable 
intelligence – but data and algorithms can’t 
stop an attack by themselves. 
The power of Siemens’ MDR solution comes 
from human intelligence – experts who can 
seamlessly transition from analyzing intel -
ligence in the digital world to acting in the 
physical world to stop an attack. 
Every Threat Is Consequential: 
Siemens’ OT-SoC Makes the Digital 
World Real
Armed with our proprietary MDR playbook, 
and based in our state-of the-art OT-Security 
Operations Center, Siemens OT cybersecu -
rity experts turn visibility and context into 
action. Siemens’ cyber experts believe in 
the principle that every threat is consequen -
tial, so every alert matters. That’s because 
they’ve seen the consequences of cyberat -
tacks on critical infrastructure before.To Stop an Attack, Experts Must 
Think Like Attackers
Trained in plant operations, they can think – 
and act – like a hacker to stop an attack; 
and they remain dedicated to an incident 
case – from the time it is detected to the 
time it is neutralized. This means our ana -
lysts don’t filter potential cyberthreats and 
raise awareness to others with deep domain 
expertise after the severity of the attack 
becomes apparent. Instead, MDR customers 
start straight away with an expert who has 
decades long experience in OT cybersecurity 
to anticipate and pinpoint attacker’s every 
move, and that expert sticks with the case. 
Our experts continually maintain the tools 
and sharpen the algorithms needed to con -
duct forensic investigations into anomalies, 
run operations to rapidly discover malicious 
code and determine the intended conse -
quences early enough to prevent or mitigate 
damage, and provide customers with action -
able intelligence. 
Sharpening tools  
and algorithms
MDR’s technology platform is self-learning, but 
it requires OT-specific insight to continually 
sharpen algorithms and build up new rules to 
eliminate attacks before they cause damage.
To ensure Siemens OT-SoC stays agile and 
ahead of attackers Siemens Energy uses 
OT hackathons to keep our analysts in the 
mindset of a hacker as they defend operating 
environments. Siemens control engineers get 
to work on use cases for specific assets and 
practice breaching defenses based on the 
latest threat intelligence. Acting on   
intelligence
Our customers value operational integrity and 
security because their businesses depend on 
minute-by-minute reliability. 
Siemens MDR optimizes for both risk reduction 
and our customers’ commitments to energy 
availability and safety. Resolving attacks with 
the minimum disruption to operations requires 
taking proportionate action – and that’s the 
philosophy Siemens Energy takes with our 
Precision DefenseTM method.Running   
operations
For Siemens OT-SoC analysts, every alert mat -
ters; our analysts work based on the potential 
physical and financial damage of an attack 
using digital twin technology to map impact 
across a customer’s operating environment.
In the OT-SoC, workflow is determined by 
playbooks of attack / use case, rather than 
the importance of escalation path. Instead 
of passing a potential cyberattack case up an 
escalation chain, our experts follow the ICS kill 
chain for every alert. That means our analysts 
remain with their customers from opening a 
new case to eradicating an attack. Customers 
can expect prioritization based on expected 
operational impacts, a clear assessment of an 
unfolding attack, and targeted recommenda -
tions for how it should be fixed.Human Intelligence at Work
Analyst-customer interlock to deliver richer insights
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy
Page 19
Intelligent Illumination to Secure the Energy Transition
Intelligent Illumination to Secure the Energy Transition
Copyright 2020 Siemens EnergyPage 21Insights
ActionDetect attack
Use AI and machine learning to 
detect anomalous and potentially 
malicious activity
Prioritize by impact 
Consider operational impact based on SOC 
analyst OT expertise and understanding 
of the customer environmentInvestigate disruption
Follow SOC playbooks and 
leverage platform tools to better 
understand the incident
Recommend response
Identify a proportionate response to 
address the incident without 
unnecessary operational impact
Resolve incident
Take response action, digital or 
physical, to address risk and secure 
the affected systemsContact customer
Engage customer with investigation 
results and any follow up information 
required to develop a responseInsights into Action:  
Precision DefenseTM 
While most IT systems can physically with -
stand a no-notice shutdown, things aren’t 
so simple in OT. In OT environments, pulling 
the plug is an expensive proposition and a 
last resort. Any defensive action to protect 
equipment has to account for its physical 
state, safety consequences, and the phys -
ical connections to other systems. Poorly 
thought out actions may cause irreparable 
damage. That’s why Siemens Energy devel -
oped Precision Defense™. 
Precision Defense™ is a response method 
with the goal of deploying appropriate, 
targeted, and proportionate measures to 
correct and recover from a cybersecurity 
incident. Defenders contain an attack by 
addressing exactly the affected systems –  
no more and no less. Correctly implement -
ed, it results in fully effective containment 
and eradication of the threat, with the 
minimum possible disruption to production. 
Precision Defense™ is impossible without 
accurate insights into the extent of an 
intrusion.Implementing the Precision 
 DefenseTM Playbook
The Precision Defense™ playbook used with 
Siemens Energy’s MDR draws on 30 years 
of real-world experience and leadership in 
leading national and multi-national Com -
puter Emergency Response Teams (CERTs). 
The MDR playbook contains scenarios and 
associated decision trees for the appropri -
ate level of action in a specific asset stack. 
For example, the containment steps will 
differ widely between an outage caused 
by environmental damage, a safety threat 
or a mega attack like WannaCry. Playbook 
recommendations are not only digital but 
also physical – sometimes reconfiguring a 
gauge or turning a valve can be as effective 
as electronically isolating malware. Precision DefenseTM
Rapid and proportionate response to stop attacks before they occur
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy
Page 20
MDR Service, powered by Eos.ii™
MDR Service, powered by Eos.ii™
Copyright 2020 Siemens EnergyPage 22Giving Defenders  
the Advantage
Energy companies can reasonably expect 
that attacks like the one covered by Wall 
Street Journal will recur and continue. If – 
or more likely when – a similar attack tar -
gets a Siemens Energy MDR customer, the 
hackers will risk detection at multiple stages 
of the attack. The advantage is flipped. Now 
the defender is empowered with insights to 
stay ahead of attackers. Instead of an un -
aware compromised company continuously 
at risk of disruption, it’s the intruders who 
are continuously at risk of discovery. 
The complexity of industrial cyber moni -
toring has made many companies slow to 
address the issue, and led some companies 
to determine the risk-reward proposition 
isn’t worth the investment. Yet the same 
technology changes driving digitalization 
and increasing complexity for defenders will 
continue to raise the stakes for monitoring 
and detection in the energy industry. Cutting-Edge Cyber Monitoring 
and Detection for the Many, Not 
Just the Few 
Siemens Energy’s tailored deployment mod -
el can change the paradigm without loss of 
operational control. Instead of flying blind, 
companies using Siemens Energy MDR 
have 24 / 7 visibility across their OT assets 
and digital control systems. Energy com -
panies gain greater confidence that their 
leadership will be able to make informed 
decisions on cybersecurity. Siemens Energy 
MDR will swiftly identify cyberattacks, and 
advise how to respond proportionally.
Advances like built-for-purpose OT cyber -
security monitoring and detection will help 
the energy sector mature and strengthen 
weak links in the energy value chain. 
Adopting and deploying better monitoring 
systems will make critical infrastructure 
more mature, and importantly, will enable 
companies to unlock the full potential of 
digitalization and the next wave of smart 
technologies. It’s how we can all work to 
secure a better future.
Copyright 2020 Siemens Energy
Page 23
Intelligent Illumination to Secure the Energy Transition
Published by
Siemens Energy Inc.
15375 Memorial Drive  
Houston, TX 77079  
United States
For further information: 
Calvin Hunt
Global Portfolio Lead
Calvin.hunt@siemens.com
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and / or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the pro -
ducts. The requested performance features are binding only when they 
are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/offerings/services/digital-services/cybersecurity.html