Simulating a
Cyberattack on the 
Energy Industry
A PLAYBOOK FOR INCIDENT RESPONSE
Foreword 
Today’s cybersecurity environment brings attacks 
to the utility sector with increased frequency and 
sophistication – and many are struggling to adapt 
to the new normal. We can no longer treat cyber -
security as though attacks are rare, one-off events. 
Instead, utilities need to plan for resilience against 
the backdrop of constant siege. The best way to 
approach this new threat environment is to 
develop an incident response (IR) plan to better 
detect, contain and eliminate cyberattacks with 
minimal impact on operations.
In the same way the physical safety of a plant 
depends on many people understanding their 
roles and responsibilities to ensure the availability 
and safety of operations, cybersecurity is a collec -
tive undertaking. Teams that have built and prac -
ticed an IR playbook in advance of a breach will 
perform better than teams forced to improvise 
every time.
The focus of cyberattacks against the energy 
industry has shifted from targeting information 
technologies (IT) toward operating technologies 
(OT). Instead of seeking to extract information like 
credit card numbers or business practices, 
attackers aim to disrupt service or damage critical 
infrastructure. Detecting and responding to these 
events require cybersecurity, IT, and OT experts to 
work together in a crisis.
Leo Simonovich                                           
Global Head                                                
Industrial Cyber and Digital Security, 
Siemens Energy, Inc.Leaders will need to choose between competing 
interests during cyber incidents and make deci -
sions with partial information in high-stress situa -
tions. Continuing plant operations may preclude 
investigation of anomalies or make it more diffi -
cult to preserve evidence. Someone in the organi -
zation will need to decide when – and how – to 
engage with partners, vendors, regulators, and 
the public. All these issues require thoughtful 
consideration before a crisis.
With a more than a /one.fitted/seven.fitted/zero.fitted year legacy of building and 
securing critical infrastructure, Siemens stands 
ready to assist utilities in enhancing their security, 
detecting anomalies, and responding to threats 
before damage occurs. This white paper offers an 
example of an attack against a fictional electric 
utility, as it manages an unfolding crisis and illus -
trates how IR planning can make a difference in 
reaching the least disruptive outcome.
We hope it will help your team prepare.Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /two.fitted
Introduction
This paper will examine an incident response 
scenario, using specific examples drawn from a 
recent interactive session held in the United 
Kingdom (UK). The exercise simulated an attack, 
which caused a blackout at the main electric 
utility, ACMEPower, in a fictional city called ACME -
City. While this particular exercise was held jointly 
by the cybersecurity group of the UK Energy Emer -
gency Executive (E/three.fittedCC) and the UK Department 
for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), 
its lessons are broadly applicable for regulators, 
utilities, and operational technology (OT) or infor -
mation technology (IT) security experts anywhere 
in the world.
Tabletop exercises can help utilities evaluate their 
cybersecurity strengths and weaknesses, and 
generate insights that shape their IR detection and 
prevention strategies. They bring abstract 
concepts to life and enable participants to connect 
the what-if incident response steps with 
day-to-day jobs. Done well, exercises can help key 
personnel preview problems likely to arise from 
real-life challenges.IR planning is especially relevant today because 
industrial cyberattacks are on the rise, and the 
nature of these attacks is changing with increased 
connectivity and penetration of digital energy 
assets. Digitalization brings a convergence of IT 
and OT connectivity, so that data can travel from 
the field to the control room, and to the enterprise 
network; with that evolution also comes opportu -
nity and risk.Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /three.fitted
Cyberattacks on the energy industry have escalated in recent years, both in volume and sophistication. 
In /two.fitted/zero.fitted/one.fitted/zero.fitted Stuxnet was the first known case of malware specifically designed to attack industrial control 
systems. Then, in /two.fitted/zero.fitted/one.fitted/seven.fitted, the widely reported Wannacry ransomware virus affected organizations across 
the world, including computers at the West Bengal power distribution company in India. More recently, 
in March /two.fitted/zero.fitted/one.fitted/eight.fitted, the US Department of Homeland Security reported that critical infrastructure sectors 
had been intentionally targeted by hackers to cause widespread destruction. These, and other high-pro -
file examples, have made utilities acutely aware of the new and destructive risks.of global utilities expect an OT attack in the 
next /one.fitted/two.fitted months, according to an independent 
study conducted by the Ponemon Institute.
of utilities rate their own readiness and 
response to cyberattacks as high.
Given the escalating threat environment, utilities should evaluate: how to protect their own systems from 
attack; how to better detect security breaches; and what response plan they would follow if an attack 
against OT systems succeeds – either in part or in whole. Too many utilities have yet to take this basic step.
of utilities have no response plan in place.of global utilities expect an OT attack in the 
next /one.fitted/two.fitted months, according to an independent 
study conducted by the Ponemon Institute.
The Poneman Institute found  that utility OT infrastructure is significantly more vulnerable to a cyberat -
tack than utility IT networks; breaches also have a more destructive impact on operations. In other 
words, OT – which is everything outside the enterprise network – is the new frontier for cyberthreats 
against critical infrastructure.Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /four.fitted
Incident Response Steps
Whether an organization is creating its first IR plan or building on existing capabilities, a clear OT 
response framework will help build a culture of continuous improvement and constant vigilance. 
Strong cybersecurity IR begins before an incident occurs and continues long after normal operations 
have been restored. The following steps are distinct and crucial aspects of IR decision-making and are 
intended to form a feedback cycle.
Preparation  – practicing a methodical response to a wide variety of threats. To prepare, IR 
teams should build and maintain an industrial forensic toolkit. An organization should also 
identify which staff will centrally manage a crisis, define roles, and educate plant personnel. 
This team will be responsible for rebooting equipment, restoring operations and eliminating 
vulnerabilities during an incident.
Identification  – identifying a cyberattack is underway. An initial signal might come in the 
form of an operational abnormality or more directly as ransomware. Field personnel are 
especially important in helping distinguish between security and process control system 
abnormalities. An investigative playbook can help diagnose, triage and activate responders 
in assessing the impact and determining appropriate next steps.
Containment  – ensuring the incident causes no further damage. The overarching priority is 
to isolate infections, maintain production, and above all, ensure actions do not further jeop -
ardize plant safety or operations. In an OT context, containment can be difficult; utilities 
must isolate the source of an attack and determine when to apply a built-for-purpose passive 
forensic tool to remove malware from production networks or limit unnecessary data trans -
fers.
Eradication  – removing the threat. The forensics team must ensure that essential operations 
are backed up should challenges arise with restoration. Possible methods could range from 
system patching or rebuilds to full architecture redesign. The team should preserve 
evidence, which may range from mapping of employee change control to full system image 
capture.
Recovery  – enacting a phased recovery plan to restore full strength operations. This requires 
focusing on restoring critical systems first – or operating in analog mode – until there is 
confidence in system-level performance. An environmental and safety check should be done 
in parallel to control for unintended performance impacts of restoration.
Lessons learned  – documenting lessons learned from the incident. The lessons learned 
process is an ongoing activity that must not only capture the immediate impacts of an inci -
dent, but also the long-term improvements of plant security. This could range from a better 
designed process control system and stand-up of a physical command response center, to 
enhancing an organization’s monitoring capabilities. This response system should include 
utility peers, vendors, authorities, and the security community.Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /five.fitted
ACMEPower, a public utility, is the sole power 
operator for the city. The company owns two 
combined cycle power plants but has recently 
committed to shifting /four.fitted/zero.fitted percent of power 
generation to renewables over the next six 
years. This strategic shift has left ACMEPower 
exposed to new threats that come with IT, OT 
and IoT integration.
On September /four.fittedth at /two.fitted/one.fitted:/one.fitted/zero.fitted, a major blackout 
affects the ACMECity metropolitan area the night 
before state and city government elections. 
ACMEPower’s CEO, Joe Provolone, receives a 
phone call from the governor with a requirement The Scenario
Consider a fictional city called ACMECity in /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/zero.fitted. 
With a population of /one.fitted/five.fitted million in a dense metro -
politan area, ACMECity relies on a central electric 
network to provide nearly all the region’s power.
to restore power in time for the next day’s elec -
tion. She tells Mr. Provolone that he has /one.fitted/two.fitted hours 
to determine the root cause. The CEO states that 
he will call the governor back immediately after 
getting an update from the operations team on 
duty.Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /six.fitted
The Scenario
Here is what ACMEPower knows so far. On September /four.fittedth, /two.fitted/zero.fitted/two.fitted/zero.fitted at /two.fitted/one.fitted:/zero.fitted/two.fitted, immediately after a super -
vising operator shift change, the distributed control system (DCS) master server is rebooted, 
switching operations to the backup Human Machine Interface (HMI).
Three minutes later, at /two.fitted/one.fitted:/zero.fitted/five.fitted, the SCADA alarm history indicates a critical failure on a control system 
which showed thermal stress on generation Unit /one.fitted. A similar event is observed at the other gener -
ating unit, Unit /two.fitted, five minutes later.
During the following emergency meeting, Mr. Provolone solicits advice from his senior staff and 
receives inconsistent recommendations on how to proceed. Knowing he has little time to waste,  
Mr. Provolone considers four different courses of action:Development /one.fitted
Blackout in ACMECITY
Option /one.fitted:  Scan ACMEPower’s plant networks to determine when the incident occurred and 
what caused the shutdown.
Option /two.fitted:  Begin an investigation from the Digital Forensics Incident Response (DFIR) team 
and start the acquisition of forensic artifacts.
Option /three.fitted:  Given the urgency of restoring power before the election, contact vendors to 
begin acquiring new equipment immediately.
Option /four.fitted: Begin an internal investigation of all ACMEPower’s departments – both related 
and unrelated to the shutdown. This would help determine if other OT or IT systems were 
compromised and if any personnel failed to follow procedures. The investigation could 
include examining building control systems, operator workstations, computer networks,     
or physical security breaches.The OptionsSimulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /seven.fitted
The Challenge
Leaders must rely on their team to make quick 
but well-informed decisions based on the best 
information available. As is the case with most 
executives, Mr. Provolone is faced with a 
common IR challenge; the CEO must rapidly 
corroborate facts, consider expert recommenda -
tions, evaluate competing priorities, and based 
on this information, develop a comprehensive 
plan with clear team actions. The most chal -
lenging aspect of emergency response is that 
leaders could face multiple choices that will 
determine success or failure early on in the 
effort. These conditions tend to sway leaders as 
they chart a course of action. To successfully 
execute an IR plan, it is critical that leaders act 
on verified facts, not emotion, to find the root 
cause of the incident. And here it is important to 
have a playbook or set of procedures to follow.To successfully execute an IR 
plan, it is critical that leaders 
act on verified facts, not 
emotion, to find the root  
cause of the incident.
The Best Practice
What would you do? Does your organization 
have a playbook with clear tie-ins to both corpo -
rate and field operations?
As ACMEPower triages the incident, the logical 
choice is to immediately reconcile operational 
and network data to determine if it’s dealing 
with a cyber event. ACMEPower should also 
pursue additional options in parallel, such as 
launching an internal investigation and begin -
ning to contact vendors in case new equipment 
needs to be acquired to restore service. All 
responder activities should be documented from 
the start, in a timeline, to preserve the chain-of-
custody.Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /eight.fitted
The Scenario
At /two.fitted/one.fitted:/four.fitted/three.fitted, following the examination of network and operational data and interviews with personnel, 
ACMEPower uncovers clear evidence of malicious activity in the control network. In an unrelated 
action, the automation vendor received an urgent request for replacement equipment outside of 
the standard procurement process; the vendor confirmed the order with estimated delivery of two 
weeks.
The analysis revealed that a malicious actor was on the network looking for a host with an open 
port. This vector serves as an ideal entry point for an intruder trying to hack into a network because 
it enables applications and services to communicate and share files.
This discovery is an important first step in the investigation, but significant gaps in confirming the 
root cause of the incident remain. With incomplete facts, ACMEPower is contemplating whether to 
inform relevant government agencies – including its regulators.
Shortly after receiving the first data points, additional information begins to come in.
At /two.fitted/one.fitted:/five.fitted/zero.fitted, additional suspicious network activity is detected by the Intrusion Detection System (IDS), 
which is reported to ACMEPower’s leadership; this evidence further points to a potential malicious 
breach. Based on this information, Mr. Provolone calls the governor and declares that the utility has 
found evidence of malicious activity on its networks, and asks for local law enforcements’ help.
At /two.fitted/one.fitted:/five.fitted/four.fitted, following Mr. Provolone’s call to the governor’s office, local law enforcement officials 
contact Mr. Provolone to inform him that one of his operator staff – who was on duty the night of 
the incident – has been reported missing by his spouse.
At /two.fitted/two.fitted:/zero.fitted/one.fitted, the vendor calls the procurement department to confirm ACMEPower’s request to source 
one of the components that might need replacement; however, the phone call comes as a surprise 
to Mr. Provolone who is unaware that the request was made.Development /two.fitted
Security Incident DeclaredSimulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /nine.fitted
The Challenge
With the possibility of a malicious intrusion, the potential of a missing employee, and some 
evidence of a compromised supply chain, the CEO must determine what to do next. Mr. Provolone 
reconvenes his core team to understand the linkages between the three possible pathways a mali -
cious actor could have used to breach plant security and asks for recommendations about what to 
do next.
Option /one.fitted:  Deepen the investigation by sending a team of automation, network, and security 
experts into the field to conduct further forensics, preserve evidence, and authorize contain -
ment; meanwhile maintain operations and share all information with government officials.
Option /two.fitted:  Launch an internal investigation to find out who placed the order with the vendor 
for new equipment; wait until this investigation is complete before taking further action.
Option /three.fitted:  Prioritize the search for the missing employee, offer support to the family, and 
discourage law enforcement contact until the family is comfortable with the investigation.
Option /four.fitted: Expand the investigation into ACMEPower’s supply chain. Ask local law enforce -
ment to contact the vendor re-supplying parts to determine the sequence of events and any 
potential wrongdoing. Simultaneously, initiate an internal data call to find out if employees 
and other suppliers have either received or made similar requests for new parts.
The Best Practice
What would you do? Would you limit or expand the scope of the investigation, and who would you 
include or exclude?
The recommended best practice is Option /one.fitted: deepen the investigation by collecting additional evidence 
from the field and validating assumptions through a diverse group of experts. The known intrusion may 
not be the only malicious activity underway, hence other possible attack pathways must be investi -
gated. The investigation should remain focused on what the hacker is likely to do moving forward; 
narrowing the scope of the investigation too early might compromise critical information needed to 
uncover ongoing threats. Maintaining a focused investigation can be especially challenging when new 
but unrelated information comes to light, challenging the CEO’s primary assumptions. If criminal or 
nation-state activities are detected or suspected, it is essential to work hand-in-hand with appropriate 
law enforcement officials.The OptionsSimulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /one.fitted/zero.fitted
The Scenario
Mr. Provolone has decided to deepen ACMEPower’s investigation to validate all possible pathways of 
attack and contain active threats.
At /one.fitted/three.fitted:/zero.fitted/zero.fitted – approximately /three.fitted/six.fitted hours after the attack was first identified – an internal investigation 
confirms its origins. A hacker found an unpatched vulnerability in Unit /one.fitted’s control system. To mask his 
path, the attacker manipulated firewall rules to bypass the DCS’s intrusion detection system. Unknow -
ingly, the attacker triggered a signature alarm. At the same time, the plant operator noticed an unau -
thorized configuration change in plant operations. A subsequent inventory scan showed a new device 
on the network.
A few days later, on September /seven.fittedth at /zero.fitted/three.fitted:/three.fitted/zero.fitted, a joint investigation by ACMEPower, the industrial control 
system (ICS) vendor, and law enforcement concluded that ACMEPower was the victim of an adversary 
attack focused on embedding malicious code into ICS hardware components. Law enforcement inter -
views with an ACMEPower plant employee revealed that /four.fitted/eight.fitted hours ago he received a package with 
control system vendor labeling, which contained a USB with instructions to update the PDF workflow 
viewer. Even though the plant employee thought receiving updates on a USB was unusual, the package 
looked legitimate and he plugged the USB into the DCS.
On September /one.fitted/zero.fittedth at /zero.fitted/nine.fitted:/zero.fitted/five.fitted, the missing operator has been located; his disappearance was unrelated 
to the incident.
At /one.fitted/one.fitted:/two.fitted/five.fitted, Mr. Provolone instructed his executive team to focus their investigation on eradication and 
phased recovery. The team began work in forensics and attribution, regulatory and public notification, 
and lessons learned.Development /three.fitted
Infection has been eradicatedSimulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /one.fitted/one.fitted
Option /one.fitted:  Establish a team to address cyber supply chain management and halt all vendor 
orders until a full review has been initiated.
Option /two.fitted:  Develop new rules and regulations for all portable media and hardware compo -
nents introduced into the plant environment.
Option /three.fitted:  Establish an IR command center that will serve as a hub for all plant monitoring 
and crisis management.
Option /four.fitted: Immediately issue a press release and inform the public about the incident, 
including open aspects of the investigation.The OptionsOn average, responses 
to past malware days 
attacks took
after an outage. Smaller organizations 
took longer (/eight.fitted/eight.fitted./five.fitted days) than larger   
organizations (/six.fitted/two.fitted./six.fitted days).
ACMEPower now has the opportunity to learn from the incident, improve its protocols, and fix vulnera -
bilities discovered during the investigation. Mr. Provolone’s executive team once again offers competing 
advice on how best to prepare for future incidents.Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /one.fitted/two.fitted
The Challenge
What would you do? What is the best way to put a comprehensive IR playbook in place?
The most impactful decision is to set up a permanent IR command center. The center will convene 
experts and vendors to monitor daily plant operations, gather stakeholders for regular exercises, and 
manage future crises. This command center will house the IR playbook and help all relevant responders 
make better decisions during future incidents.
Establishing a command center can also help organizations proactively shore up defenses. In today’s 
environment, it is safe to assume that an adversary is already within a utilities’ network planning the 
next attack. Too often utilities only refresh security programs based on the last incident.
The Best Practice
We believe that the most important action organizations can take to make their operations resilient is 
to develop and implement an IR playbook. Resiliency is based on three key concepts: visibility, relation -
ships, and speed. These elements are fundamental to developing a forward-looking IR playbook that 
brings together intelligence and leaders under a single umbrella.
Visibility means that utilities can see and understand the complexities of their systems – continuously 
monitoring and investigating potential threats.
Relationships matter in a crisis. The ability to share information throughout a common supply chain 
with trusted vendors make the difference in getting to a resolution. Relationships need to work at all 
levels of the organization with a clearly defined escalation path.
Speed becomes critical during a crisis. Incident response requires system operators to quickly and accu -
rately understand, contain and recover from an attack before its full impact can cause outages or 
spread to other systems.
  Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /one.fitted/three.fitted
This simulation offers several key lessons for utilities and regulators seeking to bolster their IR capabilities. 
In the scenario, Mr. Provolone did many things well, but could have significantly benefited from a stra -
tegic plan. He recognized the importance of factual information and the need to remain open to multiple 
investigative pathways before making a decision.
With the benefit of hindsight, we can also identify opportunities for ACMEPower to detect the attack 
earlier and resolve the incident more quickly. Working backward from the attack, ACMEPower had the 
opportunity to identify:Takeaway Lessons 
The commands that caused thermal stress fatigue.  Commands that cause damage to 
equipment may closely resemble legitimate commands. An operator, or an automated 
system, may be able to use context to identify commands that will cause damage. Both 
vigilance and detailed system knowledge are required to detect this type of attack.
The behavior of the intruder in the network. In the exercise, the intrusion was 
confirmed by examining the logs and discovering that an intruder had been looking for 
an open port. Human operators and automated Artificial Intelligence (AI) monitoring 
may have exposed the intrusion at this stage. Plant operators need the relevant tools 
and discretion to investigate anomalies.
The malware.  Signature-based monitoring can detect malware if it uses code that has 
been identified by other organizations. Security teams need monitoring software, 
access to sources of threat intelligence, and to ensure monitoring covers all pathways 
into the OT environment.
The USB device that introduced the malware.  Practices that eliminate portable 
storage devices in operating environments would prevent this type of threat. All 
personnel must understand portable media policies, as well as broader security 
measures, to address a wide range of insider threats.
The malicious firmware embedded in new equipment. Establishing a common set 
of cybersecurity standards across all vendors can improve the overall security posture in 
the supply chain.Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /one.fitted/four.fitted
The sophistication of attacks 
mean that organizations should 
assume an intruder has already 
breached defences.In this scenario, ACMEPower had these five opportunities to detect and block the attack before a 
blackout could occur. Capitalizing on any of these opportunities depends on establishing the right 
procedures to triage, diagnose and act on an established set of IR procedures.
While this specific exercise involved just one malicious actor attacking multiple vectors, attackers 
can attempt thousands of potential pathways to disrupt an organization’s operations. Many organi -
zations would benefit from increased situational awareness through monitoring of their control 
systems. Even in isolated production environments, the sophistication of attacks means that organi -
zations should assume an intruder has already breached defenses. Identifying and testing against all 
possible attack scenarios should be a routine task in all cybersecurity planning.
At Siemens Energy, we believe strong relationships with our customers, backed by rapidly enacting 
joint response plans, are essential for cybersecurity in the ever-changing environment. As a vendor 
with expertise in developing and deploying digital and industrial cyber equipment in the utility 
sector, Siemens has solutions to help organizations like ACMEPower detect, prevent, and recover 
from cyberattacks.Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /one.fitted/five.fitted
Strong relationships 
with our customers, 
backed by rapidly 
enacting joint 
response plans, are 
essential for cyberse -
curity in the ever-
changing environment.We partner with customers to develop incident 
response plans and provide expert OT support 
– both remote and in the field. Siemens Energy 
develops built-for-purpose solutions, including IR 
forensic and monitoring tools, to contain and 
eradicate malware on plant’s critical systems.
In this new environment, no one can treat cyber -
security as a responsibility that stops with a core 
IR team. Resilient organizations must ensure 
every person understands – and contributes – to 
a culture of situational awareness, active 
response, and continuous improvement.Simulating a Cyberattack on the Energy Industry 
 /one.fitted/six.fitted
Copyright by
Siemens Energy, Inc. 
 
 
For more information, please visit our website: 
https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/offerings/services/digital-
services/cybersecurity.html 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.