Produced in partnership with
Transforming the 
energy industry  
with AIIn the oil and gas industry, 
digitalization is improving 
project economics and 
streamlining operations, with AI  
as the key for sustainable growth 
and security against cyberthreats.  

2  
MIT T echnology Review Insights
Preface
“Transforming the energy industry with AI” is an MIT Technology Review Insights report, 
sponsored by Siemens Energy. The report is based on in-depth interviews with IT and 
cybersecurity leaders at oil and gas companies worldwide, conducted in September and 
October 2020. It examines the operational benefits and cybersecurity vulnerabilities that 
result from the increasing need for companies to digitally transform their businesses, and  
the measures needed to stay secure and competitive in today’s business climate.
We’d like to thank the following executives and industry observers for their time and insight:
Khaled Al Blooshi, Vice President, Digital Products and Innovation,  
Abu Dhabi National Oil Company
Dr. Reem F. Al Shammari, Chief Information Security Officer, Kuwait Oil Company 
Filipe Beato, Project Lead, Centre for Cybersecurity, World Economic Forum
Edward Chiu, Cybersecurity Strategist, Chevron
Phillip Cornell, Senior Fellow, Atlantic Council Global Energy Center
Anna Dubovik, Head of Advanced Analytics and Machine Learning, Gazprom Neft
Chris Foster, Vice President, Information Services, and Chief Information Officer, TC Energy
Javier García Quintela, Chief Information Security Officer, Repsol
Angela Haun, Executive Director, Oil and Natural Gas Information Sharing  
and Analysis Center
Pedro Jatobá, Chief Generation Officer, Eletrobras
Santiago Julian Lopez Galanes, Chief Information Security Officer, Pampa Energía
Ken Munro, Partner, Pen Test Partners
David Myers, Chief Information Officer, Technology Infrastructure and Security, Diversified 
Gas & Oil
Leo Simonovich, Vice President and Global Head, Industrial Cyber and  
Digital Security, Siemens Energy
Sridhar Sudarsan, Chief Technology Officer, SparkCognition

3
MIT T echnology Review Insights
Foreword 
The oil and gas sector has dramatically changed from prior decades. Low prices and market demand 
for decreased environmental impact make efficiency essential for competitive enterprises. Information 
technologies (IT) that revolutionized the wider economy have been repurposed and deployed to 
digitize operating technologies (OT) to produce commercial gains through automation across the 
industry. On the heels of digitization, a subsequent innovation wave uses artificial intelligence (AI) to 
further optimize automated systems. 
These revolutions in the operating environment occurred rapidly and opened a new set of 
opportunities and risks that the oil and gas sector must balance—the benefits of digitalization and the 
need for cybersecurity. With every facet of oil and gas exploration, extraction, refinement, and 
transportation permeated with digital devices, the monitoring and protection of smart infrastructure is 
now an essential part of any oil and gas organization’s operational responsibilities. The tremendous 
financial and geopolitical value of oil and gas products and infrastructure make them attractive targets 
for both criminal organizations and state-backed attackers able to invest significantly in novel attacks. 
Companies in the oil and gas sector will need to not only maintain current defenses, but continually 
improve their cyber resilience—both to detect and prevent attacks, and to withstand and recover from 
those that occur. 
Cybersecurity for the oil and gas sector will require bringing together disparate knowledge bases—  
the innovations flowing from IT and AI researchers, the operation of interlinked oil and gas infrastructure, 
and the cybersecurity practices appropriate to OT environments that bridge the physical and digital 
worlds. Oil and gas organizations increasingly recognize that cybersecurity practices cannot be 
transferred from IT to OT on a one-to-one basis, but must be tailored to the specific needs and 
constraints of a production environment and its equipment. Detecting and preventing attacks on OT 
require monitoring system conditions with context and an understanding of how components and 
conditions interact, and technologies that increasingly adapt AI techniques for efficient and scalable 
cybersecurity.
This report seeks insight from leading practitioners in the oil and gas sector to provide an 
understanding of the state of the industry and its future, with reference to specific case studies. 
Collectively, these insights provide a foundation for future collaboration and partnerships.
One thing is clear: only by working together across these areas of expertise can we hope to secure the 
digital transformation in the oil and gas sector. 
Leo Simonovich
Vice President and Global Head, Industrial Cyber and Digital Security
Siemens Energy 
4  
MIT T echnology Review Insights
0101
CONTENTSPreface  .............................................................................................. 2
Foreword  .......................................................................................... 3
1. Executive summary ................................................................... 5
2. Cybersecurity, AI, and digitalization  .................................... 6
 Operations optimized by AI ............................................................................. 6   
 Interconnectivity and AI ..................................................................................... 7
 Protecting OT systems ...................................................................................... 8
3. Cybersecurity and AI at the core ......................................... 10
 Adopting AI to stay secure ............................................................................. 10
 AI for increased monitoring of OT systems ............................................ 10
 Building a data strategy for AI ....................................................................... 11
4. Partner to secure and transform .......................................... 12
 Partnering for innovation ................................................................................ 12
 Partnering for technology .............................................................................. 13
 Partnering for a collective defense ............................................................ 14
5.  Conclusion: AI is the here and now  
for oil and gas companies ...................................................... 16
 About MIT Technology Review Insights ...................................................  17
 From the sponsor ................................................................................................ 17
5 MIT T echnology Review Insights
0101
For oil and gas companies, digital transformation is 
a priority—not only as a way to modernize the 
enterprise, but also to secure the entire energy 
ecosystem. With that lens, the urgency of applying 
artificial intelligence and machine-learning 
capabilities for optimization and cybersecurity becomes clear, 
especially as threat actors increasingly target connected 
devices and operating systems, putting the oil and gas 
industry in collective danger. The year-over-year explosion in 
industry-specific attacks underscores the need for meaningful 
advancements and maturity in cybersecurity programs. 
However, most companies don’t have the resources to 
implement sophisticated artificial intelligence (AI) programs 
to stay secure and advance digital capabilities on their own. 
Irrespective of size, available budget, and in-house 
personnel, all energy companies must manage 
operations and security fundamentals to ensure they have 
visibility and monitoring across powerful digital tools to 
remain resilient and competitive. The achievement of that 
goal is much more likely in partnership with the right experts.
MIT Technology Review Insights, in association with Siemens 
Energy, spoke to more than a dozen information technology 
(IT) and cybersecurity executives at oil and gas companies 
worldwide to gain insight about how AI is affecting their 
digital transformation and cybersecurity strategies in oil and 
gas operating environments. Here are the key findings:
•  Oil and gas companies are under pressure to adapt  
to dramatic changes in the global business environment. 
The coronavirus pandemic dealt a stunning blow to the 
global economy in 2020, contributing to an extended trend 
of lower prices and heightening the value of increased 
efficiency to compensate for market pressures. Companies 
are now forced to operate in a business climate that necessitates remote working, with the added pressure to 
manage the environmental impact of operations growing 
ever stronger. These combined factors are pushing oil and 
gas companies to pivot to new, streamlined ways of 
working, making digital technology adoption critical.
•  As oil and gas companies digitalize, the risk of 
cyberattacks increases, as do opportunities for AI.  
Companies are adding digital technology for improved 
productivity, operational efficiency, and security. They’re 
collecting and analyzing data, connecting equipment to 
the internet of things, and tapping cutting-edge 
technologies to improve planning and increase profits, 
as well as to detect and mitigate threats. At the same 
time, the industry’s collective digital transformation is 
widening the surface for cybercriminals to attack. IT is 
under threat, as is operational technology—the 
computing and communications systems that manage 
and control equipment and industrial operations.
•  Cybersecurity must be at the core of every aspect of 
companies’ digital transformation strategies. The 
implementation of new technologies affects 
interdependent business and operational functions and 
underlying IT infrastructure. That reality calls for oil and 
gas companies to shift to a risk management mindset. 
This includes designing projects and systems within a 
cybersecurity risk framework that enforces 
companywide policies and controls. Most important, 
they now need to access and deploy state-of-the-art 
cybersecurity tools powered by AI and machine learning 
to stay ahead of attackers.
•  AI is optimizing and securing energy assets and IT 
networks for increased monitoring and visibility. 
Advancements in digital applications in industrial operating 
environments are helping improve efficiency and security, 
detecting machine-speed attacks amidst the complexity of 
the rapidly digitalizing operating environments. 
•  Oil and gas companies look to external partners to guard 
against growing cyberthreats. Many companies have 
insufficient cybersecurity resources to meet their 
challenges head-on. “We are in a race against the speed of 
the attackers,” Repsol Chief Information Officer Javier 
García Quintela explains in the report. “We can’t provide all 
the cybersecurity capabilities we need from inside.” To 
move quickly and address their vulnerabilities, companies 
can find partners that can provide expertise and support as 
the threat environment expands.Executive summary
6  
MIT T echnology Review Insights
0202
OT and IT data, companies see AI as an important tool to 
gain visibility into their digital ecosystems and understand 
the context of their operating environments. Enterprises 
that build cyber-first digital deployments similarly have to 
accommodate emerging technologies, such as AI and 
machine learning, but spend less time on strategic 
realignment or change management. 
Importantly, for oil and gas companies, AI, which may have 
once been reserved for specialized applications, is now 
optimizing everyday operations and providing critical 
cybersecurity defense for OT assets. Leo Simonovich, vice 
president and global head of industrial cyber and digital 
security at Siemens Energy, argues, “Oil and gas 
companies are becoming digital companies, and there 
shouldn’t be a trade-off between security and 
digitalization.” Therefore, Simonovich continues, “security 
needs to be part of the digital strategy, and security needs 
to scale with digitalization.”
To navigate today’s volatile business landscape, oil and 
gas companies need to simultaneously identify Energy sector organizations are presented with 
a major opportunity to deploy artificial 
intelligence (AI) and build out a data strategy 
that optimizes production and uncovers new 
business models, as well as secure operational 
technology. Oil and gas companies are faced with 
unprecedented uncertainty—depressed oil and gas prices 
due to the coronavirus pandemic, a multiyear glut in the 
market, and the drive to go green—and many are making a 
rapid transition to digitalization as a matter of survival. 
From moving to the cloud to sharing algorithms, the oil and 
gas industry is showing there is robust opportunity for 
organizations to evolve with technological changes. 
Operations optimized by AI
In the oil and gas industry, the digital revolution has 
enabled companies to connect physical energy assets 
with hardware control systems and software programs, 
which improves operational efficiency,  reduces costs, and 
cuts emissions. This trend is due to the convergence of 
energy assets connected to operational technology (OT) 
systems, which manage, monitor, and control energy 
assets and critical infrastructure, and information 
technology (IT) networks that companies use to optimize 
data across their corporate environments.
With billions of OT and IT data points captured from 
physical assets each day, oil and gas companies are now 
turning to built-for-purpose AI tools to provide visibility 
and monitoring across their industrial operating 
environments—both to make technologies and operations 
more efficient, and for protection against cyberattacks in 
an expanded threat landscape. Because energy 
companies’ business models rely on the convergence of Cybersecurity, AI,  
and digitalization
Source: Ponemon Institute/ IBM Security1The cost of a data breach in 2020
$6.4 m
for energy companies global average$3.86 m
7
According to Anna Dubovik, head of advanced 
analytics at Russian oil giant Gazprom Neft, the 
company began introductory market research on 
digital technologies in 2017, evaluating offerings 
and identifying resources. Two years ago, it began 
aggressively implementing digital tools, focusing 
on exploration—specifically, seismic analysis. The 
reason, Dubovik says, is the high cost of a mistake 
during the first stages of exploration. Error in this 
step affects every step that follows. Gazprom Neft 
began using AI algorithms to identify exploration 
horizons in its seismic data analysis.
“A year ago, AI was treated by geophysicists as a 
research tool for perspective solutions. But now 
we are rolling out on actual fields, which are either 
in development or in exploration, and have seen 
stunning results." Dubovik continues: "When 
everything went into lockdown, due to the 
coronavirus, people became more inclined to use 
digital transformation tools. This was a perfect 
opportunity to switch on AI, which doesn't fear 
viruses and doesn't need vacation or sick leave. It 
simply does what is required."Gazprom Neft identifies  
exploration horizons with AIoptimization opportunities and cybersecurity gaps in their 
digitalization strategies. That means building AI and 
cybersecurity into digital deployments from the ground up, 
not bolting them on afterward.
Interconnectivity and AI
For companies that work all over the world, centralizing 
data and managing it to optimize exploration and 
production activity is an enormous challenge. The need 
for interconnection has given rise to the industrial internet 
of things (IIoT), ushering in the fourth industrial revolution, 
a new era that builds on and extends the impact of 
digitalization. Communication enabled by connected 
equipment, enormous amounts of data collection, and 
disparate devices is leading to faster and better decision-
making and greater operational efficiencies. And as that 
data collection increases, AI and machine learning will be 
the most efficient and rapid way to interpret and act on it.For oil and gas titans with deep pockets, 
digitalization is recognized as a differentiator 
and, as such, is a well-funded priority. However, 
even small and midsize companies can find 
efficiencies with digitalization. 
Discussions with industry executives provide 
insight into how companies are implementing 
new technologies.Digital transformation 
case study series
AI reduces maintenance 
costs at ADNOC
Digitalization is contributing to time and cost 
savings as well as worker safety at Abu Dhabi 
National Oil Company (ADNOC), according 
to Khaled Al Blooshi, vice president of digital 
products. Before digital programs were used 
in production planning, the cycle was time- 
and labor-intensive, with hundreds of Excel 
spreadsheets moving back and forth among 
business units. “This entire process used to take 
months to do, and any change in our production 
plans was near impossible,” Al Blooshi says.
ADNOC responded by creating digital twins of all 
the company’s assets and plants. “Today, I have 
my entire ADNOC value chain on a simulation 
model,” Al Blooshi explains. “I can run what-if 
scenarios with a couple of clicks to understand, 
for example, the impact of a refinery being down 
for maintenance, or introducing a new crude for 
processing, or initiating kerosene production.” With 
some adjustments to the model over a few hours, 
“we have our new production plan ready to be 
dispatched to the operating companies,” he says.
ADNOC is aiming to reduce maintenance costs by 
20% using AI to improve planning and scheduling 
by evaluating performance data. “We can extend 
the life of the asset and, in some cases, we have 
safely extended the maintenance cycle to tens 
of thousands of hours for several turbines and 
pumps, and we are updating our maintenance 
polices to reflect the same.” Al Blooshi says.
8  
MIT T echnology Review Insights
However, these same digital advantages leave the oil and 
gas industry more vulnerable to attacks. Managing the 
cybersecurity threat to oil and gas operations is 
complicated by aging infrastructure that is often 
disconnected or has intermittent connectivity. When 
companies bolster monitoring capabilities by connecting 
legacy equipment, they commonly use bolt-on 
technologies that provide quick functionality but fail to 
provide adequate cybersecurity. In this way, older assets 
become part of a broader mesh system already carrying 
huge volumes of data from more modern equipment. For 
example, each modern offshore drilling platform is 
outfitted with approximately 80,000 sensors and 
generates an estimated 15 petabytes of data during its 
working life. Solutions need to cover the full breadth of the 
operations portfolio, ranging from intermittently 
connected devices and legacy equipment to high-volume, 
unmanned assets. 
Filipe Beato, project lead at the World Economic Forum’s 
Centre for Cybersecurity, cautions that this 
interconnectivity amplifies cybersecurity challenges and 
must be top of mind for industry decision-makers. “The fourth industrial revolution drove growth and innovation in 
the oil and gas industry, and now more than ever is the 
time to embed cybersecurity in its business models and 
strategies,” he says.
Protecting OT systems
Until recently, cyberattacks primarily targeted IT 
environments, like PCs, workstations, and mobile devices. 
But the convergence and connectedness of IT and OT 
66%
of oil and gas company 
executives say they benefit 
from digitization even with 
increased cybersecurity risk. 
Source: Ponemon Institute/Siemens Energy2David Myers, SVP, chief information officer at 
Diversified Gas & Oil (DGO), says digital 
transformation is the enabler for his company, 
which he describes as “a company that looks like 
and feels like a startup but with existing and 
extensive operations.” 
He explains that growth for DGO means 
acquisition. “We went from approximately 80 
employees in late 2016 to 1,100 employees today, 
and from about 10,000 to 70,000 producing wells, 
with more than $2 billion in acquisitions over the 
last three-and-a-half years.” The scale of growth 
dictates that the company think differently, he 
says. “Mergers and acquisitions is our key 
strategy for future growth and that requires fast, 
efficient, and scalable platforms.” 
Investing in the right technology matters. Myers 
explains, “we made the decision to jump 100% to 
the cloud to support our growth strategy,” and 
that has made all the difference to DGO. Myers 
continues, “[If we hadn't], I’d be fighting a much 
bigger battle from an integration speed and 
flexibility standpoint, as well as our ability to 
implement cybersecurity controls.” For Myers, the 
cloud allows for efficiency and scale, and 
supports data warehousing; and data means 
making better and faster decisions allowing for 
future deployment of AI for even more scale. His 
plan: “First, get our data in order and consistent; 
second, build out business models; and third, use 
AI to automate and scale.” For Diversified Gas & Oil first 
cloud, then AI
9 MIT T echnology Review Insights
means that protecting the entire system against 
cyberattacks is now required. The challenge is to stay 
ahead of attackers that see this newly connected 
environment as an opportunity to disrupt physical devices 
and processes. This type of interference in critical 
infrastructure could have catastrophic security, economic, 
and environmental repercussions.
A case in point is a 2017 cyberattack on a SABIC refinery 
owned by chemical manufacturer Saudi Aramco, which 
investigators believe was intended to cause an 
explosion. The attack was unsuccessful, but it’s 
indicative of a cybersecurity landscape that includes 
aggressive nation-state actors openly targeting one 
another by going after critical infrastructure. Oil and gas 
companies are tackling these fluid safety challenges as 
they adopt new ways of working, including remote 
operations. They’re gathering and analyzing more data to 
identify risks and develop safer protocols as work 
environments change, but a greater reliance on OT data 
makes protecting IT more important than ever. While 
improved communication enhances the ability to manage 
assets and resources, it also broadens the interface 
between IT and OT, creating a dramatically larger attack 
surface for potential hackers.
As Ken Munro, a security expert at Pen Test Partners, 
explains, “People within the IT side of the business want 
management data to improve efficiencies,” but in the 
Pampa Energía has been leading the digitalization 
charge in Argentina. According to Chief Information 
Security Officer Santiago Julian Lopez Galanes, 
in 2019 the company completed a cybersecurity-
maturity assessment of its critical infrastructure 
and began executing a multiyear action plan that, 
according to Lopez, is on par with world-class best 
practices in the industry. 
Current digitalization efforts are directed toward 
optimizing performance and condition-based 
maintenance, including the implementation of an 
online monitoring program that links operations, maintenance, and plant experts, with the support of 
AI and machine-learning software. Lopez notes, “We 
have to facilitate and promote security by design, 
which will enable the secure digital transformation of 
the company.”
For example, in 2020, the company rolled out a 
service for monitoring cybersecurity events to 
ensure “security incidents in OT environments were 
correctly identified, analyzed, defended, investigated, 
and reported.” All of this data is rolled into an 
automated dashboard used by stakeholders to make 
decisions.Pampa Energía promotes security by designprocess of gaining access to OT systems, “network 
segregation has started to break down.” 
Even cyberattacks that are less severe than the SABIC 
incident can still cause significant damage—compromising 
data and devices, interrupting operations, and resulting in 
extensive downtime and lost revenue. They also can 
damage the reputations of targeted companies that lose 
trust with customers dependent on integrity of supply.
With more than 38 billion devices expected to be 
connected to the internet of things this year, the threat 
horizon continues to expand, according to IBM Security’s 
X-Force Threat Intelligence Index 2020.3  The breakdown 
of system segregation is opening the door to cyberattacks 
on industrial control systems and similar OT assets, with 
attacks increasing more than 2,000% from 2018 to 2019. 
The energy sector is the ninth-most targeted industry in 
the X-Force ranking.
“In essence, digitalization and cybersecurity are two sides 
of the same coin,” says Simonovich. That’s because 
advances in digitalization drive the need for greater 
cybersecurity.
And that’s the pinch point for oil and gas companies that 
require industrial cybersecurity solutions—securing 
massive physical operations, as well as the underlying 
software, requires a holistic view on the entire ecosystem.
10  
MIT T echnology Review Insights
0303
Cybersecurity and  
AI at the core 
AI for increased monitoring  
of OT systems
Petrobras, the national oil company in Brazil, established its 
digital transformation program several years ago but has 
seen enormous progress this year as a direct result of the 
covid-19 pandemic, which the company says accelerated 
digitalization and allowed it to accomplish more in six 
months than it expected to achieve over six years.
Petrobras previously instituted an office for digital 
transformation made of three components to align its 
digital journey with the company’s strategic pillars.  
The first applies innovative technologies such as 
scalable infrastructure expansion and cloud-first 
application development, implementation of modern 
architecture, and integration of company data. The 
second promotes the adoption of a culture of digital 
innovation and includes a number of training and 
research facilities. The third component focuses on 
redesigning processes to accommodate digital 
transformation.The move to digital transformation is complex, 
especially when integrating new 
technologies, like AI, which affect a number of 
business and IT functions. The move to a 
more digitalized workplace has changed the 
way projects are executed, shifting the focus from a 
compliance-based decision-making framework to a risk 
management mindset.
Adopting AI to stay secure
For oil and gas companies, getting ahead of cyberthreats 
means gaining visibility into operations to understand 
vulnerabilities and implementing technologies that provide 
depth and scalability. A strong defense must take 
advantage of AI and machine learning to establish 
future-proof protections that can accommodate changes 
in the cyberthreat landscape.
However, the industry has some way to go to reach this 
goal. In a 2018 report, only 36% of oil and gas companies 
had invested in big data and analytics, and a meager 13% 
used the insights gained from technology to enhance 
business intelligence. Companies have not embedded big 
data and analytics completely in their systems, which 
means they aren’t getting full value from the technology.4 
Increasingly, the application of AI to industrial security is 
on their agenda.
11 MIT T echnology Review Insights
18%of energy companies 
use AI to detect 
attackers.
Source: Ponemon Institute and Siemens Energy 5As the rate of digitalization accelerated in 2020 with the 
adoption of cloud computing, AI, and an expanding 
internet of things, Petrobras focused on evolving its IT 
security and applied AI to improve monitoring of critical 
OT systems. In fact, the company uses AI and machine-
learning techniques in a range of business processes  
to improve efficiencies.
Building a data strategy for AI
Spain’s Repsol began talking internally about digitalizing 
operations in 2017 and allocated resources to develop a 
digital transformation plan that has delivered tangible 
results. According to CISO Javier García Quintela, the 
plan facilitated cultural changes that affect every part of 
the company: “how we design our projects, how we build 
our systems, the methodologies that we use, the types of 
technologies, and the strategic vendors we use, and 
even how we deliver IT, interact with customers, and 
make decisions.”
A little more than a year ago, Repsol designed the 
necessary cybersecurity practices to protect its OT 
environments. The high level of automation in its industrial 
systems led Repsol to take a hard look at cybersecurity 
for the OT side of its business as well, and to put in place a 
framework for cybersecurity. “Safety is the top priority,” 
García says, “Current practice introduces not only technology but also roles, ways of working, allocation of 
responsibilities, controls, and policies so cybersecurity 
practices can be managed in a holistic way.”
Real-time data harvesting and management is 
foundational to Repsol’s plans, and the company is 
turning to monitoring to measure and improve 
productivity, track performance, adjust for inefficiencies, 
schedule maintenance work, and make better, faster 
decisions, García says. “That’s the main focus of our 
digital program.” Looking to the future, Repsol is 
introducing AI to analyze and correlate information. 
“When you manage a very high volume of information on 
a recurrent basis, you need to take advantage of AI to 
understand what is happening. The most interesting 
technology for achieving that level of understanding in 
the next years is going to be AI,” he says.
New cybersecurity advancements continue to change 
the cost-benefit proposition for the energy sector. 
Machine-learning tools trained to recognize normal 
operations can identify anomalies and flag potential 
problems, and AI algorithms analyze performance  
data to initiate corrective actions and streamline  
processes. Because these technologies improve as  
they are implemented, they are even more impactful  
over time.
12  
MIT T echnology Review Insights
0404
Partner to secure  
and transformation
An important consideration is how to partner 
with experienced resources, whether that’s 
with a specialized startup or a joint venture to 
form a novel way of working. For example, 
original equipment manufacturers can not 
only secure their own products but increase security 
throughout the entire ecosystem for both OT and IT 
operations, which can help many enterprises. For small 
and medium-sized energy companies, getting this access 
to cutting-edge AI, as well as industry-standard 
monitoring, detection, and cyberattack prevention 
capabilities, is a game-changer. Having a cybersecurity risk strategy available for these smaller companies means 
the entire energy system is more secure.
Partnering for innovation
Real innovation for oil-and-gas-specific cybersecurity is 
happening, and partnerships between original equipment 
manufacturers and tech vendors are bringing it into the 
mainstream, says Siemens Energy’s Simonovich. He 
points to the joint effort by Siemens Energy and AI 
startup SparkCognition to protect entire fleets of assets 
such as pipelines or power generators. The result of their 
work is DeepArmor Industrial, which uses AI to flag 
Gazprom Neft’s Anna Dubovik says AI is 
dramatically changing how the company identifies 
drilling horizons, or potential targets. “The speed 
and accuracy are incredible,” she says. In five days, 
one expert with expensive proprietary software 
identified drilling in 50% of the surveyed area with 
25% traceability; however, AI found horizons in 95% 
of the area with 100% traceability, which tells the 
company exactly where to drill. 
Not only is Gazprom Neft improving its own 
accuracy, the company is sharing what it has 
accomplished with the industry, posting its 
technology on the GitHub development platform. 
“Everybody who is trying to adopt data science in the industry can just take our libraries and the 
data they have inside and adapt them to make 
the digital transformation and AI applications 
faster in their company,” she explains. This move 
also encourages collaboration. “We are hoping 
the tools are improved through open sourcing. 
Everyone who wants to contribute can  
contribute to it.”
Dubovik is optimistic about the potential results: 
“Companies in oil and gas are super closed, and 
very few have entered this niche of open source 
and collaborating. Based on the examples that 
we see in high tech, however, this is definitely the 
direction to go." Gazprom Neft encourages collaboration with AI
13 MIT T echnology Review Insights
“Strategic partnerships 
provide access to more 
experts that we can work 
with and build on each 
other’s strengths to 
enhance our security” 
— Chris Foster, Vice President of Information 
Services and CIO, TC Energycyberthreats targeting end-point energy assets before 
they execute, and home in on never-seen-before 
“zero-day” cyberattacks. The system can ferret out such 
exploits, says SparkCognition CTO Sridhar Sudarsan, 
because machine-learning algorithms “find why 
something becomes malware, and that’s what we go and 
defend against.”
The product can protect systems in any industry, but it’s 
particularly tailored to address scenarios common in oil 
and gas infrastructure—for example, it can work 
autonomously on older assets that aren’t connected to a 
network—by providing protection on the edge customized 
to client workflows. That precision defense is owed to the 
unique chemistry of the partnership, says Sudarsan—
namely, Siemens Energy's long history of protecting oil 
and gas facilities and SparkCognition’s native AI 
know-how.
“If we do this by ourselves, we don’t have the experience 
of every single asset and environment, and if Siemens 
Energy tries to do this on their own, they don’t have the 
software and the AI experience and the expertise that 
we have.” Sudarsan continues, “By coming together, we 
were able to innovate and scale to solve a largely 
unaddressed space.”
Partnering for technology 
Alongside the collaborative work among tech companies 
to bring together AI and cybersecurity is another kind of 
partnership: that between vendors and oil and gas 
companies themselves. As they adopt new technologies, 
improve operations, and streamline activity, many are also 
looking for opportunities to outsource essential 
cybersecurity operations. Some of this is driven by 
shrinking budgets.
A recent report by global energy consultancy Wood 
Mackenzie examined the effects of the market on oil and 
gas companies.6  Analyst Preston Cody believes current 
conditions are forcing change. “Before the 2020 crisis, 
the dominant attitude in the industry was to build 
analytics capabilities in-house,” he writes. The approach 
wasn’t terribly effective. The reason is, “true expertise in 
data management and analytics is outside traditional 
upstream core competencies.” He contends that as low 
oil prices persist, companies will be more inclined to add 
to their digital toolboxes by buying, not building, 
technology, and finding ways to collaborate.Chevron has been on its digital journey for 
several years now and cybersecurity strategist 
Edward Chiu believes his company has made 
considerable progress. “We are still pretty early 
in our AI journey,” he says, “but we are putting a 
lot of emphasis on AI, machine learning, business 
analysis, and streamlining business workflows. 
Any AI technique we can use to improve our 
business’ bottom line, we’re exploring—on 
petrotechnical and other IT applications, including 
cyberdefense and analytics,” he says.
Chiu and his team evaluate new technologies 
and the potential for applying them at Chevron. 
“We try to divide the emerging technologies 
into different horizons,” he says, explaining that 
a “horizon” indicates the level of maturity of a 
technology and when it’s likely to be implemented. 
“In terms of cybersecurity, we identify the security 
impact of emerging technologies in different 
horizons, and we always look at deployment 
potential.”AI and cybersecurity work  
together at Chevron
14  
MIT T echnology Review Insights
For some companies, this approach is new. Others saw the 
value in finding strong technology partners earlier on. Saudi 
Aramco took a big step toward broader partnering in 
2017, when it signed a memorandum of understanding 
with tech company Honeywell to increase throughput 
and production and improve the reliability of its 
operations by using Honeywell’s cloud-based and 
predictive analytics services. In a statement, the 
company said the agreement “supports the development 
and diversification of Saudi Arabia’s oil and gas sector 
and accelerates the benefits of the IIoT within Saudi 
Aramco’s operations.” According to Saudi Aramco 
president and CEO Amin H. Nasser, the decision to 
partner with technology leaders adds strategic value to 
the company, the sector, and the “country as a whole.” 7
Other companies looking to cloud services like Amazon Web 
Services for innovation rely on them for cybersecurity as 
well. “It doesn’t mean that they pawn off the responsibility for 
information security to Amazon,” the Atlantic Council’s 
Cornell says, “but those services are definitely secure 
enough as long as they are managed right.”
For Chris Foster, vice president of information services 
and chief information officer at North American pipeline 
company TC Energy, the exciting part is not being in the 
cloud, which he says is “just someone else’s computer.” The transformational piece is the access to otherwise 
prohibitively costly tools. 
“One of the challenges in cyberspace is that things are 
moving so fast,” Foster says. “The volume of connected 
devices is growing exponentially,” and this makes keeping 
up with security extremely difficult, particularly in a sector 
that uses infrastructure designed 30 or 40 years ago.
As he sees it, the smartest way to improve cybersecurity 
quickly is to expand the cybersecurity team with 
experienced partners. “Although we’ve got some smart and 
experienced people that understand and are committed to 
advancing our cybersecurity posture and program, 
strategic partnerships provide access to more experts that 
we can work with and build on each other’s strengths to 
enhance our security,” Foster says. “AWS might be the 
biggest cybersecurity company you’ve never heard of—
because that’s not how they advertise themselves—but 
they’re absolutely one of our partners now.”
Partnering for a collective defense
For many companies, partnering is a way to advance 
cybersecurity rapidly enough to move past the threats 
presented by today’s hackers. Repsol, for example, 
works with a range of partners to add expertise to its 
in-house team.
ADNOC began its digitalization journey early, 
implementing from the outset programs that Khaled 
Al Blooshi, vice president for digital products, 
describes as “transformational.” The company moved 
swiftly to employ technologies to create efficiencies 
and improve project planning and execution and has 
been at the forefront of adoption.
In October 2020, ADNOC took its technology 
program to a new level with the formation of an AI 
joint venture company with Abu Dhabi-based cloud 
computing company Group 42.
The joint venture, called AIQ, will develop and 
commercialize AI products and applications specifically for the oil and gas industry. According 
to Sultan Al Jaber, the United Arab Emirates’ 
minister of industry and advanced technology and 
ADNOC Group CEO, the goal is “to accelerate 
the development of new AI solutions to optimize 
processes, improve planning, and increase profitability 
for ADNOC and the wider oil and gas industry.” 8  
The formation of AIQ follows other ADNOC 
transformation initiatives that include the AI and big 
data-driven Panorama Digital Command Center, big 
data modeling tools for value chain optimization, 
computer-vision technologies, predictive 
maintenance machine-learning technologies, and 
blockchain for hydrocarbon accounting.ADNOC partners for AI innovation
15 MIT T echnology Review Insights
“We are in a race against the speed of the attackers,” 
CISO García explains. “We can’t provide all the 
cybersecurity capabilities we need from inside. We work 
with different companies for different types of services, 
and all those companies bring valuable knowledge.” 
Pedro Jatobá, chief generation officer at Eletrobras, the 
national power generation transmission company in Brazil, 
says partnering is allowing the company to modernize its 
infrastructure, which includes 71,000 km of long-distance 
transmission lines, some constructed in the 1960s. To make 
the kind of rapid progress necessary, the company needs to 
work with outside experts, Jatobá says. And it is doing so with 
the cooperation and significant contribution from universities 
and industrial players like SparkCognition and Siemens 
Energy, as well as a continued partnership with SAP.
Kuwait Oil Company’s CISO Dr. Reem F. Al Shammari 
sees advantages in collaborating for stronger cyber 
defenses in what she refers to as “a trusted circle of 
sharing threat intelligence.” This approach makes 
defending against cyberattacks more effective and 
resilient, she says. “We are stronger together. When we 
trust each other and communicate, when we share 
strategies and best practices, when we collaborate in this 
rapidly changing industry, our collaboration will be crucial 
and productive, empowering us and giving us a better 
cybersecurity posture for our operations against the ever 
increasing threat landscape.”
There’s also more help out there today, says Cornell. 
Industry groups are better equipped to help smaller 
companies that are trying to design and implement an 
effective cybersecurity strategy. “There are resources out 
there more than there ever have been in the past.”
One organization focused on collaborating across the 
industry is the nonprofit Oil and Natural Gas Information 
Sharing and Analysis Center. Its mission is to serve as a 
central point of coordination for the industry and foster 
trust among industry member companies, partner 
organizations, and government agencies. The organization 
facilitates communication, allowing companies to share 
and analyze timely cyberthreat information to help protect 
exploration and production, transportation, refining, and 
delivery systems.
“The importance of collaboration cannot be emphasized 
enough,” says Angela Haun, executive director. “Building relationships and developing trust is fundamental to 
effective collaboration.” Without the ability to discuss 
cyber issues in a safe place, oil and gas companies are at 
an enormous disadvantage.
Beato of the World Economic Forum agrees. The risk of oil 
and gas operations being hacked or compromised is real, 
and most companies do not have the resources to tackle 
this problem alone given the complexity of oil and gas 
supply chains. “Only through public-private collaboration 
with all stakeholders will we achieve effective cyber 
resilience across the industry.”“ Collaboration gives us a 
better cybersecurity posture 
for our operations against 
the ever increasing threat 
landscape.”
—Dr. Reem F. Al Shammari, Chief Information 
  Security Officer, Kuwait Oil Company
16  
MIT T echnology Review Insights
0505
Conclusion: AI is the here and now 
for oil and gas companies
Oil and gas companies jolted into remote work 
and accelerated digital transformation will 
continue on that path. Those companies 
already on their digital journey are poised to 
leap ahead with AI. The mantra many take 
up will be “spend money to make money" —but the winners 
will take advantage of digitization by also adopting modern 
cybersecurity efforts now with a more aggressive move to 
the cloud and beyond.• As vaccines roll out, the global economy will come 
back, too. But even as oil prices inevitability rise, the oil 
and gas industry will continue to consolidate and 
modernize to glean efficiencies and save on costs in the 
energy transition.
• Adopting and scaling AI will increase. There will be a 
growing need for companies to further automation, 
machine learning, and AI capabilities to not just compete 
but make the best use of the immense amount of data 
now captured because of digital transformation efforts.
• Cybersecurity needs AI to complete cyberdefense. 
The fight to avoid and contain ever-more sophisticated 
cybersecurity attacks will necessitate focused 
cybersecurity and AI efforts.
• Small and midsize companies will benefit from 
partnerships. There is no “go-it-alone” strategy. 
Partnering will help companies fulfill the expertise gap and 
ultimately stay secure—especially these small and 
midsize oil and gas enterprises that are an integral, but 
vulnerable, part of the ecosystem.
While every effort has been taken to verify the accuracy of this information, MIT Technology Review Insights cannot accept any responsibility or liability for reliance on any person 
in this report or any of the information, opinions, or conclusions set out in this report.
© Copyright MIT Technology Review Insights, 2021. All rights reserved.About MIT T echnology Review Insights
MIT Technology Review Insights is the custom publishing division of MIT Technology Review, the world’s 
longest-running technology magazine, backed by the world’s foremost technology institution—producing  
live events and research on the leading technology and business challenges of the day. Insights conducts 
qualitative and quantitative research and analysis in the US and abroad and publishes a wide variety of content, 
including articles, reports, infographics, videos, and podcasts. And through its growing MIT Technology Review 
Global Panel, Insights has unparalleled access to senior-level executives, innovators, and thought leaders 
worldwide for surveys and in-depth interviews.
Illustrations
Illustrations assembled by Scott Shultz Design. Cover: Oil refinery, Davooda; Shield icon, VectorCookies, Shutterstock. Internal page elements by Anton Shaparenko, 
Cube29, Nanmulti, CkyBe, Turbodesign, Shutterstock.From the sponsor
Siemens Energy is a global industrial powerhouse operating across the entire energy ecosystem. Focused on 
the areas of electrification and digitalization, we draw on a 170-year heritage as a producer of mechanical, 
electrical, and control systems to deliver innovative cybersecurity solutions for the industrial operating 
environment. We bring over 30 years of unique security insights and expertise to protecting the world’s critical 
infrastructure. Siemens helps energy companies harness the power of digitalization and place cybersecurity at 
the center of their business models. We leverage artificial intelligence, deep domain expertise, and global reach 
to help energy companies of all sizes monitor, detect, and prevent attacks before they occur. Our cybersecurity 
solutions are designed to secure the complete operating environment, from the wellhead to the power meter, 
working seamlessly across digitally native and legacy assets. Siemens Energy works hand-in-hand with 
customers and partners to build digital trust, collective defenses, and resiliency toward an efficient, clean, and 
secure energy future.
References
1.  “Cost of a Data Breach Report 2020,” Ponemon Institute and IBM Security.  
2.  “Caught in the Crosshairs: Are Utilities Keeping Up with the Industrial Cyber Threat?,” Ponemon Institute and Siemens Energy, 2019. 
3.  “X-Force Threat Intelligence Index 2020,” IBM X-Force Incident Response and Intelligence Services, February 2020.
4.  “Global Big Data in Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Market - Analysis of Growth, Trends and Forecasts (2018-2023),” Market Reports World, February 8, 2018.
5.  “Caught in the Crosshairs: Are Utilities Keeping Up with the Industrial Cyber Threat?,” Ponemon Institute and Siemens Energy, 2019. 
6.  “Have budget cuts stalled digitalisation initiatives?” Wood Mackenzie, August 2020.
7.  “Honeywell And Saudi Aramco Advance Digitization Of Oil And Gas Industry With New Agreement,” (press release) Honeywell, May 23, 2017. 
8.  “ADNOC and Abu Dhabi-Based Group 42 Launch AIQ – an Artificial Intelligence Joint Venture Company,” (press release) Abu Dhabi National Oil Company. October 2020.Laurel Ruma and Jason Sparapani edited the report, and Nicola Crepaldi was the publisher. The views expressed within 
are those of MIT Technology Review Insights, which is editorially independent.
MIT T echnology Review Insights
www.technologyreview.com
@techreview @mit_insights
insights@technologyreview.com
