Caught in the Crosshairs:
Are Utilities Keeping Up with 
the Industrial Cyber Threat?
ASSESSING OPERATIONAL READINESS OF THE GLOBAL UTILITIES SECTOR
This is the third collaboration between the Ponemon Institute and Siemens Energy examining how the 
global energy industry is meeting the growing cyber threat against critical inffrastructure.
2 3
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?The Ponemon Institute conducts independent research on privacy, data
protection and information security policy. Our goal is to enable organizations in
both the private and public sectors to have a clearer understanding of the trends
in practices, perceptions and potential threats that will affect the collection,
management and safeguarding of personal and confidential information about
individuals and organizations. Ponemon Institute research informs organizations
on how to improve upon their data protection initiatives and enhance their brand
and reputation as a trusted enterprise.
In addition to our research, Ponemon Institute provides strategic consulting to
private and public sector organizations interested in establishing or enhancing
their privacy, data protection, and security practices. To ensure that their goals
are achieved, organizations engage us to assess their practices and conduct
workshops and training programs.
Ponemon Institute is the parent organization of the Responsible Information
Management (RIM) Council. The RIM Council draws its name from the practice
of Responsible Information Management, an ethics-based framework and longterm
strategy for managing personal and sensitive employee, customer and
business information.
For more information go to:
https://www.ponemon.org/Given the probability of a cyber breach is nearly 100 percent, the question for
executives and security professionals becomes not whether to act, but how?
Holistic cyber security emphasizes not only the need to prevent an attack but
also the game plan for how to respond.
At Siemens Energy, we take our customers on a cyber security journey that brings
maturity to their industrial enterprise. This means starting with a risk-based
strategy that deals in fundamentals, transforms an organization’s response to the
environment, and most importantly, builds their capacity to monitor and respond
to threats. These threats range from connected assets in the field to control
centers that run critical infrastructure, to the enterprise networks that make up
the new energy value chain.
This agility is essential to dealing effectively with the growing cyber threat.
The organizations that move proactively to build their capability to detect
vulnerabilities, and respond to attacks, will be best positioned to meet the
challenges and opportunities of a digital economy. For Siemens Energy, a secure
industrial world is an essential component of our vision for an energy industry
that leverages digitalization and intelligent infrastructure.
In the past decade, Siemens Energy has invested over $10 billion to make digitaliza-
tion a core part of our own business transformation. Now we are making our industri-
al cyber capability and its complementary external offerings available to our
customers.Ponemon Institute Siemens Energy Industrial Cyber

4 5
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?
The new industrial revolution is transforming the way utilities do business. Rapid
replacement of traditional generation with renewables, like solar and wind, combined
with digital performance management, is increasingly becoming a source of 
competitive advantage.
Recognizing that digitalization brings both clear benefits and the possibility of
disproportionate risks, Siemens Energy and the Ponemon Institute returned to our 
cybersecurity collaboration for a new report assessing the state of cybersecurity in 
the utility industry. We sought to assess the maturity of the industry’s cybersecurity 
practices, as well as the type and degree of the threat observed by operators 
in the field. In doing so, we hope to better prepare organizations to benchmark 
cybersecurity efforts and bolster their defenses.
We found that the level of threat to Operational Technologies (OT) has indeed 
increased. Attacks now target energy infrastructure with growing severity. Successful 
attacks can cause shutdowns to critical product system, including safety systems. 
Meanwhile, many organizations report pain points in effectively aligning OT and 
Information Technologies (IT) cyber defenses.
Across the energy industry, many organizations share the difficult challenge of keeping 
ahead of attackers, while taking advantage of digitalization. We at Siemens Energy 
and the Ponemon Institute believe that by building awareness, covering common blind 
spots and sharing best practices, we can strengthen the industry’s resilience.
The stakes are high, but together, we can deliver on the promises offered by
digitalization. We jointly can ensure new technologies bring efficiency, threat 
detection, and reliability, even in the context of increased attacks.Foreword
Leo Simonovich
VP and Global Head
Industrial Cyber, Siemens Energy
6 7
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?
Siemens Energy and the Ponemon Institute are pleased to present results of a survey 
“Are Utilities Keeping Up with the Industrial Cyber Threat? Assessing the Operational
Readiness of the Global Utilities Sector”. The study surveyed a range of utility
professionals responsible for securing or overseeing Operational Technologies
(OT) assets. Research was conducted to gain a clearer picture of utilities’ existing
capabilities, levels of preparedness, vulnerabilities, and strategic understanding of
their OT cyber risk.
To help make our key findings and conclusions clear and actionable, they have been
grouped into three areas: Risk, Readiness and Solutions.
The survey results show that risk is worsening, with potential for severe financial,
environmental and infrastructure damage. Industry-wide, readiness is uneven and
has common blind spots. In particular, this report highlights the unique cybersecurity
requirements for OT, and the importance of distinguishing between security for OT
and security for Information Technology (IT). This remains a major challenge for many
organizations across the industry.
Industry leaders can, and should, check their organizations’ readiness and implement
solutions that keep up with the proliferation of both new, connected technologies 
and existing assets operating in brownfield environments.
This report provides three sections to assist leaders in assessing and improving their
readiness against the growing cyber threat:
Our aim in this report is to increase awareness of the expanding risk to operating
environments, provide insights to assist leaders in discovering blind spots within their
organization, and raise the overall level of maturity across the industry.Summary
Risk: discusses risks reported around the world and across the industry, 
including the damage that would result from incoming threats.
Readiness: looks at how organizations are currently responding to the threat 
environment, the self-assessment of capabilities compared to anticipated 
attacks, and known gaps in preparedness.
Solutions: offers frameworks for thinking about how your organization can 
bolster their capabilities and stay ahead of the threat.

8 9
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?

10 11
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?In the past five years, digitalization has transformed the utility industry. The rapid
adoption of connected power generation, transmission, distribution, and enduse
assets are enabling utilities to move away from centralized power generation
technologies, and towards distributed energy. Coupling grid assets with software
has served as a boon for utilities to reduce carbon emissions through distributed
power generation, like wind and solar, but also by improving the efficiency of existing
brownfield assets.
As the utility industry continues its transition from analogue to digital, from
centralized power generation to a distributed system of natural gas and renewable
energy, existing OT technologies are increasingly equipped with IT software to help
operators provide the benefits of digitalization to their customers.
At the board level, utility executives are increasingly investing in connected
technologies, such as edge and cloud computing, to help gather data and make
better technical and market decisions. This data helps executives extend asset life;
improve reliability and efficiency; and drive uptime and ultimately better asset yields.
Introduction
IT
Information
TechnologyOT
Operational
Technology
12 13
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?While the deployment of digital and networked equipment through the operating
environment greatly increases the control and intelligence that organizations have
over grid assets, these same technologies provide malicious attackers with new 
targets within a broader, more complex attack surface.
In an effort to digitize their fleet, utilities historically viewed cyber security as an
afterthought. Even when new OT assets are designed with security in mind, they are
often connected to broader critical infrastructure which lacks systemic security 
controls. As utility executives incorporate distributed and digitally connected grid 
technologies into their asset portfolios, their ability to withstand a cyber-attack is 
limited at best.
The target of attacks has shifted toward OT. The majority of respondents agree that 
cyber threats are a greater risk in the OT than the IT environment. Where past attacks 
primarily targeted data theft, current and future attacks can hijack control systems 
and logic controllers that operate critical infrastructure with the intent to cause 
physical damage and outages. This year, the majority of global utilities surveyed say, 
cyber threats present a greater business risk from their OT than their IT environment. 
Utilities are concerned by the unique characteristics of OT environments, including a 
focus on availability, reliability and safety.
The risk that cyber attacks pose to the OT environment is increasing in frequency and 
potency as malicious actors’ ability to accurately target critical infrastructure assets 
improves, causing even greater consequences for utility sector operators, managers, 
and executives.
Across the industry:The potency of attacks has increased as well. When asked what made management 
of OT security challenging, the most frequent response was the rise of sophisticated 
attacks. Because many utilities manage infrastructure critical to daily life, nationstates 
and other malicious actors have an interest in developing cyber weapons that target 
utilities. Individuals and criminal organizations may now also have the backing of 
nation-states, or state-aligned proxy groups, interested in damaging physical assets, 
and may use potent cyber warfare tools originally developed by nation-states.of respondents say sophisticated attacks are a top challenge.
except an attack on critical infrastructure in the next 12 months.The frequency of attacks has increased, with respondents reporting:
Risk
report at least one attack involving a loss of private information or 
an outage in the OT environment in the past 12 months.
report 10 or more such attacks within the past 12 months.
of cyberattacks on OT are not detected.
“Cyber threats present a greater risk to 
their OT than the IT environment.”
14 15
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?For example, the powerful WannaCry or NotPetya attacks, which affected 25% of 
all respondents in the past two years, are public examples of attacks that harness 
expertise developed by nation-state actors. Unlike ransomware attacks seeking 
financial information, these attacks systematically destroyed information and 
shutdown operations. Paying ransom often does not help restore operations.
As utilities transform their operations into digital enterprises, the surface for cyber 
attacks have expanded and will likely expand further into OT. The resulting risks to an 
organization’s physical assets, financial liability, and reputation are high. Executives 
concerned about risk must pay attention to cybersecurity for OT. Utility leaders 
must recognize that attackers today design threats against utilities with increasing 
sophistication – both in terms of their destructive capabilities and their ability to 
identify weak points in security regimes.
The potential consequence and cascading effects of attacks have expanded, as 
illustrated by the impact of OT security events on business operations.
The impact of these expanded risks is serious. Cyberattacks can cripple operations 
that depend on networked and real-time information, and respondents reported fear 
that outages, damage, injury, and environmental disaster could result from cascading 
effects on power systems. As the utility industry’s technologies are increasingly 
connected to an IT network and a business model dependent on their continuous 
performance, the stakes for OT security increase. This is especially the case as 
operators must protect distributed power generation assets tens or hundreds of miles 
from a company’s headquarters.Our survey shows that readiness across the industry is uneven due to multiple factors
that range from:
Respondents gave mixed assessments of their own organizations’ readiness to meet 
or respond to cyberattacks. Only 42% rated their cyber readiness as high, and only 
31% were fully ready to respond to, or contain, a breach.
Readiness
42% rated their cyber 
readiness as high
31% readiness to 
respond or contain a 
breach as high
Technical capabilities to 
identify threats
A clear understanding of 
risk-based best practicesCompliance with 
regulatory regimesInternal organizational 
failures

17
Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat? 16
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities SectorThis has caused many organizations to report blind spots related to OT:
The complexity of addressing OT results from a convergence of factors – ranging from 
an inability to manage the external threat environment to immature internal compliance 
structures and organizational processes - internal to address the growing threat.As a whole, and despite improvement in developing regimes to address external and 
internal threats, the industry remains vulnerable to attack; companies are proving too 
slow to detect new threats; and are unprepared to recover from successful attacks on 
OT infrastructure.
Smaller organizations reported significantly greater concern in their ability to 
complete critical cybersecurity tasks, were less confident in their ability to understand 
the operational implications of an attacks, and act based on those alerts. Compared 
with larger organizations, utilities with less than five thousand employees reported 
consistently lower confidence in their ability to identify and contain threats, monitor 
infrastructure, and determine which resources were most important to protect.Lack of visibility 
into operating 
assets
Lack of 
investment in 
training and 
personnel
Lack of alignment 
between OT and 
IT securityZero-day risks, often 
associated with global 
mega attacks or 
industrial safety event
Human capital gaps, 
including difficulty 
procuring and building 
industrial cyber skillsLack of response 
plan and a slow 
response to past 
incidents
Incorrect belief 
that protections 
designed for IT are 
effective for OT
“Smaller utilities reported consistently 
lower confidence in their ability to 
identify and contain threats.”
19
Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat? 18
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities SectorMany organizations reported using a compliance centered approach to manage 
cybersecurity risk. Organizations comply with regulations or develop an internal 
checklist to hold themselves to specified standards and practices. This approach 
has improved overall cyber hygiene across the industry. However, respondents 
acknowledge achieving compliance with regulations is not synonymous with 
achieving strong security posture. Organizations that rely on a compliance approach 
alone maybe responding to past incidents and may remain exposed to novel attacks.
For large global operators, complying with a patch work of compliance regimes is 
burdensome and uneven. Practitioners from those companies report a common 
shift to risk-based methods that aspire to the highest security levels when measured 
against business priorities. Even where organizations develop their own standards, 
these are viewed as leveling-up security, not eliminating risk.
Looking beyond compliance,
Yet, respondents noted that significant blind spots remain prevalent across the 
utility industry. Less than one third of survey respondents believed their OT and 
IT security approaches aligned, which suggests that utilities have a considerable 
capability gap that can be exploited. This disconnect is magnified by the internal 
organizational siloes that exist within companies, particularly between teams working 
with centralized power generation units, distributed and micro-grid systems, and 
transmission and distribution divisions. Irrespective of what governance or operating 
model is chosen, ownership and appropriate resourcing to address industrial cyber 
security is critical to ensuring a secure enterprise.organizations report using a risk-management approach to protect
high value assets, prioritize investments, and act in a chaotic threat
environment. This approach seeks to assess risks and address high-risk
areas.

20 21
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?

23
Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat? 22
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities SectorThe process of digitizing equipment – replacing or adding digital controls to analog 
equipment – helps utility managers increase their visibility into the operating status 
of assets in their fleet. Visibility also enhances cybersecurity capabilities by enabling 
operators to better understand the current status of connected assets. At its most 
basic level, it means knowing what is and is not connected in the OT environment, as 
well as how those assets behave to spot potential anomalies. Only by understanding 
what’s happening in their production environment can operators build the confidence 
to take proportionate action.
However, respondents rated their organizations’ ability to achieve comprehensive 
and continuous visibility of digital assets as low – with organizations in the United 
States and Europe reporting the lowest level of maturity among the other regions. 
This should concern leaders in all areas of the utility industry. It is difficult to provide 
meaningful security on a network when operators do not know what equipment 
exists within that network.AI and big data analysis are used by a minority of organizations to monitor operations 
and recognize threats, like insider threat. Yet:
While a minority of utilities use big data and AI today, these tools can help 
organizations overcome sleeping malware and the detection of unknown threats. 
Using advanced analytics, security professionals can identify anomalies in their asset 
behavior. With visibility and context, an analyst can trace bi-directionally activity from 
the OT network to the IT network; identify gaps and unpatched systems that enabled 
an adversary to enter a plant; and establish control and lie dormant -- waiting to take 
over and force a shutdown.
Some threats by definition cannot be anticipated. Zero-day attacks exploit security 
vulnerabilities that are unknown until the attack occurs. Across the industry, 
respondents rated this risk as second only to insecure endpoints, showing widespread 
awareness that novel attacks can occur. When faced with a zero-day attack, utilities 
must respond rapidly to prevent, mitigate, or – where the attack is successful – 
recover from its impact.of respondents reported using big data or AI monitoring, with the practice 
most common in the United States (23%).
Exacerbating the visibility challenge for OT security is the common belief that OT 
systems benefit from isolation. Isolation-based solutions such as “air gaps” are 
common in IT, but have the additional effect of hampering visibility for OT systems. 
Respondents mentioned isolated and fragmented systems as the third most 
challenging aspect of cybersecurity, close behind the sophistication of attacks and the 
lack of skilled personnel. Air gaps should not be treated as a panacea for OT security, 
especially when considering the risk of insider threat.
“Insider threat represents the 
majority of attacks in OT.”
“18% of respondents reported 
using big data or AI.”
25
Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat? 24
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities SectorDespite the risk that a novel attack will exploit unknown gaps in security:
The slow response times and lack of preparation indicate major opportunities to 
improve preparedness. Organizations should ensure that in the event of a successful 
breach of security, their teams will have some ability to coordinate responses and 
prioritize recovery efforts.Compared to large organizations, small organizations were more likely to engage 
third parties to overcome the manpower shortage, particularly for monitoring and 
detection services.
Recognizing that each organization has unique assets, personnel, and appetite for 
risk, we offer a few broad frameworks for building systems that continually improve 
security. Rather than prescribing one solution, the framework helps employees across 
a utility’s enterprise evaluate and improve their cybersecurity systems.Most concerning, respondents industrywide indicated a critical human capital gap. 
People with appropriate skills are scarce – in every region around the world, more 
than half of respondents indicated their organization’s staffing level was not adequate 
to meet cybersecurity objectives in the OT environment.
In general, addressing cyber security requires expertise from control engineers, 
security specialists and network specialists, often working together. Where these skills 
are lacking, organizations may be unable to correctly evaluate solutions offered by 
contractors, leading to incomplete protections and missed opportunities.
Despite the human capital challenge identified in the survey, the industry overall 
is investing more resources into technology and compliance than into training 
or personnel. This investment pattern was even more pronounced for small 
organizations, where training was reported as less than 10% of available resources, 
and compliance took up more than 30% of resources.of respondents say their organization has no response plan for cyber 
attacks. On average, responses to past malware attacks took 72 days 
after an outage.
Smaller organizations took longer (88.5 days) than larger 
organizations (62.6 days).
Solutions
Strong cybersecurity approaches for OT will 
consider:
Robust systems for ongoing secutiry should 
be built to:“Compliance took up more than 
30% of resources in smaller 
organizations.”
26 27
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?We believe that leaders across the industry should start by assigning ownership, 
checking for the blind spots identified in this report, getting visibility into their own 
systems, and prioritizing investment in industrial security.
Given the rising stakes and escalating threat environment, even leaders at well-
prepared organizations need to consider how to maintain readiness at the threat 
frontier. Based on common themes among survey responses, we offer the following 
frameworks for thinking about how to improve cyber security for OT.To put another way, organizations need to have the capability to:
Building these capabilities requires support and planning within an organization. 
Good leadership can put technical experts in position for success and can help avoid 
institutional barriers that slow or block strong OT security practices. We recommend:Keep up with changes in technology, business models, and attack 
modes. Utilities will face attacks that have never been seen before, and 
you need to be able to answer.
Detect when an attack or other anomaly occurs. Increasing use of 
digitization offers greater self-awareness of conditions in your systems. 
AI and big data monitoring are not yet widely adopted, but may help 
with this challenge in the near and medium-term future.
Respond when an incident is detected. At a minimum, organization 
should have a basic plan for responding to cyber attacks that succeed. 
Knowing in advance which assets to protect, and what priorities will be 
if an outage or other damage occurs can help teams restore service and 
minimize financial and reputational damage.
Clear ownership for OT security within organization. Assign a specific 
person responsibility for security and make their chain of command 
clear all the way to the C-suite. The rising stakes for security in the 
OT environment make good cyber hygiene a pressing issue for any 
organization in the utility sector.
Develop a strategy to get the visibility, skill set and security 
improvements around organization’s needs. Back that strategy with 
budget and resources, so that it can be implemented. Include a plan 
for responding to successful, unanticipated attacks, to help reduce risk 
from future zero-day attacks.
Iteratively implement your cyber security strategy. Cyber security 
cannot be solved immediately or permanently, but leaders and experts 
together can prioritize risks. Securing critical resources can reduce risk 
rapidly. Plan with an expectation that security needs will change over 
time. Utilities will need to adjust defenses as new attacks develop, and 
as business needs change.

28 29
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?Cybersecurity for the OT environment sits in the crossfire of an ongoing arms race. 
Attackers and defenders will continue to innovate, and the systems used by utilities 
under normal operation will continue to advance. A sophisticated business that uses 
digital technologies to operate more efficiently than competitors needs to protect 
those technologies from attacks. Leaders within the utility industry need to allocate 
attention and resources to their cyber defenses commensurate with the increased risk 
to their businesses.
As this survey shows, readiness varies widely across organizations, and numerous 
blind spots affect even well-prepared organizations. It is our hope that this report 
helps leaders recognize these blind spots within their own organizations and provides 
some guidance for next steps.
While cyber security needs are complex and constantly developing, we believe that 
organizations that plan for ongoing learning and iterative improvements can reduce 
their risk significantly. This is a major but manageable challenge.Conclusion
30 31
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities Sector Caught in the Crosshairs: Are utilities keeping up with the industrial cyber threat?This report is a collaboration between Siemens Energy and the Ponemon Institute. 
It focuses on cyber risk in OT environments at electric utilities with gas, solar, wind 
assets, and water utilities, throughout North America, Europe, Middle East, the Asia-
Pacific, and Latin America. The research was conducted to gain a clearer picture of 
utilities’ existing capabilities, levels of preparedness, vulnerabilities, and strategic 
understanding of their OT cyber risk.Report Methodology
This report is a collaboration between Siemens and the Ponemon Institute. 
It focuses on cyber risk in OT environments at electric utilities with gas, 
solar, wind assets and water utilities, throughout North America, Europe, 
Middle East, the Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. The research was 
conducted to gain a clearer picture of utilities’ existing capabilities, levels 
of perparedness, vulnerabilities, and strategic understanding of their OT 
cyber risk.
utility professionals responded to a series of questions related to cyberse-
curity, providing self-assessments on key areas of their company’s 
technical and corporate readiness to address the increasing threat of cyber 
attacks. All respondents indicated their job involved securing or overseeing 
cyber risks in the OT environemtn. They described their roles as:In total
1,726
Veribus dolorpro | Rubrik, Artikel
 10technicians managers directors supervisors senior
executives
This report is a collaboration between Siemens and the Ponemon Institute. 
It focuses on cyber risk in OT environments at electric utilities with gas, 
solar, wind assets and water utilities, throughout North America, Europe, 
Middle East, the Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. The research was 
conducted to gain a clearer picture of utilities’ existing capabilities, levels 
of perparedness, vulnerabilities, and strategic understanding of their OT 
cyber risk.
utility professionals responded to a series of questions related to cyberse-
curity, providing self-assessments on key areas of their company’s 
technical and corporate readiness to address the increasing threat of cyber 
attacks. All respondents indicated their job involved securing or overseeing 
cyber risks in the OT environemtn. They described their roles as:In total
1,726Veribus dolorpro | Rubrik, Artikel
 10technicians managers directors supervisors senior
executives
utility professionals responded to a series of questions related to cybersecurity, 
providing self-assessments on key areas of their company’s technical and corporate 
readiness to address the increasing threat of cyber attacks. All respondents indicated 
their job involved securing or overseeing cyber risks in the OT environment. They 
described their roles as :
32
Assessing Operational Readiness Of The Global Utilities SectorPublished by and copyright © 2020
Updated; April 2021
Siemens Energy Inc.
Gas and Power
15375 Memorial Drive
Houston, TX 77079
United States
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.