ASSESSING THE
CYBER READINESS
of the Middle East’s Oil and Gas Sector
2 3
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorForeword           06 – 07
Executive summary          08 – 09
Introduction          10 – 13
OT cyber risk today          14 – 21
Readiness to address the OT cyber challenge      22 – 27
Solutions to the OT cyber challenge       28 – 33
Conclusion           34 – 35
Methodology          36 – 37Contents
An emerging trend of cyber attacks is 
designed to disrupt physical devices or 
processes used in operations.

4 5
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorThe Ponemon Institute conducts independent research on privacy, data
protection and information security policy. Our goal is to enable organizations in
both the private and public sectors to have a clearer understanding of the trends
in practices, perceptions and potential threats that will affect the collection,
management and safeguarding of personal and confidential information about
individuals and organizations. Ponemon Institute research informs organizations
on how to improve upon their data protection initiatives and enhance their brand
and reputation as a trusted enterprise.
In addition to our research, Ponemon Institute provides strategic consulting to
private and public sector organizations interested in establishing or enhancing
their privacy, data protection, and security practices. To ensure that their goals
are achieved, organizations engage us to assess their practices and conduct
workshops and training programs.
Ponemon Institute is the parent organization of the Responsible Information
Management (RIM) Council. The RIM Council draws its name from the practice
of Responsible Information Management, an ethics-based framework and longterm
strategy for managing personal and sensitive employee, customer and
business information.Given the probability of a cyber breach is nearly 100 percent, the question for
executives and security professionals becomes not whether to act, but how?
Holistic cyber security emphasizes not only the need to prevent an attack but
also the game plan for how to respond.
At Siemens Energy, we take our customers on a cyber security journey that brings
maturity to their industrial enterprise. This means starting with a risk-based
strategy that deals in fundamentals, transforms an organization’s response to the
environment, and most importantly, builds their capacity to monitor and respond
to threats. These threats range from connected assets in the field to control
centers that run critical infrastructure, to the enterprise networks that make up
the new energy value chain.
This agility is essential to dealing effectively with the growing cyber threat.
The organizations that move proactively to build their capability to detect
vulnerabilities, and respond to attacks, will be best positioned to meet the
challenges and opportunities of a digital economy. For Siemens Energy, a secure
industrial world is an essential component of our vision for an energy industry
that leverages digitalization and intelligent infrastructure.
In the past decade, Siemens Energy has invested over $10 billion to make digitaliza-
tion a core part of our own business transformation. Now we are making our industri-
al cyber capability and its complementary external offerings available to our
customers.Ponemon Institute Siemens Energy Industrial Cyber
6 7
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorUntil recently, most cyber attacks have targeted the Information Technology (IT) 
environments, comprised of PCs, work stations, and mobile devices. As the process 
of digitalization has accelerated, so too has the convergence of IT and operational 
technology (OT) connectivity. This provides a wide range of benefits that enable 
organizations to optimize processes, capture cost savings and turn data into value. 
At the same time, connectivity has also created a larger cyber “attack surface” that is 
harder than ever to secure.
Attackers have identified this convergence of IT and OT as a key opportunity to 
penetrate an organization. As a result, an emerging trend of cyber attacks is designed 
to disrupt physical devices or processes used in operations.
The disruption of critical infrastructure in industries can have catastrophic security, 
economic and environmental implications. In the Middle East, we have recently 
seen the Triton malware targeting industrial control systems in the energy sector by 
exploiting a previously unknown zero-day vulnerability. This OT-specific malware was 
designed to impact safety control systems, and underscores the potential OT cyber 
risk to health, safety and the environment.
These trends - accelerating digitalization, the convergence of IT and OT, more 
frequent, sophisticated cyber attacks, and an energy sector in the crosshairs – led 
Siemens Energy, in conjunction with the Ponemon Institute, to delve more deeply 
into the cyber readiness of the oil and gas industry in the Middle East. The impact of 
these cyber intrusions against OT assets in the Middle East, especially in the oil and 
gasForeword
Leo Simonovich
VP and Global Head
Industrial Cyber, Siemens EnergyGianluigi Di Giovanni,
Chief Executive Officer,
Power Generation Services, Middle East 
and North Africa, Siemens Energy
 sector, especially in the oil and gas sector, the target of 50 percent of all cyber attacks 
in the region, is more significant than in other parts of the world: greater frequency 
relative to return on investment (ROW), more expensive relative to ROW and with 
greater downtime.
To their credit, organizations in the region have been early enthusiasts for digitaliza-
tion, ahead of many others in the world in recognizing the unprecedented business 
value. They have also recognized the greater cyber risk associated with greater con-
nectivity. Oil and gas companies in the region are beginning to invest in protecting 
their assets from cyber intrusions, while lagging behind in terms of awareness and 
the rate of deploying technology that can protect their operating environment. In the 
government sphere, regulations intended to address the OT cyber threat are being 
rolled out, though, admittedly, these are mostly at an early stage.
Throughout this report, we seek to shed light on the state of cyber readiness of oil 
and gas companies in the region and hope you will find the insights drawn from this 
report illuminating.

8 9
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorThis report is the result of the second collaboration between Siemens Energy 
and the Ponemon Institute. It consists of a survey of 176 individuals in the 
Middle East responsible for securing or overseeing cyber risk.
Among the findings from these respondents in the Middle East and discussed in this 
report:
The process of digitalization is creating benefits for oil and gas companies (e.g., 
greater efficiencies, operational insights) but also generating significantly increased 
cyber risks, according to 62 percent of respondents.Executive Summary
The objective of this research presented here is to gain insight into how the oil and 
gas industry in the Middle East region understands the OT cyber risk it is facing, and 
how ready it is to meet this challenge.
10 11
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorSiemens Energy and the Ponemon Institute are pleased 
to present the results of ‘Assessing the Cyber Readiness 
of the Middle East’s Oil and Gas Sector’ report. This sur -
vey provides a first-of-its-kind assessment of the readi-
ness of Middle East oil and gas companies to deal with 
the emerging cyber threat to Operational Technology 
(OT).
The OT cyber risk is particularly acute in the Middle 
East. Given the critical importance of oil and gas to the 
region’s economies, OT cyber security is an especially 
pressing topic. We have already seen sophisticated cy -
ber attacks targeting oil and gas organizations (Aramco 
in 2012) and OT specifically (Triton in 2017). The finan-
cial impacts of these attacks in the Gulf last year were 
estimated to be more than USD$1 billion. In addition to 
these financial costs, OT cyber-attacks raise significant 
health, safety and environmental risks to the indus-
try. This potent combination of substantial costs and 
heightened risk will keep OT cyber security top of mind 
for Middle East oil and gas companies.
Introduction1
12 13
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorTo increase our understanding of the ot cyber landscape, this report focuses on:
OT cyber security presents unique challenges to oil and gas organizations that 
are different from traditional IT security concerns.
Cyber security challenges arise, in part, from the extended lifecycle of OT 
technologies.
Systems running older technologies are hard to patch due to their continual utiliza-
tion and integration into wider production chains. The unique features of OT under -
score the importance of purpose-built, multi-vendor solutions in
the operating environment.
The operating model of some oil and gas organizations in the region often serves to 
introduce additional OT cyber risk. We have seen joint ventures between national and 
international oil companies with an absence of clear ownership of OT cyber risk. This 
disconnect – between operations and OT cyber – can expose dangerous gaps in cyber 
asset management and detection, and severely hamper cyber teams attempting to 
secure the environment.
There is an absence of clear ownership 
of OT cyber risk in joint ventures.
14 15
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorOil and Gas OT environments face significant and mounting cyber security risk.
Sixty percent of respondents believe they face a greater risk in the OT than in the IT 
environment. Sixty-seven percent of respondents believe the risk level to industrial 
control systems over the past few years has substantially increased because of cyber 
threats.
These perceptions are, in fact, borne out in reality. A heightened risk environ-
ment is being driven by:The OT Cyber Risk Today

16 17
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector
Cyber breaches in the OT environment are 
widespread and regularly go undetected
These numbers, moreover, likely under-report the true figures: forty-six percent of 
cyber-attacks are believed by respondents to go undetected. This data underscores 
that the OT cyber risk is not just theoretical, and that companies across the region are 
already being impacted.
19
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector 18
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorThe process of digitalization is creating benefits for oil and gas companies (e.g. 
greater efficiencies, operational insights) but also generating significantly in-
creased cyber risk, according to 62 percent of respondents.
This survey highlights the close linkage between digitalization and cyber security for 
the oil and gas sector. In order for organizations to capture the full benefits of digitali-
zation, it is essential that they rigorously address the OT cyber risk.
The prevalence of insider threat risk shows that traditional strategies of “air-gapping” 
networks are not an adequate security measure.
This approach cannot, for example, prevent the introduction of compromised tran-
sient assets like USB sticks. Instead of attempting to air-gap networks that cannot ever 
be truly isolated, organizations can strengthen their cyber defences by looking to gain 
visibility into their entire operating environment. This asset transparency is especially 
critical with remote sites like offshore platforms and wellheads.Insider Threat Risk

21
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector 20
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector

22 23
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector
Readiness To Address 
The OT Cyber Challenge2
25
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector 24
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorOur study finds that oil and gas organizations in the Middle East recognize the grow -
ing OT cyber threat, as well as the imperative to strengthen their cyber readiness. In 
fact, Middle East organizations have already begun to take critical steps to improve 
their OT cyber security preparedness. Specifically, oil and gas companies in the Middle 
East have undertaken crucial steps such as:
Oil and gas organizations in the Middle East face a similar set of challenges in matur -
ing their OT security programs. First, companies often lack the internal expertise and 
trained personnel to build strong OT security programs. Second, many organizations 
do not have visibility into the assets in their operating environment, and cannotBest Practice In Cyber Security
Challenges To Cyber ReadinessIndustry Needs To Keep Up
Cyber Security Journey
protect what they have not identified. This lack of visibility is compounded by the 
reality of multi-vendor environments, full of legacy assets, that have often grown over 
time without a clear plan to secure them.
Despite awareness of rising OT cyber risk, budgets for OT cyber services and 
solutions have not kept up with the threat.
Oil and gas organizations in the Middle East are today dedicating only a third, on aver -
age, of their total cyber security budget to securing the OT environment. Given the 
risk shift we are witnessing in oil and gas – from the IT to the OT – this suggests that 
Middle East organizations are not aligning their cyber investments with where they 
are most vulnerable. This OT investment shortfall is all the more alarming as Middle 
Eastern oil and gas organizations reported smaller average total (IT + OT) cyber bud-
gets than their global peers.
Most organizations are only at the early stage of their OT cyber security journey.
Just under two-thirds of respondents considered their OT cyber security programs at 
an early or middle maturity, with nearly a quarter saying they had the lowest level of 
OT cyber security maturity. In these lower maturity organizations, we see recurring 
traits that undermine effective OT security:
27
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector 26
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorOil and gas companies often struggle 
to address the fundamentals of OT 
cyber security.Middle East governments recognize this challenge, and have clearly 
prioritized developing domestic high-tech expertise through such efforts 
as Saudi’s Vision 2030 plan.Completing Critical Tasks
Fewer respondents say their organizations have the ability to assess risks to determine 
resources necessary to address the risks or pinpoint sources of attacks and mobilize to re-
mediate the attack, according to 27 percent and 42 percent of respondents, respectively.
For example, only 27 percent of respondents expressed confidence in their ability to, 
first, assess cyber security risks, and second, allocate the resources necessary to address 
those risks. This limitation is exacerbated by a widespread shortage of OT cyber talent. 
In order to address this acute talent shortage, governments and the private sector have 
important roles to play in supporting capacity building.Support From Ot Cyber Experts
Companies need experts that understand both cyber security and industrial control 
systems, a combination that is hard to find. Fewer than half of respondents (43 per -
cent) thought they had the internal expertise necessary to manage cyber threats in 
the OT environment and, as a result, are increasingly seeking out external support. In 
particular, significant talent gaps exist for:

28 29
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector
Solutions To The Ot 
Cyber Challenge3
30 31
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorWhile our study indicates that oil and gas organizations in the Middle East 
increasingly recognize the OT cyber challenge, there are fewer signs that they are 
adopting the most effective measures to address OT risk. Many have not moved past 
approaches that no longer work in an era of digitalization. For example, too many 
organizations are still attempting to “air gap” their operating environment, rather than 
using smart, secure connectivity to gain transparency. Moving from the mentality of 
“dig a deeper moat” to continuous asset visibility and intelligence is a foundational 
step in building a robust OT security program. More broadly, we see six, key principles 
underlying the most effective OT cyber programs:Only 39 percent plan to ensure hardened endpoints in the next 12 months, and only 
20 percent will adopt analytics. The disconnect between establishing priorities and 
placing investments against those priorities highlights the importance for having a 
rigorous, long-term OT cyber security strategy.
Respondents recognize and call for solutions to address insider threat, aging control 
systems and secure connectivity.Solutions To Achieve Cyber 
Readiness
Many Companies Are Not Investing In 
The Most Effective Ot Cyber Tools
Most Effective Security Technologies
32 33
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorThe Importance Of Security Analytics
The survey data shows the importance of addressing the fundamentals (e.g., 
hardening endpoints), as well as leveraging advanced technologies (e.g., analytics) 
to secure the OT environment. Oil and gas companies can also build on security 
analytics data to safeguard and optimize operational processes. By combining 
data from the network, controls and asset layer, organizations are enabled to reap 
important benefits around, for example, process safety in refining.
Organizations need to develop integrated OT cyber strategies that are adopted 
across the organization.
As shown in this research, organizational challenges create difficulty in strengthening 
OT security. Only 9 percent percent of respondents say there is full alignment 
between OT and IT with respect to cyber security. Though employee training and 
awareness is critical to developing a robust internal cyber culture, sixty-five percent of 
respondents say their organizations do not have initiatives in place that would build 
such a “cyber-safety” culture.
The majority of respondents believe security analytics technology is essential or very 
important.

34 35
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorOur study reveals that oil and gas companies in the 
Middle East are aware of the growing OT cyber risk 
they face. They also increasingly recognize the actions 
they must take to strengthen their defences. They are 
investing more resources to develop the capabilities 
required, including qualified staff, to close this OT cyber 
readiness gap. These signs of leadership are welcome.
Taking the next step in this OT cyber security journey 
will require a more holistic strategy. Organizations that 
adopt both a risk-based and compliance-based approach 
to their OT security programs will be those who close the 
cyber readiness gap soonest. Those who show leadership 
in this challenge will look to leverage security analytics 
backed by deep domain expertise. Mature OT cyber 
programs will prioritize continuous visibility into their 
assets and vulnerabilities, so that they can intelligently, 
effectively prioritize. By ensuring asset transparency and 
rapid detection, organizations can best manage OT cyber 
risk and unlock the broader benefits of digitalization in 
the oil and gas industry.
Conclusion
36 37
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas Sector Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorRespondents worked across 
upstream, mid-stream and 
downstream oil and gas operations.
Methodology4

38
Assessing Cyber Readiness Of The Middle East’s Oil & Gas SectorCopyright of Siemens Energy Middle East
Masdar City
+971 2 616 5100
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.