Press release  
Restricted  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Orlando , May 11, 2021  
Siemens Energy Collaborates with 
ServiceNow to Enable Precision Defense 
Against Cyber Threats Targeting the Energy 
Industry  
• Siemens Energy’s monitoring and detection industrial IOT security platform and ServiceNow’s 
cross -enterprise digital workflows can help energy companies mitigate cyberattacks at machine -
speed  
• Collaboration creates bridge between cybersecurity experts analy zing anomalies and malicious 
behavior and plant operators capable of acting on credible threat intelligence across industrial 
operating environments  
• Combined software solution to help secure the energy transition to enable industry -wide 
adoption of digital , distributed and low -emissions technologies  
 
Siemens Energy today announced a collaboration with ServiceNow to create a unified software 
service offering enabling energy companies to monitor, detect and respond to cyber threats 
targeting digitally connect ed critical infrastructure.  
 
The new solution brings together Siemens Energy’s artificial intelligence (AI) -based software from 
its Managed Detection and Response (MDR), powered by Eos.iiTM, service to provide visibility and 
context across industrial oper ating environments with ServiceNow ’s Operational Technology 
Management (OT Management)  systems to connect cyber threats and digital workflows that allow 
analysts to quickly assess, prioritize and act against events in the field. The unified software solution 
creates a detection engine and workflows that streamline operations for cybersecurity analysts to 
monitor anomalous or malicious behavior in Security Operations Centers (SOC), and energy plant 
operators to act on credible threat intelligence at machine speed.   
 
“Most energy companies struggle with the complex technological and economic challenges 
involved in monitoring, detecting and preventing cyberattacks on critical infrastructure. Our MDR, 
powered by Eos.ii, solution, is the first AI -based platform built to p rovide visibility and context across 
the energy industry’s digital operating environment in time to stop attacks,” said Leo Simonovich, 
head of Industrial Cybersecurity at Siemens Energy. “Leveraging Eos.ii’s monitoring and detection 
software with ServiceN ow’s digital workflows will help turn cyber threat intelligence into action so 
plant operators can respond to incidents with precision defense at machine speed.”  Press release  

Press release  
Restricted  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
 
"The ability to quickly turn data into action is critical to being able to proactively, reac tively and 
remotely mitigate cyberattacks targeting critical infrastructure. Yet, this is one of the biggest 
challenges for industrial innovation,” said Marshall Tyler , vice president  of Industr y Solutions at 
ServiceNow. “Siemens Energy is a leader in this space and together we are arming the energy 
industry with the insights and workflows they need to deliver critical services and protect their 
customers and stakeholders."  
 
While the energy transition has introduced new levels of cyber risk — exposing flaws in existing 
vulnerability management and security response strategies — most companies continue to invest in 
business models and technologies that rely on the seamless integration of physical and digital 
assets.  
 
Leveraging Siemens Energy’s Eos.ii so ftware, energy companies can turn cyber threat intelligence 
targeting operational technology (OT) and information technology (IT) networks — connected to 
physical energy assets — into an actionable response through the ServiceNow OT Management 
product. Thi s enables plant operators to act with Precision Defense, a response method to deploy 
appropriate, targeted and proportionate measures to correct and recover from cyber incidents. 
Responding to cyber threats with Precision Defense allows energy plant operat ors to improve 
efficiency and reduce operating costs while responding to incidents with little to no downtime for 
critical systems.  
 
Siemens Energy’s MDR system provides a unified picture of anomalous behavior for defenders with 
actionable insights to stop  attacks. The service goes beyond conventional monitoring by achieving a 
deeper understanding of how digital systems relate to the real world. With its unified OT and IT data 
stream, MDR’s Eos.ii technology platform uses AI and digital twin technology to c ompare billions of 
real-time data points against a correctly functioning asset. This provides context for Siemens 
Energy’s analysts to determine not only which events are abnormal, but which are consequential. 
The technical achievement of unified data stre ams and machine learning make an unprecedented 
platform for targeted, in -depth analysis.  
 
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Stacia Licona  
Phone:  +1 281 -721-3402  
E-mail:  stacia.licona@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is available at 
www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twi tter.com/siemens_energy  
 
Press release  
Restricted  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmissi on to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been d ecarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Sieme ns Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion in fiscal 
year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 