What does it take to run a successful AM Business?1
What does  
it take to run  
a successful  
AM Business?
Roundtable and  
Survey Report
Additive manufacturing 
faces hurdles that need to 
be overcome to realise its 
potential, and while there 
are dozens of conferences 
that focus on technical 
elements, very few - if any 
- conversations focus on 
the business, economic, 
and cultural considerations 
required to unleash the full 
potential of AM.
Convened by Siemens 
Energy in collaboration 
with IQPC, organisers of the 
Additive Manufacturing 
for Aerospace & Space 
conference, this discussion 
and subsequent survey of 
senior executives drawn from 
across the AM ecosystem 
focused on issues beyond 
the technical.
What does it take to run a successful AM Business?2
I have had the opportunity to participate in various conferences and panel 
discussions over the years to share my views on how the industry at large 
can accelerate the adoption of additive manufacturing towards a trusted and 
fully industrialized process.  Technology development typically dominates 
these discussions, especially with the rapid technical advancements in machine, 
materials and software that we have witnessed over the last decade. 
We have adopted the tag line of “Together we lead the Additive Manufacturing 
Revolution” in our Siemens Energy AM family, and like the rest of the AM industry 
a major focus has been technology development. However, while the maturation 
of technology is fundamental in the journey towards industrial level adoption of 
AM, I believe we must also consciously address the lesser mentioned soft factors 
like organization culture if we truly want to lead this revolution.
I have previously presented this model, which attempts to capture this holistic 
approach that I believe is needed to effectively implement AM at an enterprise 
level.  At Siemens Energy we have elected to set up AM as a standalone venture 
with end-to-end accountability for both the hard and soft factors that influence 
our ability to effect sustainable adoption of AM.  This discussion was born out 
of the belief that across the entire AM eco-system, all businesses share this 
same challenge of how to balance the hard and soft factors that determine the 
holistic success of an AM implementation strategy.  If we have a shared goal to 
accelerate the adoption of AM across industries, then it is equally important to 
collaborate and share best practices on how we run our businesses as much as 
the technology that supports this.Foreword by  
Markus Seibold,  
Vice President, Additive 
Manufacturing, 
Siemens Energy
Soft FactsCulture
Business 
ModelsTechnology
Qualification 
& CertificationHard FactsInternal Focus
External Focus

What does it take to run a successful AM Business?3
To kick-start the discussion, we hosted a Roundtable and 
the invited participants represented a cross-section of the 
AM industry ecosystem; Printer OEMs, users, service and 
software providers and included metal, polymer and hybrid 
industry leaders.
Under discussion were three key questions:
1.  How can the economic considerations of running 
an AM business be balanced, and what challenges 
have been experienced in its adoption? 
2.  What are the main operational constraints that 
have had to be overcome and what challenges still 
remain?
3. How significant is the role of organisational culture?
The discussion was driven not only by the perspective of big 
OEMs, but also by software and the digitalisation needed for 
mass adoption. It covered a range of critical areas that both 
industry and users need to be aware of, matters that also 
required further exploration. 
Following the discussion, a survey was sent out to the wider 
Additive Manufacturing community in order to ascertain 
whether their individual objectives bore any resemblance 
to one another; in addition, it also examined whether 
the difficulties and ‘pain points’ of the various AM users 
were comparable. The chart opposite is a summary of the 
comments captured in the survey about the key challenges 
that the participants see to the wide scale adoption of AM, 
and how these challenges relate to the model that Markus 
presents above.  This write-up aims to capture some of the 
key takeaway points and contribute to the debate.The survey participants were asked to provide their thoughts on what 
solutions there might be to existing challenges and what steps can 
best be taken to enable AM’s wider adoption.
Technology
• Update experts and designers
•  Bridge the gap between 
academia and industry
•  Allow the end user to evaluate 
performance themselves
•  Demonstrate and showcase 
AM advantages
•  Develop national 
collaborationsCulture
•  Convincing contacts of the 
benefits of AM
•  Sharing knowledge, and 
supporting SME’s in adopting 
AM technologies
•  Improved inter-company 
coordination, with a focus on 
the customer
• Launch awareness programs
•  Convince engineers to adopt 
AM with re-engineering 
opportunities
Qualification
•  Impliment AM in low/medium-
risk applications
•  Establish world-class 
standardization
•  Discover necessities of part 
consistency
•  Develop qualified processes 
and systems for industrial 
sectorsBusiness models
•  Being aware of competitors’ 
movements and actions
•  Strategic planning with 
partners
•  Start simple before branching 
out
•  Focus and concentrate on 
what the company already doesModerated by: Discussion members:
Challenge solutions and 
future steps to be taken 
across the AM ecosystemMadeline Salazar
Manager, Additive & Digital 
Manufacturing
Northrop GrummanIvan Madera
Chief Executive Officer
Morf3DMarkus Seibold 
Vice President, Additive 
Manufacturing
Siemens EnergyBrad Keselowski
Owner and Founder,
Keselowski Advanced 
Manufacturing
Marie Langer
Chief Executive Officer
EOSDr. Melissa Orme
Vice President, Additive 
Manufacturing
Boeing
Bill Cronin
Chief Revenue Officer
XometryNeil Mantle
Director Manufacturing
Rolls-Royce
Ben Ferrar
Vice President
Carpenter AdditiveVishal Singh
Chief Technology Officer
Link3DDr. Mohsen Seifi
Director of Global Additive Manufacturing Programs
ASTM International
What does it take to run a successful AM Business?4
Key Topic 1:
How can the community promote the wider 
use of Additive Manufacturing?  
What challenges have you experienced in 
its adoption, and how can those sceptical of 
the technology be convinced?  
How can the economic considerations of 
running an AM business be best balanced? 
The discussion began with 
reflections on a presentation 
delivered by Markus Seibold from 
Siemens Energy at the 2020 
Additive Manufacturing for Aerospace & 
Space conference on the importance of 
culture. The participants agreed on the 
need for this industry-wide collaborative 
discussion to identify areas for cooperation 
across the AM ecosystem. In order to drive 
the rapid adoption of AM technology - an 
industry acknowledged to be rapidly 
evolving - it makes sense to exchange best 
practices at the executive level.
Throughout the conversation, most of the 
participants referenced Markus’ model, 
with some talking about the technologists 
(left) and the bankers (right), and how to 
bring these key stakeholders on the AM 
adoption journey.
While most of the conversation was 
firmly fixated on the right-hand side, a 
few opening remarks touched on the 
technology and the importance of using 
data to mitigate risk and evangelizing 
about the technology to key stakeholders 
but using hard data to do this. The 
potential of AM technology to create truly 
differentiating products with improved 
performance rather than simply to replace or optimise conventionally 
manufactured parts was seen as important 
in demonstrating the strategic nature of 
the technology, the viability of the business 
model, and bring executive support.
“We think it’s important to present a 
wide range of capabilities and provide 
data and information that will lead 
people to make the right choices  
leading to better results. There’s a great 
opportunity to be very innovative from a 
business model standpoint”
It was also noted that the model can be 
interpreted in other ways; one participant 
mentioned that in their own case, success 
was a result of securing the support 
of their banker. This endorsement 
was seemingly earned by the banker 
in question recognising how Additive 
Manufacturing could assist in their own 
operations. This idea was later connected 
to the importance of raising awareness of 
the capabilities of AM. 
“It’s on us all to focus on the educational 
aspect and relate that back to the 
challenges we face”
Management challenges associated 
with technology and maturing markets 
were identified, such as the positions of younger people within a company 
who truly understand the technology 
compared to some of the more senior 
decision-makers who remain more 
unfamiliar with AM and the opportunities 
it offers.
“When you come into a new technology, 
there’s a lot to overcome. The key issue 
is that the performance of the parts we 
create is stable, reliable, and repeatable. 
It’s how we can prove that – we’re not 
going to have the trust or confidence 
without it. ”
Elon Musk’s advice to business founders 
of “Have a High Pain Threshold” was 
quoted. In order for AM to mature to 
deliver its full promise, it will require 
intentionality, commitment and 
endurance. One of the key points was 
that stakeholders often do not have 
the necessary ‘pain tolerance’ for this 
new technology, and that expectations 
should be carefully managed – indeed, 
in the accompanying survey, ‘economic 
constraints’ was the majority (37.50%) 
answer to the question “What would you 
consider to be the biggest constraint in 
your business today towards the goal of 
accelerated AM adoption?” .
What does it take to run a successful AM Business?5
Key Topic 1 continued
Its hardly a surprise to see that the 
results from the survey show that the 
economic and technological concerns 
are still the most prevalent barrier to the 
wider adoption of AM. More interestingly 
though, it is also the case that operational 
and cultural constraints are coming 
more to the foreground as soft factor 
considerations – and both people and 
businesses are beginning to recognise the 
need to address these also.
 It was stated that there will be a lot 
of ‘pain’ that needs to be endured to 
succeed, which later led to the question 
of how this pain can be reduced to 
allow more companies to succeed. A 
concerning issue was raised in that 
much of AM’s current levels of success 
and failure is being dictated by the pain 
thresholds of stakeholders.
“We have also experienced that Additive 
needs to be a strategic choice by the 
company. It needs to be an incorporated 
business strategy”
Additive also needs to be a strategic 
choice by companies who can see the 
effect on their business model and 
can understand both how to use the 
technology and where it can make a 
meaningful difference. 
Indeed, in answering the question of 
where Additive Manufacturing positions 
in their own business today, 42.86% of 
respondents to the distributed survey 
considered it to be a strategic technology 
rather than a wing of R&D or Product 
Development. In addition, companies that 
have a better track record at digitalisation 
have been found to be better at the 
adoption of AM; this points to the fact that 
this all starts with a cultural shift. 
So while it was uplifting to see that 
viewing Additive Manufacturing as a 
“strategic technology” was the majority 
answer; there clearly remains a large 
gap to bridge with over 50% still not 
seeing AM as strategic. If we believe that 
successful adoption requires AM to be a 
business level strategy then far more work 
still needs to be done to convince our 
organisations of this.Smaller companies in the AM ecosystem 
have managed to keep up with digital 
transformation in an agile way that has 
helped both their reporting and their 
ability to compete. An environment of 
small teams and continually evolving 
practices leads to a dynamic atmosphere 
seen as an important non-financial 
benefit for attracting top talent. 
It was agreed that the culture of some of 
these companies – moving from startups 
to larger businesses, or publicly limited 
companies – will change. Risk levels will 
adjust, and in some cases become more corporate and risk averse. In order to 
enact this change, it was suggested that 
trade studies become a widely adopted 
practice; these trade studies would 
provide data, and through gathering data 
a culture can grow. This was connected 
to an idea raised later in the discussion 
regarding AM’s comparatively recent 
appearance as a viable option: unlike 
other methods, it simply does not have 
decades of data behind it that can show 
its effectiveness.  This again, highlights 
the need for standards and industry 
consortium where all companies can 
benefit from non-competitive date.
Biggest business contraints  
to AM adoption
How do you see AM positioned in 
your business today?40%
Economic
Strategic 
Technology/Business
Product 
Development 
Enabler
OtherStandard 
Manufacturing 
TechnologyResearch & 
DevelopmentOperational Cultural Technological30%
10%20%
0%
0% 20% 10% 30% 40% 50%

What does it take to run a successful AM Business?6
Key Topic 1 continued
In responding to the question ‘How would 
you best characterize the focus of the 
AM growth mindset in your business?’ , it 
was encouraging to see that the majority 
of respondents believe that the growth 
of the industry is based on some level 
of industry collaboration. The change 
from inward focused growth through 
protectionism towards industry growth 
through collaboration is hopefully the 
start of a significant change in the culture 
of the ecosystem. 
In the current era of consolidations, 
mergers and acquisitions, and IPOs, the 
cultural dynamics that are required within 
an AM organization need to be protected. 
Merging an AM team into an established 
manufacturing business may lead to a risk 
averse approach to the new technology 
which lacks the track record that risk-
averse engineers are used to, coupled 
with the data they typically require. It was also mentioned that AM is at a 
point of development that it needs to 
continually push boundaries by failing 
and learning. Through agile failure 
the most can be learnt, and while 
consequences need to be mitigated, this 
process cannot take place within a risk 
averse environment. “What matters in failure is that we 
learn a lot and can then take things 
to the next level. This is all about the 
technology, and what gaps we have in 
further developing it, as well as how we 
ensure quality through qualification and 
certification”A balance
Internal focusExternal focus0% 20% 10% 30% 40% 50% 60%
How would you best characterize the 
focus of the AM growth mindset in 
your business?
What does it take to run a successful AM Business?7
Key Topic 2:
What are the main operational constraints 
within your own business, as well as those in 
your associated AM eco-system today that 
you have had to overcome?  What are the 
biggest operational challenges that you still 
face in your business/associated ecosystem 
that is preventing further accelerated 
adoption of AM, and what possible solutions 
are there?
Companies making use of 
Additive Manufacturing need 
to to master all aspects of 
the process from designing, 
cleaning and testing, through to 
assembly. It was highlighted that less than 
5% of the production time is spent in the 
3D printer itself. An AM part that might 
take just a few days to print may take 40 
days from start to finish to manufacture.
“The Additive Manufacturing ecosystem 
needs to function more like a software 
company, and act as the master for all 
information. From the business side, 
you have to show it economically makes 
sense as well as being qualitatively 
better. The business always needs to 
know that the part will be produced at 
better quality for a reduced cost, and 
that the end product is superior. ”
Furthermore, the customer needs to 
understand the need of their parts. Any 
misunderstanding or miscalculation by 
the customer can lead to the part failing, 
and it is always the AM process that is 
subsequently blamed. Sometimes a 
customer may under-spec, which leads 
to failure, or sometimes over-spec, which 
can undermine the business case. It is increasingly important to have a well-
educated client base in order to preserve 
the trust in the technology; when parts 
break, confidence is lost.
The survey asked ‘How do you solve 
operational constraints in your business 
today?’ , and only 20% of respondants 
believe that the answers lie within. 
This seems to reinforce the need to 
look beyond the boundaries of our 
own business to address our current 
constraints. Collaboration and increased 
digitisaiton is going to be key to progress, 
especially as individual firms are not able 
to master everything on their own.The AM Ecosystem needs to function 
more like a software company than a 
manufacturing company. Lower costs can 
be achieved through digital technologies, 
cloud computing and the right adoption 
and use of software, which still results in 
the delivery of higher quality parts.
“Proper digital workflow is a critical 
barrier to widespread AM adoption...but 
regarding culture, AM culture requires 
collaboration at every level. In order for 
AM to mature to deliver its full promise it 
will require intentionality, commitment, 
and endurance”
0%30%
10%40%
20%50%
Internal 
SolutionsCollaboration 
with PartnersDevelop 
Internal TalentAutomation 
and DigestionOtherHow do you solve operational 
constraints in your business today?
What does it take to run a successful AM Business?8
Key Topic 2 continued
Automation, too, is seen as being key in 
driving down costs, after which it will be 
more realistic to persuade any business-
oriented sceptics that AM can make 
products that are qualitatively better 
and economically viable. An important 
element of this is recognising how much 
of the process can be fully automated. 
However, change management is neither 
simple nor easy, since those on the 
factory floor or working with bankers 
will have to have all of their processes 
changed; due to the fact that they have 
become very accustomed to their current 
operations, enacting change is difficult. 
Answers to the question of ‘How 
committed is your business to 
overcoming the challenges necessary to 
reach and push beyond the economic 
tipping point for successful AM adoption?’ 
showed that most companies are making 
strides towards incorporating AM on 
a wide scale in spite of the identified 
economic constraints. However, there 
are clearly some respondents that 
feel their companies may not have 
the aforementioned “pain tolerance” 
of their peers, resulting in less overall 
commitment.Proper digital workflow is also considered 
to be a critical barrier to adoption, 
especially in the automotive industry 
where the fewer ‘hands on parts’ , the 
better. Software is seen as being key 
to this, along with greater levels of 
automation.
“I can only go so far by myself, but with 
some of the partnerships we have, we’re 
able to integrate across various work 
streams on the value chain to deliver an 
integrated solution”One of the greatest identified challenges 
was the fact that some AM producers 
are obligated to be the master of every 
technology and every process; they must 
understand AM technology from the 
perspectives of the entire value chain, 
in terms of what does and does not 
work. They are required to inspect the 
technology and ensure that they have 
satisfied the demands of the customer. 
In effect they must act as a software 
engineer, a metallurgist, a post process 
specialist, etc. We are there
Medium
LowHigh0% 20% 10% 30% 40% 50%
How committed is your business to 
overcoming the challenges necessary 
to reach and push beyond the 
economic tipping point for successful 
AM adoption?
What does it take to run a successful AM Business?9
Key Topic 3:
How significant is the role of your own 
organisational culture (organisation, 
people, processes etc.) and the associated 
ecosystem culture (collaboration, technology 
sharing, connectivity) in how you run your 
business today?
Confidence and trust are both 
extremely important, and 
with trust comes simplicity. 
The panel stated that they 
mostly knew far more about additive 
manufactured parts than about cast 
parts, but subtractive manufacturing is 
aware of its boundaries and limits; AM, 
meanwhile, is comparatively new. 
Although external trust levels and outside 
confidence in Additive Manufacturing 
were identified as remaining challenges, 
in answering the survey question of ‘What 
is the level of trust and confidence that 
AM holds internally in your business 
today?’ , the respondents indicated that at 
least within their own organisations, AM 
is largely viewed positively. However, the 
eventual benchmark for AM’s success 
must be similar to those of machining 
and casting, with their high levels of 
industry trust. It will likely be the soft 
factors that ultimately help AM establish 
itself as a comparable solution with more 
conventional manufacturing methods. Standardisatoin will also greatly help AM 
learn its own boundaries, and through the 
use of parts adhering to standard comes 
trust in the technology, which then opens 
up more complex applications. In other 
words, standardisation plays a significant 
role in establishing trust, which in turn will 
lead to wider adoption.“It boils down to two things: confidence 
and trust. Confidence in being able to 
understand that you’re going to do what 
you said you were going to do, and trust 
in that you understand what you’ve got 
to do to make it effectively. That trust 
then expands onto your customers and 
your regulators. ”■ High
■ Medium
■ Low
61.9%26.2%11.9%What is the level of trust and 
confidence that AM holds internally 
in your business today?
What does it take to run a successful AM Business?10
Question 3 continued
In order to gain new customers essential 
for long-term success, large costs need to 
be sustained to establish a track record. 
This type of financial decision cannot 
be made by a spreadsheet - it can only 
be made by people who can look at an 
individual case and decide if it is worth 
building a new business relationship, and 
worth investing money in a relationship 
that they believe will become profitable 
over time. Enabling this type of decision 
making is why culture is key.
Given the initial hype around AM, there is 
also a need for expectation management 
of the applications that AM will be put to. 
Companies with experience of integrating 
new manufacturing techniques, such as 
those who adopted carbon fibre in its own 
early days, are familiar with the 10-year 
induction that this can take, but others 
will need guidance. Again, for such a 
significant investment that comes with 
a long journey of adoption, support from 
the company and recognizing AM as a 
strategic initiative is important. 
“We’ve created teams of people that 
have the ability to continually evolve. We 
have to let them infect the rest of the 
organisation and show the value of AM 
to the broader team, our bankers, and 
other stakeholders to increase their pain 
threshold”
A recurring theme throughout the 
discussion was the need to raise awareness of AM and its benefits – 
including some benefits that are not 
directly financial in nature. Showing 
successes with Additive Manufacturing 
and then encouraging its adoption 
in other sectors of an organisation is 
a demonstrably effective method of 
spreading AM use. 
Emphasizing the importance of 
collaboration and cooperation in the 
Additive Manufacturing ecosystem was 
the majority answer to the question 
‘What best describes your industry 
partnerships?’ .  This seems to indicate 
that there is a move towards an ecosystem culture based on two-way 
value-added collaborations.
Raising awareness would also lead 
to countering any misinformation or 
inaccurate preconceptions that might 
be encountered. For instance, one 
participant related how they had heard 
the expectation that 33% of an aircraft 
can and will be constructed via AM parts. 
Managing expectations and embarking 
on educational efforts over AM’s real 
possibilities will also have an impact on its 
broader adoption, as well as further build 
trust and confidence in its application.
■ Collaborative
■  Customer/Supplier
■  Tech Partnership
■  IP Exchange
 53.6%
26.8%17.9%1.8%What best describes your industry 
partnerships?
What does it take to run a successful AM Business?11
Summary
The discussion identified the fact 
that AM is still a tough business 
to succeed in and there are 
challenges that clearly remain 
before Additive Manufacturing is adopted 
on a broader scale. Businesses will need 
a high pain threshold to work through 
some of these remaining hurdles, but the 
conversation was fruitful in that a number 
of ways forward were identified. 
Of these, collaboration was identified as a 
key component needed to make further 
progress, which further suggests the 
need for a consortium. The discussion 
agreed that it will be necessary for the AM 
community to work together collectively 
at all levels of the value chain and every 
part of the ecosystem, pooling skillsets 
and resources, in order to achieve the best 
possible outcomes – it was identified that 
companies themselves cannot function at 
their most effective when they are operating 
alone.   Importantly the ecosystem collaboration needs to increasingly function 
in the digital manner to fully realise Additive 
Manufacturing’s potential as a lean and 
cost-effective solution.
This does not just refer to collaborating on 
a production level, but also in cooperating 
to convince the “bankers” that Additive 
Manufacturing is a worthwhile investment 
due to the strategic value to the business as 
opposed to just another technology stream. 
Building trust in Additive Manufacturing 
was also shown to be important, a 
viewpoint which was supported by the 
prior experiences of a number of panellists. 
However, trust in the technology is 
inherently linked to AM’s ability to mitigate 
perceived risks in its use. One proposed 
way of doing this is standardisation, which 
is starting to be introduced in Additive 
Manufacturing. 
With both risk mitigation and trust 
building in mind, the discussion also highlighted the need to raise 
further awareness of AM. Given AM’s 
comparatively new nature, reports of 
both misinformation regarding the risks 
of using it and overestimations of its 
capabilities emerged during the panel. 
Exactly what AM is capable of – and 
what it is not best suited for – and what 
can realistically be done with it, as well 
as managing expectations, will all be of 
the utmost importance in ensuring the 
technology’s broader adoption. 
The technology development in the 
industry will remain critical to building 
the trust in AM, but the discussion has 
identified a number of softer factors 
based in our culture, our collaboration 
models, our organisation designs etc that 
clearly will play an increasingly important 
role in convincing the wider community 
of the sustainability of AM beyond what is 
technically achievable.
Podcast
What does it take to run a 
successful AM Business?
COMING SOON
Europe’s Premier Additive 
Manufacturing for Aerospace and 
Space Conference will return to 
Hamburg in 2022, 22-24 FebruaryAdditive Manufacturing
for Aerospace & Space
We look forward to welcoming  
you back to our in person event