unrestricted © Siemens Energy 2021 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Use Case:
Dual -Wall Combustion Transition
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
Conventional -to-AM Design Evolution
Conventional Transition AM Transition
IN625 LPBF Transition
Current Testing Opportunity Enables Rapid / Low -Risk Evaluation of Lattice Performance & Integrity
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
AM Transition Design Features
•Convergent modeling utilized to 
modify legacy neutral CAD files
•Convergent lattice body 
generated and parametrically 
driven from shell
1)Self-supporting coolant inlets
2)Printed “cutout” allows for larger 
dual-wall footprint without ID 
baffle modification
3)Lattice accommodates thermal 
fight of structure, while enhancing 
heat transfer from the hot surface
4)Self-supporting coolant outlet
5)Effusion cooling eliminated.
1234
5
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
AM Transition Design Features
Single -Printed Body Solid Shell BCC Lattice Structure = +
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
Lattice Design & Selection
•Goal of this transition is to:
•Gain real operating hours on 3D 
printed lattice to gain understanding 
of its damage tolerance
•Explore dual -wall transition design to 
reduce effusion cooling (NOx 
benefit)
•Explore heat rejection capability of 
lattice structure
•Lattice must be optimized for:
→Heat rejection
→Mechanical integrityHot GasCoolant Inlet
Coolant Outlet
Lattice operates in 
compression and 
alleviates thermal -fight of 
dual wallsThinner shell wall eliminates effusion 
cooling.
Heat transfer augmented by lattice 
conduction -convection with coolant.
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
Lattice Cell Sizing: Flow Driven
•BCC lattice cell selected (internally 
available mechanical test data)
•Simplified CFD Analysis of a periodic 
sheet of lattice.
•Parametric design of experiments run to 
understand geometry effect on pressure 
drop and heat transfer.
Heat Transfer CoefficientVideo
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
CFD Design of Experiments
Cell Height = 3.4mm to 6.5mm Ø_Truss = 0.5mm to 1.5mm
Inlet Velocity = range
Sink (exit) Pressure = range
6.5mm Edge Length, 1.5mm Truss Diameter Down -Selected for Design
Competing goals (minimal pressure drop, maximum heat rejection)
Optimal Balance Achieved utilizing Design Space Exploration
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
Material Testing & Modeling of BCC Lattice
Homogenization allows efficient computation of deformation behavior of lattice.
Orthotropic Homogenized Finite Element 
Material Model
Explicit Lattice Geometry + 
Bulk MaterialNumerically Homogenized (Metal + Air) Tuned with Lab TestingApplied to solid finite elements 
of lattice region
σ,ε
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
Material Testing & Modeling of BCC Lattice
Lab Test Tunes Material Model
Homogenized 
elastic properties 
accurate to testDebit must be 
applied to lattice 
plastic behavior
Lattice material debit due to inherent process limits (surface finish, contouring, etc.)

unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
Thermal -Structural Analysis Setup
•3D simulation
•Heat Transfer & Mechanical 
Loading
•Evaluated with and without lattice 
(shows benefit on mechanical 
integrity)
•Lattice treated as homogenized 
solid body.
•Constitutive model generated 
numerically and tuned via lab 
tests.
•Captures deformation / load 
transfer from shell
•Will not capture accurate 
lattice stress / life information 
(not yet of interest)
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
Thermal -Structural Analysis Results
(Equivalent stress normalized by largest nodal value)
WITHOUT LATTICE WITH LATTICE
Lattice redistributes thermal stress between shell walls, enabling design life to be met

unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
Thermal -Structural Analysis Results
(Equivalent stress normalized by largest nodal value)
WITHOUT LATTICE WITH LATTICE
Lattice redistributes thermal stress between shell walls, enabling design life to be met
Critical aft fillet has 0 fatigue life Critical aft fillet has infinite fatigue life(Lattice hidden)
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
LBPF Print Simulation Setup
Numerical orientation 
algorithms utilized in 
addition to manufacturing 
experience.
•Compares build time, 
distortion, and support 
qty.
•Useful as sanity check
•Can identify non -
obvious efficient 
orientations
Actual printing process simulated to check for build failures and part NCCs from distortion.
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
LBPF Print Simulation Results
[mm]
No distortion build failures detected.  Part released for print.Post-Cutoff Deformation Shown
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
Multiple Prints →Its Never Just “CTRL+P”
Build 
Trial #1
Build 
Trial #2
•Initial build failure due to lattice 
mechanical properties and interaction 
with shell. 
•Build simulation would not capture this 
(reality is still some trial & error)
•Parameter sets customized for IN625 
build for trial #2.
•Part successfully printed and post 
processed!
Multiple build trials often necessary to overcome inherent complexity of LBPF process.  
Feedback to process simulation critical to future reductions to trial necessity.
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08
Successful Dual -Wall Transition with Lattice!
Part currently on -site at combustion facility, in assembly, and will be tested in the next 2 months.
unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 2021 2021 -08 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Disclaimer
This document has been prepared in respect of Siemens Energy AG (together with its subsidiaries, 
“Siemens Energy ”), under which the majority of the energy business of Siemens Aktiengesellschaft 
(together with its subsidiaries, “ Siemens ”) will be bundled. It is intended to admit the shares in Siemens 
Energy to trading on the regulated market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. This document does not 
constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase or 
subscribe for, any shares or other securities of Siemens or Siemens Energy in any jurisdiction.
This document contains statements relating to the future business and financial performance and future 
events or developments involving Siemens and Siemens Energy that may constitute forward -looking 
statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “look forward to”, “anticipate”, 
“intend”, “plan”, “believe”, “seek”, “estimate”, “will”, “project” or words of similar meaning. Such statements 
are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions, of which many are beyond Siemens’ and 
Siemens Energy’s control. These are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of 
these risks or uncertainties materialize, should decisions, assessments or requirements of regulatory 
authorities deviate from our expectations, or should underlying expectations not occur or assumptions prove 
incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements of Siemens or Siemens Energy may (negatively or 
positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward -looking 
statement. Neither Siemens nor Siemens Energy intend, nor assume any obligation, to update or revise 
these forward -looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.The information and opinions contained in this document are provided as at the date of this presentation 
and are subject to change without notice. They do not purport to contain all information that may be required 
to evaluate Siemens or Siemens Energy and have not been verified independently. Historical financial or 
operative information contained in this document has been taken or derived from Siemens’ financial 
statements, accounting records or management reporting. The combined financial statements for Siemens 
Energy are currently being prepared. These may deviate substantially from the information included in this 
document. The information in this document is of a preliminary and abbreviated nature and may be subject 
to updating, revision and amendment, and such information may change materially. In addition, the 
historical financial and operative information included in this document does not necessarily fully reflect 
changes that will occur when Siemens Energy operates as a separate group of companies. Accordingly, 
such information is not necessarily indicative for the future consolidated results of operations, financial 
position or cash flows of the prospective Siemens Energy business on a stand -alone basis.
This document includes –in the applicable financial reporting framework not clearly defined –supplemental 
financial measures that are or may be alternative performance measures (non -GAAP -measures). These 
supplemental financial measures should not be viewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of 
Siemens’ or Siemens Energy’s net assets and financial positions or results of operations as presented in 
accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework in its consolidated financial statements and 
combined financial statements, respectively. Other companies that report or describe similarly titled 
alternative performance measures may calculate them differently. Due to rounding, numbers presented 
throughout this and other documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may 
not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
This document contains forecasts, statistics, data and other information relating to markets, market sizes, 
market shares, market positions and other industry data on Siemens’ or Siemens Energy’s business and 
markets (together the “ market data ”) provided by third party sources as interpreted by us. This market data 
is, in part, derived from published research and additional market studies prepared primarily as a research 
tool and reflects estimates of market conditions based on research methodologies including primary 
research, secondary sources and econometric modelling, which may not be representative.