Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Berlin , May 16, 2024  
No power nap for Denmark:                   
Siemens Energy wins major expansion 
agreement to future -proof  Denmark’s 
electricity grid   
• Agreement to deliver transformers and switchgears for high -voltage substations over the 
next eight years will greatly expand the electricity grid in Western Denmark . 
• Energinet takes role model approach in securing long -term manufacturing capacity as grid 
expansion accelerates . 
 
Today, Siemens Energy and Danish state -owned Energinet announce a EUR 1. 4 billion (DKK 10.5 
billion) framework agreement to renew Denmark’s energy infrastructure. To accelerate the green 
energy transition, Siemens Energy has been chosen by Energinet to deliver transformers and 
switchgears for high -voltage substations to expand the electricity grid in the country.  
 
The agreement focuses on the Western part of D enmark, where  approximately  50 new or reinforced 
150 kV high -voltage substations are planned to be built or expanded over the next 8 years. The first 
four years of the agreement is estimated to be worth up to EUR 800 million  (DKK 6 billion ) to 
accelerate the energy transition. The new substations will be automated and include state -of-the-art 
grid technologies from Siemens Energy.   
 
With Denmark aiming to reach a target of net zero emissions by 2045 through renewable energy, the 
race is on to decarbonize the Danish grid . By 2030, the country must quadruple its electricity 
generation from wind and solar power  as electricity consumption  is multiplied by the switch to 
electrical vehicles , heat pumps , and convert ing solar and wind power to hydrogen and green fuels 
for industries. These shifts require massive investment and expanding electricity grids t o ensure the 
future electrification of Danish society .  
 
Tim Holt, Member of the Executive Board for Siemens Energy, says, “There is no energy transition 
without transmission, and that can only happen with the availability of switchgears and transformers. 
Grid investments are accelerating dramatically in Europe and worldwide, and customers are 
competing for manufacturing slots. This agreement enables Siemens Energy to plan its capacities , 
which will benefit both Danish and European energy infrastructure. We are excited to be trusted to 
deliver on the grid acceleration in Denmark .”  
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
Henrik Riis, CEO of Energinet Electricity Transmission , says, “We need external suppliers to ensure 
rapid and significant expansion of the electricity transmission grid. The task is enormous. In the 
coming years, several high -voltage substations on the ‘high -ways’ of the Danish electricity grid are 
needed to secure th at renewable electricity can be connected to the grid and transported around the 
country. We are incredibly pleased that with Siemens Energy we get a long -term, strategic 
partnership, thus ensu ring that we can keep up with the dramatic development in Denmark .” 
 
As renewable energy becomes a bigger part of the electricity mix, grids need to adjust how to 
transport that electricity. Unlike with conventional generation, wind and solar are often not available 
where they are consumed, which means the electricity needs to be transported over longer distances, 
usually at high voltages to minimize loss. Power transformers are a crucial link in this chain, as they 
enable both that long -distance transport, as well as the conversion between high -voltage for 
transporting and lower -voltage for consumers.  
 
Siemens Energy has been manufacturing power transformers for more than a century . This new  
agreement is the continuation of a long -standing partnership with Danish Energinet, the 
independent public enterprise owned by the Danish Ministry of Climate, Energy and Utilities  which 
own s, operate s, and develop s the transmission systems for electricity and gas in Denmark . This 
includes the recently inaugurated Viking Link, the world’s longest interconnector between Denmark 
and the UK .  
 
 
Contact for journalists  
International: Oliver Sachgau   
Phone:   +49 1732 7292 31 
E-mail:  oliver.sachgau@siemens -energy.com   
 
Denmark: Mette Blach Strøyer  
Phone:  +45 2139  1344  
Email:  mette.stroeyer@siemens -energy.com   
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power pla nts operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers.  
Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An 
estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens 
Energy employs around 99,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated  revenue of €31 billion in 
fiscal year 2023 . www.siemens -energy.com  