Egypt’s First Graduates of the Trainer Incubator 
Programme (TIP) Ready to Enter Workforce
TIP graduates complete fully funded 9-month certification program
Graduates are now “Master Trainers” in vocational training 
The Egyptian German Technical Academy (EGT Academy) graduated its first group of Certified Master 
Trainers from the Trainer Incubator Programme (TIP). This programme is part of the Strategic Alliance 
between Siemens Energy in Egypt and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit- (GIZ) 
Egypt, implemented on behalf of the German Government in the framework of its commitment to 
Egypt’s economic development.
The fully funded Trainer Incubator Programme (TIP) took place at EGT Academy, a state-of-the-art 
training hub for vocational training in the region located in Ain Sokhna. Over the past nine months, ten 
young talents from the Egyptian industry and academia, who had the required hands-on experience, 
were trained to become master trainers in the Egyptian market.
“We all have a responsibility to support our country’s social and economic growth and occupational 
education is definitely a major pillar in this respect. This group graduating today is only the beginning,” 
said Emad Ghaly, Managing Director of Siemens Energy in Egypt. “I am proud that Siemens Energy is part 
of this initiative that will enable Egyptian youth to create a better future for themselves, their 
communities and the Egyptian society.”  
The training was conducted in partnership with Industrie Handelskammer (IHK) and covered the context 
and scope of providing vocational education and training; curriculum development and course design; 
technical training and quality management, among other subjects. It concluded with the development of 
a complete 40h course (including logbook, time tabling, development of lessons, exercises, and exams 
corresponding to learning outcomes as well as teaching materials) for technicians, advanced students, 
graduates, technical faculties from local universities in Egypt.
-End- 

Contact for journalists
Siemens Energy
Mariam Arsanios
Phone:  01006078437
E-mail: mariam.arsanios@siemens-energy.com
GIZ Egypt
Hana Amin
Phone:  +201006692733
E-mail: hana.amin@giz.de
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is available at
www.siemens-energy.com/press
For further information on topic, please see www.egtacademy.com
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/ EGTAcademy
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of
products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and
transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More
than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa
Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the
electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs
more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year
2020. www.siemens-energy.com.
Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH  is a service provider in the field of international
cooperation for sustainable development. Operating in Egypt since 1956, GIZ provides technical expertise, develops capacities,
and delivers effective solutions in close partnership with local governmental and non-governmental organizations. GIZ supports
Egypt in its efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Strategy: Egypt Vision 2030 to create better social and economic
prospects for the Egyptian people. On behalf of the German Government, the European Union, and other parties, GIZ
implements projects in all parts of Egypt in the following areas of cooperation: Energy, Water, Urban Development, Sustainable
Economic Development and Governance. https://www.giz.de/en/worldwide/319.html