Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Riyadh , July 29, 2021  
Siemens Energy to power Saudi housing 
megaproject  
• Siemens Energy to supply reliable power to community of more than 30,000 homes in Saudi 
Arabia’s capital city Riyadh  
• One of the largest transmission contracts in the country  
 
Siemens Energy will strengthen the transmission network in Saudi Arabia’s capital, Riyadh, bringing 
power to more than 30,000 homes in ROSHN’s first residential community in Riyadh, which spans 
across 20 million squar e meters .  
 
The Kingdom’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) officially launched ROSHN as one of its four 
mega projects  in 2020 with the aim of developing communities in major cities across the Kingdom, 
to increase the rate of Saudi home ownership to 70%, and sup port job creation as per Vision 2030.  
 
ROSHN’s Riyadh community will comprise of mosques, shops, cafes, parks, schools, and leisure and 
entertainment facilities. It is the first of many communities to be developed by ROSHN.  
 
“This contract will enable Siemens Energy to create more jobs for Saudi talents and will provide 
homes to meet the needs of Saudi families. One of our main values as Siemens Energy is to care for 
the communities where we live and so it is an honor for us to be able to contribute to such a great 
project,” said Mahmoud Sul aimani, Managing Director of Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia.  
 
The grid project will boost transmission capacity and feed power to the new integrated urban 
community project. Siemens Energy will provide engineering, supply, construction, installation, and 
commissioning of grid stations which connect the residential community to the Saudi National Grid.  
 
“Siemens Energy will help deliver electricity to this sustainable urban community, ensuring the 
safety, reliability and security of the power supplies to re sident and visitors,” said Mahmoud Hanafy, Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
Vice President, Grid Stabilization , Middle East . “The project reiterates our commitment to enable 
more resilient, reliable and greener power grids.”  
 
Siemens Energy will break ground on the project in July . Work i s expected to be energized by May 
2023 and completed by August 2023.  
 
Due to the rapidly accelerating development plans, Saudi Arabia is emerging as one of the largest 
markets worldwide for power transmission and grid projects. The government is committed to 
invest in new infrastructure projects. Today , almost 30 percent  of the power transmitted in the 
Kingdom relies on Siemens Energy’s technology.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Name : Asma Alsharif  
Phone: +966567635359  
E-mail: asma.alsharif@siemens.com  
 
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is available at 
www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
  
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmissi on to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been d ecarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Sieme ns Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 