T3000 simulates  
what T3000  
controls
Omnivise T3000 Simulatorsiemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
The challenge
Even with the best control system, operating 
generation units is no easy task. In-depth knowl-
edge of the plant remains indispensable for 
critical situations. Especially in remote locations, 
skilled personal is sometimes hard to find, and 
experienced plant operators must train and  
qualify new operators on site.
Simulation not only supports training, but also 
provides the ability to test the initial engineering 
of the control systems or changes in process en-
gineering before possible faults may impact plant 
operation. In addition, simulation enables you to 
virtually commission and optimize plants.
Most I&C simulation systems are based on the in-
troduction of dedicated simulation software and 
hardware, which requires additional investments 
and implies coordination efforts.
Our solution
T3000 Simulator is our fully integrated digital 
process and automation twin of Omnivise T3000 
and all kinds of generation units that rely on 
T3000. It is not a separate system; it is part of 
Omnivise T3000 and thus provides immediate 
and direct simulation in the T3000 Workbench.
Training and testing directly in T3000 are possible 
from the very beginning and overcome synchro-
nization problems: Simulated engineering data 
can be easily implemented in the actual T3000 
configuration. Your benefits
• 1:1 simulation  
Digital twin of T3000 shows the real plant 
behavior before any real change is made
• Keep and build plant know-how  
Hands-on staff training with the actual control 
system already during commissioning
• Better basis for decision-making  
Detailed testing of the effects of measures  
in engineering, changes or adjustments  
in Omnivise T3000
•  Easy handling and cost security  
No additional software/hardware required

Only 4 steps to simulation
Open simulation in T3000 Workbench  
Start a new project via the T3000  
Workbench.
Load initial condition  
Open the “Instructor Station” application.  
Select and load a snapshot. All the real  
settings of this plant fragment are now  
simulated.Lean system setup
Since the Omnivise T3000 Simulator is fully  
embedded in Omnivise T3000 and thus runs on 
the existing T3000 hardware and software, system 
startup is easy.
•  Simulation running on Application Server
•  Automation Server, I/O modules, field devices  
and processes integrated in T3000 Simulator
•  Integrated process models provided
•  Control functionality  
– Run, Freeze  
– Load IC  
 (Initial Condition)Omnivise T3000 Simulator1
 3
2 4
Thin Clients Server I/O modules ProcessesAutomation
ServerApplication
Server
Simulated in Omnivise T3000As the simulation is running on the Application 
Server, no separate hardware, physical instructor 
stations or software applications are needed. 
Licenses and libraries – which you can download 
– are the only things you need to start. 
Integrated process models and the coupling of 
external process models enable simulation from 
low- to high-fidelity.
– Snapshot  
– Malfunctions  
– Backtrack
Operate simulation  
Select a view to adapt parameters and witness 
the direct implications in the selected view.
Start Training with malfunctions  
Select a malfunction in the library (e.g., steam 
leakage), adjust and trigger it (e.g., leakage 
amount, activation time, ramp time). The 
instructor may assign a malfunction to the 
trained operator, who can now test his skills 
in finding the malfunction and take action. 
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only  
when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens 
Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third 
parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Gas Services
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy Inc.
Gas Services
4400 N Alafaya Trail 
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000