siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000Omnivise T3000 
Simulator
A changing industry 
context
Market complexity
The energy generation environment is changing rapidly, and this  
is driving the need for new ways to plan, test, monitor and manage  
all forms of power generation. In developed countries, especially, 
growing use of renewables is also changing the ways in which 
 established, conventionally powered plants are being used.  
Energy markets are becoming more complex, with a need for greater 
flexibility in how they operate. These rapid changes are happening  
at a time of growing skills shortages, as a generation of experienced 
engineers retire, and the industry struggles to replace them. 
Large, centralised plants are extremely 
complex systems in themselves, and the 
commercial and technology environments 
in which they operate are also becoming 
more difficult to predict and manage. 
Though the move to distributed power 
generation is happening at different 
speeds in different markets, yet it is 
happening everywhere, step by step.  
A major side-effect of this development  
is that conventional plants, built for  
steady state operation, sometimes need  
to operate outside their original design 
parameters.To manage this new reality, skilled 
 engineers are being challenged to move 
beyond their established areas of exper -
tise. We believe it is not enough for them 
to understand their own plants in detail, 
they also need to understand the wider 
market context – which adds further 
complexity to the work of control centre 
personnel. For example, operators may  
be required to handle more than one type 
of plant, due to the shortage of skilled 
personnel. It is quite normal for the same 
engineering teams, for example, to be 
responsible for combined cycle, biomass 
and wind generation plants, all at the 
same time. 
2
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator
In dealing with these complex require-
ments, the Instrumentation and Controls 
(I&C) solution in use has a central role.  
It gives operators a detailed Human 
Machine Interface (HMI) that shows 
exactly what is happening in any given 
plant. An effective modern control solu-
tion should support automation, enable 
fast intervention when required and, 
above all, show clearly the status of  
all operational systems. In practice,  
this means that if operators can manage 
the I&C system, they can also manage  
the plant, itself.
In this context, simulation is becoming 
more important than ever, for testing 
options, trying out different configura-
tions, and identifying potential issues in 
advance, while defining workarounds and 
solutions – all in a virtual environment.  
This is the key to operational efficiency 
and energy security, as the energy land-
scape continues to evolve.
A new approach to 
training
Perhaps the single most urgent issue 
driving use of simulation is the need  
to replace skilled staff as they retire.  
Power generation businesses not  
only have to recruit new engineers on  
a one-to-one basis, they must also help 
new employees rapidly gain a wider range 
of new and different skills, while keeping 
operational costs under control. One additional concern is the need to  
train engineers without giving them the 
same opportunities (as in the past) to work 
alongside more experienced personnel. 
These days, a new engineer is likely to go 
through a relatively short training period 
and then be expected to work as an 
 operator at once – and that can be very 
challenging for them. This explains why 
simulation solutions are now so important 
to all power generation companies. 
In practice, the intensity of the work 
required cannot always be covered by  
“on the job training”. Operators must  
be trained offline, and the best tool for 
achieving this is through simulators.  
That’s because simulation platforms  
enable rapid training, not just on systems 
that are operating normally, but also on 
systems under stress, unusual pressure  
or threat of imminent failure. 
In an increasingly complex industry, 
dealing with skills shortages and an 
accelerating speed of change, training 
under realistic conditions is now more 
important and urgent than ever. 
Continuous training approaches are needed to make sure operators react correctly in case of difficulties. Knowledge  
level
tCritical knowledge  
for effective handling 
of disruptions
Knowledge gapContinuous trainig
Initial and sproadic
training only
3
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator
A new role for simulators
Why effective simulation matters
Simulation enables teams and individuals to try out a comprehensive 
range of scenarios, from everyday steady running to the most unusual 
and rare cases of system failure. Above all, simulators can resolve some 
of the most urgent and compelling issues that concern management 
today, where skills development is concerned. They provide training 
without risk, enabling engineers to become familiar with the systems 
they will soon be operating for real, but to do so without any possibility 
of causing harm, inconvenience or other hazard to the business or 
themselves.  
The ability to run simulations from  
any device, anywhere adds new options 
for skills development and management  
of complex systems. The focus should  
not just be on “what may go wrong”, as 
simulation makes it possible to work on 
the potential for optimization in different 
kinds of operational situations. 
This matters because:
• Faults need to be eliminated in advance 
wherever possible, as the cost of faults 
increases by a factor of 10 from stage 
to stage of development.
• It is 6 times more costly to fix a bug 
identified in operational systems than 
to eliminate it at design stage.
• The number of skilled workers aged  
55 or over has increased in the EU  
from 12% to 20% according to the 
latest Eurostat figures, which cover  
the 15 years between 2004 and 2019.1  
The potential loss of skills through 
retirement is a major issue, which 
makes timely, effective training an 
urgent necessity.
In an industry that is subject to rapid 
change, shortfalls in engineering skills,  
and the need to develop more flexible 
operational options, simulators are  
a necessary requirement. So how do we 
build and operate simulation solutions 
that can be trusted to deliver the training 
and test test support required today and 
into the future? Let’s start with digital 
twins.The role of digital twins 
A digital twin is designed to be a detailed, 
accurate virtual replica of a real system, 
working in parallel and able to replicate 
the same operating conditions, and this 
concept is now well understood. It is   
in use across many different industries, 
ranging from power generation, which  
is the area that concerns us, to aircraft 
controls, smart cities, road and rail 
networks: wherever many different 
 variables coexist and influence each  
other inside a single system. 
In power generation, the most important 
use of digital twins is for process models: 
tracking and identifying/diagnosing the 
ways in which a specific process operates 
under different conditions, with varying 
inputs and influencing factors. They can 
also be used for thermodynamic models 
(covering factors like physical performance 
– heat, pressure, energy, etc.). 
We should note that process models  
are not homogenous and consist of 
components and other areas that are 
modelled differently. The main categories 
are physical based, functional, assumed 
conditions and fixed static values.
4
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator1Ageing Europe – looking at the lives of older people in the EU, Eurostat, 2020
Types of digital twins
There are different types of digital twin 
which are used for different purposes in  
the power generation industry. One type  
is connected to real time data flows, 
staying dynamically updated to reflect  
the true status of an operational system.  
By contrast, non real-time, static digital 
twins can be used to optimize operational 
performance by identifying the best opera-
tional points, while predicting the effects  
of aging. 
The non real-time approach is now being 
used to build simulators that are kept 
physically separate from operational  
assets, so they can be used for testing  
and training. This enables us to use a 
digital twin to create a virtual environment 
that accurately reflects operational reality, 
but does not use real time data flows and  
is not connected to the production systems. 
This is the key to building an effective 
training simulator. It has much in common 
with digital twins in terms of realism and 
accuracy, but strict physical separation of 
the training environment from operations 
means that all forms of training can be 
carried out without risk to the business. 
Building an effective 
simulation solution
Given the speed of change in the power 
generation industry, it is vitally important 
for the industry to have the means of 
testing, trying out and proving all tech-
niques in virtual systems before commit-
ting to real world applications, and only 
simulation can provide this option.  
To become a normal, regular part of the 
engineer’s toolkit, however, simulation 
needs to be affordable, easy to access  
and intuitive to use. This has not always been the case,  
so what is changing now? 
In the past, simulation solutions were 
normally hybrids, built from modules 
provided by a range of external partners. 
This is because component and assembly 
providers originally developed simulation 
modules that covered only their own 
components, which made the process  
for sourcing and building simulation 
 solutions complex and costly. 
At one point it was quite common,  
for example, to require several different 
servers to run the solution, one for each 
vendor application involved. In turn, that 
led to the need for dedicated expert teams 
to maintain the solution, a complex 
programme of upgrades, and the need  
to train operators on each application 
separately. This had the unfortunate effect 
of raising costs, placing restrictions on use, 
and generally making the simulator appear 
to be a specialised, high-cost resource, 
rather than a normal, everyday business 
tool. 
The industry has now advanced beyond 
this point, with simulators that include 
different model categories, enabling  
a single system to replicate the entire 
production environment. 
Despite this advance, however, a great  
deal of complexity remains in the form  
of multiple software packages, interfaces 
and – sometimes – more than one server  
to enable all options to be covered. 
5
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 SimulatorThe fragmented, piecemeal approach 
described above is not a practical 
solution for most power generation 
companies. Siemens Energy has 
therefore developed a simpler, more 
integrated and, above all, practical 
method.
Omnivise T3000 Simulator
Towards a faster, more streamlined approach 
In designing the Omnivise T3000 Distributed Control System (DCS), 
Siemens Energy took the decision to break away completely from the 
problems that limited the value of conventional simulators by making 
simulation a built-in, fully embedded component of the control system. 
In other words, simulation functionality 
now comes as standard. The simulator  
is entirely composed of internally sourced 
elements (everything from a single 
source), making it simpler, lower risk  
and more cost effective to use. As the 
simulator is based on the same T3000 
application software as that used in the 
real plant, any changes made on the 
operational system can be transferred  
to the simulator by taking a backup from 
the plant and importing it to the simulator. 
In this way the simulator and operational 
systems can very easily be kept aligned. In the T3000 Simulator, the user interface 
is identical, while the system responses and 
the routines followed by the engineers are 
also the same. The T3000 Simulator can 
run in a virtual environment on any kind 
of hardware, including a laptop. In an 
industry, where remote teams are tasked 
with managing fleets of production assets 
on multiple sites, the ability to train, 
model and test via virtual teaming is  
a huge long-term advantage. 
Omnivise T3000 Simulator Omnivise T3000 
6
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator
The Simulator includes the following 
key characteristics:
Process models.  Every simulation 
 environment is based on processes and 
process flows. This requires the developers 
to identify all elements that contribute to 
a specific process, provide the equations 
that define how each element within each 
process model relates to every other 
element, and ensure realistic responses  
to every change. 
To give one example, for heat exchangers 
it is necessary to model what happens 
when heat transfer changes at different 
load conditions and how multiple heat 
exchangers influence each other. Or in 
mixed generation, how disturbances in 
renewable energy production affect the 
overall working of a conventional plant. This requires calibration testing and proof 
of assumptions before the virtualized 
process models can be used.
Easy updating. Mathematics is the  
basis for any simulator, as mathematical 
calculations define how each component 
in the virtual environment responds.  
As changes of configuration or updating 
of components take place in the opera-
tional system, similar changes must be 
made to the virtual system that mirrors  
it (the simulator). Since the simulator  
is also located within the same T3000 
software as the operational system,  
it becomes much easier to update 
compared to conventional simulators, 
where multiple systems may be involved. 
This ensures that the simulator will always 
replicate the operational environment  
as closely as possible.Key components of the Omnivise T3000 Simulator 
Now let’s look beneath the surface of the T3000 Simulator to under -
stand its main components and points of difference when compared 
with previous solutions. 
To make the simulator work effectively, 
we must be completely certain that 
altering one parameter in the simulator 
will have the same (or very similar) 
effect on the simulated environment,  
as altering the same parameter in  
the real system will have on the opera-
tional environment.
7
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator
Omnivise T3000 Simulator
Accurate data flows. We have already 
seen how simulators can be made more 
accurate by use of true data from the 
operational environment, and by the 
rigour imposed on definitions of process 
models. The virtual environment must 
work according to the same laws of 
physics that govern all forms of power 
generation. That includes conservation of 
energy and mass, and accurate, trust-
worthy responses to all physical changes. 
T3000 provides functionality that enables 
simulation to be carried out inside the 
T3000 control system. In practice, 
however, for an operator training  
the simulator will be set up on its own 
platform to ensure there is no risk to  
the operational systems. For this reason, 
the simulator should be air-gapped from 
the physical production environment and 
will run on a separate device, which may 
be a server but can also be a laptop. 
For engineering test validation however, 
the Distributed Control System (DCS) of 
the operational platform may be used for 
carrying out simulations, provided this is 
done before it becomes operational.  
Our goal is to ensure that engineering  
and plant data is used to measure and  
test operation of the virtual system, 
ensuring it remains accurate at all times. 
This is a specialized and complex task.User Interface.  We have already made  
it clear that the simulator should be kept 
physically separate from the production 
controls. Why? Because it is the task  
of the user interface to be completely 
identical to the real T3000 system.  
It is not simply a model: The HMI is 
 identical in visualisation, behaviour  
and methods of interaction, to the  
point where engineers or operators  
may not be able to tell whether they  
are interacting with the simulator or  
the operational system. As Omnivise 
T3000 Simulators are an integral part  
of T3000 itself, with software maintained 
and updated as part of overall DCS 
updates, this similarity is a core feature  
of the solution.
8
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 SimulatorThe relevance and effectiveness of the 
T3000 Simulator is best demonstrated 
through reference to real operations,  
so now let’s explore how we set it up  
and put it to work.
T3000 Simulator  
structure and setup
Figure 1 : Simplified view of the simulator architectureT3000 Hardware T3000 Simulator
Simulated  
elementsSetup of the system
Built-in simulation functionality, within 
Omnivise T3000, enables rapid set-up,  
as no new hardware is needed (everything 
can run on the T3000 Application Host). 
Engineering Testing is carried out on the 
real T3000 system, while an “air-gapped”, 
physically separate platform (such as  
a laptop) is used for operator training  
to avoid risk to operations.
Scale and scope. The T3000 Simulator  
can be used with many different plant 
types, from combined cycle to gas, from 
hydro to coal-fired, and for renewable 
options and hybrid solutions of every kind. 
This solution was always designed to be as 
future-proofed as possible. Asset scale is 
also not an issue. The simulator can match 
and model the functionality of the wider 
T3000 solution, itself. 
Architecture. The simulator mirrors  
the structure of T3000 itself and is based 
on four layers, as shown in figure 1 below.The component layers are:
• T3000 Clients, enabling access and  
the same user interface from the most 
basic terminal, with no special require-
ments for memory or speed.
• Server layer, with automation controllers 
present as virtual controllers  running 
inside the T3000 Application Host.
• Input/Output modules to deal with the 
flow of data from and to the generation 
asset(s) and is also modelled inside 
T3000 Simulator as mirror proxies 
inside the T3000 Application Host.
• Process layer, which manages  
the process flow calculations and  
feeds back system responses to  
the operator. This is also present  
within the T3000 Application Host.
T3000 Clients T3000 Clients
Hosts Hosts
I/O modules I/O modules
Processes ProcessesT3000  
Application Host T3000  
Application Host T3000 
ControllerT3000 
Controller
9
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator
Low fidelityMedium fidelityHigh fidelity
Medium fidelity systems build on  
the base level and use real data as well 
as empirical modelling to ensure that 
outputs include conservation of mass 
and energy, going beyond synthetic  
or theoretical calculations to provide  
a more reliable picture of the real 
system in operation. 
This type of solution is ideally suited  
to auxiliary areas, which do not affect 
the main heat balance. Examples 
include lubrication oil system or vibra-
tion analysis, where it is possible to 
use a simple approach to show what 
happens when pumps are operated.Low fidelity systems provide basic 
“tiebacks” (in which the operator sees 
output from individual components 
and assemblies based on specific 
inputs). 
This model is appropriate in some cases, 
for example, when modelling a grid 
system, where very detailed working 
of the individual power generation 
components is not required. It 
provides a basic simulation solution 
with some droop characteristics.High fidelity  systems represent  
the most effective and trustworthy 
level of digital twin technology.  
The models used faithfully represent 
mass and heat balance, and are suited 
to representing heat exchangers inside 
the main boiler, main pumps and 
valves, or turbines and other complex 
components. 
In almost every sense, this kind  
of system is representing in detail  
the real plant, virtualized. It models 
process streams end to end and 
responds accurately to automated 
system and process changes/inputs.  
As you would expect, such a solution 
will require much more upfront 
process design work and is more  
costly to maintain.Functionality.  The physical production 
assets are managed through data flows 
coming from IO modules and intelligent 
field devices, which interface with the 
controls via Input/Output modules.  
The engineered backup is taken from  
the operational system and imported  
into the simulator server.
• A tie-back is then created, using 
 proprietary blocks we call Mirror 
 Proxies.
• These are linked to the Hardware  
Proxy, which represents the IO modules.
• And are also linked to the Partner 
Functions, which simulate the different 
types of field device, such as motors, 
valves and other hardware. 
The T3000 Simulator uses the controls 
backup and integrated process model  
of the real operational system, which can 
be customized to ensure complete data 
consistency, eliminating the need for ex- 
ternal software. In addition, it is possible to 
establish a connection to external process 
modelling software to ensure maximum 
flexibility and even higher levels of detail, 
while also future-proofing the solution.
Human Machine Interface (HMI)  
As far as trainees and operators are 
concerned, the simulated process appears 
identical to the same process within the 
physical operational environment, as long as all virtual components (Mirror Proxies, 
Partner  Functions and Process Models)  
are correctly updated to reflect changes  
within the physical environment. 
This means that operator training on  
the Simulator can always work within  
an up-to-date, accurate representation  
of the physical system, which simplifies  
and accelerates the process of moving  
from the virtual to the real operational 
environment.
Levels of complexity
The T3000 Simulator can be designed to 
reflect the customer’s exact requirements, 
ranging from low to high fidelity, as 
desired.  We should be careful, however, 
not to confuse fidelity with accuracy. 
• Fidelity is the term used to define the 
levels of exactness with which a real 
operational system is reproduced in  
the simulation. 
• Accuracy of a model is defined by 
whether parts of a process model  
are based on assumed conditions; 
simplified or functional modelling;  
or a physically based model (which 
provides maximum accuracy). 
At least three different levels of fidelity  
are available when it comes to building 
and commissioning a virtual, simulation 
solution.
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator
10
Current use cases 
Omnivise T3000 simulators are being used right now at very different  
types of power plants for training and testing. 
Omnivise T3000 Simulator in operation
Once set up is complete, operators can 
proceed to using the simulator for every 
potential purpose. This includes training 
operators and engineers (individuals or 
teams, on a single site or remotely based), 
testing operational assumptions and parameters, or simulation of specific  
states to see how the assets will respond 
(for example, to simulated faults and 
malfunctions).
In simple terms, we have a four-step 
approach, as shown in the figure below:
1Open simulation 
in T3000  
Workbench
2Load initial 
condition3Run  
simulation
4Start  
training with 
malfunctions
Schweinfurt 
local utilityAt Schweinfurt, the local utility GKS, which was created  
to provide power to industrial users, while at the same 
time disposing of waste through incineration, uses  
a T3000 Simulator. It is backed by detailed process 
models from another partner, to train engineers while 
testing plant configuration and optimising performance. 
GKS staff can now test different scenarios, optimize 
processes, and control the plants safely. Simulation 
allows staff to effectively prepare for what-if scenarios 
involving the plants.
11
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator11
Let’s take a closer look 
at these stages
Open the simulation in T3000 Work -
bench. Users, both instructors and 
trainees, can select simulation projects  
via preconfigured screens or select an 
existing project via “Project View/ Plant 
Hierarchy”. The user interface is the real 
T3000 system: it is not a model or copy 
but the real system itself. Figure 3 shows 
the layout Plant Display for a combined 
cycle gas turbine in schematic form,  
with a drop down that enables the oper -
ator to select the HMI they require  
to operate the plant inside the Simulator,  
as shown in the image. The process  
model stays the same, but the view  
can vary as required.
Load initial condition. The instructor 
loads an initial condition (which is a 
training scenario). Loading the initial 
conditions primes the Simulator with  
the correct process conditions and values, 
according to the selected initial conditions, 
such as Cold Startup, Warm Startup or 
other option.Run the simulation.  The operator/
instructor can now select the view they 
wish to test or use for training, and then 
adapt the parameters as required.  
They can adjust load test variables, which 
will lead to changes in the selected view. 
After the initial condition is loaded,  
the instructor can select RUN, which will 
begin the simulation from the selected 
initial condition.  
Start training. One of the most common 
options is to introduce a malfunction and 
show the impact this has on the wider 
system over time. The instructor can intro-  
duce a malfunction at any time, causing 
the T3000 Simulator to behave in the 
same way as the real operational system 
under similar circumstances. Trainees then 
need to find ways to respond effectively, 
enabling them to work through increas -
ingly serious and dramatic scenarios, with a 
sense of great realism but without any risk 
to operations.
Figure 2: setting up the T3000 Simulator 12
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 SimulatorFigure 3: setting up the T3000 Simulator
Figure four below is a real snapshot of the 
operator screen during the running of  
a simulation. It shows the impact of steam 
leakage in the system, a problem that  
will become increasingly damaging over  
a period of minutes and potentially hours. 
For training purposes, an operator will  
be presented with this malfunction, which 
plays out on the screen as a representa-
tion of the virtual system.No matter what their level of experience, 
engineers will need to be tested on these 
potential scenarios to ensure they know 
the correct actions to take. The operator’s 
own input will be integrated with auto-
mated responses built into the system, 
enabling the response to be highly  
realistic.
Figure 3: Malfunction training
13
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator
Omnivise T3000
T
e
s
t
i
n
g
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
A
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
 
a
n
d
 
o
p
t
i
m
i
z
a
t
i
o
nThe power generation industry is facing 
major challenges due to an unusual conver -
gence of several different factors. These 
include:
• Changes in generation technology,  
with the rise of intermittent power 
sources.
• Grids which are more distributed.
• The need for more frequent ramping  
 up and down of conventional power 
plants to cover for intermittent sources.
• Mass retirement of a skilled workforce. mirror proxies via partner functions, 
providing a realistic experience while 
leaving the engineering untouched.
Field devices. In the simulation, these are 
represented by Partner Function Blocks. 
Functional testing. The process model  
that the operator wishes to examine can 
now be tested, using functionality that 
replicates the physical operation of that 
specific process. 
Benefits for engineering tests. Testing 
now becomes routine, with engineering 
tests, normally using tie-back simulation, 
ensuring that the engineering of the real 
plant is correct and interacts with the 
process models as desired. 
Benefits for operator training.  
Training becomes faster and more effec-
tive, enabling engineers to reach higher 
levels of competence. Costs are limited  
and controlled, while operators can 
 experiment and learn without risk.  
General benefits. For engineers under -
going training, or for operational engineers 
reviewing an operational scenario and 
identifying potential areas for optimization, 
the experience is the same. Working with 
the T3000 Simulator User Interface is 
indistinguishable from working with the 
physical real T3000 system.Omnivise T3000 Simulator: the benefits checklist
By making a simulator that exactly 
 replicates the physical status and actions 
of the plant in operation, operators can 
train without risk or hazards, gaining 
real hands-on experience without the 
worry that comes with training in a real 
plant environment. Any one of these changes would be 
enough to drive instability in the market, 
while for all of these to happen at the same 
time is a major challenge for the industry. 
We can be certain of one thing, which is 
the ability to test, refine, update, test again, 
train, optimize, review, accurately, without 
additional hardware and without risk to 
operations is now a basic requirement. 
Because it is an integral part of the T3000 
system, the Omnivise T3000 Simulator 
offers transformational benefits to power 
generation businesses, and is a crucial 
component in keeping them competitive, 
efficient, compliant and relevant in  
a changing world. It delivers:
Simulation as standard. No specialized 
hardware is required for the simulation.  
It can run on the T3000 Application Host, 
with a virtual machine, even on a laptop. 
Realism through use of mirror proxies.   
A tie back is generated using mirror proxies. 
The process model is connected to these At a time of change, with the operational 
landscape moving forward in sometimes 
unpredictable ways, the ability to review 
different scenarios and drive continuous 
improvement is simply vital. 
14
Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator
Integrated with T3000 DCS,  
Simulator comes “as standard”.
Engineering and testing takes place in the same 
 environment, using the T3000 Application Host  
Workbench without changing tools. Users can  
move between engineering and testing while  
using the same engineering environment. 
Instructor station is fully integrated with  
the solution. 
Device level simulation is generated automatically,  
with very rapid simulation setup.
The solution can use scalable process models, including 
low, medium and high fidelity, with varying levels of  
accuracy, as required. 
The T3000 Simulator offers different options for  
virtualization, including T3000 Application Host, 
 cloud-based and mobile devices.T3000 Simulator summary
The Omnivise T3000 Simulator delivers all these 
benefits in a single package. They reduce the risk and 
cost of testing, accelerate installation and uptake, and 
improve the quality of operator training at a time of 
enormous change in the power generation industry.
15Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000 Simulator
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Gas Services  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy. Inc  
Gas Services  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
TH E23-230375