siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
The task
The Siemens Energy Team was contracted to 
implement the Omnivise T3000 control system 
at the South district heating plant, including all 
control functions and the integration into the 
plant’s existing network setup.
A particular challenge here was the integration 
of the plant into the three existing district  
heating networks, each with different pressure 
systems. For this purpose, the team installed a 
complex district heating network switchover, 
which is also controlled by the Siemens Energy 
control system. 
To avoid unnecessary high load transients as 
well as a lot of startups and shutdowns of the 
sensitive submersible centrifugal pump, the 
Omnivise T3000 control system uses a strong 
control for the thermal water system.The plant
At Stadtwerke München (Munich’s City Utilities), 
Germany's largest geothermal plant with six 
drillings between 2,670 and 3,140 meters deep 
has been in trial operation since 2021. To ensure 
high availability, the three drilling pairs, or  
doublets, are divided among three heat lines. 
The total plant currently has a thermal output  
of 50 megawatts. In full operation this plant  
produces enough heat to supply 80,000 residents 
in an environmentally friendly way.
Stadtwerke München,
Geothermal plant
GermanyStadtwerke 
München (SWM), 
Germany
Sustainability for geothermal 
plants with Omnivise T3000
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 2“Thanks to the excellent  
cooperation with Siemens  
Energy in implementing the 
Omnivise T3000 control system, 
another milestone was reached 
in creating a sustainable, reliable,  
and efficient energy site.”
Wolfgang Lex, System Engineer Stadtwerke MünchenStadtwerke München
Benefits
• Central control of all automation tasks from the 
main control room
• Easy to understand automation functions for the 
operating personnel due to the clear FBD plans
• User-friendly HMI and easy operability of the  
proven control technologyThe solution 
To ensure high availability, the three heat lines 
have been divided in pairs among the three  
doublets. Each doublet is controlled by a highly 
redundant automation unit. A bypass operation 
is used to avoid high load transients as well as 
fast regulations to increase the lifetime of the 
sensitive pump. 
The complete plant is controlled by only a few 
operators in the main control room. This allows 
the customer to optimize the energy production 
and heat distribution of all units at the site. This 
is possible due to the multi-unit functionality of 
Omnivise T3000 which allows the operators to 
control each unit from any workstation.
At a later stage the five main units at the site 
will have an output of approximately 700 MW 
electric and 800 MW thermal, all from one main 
control room. All 19 Omnivise T3000 systems 
are interconnected to ensure reliable data 
exchange and therefore a secure heat supply  
for the city of Munich.
The decisive factor for SWM in integrating the 
geothermal plant into the existing system was 
not only the reliability of Omnivise T3000,  
but also its flexibility. For the operation of the 
geothermal plant, various couplings to external 
systems were established, such as an IEC 61850 
switchgear coupling and various Modbus TCP/IP 
and Modbus RTU (RS 485) connections.Reference | Stadtwerke München (SWM), Germany
Published by and copyright © 2023
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Gas Services  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Gas Services  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products.  
The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could 
violate the rights of the owners.