The Plant
The Northern California Power Agency (NCPA) Geyser is a 
publicly operated facility, generating power from geothermal 
wells on site. Since the mid-1980s, NCPA has operated two 
geothermal power plants in Sonoma and Lake counties, 
California, that have produced more than 27 million mega-
watt-hours of electricity for its 11 members/owners. The 
plants consist of 77 geothermal wells, two 110-MW power 
plants (with two 55-MW generating units each) and 
associated steam pipeline facilities.
The Task
The goal of the modernization was to provide a complete 
control package using pre-designed integration drawings, 
with minimal installation challenges. Striving to permit ease 
of operation and ease of maintenance, Siemens Energy was 
tasked with updating the first of two plants, focusing on the 
BoP, generator and turbine control systems to a state-of-the-
art DCS system, which can easily be expanded into a plant-
wide DCS system in the future. Another goal of the modern-
ization was to improve the control of the steam valves with a 
high pressure oil system and closed loop servo control steam 
valves.Northern California
Power Agency (NCPA)
Our Solution
The solution provided, Omnivise T3000, uses a state-of-the-
art object-oriented programming platform, utilizing pre-built 
functions blocks and templates to maximize programming  
and configuration efficiencies. The built-in I&C diagnostics 
require no additional equipment, allowing for optimized 
maintenance strategies. Omnivise T3000’s operator interface 
allows for structured monitoring and control of the entire 
generation system through user-specific roles that provide 
the correct view for operation, maintenance, engineering, 
optimization or management. Also performed during the 
modernization was the conversion from a low-pressure lube 
oil system to a high-pressure DEH system to enable the plant 
to achieve better performance to meet the demands of 
today’s market. The updated high-pressure hydraulic system 
for steam valve control utilizes a servo-based closed loop 
design, one of Siemens Energy’s many custom solutions.
DCS automation
solution enhances
NCPA's geothermal
operationssiemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
Published by and copyright © 2022
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany  
www.siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
15375 Memorial Drive, Suite 700  
Houston, Texas 77079  
USA 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & 
Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the 
rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.The Result
• Omnivise T3000 additionally supports the BoP and 
related systems unique to this geothermal genera -
tion facility.
• Increased operator efficiency and improved main -
tenance with real-time data and informative  
system alarms.
• All BoP and generation controls integrated into one 
DCS package, one supplier, one reliable system.“The Omnivise T3000 Distributed 
Control System is a state-of-the-art 
system that allows for increased 
operator efficiency through a 
simple and robust platform.”
Dean Watson, Northern California Power Agency
