With the power  
of water to a 
sustainable future
Comprehensive Solutions  
for Small Hydropower Plants
siemens-energy.com
Ready for the future 
Renewable energy is the linchpin of 
todays energy mix. Solar, wind, bio-mass, 
and, of course, water are vital elements 
for an environmentally compatible global 
energy supply.
In view of the need to balance economical 
needs, ecological awareness and grid 
stabili ty, hydropower stands out in terms of 
profitability, sustainability, and availability. 
Small hydropower plants in particular have 
proven to be a functional and intelligent 
source of energy.
Distributed power generation from hydro 
sources increases independence from fuel 
price developments and carbon emissions 
costs, potentially generating additional 
revenue from carbon emissions credits.Siemens Energy can draw on decades of 
experience and hundreds of small hydro -
power plants installed worldwide. The 
company is renowned for its innovation 
strength, technical excellence and out-
standing service and can serve as a system 
provider with comprehensive expertise in 
the implementation of turnkey  projects – 
nowadays also often in combination with 
wind, solar and others (hybrid plants) and 
storage systems (e. g. batteries).
Additionally, Siemens Energy is also a 
leading company in the field of digitaliza -
tion. Beside the Fleet and Control system 
solutions we can create a Digital Twin of 
your generating unit with our Sipocon H  
Optimizer to keep it optimized over its 
lifetime. This can translate into high profit -
ability and availability of the plant and low 
total cost of ownership.Making hydro energy an investment that pays off
In Véroia at the western edge of 
the Thessaloníki plain in Greece, 
the Aliakmon river is used to 
produce hydroelectric power.
Siemens Energy Hybrid Control 
combines different decentralized 
sources to optimize efficiency, 
flexibility, reliability and sustain -
ability.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2
With the power of water to a sustainable future
Expertise that generates revenue 
Proven solutions
Siemens Energy stands out as an indepen -
dent and reliable partner drawing on 
comprehensive know-how and technolo -
gies. The company promotes and continu -
ously improves innovative solutions that 
help clients operate successfully.
Siemens Energy presents one face to the 
customer for an entire project as the solu -
tion provider. Its expertise in small hydro -
power plants covers:• Turnkey solutions for the water to wire 
scope of supply
• Customized design and installation to 
meet the client’s individual needs
• Modernization of existing plants with 
minimized production losses utilizing 
parts and equipment as suitable
• Plant performance optimization using a 
digital plant model (Digital Twin)
• Integration of turbines from various 
manufacturers
• Integration of different turbines in one 
plant
• Local support, maintenance, and service 
help provide high availability
• Highest degree of operational safety and 
efficiency even for smallest plants
Hydropower plant Klimatia in 
Greece: Interior overview of 
Francis and Pelton turbines with 
synchronous generators and 
hydraulic units, medium voltage 
panels.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 3
With the power of water to a sustainable future
Project references
St. Anton, Austria  
8 MW
Scope of supply and solutions
• Complete electro-technical solution for two twin-nozzle 
Pelton-turbines rated at 4,000 kW each
• Engineering, supply, installation, and commissioning
• 5 kV switchgear, 6,300 kVA and 5,250 kVA transformers
• Supply includes 50 switchboards providing automation 
for 3,000 I / O
• Control system with redundant PROFIBUS coupling via 
Ethernet
Customer benefits
• Energy supply security
• Cost-competitive, environmentally friendly renewable 
energy
• Comprehensive electro-technical solutionSmådola, Norway  
15.5 MW
Scope of supply and solutions
Engineering, supply, erection, and commissioning of
• 3 different sized Francis turbines (9,8 / 3,25 / 1,4 MW)
• Synchronous generators
• Electrical equipment including: transformers, 22 kV and 
0,69 kV switchgear, low-voltage switch-boards automa -
tion, control and monitoring (SCADA)
Customer benefits
• Customized turnkey solutions
• Highest energy production due to high-efficiency 
 systems
• Reliable electro-mechanical components /systems
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 4
With the power of water to a sustainable future
A convincing scope of supply
As the only integrated energy company that serves the 
entire energy conversion chain with products, solutions, 
and services, Siemens Energy provides both sophisticated 
technology and substantial knowhow. This includes the 
construction of new, small hydropower plants as well as the 
modernization of existing ones. Siemens Energy is able to 
provide comprehensive solutions for small hydropower  
plants up to 30 MW unit capacity from various worldwide 
locations.
Modernization of  existing plants
If an existing plant needs to be upgraded with state-of-
the-art technology, Siemens Energy is the partner of 
choice. By using the pre-existing technical equipment that 
is already installed on site, Siemens Energy can optimize 
the technology with minimal budget requirements. 
In addition to that, Siemens Energy is able to optimise the 
plant performance of the existing plant (in case of a 
modernisation) as well as for a new-built plant by using a 
Digital Twin.The Siemens scope of supply includes:
• Turbines from leading manufacturers
• Generators, transformers
• Turbine control
• Medium-voltage switchgear
• Excitation devices, voltage and efficiency factor 
 regulators
• Machine automation
• Monitoring and control of the entire hydraulic system 
(dam, reservoir  operation, weir system, residual water 
release)
• Safety devices
• Alarm signals and telephone alerts
• Remote control devices
• Remote data transfer
• Integrated power plant control systems
• Plant Optimizer using a Digital Twin
• Lighting, power installations, earthing and lightning 
protection
• Energy feed-in to the regional network
• Linking multiple plants
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 5
With the power of water to a sustainable future
Published by 
Siemens Energy © 2021
SE GP G IC CON-S HS  
Freyeslebenstrasse 1  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
 
Unrestricted AL:N ECCN:N
 
For more information:
e-mail: contact@siemens-energy.com  
www.siemens-energy.com/small-hydro-power
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.