Your Benefits:
• Modular governor 
architecture for tailor-
made plant design
• Easy parameterizing 
without engineering 
tools
• Standardized inter -
faces, commu nication 
and arbitrary redund-
ancy concepts for a 
smooth integration
• Expandable to a 
complete plant auto-
mation system and 
scalable to all different 
unit sizes and unit 
combinations
• Meets all relevant 
international standards 
for a global use
• Performance and 
process optimization 
based on improvement 
modulesControl and Governor System
As an integral element of the  hydro-  
power plant control system, the Sipocon-H 
digital governor system combines flexible 
and modular architecture to meet tailor-
made customer requirements. Further -
more, the system serves a huge variety  
of hydropower plant control systems 
ensuring availability and proven perfor -
mance.
The Task
The hydropower plant operation and its 
performance largely depend on the turbine 
governor system. Irrespective of hardware 
properties, the system ensures a safe and 
stable operation, maximum availability as 
well as precise functionality.
Our Solution
The Sipocon-H is the core element of our 
integrated and customized hydropower plant 
automation solution. It is based on univer -
sally available PLC / DCS systems, such as the 
globally established industrial standard of 
the SIMATIC family or the SICAM 1703 family.
The system meets the highest demanding 
requirements and is easy to adapt and para-
meterize without any kind of programming.
Software and user interfaces (local and 
remote) can be provided in a variety of 
platforms, such as SIMATIC S7, PCS 7, SPPA-
T3000, SICAM, WinCC, Zenon etc.,which  
all have modular architecture and graphic 
interfaces in various designs.Operation and visualization is done via local 
and / or remote visualization systems. These 
systems provide long-term data storage and 
related reporting features, for continuous 
analysis and evaluation.
Due to its modular architecture and the 
standardized interfaces, the turbine 
governor Sipocon-H can be extended to 
a complete plant automation system.
Additionally, the system supports a com - 
prehensive range of communication solu -
tions such as Profinet, Profibus DP, Mod-  
bus TCP, OPC, IEC 60870 and IEC 61850 
amongst others.
Standard controller functions and features
• Speed control
• Power control
• Flow control
• Level control
• Open control
Typical additional applications
• Plant control: Optimized controller  
for more than one parallel energy 
 production line
• Demand side management controller
• Primary and secondary control
Standard operation modes
• Manual operation
• Automatic operation
• Remote operation
• Island mode
siemens-energy.comInstrumentation, Controls & Electrical
A proven solution for any challenge 
in hydropower automation
Small Hydropower Solution Sipocon-H
Small Hydropower Solution Sipocon-HPublished by 
Siemens Energy © 2021
SE GP G IC CON-S HS  
Freyeslebenstrasse 1  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Unrestricted AL:N ECCN:NMore than 140 years experience
The hydro-specific functions, operation and diagnostic tools 
are always individually tailored for different turbine types and systems. Our extensive experience and more than 1,000 
units installed help us to understand our customer require -
ments in both new and modernization plants.
For more information:
e-mail: contact@siemens-energy.com
www. siemens-energy.com/small-hydro-power
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and / or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Sipocon-H hydro governor control structure (Stepchain Overview)
Overview of a four-nozzles pelton turbine unit with inlet valve 
(screenshot). All relevant set-point values, parameter values and 
actual values are shown and accessible. 
Example of an operator overview screen (screenshot) showing 
• visualized and selectable controllers of this power plant. In this 
particulare hydropower plant, power control or level control are 
possible to use – but also flow-control and other modes are 
possible to be programmed. 
• measured values (e. g. speed, level,power and reactive power) 
with actual values and operating curves
• actual machine status 
• and actual machine conditions.