Your Benefits:
• Improved turbine 
efficiency
• More power 
generation with the 
same water flow
• Continuous adaptation 
to changing conditions
• Identification of weak 
points of plant 
operation
• Independent from 
turbine OEMs
• Adaptability to your 
Siemens PLC hardwareThe Challenge
The hydropower plant, through its complex-
 ity and interaction of components, is 
design  ed based on available basic raw data. 
Even if this original data is of high quality, 
the actual physical situation after installation 
will always be different. 
When operating a plant over time it becomes 
apparent that conditions and parameters 
change throughout the plant’s lifetime.
siemens-energy.comSubstantial improvement in  
power generation
Small Hydro Sipocon-H Optimizer
Renewable Energy Production
The hydro power plant system is composed of specifically designed and harmonized 
 components. As a tailor-made solution it aims to fulfill customers’ requirements. To 
achieve the targeted performance of the plant, the overall process control system opti-
mally manages the interaction of the components. It offers numerous ways to select 
modes, to switch between states and to prioritize operational aspects also dynamically.
Figure 1 : Real physical plant conditions deviate from 
the ideal designPhysical Plant
OperationSetpoints/Controller
PLCPhysical Plant
(Component Supply)Design DataConsequently, key performance targets, such 
as maximum efficiency based on water 
availability or maximum lifetime of compo-
nents or maximum productivity including 
maintenance and service aspects, etc., will 
not always be achieved.
The standard array of setpoints for the 
operating range is based on the plant design 
data. The plant design and therefore the 
setpoints are based on scaled model tests 
under laboratory conditions and rounded 
out by the design of specific components.
These setpoints are fed into the process 
control system. This means that the standard 
control loop is for ideal conditions of the 
plant which will not exist under actual 
circumstances.
The Task
The precondition for operation and perfor -
mance of the hydropower plant is completely 
determined by both the plant’s individual 
components and the dynamic boundary 
conditions at the installation location. To  
take this into account for operation and for 
improving the controlling quality, these 
insights must be considered and imple-
ment  ed in the controller structure.
Connectivity  |  SPPA-T3000Consequently, consideration of 
these effects in the model leads to 
an updated recalculation of the 
optimum setpoints and an actual 
“new current state” of the plant.
This issue is solved by the adaptive 
turbine governor Sipocon-H, which 
offers dynamic evaluation of the 
operational setpoints.
Continuous adaptation is 
conducted for the updated situa-
tion to provide maximum per  - 
formance in line with the plant  
operation strategy goals. This  
solution can either be used  
for a green field plant or for a 
modernization project.
Capture the potential  
of your Hydroelectric 
Power Plant
Do you plan to run a newly built 
Hydroelectric Power Plant or aim 
to retrofit your existing units?  
Siemens Energy Plant Optimization  
 will drive optimal operation  
setpoints for your Power Plant  
using Siemens Energy Turbine 
Governor PLC.
This model may be applied as a 
setup for a perfect startup point or 
can also be integrated as an adap-
tive approach for continuous or 
periodic optimization routines.
Get in touch with our experts!
Published by 
Siemens Energy © 2021
Controls and Digitalization Services  
Freyeslebenstrasse 19  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Printed in Germany  
Dispo xxxxxxx  
Article-No. xxxxxxx
Unrestricted AL:N ECCN:NFor more information:
energy.smallhydro.xxxxxxx@siemens.com  
www.siemens-energy.com/xxxxxxx  
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and / or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Applying specific engineering expertise, 
a virtual plant model is created, forming a 
so-called digital twin. Knowl edge of the 
essential physical influencing para meters 
and their correlation is the key to gener -
ating the corresponding digital twin.
The optimization tool Sipocon-H optimizer 
uses the digital twin and creates operational 
setpoints for the specific given conditions. 
By calculating the complete characteristic 
field of the virtual plant model, the best 
setpoints for actual power plant unit opera-
tion are evaluated. The algorithm of the 
Sipocon-H optimizer operates independently 
as a stand-alone solution and can be entered 
into the turbine governor system offline.
The setpoint array can be improved by 
calibrating with flow measurement. As an 
example, the graph in Figure 3 shows the 
overall improvement of plant efficiency 
(purple line) by optimizing the runner -
guide-vane relationship. The originally 
measured efficiency is shown (blue line) as 
a comparison. Potential improvement of up 
to 7% is obtained, in particular in the part-
load range. This total efficiency difference 
across the whole operational flow range is 
shown in detail in Figure 4.
Adaptive Turbine Governor
Much can occur over the lifetime and oper -
ating period of the plant unit. This can 
include misalignment of the adjusting 
mechanism for moving parts, varying re  - 
active power during operation. That may 
affect the production performance as well 
as aging effects such as erosion, abrasion 
and sedimentation.Figure 3 : The diagram shows the 
original measured turbine effi-
ciency (blue) and the results after 
optimizing the operational 
setpoints (purple)
Figure 4 : The diagram shows the 
turbine efficiency improvement 
at different flow rates after the 
optimizationFigure 2 : The optimizing solu-
tion integrates the actual states 
of the plant and its components
1
0,9
0,8
0,7
0,6
0,5
0,1 0,2 0,3 0,4 0,5 0,6 0,7 0,8 0,9 1,0Efﬁciency □η
Flow
0,08
0,04
0,020,06
0
0,2 0,3 0,4 0,5 0,6 0,7 0,8 0,9 1,0Efﬁciency Improvement
FlowPhysical Plant
               OperationSetpoints/PLCPhysical Plant
Optimizing ToolPlant Model      “Digital Twin”Design Data(Component Supply)
ControllerPlant performance optimization with Sipocon-H
after optimzation
before optimization