Joint press release  
  
    
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  EnBW Energie Baden -Württemberg AG  
Schelmenwasenstraße 15  
70567 Stuttgart  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich/Stuttgart , November 17, 2022  
Press release  by Siemens Energy and EnBW  
Prospects for using hydrogen in g as power plants 
are becoming tangible  
• The new equipment in EnBW’s Stuttgart -Münster district heating power plant will be H2 -ready for 
up to 100 percent hydrogen  
• Siemens Energy is supplying cutting -edge turbine technology  
 
EnBW and Siemens Energy are jointl y driving the trend of using green hydrogen as a climate -friendly fuel in 
future power plants. One important pilot project is the EnBW district heating power plant in Stuttgart -
Münster, Germany, where natural gas is expected to initially replace coal in ap proximately three years. All 
systems are constructed from the very beginning in such a way that the natural gas can be replaced with 
hydrogen as quickly and completely as possible. Two cutting -edge SGT -800 gas turbines from Siemens 
Energy are at the heart of the installation. The agreement on the overall package was sealed today in 
Stuttgart. The project in the Baden -Württemberg capital is thus taking on a pioneering role nationwide.  
 
“The fuel switch from coal to gas in Münster is an important building -block that will allow us to continue to 
have sufficient power generating capacity in the coming years,” EnBW Managing Board Member Georg 
Stamatelopoulos emphasized: “This is the only way we can support the expansion of renewable energy. 
Today’s agreement show s that we’re taking the next step very seriously. Over the medium term, we’ll be 
replacing gas as a fossil fuel with hydrogen . We’re already laying the groundwork today. This contributes to 
our goal of first significantly reducing our company’s CO 2 emissio ns and then becoming climate -neutral by 
2035.”  
 Joint p ress release  

Joint press release  
  
    
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  EnBW Energie Baden -Württemberg AG  
Schelmenwasenstraße 15  
70567 Stuttgart  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
Siemens Energy Managing Board Member Tim Holt says, “Hydrogen -fired gas power plants have an 
important role to play in the future energy mix. Hydrogen makes it possible to store energy generated by 
wind and solar farms, to transport this energy, to convert it back into electricity, and to use it where it’s 
needed. Our H 2-capable turbines give our customers the greatest possible flexibility when it comes to 
choosing their fuel while also protecting their i nvestment.”  
 
Switching to hydrogen should be as fast as possible  
The two new turbines each have an electrical output of 62 megawatts and a downstream waste heat 
recovery system . They are replacing the three coal-fired boiler s that have been at the location  until now.  
The project teams at both companies are also planning for hydrogen’s future beyond the gas turbines. 
“Pipelines, control systems, and boiler technology also have to be converted as quickly and easily as 
possible when  green hydrogen  is available ,” EnBW engineer Diana van den Bergh explained. EnBW is 
looking at a timeframe of 10 to 12 years. In the agreements, Siemens Energy provides assurance that the 
new turbines will be able to process up to a 75 percent hydrogen admixture from the time they’re  shipped 
in 202 4, and the overall package is prepared to handle 100 percent hydrogen.  
 
“We can’t yet reliably predict when green hydrogen will be available in sufficient quantity and at affordable 
prices,” EnBW Managing Board Member Georg Stamatelopoulos explained: “But the technology should be 
in place by that time. We’re not going to put the cart before the horse. Which, by the way, is the objective in 
all our fuel switch projects.”  
 
The plans for the overall project in Münster are currently on schedule . Progress is already being made on 
building a new workshop building that will provide space for the actual construction site. Once all the 
approvals have been obtained, the work on the new systems could begin in the first quarter of 2023. 
Residual waste i s and will remain the most important energy source in Münster. The city recycles 
approximately 450,000 metric tons of this waste every year and converts it into electricity and heat. 
Together with the new gas turbines, the location will continue to form th e backbone of the power and 
district heating supply system in the central Neckar region, along with the power plants in Stuttgart -
Gaisburg and Altbach/Deizisau. After the fuel switch in Münster and its sister project in Altbach, energy will 
no longer be ge nerated from coal in the Stuttgart region starting in 2025/26.  
 
Joint press release  
  
    
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  EnBW Energie Baden -Württemberg AG  
Schelmenwasenstraße 15  
70567 Stuttgart  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact s for journalists  
Siemens Energy AG 
Sabine Sill  
Phone : +49 173 7196783  
E-Mail: sabine.sill@siemens -energy.com  
 
EnBW Energie Baden -Württemberg AG  
Hans -Jörg Groscurth  
Phone : +49 711 289 -81250  
E-Mail: h.groscurth@enbw.com  
 
This press release and further material is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press  
For further information on the Business Area Gas Services , please see  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/gas -services  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on 
energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, so lutions 
and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The 
portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated  
with  hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A 
majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for 
renewable e nergies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. 
Siemens Energy employs around 92,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fisca l 
year 2022. www.siemens -energy.com  
 
With over 26,000 employees, EnBW is one of the largest energy companies in Germany and Europe. It supplies around 5.5 million 
customers with electricity, gas, water as well as services an d products in the areas of infrastructure and energy. The expansion of 
renewable energies is a cornerstone of the growth strategy and a focus of investment. EnBW will invest around 4 billion euros  in the 
further expansion of wind and solar energy by 2025. By the end of 2025, more than half of the generation portfolio is to consist of 
renewable energies. This is already having a noticeable effect on reducing CO2 emissions, which EnBW aims to halve by 2030. T he 
expansion of renewables is an important focus of  EnBW's sustainability agenda on the way to the company's climate neutrality in 
2035. www.enbw.com  