Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 4 
 
Munic h, June 10, 2021  
Siemens Energy to build  a remote -controlled gas   
fired power plant to secure Germany’s power   
supply  
 
• New gas -fired power plant to serve as special grid -related equipment  
• Plant can provide up to 300 Megawatts in as little as to 30 minutes  
• Modern service center enables purely digital remote operation  
 
Siemens Energy will build a new turnkey gas -fired power plant as special grid -related equipment in 
Leipheim, southwestern Bavaria, in a contract with LEAG, an energy provider based in eastern 
Germany. The grid s upporting  plant  will be used at the request of  the transmission grid operator 
Amprion to ensure grid stability in an emergency and therefore ensure a reliable power supply in 
southern Germany. Emergency situations can occur when there’s a failure of equipment in the grid, 
like cables . The Leipheim gas -fired power plant will be used exclusively to protect and ensure the 
reliability of the transmission grid. It ’s therefore not available to the free energy market, according 
to the German Energy Industry Act ( Energiewirtschaftsgesetz). The special grid -related equipment 
in Leipheim will be able to supply an electrical capacity of up to 300 Megawatts in a maximum 
period of 30 minutes. Siemens Energ y will also manage its operation and maintenance (O&M), 
initially  for five years, in collaboration with LEAG. The plant will be operated entirely from Siemens 
Energy’s ISO -certified Remote O&M Support Center (ROMSC) in Erlangen, Bavaria. This means that it 
will be one of the first  power plants worldwide  to be operated p urely digitally from a remote 
location.  
 
The special grid -related equipment will be installed on the grounds of the former military airbase in 
Leipheim. Siemens Energy’s scope of supply includes turnkey construction and the O&M agreement 
as well as an SGT5 -4000F gas turbine, an SGen -2000P generator, and the SPPA -T3000 control 
system. The company will also provide a system for cooling the intake air and a system for injecting 
fully desalinated water into the gas turbine. These systems will ensure that the pl ant can generate 
up to 300 Megawatts in as little as 30 minutes, even in hot weather.  Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 4 
 
 
“Leipheim gas fired power plant is an important building -block in the energy transition of power 
generation” said Karim Amin, Executive Vice President Generation at Siem ens Energy. “We’re very 
pleased that the project development of Leipheim was successful and that we‘re able to help make 
the security of electricity supply in Germany more robust. An interesting aspect in this project is our 
digital solution for operating the facility entirely remotely, a real step towards unlocking the power 
of digitalization.”  
 
Siemens Energy successfully developed the project with Stadtwerke Ulm/Neu -Ulm and STEAG. The 
approval required for building and operating the plant in accordance w ith the German Federal 
Immission Control Act (BImSchG) has been obtained. In February 2021, the Gaskraftwerk Leipheim 
GmbH & Co. KG (GKL) special -purpose company was transferred to the LEAG energy provider, and 
GKL was awarded the contract to build the gas -fired power plant in Amprion’s Leipheim location 
during the bidding process.  
 
“By making this investment, we ’re taking responsibility for a secure power supply in southern 
Germany in our capacity as an experienced power plant operator,” said Hubertus Altm ann, LEAG 
Managing Board Member responsible for power plants. “Like the other two gas turbine power plants 
operated by LEAG in Thyrow and Ahrensfelde near Berlin, the Leipheim gas -fired power plant will 
also help stabilize the grid once it ’s completed. The se types of plants are urgently needed to ensure 
stable grid operation and ultimately the success of the energy transition.”  
 
Siemens Energy’s modern service center (ROMSC) has obtained the ISO certification 27001 and is 
able to operate power plants remote ly. This permits the plant to be operated locally by a two -person 
team during the day shift, while control and monitoring are handled from Erlangen. To enable the 
optimal collaboration with the ROMSC, the local maintenance team is equipped with cutting -edge 
connected worker technology. Outfitted with a helmet -mounted camera, microphone, and headset, 
the connected worker can communicate with the remote control center over a secure Internet 
connection. Modern software solutions that employ speech recognition,  artificial intelligence, and 
augmented reality functions provide additional support. This combination of on -site and remote 
specialists guarantees that the power plant remains available round the clock.  
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 4 
 
 
Drawing of the new gas -fired power plant in Leiphe im, southwestern Bavaria: As special grid -related equipment, it will 
make an important contribution to securing the power supply in southern Germany  
 
Contact for journalists  
Kerstin Schirmer  
Phone:  +49 (172) 2669588  
E-mail:  kerstin.schirmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
For further information on Power Generation , please see  https://bit.ly/3bGPHvs   
For further information on Power Plant Solutions , please see  https://bit.ly/3urKLlu   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  4 of 4 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus support ing the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Sie mens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 