Page 1/3 Press  
Houston,  November 14, 2019  
Siemens completes major overhaul project 
at power plant in Hungary  
Gas turbine rotor exchange allows for increased output and efficiency
Control system upgraded to latest version of SPPA -T3000
The Dunamenti Power Plant in Százhalombatta, Hungary, is the largest gas -fired 
power plant in the country with a capacity of 794 megawatts  (MW) , making it a major 
source of reliable electricity in Hungary . Recently, in collaboration with the customer 
and plant owner, MET Asset Managem ent AG , and within the scope of an overhaul 
project, Siemens Gas and Power replaced  the entire  rotor of the plant’s  SGT5 -
2000E gas turbine and  installed  a new, state -of-the-art SPPA -T3000 control  system .  
The rotor exchange  for the SGT5 -2000E  at the Dunamenti Power Plant led to an 
increase in output from 148 MW to 155 MW and increased the unit’s efficiency by 
approximately 0.8 percent . The turbine ha d already achieved  120,000 hours of 
operation and, with the new rotor, is now ready for the next 4 1,000 hours before the 
unit’s next scheduled outage services.  
“Thanks to the fast and direct communication and information flow within our team 
and the excellent cooperation with the customer, we were able to execute this major 
project in just 51 days, a short  time for such a big project,” said Vinod Philip, CEO of 
Siemens Service Power Generation . “We are delighted that we have delivered this 
state -of-the-art technology to Dunamenti, thereby contributing to an efficient and 
more reliable energy supply in Hunga ry.”  
“We’ve run several modernization and maintenance development projects in the last 
couple of years in order to secure sustainable operation at the  Dunamenti Power 
Plant ,” said Péter Horváth, CEO of Dunamenti Power Plant.  “As part of this agenda, 
the SGT5 -2000E gas turbine manufactured by Siemens received a complete 
Siemens AG  
Communications  
Head: Clarissa Haller  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Reference number:   PR201911125674EN   
Siemens AG  Press Release  
Reference number:  PR201911125674EN  Page 2/3 overhaul. Than ks to the maintenance, the SGT5- 2000E turbine now guarantees 
additional 41,000 hour s of operatio n for the pow er plant so we surely remain key 
energy suppli er of the domestic energy market. ”  
The new SGT5-2000E ga s turbine i s know n for it s reliable performance and was the 
perfect and economicall y sensible solutio n for this overhaul. The exchange of the 
complete rotor leads t o minimal downtime for the turbine since repairs be come less 
necessary an d more infrequent, which lead s to decreased outage durations. With 
the new rotor, the turbine at the Dunamenti Pow er Plant i s equipped with the latest 
Siemens technology featurin g optimal design and efficiency values. A special 
feature of the project i s the customized financing solution that allow s Dunamenti to 
react flexibly to the future market requirements. 
In addition, the complete instrumentation and control system was upgraded to 
Siemens cutting-edge SPPA-T3000 R8.2 control system.  The gas turbine 
modernization was the first of it s kind worldwide using new ET200 SPHA hardware, 
which ensures a significantly higher signal density, redundancy possibility, better 
sensor monitoring and includ es faster input/output desig n groups with the best 
signal/price values. Thi s innovative control system also provide s a soli d foundation 
for increased cyber security, system integrated full redundancy, compactn ess, and 
easy handling. Patches and updates can be easily implemented online, without any 
interruption of plant operation and monitoring. The engineering and installation were 
executed by Si emens Zrt.’s team of experienced Hungarian engineers , while also 
onboarding dual MsC students in order to widen their knowledge as well. The 
engineering and installation of the new solution was carried out and cabinet tests 
were also conducted at Siemens Hungary’s headquarters in order to help ensure 
fast reaction times and close collaboration with the customer.   
This press release and a photo are available at: https://sie.ag/2OblqJQ 
For further information on Si emens Gas and Power, please see 
www.siemens.com/energy 
For further information on the SGT5-2000E gas turbine, please see 
www.siemens.com/sgt5- 2000e 
Siemens AG  Press Release  
 
Reference number:  PR201911125674EN  Page 3/3 For further information on the SPPA -T3000 control system, please see  
www.siemens.com/sppa -t3000  
 
Social Media  
Siemens Energy on LinkedIn https://www.linkedin.com/showcase/siemens -energy/  
Siemens Energy on Twitter @Siemens_Energy  
 
Press Contact  
Amy Pempel  
+1 407 -408-1932  
amy.pempel@siemens.com  
 
Siemens Gas and Power (GP)  is a global pacesetter in energy, helping customers to meet the evolving demands 
of today’s industries and societies. GP comprises broad competencies across the entire energy value chain and 
offers a uniquely comprehensive portfolio for utilities, indepen dent power producers, transmission system operators, 
the oil and gas industry and other energy intensive industries. Products, solutions, systems and services address 
the extraction, processing and the transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat gen eration in central and 
distributed thermal power plants, power transmission and grid stability, as well as energy transition technologies 
including storage. With global headquarters in Houston in the U.S. and around 63,000 employees in over 80 
countries, S iemens Gas and Power has a presence across the globe and is a leading innovator for the energy 
systems of today and tomorrow, as it has been for more than 150 years.  
 
Siemens AG  (Berlin and Munich) is a global technology powerhouse that has stood for engineering excellence, 
innovation, quality, reliability and internationality for more than 170  years. The company is active around the globe, 
focusing on the areas of power generati on and distribution, intelligent infrastructure for buildings and distributed 
energy systems, and automation and digitalization in the process and manufacturing industries. Through the 
separately managed company Siemens Mobility, a leading supplier of  smar t mobility solutions for rail and road 
transport, Siemens is shaping the world market for passenger and freight services. Due to its majority stakes in the 
publicly listed companies Siemens Healthineers AG and Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, Siemens is al so a 
world -leading supplier of medical technology and digital healthcare services as well as environmentally friendly 
solutions for onshore and offshore wind power generation . In fiscal 201 9, which ended on September  30, 201 9, 
Siemens generated revenue of €86.8 billion and net income of € 5.6 billion. At the end of  September  2019, the 
company had around 3 85,000 employees worldwide. Further information is available on the Internet at 
www.siemens.com . 
. 
 
 
 