siemens-energy.com/vib3000
VIB3000 Machinery
Protection
Whitepaper
Whitepaper | VIB3000 Machinery Protection Meeting safety and availability targets without  
compromise. Combining these conflicting  
objectives into an advanced VIB3000 Machinery 
Protection solution.
A vibration-based VIB3000 Machinery Protection system is expected not only to protect 
the operating personnel and the plant from the machine, but also to protect the machine  
itself from damage. The avoidance of adverse effects on availability due to spurious trip -
ping is a further requirement.  
Up to now, it has only been possible to combine these two requirements to a limited extent. 
When safety is paramount, a machine is always shut down prophylactically when infor -
mation about the machine condition is incomplete, e.g. due to a fault in the monitoring 
system. For this reason, it has been necessary to accept certain compromises in availability 
in order to achieve greater safety for the personnel, the plant and the machine. 
VIB3000 Machinery Protection solution has managed to meet all three requirements  
simultaneously.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2
Whitepaper | VIB3000 Machinery Protection Contents  
 
01 System characteristics 4
01.1 State-of-the-art  
 instrumentation 4
01.2 Fail-safety due to  
 maximum fault tolerance 6
01.3 Field device with  
 integrated bus interface 9
02 Summary 10
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 3
Whitepaper | VIB3000 Machinery Protection VIB3000 Machinery Protection is a fully redundant and scalable 
solution for the  monitoring of vibration, expansion, position 
and various other operating parameters and is thus designed 
to provide extremely high fault tolerance. The integration into 
the I&C system is implemented via the PROFIBUS  
DP or the MODBUS interface, thus ensuring complete opera-
bility straight from the I&C. The data collected from field 
devices, such as sensors, supplied to the I&C constitute the 
basis for further decisions relating to operation of the moni -
tored machine. Fig. 1 shows the structure, design and features 
of the rack. These features are described in detail below. The analog values supplied by the sensors are digitized im-
mediately during measured value acquisition, offering real-time 
edge analytics. Both the dynamic (AC) and the static (DC) 
components of the original signal are available in digital form 
for further processing. Fig. 2 shows an example of the signal 
flow. Both signal components are further processed in a dig-
ital signal processor (DSP). In addition to signal adaptation 
and digital filtering, characteristic values are produced which 
can then be checked for compliance with specified limit values. 
Fully digital data processing means that the regular alignment 
procedures required in analog systems due to aging are no 
longer necessary.
Fig. 1 Design and features of the VIB3000 Machinery Protection systemReliable transmission  
of results
• Redundant PROFIBUS
• Safety relay
• Analog signals
Reliable processing  
of signal data
• Derivation of overall  
readings
• Limit comparison
• Logic gating
• Self-monitoringReliable sensing  
of signal data
• Vibration
• Pressure fluctuations
• Expansion and positions
• Speed/direction  
of rotation
• Differential pressure
• Analog signalsMachinery monitoring
Fig. 2 Design and features of the VIB3000 Machinery Protection system VIB30004 … 20 mA
High-Pass
(Filter)Low-Pass
(Filter)RMS
(Char. Value)∫
(Integr.)Sensor
Relay 1AmpliﬁerMeasuring
chain OK?Monitoring
(2 limits)High-Pass
(Filter)Low-Pass
(Filter)RMS
(Char. Value)∫
(Integr.)
2oo3 Limit 1
(Logic)
Relay 22oo3 Limit 2
(Logic)
Any Vibration-
and Pressure
sensors
Any process
valuesVoltage
adaptionIntegratorAnalogue /
Digital
conversion
24 Bit
102 kHz
per channelVibration:
RMS, Peak,
Peak – Peak
Smax, MaxXY
GAP, Speed,
Dir. of rotation,
Harmonics,
EccentricityMathematics
e.g.
MAX
  x2 + y2Limit comparison
4 limits
exceed or go 
below limitsLogic operation
.AND.
.OR.
2 out of 3
(2003)PROFIBUS
MODBUS
Relays
0/4 … 20 mAAny Usage
Filter: High-Pass, Low-Pass, KerbSystem boundary 
Analogue signal processing Analogue signal output Digital signal processing (DSP)PROFIBUS / MODBUSAD converterDA converter
  x2 + y2
(Mathm.)
4 … 20 mA
High-Pass
(Filter)Low-Pass
(Filter)RMS
(Char. Value)∫
(Integr.)Sensor
AmpliﬁerMeasuring
chain OK?Monitoring
(2 limits)High-Pass
(Filter)Low-Pass
(Filter)RMS
(Char. Value)∫
(Integr.)
AD converterDA converter
  x2 + y2
(Mathm.)
4 … 20 mA
High-Pass
(Filter)Low-Pass
(Filter)RMS
(Char. Value)∫
(Integr.)Sensor
AmpliﬁerMeasuring
chain OK?Monitoring
(2 limits)High-Pass
(Filter)Low-Pass
(Filter)RMS
(Char. Value)∫
(Integr.)
AD converterDA converter
  x2 + y2
(Mathm.)1.1 State-of-the-art instrumentation
Module 
redundancy
SPPA-T3000 visualizationMODBUSPROFUBUS /
redundancy
1. Standard Characterization
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 4
Less har dware
Less cabling
Lower cos t
Fewer faults+
=
Machiner y Prot ection combines
the I/O level and t he mac hiner y
protection sy stem
Classical mac hiner y
protection sy stemDecentr alized I /O level
(signal con version t o
PROFIBUS / MODBUS)
Whitepaper | VIB3000 Machinery Protection The rack comprises the VIB310 monitoring module and the 
VIB320/321 processing module. The processing modules  
supply voltage and current to the connected instrumentation 
chains and handle the acquisition and processing of the  
measured signals. These signals are forwarded to the VIB310 
monitoring module, which includes a central voting function 
in addition to limit value monitoring.
Communication with the higher-level automation system via 
PROFIBUS DP/MODBUS also takes place from here (VIB310 
module). The module can also provide analog and relay  
outputs in addition to binary inputs. 
A single processing module, VIB320/321, basically performs 
all the measurement tasks thanks to loadable applications. 
Even customer-specific applications can be developed on 
request. The small number of module options also minimizes 
the costs of spare parts management. 
With the 24-bit resolution of the VIB320/321 processing  
module instrumentation chains can be monitored faster and 
more accurately for proper operation based on an evaluation 
of the total signal comprising AC and DC components. In 
addition to short circuit and cable break, overloading of the 
instrumentation chain can be reliably detected. The excellent 
resolution of the AD converter also means that measuring 
range switchovers are not necessary. The system is capable 
of immediately tracking widely fluctuating measured values 
and overloading of the measuring electronics is excluded. 
A sampling rate of 102.4 kHz per measuring channel permits 
the acquisition of signals in the range 0 Hz to 50 kHz. This 
makes it possible to monitor anything from simple parametersin accordance with DIN/ISO through to diagnostic characteristic 
values which are a mandatory requirement for the effective 
monitoring of gearboxes and rolling-contact bearings, for 
example. The monitoring range is thus extended to include 
all the machines in the power plant. 
If monitoring is to be moved from the I&C to the field level or 
if VIB3000 Machinery Protection is to be used as a standalone 
solution, the existing programmable logic offers further  
advantages.  
All the limit value violations detected in the system can be 
routed to voters, where they can be combined with other 
events in VIB310. Logic operations, such as 2-out-of-3 opera-
tions, can be created in Boolean algebra using these voters. 
The result of the logic operation can be used to trigger other 
actions, such as switching off the machine by means of safety 
relays (onboard voting). 
The automation layer of the I&C receives the characteristic 
values calculated in the protection system and their statuses 
directly in the form of PROFIBUS DP/MODBUS messages. No 
additional modules are required for the integration of 
VIB3000 Machinery Protection in the I&C. Less hardware is 
required, not to mention fewer cables and subracks. This ulti-
mately reduces the amount of effort required for installation 
and commissioning, as well as the number of possible sources 
of error (Fig. 3). 
The amount of cabinet space required is also reduced due to 
the high channel density (10 channels per processing module) 
and the ability to install 6 processing modules in each 19 inch 
rack.
Fig. 3 Hardware structure
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 5
Whitepaper | VIB3000 Machinery Protection VIB3000 Machinery Protection systems are frequently only 
used for displaying measured values and for reporting abnormal 
values when these occur. If the idea of safety is the prime 
concern, however, machines are automatically shut down by 
protection systems of this kind. 
Even with redundantly configured conventional systems, 
certainty about the machine condition is already compromised 
when only one measuring channel fails, as there is no second 
signal for evaluation which can confirm the correctness of 
the measured values. And because no diagnostics are possible 
from the I&C in classical protection systems, the fault in the 
measuring circuit can only be found by means of local trouble-  
shooting procedures (at the machine, in the control cabinet 
or directly at the cabling). This is time-consuming and not 
cost-effective. Now if the second measuring circuit is also 
interrupted – due to a cable fault or failure of the acquisition 
electronics – the I&C prophylactically shuts the machine down, 
even if it is still fully operational. 
These problems are largely avoided by the high fault-tolerance 
capabilities of the new solution. This is achieved by insuring complete redundancy throughout the entire signal chain. The 
effect of the redundant structure is explained below with 
reference to Figs. 4-8. 
Fig. 4 shows the four theoretically possible faults which can 
affect machine availability in conventional systems (see left 
side of Fig. 4): 
• Failure of measuring channel 
• Cable fault between classical protection system and 
distributed I/O level  
Note: Distributed I/O level: Module for converting analog 
signals to PROFIBUS DP/MODBUS messages used in 
classical VIB3000 Machinery Protection systems 
• Failure of channel in distributed I/O level 
• Failure of cable to I&C 
The right side of Fig. 4 illustrates the principle of fault pre-
vention in VIB3000 Machinery Protection. Figs. 5-8 describe 
this principle of fault prevention in detail for each of the 
possible failures.
Fig. 4 The redundancy concept: Improving the system properties at the four potential weak points
Failure of measuring channel
If a fault occurs in a measuring channel of the protection 
system, the entire measuring circuit fails. A safe and unam-
biguous assessment of the machine condition is no longer 
possible for this reason. A sensor signal can be connected to 
two processing modules, i.e. in a redundant configuration. If 
a fault occurs in one measuring channel, the sensor can be supplied via the second unfaulted processing module and the 
sensor signal is forwarded to this processing module. Both 
sensor signals are still available for processing, thus permitting 
a correct and reliable assessment of the machine condition. 
System diagnostic functions available from the I&C also permit 
fast fault analysis detection.The VIB3000 approach: Improvement of system properties for the four weak points
Classical System
Faults that can occur
in conventional systemsCable faultRedundant
PROFIBUS / MODBUSPROFIBUS /
MODBUS2x blue
signals +
2x green
signals
per line
Operational
DefectiveClassical
conversion
Classical
protection
Measurement
signal4 … 20 mAEach signal via 2 converters
= module redundancyDetect and evaluate
Failure
Cable fault
FailureSiemens Energy Machinery Protection
Measures for avoiding errors
in Siemens Energy Machinery ProtectionDetect and evaluate
2 signal paths per sensorPCB instead of wiring
Signal ﬂow blue signal
Signal ﬂow green signal1.2 Fail-safety due to maximum fault tolerance 
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 6
Whitepaper | VIB3000 Machinery Protection Utmost safety plus highest availability with less wiring
Classical System
Faults causes the entire instrument loop to fail
= only one signal left = “blind in one eye“2x blue signals +
2x green signals
per linePROFIBUS /
MODBUS
Operational
DefectiveClassical
conversion
Classical
protection
Measurement
signal4 … 20 mADetect and evaluateSiemens Energy Machinery Protection
Both signals arrive at the
evaluation unit despite the faultDetect and evaluate
PCB instead of wiring Cable fault
Signal ﬂow blue signal
Signal ﬂow green signalUtmost safety plus highest availability with redundant measurement channels
Classical System
Faults causes the entire instrument loop to fail
= only one signal left = “blind in one eye“2x blue signals +
2x green signals
per linePROFIBUS /
MODBUS
Operational
DefectiveClassical
conversion
Classical
protection
Measurement
signal4 … 20 mADetect and evaluate
Failure of one
signal channelSiemens Energy Machinery Protection
Both signals arrive at the
evaluation unit despite the faultDetect and evaluate
2 signal paths per sensor
Signal ﬂow blue signal
Signal ﬂow green signal
Fig. 5 Extra safety thanks to redundancy of measuring channels
With classical systems, the entire measuring circuit also fails 
when this fault occurs (left side of Fig. 6). With this new 
solution, signals are routed via redundant printed conductors on the backplane. The fault described above is therefore  
excluded from the new system. Cable fault between measuring channel and distributed I/O level 
Fig. 6 Extra safety due to less wiring
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 7
Whitepaper | VIB3000 Machinery Protection Utmost safety plus highest availability with redundant converter modules
Classical System
Faults causes the entire instrument loop to fail
= only one signal left = “blind in one eye“2x blue signals +
2x green signals
per linePROFIBUS /
MODBUS
Operational
DefectiveClassical
conversion
Classical
protection
Measurement
signalDetect and evaluateSiemens Energy Machinery Protection
Both signals arrive at the
evaluation unit despite the faultDetect and evaluate
Each signal via 2 converters
= module redundancyFailure
4 … 20 mA
Signal ﬂow blue signal
Signal ﬂow green signal
Utmost safety plus highest availability with redundant PROFIBUS/MODBUS connection
Classical System
Faults causes the entire instrument loop to fail
= only one signal left = “blind in one eye“PROFIBUS /
MODBUS
Operational
DefectiveClassical
conversion
Classical
protection
Measurement
signalDetect and evaluateSiemens Energy Machinery Protection
Both signals arrive at the
evaluation unit despite the faultDetect and evaluate
Cable faultRedundant
PROFIBUS / MODBUS
4 … 20 mA
Signal ﬂow blue signal
Signal ﬂow green signalThe new solution also offers module redundancy for the 
converter, which means that both signals can be processed 
If a cable between the converter and the automation system 
fails, the entire measuring circuit fails in classical systems. in both converters and remain available for evaluation in the 
I&C even in the event of failure of a converter. 
Therefore only one signal is available for evaluation (Fig. 8 
on the left). Fault or failure of converter (distributed I/O level) or fault between converter and I&C due to failure of cable 
Fig. 7 Extra safety thanks to redundant converter modules
Fig. 8 Extra safety through redundant PROFIBUS DP/MODBUS connection
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 8
Integration Conﬁguration DiagnosisOperator control
and monitoring
Process interfaceSPPA-T3000
application serverSPPA-T3000
automation server
Machinery ProtectionEthernet
PROFIBUS DP
Whitepaper | VIB3000 Machinery Protection Thanks to its redundant PROFIBUS DP/MODBUS connections, 
the new system also forwards both signals to the I&C’s auto-
mation server (Fig. 8 on the left) in the event of failure of one bus. Its high fault-tolerance capabilities avoid prophylactic shut-
downs of the machine due to deficient information, thus 
contributing to an increase in availability. 
Fig. 9 illustrates the architecture of the integration of VIB3000 
Machinery Protection in Siemens Energy I&C systems SPPA-  
T3000 and SIMATIC PCS 7 via PROFIBUS DP/MODBUS. This 
integration means that all information and messages are 
available in the I&C and are automatically archived. Parame-
terization (configuration) and control of the protection system 
is also possible directly from the I&C.System faults can be located and diagnosed from here as well. 
This bus concept also permits the creation of distributed 
systems by distributing main and auxiliary equipment units 
to different vibration monitoring racks.1.3 Field device with integrated bus interface Advantages: Operation and fault analysis from the I&C Remote support
Fig. 9  Integration into the I&C permits direct operation (example: SPPA-T3000 with PROFIBUS DP)
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 9
Whitepaper | VIB3000 Machinery Protection So far, compromises in availability were always involved when 
looking at vibration-based VIB3000 Machinery Protection  
systems. In favor of achieving greater safety for the personnel, 
plant and machine, prophylactic shutdowns had to be accept-
ed. The fully redundant solution VIB3000 Machinery Protection 
combines safety and availability for the first time. State-of-
the-art measuring technology and a high level of fail-safety 
due to maximum fault tolerance achieve not only safety for personnel and machine. It also reaches the higher level of 
safety from spurious tripping and therefore increases avail-
ability.
VIB3000 Machinery Protection is a solution for every applica -
tion: it is capable of complete integration into Siemens  
Energy I&C, it can be easily connected to I&C systems from 
other suppliers and it can also be used as a stand-alone system.2. Summary
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 10
Published by and copyright © 2021
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany  
siemens-energy.com/vib3000
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. 
KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.