The Plant
The refinery Heide GmbH processes raw oil into a wide 
range of products at its base in Hemmingstedt. This is 
possible due to the very high level of procedural complexity 
compared to other refineries, which also allows a variation 
in the production volume of the different end products. In 
addition to classic raw oil products such as fuels and bitu-
men, the refinery Heide also produces a wide range of 
pre-products for the plastic and chemicals industries. Also, 
refinery Heide is preparing for the future, planning the 
installation of an infrastructure for large-scale hydrogen 
production at their site.
The Task
Until now, Heide GmbH has been using an older machinery 
protection system from a competitor at different production 
sites. The existing system needs to be replaced step
by step due to  the continuously running production. For now 
and in the future Heide sees good opportunities for possible 
fields of application of the modular and flexible VIB3000 
vibration protection system from Siemens Energy. This is
easily expandable to a versatile and comprehensive analysis 
system.
Reﬁnery
Heide
The Solution
The refinery Heide decided to gradually replace its existing 
machine protection systems with VIB3000 from Siemens 
Energy. One gas turbine and several screw compressors have 
already been converted to the VIB3000 machinery protection 
system, and further assets will follow .
A main reason for this decision was the fact that VIB3000 can 
be connected to all sensors installed in the plants with the 
existing cabling, without any modification. Furthermore, the 
extensive system redundancies, the very simply designed 
spare parts concept and the SIL capability of the system 
convinced the customer. Another advantage is the possibility 
to expand the system with comprehensive analysis functions 
(CM500 software plus additional module).Refinery Heide,  
Germany
Increased security and profitability  
thanks to a machinery protection systemsiemens-energy.com/VIB3000
Reference l  Refinery Heide, Germany“We need and expect a proven 
high-availability machine protec-
tion system to replace our old  
existing systems. VIB3000 fully 
meets our technical require-
ments, is economically applicable 
and future-proof.”  
 
Fynn Carstensen,  
I&C Engineer, Southern Area, Refinery Heide GmbHThe Result
• Avoidance of expensive damage to production plants 
through permanent monitoring and protective shut-
down when required
• High plant availability due to freely adjustable interven-
tion parameters
• Easy upgrade of existing hardware to a comprehensive 
vibration analysis system, if required
Published by and copyright © 2022
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:  
www.siemens-energy.com/VIB3000
© Siemens Energy, 2022
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract. 
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. 
KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners
© 2022 Siemens Energy Seite 2