Schluchseewerk AG
Enhanced safety and availability
due to condition monitoring system
siemens -energy.com/cm500
The Task
Since foundation, Schluchseewerk AG has 
built and operated pumped storage hydro 
power plants in the southern Black Forest. 
They combine skills to deliver electricity in 
seconds when it is needed, store excess 
power and rebuild collapsed power grids. 
To maintain a high -quality standard, 
Schluchseewerk AG decided to adapt their 
hardware to the modern VIB3000 vibration 
monitoring system.
Our Solution
Schluchseewerk AGconsists of five sites in 
total. Every site operates four turbosets
consisting of turbine, generator and storage 
pump and is protected by a VIB3000 system. 
To secure daily operations on the basis of
state -of-the-art technology systems, they 
decided to exchange their current hardware 
system. The main objective of the VIB3000 
condition monitoring system is to fulfill 
safety and availability targets by protecting 
the machine and the environment from the 
consequences of machine failure.The Plant
The Schluchseewerk AGis one of the biggest operators for pumped storage hydroelectric power stations located in the Southern Black 
Forest in Baden -Wuerttemberg, Germany. They work towards stabilization of the power grid and a reliable energy supply since 1928 .
The hardware components of a VIB3000 
vibration monitoring system are built 
modular. In case of "diagnostic monitoring" 
detected limit violations lead to event -driven 
data storage and corresponding status 
logging. This data represent the basis of 
vibration diagnostic monitoring and 
subsequent analysis with the CM500 
diagnostic software, which detects 
abnormal machine behavior at the earliest 
possible time and enables optimized 
maintenance planning. 
It provides information about possible 
mechanical causes of problems related to 
the condition of the system. Our customer's 
wish was to modernize the integrated 
hardware and replace outdated components 
with new ones. The vibration diagnostic of 
all machine sets has been realized by central 
visualization PCs.
Your Benefits
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG @ Siemens Energy, 2021▪Increased availability by using 
a reliable state of -the-art 
system
▪Increased flexibility due to 
one platform solution for 
operation and control of 
several components 
▪Modular system set -up and 
user -friendly handling
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn -Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
For more information, please contact
Email: diagnostic -services.energy@siemens -energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. 
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose 
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.FOTO
Power Plant Wehr , generator (4 x 300 MVA)
For many years, the VIB3000 has been used by Schluchseewerk AG as a reliable 
vibration diagnostic system. The CM500 software allows us to provide effective, user -
friendly vibration diagnostics for our machine sets. 
The vibration characteristics can be viewed flexibly in any period of time and 
correlated with the characteristic operating modes of the pumped storage devices 
depending on a wide variety of process variables . 
Roland Sinsig, Mechanical Engineer, Asset Management, Schluchseewerk AG
Power Plant Säckingen , generator (4 x 118 MVA)
““