siemens-energy.com/diagnostic-monitoring-protection
Vibration 
monitoring
in synchronous 
condensers
Prevent unexpected failures and 
optimize maintenance activities
The challenge
The decreasing fossil power generation and increasing 
renewables pose challenges to grid stability, including 
reduced shortcircuit power capacity, limited grid capacity, 
and difficult control of the power factor. In the worst case, it 
can even lead to a blackout. Our synchronous condenser 
solution uses a generator to supply the necessary inertia
with its rotating mass while also providing or absorbing 
reactive power as well as short circuit. For providing more 
inertia a flywheel can directly couple to the generator rotor. 
Due to the changes in the entire grid landscape with long 
transmission lines and the integration of converter-based 
solutions such HVDC, subsynchronous torsional shaft vibra-
tions can be excited by fast acting controls of HVDC convert-
er stations, by capacitive line compensation or by active 
control systems.
The associated phenomena are referred to as:
• Subsynchronous torsional interactions (SSTI),
caused by long series compensated transmission lines, 
that may cause electrical instability at asubsynchronous 
frequency. Excessive shaft vibrations may occur in case 
the excitation frequencies correspond to a natural tor-
sional frequency of theshaft assembly.
• Subsynchronous resonance (SSR),
caused by the control system of high-voltage direct
current (HVDC) system, such that the converter has an 
impact on the electrical damping of the connected 
synchronous generator system.• Subsynchronous control interaction (SSCI),   
caused by grid power converter control systems or other 
control elements, such as power system stabilizers.  
The overall system damping can also become negative.T
he solution
You can mitigate the potential for damaging vibration 
problems with the help of the Omnivise CM500  solution
as a part of SSR-Monitoring System , a dedicated condition 
monitoring system focused on torsional vibration analysis. 
Vibration monitoring is a proven strategy for early identifi-
cation of potential emerging problems. Maintenance 
measures can be planned in time, unplanned shutdowns
can be avoided, repair shutdowns can be shortened, so that 
asset availability can be increased.
The Omnivise CM500  solution is designed to perform 
continuous monitoring, archiving of data and analysis of 
plant machinery, while monitoring for excessive vibration 
that is trending towards plant pre-set limits. It also allows 
interactive and simultaneous data displays to help assess 
machine health.
The system consists of touchless torque sensors applied 
along the shaft line and a data acquisition system. In this 
setup, monitoring features are available only.
© 202 5, Siemens Energy Page 2Vibration monitoring in synchronous condensers
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For more information, please visit our website: 
siemens-energy.com/diagnostic-monitoring-protection
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described,
or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products.
The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could 
violate the rights of the owners.In the data acquisition system, the measuring signals are 
filtered for defined frequency bands corresponding to the 
torsional natural frequencies using band pass filters. For 
each frequency band, the determined amplitude trend value 
is transferred to the distributed control system (DCS) to be 
available on the HMI. Optionally, protection via the control 
system can be realized.
Among others, the vibration analysis system has the 
following analysis features:
• Trends
• Time wave form
• FFT (Fast Fourier Transformation)
• Spectrum cascade
• Transient recorder (high resolution vibration data)
If vibrations are elevated a high-resolution data logging is 
initiated. The vibration monitoring system allows an offline 
analysis of the shaft torsional vibrations in case elevated 
vibrations have been detected.  This allows a more de -
tailed analysis of the shaft vibration evaluating SSR, 
SSTI or any other torsional event.
In the control system actual data values are shown and 
trends can be also shown. The data are monitored for the 
transgression of warning and alarm values and in such a 
case, comments on annunciation are shown.
Optionally, units can be tripped automatically in case alarm /  
trip values are exceeded. Within the VIB3000 system, the 
VIB330 analysis module, forms the interface between 
machinery protection and diagnostic monitoring. The 
analysis of the data obtained from the monitored machin -
ery is based on previously configured algorithms.Your benefits
Condition monitoring of synchronous condensers  can: 
• Detect previously unidentified external
excitations
• Enable data-driven component inspections
based on vibration history (i.e. torsional)
• Evaluate rotor lifetime impact  in cooperation 
with component suppliers through vibration data
analysis
• Provide insights  into grid-induced shaft excitations 
• Support informed maintenance planning and
decision-making  for transmission system operators 
through detailed event analysisTransformer Flywheel Synchronous condenserBe
aring vibrationP
hase reference 
signal (Keyphasor)Shaft 
vibrationHigh frequency analog 
signals: AC-Signals
Analog-to-digital signal conversion
using  VIB321 Processing ModuleCalcu
lation of characteristic values
using VIB330 analysis module ArchiveOmnivise VIB3000 
machinery analysisT
ools for vibration analysis
Data archiving and visualization throughOmnivise CM500 condition 
monitoring software
Condition   monitoring  in synchronous  condensers –  vibrations  measurement