The Challenge
Due to the increased demand of renewable energy, opera -
tors of hydro power plants are facing a major change. While 
hydro power plants were designed for continuous base load 
operation, they now need to be prepared for partial load 
operation. 
New hydro power plants are exposed to numerous stops and 
starts, and availability on demand is particularly important. 
Due to the changing operating conditions hydro turbines 
and generators are faced by extraordinary stress which can 
cause potential failure.   
For safe operations preventive maintenance is necessary, 
and condition monitoring and vibration are key to mitigate 
the risk of unplanned outages.
The Solution
Siemens Energy machinery protection solutions allow 
insights into asset’s health. The solutions protect, forecast 
and increase the asset availability. They provide hydro power 
plants with the capability to deliver electricity rapidly when 
it is needed, store excess power and reestablish energization 
to  grid. VIB3000 & CM500  support reliable power genera -
tion for hydro power plants.• Early warnings  before protection limits
are reached
• Cost reduction  thanks to comprehensive monitoring
& analysis of all operating modes
• User-friendly  vibration diagnostics for machine sets
• Modular system set-up  with low spare part
complexityYour Benefits
VIB3000 & CM500  
for Hydro Power Plants
Our Condition Monitoring System delivers  
enhanced safety and availabilitysiemens-energy.com/VIB3000
VIB3000 & CM500 for Hydro Power PlantsPublished by and copyright © 2022
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:  
www.siemens-energy.com/VIB3000
© Siemens Energy, 2022
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract. 
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. 
KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the ownersVIB3000 Machinery Protection
Safe operation and high availability are crucial for the 
economic success of a technical asset. In order to maintain 
its safety and availability it is necessary to continuously 
obtain and assess information on a machine’s current 
condition. The VIB Machinery Protection System was care-
fully designed to offer security for the machine and its 
environment from the consequences of machine failure and 
security against uneventful tripping and thus supporting 
maximum availability.
What differentiates VIB3000 from competitor systems is the 
variety of available redundancy options. Depending on  
customers’ redundancy philosophy and needs, VIB3000 can  
be configured to use redundant sensors, redundant signal  
processing, redundant voting and redundant connections to 
the control system. Apart from redundancy, VIB3000 also 
supports SIL-1 (Safety Integrity Level 1) approved by German 
TÜV signal processing and control system communication.
CM500 Condition Monitoring
The optional VIB330 Analysis Module extends VIB3000 
Machinery Protection to become a full-blown vibration 
diagnostic system. VIB330 pre-processes vibration samples 
into vibration indicators, which are the basis for the CM500 
software. The VIB330 also handles  the diagnostic monitor -
ing of the machine by continuously comparing current 
characteristics to reference values derived earlier. CM500’s 
online condition monitoring features and vibration analysis 
toolkit have matured for more than two decades.  With CM500 online condition monitoring, once alerted the 
severity of a problem can be actively monitored, and the 
operator can for example account for the problem by avoid-
ing critical operation modes. The condition monitoring 
system enables maintenance engineers to analyze the ma-
chine’s condition and thus generate valuable information for 
decision making and overhaul preparation. CM500 Condition 
Monitoring enhances machine availability, makes plant 
availability more predictable and cuts maintenance costs.• Uses latest technologies and is at the cutting edge  
in vibration instrumentation
• Minimizes outages caused by faults within the pro-
tection system and provides the full information
• Reduces the hardware, cabling, and engineering 
effort and simplifies spare part stocking
• Can be operated directly from the control room  
and permits a system status analysis• Maximum possible measurement accuracy through 
rotor-triggered data acquisition 
• Maximum sensitivity to changes, using up to 1,000 
automatically derived limit values per vibration  
measuring point (machine learning) 
• Comprehensive condition monitoring for current and  
historic machine health at constant and transient 
operation 
• Unique archiving concept with event-oriented   
storage of complete data sets and tools for  
automated data interpretation 
• Numerous additional data analysis functions includ-
ing statistical assessments or transient recorder 
functionality
Notable FeaturesNotable Features
Today, CM500’s sophisticated high-sensitivity diagnostic 
monitoring features and vibration analysis package com-
prises expert tools for all types of rotating equipment, 
from turbo sets to balance-of-plant machinery.
© 2022 Siemens Energy Seite 2