Background
Because there’s more and more focus on decarbonization 
and generating clean energy, it’s important for plant opera-
tors to understand their emission profile by monitoring and 
recording data. It’s typically required for plants to provide 
emissions data from its operating equipment to local 
authorities in order to demonstrate compliance with the 
relevant regulations.
There are many different options for emission monitoring, 
from a temporary arrangement involving an expert bringing 
instrumentation equipment to the plant to installing a 
permanent measurement system. Given the requirement to 
frequently record and provide emission information, many 
operators are looking at permanent, cost-effective solutions.  
 
 
There are two main options for a permanent solution:
1. Physical version: CEMS  
(continuous emissions monitoring system).  
A CEMS product employs physical sensors that 
evaluate gas extracted from the exhaust.  
The system uses calibration gases, which re- 
quire continual maintenance to work effectively.  
  
2. Digital version: PEMS  
(predictive emissions monitoring system).  
The PEMS product is a digital solution that 
takes engine operating data and feeds it 
through a unique set of algorithms to deter -
mine the engine’s emissions signature.Product overview
• Prediction of exhaust emissions using internal system 
engine parameters (no extra hardware is needed on- site).
• The Siemens Energy PEMS uses unique knowledge of the 
gas turbine product to create an algorithm that produces 
an accurate emissions signature.
• PEMS evaluates emissions in accordance with international 
standards like EPA 40 CFR/EU LCP/MC P, and CEN TS 17198.Predictive Emissions
Monitoring System
(PEMS)
Providing an overview of your  
equipment to review and reduce emissions
siemens-energy.com
Measure Calculate ReportPredictive emissions monitoring system
PEMS allows you to 
accurately calculate 
the emissions of your 
equipment
Page 1 © 2024 Siemens Energy
Fleet application
• Customers who operate our gas turbines.
• Customers and operators in the power generation and 
oil and gas industries who want to monitor and under -
stand their emissions footprint (NOx, CO, and CO2).
• Customers and operators who want more insight into 
their emissions levels so they can make more informed  
decisions about plant operations, with the potential to 
modify their operating profile to reduce emissions and 
fuel and maintenance costs.
• Customers who are looking for a lower-cost alternative 
to a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS), 
which requires significant capital expenditures (CAPEX)
and operating expenses (OPEX).
Benefits
Emissions calculations with no additional equip-
ment or requirements on-site.
Significant reduction in operational and mainte-
nance costs compared to a dedicated analyzer- 
based emissions measurement system (CEMS).
Confidence in the accuracy of the PEMS model 
thanks to OEM thermodynamic knowledge of the 
engine as well as several years of reliable factory 
test and field operating data.
Combined lower CAPEX and OPEX (estimated 50 
to 80 percent) compared to CEMS over a compa-
rable lifecycle: eliminates the need to hire skilled 
operators and buy expensive calibration test gases.
Our PEMS solution can work with highly contami-
nated flue gases and environmental conditions, 
because it’s a digitalized solution; there’s also no 
costly SIL/ATEX compliance.
PEMS can also be used by the customer and by 
Siemens Energy for more rapid identification of 
performance issues using PEMS data for fault 
location.
Page 2 © 2024 Siemens EnergySiemens Energy l Predictive emissions monitoring system (PEMS)
PEMS offers a  
significant reduction 
in operational and 
maintenance costs. 
• More than eight successful implementations worldwide 
for dry low emission (DLE) and non-DLE combustors.  
• Proven technologies for A35, LM2500, SGT-400 (13 MW), 
SGT-600, 700, 750 and 800 are commercially available.  
• All other frames are available upon customer request for 
first-time applications.Support services and implementation
Data is received via remote connection, thanks to 
algorithms embedded in our well-known cloud 
platforms STA-RMS and Omnivise.  
 
PEMS is integrated in our MyHealth and Omnivise 
digital front-end platforms, so it can send data 
and the ability to analyze it straight to your 
chosen device.
The algorithm can be embedded in the main 
turbine control system software, including PCS7, 
Allen-Bradley™, and Omnivise T3000.
Emissions data is displayed in high resolution in 
real time directly on the human-machine inter -
face (HMI); minor activities on-site are required.
Cloud-based  
solution
Embedded  
control  
solution
More information
For more information about PEMS, 
please scan the QR code or visit our 
website.Reference projects and applications
Page 3 © 2024 Siemens Energy
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Gas Services  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy Inc.  
Gas Services  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
If you require further information in respect of the above please  
contact your Siemens Energy designated representative.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only 
contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may not 
always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modifica-
tion in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon 
in the concluded contract.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens 
Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third par -
ties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Page 4 © 2024 Siemens EnergySiemens Energy l Predictive emissions monitoring system (PEMS)