siemens.com/chpMake the most  
of fuel
Combined Heat and Power  
portfolioPublished by  
Siemens AG 2016  
Power and Gas Division 
Freyeslebenstrasse 1  
91058 Erlangen, GermanyFor more information, please contact  
our Customer Support Center.Phone: +49 180 524 70 00  
Fax: +49 180 524 24 71  
(Charges depending on provider)  
E-mail: support.energy@siemens.comArticle-No. PGCG-B10005-00-7600  Printed in GermanyDispo 34808  
TIB BR 04170.25Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or perfor -
mance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are ex-pressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
Guascor® is a registered trademark of Grupo Guascor S.L and 
NEM is a registered mark of NEM Energy B.V. 
Any unauthorized use is prohibited.All other designations in this document may represent 
trademarks whose use by third parties for their own purposes may violate the proprietary rights of the owner.
Add more value  
to your business
Widely available electricity and heat are what make our modern 
industrial civilization possible. Today, more than ever before, the challenges posed by climate change, environmental protection laws, and fluctuating prices mean that future-oriented businesses must strive for energy efficiency. Not only by investing in re-newables, insulating their buildings, and improving industrial processes, but also by exploring the advantages of Combined Heat and Power (CHP). 
Sustainability
It makes sense to invest in sustainable tech-nology. Not only to significantly minimize CO₂ emissions and comply with regulations, but also to make the most of the resources at hand. CHP plants feature cutting edge 
com bustion technologies and may even 
allow you to switch to a lower-carbon fuel.
Turnover
CHP plants fit the bill, offering fuel savings of up to 40 percent. By investing in CHP, you can lower your energy costs – and possibly generate additional income by exporting electricity to the grid.Efficiency
Putting resources to the best possible use is 
crucial, but most plants only utilize a fraction 
of their fuel’s energy. CHP, also known as co generation, is a very efficient, established 
technology for simultaneous output of usable heat and power.
Availability
To remain successful, each industry needs 
stable production processes and, ideally, zero downtime. Energy reserves must be readily available, and reliable power supply is essential. In modern CHP designs, redundant 
layouts and remote diagnosis ensure that 
your productivity remains consistently high.
Are you ready to give your business a boost?With a comprehensive portfolio of gas and steam turbines and extensive plant 
construction expertise, Siemens is a leading player in the CHP market, and field-
proven in thousands of plants worldwide. Our references span from industrial applications to utilities. 
2 3Combined Heat and Power | Make the most of fuel
Each industry needs energy – but each one is unique. So it’s not 
enough to develop a “one size fits all” approach or a standard CHP. Take advantage of our 130 years of experience – together, we will identify and develop the ideal solution for your specific business case.A wide range of  
applications
When selecting and designing a CHP system, 
the first questions to answer are:
• What fuel(s) are available?
• Which of these is the most economical 
choice?
• How much flexibility is required?
Electric power industry  
(power producers)
Munici pality Independent 
power  
producersIndustrial power generation (power users)
 Textile Sugar and 
ethanolFood and  
beverage  Pulp and  
paper Chemicals and 
pharma­
ceuticals Mining and 
minerals,  
cementMetals, 
ceramics and 
glass
Oil and gas 
industry  Manu facturing 
industries Building 
complexes and 
infrastructure
Utility
Heat supply without power 
generationHeat storage enables supplying the heating system even when  
the power generation equipment is shut down.High-quality fuel  or low-cost fuel?
High-quality fuelIf gas or oil is your fuel of choice, a high efficiency layout featuring a gas turbine and a heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) may be the best solution.
Gas turbine
Process steam
Low temperature process steam / heating steamGas or oil  
process fuelsWood or waste
HRSGBoilerFuel
Steam turbine
Condenser StorageIndependent power  and heat production?
Exhaust Process steam Heating steam Waste steamProcess steam  
(high temperature)If process steam with high tem-peratures (>300 °C) is called for, the steam may be extracted directly from the steam generator.
Highest operational flexibilityA condenser enables expansion of the steam in the steam turbine even when no process or heating steam is required.Heating or process steam  
(low temperature)If the primary goal is heating or you need low temperature steam for your process, it’s recommended that the steam in a steam turbine is expanded. This maximizes the electrical efficiency of the plant.Low-cost fuelIf you prefer a less cost-intensive fuel (e.g. wood, waste), a direct fired boiler can be combined with a downstream steam turbine.
Heating steam or process steam?Let’s talk! Together, we’ll find the 
solution best suited to your needs.
4Make the most of fuel | Combined Heat and Power
5Combined Heat and Power | Make the most of fuel
A competitive edge in textiles  
Grupo Kaltex, Mexico 
Textile manufacturing is a very com-
petitive market. To cut electricity costs 
and improve process quality, Kaltex switched from a two-phase process 
(power from the public utility grid, 
steam from gas-fired boilers) to a CHP solution, combining an SGT-750 gas 
turbine with an electrical generator 
and a heat recovery steam generator (HRSG). The results: reliability up, costs down, market advantages gained.
Fuel: natural gas  
Live steam: 242 °C and 17.5 bar  
Maximum heat output: 40 MWth  
Maximum power output: 35 MWel
Putting wood chips to good use  
Simmering, Austria
The Simmering biomass power plant is 
particularly eco-friendly – it burns 
waste produced when cultivating 
forests. And cutting-edge combustion technology saves close to 144,000 tons of CO₂ each year. Thanks to CHP, the 
plant makes optimum use of the wood 
chips, providing about 41,000 Vien-nese households with power and 
17,000 households with district heat. 
Fuel: biomass (wood chips)  
Live steam: 520 °C and 120 bar  
Maximum heat output: 35 MWth 
Maximum power output: 24.5 MWel
There’s more than one  
proof of real competence
Textile
Utility
6 7Combined Heat and Power | Make the most of fuel
A record-breaking powerhouse  
Stadtwerke Düsseldorf, Germany 
The powerful heart of this power plant 
is an SGT5-8000H gas turbine. Togeth-er with the downstream steam turbine  
– an SST5-5000 model – it generates603.8 MW of electrical power. To supplythe city of Düsseldorf with districtheating, steam is extracted from thelow-pressure section: up to 300 MWthin CCGT operation.
Fuel: natural gas  
Live steam: 600 °C and 175 bar  
Maximum heat output: 300 MWth  
Maximum power output: 604 MWel 
(in current mode) CHP expertise in New York City  
Riverbay Co-op City, USA
At Co-op City, the world’s largest 
cooperative housing development, two SGT- 400 gas turbines and one SST-300 steam turbine produce around 40 MW of electricity, up to 16 MW of which can be exported to the grid to increase revenue. Steam generated by exhaust heat keeps residents warm in winter and – via absorption chillers – cool in summer, too.
Fuel: natural gas  
Live steam: 399 °C and 59 bar  
Maximum heat output: 19 MWth  
Maximum power output: 40 MWel 
Wise use of precious resources  
Amata B.Grimm, ThailandNatural gas reserves power a large 
portion of the Thai economy. But  
these resources are limited, so making the most of fuel is essential. With two com
 bined cy
cle cogeneration plants, 
each featuring a pair of Siemens SGT-800 gas turbines and one SST-400 steam turbine, Amata B.Grimm provides highly efficient power and steam to the local industrial area.
Fuel: natural gas  
Live steam: 525 °C and 76 bar  
Maximum power output: 2 x 166 MWel 
Holder of three world records,  
the “Fortuna” CCGT plant boasts  61.5 percent electrical efficiency, up to 300 MWth from a single unit, and 85 percent efficiency overall. This trigeneration scheme provides power, heat, and air-conditioning to nearly 60,000 people in the city’s northern borough.
Building 
complexes and infrastructure Munici  pality 
Manufacturing industries 
Efficient turbines for productive pulp
Klabin, Brazil
Two turbines supply electricity and 
process steam to a factory producing  
1.5 million metric tons of pulp annually. The SST 800 is one of the largest steam turbines used in the pulp and paper industry worldwide. Approximately 150 MW of electricity, or more than half of the total of 270 MW produced, is fed into the national power grid.
Fuel: wood, biomass  
Live steam: 498 °C and 100 bar  
Extraction steam pressure: 10 bar / 145 psi 
Exhaust steam pressure: 5.4 bar / 78.3 psi  
Maximum power output: 190 MWel 
Pulp and  
paper Copyright: Unidade Puma
8Make the most of fuel | Combined Heat and Power
9Combined Heat and Power | Make the most of fuel
The Siemens CHP portfolio is an invitation to our customers to 
choose the most suitable solutions and components and, if  applicable, integrate them in existing systems. Our experts are happy to support you and your project as extensively as you wish. From consultation, to plant design, to a full turnkey solution.
Power plants
As one of the world’s leading OEM-EPC providers, Siemens has more than 130 years of experience in constructing turnkey power plants. Our tailor-made, integrated solutions ensure maximum compatibility of all compo-nents and hence extremely high efficiency levels and low emissions. Because time is money, we worked towards even faster im
 ple
 mentation. The highest environmental 
and health and safety standards are an integral part of our projects. Gas turbines
With our gas turb ines’ capacities r anging 
from 4 to 450 MW, w e can provide appro pri-
ately sized models for al l operational applica-
tions. Whether i t is about candy production 
or city lighting – our turbines’ su perior 
efficiency, fuel  and operational flexibility, as 
well as environme ntal compatibility, e nsure 
the best performa nce in a vast range  of 
contexts. 
Steam turbines
By setting indust rial standards from the 
beginning, Sieme ns has established itself  
as a global leader  with over 20,000 steam 
turbines delivered  across the world . Their 
operational flex ibility makes them a n ideal 
choice for cogen eration.Our products set  
standards worldwide
10 11Combined Heat and Power | Make the most of fuel
Engine-based solutions
CHP systems don’t need to be full-sized industrial giants. Siemens provides fully packaged CHP systems (also containerized), 
designed around the highly efficient Siemens 
engines. Individual CHP engine systems 
range from 300 kWe to 2,000 kWe. Any gas-  
fueled Guascor® engine can be specially 
configured for applications involving heat recovery: greenhouse farming, district heating, hospitals, data centers, municipal facilities, sewage plants, and more.
Generators
Siemens offers a comprehensive portfolio of 
generators for the 25 to 2,235 MVA power 
range. They achieve efficiency levels of up 
to 99 percent. Generators of our SGen series are operating around the globe with an installed fleet of more than 2,500 units. 
Heat recovery steam generator (HRSG)  
and boilers
NEM Energy is a globally leading supplier of 
custom-made solutions in the field of heat recovery steam generators, industrial and utility boilers, and related equipment. NEM’s HRSGs take up the largest portion of the company’s activities. It has powered over eight hundred steam generators on all con - 
tinents for many different industries and a wide variety of applications. NEM also deliv -
ers direct fired boilers, process boilers, and components for power plants like diverters and dampers, as well as engineering and maintenance services.Instrumentation, Controls and ElectricalThe Siemens Power & Process Automation (SPPA) family has been designed to maxi-mize the potential of individual plants as 
well as entire fleets. We cover the full spec-
trum of CHP plant instrumentation, controls, 
electrical engineering, and IT solutions. 
SPPA installations have been supplied to more than 2,700 plant facilities worldwide, contributing immensely to optimizing operational processes.
Services  
Thanks to our full-service portfolio, we have 
all the necessary in-house capabilities to make your cogeneration project a success. 
Our tailor-made services help increase the 
reliability, availability, and profitability of your assets. Maintenance solutions are geared towards increasing efficiency and ensuring your technical equipment remains 
state-of-the-art. Using the latest in digital 
tools, we are able to transfer our deep, tech-nology-rich knowledge base to increase your competitiveness. And remote monitoring 
centers staffed by experts offer immediate 
support 24 hours a day.
12Make the most of fuel | Combined Heat and Power
13
Tailored financial solutions 
to drive business models of the future
The best foundation for 
a powerful business?
A strong partnership
Financing
Major plant upgrades or improvements need to be supported by secure financing and reliable risk management. Siemens Financial Services provides years of experience in the assessment of financial viability, as well as 
in providing equity and debt capital. The 
close cooperation with other Siemens units enables reliable long-term planning and opens up synergies most other companies cannot provide.• Sovereign risk insurance
• Senior loans: construction, term, and 
revolving
• Financial advisory
• Junior capital products: subordinated loans, holding company loans, mezzanine debt
• Equity investments (preferred and common)
• Project development
For over 130 years, we have been helping companies make the most of fuel 
– in all countries and for the most varied requirements. Whatever your chal-
lenge is, we are with you from the start, focusing on your overall business 
success by increasing turnover, reducing costs, and ensuring reliability. 
Whether you require a simple or a combined cycle solution, and whether 
you’re an industry client, a utility, or an independent power producer, we’ll 
help make your plant more flexible, reliable, and efficient.
14Make the most of fuel | Combined Heat and Power
15