POWERING
 PROGRESS
Exploring the socio-economic  
impacts of Keadby 2 Power Station 
October 2020
Exploring the socio-economic impacts of Keadby 2 Power Station 01 SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy03 Foreword
04 Transition to net zero: the role of gas
05 Introducing Keadby 2
06 Investing locally and across the UK
08 Contributing to local, regional and national economies
10 Supporting local supply chains 
14 Looking after people on site
16 Keadby 2 in the communityCONTENTSAbout this report
In addition to its role in generating flexible and efficient power, the Keadby 2 project is delivering significant  
socio-economic benefits in the local area and across the UK.
From construction jobs, to support for the local supply chain, to charity donations, SSE Thermal and Siemens 
Energy are working with local people and organisations to ensure an enduring positive legacy from the project. 
This report looks at some of the socio-economic benefits that have been generated by the investment in  
Keadby 2, with economic contribution analysis undertaken by BiGGAR Economics.
About SSE Thermal
SSE Thermal, part of the FTSE-listed SSE plc, is a 
leading developer, owner and operator of electricity 
generation and energy storage assets. Its portfolio 
includes five of the most flexible and efficient  
gas-fired power stations across the UK and Ireland.
The business has a strategy to create value for 
shareholders and society by developing, owning 
and operating low-carbon energy infrastructure in a 
sustainable way. Its vision is to become the leading 
provider of flexible thermal energy in a net-zero world. 
As part of this ambition, it has a core focus on further 
decarbonising its energy generation through emerging 
carbon capture and hydrogen solutions.
SSE plc employs 12,000 people directly across the UK 
and Ireland and is proud to be a real Living Wage and 
Fair Tax Mark accredited company.About Siemens Energy
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy 
technology companies. The company works with 
its customers and partners on energy systems for 
the future, thus supporting the transition to a more 
sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, 
solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost 
the entire energy value chain – from power generation 
and transmission to storage.
The portfolio includes conventional and renewable 
energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, 
generators and transformers, together with a portfolio 
to address the energy transition such as eletrolysers, 
hydrogen-capable turbines and ‘Power-to-X’ 
technologies.  More than 50% of the portfolio has 
already been decarbonised. A majority stake in the 
listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy 
(SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader 
for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth 
of the electricity generated worldwide is based on 
technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy 
employs 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 
countries and generated revenue of around €29 billion 
in fiscal year 2019. Siemens Energy is a registered 
trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
FOREWORD
At SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy, we share 
a commitment to supporting the UK’s transition 
to a more sustainable energy system in a way 
that delivers a positive lasting legacy for the 
communities in which we live and work.
The Keadby 2 project brings 
together SSE Thermal’s ambition 
to provide flexible and reliable 
energy in a net-zero world with 
Siemens Energy’s ground-breaking 
gas turbine technology. As project 
partners, we set out to create the 
cleanest and most efficient power 
station on the electricity grid. 
With unparalleled efficiency, 
Keadby 2 will help the UK to move 
away from older, more carbon 
intensive generation in the decades 
ahead. With the ability to reach 
full power in just 30 minutes, it 
will also provide vital flexibility 
to complement the increasing 
amount of renewable energy on 
the system and maintain security 
of supply.
However, as responsible 
developers, we are acutely aware 
that the impact of a project of 
this scale goes far beyond its role 
in power generation. From the 
outset, we wanted to deliver a 
project that was best-in-class for 
local engagement and community 
impact. We are committed to 
ensuring our investment in Keadby 
2 is felt within our neighboring 
communities, from creating 
high-quality jobs, supporting the 
regional supply chain, to providing 
donations to local charities.
We are proud of the efforts of 
our team, particularly through the 
coronavirus pandemic, to continue to progress the project safely 
and efficiently, while minimising 
disruption to the local area. We take 
our responsibilities seriously and we 
want to continue to build on our 
strong relationship with the local 
community to ensure the project 
delivers benefits that endure long 
into the future.
Through cutting edge infrastructure 
projects like Keadby 2, we believe 
North Lincolnshire, and the wider 
Humber region, can lead the way 
in the transition to a cleaner energy 
future and help rejuvenate our 
economy in the process. 
We hope you find this report 
valuable in demonstrating the 
socio-economic impacts of the 
Keadby 2 project. We look forward 
to completing the construction and 
continuing to deliver significant 
socio-economic benefits through 
the delivery of this world class 
energy generation asset.  
 Stephen Wheeler  
 Managing  
 Director,  
 SSE Thermal
  
 
 Steve Scrimshaw  
 Vice President   
 Siemens Energy  
 UK&I
02 03 SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy Exploring the socio-economic impacts of Keadby 2 Power Station
TRANSITION TO NET ZERO:  
THE ROLE OF GAS
The role of gas-fired generation will evolve as the energy system 
decarbonises, but gas will still play a crucial role. As the volume of renewable 
generation on the system increases, other forms of generation will be 
required to respond to market changes and ensure security of supply.  INTRODUCING  
KEADBY 2
The UK’s most-efficient gas-fired  
power station
Providing flexible and 
efficient power
Analysis from National Grid  
and the Committee on Climate  
Change shows a clear role for  
carbon-abated gas in all scenarios 
they describe.1 Fundamentally, 
this role is to support the mass 
expansion of renewable energy in 
the UK by providing: 
• a flexible and efficient energy  
 source when renewable energy  
 output is low;  
• system stability services to  
 support grid with high  
 penetration of renewables; and,  
• improved system diversity and  
 security of supply. 
As we progress through the  
2030s and 2040s, gas-fired 
generation will become a low 
carbon electricity source in its 
own right whilst providing a 
crucial role by supporting an 
electricity system underpinned 
with very large volumes 
of renewable electricity, 
predominately from  
offshore wind.  
This starts with highly efficient gas-
fired generation, like Keadby 2, but 
there’s an imperative for the next 
projects to move to decarbonised 
technologies like post-combustion 
carbon capture and storage or 
using hydrogen as a fuel. For this to 
happen, routes to market need to 
become available and government 
commitment to develop business Keadby 2 is a new 893MW2 
gas-fired power station in North 
Lincolnshire owned by SSE Thermal 
and being constructed by Siemens 
Energy, who will also provide  
long-term maintenance for the 
facility once operational.
The project is located close to the 
village of Keadby near Scunthorpe. 
Construction of the project began 
in 2018 and is expected to be 
completed in 2022. The site is 
located adjacent to the existing 
Keadby 1 Power Station, which 
entered full commercial operation 
in 1996.
Keadby 2 brings first-of-a-kind, 
high-efficiency gas turbine  
technology to the UK, and is models for carbon capture and 
storage and hydrogen are welcome 
developments. 
What is carbon capture  
and storage?
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) 
is a technology that can capture 
at least 90% of the carbon dioxide 
emissions produced from the 
use of fossil fuels in electricity 
generation and industrial processes, 
preventing the carbon dioxide from 
entering the atmosphere. 
The CCS chain consists of three 
parts; capturing the carbon dioxide, 
transporting the carbon dioxide, 
and securely storing the carbon 
dioxide emissions underground, in 
depleted oil and gas fields or deep 
saline aquifer formations. 
What is hydrogen-fired 
generation? 
Hydrogen can replace natural 
gas as the fuel for flexible thermal 
power stations. As an energy vector 
that does not contain carbon, there 
are no carbon dioxide emissions at 
point of use. Instead, when burnt 
with oxygen, the by-product is 
water. 
Both ‘blue’ and ‘green’ hydrogen 
can be used to generate low-
carbon electricity. Blue hydrogen 
is produced from natural gas with 
the resultant carbon emissions 
captured and stored at this point. 
Green hydrogen is created through 
the electrolysis of water. This 
process uses renewable electricity 
and is therefore carbon-free.expected to become the cleanest 
and most-efficient gas-fired power 
station in Europe. The power of 
the new Siemens Energy HL-class 
turbine equals that of 1,400 
Porsche 911 Turbos. Just 21 of the 
machines would roughly match the 
power of a space shuttle at take-off 
- true rocket science!
Keadby 2 will also be capable 
of being upgraded to further 
decarbonise its generation through 
carbon capture or hydrogen 
technology, as routes to  
market develop.  Keadby 2 brings  
 first-of-a-kind,  
 high-efficiency gas  
 turbine  technology  
 to the UK  
1.  National Grid Future Energy Scenarios 2020,  
 Committee on Climate Change’s Net Zero  
 Technical Report, SSE Transition to Net Zero:  
 the role of gas.
2.  Keadby 2 will have a Transmission Entry  
 Capacity of 893MW – the maximum amount  
 of power it will be able to put on the system  
 at any one time. The turbine, manufactured by  
 Siemens Energy Ltd., is guaranteed to provide  
 a minimum of 830MW power.  
04 05 Exploring the socio-economic impacts of Keadby 2 Power Station SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy
INVESTING LOCALLY   
 AND ACROSS THE UK 
Keadby 2 is one of the largest infrastructure projects to be built in the North 
Lincolnshire region. The investment by SSE Thermal associated with the 
project, from development through construction and to the end of its 
operational life, is expected to total £1.2bn.   
Analysis undertaken by BiGGAR 
Economics3 showed that around 
77% of this £1.2bn is estimated 
to be spent in the UK, 45% will 
be spent in the region (Yorkshire 
and the Humber and the East 
Midlands) and 33% will be spent 
in the local area (Doncaster, East 
Riding of Yorkshire, Kingston upon 
Hull, Lincolnshire, North East 
Lincolnshire, North Lincolnshire 
and Nottinghamshire). Just under £330m is being invested 
by SSE Thermal4 to develop and 
construct Keadby 2, the majority 
of which is spent with Siemens 
Energy, the project’s principal 
contractor. Data provided by 
the two companies showed 
that almost half (£158m) of this 
investment has been, or is expected 
to be, secured in the UK. Just 
under 30% of the construction 
cost is expected to be secured in 
Whilst a significant amount of money is being spent on Keadby 2’s 
construction, the majority of total project spend for Keadby 2 will happen 
during its operational life. It is estimated that just under £920m will be 
spent on the operation of Keadby 2 up to the end of financial year 2046. 
with an estimated 87% of this expenditure spent in the UK, 51% spent 
within the region, and 37% spent within the local area.the region, with the majority of this 
spent in the local area.
The top five industries invested in 
as a result of SSE Thermal and  
Siemens Energy’s UK investment 
during the development and 
construction of Keadby 2 are 
shown in the graph below.
06 07 SSE Thermal and Siemens EnergySource:  
BiGGAR Economics  
analysisConstruction
Manufacturing
Administrative and support service activities
Professional, scientific and technical activities
Real estate activities£55m
£11m
£6m
£4m
£- £20m
Local area          Region          UK£40m £60m £80m£69m
Exploring the socio-economic impacts of Keadby 2 Power Station3.  The full report is available to download at  
 sse.com/sustainability/reporting.
4.  This excludes risk/contingency. Including  
 this budgeted expenditure would take the  
 total investment in development and  
 construction to £344m. £305m was spent  
 by the end of August 2020. 
CONTRIBUTING TO  
LOCAL, REGIONAL  
AND NATIONAL ECONOMIESKEADBY 2 POWER STATION’S  
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION
Through its development, construction and operation, Keadby 2 has 
generated and will continue to generate substantial local, regional and 
national economic benefits. These benefits are driven in part by efforts made 
by SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy to support a domestic supply chain over 
the project’s lifetime.
Undertaking  
socio-economic analysis
To understand the scale of this 
economic contribution, SSE 
Thermal and Siemens Energy 
commissioned BiGGAR Economics 
to calculate the economic impact 
of the project. The full technical 
report is available to download 
on ssethermal.com/keadby2  
and www.siemens-energy.com/
keadby2
Investment in Keadby 2 drives 
economic activity through the 
value it adds to the economy 
(referred to as Gross Value 
Added or GVA) and the years 
of employment it supports. To 
fully capture the impacts of 
this spending, the economic 
contribution results detailed below 
include activity further down the 
supply chain (indirect impacts) 
and activity that results from the 
spending of salaries (induced 
impacts), as well as direct impacts. 
Local benefits 
BiGGAR Economics analysed the 
contribution made by Keadby 
2 in the local area (defined as 
Doncaster, East Riding of Yorkshire, 
Kingston upon Hull, Lincolnshire, 
North East Lincolnshire, North 
Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire). During the development and 
construction of Keadby 2, the 
analysis showed that £51m is 
expected to be contributed to the 
local economy, with 790 years of 
employment supported. Over the 
operational phase, it was estimated 
that £13m will be added to the local 
economy each year, with a total of 
220 jobs supported on an annual 
basis. This means that over Keadby 
2’s lifetime, £361m is expected to 
be added to the local economy. 
These results include the local 
people employed on site, with jobs 
ranging from providing technical 
expertise and labour to delivering 
catering facilities, as well as the 
wider impact of the spending 
of employee wages in local 
restaurants, hotels, petrol stations 
and shops. 
Regional benefits 
During development and 
construction, BiGGAR Economics 
estimated that £76m would 
be contributed to the regional economy, defined as Yorkshire and 
the Humber and the East Midlands, 
with 1,170 years of employment 
supported. Over the operational 
phase, it was estimated that £17m 
will be added to the regional 
economy each year, with a total of 
290 jobs supported on an annual 
basis. This means that over Keadby 
2’s lifetime, £494m is expected to 
be added to the regional economy. 
UK benefits 
At a UK level, the analysis by 
BiGGAR Economics showed that 
£175m was contributed to the 
UK economy, with 2,900 years of 
employment supported as a result 
of investment in the project during 
development and construction. 
Over the operational phase, it was 
estimated that £36m will be added 
to the UK economy each year, with 
a total of 550 jobs supported on an 
annual basis. This means that over 
Keadby 2’s lifetime, £1,035m  
is expected to be added to the  
UK economy. 
08 09 SSE Thermal and Siemens EnergyOver £1bn
Keadby 2’s expected contribution to the UK economy 
over its lifetime.
Exploring the socio-economic impacts of Keadby 2 Power StationLifetime UK economic  
contribution: £1,035m
Development and construction:  
£175m and 2,900 years of employment
Operation and maintenance:  
£36m per year and 550 jobs annually
Lifetime regional economic  
contribution: £494m
Development and construction:  
£76m and 1,170 years of employment
Operation and maintenance:  
£17m per year and 290 jobs annually
Lifetime local economic  
contribution: £361m
Development and construction:  
£51m and 790 years of employment
Operation and maintenance:  
£13m per year and 220 jobs annually
Note:
Totals may not sum due to rounding. 
Operation and maintenance contribution  
is the total undiscounted economic 
impact of operational expenditure. Local 
contribution is included in total regional 
contribution and regional contribution  
is included in total UK contribution.UK
Regional area
Local area
Following its attendance at the 
project’s Meet the Buyer event, 
the company secured an ongoing 
contract with the Keadby 2 project 
providing winter gritting services 
along with weed control and vegetation clearance as required. 
Peter Lindley, Group Manager for 
Complete Weed Control, said: 
“Having worked with SSE Thermal 
for a number of years, providing 
services to the operationalKeadby 1 station, securing business 
on the Keadby 2 construction 
project has been a real positive 
for us, giving us the opportunity 
to provide local operatives with 
ongoing employment.”  CASE STUDY:     
COMPLETE WEED CONTROL
As a locally based company, Complete Weed Control provides a range of 
ground maintenance services to the South and East Yorkshire and North and 
South Lincolnshire areas.  CASE STUDY:     
CGB HUMBERTHERM  
Keadby 2 has been able to secure specialist 
expertise from within the local area during the 
construction of the power plant.  
as a result has been able to 
demonstrate to SSE Thermal the 
expertise that is available locally.  
As a result, CGB Humbertherm 
secured work worth approximately 
£2m for the installation of thermal 
insulation at the new Keadby 2 
power plant. This is a significant 
contract for the local company and 
is equivalent to a third of its annual 
turnover.   
The long-term relationship with 
Keadby 1 and the significant 
contract awarded by Keadby 2 
provides the stability that CGB 
Humbertherm needs to develop 
its workforce. The installation of 
thermal insulation is a skilled trade 
and the operatives will do a  
four-year apprenticeship. The 
company employs young people 
from the area and offers them the 
ability to train, earn and progress. CGB Humbertherm is a specialist 
thermal insulation company that 
was formed in 1974 and is based 
in Immingham, 20 miles away 
from Keadby 2. Its main areas of 
expertise are the design, supply 
and installation of all types of 
insulation for use on power 
generation plants.   
The number of people that CGB 
Humbertherm employs will vary 
depending on the level of work 
it has, but typically it will directly 
employ between 60 and 70 
people who live within a 35km 
radius. This will include thermal 
insulation operatives, sheet 
metal workers, labourers and 
apprentices.  
CGB Humbertherm has worked 
for years on the neighbouring 
Keadby 1 power plant and The retention rate for their 
apprentices is higher than most 
other trades and the majority of 
their current employees originally 
started off in the company as 
apprentices. CGB Humbertherm 
currently employs three 
apprentices. 
The relationship and experience 
that CGB Humbertherm has 
developed from its work on Keadby 
2 has also enabled it to win work 
with Siemens Energy further 
afield. This has included outage 
maintenance contracts for existing 
power plants in the UK and Ireland.
Prior to this, Siemens Energy had 
typically imported expertise in 
power station thermal insulation.
10 11 SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy
SUPPORTING LOCAL    
SUPPLY CHAINS 
Both SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy are 
committed to maximising the use of local 
companies wherever possible. The case studies 
on the following pages showcase some examples 
of local businesses which have benefited from  
the project.
Exploring the socio-economic impacts of Keadby 2 Power StationThe Keadby 2 project team 
hosted a local ‘Meet the Buyer’ 
event in December 2018, prior 
to the commencement of the 
main construction works. Over 
75 local businesses attended the 
event, held at the DoubleTree 
Forest Pines Hotel near 
Scunthorpe, which gave each 
company the opportunity to 
pitch their goods and services 
to a member of the Siemens 
Energy procurement team. 
12 13 SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy
Local contractors have built on their relationship 
with SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy at Keadby 2 
to secure projects further afield. 
was a strong match for CLS 
Engineering’s core activities and 
included demolition activity and 
site clearance, where a coal-fired 
power plant had previously existed, 
as well as the relocation of the 
contractor’s village and fencing.  
These contracts directly supported 
the employment of over 75 people, 
including 60 employees of CLS 
Engineering and 15 subcontractors 
who worked on the site. This was 
a local workforce, and 90% live 
within a 50km radius of the site 
at Keadby 2. The jobs that were 
supported included: 
• site manager and foreman; 
• plant operatives; 
• skilled labourers; and  
• operatives 
This was the first direct contract 
CLS Engineering had with Siemens 
Energy. CLS Engineering impressed 
Siemens Energy with their 
approach to the work and the  
skillset of their employees. CLS 
Engineering have used the skills 
and experience from the Keadby 
2 work to secure further contracts 
with Siemens Energy, including 
enabling works in South Wales 
and groundworks for a substation 
extension to facilitate the expansion 
to the combined installed capacity 
of Keadby 1 and Keadby 2.CLS Engineering is a civil contractor 
based in Brigg, Lincolnshire that 
specialises in demolition and 
construction work. It is a family 
company that was established in 
1972 and has completed over 1,300 
civil engineering and demolition 
projects.   
CLS Engineering was awarded two 
contracts for the Keadby 2 power 
plant, with a combined value of 
£5.7m. These were important 
contracts for the company and 
was equivalent to half of its 
annual turnover. The scope of 
works required for these projects CASE STUDY:     
CLS ENGINEERING   
CLS Engineering 
was awarded two 
contracts for the 
Keadby 2 power 
plant, with a 
combined value  
of £5.7m.
Exploring the socio-economic impacts of Keadby 2 Power Station
LOOKING AFTER  
PEOPLE ON SITE
Construction of Keadby 2 commenced in August 2018 and since then  
the team have inducted over 3,400 people on to the project site. 
Everyone on site is empowered 
with the message: ‘If it’s not safe, 
we don’t do it’.
SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy 
share a commitment to prioritising 
the wellbeing of everyone on the 
site, which has enabled the team to 
build a first-class health and safety 
culture. 
The Magnificent 7
Safety is a topic that involves 
everyone on site and creating an 
inclusive culture is something that 
has been important from day one 
of the project. Monthly site audit 
scores are awarded to teams based 
on 7 Key Safety Principles, with the 
team scoring highest each taking 
home a prize.
Health and Safety  
Steering Group  
Senior leaders from SSE Thermal 
and Siemens Energy established a dedicated Health and Safety 
Steering Group at the outset of the 
Keadby 2 project. 
The group, which is attended by 
senior management from both 
companies, meets regularly to 
discuss performance at the site and 
look at new ways of working to 
foster a positive culture. 
Best-in-class facilities
Up to 800 people are expected 
on site per day during peak 
construction so providing industry-
leading facilities has been key to 
the project’s success. 
Each individual has access to 
the project’s dedicated team of 
full-time site medics, provided by 
MediWright. This service not only 
covers the essentials, such as first 
aid and emergency rescue, but also 
a host of additional facilities.SSE Thermal  
and Siemens  
Energy share a  
commitment 
to prioritising 
the wellbeing of 
everyone on the 
site, which has 
enabled the team  
to build a first-class 
health and  
safety culture. 
14 15 SSE Thermal and Siemens EnergyOver 3,400 people inducted at site 
1,204,488 safe hours worked  
Over 99% safe days
Exploring the socio-economic impacts of Keadby 2 Power Station
SSE has been a leading Living Wage accredited employer since 2013. 
This means that everyone who works directly for SSE or regularly on its 
behalf, including at Keadby 2, is paid at least the real Living Wage as set 
by the Living Wage Foundation.Well Man Clinics were introduced 
early in the project, providing a 
free-to-access service for general 
medical checks such as testing for 
cholesterol, blood pressure and 
BMI, as well as as a listening ear 
to anyone that may need extra 
support or signposting. Monthly wellbeing initiatives 
Alongside the essential services 
and Well Man Clinics, MediWright 
promotes a topical health and 
wellbeing initiative each month 
to raise awareness and engage 
everyone on the site about a  key issue e.g. prostate cancer 
awareness, drink driving and 
suicide prevention.
Responding to COVID-19
There is no doubt that the 
biggest challenge of 2020 came 
in the form of the coronavirus 
pandemic. 
At Keadby 2, the number one 
priority from the beginning of 
the crisis was the wellbeing of 
everyone working on site and 
their loved ones.  
Immediate action was taken 
to make changes throughout 
the site’s construction, welfare 
and office areas in line with the 
evolving guidelines issued by the 
UK Government, HSE and UK 
Construction Leadership Council. A number of strict processes 
were put in place, including social 
distancing, increased hygiene 
measures and deep cleaning 
regimes, as well as reducing 
numbers at site where possible. 
As with any new guidance and 
changes, the success of the 
measures could not havebeen 
achieved without the co-operation 
of everyone at the site. 
Tony Duckitt, a site-based GMB 
Union Representative, said:
“As a site, our response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic has been 
robust and reassuring for the 
workforce. The HSE and management teams have worked 
closely with Industrial Relations 
and Trade Unions to ensure 
that any necessary additional 
measures were implemented. 
The site’s first class facilities 
manager and cleaning team have 
played a key role in making sure 
that communal facilities were 
cleaned and maintained to a 
high standard. Introducing a shift 
pattern and staggered start and 
finish times has meant workers 
have been able to achieve social 
distancing while still working to 
deliver the project.”
KEADBY 2  
IN THE COMMUNITY 
Working together to create a positive culture throughout the project has been 
a key focus for both the SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy teams. 
Keadby with Althorpe Primary School – Greenpower Project CASE STUDY:     
ENCOURAGING NEXT  
GENERATION ENGINEERS   
During 2019, the Keadby 2 team 
was approached with a request for 
funding and support by Keadby 
with Althorpe Primary School, 
which is local to the site. 
The team were delighted to provide 
£1,000 towards the purchase of a 
‘KIT’ car so that the school could 
join the Greenpower Project. 
Project engineers Christopher 
Whitely and Tim Simpson also 
volunteered their time each week 
to help out with the after-school 
Greenpower Club. 
Mrs Appleyard from Keadby with 
Althorpe Primary who leads the after 
school Greenpower Club, said: 
“Throughout this build the children 
are having to work together as 
a team, sharing out jobs and 
responsibilities as well as learning 
from each other. Thanks to Chris and Tim the children who are 
used to being involved in these 
types of activities are still learning 
and developing their own skills, 
broadening their mechanical 
knowledge of how to work 
effectively with tools and put 
different components together.  
Both Chris and Tim have developed good working relationships with 
the children. They allow the 
children to have a go at something 
and when the children have 
difficulties, they encourage them to 
think about why something went 
wrong or how they could approach 
a task differently rather than just 
showing them how it is done.”
16 17 SSE Thermal and Siemens Energy Exploring the socio-economic impacts of Keadby 2 Power StationAs part of ongoing engagement, 
members of the team regularly 
attend careers events at local 
schools and colleges. The Keadby 2 charitable donations 
scheme, introduced in 2018, 
provides an opportunity for a 
monthly donation of £1,000 to a local charity. The donation is linked 
to the site’s safety performance 
and efforts are made to encourage 
members of the site team to 
nominate a local charity.  
To date over £20,000 has been 
awarded locally, including to: 
• Isle of Axholme Lions 
• Lincolnshire Air Ambulance 
• Lindsey Lodge Hospice  
 Scunthorpe
• Crowle Primary Academy 
• Crowle Regeneration Group 
• Disney Ward at Scunthorpe  
 General Hospital 
• Keadby with Althorpe  
 Primary School 
• Epworth School Playgroup
sse.com
siemens-energy.comDesigned and produced by  
Work Creative  |  Doncaster
www.workcreative.co.uk
Published in October 2020