Large-scale 
Industrial Heat 
Pumps
Proven high and low temperature heat 
pumps for up to 150°C and 70 MWth
For best viewing experience, please open this interactive PDF 
in the Acrobat PDF Viewer 10.0 or higher.
Visit our website: siemens-energy.com/heatpumps
Large-scale Industrial Heat Pumps
As a pioneer of large heat pumps, we are committed to the benefits of this technology as an 
integral part of the energy mix. This spirit of intelligent innovation has resulted in more than 
50 heat pump installations since the 1980s. Heat pumps are an efficient and cost-effective 
solution for heating and cooling. They raise the temperature by absorbing thermal energy 
from an existing low-temperature heat source and releasing it to a warmer space.
Low-temperature heat pump
For up to 100°C feed temperature and 45 MWth
Our low-temperature heat pumps use a geared two-stage centrifugal compressor.  
The heat pump design was proven in more than 50 deliveries, with more than 6 million  
accumulated operating hours. It is optimized for dynamic operations with fast ramp  
rates and can operate down to 30% load.

High-temperature heat pump
For up to 150°C feed temperature and 70 MWth
Our high-temperature heat pumps use single-shaft or geared-type compressors. 
The heat pumps can provide heat at temperatures of up to 150°C. For applications for 
instance in process industries, high-temperature heat pumps can be combined with steam 
compressors for steam supply up to 55 bara and 270°C.

References
The ruggedness of our heavy-duty industrial heat pumps has been 
truly proven over decades, with 50 units delivered in the mid-1980s 
and more than 6 million cumulative hours of operation.Outstanding 
performance
High flexibility
Proven technology based 
on > 2.100 compressors 
delivered since 1948
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.Published by and copyright © 2023:
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/global/en/offerings/power-generation/heat-pumps.html
E-mail: gs.sales@siemens-energy.com
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.