Decarbonization of district 
heating and industrial
heat production 
Reduce CO2 emissions from networks with CHP 
(Combined Heat and Power) and P2H (Power-to-Heat)
Affordability 
Efficiency improvements and the use 
of waste heat can play a major role in 
decarbonizing heat production at rea-
sonable cost. The technologies to decar -
bonize industrial- and district-heating 
already exist and are ready to be scaled. 
Sustainability  
A rapid reduction in carbon emissions 
can be achieved by transitioning from 
coal- or oil-based steam plants to gas 
turbine powered CHP systems. Deep 
decarbonization can be reached by 
switch-ing from nat-ural gas to biofuels 
or hydrogen. Even negative CO 2 emis- 
sions can be attained by combining CCS 
(Carbon Capture Storage) with biofuels 
(BECCS).
Due to their high CoP (Coefficient of 
Performance) heat pumps provide low 
carbon heat. They are completely carbon 
neutral, if they are powered with renew-
able electricity. 
Flexibility
Heat can be stored significantly more 
cost effective than electricity. The com-
bination of P2H with CHP stabilizes the 
power market. Heat pumps are prefer-
ably operated at times of low power 
prices due to surplus renewable energy. 
When power prices are high CHP plants 
can profitably sell power and produce 
heat at the same time. At peak heat 
demand it is possible to operate the heat 
pump together with the CHP plant.Siemens Energy’s heat decar -
bonization solutions provide 
several benefits
Transforming heat production 
We meet you at your starting point
The decarbonization of heat generation has emerged 
as a critical imperative in the pursuit of sustainable 
and climate-friendly industrial processes and district 
heating networks. Heat generation for industrial 
purposes and district heating networks often relies 
on fossil fuel combustion, contributing significantly 
to greenhouse gas emissions and ex-acerbating the 
global climate crisis. Recognizing the urgent need 
to transition to cleaner and more sustainable alter -
natives, the focus has shifted towards decarbonizing 
heat generation.
Decarbonizing heat generation for district heating 
networks is crucial for creating resilient and efficient 
heating systems. Traditionally, these systems have 
relied on fossil fuel-based boilers or CHP plants. 
Transitioning to low-carbon heat sources, such as 
environmental heat, waste heat recovery, or the 
combustion of biofuels or hydrogen, has the poten -
tial to not only reduce greenhouse gas emissions but 
also to improve air quality. Decarbonization of dis -
trict heating networks also supports the integration 
of intermittent renewable energy sources, enabling 
better utilization of excess electricity during periods 
of high generation.
Similarly, decarbonizing heat generation in indus -
trial processes holds immense importance. Many 
industrial sectors, such as manufacturing, chemicals, 
and refining, rely on high-temperature heat for their 
operations. These processes often involve the com -
bustion of fossil fuels, leading to substantial green -house gas emissions. By shifting towards low-carbon 
or carbon-neutral heat sources, such as renewable 
energy-based technologies, industrial processes can 
substantially reduce their carbon footprint, mitigat-
ing climate change impacts and enhancing environ -
mental sustainability.
In conclusion, transitioning heat generation for in -
dustrial purposes and district heating networks into 
net zero CO 2 heating systems is of paramount im -
portance to combat climate change, reduce carbon 
emissions, and create sustainable energy systems. Heat production accounts for half of the world’s 
final energy consumption and contributes 40% of 
global carbon dioxide (CO ₂) emissions. 
Figure 1: Compressor of a low-temperature heat pump
Decarbonization of district heating and industrial heat production  - Unrestricted Information
2
Increasing fuel efficiency with gas 
Turbine based CHP solutions 
Hydrogen and biofuels
Biomass
Electrification of heat with 
power-to-heat technologies
01
02
03
04What is heat decarbonization?
Heat decarbonization, also known 
as heat transition, is a process for 
reducing CO 2 emissions from heat 
production. This can be achieved in 
different ways. One possibility is to 
switch to a low-carbon fuel and to 
make the fuel usage more efficient. 
This low-carbon fuel can also be replaced with a carbon-free fuel. 
Alternatively, heat production can 
also be electrified by using power 
from renewable energy. Existing 
heat infrastructure can be trans -
formed fast and at large scale into 
affordable and flexible low-carbon 
energy systems. Prepare your 
plant for a 
carbon-free 
future
Technologies to decarbonize heatingCarbon footprint reduction in heat generation
CHP generates electricity and heat from a sin-
gle fuel source. Depending on the fuel used, the 
CO 2 emissions per kWh of thermal energy from 
traditional heating plants, differ widely and range 
between ~200 gr/kWh for natural gas to ~380 
gr/kWh for lignite. Therefore, even a simple fuel 
switch may reduce CO 2 emissions by nearly 50%. 
In addition, the efficiency of the plant can be sig -
nificantly increased by converting it into GT-pow-
ered CHP or into a CCPP (Combined Cycle Power 
Plant) with heat extraction. 
The most modern combined cycle power plants 
achieve electric efficiencies of up to 64%. A total energy efficiency of up to 90% can be achieved 
by using combined heat and power or combined 
cold and power solutions. Siemens Energy has a 
proven track record of providing best-in-class 
products, solutions, and services for CHP. This 
is demonstrated by hundreds of cogeneration 
plants worldwide. From single gas and steam 
turbines or heat recovery steam generators to  
full turnkey installations, from waste treatment         
in Scotland to textile manufacturing in Mexico. 
The same commitment is iterated in all of our 
projects around the globe, bringing out the best  
in CHP.01
Increasing fuel efficiency with 
gas turbine based CHP solutions 
Find out which gas turbine fits best for your application
Figure 2: Sector coupling scenario including decarbonized heat
5
Decarbonization of district heating and industrial heat production  - Unrestricted Information
Clean fuels, like green hydrogen or biofuels, can significantly lower CO ₂  
emissions and eliminate fossil fuel dependency in gas turbines. This ap-
proach is an effective way to future-proof CHP plants and maximize 
their lifespan.02 Hydrogen and biofuels
Our hydrogen power plants include use 
cases for newly built as well as existing in -
stallations. Our goal is clear: we support 
our customers with their hydrogen ambi- 
tions, whether for existing or new units,    
and we can help with creating a roadmap 
to a full hydrogen power plant.
The hydrogen power plant can be cus -
tomized to your project-specific ne eds.              
Find out how much carbon footprint you 
can reduce by burning green hydrogen in 
your gas turbine. Calculate your CO₂ reduc -
tion and cost-savings potential on carbon 
certificates.Hydrogen
Figure 3: Siemens Energy hydrogen power plantBiogas
Biogas is suitable where existing gas infrastructure is in place 
and can be blended with natural gas in a transitional phase. 
Flexible mixing of hydrogen with biogas also strengthens the 
gas turbine competitiveness as it allows the installed gas tur -
bines to operate also when hydrogen is expensive. 
Liquid biofuels
Liquid biofuels are suitable for back-up or peaking applica- 
tions, especially where no gas infrastructure is in place, like in 
remote applications and island grids. Liquid biofuels can also 
be a backup fuel to natural gas, hydrogen or biogas. That way, 
the storage capacity for the gas can be dimensioned for the 
normal operational profile, while liquid biofuel can be avail-
able for more unusual events and provide an alternative in 
cases of interruption of gas supply. Biofuels like biogas, biodiesel, biomethanol and bioethanol are other important 
decarbonized fuels and part of our gas turbine R&D roadmap at Siemens Energy. 
Shift to operation with new greener fuels can be done in new and already exist-
ing gas turbines.Biofuels
H2 fired CHP may play an important role in future 
energy systems.
Competitivity of the technology will depend on: Hydrogen decarbonization calculator
• Availability and cost of H₂ • Cost of natural gas • CO₂ certificate prices or taxes
7
Decarbonization of district heating and industrial heat production  - Unrestricted Information 6
03 Biomass
Another decarbonization path is to transform 
fossil fired heat generation by switching to sus -
tainably produced biomass in CHP plants. 
We are looking forward to support you on this 
journey with our broad portfolio offerings, from 
steam turbine technology to instrumentation 
and controls and cyber security solutions.
When adding CCS, biomass- or biofuel-based 
CHP plants can be further transformed into 
BECCS (BioEnergy with Carbon Capture and 
Storage), thus allowing for negative emissions 
and energy production at the same time.
Biomass power plant solutions
9
Decarbonization of district heating and industrial heat production  - Unrestricted Information
04
Electrification of heat with power-to-heat 
technologies
P2H systems signal a paradigm shift in the capabilities of 
low-carbon energy systems. Since these technologies can be 
exclusively powered by green electricity, it allows the inte-
gration of renewable energy sources in heat energy produc -
tion ‒ an integration that is both crucial and long overdue. 
There are several technologies used in power-to-heat sys -
tems, each with its unique working principles and advan -
tages. The choice of the right P2H technology depends, 
besides other factors, on the required temperature level.  
In this document we would like to focus on four different 
technologies:
Heat pumps
Electrical boilers
Turbo heatersHeat pumps use waste or environmental heat 
from various sources and raise their temper-
ature level with the help of electricity. There-
fore, it is possible to achieve CoP that are much 
higher than the efficiency of electrical heaters. 
As a result of their low electricity consumption, 
their operational cost (OPEX) is significantly 
lower. Hence, they serve as an excellent option 
for providing a long-term heat supply.
Heat pumps are suitable for temperature levels 
of up to 150°C. Temperatures of up to 270°C 
can be achieved in combination with a steam 
compressor. Siemens Energy can look back 
on numerous large heat pumps installed in 
the 1980s and 1990s, mainly in Scandinavian 
countries. We have been offering solutions 
with thermal outputs of up to 70 MW from 
one unit. Also, the contribution goes beyond 
mere hardware delivery, we offer tailor-made comprehensive turnkey solutions from concep -
tual design to installation, commissioning and 
maintaining large heat pumps by using our 
own compressor portfolio.
        Learn more about our heat pumps
Electrical boilers work with heating rods 
or electrodes. They are a well-established 
technology, simple, fast to install, and 
require relatively low capital expendi-
tures (CAPEX). However, despite the fact 
that their efficiency is close to 100% they 
consume significantly more power than 
heat pumps. Electrical boilers can achieve 
temperature levels of up to 370°C. Induction heating
Induction heating is already used in many 
industrial processes for direct heating and 
melting of electrically conductive mate -
rials. With growing pressure for decar-      
bonization of industrial applications solu-
tions for indirect heating of non-conduc-
tive fluids or gases emerge. The advantage 
of this innovative technology are tempera -
ture levels of up to 1000°C, compact space 
requirements, fast heat gradients and lim-
ited losses, as it can be directly integrated 
into the industrial processes.
Turbo heaters are another innovative 
technology for heating up process gases 
to temperature levels of up to 1000°C. A 
compressor accelerates the gas to a super -
sonic level. The resulting shock wave then 
converts the mechanical energy quite 
effectively into heat. 
 Figure 4: Low-temperature heat pump installation with buildingFigure 5: Industrial heat pump configuration for up to 150°C 
forwarding temperature and 70 MWth
Decarbonization of district heating and industrial heat production  - Unrestricted Information
11 10
What is the best decarbonization option for your 
heating infrastructure? 
For maximum efficacy, it often makes sense to 
combine different technologies. To make the 
best choice, there are several factors to consider. 
One of them is the required temperature level. 
Others are the need for dispatchable power, 
green electricity cost, availability of waste heat 
and annual heat curve. For instance, if you have 
a lot of renewable energy, it makes sense to 
consider P2H.As most of the factors influencing the technol-
ogy choice depend on the location of the heat -
ing network, there is no one-fits-all solution. 
However, a pre-selection of suitable technologies 
can be done. The matrix below shows the tem -
perature level that can be achieved with different 
technologies.Repowering of existing heat production facilities 
for a decarbonized energy economy
Transforming existing heat infrastructure is an 
important lever for heat decarbonization. This can 
either be done by repowering heating plants or 
pure power plants into cogeneration plants. Alter -
natively, you can convert an existing heating or 
CHP plant into a P2H (Power to Heat) application.
For such undertakings we have developed our 
brownfield transformation approach. It is a holis -
tic approach to decarbonize legacy plants within a 
short time frame and with reduced permitting 
efforts while saving costs by re-using as much of 
the existing infrastructure as possible. 
We start where you are! We know that power- and heat producers and 
industries have different starting points and move 
at different speeds on their energy transition 
journey. That’s why, no matter where you are, we 
help you pick up speed on your road to decar- 
bonization be it during the concept state, techni -
cally or exploring different financing models.
Our experienced service team is ready to assist 
you in deciding which solution is the right one 
for you. Please do not hesitate to contact your 
local Siemens Energy representative for further 
information.
Visit our Customer Energy Portal  cep.siemens-
energy.com  or our  webpage  siemens-energy.com .Contact UsContact us today to find the best solution 
for decarbonizing your heat network!
Figure 7: Decarbonization pathways for heat systems Figure 6: Comparison of technologies for heat decarbonization 
13
Decarbonization of district heating and industrial heat production  - Unrestricted Information 12
Low carbon 
heat examples
The numerous advantages of P2H and CHP make it an ideal 
solution for an even greater number of possible applications. 
See how businesses across the globe benefit from Siemens 
Energy products, from district heating in China to textile 
manufacturing in Mexico:
Heat pump application for district 
heating in Mannheim
MVV Mannheim heat pump | Siemens 
Energy Global (siemens-energy.com)
District heating from waste heat in Berlin
Making the Most of Waste Heat | Siemens 
Energy Global (siemens-energy.com)02 I Germany
 03 I Sweden
Biofuels in CHP plants in Stockholm 
and Gothenburg 
Green fuels | Distributed Power 
Generation | Siemens Energy Global 
(siemens-energy.com)01 I Mexico
CHP in Mexico‘s textile industry
SGT-750 for Grupo Kaltex in Mexico 
| Siemens Energy Global (siemens-
energy.com)
04 I China
Replacing coal-fired CHP with highly 
efficient and low-carbon CCPPs in the 
Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao greater 
bay area.
Siemens Energy to supply F-class gas tur -
bines to power China’s Greater Bay Area 
development | Press | Siemens Energy 
(siemens-energy.com)
Decarbonization of district heating and industrial heat production  - Unrestricted Information
15 14
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 München, Germany
For the US published by
 
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/website
Article No. CB3-23-0135-BP-EN-01
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains 
general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect 
those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development 
of the products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be 
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other 
companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners .