25
EURO
HEAT &POWER II/2022 www.ehp-magazine.comRENEWABLE ENERGIES   SPECIALIST TOPIC 
Making the Most of Waste Heat
Before the end of 2022, at Potsdamer Platz in the German capital Berlin, a novel high-
temperature industrial heat pump will start supplying the city’s district heating system with net-zero heat. This is a pioneering project on the way to decarbonizing heat.
No doubt, it’s got a quirky name: 
“Qwark3”. It’s actually the German 
acronym for “Quartiers-Wä rme-Kraft-Kä lte-Kopplung”, which in English translates as “Coupling of district heating, power, and cool-ing”. Though it may sound compli-cated, Qwark is a very real and straightforward pilot project for de-carbonizing heat right at the heart of Berlin. 
As a joint project between Vatten-
fall Wärme Berlin AG and Siemens Energy, Qwark
3 aims to prove that 
it’s possible to use large-scale heat pumps for urban district heating in a way that not only helps to achieve Berlin’s net zero goal by 2050 but can also make economic sense. How? Essentially, by effi  ciently uti-lizing waste heat, which would otherwise go unused, together with electricity from 100% renewables. It will generate CO
2-free heat for the 
urban infrastructure it’s embedded in. And could Qwark
3 be a blueprint 
for other cities? The Bundesminis-terium für Wirtschaft und Kli-maschutz (German Federal Minis-try for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection) endeavors to answer this question and is there-fore funding the pilot project. 
For sure, it’s only just one small 
building block that aims to make its contribution to the world’s ambi-tious decarbonization goals. Today, as most countries are aiming for net-zero emissions by mid-century, energy demand is expected to rise signifi  cantly at the same time. In the EU, the target is to increase en-ergy effi  ciency by 32% while reduc-ing emission by 40% by 2030.
1)
But as small as the project in 
Berlin may seem at fi  rst glance, it also leads towards bigger things, of which the decarbonization of heat is crucial for achieving net zero. Today heat accounts for about half of the total energy consumption in the EU. Two-thirds of this heat is still generated by fossil fuels. At the same time, more and more fos-sil-fueled power stations generating heat are taken offl  ine. So, the decar-A high-temperature heat pump will make the most out of waste heat  
Source: Siemens Energy
1)  https://ec.europa.eu/clima/eu-action/
climate-strategies-targets/2030-cli-
mate-energy-framework_en

26
EURO
HEAT &POWER II/2022 www.ehp-magazine.comSPECIALIST TOPIC  UNTERRUBRIKENNAME SPECIALIST TOPIC  RENEWABLE ENERGIES
bonization of the heat sector will 
inadvertently be a central compo -
nent of the energy transition. 
And unsurprisingly, it also war -
rants a special focus on industry – and consequently, industrial scale heat pumps. Within the EU, indus -
try accounts for a quarter of energy consumption and 20% of direct emissions. Heat is the most promi -
nent energy, as roughly two-thirds are being applied in glass, steel, chemical or paper industries.
2)
Heat pumps operate based on a 
simple working principle (figure 1): 
With a certain amount of additional energy, in most cases electricity, they lift temperature from a low-temperature heat source to a usable level at the heat sink or con -
sumer. Thus, they generate much more heat than a direct conversion of electric power to heat. 
This also shows how heat pumps 
can foster decarbonization. It’s a two-step process. First, the heat supply is greenified by using renew -able electricity instead of generat -
ing it with fossil fuels. Second, this sector coupling of green electricity with heat is much more efficient than direct electric heating. 
And this technology can be de -
ployed in all kinds of environments, as heat pumps can make use of various heat sources, such as in -
dustrial waste heat generated by a chemical plant or a data center, ge -
othermal heat sources, ambient air, or even rivers or the sea They can be used in diverse contexts, such as industry, district heating or individ -
ual buildings.
Unsurprisingly, that’s why heat 
pumps are expected to be deployed at a large scale in the coming years, paving the way for electrifying the heat sector. Currently, heat pumps in Europe are mainly used in small -
er units for heating and cooling buildings. They’re mostly limited to a temperature range below 90 °C 
and expected to be used on a much larger basis than today. In Germany, for instance, the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection expects around 5.5 mil -
lion heat pumps installed mostly for individual buildings with around 33TWh by 2030, compared to 
7TWh today.  
Yet recent developments, espe -
cially new refrigerants, have facili -
tated new heat pump applications with temperatures of up to 150 °C. 
These are called high-temperature heat pumps. They can help industry capture waste heat and reuse it to provide hot water or steam for pro -
cess heating. In steam production, this temperature limit can even be further pushed e.g., by applying steam compression. These heat pumps can also be used for district heating or effectively raising low temperature levels of available heat sources to the level of district heat -
ing.
This is where Qwark3 comes in. In 
future, Siemens Energy’s large-scale heat pump at Potsdamer Platz utilizes waste heat very efficiently by upgrading and feeding it into the city’s district heating network. But in Berlin, where no classical indus -
trial plant can be found, where does the waste heat come from? 
Since 1997, a cooling plant by 
Vattenfall Wärme Berlin close to Potsdamer Platz has been supplying cooling to around 12,000 offices, 1,000 housing units, and numerous cultural institutions in the area (figure 2). In doing so, it produces 
considerable amounts of waste heat that have so far been dissipating into the air through cooling towers. But by installing a high-tempera -
ture heat pump with a thermal ca -
pacity of up to 8 MW, this waste heat will be put to good use. The large-scale heat pump will flexibly deliver flow temperatures between 85 and 120°C, according to the demand in 
the district heating network. 
The heat should amount to about 
55GWh per year, with an estimated 
annual saving of about 6,500 t of 
CO 2 emissions and 120,000 m3 of 
cooling water. It’s a win-win situa -
tion, as it improves the efficiency of the cooling station while providing Figure 1. Working principle of a heat pump
Source: Siemens Energy
Heat input
Electricity
Heat outputQoutQin
CondenserMotorRefrigerant:
gaseous, slightly warmRefrigerant:
liquid, cold
Refrigerant:
liquid, warm/slightly hotRefrigerant:
gaseous, very hotExpansionvalveCompressorEvaporator
2) https://www.sintef.no/globalassets/
sintef-energi/industrial-heat-pump-
whitepaper/2020-07-10-whitepaper-ihp-a4.pdf
27
EURO
HEAT &POWER II/2022 www.ehp-magazine.comBerlin with green heat from renew -
able electricity. Moreover, it’s one of 
the first trials for such large-scale, high-temperature heat pumps un -
der real conditions.
And Siemens Energy is in a good 
position to supply this kind of solu -
tion. In the field of industrial heat pumps, the company has been offer -
ing solutions with thermal outputs of up to 70 MW from one unit. The company can also look back on nu -
merous large heat pumps installed in the 1980s and 1990s, mainly in Scandinavian countries. Also, the contribution goes beyond mere hardware delivery, as Siemens Ener -
gy offers comprehensive turnkey solutions from conceptual design to installation, commissioning and maintaining large heat pumps by using its own compressor portfolio.
Berlin may be the first to experi -
ence such an exciting pilot project, but it’s not the only one pushing for large-scale high-temperature heat pumps for district heating. In Ger -
many today, several large-scale heat pump projects are actively aiming for district heat tempera -
tures below 100 °C. Additionally, 
strong partnerships are forming with the goal of going beyond dis-trict heating. For instance, chemi -cal giant BASF is partnering with Siemens Energy to investigate how high-temperature heat pumps can be used to decarbonize process heat generation at their headquarters in Ludwigshafen in Germany. 
Keeping all this in mind, it’s easy 
to see how this model of using large-scale high-temperature heat pumps can and should be widely adopted. As with any transition, of course, there are also caveats. The demand for district heating is un -
surprisingly higher in winter and lower in the summer. To balance this out, different solutions are conceivable. For instance, one can consider connecting district heat -
ing with more steady industrial heat demand (which is feasible due to high temperature heat pumps) or storage to match heat supply with demand. Regardless of these fac -
tors, in the case of Berlin and other pilot projects, the net saving of CO
2
emissions is still high enough to justify the effort. And based on the calculations, it’ll also be profitable within a few years.
Another important concern: If, as 
expected, more heat pumps, large and small, get installed, the overall electricity demand will go up. This would certainly pose a three-fold challenge. One: Energy should come from renewable sources to ensure the necessary move towards heat decarbonization. Two: As re -
newables are a fluctuating source of energy, energy storage solutions as well as power plants fired with clean fuels safeguarding baseload need to be in place. Three: As more electricity is consumed, grid stabil -
ity services need to be in place, re -
gardless of whether they’re rotating grid stabilizers, or smart controls for distributing energy.
Finally, today large-scale high 
temperature heat pumps are still at an economic disadvantage com -
pared to traditional gas-fired sys -
tems. But this can be expected to change especially with rising CO
2 
prices. But that’s not the only tool available. In Germany, for instance, the surcharge for electricity con -
sumers must be put an end to. Though surcharging was initially implemented for the purpose of funding renewable energy genera -
tion, this could soon become obso -
lete, as heat pumps are expected to amortize within a few years.
E
ssentially, Qwark3 has to offer 
quite a lot. As a model for the future, it shows how large-scale heat pumps can minimize heat wasted to the environment, thereby ulti -
m a t e l y  i n c r e a s i n g  t h e  o v e r a l l  e f fi -
ciency of an entire system. As will be seen at Potsdamer Platz, they al -
so enable the smart integration of heating and cooling. And the best part: it’s just one of many ways in -
dustrial heat pumps can help move towards a decarbonized future.
Dr. Christian Huettl
Business Owner Indus -
trial Heat Pump Solu-
tions, Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG, Erlangen, Germanysupport@siemens-energy.comwww.siemens-energy.com
Figure 2. Vattenfall’s cooling plant at the heart of the German capital 
Source: Vattenfall
