 
Unrestricted  © Siemens Energy, 2020      Siemens Energy is a  trademark licensed by Siemens AG.    
Information to the ‘Siemens Energy  Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy 
suppliers’, section ‘management system for occupational health and safety’  
This information shall help the suppliers to understand the expected requirements of the ‘reasonable 
Management systems for occupational health and safety’. The supplier’s relevance and responsibility in 
terms of occupational health and safety is dependent on the type of activities that its employees perform.  
A distinction is therefore made he re between enterprises that perform solely administrative/ 
management or advisory functions or purely sales - and marketing -related activities (category 1), and 
those that also manufacture products (systems, components, etc.) or in any other way process or 
rework products. It is also beneficial to assign these manufacturing enterprises to a category of SME 
(definition provided below). Enterprises with over 250 employees that operate in the processing or 
reworking industry are assigned to category 3.  
Microent erprises are assigned to category 1 irrespective of the industry in which they operate. It is not 
appropriate to insist on a formalized management system. It is sufficient for them to follow the local 
legal obligations. More advanced measures are required for category 2 enterprises. Category 3 
enterprises are expected to fulfill all aspects of an occupational health and safety management system,  
e.g. based on ISO 45001, and to document this fulfillment accordingly.  
Supplier 
Category  Industry / size of compa ny Requirements  of „reasonable 
management systems”  
1 Small and medium -sized enterprises that 
offer or perform solely administrative/ 
management, advisory or sales/marketing 
activities.  
Micro -enterprises that operate in the 
processing and reworking industry  According to local legislation  
2 Small and medium -sized enterprises that 
operate in the processing and reworking 
industry*)  
Enterprises with over 250 employees that 
offer or perform solely administrative/ 
management, advisory or sales/marketing 
activities**)  Further minimum requirements in addition to those 
described for category 1:  
• Written statement of commitment 
tooccupational health and safety by the 
company's management  
• Assessment of, and an undertaking to 
complywith, legal re quirements  
• Emergency planning and hazard 
preventionmeasures  
3 Enterprises with over 250 employees that 
operate in the processing and reworking 
industry  ISO 45001 certificate or an EMAS validation  
*) In specific individual cases it may be necessary to assign category 3 status to small and medium -sized enterprises which primarily perform high -risk 
activities (e.g. chemical or process -engineering operations, galvanizing operations, operations involving a high degree of mechanical production).  If it is 
unclear how a supplier is to be classified, or if Siemens takes the view that a supplier should be classified in category 3, occupational health and safety 
specialists must be consulted.  
**) In specific individual cases, a classification at category 3 may be necessary (e.g. in the case of large, multinational software companies, etc.). If it is u nclear 
how a supplier is to be classified, occupational health and safety specialists must be consulted.  
Reference to the S iemens Energy  Code of Conduct: Management System for Occupational Health and Safety; 20 20-09 Page 1 of 2  
 
Unrestricted  © Siemens Energy, 2020      Siemens Energy is a  trademark licensed by Siemens AG.    
 
Source: Definition of the European Commission https://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/sources/conferences/state -
aid/sme/smedefinitionguide_en.pdf  
Reference to t he Siemens Energy  Code of Conduct: Management System for Occupational Health and Safety; 20 20-09 Page 2 of 2  
