  
 
Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Construction Works of SIEMENS Energy Austria  GmbH   1 Issue  October 2021  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PURCHASE FOR CONSTRUCTION WORKS  
OF SIEMENS ENERGY AUSTRIA GMBH 
Issued October 2021  
 
 
1 Scope  
1.1 These Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Construction Works apply to all purchase orders for supplies and services ("Services") 
of SIEMENS Energy Austria GmbH and the companies affiliated to it ("SIEMENS") which, at least partly, cover Construction Works .  
2 Award of Contract  
2.1 These Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Construction Works shall become part of the contract as soon as a purchase order is accepted.  
3 Offer Stage  
3.1 The drawings which are enclosed to the specifications, or which may be inspected at the construction supervisor's office shall serve 
as information for the tender. If the Contractor ("CN") is of the opinion that amendments or additions to the specifications are 
necessary, it shall without undue delay inform S IEMENS thereof in writing. The CN shall neither modify nor amend the 
specifications.  
3.2 If the CN makes more favourable proposals in building, technical or economic terms regarding the implementation of individual  
items of the specifications, it shall include them as alternatives in the tender.  
3.3 The CN may enquire about the location of the building site, the local conditions, the possibilities to access or leave the building site 
etc. The CN may not claim later that he was not aware of the local conditions (in particular about the routes for delivery and 
collection). The CN is thus informed about the local conditions (in particular , the subsoil, vehicle access and storage facilities) and 
the scope of Servic es. The CN has inspected the description of Services and examined the terms and conditions and documents 
handed over to it and found them to be correct and consistent.  
3.4 The tender shall include an equipment list stating the connected wattage.  
3.5 The CN shall include a list of its subcontractors in the tender. Subject to substantiation, SIEMENS shall be entitled to require the 
exchange of individual subcontractors.  
3.6 The CN shall be bound by its tender for a period of 90 days after the date of submission.  
4 Prices and Scope of Works  
4.1 The agreed prices are fixed and shall be valid for the agreed performance period.  
4.2 If the main seat of the CN and the place of installation are within the EU, the place of installation shall be the contractual place of 
performance for all Services . All goods shall be shipped free to the place of installation/erection, packed, insured for transport and 
duty paid in accordance with DDP (place of installation) according to Incoterms® 20 20. CN bears the costs and risk of transport 
until the arrival and unloading of the goods . If the main seat of the CN and/or the place of installation is outside the EU, DPU  (place 
of installation) Incoterms® 2020 shall apply. The price includes assembly , costs of labour, non- wage labour costs, cleaning of the 
construction site, disposal of wastes, accommodation, and supply of all necessary documentation, such as , but not limited to,  
working drawings, journals, documentation of direct labour, shipping notes, time reports, inspection sheets, bill of quantities, final 
acceptance (by the authority), all K -Sheets ( “K-Blätter ”) in accordance with ÖNORM, bill of materials, order forms, other protocols. 
This documentation shall be according to SIEMENS’ requirements. Costs for delivery and packaging, as well as the costs for the 
transport insurance, which must include the unload process, are to be borne by the CN. The ownership of the documentati on shall 
transfer to SIEMENS upon delivery. CN grants  SIEMENS an exclusive and transferable exploitation right for all categories of use 
pursuant to the Austrian Copyrights Act ( Urheberrechtsgesetz ) in respect of all documentation necessary for execution of Services 
and resulting from such Services that is unlimited in time and place and excludes the CN itself from using such documentation 
without right of additional remuneration.  
4.3 Unit prices shall remain valid if Construction Works performed in full or in part at a unit price deviates from the Services originally 
intended in terms of scale unless  such Services are due to instructions by SIEMENS.  
4.4 If overtime is ordered to comply with deadlines or for other urgent reasons, such Service shall be deemed included in the price. 
Ancillary Services shall be deemed covered by the agreed price. Ancillary services mean Services explicitly agreed to be performed 
in addition to the agreed main Services or additional services to be performed pursuant to fair or commercial practice. Unless 
separately stated in the specifications, ancillary services to be performed by the CN shall inc lude, but not be limited to, all stati c or 
other calculations, general plans, detailed plans, site foreman's plans , and settlement schedules required for authorities, for the 
site management, and for the settlement of accounts. Such services shall be covered by the contract price. Any fees arising in 
connection with such calculations and drawings shall be borne by the CN. Construction drawings shall be submitted to SIEMENS 
for approval in three copies prior to the start of the Services . Such approval  shall not release the CN from its liability. The standards 
of Austrian Standards International – “Standardisierung und Innovation”  (previously Austrian Standards Institute)  shall apply to 
calculations and drawings.  
4.5 The CN guarantees the completeness of its Services by performing all Services  necessary for the correct, appropriate, and defect-
free performance of its tasks without being entitled to additional remuneration or to an extension of the performance period, even if this has not been explicitly agreed upon in the contract.  
4.6 If the CN has objections against instructions and/or parts provided (fabrics, materials, items) or against work performed by other contr actors, it shall immediately inform SIEMENS in writing about its concerns giving reasons for its objections. In other respects, 
ÖNORM B  2110 (as issued on 15
th Mar. 2013), point 6.2.4. "Duties to Inspect and Warn", applies accordingly.  
4.7 If the Services to be performed are connected to already existing components or facilities, the CN shall perform or verify the 
required measurements.  
4.8 Services of whatever nature performed by the CN without contract under whatever circumstances, except in case of imminent 
danger, will not be remunerated. Such s ervices shall be removed upon the Customer's request and at the CN's cost within the time 
limits specified by the Customer. The CN shall compensate SIEMENS for any damage incurred in this connection.  
  
 
Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Construction Works of SIEMENS Energy Austria  GmbH   2 Issue  October 2021  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  4.9 Any Service performed due to bad weather conditions ( e.g., rain, frost, snowfall) shall not entail additional costs.  
4.10 The scope of Services  to be performed by the CN shall also include the following points:  
• the CN bears the overall responsibility for its trade.  
• for the scope of Services  to be performed by the CN, staff including staff for planning, coordination, construction,  and 
supervisory tasks must be available in sufficient number for the required jobs at and at the required dates without additional 
costs to SIEMENS.   
• the CN guarantees and ensures that its construction manager does not work on another project during implementation of the 
contract without the written consent of SIEMENS.   
• the CN is appointed as the project manager ( Projektleiter ) for the purpose of the Construction Work Coordination Act 
(Bauarbeitenkoordinationsgesetz - BauKG ) and all building owner's duties laid down in the BauKG, in particular according to  
§ 3, § 4 (1), §  6, § 7 and § 8 BauKG, are herewith assigned to and expressly accepted by it. The CN must in particular  appoint  
a planning and a construction site coordinator and, in accordance with Section 8 BauKG, ensure that a so- called "document 
for subsequent work on the building” is drawn up.  
5 Implementation of Contract  
5.1 When placing an order, the contractor must determine the exact material quantities on request and inform SIEMENS, which may reserve the right to provide the material. In this case, the contract will be adjusted accordingly.  
5.2 The CN shall perform its Services  under its own responsibility, in accordance with the contract and the accepted technical rules as 
well as the applicable legal and administrative provisions.  
5.3 The CN shall prepare work drawings, the site installation plan, the list of equipment, the construction schedule and other 
construction documents and shall submit them to SIEMENS for inspection well ahead of the beginning of construction so that 
SIEMENS can review them within a period of at least 12 bank  working days. Any costs incurred by the CN in this connection are 
covered by the agreed remuneration.  
5.4 The required official permits for the use of roads, pavements and property not belonging to the owner of the building site, s hall be 
obtained by the CN at the CN's cost and any conditions imposed in this connection shall be fulfilled by the CN at no cost to SIEMENS.  
5.5 Construction site electricity  and construction water connections shall be supplied by the CN in connection with mobilisation of the 
site, unless otherwise provided in the specifications. Electricity and water charges shall be paid by the CN. The taps installed by 
the CN shall be maintained until completion of all Services and the right to use them shall be granted to all other firms working on 
the site. The CN shall ensure that no unauthorised use of electricity  is possible. Upon completion of the project, the electricity  and 
water connections for the building site shall be removed and the original condition restored upon the request of SIEMENS.  
5.6 The CN shall keep daily construction records and submit them for information to SIEMENS during normal business hours. Such 
information shall not constitute acceptance of any part of its contents by SIEMENS.  
5.7 During performance of the contractually agreed Services under the contract, the CN shall perform Services on hourly rates in 
addition to its scope of Services  upon request of the construction supervisor of SIEMENS.  
5.8 Services on hourly rates and overtime may only be performed subject to the prior approval of the construction supervisor of 
SIEMENS. Such Services will only be remunerated based on time sheets to be approved by the construction supervisor of 
SIEMENS, in which the work ers employed must be listed with their names and occupational details . These time sheets must be 
presented not later than the next day. 
5.9 For Services performed on hourly rates during contract execution, no pro rata foremen's or other supervisory hours may be 
invoiced. However, the CN shall not be released from its supervisory duties.  
5.10 After completion of the contract Services , the remuneration of foremen and other supervisory bodies working on hourly rates shall 
be agreed in advance of such Services with SIEMENS.  
5.11 At the end of each month, the CN shall hand over to SIE MENS a list of subcontractors scheduled to work on the construction site 
the following month as well as their work schedules.  
6 Insurance  
6.1 The CN shall maintain liability insurance for bodily  injuries and property  damages (incl. derived financial  losses) for the term of the 
contract and prove its validity to the Customer immediately after securing the contract and at any time later, upon the Customer's request. The sums insured under these policies shall be at leas t € 1,500,000.00 / three times  maximised, that means least 
€ 1,500,000.00 per claim respectively € 4,500,000.00 per insurance  period.  
6.2 SIEMENS may take out builder's risk insurance. In such case, the pro rata premium will be deducted from the CN's final inv oice.  
6.3 If SIEMENS does not take out builder's risk insurance, the CN shall take out a builder's risk insurance policy and prove its validity.  
7 Payment / Collateral  
7.1 Final  Invoice:  
In the case of projects for which payment in instalments has been agreed, t he final invoice will be paid within an inspection period 
of 90 days after receipt of all relevant settlement documents, quantity surveys, time sheets for scheduled hours etc.  
7.2 Security  Deposit:  
90 % of the inspected and accepted invoice amount will be paid in the case of invoices for payments on account and partial 
invoices. The remaining 10 % will be withheld as  security deposit which cannot be redeemed by cashless collateral. Unless used 
by SIE MENS, the security deposit shall be settled with the final invoice and released. The security deposit does not attract interest 
and serves as security for all claims SIEMENS may have against the CN  
  
 
Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Construction Works of SIEMENS Energy Austria  GmbH   3 Issue  October 2021  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  7.3 Retained Payment:  
SIEMENS is entitled to retain payment in an amount of 5 % (five percent) of the total contract value from the final invoice amount 
for the period of warranty. This retained payment is intended to secure any claims for damages or other claims of SIEMENS against 
the CN arising from or in connection with this contract. The retained payment may be substituted by an abstract, irrevocable bank 
guarantee issued at no cost to SIEMENS by an Austrian large bank accepted by SIEMENS with a maturity date falling six months 
after expiry of the warranty period and payable upon first demand. The currency in which the bank guarantee is issued shall be the 
same as that in which the contract value is denominated. If the value of a contract changes, the guaranteed values shall be adjusted 
accordingly. All costs and fees shall be covered by the guaranteed value.  
7.4 SIEMENS is only in default of payment if it fails to pay any amounts due, despite a request for payment from the CN.  
7.5 The CN may assign claims only with the prior written consent of SIEMENS. The CN may not retain Services due under the contract. 
This shall not apply if the counterclaims on which the right of retention is based have been left undisputed or if they have been 
legally established.  
7.6 Unless otherwise agreed, payments are to be made within 60 days net or within 30 days less a discount of 3 % at SIEMENS’ 
choice. SIEMENS is entitled to withhold payment until identified defects are remedied. For the duration of the warranty period, 
SIEMENS may withhold up to 10  % of the contract value as an interest- free guarantee deposit. Payment shall not be considered 
as an acceptance that the goods or services were delivered in accordance with the contract, nor as a waiver of any rights on the 
part of SIEMENS. The Seller bears bank charges incurred by the receiving bank. If, for any reason, an agreed security is not (or 
no longer) available, the Seller is obliged to provide SIEMENS with an equivalent one.  
8 Handing -over / Taking -over  
8.1 Partial Services shall be handed over at the interim dates (milestones) determined by SIEMENS, while formal transfer (acceptance) 
shall take place on the final date. The CN shall submit all documents and prove that the partial Services were performed in 
accordance with all  contractually agreed or normally expected characteristics and pursuant to the applicable technical and scientific 
rules and that they are free of defects. The CN shall notify SIEMENS of completion 14 days before the agreed interim date and 
allow SIEMENS to perform inspections. Any identified defects shall be remedied immediately upon request of SIEMENS and any costs resulting therefrom shall be borne by the CN. Upon completion of the last partial Services , the CN shall notify SIEMENS of 
the formal handi ng-over of the entire project 14 days before the contractually agreed final date. 
8.2 In this connection, the CN shall hand over all required documents, all correspondence, etc. and prove that the entire project has 
been carried out pursuant to the applicable technical rules and that it is free of defects. If defects become apparent during the taking- over procedure, the entire project will not be accepted by SIEMENS. In all cases, the CN shall file another application for 
acceptance of the projec t as soon as all objections raised by SIEMENS have been satisfied. If objections are not satisfied within 
the specified time- limit or in the agreed way, SIEMENS may, without prior notice, entrust a third party with the removal of defects 
at the cost and ri sk of the CN.  
8.3 The parties shall jointly draw up and sign the Acceptance Certificate and any apparent defects shall be stated therein. In the case of negligible defects, i.e., defects constituting a minor deviation from the contractually agreed performance and not impairing the 
intended use of the facilities, a period of 1 (one)  week shall be granted to rectify the defect. In this case, the Service supplied shall 
be deemed acce pted as soon as written proof of the timely rectification of defects has been provided.  
8.4 If it becomes apparent before the taking- over of the project, that Services performed are defective, or if other conditions laid down 
in the contract, in particular deadlines, are not complied with by the CN for any reason whatsoever, SIEMENS may terminate the 
contract with immediate effect, in whole or in part, by giving written notice and award a contract for the respective Services not yet 
performed to third parties. Any additional costs arising in this connection shall be borne by the CN, without prejudice to claims for 
payment of a penalty (as e.g., pursuant to point 4.2 of the General Terms and Conditions of Purchase of SIEMENS Energy Austria 
GmbH ). In the case of termination of the contract, SIEMENS may use the facilities, scaffolds, equipment, machines etc. for 
continuing the Services for reasonable compensation. The opening of proceedings over the CN’s assets  shall entitle SIEMENS to 
terminate the contract with immediate effect and to claim damages for non -performance.  
8.5 As soon as the project has been taken over, the Services performed by the CN shall be deemed accepted, the risk shall transfer 
and the warranty period start.  
8.6 The commissioning of individual parts of the facility or of the entire facility  before the aforementioned date shall not constitute 
acceptance for the purposes of point 8.4.  
9 Warranty and Damages  
9.1 The CN warrants that it will comply with all legal, administrative, or other provisions when performing the contract. It shall be liable 
for any consequences resulting from a violation thereof. The CN furthermore warrants that its S ervices have the contractually 
agreed features, that they comply with the accepted technical rules and that they are free of defects which would make them 
worthless or reduce their value or affect their suitability for the customary or agreed use.  
9.2 The warranty period is five years and starts on the date of acceptance; in the case of hidden defe cts the warranty period starts 
upon discovery. All defects established upon acceptance and all defects arising during the warranty period must be repaired by 
the CN immediately upon request at the CN's own expense. If the CN is not prepared to perform such repairs, SIEMENS shall be 
entitled without further notice to have the defect repaired by third parties at the cost and risk of the CN. The reasonableness of the 
period is to be appraised in the light of the impact of the defect on other specialist Services and shall therefore be determined by 
SIEMENS in the individual case.  
9.3 The CN and its staff as well as other agents (sub- contractors) shall be liable, within the scope of the applicable legal provisi ons 
and without prejudice to any penalties payable, for all damages caused to SIEMENS or third parties. The CN shall indemnify and hold SIEMENS harmless against any third- party claims.  
9.4 The CN shall be liable for compliance with all provisions concerning i ts employees, sub- contractors and suppliers and their 
employers (such as the Employment of Foreign Nationals Act  (Ausländerbeschäftigungsgesetz) ). The CN warrants that all 
employees working for it have the required permits and approvals and that they can be immediately presented in the case of si te 
inspections. The CN shall fully indemnify and hold SIEMENS harmless against any claims arising from the violation of these 
provisions.  
  
  
 
Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Construction Works of SIEMENS Energy Austria  GmbH   4 Issue  October 2021  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  10 Parts of the Contract  
10.1 The following documents and provisions shall govern the contractual relationship between the CN and SIEMENS in accordance 
with the hierarchy established hereinafter:  
a) the purchase order form . 
b) the specifications with the related drawings . 
c) these "Terms and Conditions for Construction Works of the SIEMENS Energy  Austria GmbH ". 
d) the "General Terms and Conditions of Purchase of the SIEMENS Energy  Austria GmbH", as amended. 
e) the "technical requirements for Construction Works" established by  Austrian Standards International - Standardisierung und 
Innovation (previously  Austrian Standards Institute ) and the engineering standards committees as applicable.  
f) the CN's tender . 
11 Safety, Health, and E nvironmental P rotection  
11.1 The CN shall ensure that the safety, health, and environmental regulations applicable at the respective premises or at the respective 
construction site of SIEMENS are complied with by the CN and its agents. The CN shall release SIEMENS from all claims arising  
from non -compliance with these regulations. Storage of construction materials shall be at the risk of the CN. The installation of site 
huts and the selection of their location require the approval of SIEMENS. The construction site and/or the installation site shall 
always be maintained in proper  condition and cleaned up after completion of Services . The CN shall be responsible for adequately 
fencing and securing the construction site.  
12 Consideration of SIEMENS P roducts  
12.1 The CN shall perform its Services without specific regard to products of SIEMENS. By way of exception, the CN shall use, as far 
as possible, the products of SIEMENS and of its affiliates when working on buildings used by SIEMENS.  
13 Use of T ools, Moulds , Samples,  and C onfidentiality  
13.1 Any tools, moulds, samples, models, profiles, drawings, standard specification sheets, printing templates , and calibres provided 
by the Customer, as well as any objects derived therefrom may not be passed on to third parties nor used for other than the agreed 
purposes without the written approval of the Customer. They shall be safeguarded against unauthorised access or use. Without prejudice to further rights, the Customer may request their handing over if the CN violates these obligations.  
14 Occupational Health and Safety  
14.1 The Seller is obliged to comply with all legal requirements regarding the health and safety of its employees. It must ensure that the 
health and safety of its personnel as well as the personnel from his dir ect or indirect subcontractors employed to perform the 
Services  and all other persons who are entitled to stay in the work area, is protected.  
If the s ervices  are to be performed on premises of SIEMENS or on construction sites on behalf of SIEMENS, additional safeguard 
instructions as described in the document S E-A111e “EHS instruction sheet for employees of external companies"  (SGU -Merkblatt 
für Angehörige von Fremdfirmen (en))  (
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/company/about/supply -chain-
management/supplier -information.html ) apply. 
14.2 Before the commencement of the Works, CN shall provide Siemens with a written risk assessment that a) analyses  all potential 
hazards for the health and safety of the p ersonnel arising out of the Works and b) determines measures to eliminate such hazards.  
14.3 CN shall ensure that all personnel take part in site- specific safety training and receive the appropriate personal protection 
equipment before starting work on the site. CN shall ensure that the personnel make use of the personal protection equipment in 
the appropriate manner and that such equipment is always maintained in good working order . 
14.4 Siemens reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to bar any personnel fr om the site and/or to suspend the execution of the Works 
for security, health, and safety reasons, at any time without any liability whatsoever.  
14.5 CN shall appoint a competent person as its representative for environmental, health and safety (“CN EHS Repres entative”) and 
shall ensure that the CN EHS representative takes part in safety discussions arranged by SIEMENS from time to time. 
14.6 CN shall regularly monitor compliance with statutory and contractual health and safety provisions by performing safety tours on the 
site. In due time before a safety tour, CN shall invite SIEMENS to participate in the tour. If the CN discovers non- compliance with 
health and safety provisions, it shall restore compliance without undue delay and advise SIEMENS of findings and of the status of 
the corrective actions. 
14.7 Upon SIEMENS’  request, CN shall promptly grant SIEMENS access  to all documents related to health and safety connected with 
the works . 
14.8 The following events must be reported to the corresponding safety department, on site management or the SIEMENS’ person in 
charge immediately:  
i. Fatality  
ii. Lost Time Case (LTC)  
iii. Accident without Loss of Working Hours  
iv. Near Miss with High Risk  
The accidents and near misses listed here must be reported to SIEMENS and the incident has to be investigated by the CN. The 
CN is requested to: 
i. Report the incident to SIEMENS.  
ii. Execute a root cause analysis of the incident immediately and unasked. 
iii. Take adequate measures to ensure the prevention of comparable incidents in the future.  
iv. Determine a time period for the implementation of these measures.  
v. Provide SIEMENS with a wri tten, sufficiently detailed report stating the root cause of the incident, the determined 
measures, and the time period of their implementation. 
Dangerous areas that have caused an accident or could have caused a near miss, must immediately be 
i. Secured,  
  
 
Terms and Conditions of Purchase for Construction Works of SIEMENS Energy Austria  GmbH   5 Issue  October 2021  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  ii. Documented, and 
iii. The safety hazard has to be removed. 
14.9 In the event SIEMENS produces a safety and health document for the site (“EHS Plan”) SIEMENS will provide CN with a copy of 
the EHS Plan. The CN shall confirm receipt thereof in writing and comply with the regulations contained therein. The same shall 
apply to updates of the EHS Plan which SIEMENS may produce as it deems necessary. CN shal l ensure that its direct and indirect 
subcontractors contracted to perform the Works commit themselves to the EHS Plan and its updates.  
14.10  In addition to any other rights SIEMENS may have, in the event of CN’s material or repeated failure to comply with the statutory or 
contractual health and safety provisions, including the provisions of this Article and the provisions of the EHS Plan, SIEMENS may 
terminate this Agreement without any liability whatsoever, after providing CN with a reasonable period of time within which to 
remedy the failure. 