   
 
Terms and Conditions for Product Business - Siemens Energy Austria  GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
1/10 
International Terms and Conditions  for Product Business  
 
1. General  
1.1 The scope, quantity, quality, functionality and technical specifications of any goods, equipment, documentation, 
software, work or services , including Digital Services,  to be provided by Siemens Energy (collectively referred to 
as "Supplies ") are exclusively defined as the case may be either in the order confirmation issued by Siemens 
Energy or the Contract signed by the Customer and Siemens Energy.  
 
1.2 “Digital Service ” or “ Digital Services ” shall mean any and all deliveries and services as further described in this 
Contract and the respective Addenda hereto. Digital Services may be comprised of hardware parts, software 
and/or Applications. “Application” shall mean the (i) software, (ii) web  pages, (iii) connectivity, (iv) infrastructure 
and (v) hardware being located outside of Customer ’s site, all of them as used by Siemens Energy in order to 
provide the Digital Services.  
 
1.3 The offer letter from Siemens Energy together with these terms and conditions and those other documents ex-
pressly identified in the offer letter as forming part of the contract shall together constitute the entire agreement 
between the parties (the " Contract "). Any terms and conditions of the Customer shall apply only where expressly 
accepted in writing by Siemens Energy.  
 
2. Rights of Use  
2.1 Except as expressly otherwise agreed in this Contract all intellectual and industrial property rights in the Supplies, 
in all documents provided by Siemens Energy in connection with this Contract (the “ Documents ”) and in all 
software, hardware, know how (“ IPR”), and other things provided with or as part of the Supplies and the Docu-
ments shall be the exclusive property of and vest in Siemens Energy. The Customer shall not reverse engineer, 
decompile, or reproduce the Supplies or parts thereof and shall ensur e that third parties will not reverse engineer, 
decompile or reproduce the Supplies or parts thereof in each case to the extent mandatory law does not prohibit 
such limitation.  
 
2.2 The Customer may use the Documents unmodified and to the extent necessary for operation and routine mainte-
nance of the Supplies by the Customer’s own personnel, unless explicitly agreed otherwise in writing by Siemens 
Energy.  
 
2.3 If the Supplies include Siemens Energy software, such software is licensed under the license terms contained in 
the software documentation, the software itself or in the attached  (Siemens Energy Software -) license terms (in 
each case the “ Applicable License Conditions ”), which shall prevail over this Clause 2. The software is issued 
in object code without source codes. The license hereunder only grants the non -exclusive right to use the software 
as described in the Applicable License Conditions or, if there are no applicable license terms, for the purpose of 
operation and routine maintenance of the Supplies.  
 
2.4 The Supplies may include third party software. Insofar as specific license terms of the third -party licensor  (e.g. 
EULA)  apply, Siemens Energy will provide such license terms together with the Supplies. The Customer shall 
comply with such third -party license terms.  These alone apply to the liability of the respective licensor towards 
the Customer.  
 
2.5 Insofar as the software contains Open Source Software (“ OSS ”), Siemens Energy will provide the applicable OSS 
license terms together with the Supplies. The OSS license terms shall prevail over this Contract. Details regarding 
any third -party software and OSS contained in the Supplies are available in the software documentation (e.g. 
README_OSS).  
 
2.6 Insofar as Open Source Software is included in the Supplies , such Open Source Software is listed in the Re-
adme_OSS file of the Software. The Customer is entitled to use the Open Source Software in accordance with 
the respective applicable license conditions of the Open Source Software, which shall prevail over thi s Contract. 
The Open Source Software license conditions shall have priority also in relation to the proprietary Siemens Energy 
components insofar as the Open Source Software license conditions gran t the Customer certain rights of use on 
the basis of the connection of OSS components with proprietary Siemens Energy components. Siemens Energy 
shall make available to the Customer, at the request of the Customer, the Open Source Software source code in 
return for payment of a fee to compensate for expenses insofar as the license conditions of the Open Source 
Software require such release of the source code . 
   
 
Terms and Conditions for Product Business - Siemens Energy Austria  GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
2/10 
2.7 The rights granted in Clause 2 shall be transferable to a third party only together with the transfer of ownership 
of all of the Supplies to that third party.  
 
2.8 Without prejudice to the Customer’s intellectual property rights and subject to compliance with applicable law, 
Siemens Energy and its Affiliates may for its own business purposes collect, use, modify, and copy any data 
received in connection with the Supp lies. Any legal obligations regarding personal data shall remain unaffected.  
 
3. Prices and Terms of Payment  
3.1 Unless agreed otherwise in writing, prices exclude packing, freight, insurance and any other additional charges 
(such as storage, inspections by third parties). The price payable by the Customer for the Supplies under this 
Contract shall be referred to in this Contract as the “ Contract Price ”. 
 
3.2 The Contract Price is exclusive of any indirect taxes (such as property, license, sales, use, value added or similar 
tax) and/or any duties, customs or public charges related to the Contract. The Customer agrees to pay or to 
reimburse Siemens Energy for an y taxes, customs, duties or other public charges levied on Siemens Energy in 
relation to the Supplies. All payments shall be made to Siemens Energy’s bank account without deduction (e.g. 
deduction of withholding tax) within 30 days after issuance of the in voice. If the Customer is required to make a 
deduction by law, the sum payable shall be increased so that Siemens Energy receives a net amount equal to 
the amount it would have received without such deduction. The Customer shall provide to Siemens Energy t ax 
receipts from the relevant tax authorities in connection with the payments in due course.  
 
3.3 Without prejudice to any other rights it may have, Siemens Energy may charge interest at 9 percentage points 
above the current base lending rate of the European Central Bank on any overdue payments.  
 
3.4 Each party must pay all sums that it owes to the other party under this Contract free and clear without any set -
off, counterclaim, deduction or withholding of any kind, save as agreed otherwise in writing or as may be required 
by law.  
 
4. Delivery Times, Delay  
4.1 Any agreed dates in respect of the Supplies or any part of them shall be extended by a reasonable period of time 
if and to the extent that Siemens Energy is delayed or impeded in the performance of its obligations by any third 
party or by the failure of th e Customer to perform its obligations. This includes without limitation the delivery of 
required documents (such as necessary permits and approvals), timely performance of any work to be undertaken 
by the Customer or any third party appointed by the Custom er, and compliance with the terms of payment.  
 
4.2 Siemens Energy may, if it is reasonable to do so, deliver the Supplies in stages or instalments and shall be entitled 
to invoice for the Supplies on a corresponding basis.  
 
4.3 If Siemens Energy does not meet the agreed final delivery or final completion date solely due to the fault of 
Siemens Energy, the Customer shall be entitled to liquidated damages amounting to 0.5% of the price of the 
delayed part of the Supplies per each c ompleted week of delay, in which the Customer suffered loss as a result 
of such delay. Liquidated damages payable in case of delay shall be limited to 5% of the price of the delayed part 
of the Supplies.  
 
4.4 Any other liability of Siemens Energy and any claims, rights, and remedies of the Customer in case of delay 
except as expressly stipulated in this Clause 4 and in Clause 15.2a)  below shall be excluded, to the extent per-
missible by law.  
 
4.5 If the Customer, the Customer’s contractors, or any other third party put in charge by the Customer causes a 
delay to the provision of the Supplies, the Customer shall reimburse Siemens Energy all additional costs and 
expenses incurred due to such delay.  
 
4.6 If the Supplies fail to meet any guaranteed performance figures in the Contract solely due to the fault of Siemens 
Energy, Siemens Energy shall be given additional reasonable time to achieve such figures by carrying out at its 
own expense any work which Si emens Energy considers necessary. If, after completion of the work and all further 
performance test, the performance figures are not reached, the Customer shall be entitled to liquidated damages 
at such rate as may be specified in the Contract,  but which s hall in no event exceed 5% of the price of the part of 
the Supplies failing to meet the agreed figures. The payment of liquidated damages shall be the Customer’s only 
remedy for and in connection with the non -achievement of any performance figures required  under the Contract.  
   
 
Terms and Conditions for Product Business - Siemens Energy Austria  GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
3/10 
4.7 The parties acknowledge the worldwide outbreak of the coronavirus disease  (COVID -19), which is likely to affect 
the execution of the Contract. The parties agree that Siemens Energy shall be entitled to reasonable adjustments 
of the agreed dates for the performance of the Supplies as well as to reimbursement of costs to the extent the 
delay and the costs are caused directly or indirectly by the outbrea k of the coronavirus disease .  
 
4.8 The parties acknowledge that there is an uncertain political and security situation in the world, in particular due 
to the invasion of Ukraine (“ Uncertain Situation ”), which effects are difficult to foresee at the time of Contract 
signing and which can directly and indirectly affect the execution of th e Contract, including, but not limited to, the 
availability of certain equipment, commodities, metals, and materials as well as the availability of transportation 
means and services and supply of gas. In the l ight of the above, the parties agree that Siemens Energy shall be 
entitled to reasonable adjustments of the delivery times and/or the Contract Price to the extent any delay and 
costs are caused directly or indirectly by the above -mentioned Uncertain Situation and any related cons equences.  
 
5. Transfer of Risk and Title  
5.1 Risk of damage to or loss of any part of the Supplies shall pass to the Customer upon delivery.  
 
5.2 The Supplies shall be deemed delivered if and when the Customer fails to accept the delivery of the Supplies 
without cause. In such case, parts, which are part of the Supplies, can be stored and insured at the risk and 
expense of the Customer and any payme nt shall become due. The same consequences shall apply on the sched-
uled date of delivery if the dispatch is postponed for reasons attributable to the Customer.  
 
5.3 Title in any part of the Supplies shall remain with Siemens Energy until Siemens Energy has received full payment 
for that part of the Supplies.  
 
6. Force Majeure  
6.1 A “Force Majeure Event”  means any event which is beyond the reasonable control of a party or its subcontrac-
tors, which could not have been prevented by good industry practice and which results in a party, its Affiliates or 
any of its sub -contractors or sub -suppliers (the “ Affected Party ”) being unable to perform or being delayed in 
performing in whole or in part its obligations under this Contract. Force Majeure Events include, among others, 
acts of war, riot, civil commotion, terrorism, natural disaster, e pidemic, strikes, lock -outs, attacks on Siemens 
Energy’s IT systems (such as virus attacks, hacker attacks, failure or unavailability of telecommunications net-
works, unavailability of power, attacks by malware, exploitation of Vulnerabilities and other att acks on contract -
relevant IT systems and operations centres  e.g. hacker attacks), non -issuance of licenses, permits, or approvals, 
or any other act or failure to act by any public authority, or embargos or any other trade sanctions.    
 
6.2 If a Force Majeure Event occurs, the Affected Party will be deemed not to be in breach of its obligations under 
the Contract for so long as and to the extent necessary to overcome the effects of the Force Majeure Event.  
 
6.3 The Affected Party shall notify the other party as soon as reasonably practicable of the Force Majeure Event and 
of its affected obligations.  
 
6.4 If one or more Force Majeure Events and their effect lasts for a period of 180 days in aggregate either party may 
terminate the Contract by giving to the other a written notice of termination with regard to the part of the Supplies 
not yet delivered . With regard to the part of the Supplies not yet delivered, Siemens Energy shall be entitled to 
reimbursement from the Customer of its unavoidable costs related to such termination.  
 
7. Obligations of the Customer  
7.1 The Customer shall apply for and obtain all necessary licenses, permits and approvals required for commission-
ing, acceptance and use of the Supplies.  
 
7.2 In order to receive the Digital Services, the Customer shall take all measures required to receive the Digital 
Services, including without limitation, the proper installation, operation and maintenance of on -site equipment (i.e. 
control and communication system, network components) and provision of data connectivity.  
 
7.3 The Customer is solely responsible for the conception, implementation, and maintenance of a holistic, state -of-
the-art security concept to protect its enterprise with all plants, systems, machines, and networks, for which the 
Supplies are provided, against  Cyberthreats. " Cyberthreat " means any circumstance or event with the potential 
to adversely impact the Customer’s plants, systems, machines, and networks (including the Supplies) via 
   
 
Terms and Conditions for Product Business - Siemens Energy Austria  GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
4/10 
unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure and/or modification of information, denial of service attacks or com-
parable scenarios. Such concept should inter alia include:  
a) Access to Customer's premises and to its plants, systems, machines and networks must be restricted to where 
absolutely necessary.  
b) Installation of Updates as soon as they are available in accordance with the installation instructions given by 
Siemens Energy and using the latest version. This might require Customer’s purchase of Upgrades of hard-
ware and software, and patch management services , but subject to a prior check of the compatibility and to 
the impact on the functionality of the whole plant or system. Use of versions that are no longer supported 
and/or failure to install the latest Updates may increase Customer’s exposure to Cy berthreats.  
“Update " means any software -version which primarily contains  
i) corrections of software defects („Bug Fix“),  
ii) corrections of vulnerabilities („Patches“) and/or  
iii) minor enhancements or improvements of the Supplies,  
but does not contain significant new features.  
 "Upgrade " means any hardware/software which primarily contains major enhancements of the Supplies  and 
new features.  
c) Complying with security advisories, implementing other related measures, published, among others, under 
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/company/about/cybersecurity/cert -services.html . 
d) Regular Vulnerability scanning and testing of the hardware and/or software of the Supplies, provided however, 
that (i) it is not performed while the components are in use, and (ii) the system configuration and security level 
of any parts of the components s hall not be modified. If Vulnerabilities are identified by the Customer, the 
Customer shall notify Siemens Energy in writing within a reasonable time. Customer shall cooperate with 
Siemens Energy and  must not disclose the Vulnerability without the prior w ritten consent from Siemens En-
ergy. 
e) Implementation and maintaining a state -of-the-art password policy . 
f) Connecting the plants, systems, machines and networks, for which the Supplies are provided, to an enterprise 
network or the internet must only be done where absolutely necessary and only when appropriate security 
measures (e.g. firewalls, network client aut hentication and/or network segmentation) are in place and the 
guidelines of the respective manufacturers are fulfilled . 
g) Minimizing the risk of a malware infection (e.g. through contents of USB -storage media and other connected 
removable storage devices) through malware scanners with approved compatibility by the manufacturer or 
other appropriate protective measures . 
h) Raising the awareness of the Customer's personnel towards dangers associated with Cyberthreats. This also 
includes regular trainings.  
 
„Vulnerability " means a weakness in Supplies  that could be exploited to permit unauthorized access, use, or 
modification to such Supplies  or computing environment.  
 
7.4 The Customer acknowledges that Supplies on site may generate hazardous waste as defined in the applicable 
laws. The Customer shall, at its expense, provide containers complying with all legal and regulatory requirements 
and shall handle, store and dispose of hazardous waste in accordance with the applicable laws.  
 
 The Customer shall inform Siemens Energy prior to the execution of any Supplies on site about  potential health 
or safety risks which may originate from the Customer’s plant or equipment or may exist at Customer’s site, 
including , but not limited to hazardous materials which may exist in addition to those already specifically ad-
dressed in the Contract or which may be generated or released in connection with the Supplies on site (“ HS 
Risk ”). 
 
 If a potential HS Risk arises, then, without limiting its other rights and remedies, Siemens Energy may suspend 
its work until the respective HS Risk has been permanently eliminated, or protective and preventive measures 
required by Siemens Energy have bee n taken by the Customer.  
 
 The Customer shall reimburse Siemens Energy all additional costs incurred by any special protective and pre-
ventive measures as deemed necessary by Siemens Energy to deal with the existing HS Risk as well as costs 
resulting from the suspension. The contract ual schedules and time limits shall be adjusted accordingly.  
 
 The Customer is responsible for the health and safety conditions on site, shall comply with any applicable laws 
as well as the laws, regulations and requirements of the European Union, and shall implement and conduct a risk 
assessment of potential hazards for the health and safety of the personnel on site, measures to control such risks 
   
 
Terms and Conditions for Product Business - Siemens Energy Austria  GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
5/10 
(including suitable safety and working regulations for the work on site, emergency and evacuation procedures, 
and effective medical aid systems and resources), and potentially necessary corrective measures.  
 
 Prior to their performance of any activity on site, Customer shall provide Siemens Energy’s and its sub -suppliers’ 
personnel with the required safety and working regulations and related trainings.  
 
 If Siemens Energy provides Customer with a safety and health document for the site, the Customer shall comply 
with the regulations contained therein, including provided updates.  
 
7.5 The Customer shall be responsible for the collection and disposal of the waste electrical and electronic equipment 
and industrial batteries at the end of their use phase at its own expense according to the law at the place of use.  
 
7.6 If Supplies are delayed due to circumstances for which Siemens Energy is not responsible, the Customer shall 
pay Siemens Energy all additional costs arising from such delay.  
 
8. Changes and Variations  
8.1 If applicable laws, rules and regulations, engineering standards and codes of practice, decisions or guidance  
issued by courts or public authorities are amended or added to after the date of Contract signature, Siemens 
Energy shall be entitled to an adjustment of the Contract, including inter alia an adjustment of the Contract Price 
to reflect any additional cost s to be incurred by Siemens Energy, the time schedules and scope of Supplies, as 
necessary in order to compensate for any adverse effects or additi onal requirements deriving from such changes.  
 
 Siemens Energy shall comply only with those engineering standards and codes as listed in the technical specifi-
cations at the date of the Contract  signature . In the event that, at any time, mandatory local codes or standards 
in the country where the project is located stipulate more stringent or onerous requirements with regard to the 
Supplies, the Customer is obliged to inform Siemens Energy accordingly and the Customer shall (i) request a 
quotation from Siemens Energy specifying the effect of those more s tringent requirements on the total Contract 
Price, on the agreed dates for delivery of the Supplies, the payment and any other provision under the Contract, 
and (ii) shall enter into a Variation in accordance with this Clause 8 based on such quotation.  
 
8.2 The names, functions, and the appearance, of the Digital Services and the Applications reflect the current devel-
opment status as of the date of Contract signature . Siemens Energy shall be entitled to issue at its discretion 
updates, upgrades and/ or changes to the Digital Services and/ or the Applications, e.g. in order to improve the 
Digital Services. Siemens Energy shall inform the Customer about any major update , upgrades and changes. If 
such updates, upgrades or changes are subject to additional charges , it will only be effective after additional 
agreement between the parties.  
 
8.3 Without prejudice to the parties’ right to request variations, Siemens Energy may at any time make changes to 
the Supplies without the Customer’s prior approval, provided such changes by Siemens Energy do not adversely 
affect the agreed operability, functionality or technical characteristics of the  Supplie s. Siemens Energy shall not 
be entitled to any additional payment, extension of time, or other adjustment of the Contract in respect of such 
changes . 
 
9. Defects Liability  
9.1 In this Contract, and subject to Clause 9.2, a defect shall mean any non -conformity of the Supplies with the 
express terms of this Contract resulting from circumstances existing in the Supplies at the time of the transfer of 
risk to the Customer (“ Defects ”). 
 
9.2 In particular, the following shall not be Defects:  
a) normal wear and tear, non -conformity resulting from excessive strain ; 
b) non-conformity resulting from faulty or negligent handling , non-compliance with instructions or recommenda-
tions in operation or maintenance manuals and other documents;  
c) installation, erection, modification, commissioning, or pre -commissioning, in each case not carried out by Sie-
mens Energy ;  
d) non-reproducible software errors, furthermore, software defects shall only be deemed to be a defect if the 
defect occurs in the software version that is most current at the time;  or 
e) defects which do not significantly impair the use of the respective Supplies.  
 
   
 
Terms and Conditions for Product Business - Siemens Energy Austria  GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
6/10 
9.3 The Customer shall immediately inspect the Supplies upon delivery and shall immediately  notify Siemens Energy 
in writing of any Defects without undue delay. The Customer’s claims in respect of defects shall be excluded for 
any apparent defects if the Customer has failed to do so.  
 
 Upon such written notification, Siemens Energy shall, at its option, remedy a Defect by repair, replacement, or 
re-performance. Siemens Energy shall be given a reasonable period of time and opportunity to remedy the Defect. 
For this purpose, the Customer s hall grant Siemens Energy working access to the non -conforming Supplies, shall 
undertake any necessary disassembly and reassembly, and shall provide access to operation and maintenance 
data, all at no charge to Siemens Energy. Upon Siemens Energy’s reques t, the Customer shall ensure that the 
title to the replaced parts/items shall pass to Siemens Energy.  
 
 The Customer shall be responsible for the customs clearance in the country where the Supplies are delivered 
and for the further transport from the places of delivery for all equipment necessary to remedy the Defect. Upon 
request of the Customer, Siemens En ergy shall be obliged to reimburse the Customer for all such customs duties 
(if any) against documentary proof and invoice.  
 
9.4 Unless otherwise agreed, the defects liability period for any part of the Supplies is 12 months. It starts at the date 
of transfer of risk.  
 
 For replaced or repaired parts of the Supplies, the defects liability period is 6 months from the date of replacement 
or repair, if the original defects liability period for the Supplies expires earlier. In any event, the defects liability 
period shall end  no later than 24 months from the beginning of the original defects liability period.  
 
9.5 The Customer is responsible for the conception, implementation , and maintenance of a holistic, state -of-the-art 
security concept according 7.3. Siemens Energy does not warrant or guarantee that the Supplies  will be secure 
from Cyberthreats and does not contain any Vulnerabilities.  
 
9.6 If software is defective, Siemens Energy shall only be obliged to provide the Customer with an updated version 
of the software in which the Defect has been remedied when Siemens Energy can be reasonably expected to 
provide such updated version or, if Siemens Energy is only licensee, such updated version is reasonably available 
from Siemens Energy’s licensor. If the software has been modified or  individually developed by Siemens Energy, 
Siemens Energy shall in addition provide the Customer with a workaround or other interim error correcting solution 
until the provision of an updated version of the software in which the Defect is remedied, if such workaround or 
interim solution is feasible at reasonable expense and if otherwise the Customer’s business operations would be 
stopped or substantially impeded.  
 
9.7 If Siemens Energy carries out remedial work and it is ultimately not established that there was a Defect, the 
Customer shall pay Siemens Energy for such remedial work including error diagnosis.  
 
9.8 Any other liability of Siemens Energy and any claims, rights and remedies of the Customer in case of Defects of 
the Supplies shall be excluded except as expressly stipulated in this Clause 9 or in Clause 15.2b) , provided that 
a material breach shall only exist if Siemens Energy failed at least 3 times in remedying the Defect. All warranties, 
representations, conditions, and all other terms of any kind whatsoever implied by statute or common law are, to 
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, excluded from this Contract.  
 
10. Intellectual Property Rights  
10.1 If a third party asserts legitimate claims against the Customer that the Supplies infringe an IPR owned by such 
third party, then subject to the following provisions of this Clause 10, Siemens Energy shall, at its option and 
expense, either:  
a) obtain a right to use the relevant IPR in connection with the Supplies; or  
b) modify the Supplies so as not to infringe the relevant IPR; or  
c) replace the infringing part of the Supplies.  
 
 If, in the opinion of Siemens Energy, none of the foregoing is reasonably possible, Siemens Energy may take 
back the relevant part of the Supplies and reimburse the price for such part.  
 
10.2 Siemens Energy’s obligations in Clause 10.1 are subject to the following conditions:  
a) the Customer has immediately notified Siemens Energy in writing of the third party’s claim and furnished 
Siemens Energy with a copy of each communication, notice or other action relating to the alleged infringement;  
   
 
Terms and Conditions for Product Business - Siemens Energy Austria  GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
7/10 
b) the Customer does not acknowledge an infringement and provides Siemens Energy with the authority, infor-
mation and assistance reasonably required by Siemens Energy to defend or settle such claim; and  
c) Siemens Energy is given sole control of the defence (including the right to select counsel), and the sole right 
to settle such claim.  
 
 If the Customer ceases to use the Supplies or any relevant portion thereof, it shall notify the third party in writing 
that this cessation of use is not an admission of IPR infringement.  
 
10.3 Any claims of the Customer shall be excluded if the Customer (including its agents, employees or contractors) is 
responsible for the IPR infringement. The Customer shall be deemed responsible for the claimed IPR infringement 
if, without limitation, it was caused by (i) specific demands of the Customer, (ii) use of the Supplies for a purpose 
or in a manner not foreseeable by Siemens Energy, (iii) a modification of the Supplies by the Customer, or (iv) 
use of the Supplies in connection with other equipment.  
 
10.4 All rights, titles, interests and know -how in and to the Digital Services and the Applications and any parts and 
every improvement or further development thereof, other than those expressly granted herein, shall remain wholly 
vested in Siemens Energy or it s third party suppliers and/ or licensors.  
 
10.5 This Clause 10 sets forth Siemens Energy’s entire liability for infringement of third party IPRs. Any other claims, 
rights, and remedies of the Customer shall be excluded.  
 
11. Liability  
11.1 Unless explicitly stipulated in this Contract, this Clause 11 shall exclusively govern the liability of Siemens Energy 
for damages, costs and expenditures, regardless of the legal theory upon which it is based, including, but not 
limited to liability in Contract, in tort (including negligence), misrepresentation, in demnity, under warranty or oth-
erwise.  
 
11.2 Siemens Energy shall be liable for bodily injuries and for intentional acts or omissions pursuant to the applicable 
law. 
 
11.3 Siemens Energy’s total liability, whether pursuant to any indemnity or in contract, tort (including negligence and 
breach of statutory duty) or otherwise arising by reason of or in connection with the Contract shall not exceed for 
loss of or damage to Cust omer’s property the lesser of  
 
(i) the Contract Price ; 
(ii) Customer’s property Construction/Erection All Risks insurance deductible ; or  
(iii) € 250,000 € per event with an aggregate limit of 2 events per calendar year.  
 
 Siemens Energy’s total aggregate liability arising out of or in connection with this Contract shall not exceed the 
Contract Price  or 1,000,000 € whichever is lesser .  
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the same shall apply to damage or loss caused to the  Supplies  by Defects or remedial 
work carried out by Siemens Energy after delivery to or acceptance of the  Supplies  by Customer, as the case 
may be.  
 
 Siemens Energy shall in no event be liable, whether pursuant to any indemnity or in contract, tort (including 
negligence and statutory duty) or otherwise for loss of profit or revenue, loss of production, interruption of opera-
tions or loss of use, cost of capital, loss of interest, loss of information and/or data, for claims arising from Cus-
tomer’s contracts with third parties, loss of hydrocarbons, loss of power, cost of purchased or replacement power, 
or for any indirect or consequential damage.  
 
11.4  Any limitations of liability set forth in this Contract shall also apply for the benefit of Siemens Energy’s Affiliates, 
subcontractors, employees, agents or any other person acting for Siemens Energy.  
 
11.5  If the Customer is not or shall not be the sole end user and ultimate owner of the Supplies  or is procuring them 
for the benefit of any kind of joint venture, the Customer shall , in every contract in connection with the Supplies 
or parts thereof with the end user, ultimate owner or joint venture participant obtain written assurances from its 
contracting party of limitation and exclusions in favour of Siemens Energy, Siemens Energ y’s directors as well as 
Siemens Energy’s employees, agents, suppliers an d subcontractors (the “ Protected Entities ”) at least equivalent 
   
 
Terms and Conditions for Product Business - Siemens Energy Austria  GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
8/10 
to those afforded to contractor, under the Contract. Customer shall indemnify and hold harmless Protected Enti-
ties against any liabilities incurred by Protected Entities in excess of those that would have been incurred had the 
Customer complied with its obligations arising out of the preceding clause .  
 
11.6 Any and all liability of Siemens Energy under this Contract shall cease with the expiry of the defects liability period 
of the Supplies.  
 
12. Assignment  
12.1 The Customer may not assign this Contract or any part thereof without Siemens Energy’s prior written approval.  
 
12.2 Siemens Energy may transfer, assign, or novate the Contract or any part of it to an affiliated company ( “Affili-
ate”), being Siemens Energy itself and any corporation, company, or other legal entity that is affiliated to Siemens 
Energy pursuant to Sec. 189a Austrian Business Code (Unternehmensgesetzbuch – UGB) .  
 
12.3 Siemens Energy shall further be entitled to assign the whole Contract or a part of it to any third party, in the event 
of a sale or other transfer of the business or a part of the business of Siemens Energy to a third party.  
 
12.4  Siemens Energy may sub -contract the fulfilment of the Supplies.  
 
13. Confidentiality  
13.1 The parties shall use any documents, know -how, data or other information provided by the other party (" Infor-
mation ") exclusively for the purpose of this Contract and keep the same confidential subject to the following. The 
parties may disclose Information to employees of the receiving party and to third parties who reasonably need to 
know such Information for the purp ose of the Contract provided such employees and third parties are bound by 
equivalent confidentiality obligations. The party disclosing Inform ation shall be held liable for a breach of such 
obligations by its employees or a third party.  
 
13.2 This confidentiality obligation shall not apply to Information which : 
a) is or becomes part of the public domain other than by fault of the receiving party;  
b) is disclosed to the receiving party in good faith by a third party who is entitled to make such disclosure;  
c) is developed independently by the receiving party without reliance on Information;  
d) was known to the receiving party prior to its disclosure by the other party; or  
e) is required to be disclosed by law (subject to the receiving party’s obligation to notify the disclosing party in a 
timely manner of such requirement).  
 
13.3 This confidentiality obligation shall survive the expiration or termination of th e Contract  for 5 years . 
 
14. Suspension  
14.1 Siemens Energy may suspend performance of its obligations under the Contract if (i) the Customer is in delay 
with any payment or in providing any payment security required under this Contract for more than 30 days, or (ii) 
the Customer fails to perform those of its obligations necessary for Siemens Energy to provide the Supplies, or 
(iii) the Customer otherwise materially breaches the Contract.  
 
14.2 If Siemens Energy suspends the Contract in accordance with Clause 14.1 or in the event the Customer suspends 
the Contract without the express written agreement of Siemens Energy, the Customer shall become immediately 
liable to pay Siemens Energy for all parts of the Supplies already provided. The Customer shall further reimb urse 
Siemens Energy all reasonable additional costs and expenses incurred as a result of such suspension (e.g. pay-
ments to subcontractors, cost of waiting time, demobilization and remobilization, etc.). Any contractual dates shall 
be extended for a reasona ble period to overcome the effects of the suspension.  
 
15. Termination  
15.1 Either party may terminate this Contract with immediate effect by written notice, if the other party becomes bank-
rupt or insolvent, or an application for bankruptcy proceedings is not granted due to insufficient assets.   
 
15.2 Save as provided under Clause 6.4 and Clause 15.1, the Customer may terminate the Contract only in the cir-
cumstances set out below and in each case upon 14 days written notice to Siemens Energy:  
a) in the event of delay, if the maximum liquidated damages under Clause 4.3 are payable, a reasonable addi-
tional period of time for provision of the Supplies has been granted to Siemens Energy and has expired, and 
   
 
Terms and Conditions for Product Business - Siemens Energy Austria  GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
9/10 
Siemens Energy within that time has not provided a commitment to pay further liquidated damages exceeding 
the before -mentioned maximum liquidated damages in respect of the continuing period of delay ; or 
b) in the event Siemens Energy has materially breached the Contract and has not remedied the breach within a 
reasonable period after receiving written notification of the breach from the Customer.  
 
15.3 Any termination by the Customer shall not affect those parts of the Supplies already delivered or performed in 
accordance with the Contract prior to the termination. In the event of termination in accordance with Clause 15.2, 
the Customer shall remain liable to pay Siemens Energy for all parts of the Supplies already delivered  or provided 
prior to termination. The Customer shall be entitled to compensation for the costs incurred in excess of the Con-
tract Price if it had the defective Supplies delivered by a third party. For the avoidance of doubt, Clause 11 shall 
apply in case of termination. The right to rescind the Contract is excluded.  
 
15.4 Notwithstanding any other rights it may have under this Contract, Siemens Energy may terminate the Contract  
a) if the Customer comes under the direct or indirect control of any competitor of Siemens Energy; or  
b) if the Customer materially breached the Contract and has not remedied the breach within a reasonable period 
after a notification by Siemens Energy or is in delay in making any payment or in providing any payment 
security required under this Contract for mo re than 60 days; or  
c) if the Contract has been suspended for more than 60 days.  
 
In the event of termination by Siemens Energy, Siemens Energy shall be entitled to recover from the Customer 
the Contract Price less any saved or avoided expenditure and any additional cost and expenses incurred by 
Siemens Energy due to such termination.  
 
16. Dispute Resolution and Applicable Law  
16.1 The Contract and any dispute or claim arising out of, or in connection with, it or its subject matter or formation 
(including non -contractual disputes or claims) shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the sub-
stantive laws of Switzerland excl uding the choice of law rules. The UN Convention on Contracts for the Interna-
tional Sale of Goods (CISG) shall not apply.  
 
16.2 All disputes or claims arising out of or in connection with this Contract, including disputes relating to its validity, 
breach, termination,  or nullity, shall be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration (Vienna Rules) of the Vienna 
International Arbitral Centre (VIAC) of the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber by 1 or 3 arbitrators appointed in  
accordance with the said Rules . 
 
16.3 If the value of the total matter in dispute, including the value of any counterclaims, is € 1 million or above, the 
expedited procedure provisions of the Rules shall not apply,  and the arbitral tribunal shall consist of 3 arbitrators. 
If the tribunal consists of 3 arbitrators, each party shall nominate one arbitrator for confirmation by the Board. 
Both arbitrators shall agree on the third arbitrator, within 30 days after their appointment. Should the 2 arbitrators 
fail to reach agreement on the third arbitr ator within the thirty -day period, the Board shall select and appoint the 
third arbitrator.  
 
16.4 The language to be used in the procedure and the arbitration proceeding shall be English. Any order for the 
production or disclosure of documents shall be limited to the documents on which each party specifically relies in 
its submission(s).  
 
16.5 The seat of arbitration shall be Vienna, Austria.  
 
17. Export Regulations  
17.1 If the Customer transfers the Supplies (hardware and/ or software and/ or technology as well as corresponding 
documentation and/ or works and services, regardless of the mode of provision, and/ or including all kinds of 
technical support) provided by Sieme ns Energy to a third party worldwide, the Customer shall comply with all 
applicable national and international (re -) export control regulations. In any event the Customer shall comply with 
the (re -) export control regulations of the Republic of Austria, of the Federal Republic of Germany, of the European 
Union and of the United States of America.  
 
17.2 If required to conduct export control checks, the Customer, upon request by Siemens Energy, shall promptly 
provide Siemens Energy with all information pertaining to a particular end customer, destination and intended 
use of the Supplies provided by Siemens  Energy, as well as any export control restrictions existing.  
 
   
 
Terms and Conditions for Product Business - Siemens Energy Austria  GmbH , Version 12/2024 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
10/10 
17.3 The Customer shall indemnify and hold harmless Siemens Energy from and against any claim, proceeding, ac-
tion, fine, loss, cost and damages arising out of or relating to any non -compliance with export control regulations 
by the Customer, and the Customer sh all compensate Siemens Energy for all losses and expenses resulting 
therefrom, unless such non -compliance was not caused by the fault of the Customer. This provision does not 
imply a change in the statutory burden of proof.  
 
18. Ban on re -export s to Russia  and Belarus  („No -Russia -Clause“)  
18.1 Siemens Energy hereby prohibits to the Customer, and the Customer agrees, not to re -export and/or forward, 
directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for use in Russia or Belarus any goods (hardware and/or software 
and/or technology and related docume ntation, regardless of the mode of provision) sold, supplied, transferred or 
exported by Siemens Energy to the Customer under this Contract . 
 
18.2 Siemens Energy shall be entitled to terminate this Contract  by written notice in the event of a breach by the 
Customer of the obligation pursuant to 18.1 of this Contract . Upon termination, the Customer shall pay to Siemens 
Energy all costs and damages incurred by Siemens Energy from such termination. In any case, the Customer 
shall pay Siemens Energy liquidated damages in the amount of 20 % of the Contract Price . 
 
18.3  Notwithstanding t he provision in  18.2, the Customer shall indemnify and hold harmless Siemens Energy in full 
from and against any claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public authorities or 
other third parties against Siemens Energy arising out of or relating to a breach by the Customer of the obligation 
under 18.1 of this  Contract  and the Customer shall compensate  Siemens Energy for all losses and expenses 
incurred resulting thereof.  
 
19. Miscellaneous  
19.1 Siemens Energy shall not be obligated to fulfil this Contract if such fulfilment  is prevented by any impediments 
arising out of national or international foreign trade or customs requirements or any embargoes or other sanctions 
including, but not limited to, embargoes or other sanctions imposed by the United Nations, the EU or the U.S . 
which, upon sole discretion of Siemens Energy, may expose Siemens Energy or any of its Affiliates to sanctions, 
penalties or other actions of governmental authorities detrime ntal to Siemens Energy or any of its Affiliates.  
 
19.2 If any provision of this Contract is prohibited or declared invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent juris-
diction, this shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision. The parties shall use their reason-
able efforts to substi tute such provision by a legal, valid or enforceable one with the same or a similar result.  
 
19.3 Any amendments, changes or additions to this Contract must be made in writing in the form of a written agreement 
signed by authorised representatives of both parties.  The written form is also complied with by (i) a simple  elec-
tronic signature and (ii) compliance with an upright EDI contract.  
 
19.4 No delay or omission by either party in exercising any right, power or remedy provided by law or under this 
Contract shall affect, impair or operate as a waiver of such right, power or remedy.  
 
19.5 This Contract constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes and extinguishes all previous 
agreements, promises, assurances, warranties, representations and understandings between them, whether writ-
ten or oral, relating to its subject matter. Each party acknowledges that in entering into this Contract it does not 
rely on, and shall have no remedies in respect of, any statement, representation, assurance or warranty (whether 
made innocently or negligently) that is not set out in this Con tract. Each party agrees that it shall have no claim 
for innocent or negligent misrepresentation based on any statement in this Contract.  
 
19.6 This Contract is drawn up in the English language. If this Contract is translated into another language, the English 
language text shall in any event prevail.  
 