   
 
 
Printed : 19.05.2021  
Intern al / RELEASED  
Version: 1.0  
  
© Siemens Energy Austria GmbH   
Update responsibility : SE EU AT EHS  
Distribution : for general use on part of  SE EU AT  
Page 1 von 2 
 
 
Hard copies and electronic copies of this file are not subject to automatic updating.  
 
HASi SE-A110 e  
 
 
 
  
Contractor : 
         
 
 
 
The Siemens Energy Austria GmbH (SEA)  expressively points out that the legal requirements regarding safety  and 
environmental protection  at work on the construction site / the business location / the building must be complied with.  
 
Responsibility concerning work safety of employees belonging to your company lies with your company.  
 
The requirements of S EA and the on -site safety regulation s (e.g. visitor info) as well as those of the corresponding 
site manager / location manager / building manager (construction coordination) are to be fully complied with.  
Work safety directives of the SEA site / location / building manager must be  followed.  
 
The identification of hazards, the assessment of corresponding risks and a workplace evaluation  for your company’s 
activities must be carried out prior to the commencement of work.  
 
Your employees must be briefed in regard to safety -related matters. Minutes are to be kept and copies must be 
submitted to the site / location / building manager  of SEA upon request.  
 
Your employees must be fitted with the necessary personal protective equipment (PPE). The PPE must  be used by 
the employees.  
 
Utilized tools, working substances and work equipment must comply with the legal requirements (inspection,  safety 
devices).  
 
Should non -compliance with these requirements result in problems with the main ordering party, S EA retains the 
right to take legal action as well as the option to remove employees, due to non -compliance with environment, health, 
safety ( EHS) regulations, from the construction site and the company premises.  
 Department , Location :         
Project  / Client:        
Address of the construction site:         
Address of the contractor :        
Contractor c ontact person :        
Safety manager :        
Phone/ E -mail addre ss:             
Period of construction activities:         
Following activities are carried out:        
      
EHS Requirements  for external companies on site 

   
 
 
Printed : 19.05.2021  
Intern al / RELEASED  
Version: 1.0  
  
© Siemens Energy Austria GmbH   
Update responsibility : SE EU AT EHS  
Distribution : for general use on part of  SE EU AT  
Page 2 von 2 
 
 
Hard copies and electronic copies of this file are not subject to automatic updating.  
 
HASi SE-A110 e 
 
Delivered documents : 
 
☐ SGU -Grundsatzerklärung (SCC -P) (only available in German ) 
☐ HASi SE -A111 e „Instruction sheet for employees of external companies”  
☐ HASi SE -F102 „SGD Baustellen, Montage & Service“  (only available in German ) 
☐ HASi SE -F107 „Eval. Checkliste – Gefährdungen, Maßnahmen, PSA“  (only available in German ) 
☐ Terms , information and documents  from the client that are  relevant  for instruction  
☐ SiGe -Documents  
☐ Others :       
 
The delivered documents were discussed between SEA and the contractor in the course of site inspection.  
 
 
The contractor confirms to know the form HASi SE -A111e “EHS – Instruction sheet for employees of  
external companies” and to comply with and implement the regulations stated therein.  
 
 
 
Additional Comments:  
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The work permit for the above -mentioned activities for the specified period is hereby issued by Siemens Energy 
Austria GmbH.  
 On site inspection done on:         
By the following p ersons :       
      
For SEA [Name, Official Position , Signature ]   
      
For external company [Name, Official Position , 
Signature ]   
