[Tapez ici]
1
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Siemens Energy Business Quality Requirements
(EBQR) for AGT Suppliers
EBQR Revision 4
Release date: 2024-03-19
Revision Control Version / Reason Date Released
EBQR Siemens Energy Business AGT
(Global)Rev 1 First Release of EBQR. Date: 2014-10-01
EBQR Siemens Energy, SECL AGT
(Canada)Rev 2 (for SE Canada only). Date: 2020-02-01
EBQR Siemens Energy AGT (Global)Rev 3 major revision to update EBQR in-
line with ISO 9001:2015, see Annex 1.Date: 2022-03-17
EBQR Siemens Energy AGT (Global) Rev 4 minor revision, SE AGT. Date: 2024-03-19
This document has been revised and approved by:
Head of SQD SE AGT
Kate Siegel
Head of Procurement SE AGTAndy Barnett
Head of Internal Quality SE AGT
Anthony Ricardo
Head of Repair Network SE AGT
Jim Smith

[Tapez ici]
2
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Contents
Introduction.
Section 1:   Scope, Content & Applicability / QMS Requirements (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 1).
Section 2:   Order of Precedence.
Section 3:   Terms and Definitions (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 3).
Section 4:   Context of the Organization (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 4).
Section 5:   Leadership / Policy (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 5).
Section 6:   Planning (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 6).
Section 7:   Support Resources (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 7).
Section 8:   Operation (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 8).
Section 9:   Performance Evaluation (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 9).
Section 10: Improvement (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 10).
Section 11: Additional Requirements & Clarifications.
Annex A1: Correlation Matrix .
Annex A2: Document revisions
INTRODUCTION
The purpose of the Siemens Energy Business Quality Requirements for SE AGT suppliers is to formally communicate
the requirements and expectations to the global supply chain. The document is aligned with the clauses of ISO
9001:2015 and Siemens Energy (SE AGT) “ additional requirements are highlighted in Italic text”.  This specification
and any other associated supplier used documents are available to view and download from the Supplier Portal or
upon request.
https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/home/supplier/supplier-information.html#AGT-Global-tab-2
Section 1:
SCOPE, CONTENT and APPLICABILITY
This specification applies to the suppliers and their sub-tiers, who manufacture, furnish, or process product and / or
the provision of services against the purchase order/schedule agreement demand of Siemens Energy AGT. For the
avoidance of doubt, this scope also applies to Authorized Repair Vendors & Maintenance Repair and Overhaul Centers
(MROC’s) who will be referred to as suppliers throughout the remainder of the document.
This specification is the main flow-down document and shall be invoked as the mandatory requirements for the
supply into SE AGT sites and locations globally to ensure requirements are established, maintained, and implemented
at all levels.
Siemens Energy AGT reserves the right to flow down additional requirements to satisfy customer and / or business
requirements.  Any exceptions or deviations from the requirements contained within this document must be
mutually agreed in writing with SE AGT Supplier Quality Management .
[Tapez ici]
3
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
Quality Management Systems Certification and Approvals for Suppliers
A)Establish a documented quality management system (QMS) to ISO 9001:2015 preferably that is
independently assessed and certified by a certification body. The certification body must be accredited by a
recognized National Accreditation Body to provide audit and certification services of Quality management
systems.
B)Work within the scope of their QMS Certification, and / or their scope of approval with Siemens Energy
AGT.
C)Ensure SE AGT is notified should their approval be suspended or revoked or when major nonconformances
(NCRs) are raised by the certifying Body.
D) Operate within the framework of ISO 14001 and ISO 45001:2018.
(Approval to these certification standards is preferred but non mandatory).
Section 2 :
ORDER OF PRECEDENCE
Order of precedence for the flow down requirements are:
a) Purchase Order (to include drawing, specifications) and requirements.
b) Repair Vendor License Agreements (applicable to authorized repair vendors & MROC’s only).
c) Long Term Agreement / Contractual Agreement / Frame Agreement.
d) This document (EBQR).
[Tapez ici]
4
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Section 3:
TERMS AND DEFINITIONS (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 3)
AGT Aeroderivative Gas Turbines.
CFSI Counterfeit and Fraudulent Suspect Items.
COC Certificate of Conformance.
CEP Customer Energy Portal.
DAR Drawing Alteration Request.
EBQR Siemens Energy Business Quality Requirements for AGT Suppliers
FAI(R)            First Article Inspection (Report).
ISO International Organization for Standardization.
ITP Inspection and Test Plan.
ITCL Industrial Turbine Company Limited.
MROC              Maintenance Repair Overhaul Centres.
NCR Non Conformance Report.
NTS                 Notice to Suppliers.
PFMEA Process Failure Mode and Effects Analysis.
PP Production Permit.
PPQ Product and Process Qualification.
QMS Quality Management System.
QN Quality Notification.
REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals
RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances
RVLA               Repair Vendor License Agreements.
SC Source Change.
SE Siemens Energy.
SECL Siemens Energy Canada Ltd.
TLRF              Technical Liaison Request Form.
[Tapez ici]
5
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Section 4
Context of the organization (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 4)
4.1   Understanding the organization and its context
4.2 Understanding the needs and expectations of interested parties
4.3 Determining the scope of the quality management
4.4 Quality management system and it’s processes
Section 5
Leadership (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 5)
5.1 Leadership and commitment
5.1.1 General
5.1.2 Customer focus
Policy (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 5.2)
5.2.1 Establishing the quality policy
5.2.2 Communicating the quality policy
5.3 Organizational roles, responsibilities & authorities
[Tapez ici]
6
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Section 6
Planning (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 6)
6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities.
Business Continuity & Risk Management
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
a)Establish business continuity plans that identify, analyze, evaluate and / or mitigate risks related to business
continuity that may include (but is not limited to) the following:
Obsolescence management.
Product, facility, or individual skill uniqueness / capacity etc.
Access to alternative production facilities.
Single points of failure (including sub-tier suppliers) or key processes.
Remote backup of computer data.
Access to alternative information technology systems.
Cybersecurity.
Action plans and timescales for business recovery.
Contacts, process owners and procedures to follow in the event of an emergency.
A strategy to control, review periodically and communicate plans to all relevant personnel.
b)It is required that a supplier inform their SE AGT Supplier Quality contact immediately regarding the
following:
Changes to third party or other party certification including lapse / withdrawal / major audit findings.
Change of the nominated quality representative.
Significant change to the quality management system.
Change in ownership or discontinuation of business activities.
Risks that could impact upon the continuity of the supplier’s business / operations.
Risks with the supply of substances used in the production or physical make-up of products, due to laws
and regulations concerning the control or use of such substances.
c)Comply with statutory legislation including CE Marking and UKCA Marking requirements.
d)Submit risk register and contingency plans to SE AGT on request.
Contingency plans can be requested at any time; not just during audits and/or assessments.
e)Maintain documented information of risk management.
6.2 Quality objectives and planning to achieve them
6.3 Planning of changes
[Tapez ici]
7
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Section 7
Support (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 7)
7.1 Resources
7.1.1 General
7.1.2 People
7.1.3 Infrastructure
7.1.4 Environment for the Operation of Processes
Lighting
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
a) Ensure product verification / inspection activities requiring accurate visual verification are performed
under sufficient lighting conditions that provide a recommended white light intensity of not less than 500
Lux.
7.1.5 Monitoring and measuring resources
Eye Examination
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
A)Establish a documented procedure to ensure that eye examinations, including “visual acuity and
colour vision, as applicable” are administered by a professionally qualified optometrist, to all
individuals performing visual inspection and/or other product acceptance activities that require
visual acuity.
Intervals shall not exceed two years.
Individuals shall be tested, either corrected or uncorrected.
Colour Perception testing intervals should not exceed 5 years. Individuals shall be capable of
adequately distinguishing and differentiating colours used in the method for which certification is
required, the process being performed or inspection activity.
B) Documentation shall be retained for each individual performing:
Visual inspection (i.e., calibration, non-weld, in- process and final, layout, dimensional).
Visual Inspections on Welds.
Non-destructive Testing (NDT) .
7.1.6 Organizational knowledge
7.2 Competence
7.3Awareness
7.4 Communication
7.5 Documented information
[Tapez ici]
8
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
7.5.1 General
7.5.2 Creating and updating
7.5.3 Control of documented information
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
Comply with the current revision of documents / specifications referenced on the product definition
or purchase order / contract.
Take appropriate action when document changes cannot be implemented prior to the shipment of
the product.
Flow down SE AGT documents / specifications to sub-tier suppliers (when applicable).
Translate SE AGT documents.  If there are deviations between the English version and translated
versions, the English version is the applicable one.
Ensure that corrections to work Instruction or QMS documents are recorded and traceable to the
originator (e.g. signature, stamp, etc) in ink or other permanent marking method with the original data
being legible after the change.
Access and changes to documented information will only be performed by persons authorized to
do so.
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
Control documented information related to AGT products in a manner that will allow the recovery of a
readable version of any documented information (including electronic documented information) by
ensuring that:
Documented information is retrievable on request within 24 hours.
Data requiring authorization by SE is written in the English language or dual language i.e., the
supplier’s national language plus an accurate English translation made from the original
document / record (see also Control of documents).
Documented information created by and / or retained by subcontractors / sub-tier suppliers are
appropriately controlled in accordance with these requirements.
Note:  Electronically scanned files are permissible In lieu of storing hardcopies. All electronic documented
information must be controlled, retained and retrievable per the same requirements identified for hard
copy documented information. For electronic documented information that are transferred from
computer files, the storage media must be capable of maintaining the data integrity for the full retention
period.
[Tapez ici]
9
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Retention of Documented information:
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
Retain the documented information for the minimum periods as below:
When the product definition specifies "fixed process control".
Retained permanently or until SE AGT has instructed the supplier to dispose of the documented
information.
All other parts documentation must be retained for 6 years minimum commencing from the date
product was delivered to AGT SE. The supplier can dispose of documented information at the end
of this specified period.
Note:  MROC’s and repair vendors must comply with the latest revision of repair schemes supplied directly
by SE AGT. When working on behalf of SE AGT, use associated documentation stored on the Customer
Energy Portal .(For CEP access contact your local SE AGT Account Manager / Commercial Manager ).
Section 8
Operation (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 8)
8.1 Operational planning and control
Prevention of Counterfeit Parts
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
Establish a CFSI controlled process to prevent the use of counterfeit, or suspect counterfeit items, all parts
shall be controlled to prevent entry into the supply chain.
Only source catalogue items directly from the original manufacturers (or their authorized agents)
who have been given prior approval within the suppliers QMS.
In the event of any CFSI being discovered within the supply chain, the supplier must inform SE AGT
immediately.
Any CFSI items which are discovered within the supply chain must be quarantined, reported
immediately to SE AGT, destroyed, and scrapped with documented information.
[Tapez ici]
10
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Material compliance:
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
All suppliers of goods and services provided directly to Siemens Energy must ensure that the statutorily
imposed restrictions and/or information requirements for both those substances and mixtures shall have
the requisite authorisations as laid out within, but not limited to, REACH and RoHS and these details shall
be supplied to Reach.agt@siemens-energy.com prior to the supply of those goods or services. It is the
responsibility of the supplier of those goods and services that they keep themselves up to date for the
latest chemicals that are affected by these and future legislations.
8.2 Requirements for products and services
8.2.1Customer communication
8.2.2 Determining the requirements for products and services
Applicable to suppliers and their sub-contractors working at Siemens Energy sites and their customers
sites; shall:  *
The Service provider, and their sub-contractors, as appropriate, shall at all times
              co-ordinate their activities to ensure that work is carried out safely.
After confirmation of order and before any mobilisation of personnel, they shall agree instructions
(including method statements and risk assessments to establish a safe system of work).
The supplier shall at all times whilst attending or working on any site familiarise itself and fully
comply with all relevant health, safety and environmental laws, rules, regulations and procedures,
the SE (and the SE’s customers) health and safety policies, and any other requirements which may
reasonably be notified to them.
*Not applicable to SECL where defined as indirect suppliers
8.2.3 Review of requirements for products and services
8.2.4 Changes to requirements for products and services
8.3 Design and development of products and services
8.3.1 General
8.3.2 Design and development planning
8.3.3 Design and development inputs
8.3.4 Design and development controls
8.3.5 Design and development outputs
[Tapez ici]
11
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
8.3.6 Design and development changes
8.4 Control of Externally Provided Processes, Products and Services
8.4.1 General
8.4.2 Type and extent of control
Control of work transfers (source change)
Applicable to Gas Turbine Engine Components only, Suppliers Shall:
Control of work transfers (Source Change) is applicable to suppliers planning the temporary or permanent
transfer of work and is used to control and verify that the product conforms to requirements during and
after the following types of transfers:
From one supplier’s facility to another supplier facility.
From the supplier’s facility to a subcontractor / sub-tier supplier.
From a subcontractor / sub-tier supplier to the supplier’s facility.
From one subcontractor / sub-tier supplier to another subcontractor / sub-tier supplier.
Any transfer of work within the supplier’s current facility that could have an effect upon the
continuity of supply of product.
Control of work transfers (source change) is NOT applicable to:
Purchased standard catalogue hardware or deliverable software.
A proposed source that holds a current valid First Article Inspection Report (FAIR) or PPQ for the
product.
Raw material purchased from a stockist / distributor.
SE AGT Global Indirect contracts.
In addition, the Supplier Shall :
A)Establish a documented procedure for the control of work transfers (source change) to plan, control
and verify the conformity to specified requirements during the temporary or permanent transfer of
work. The procedure shall contain (but not be limited to):
Formal notification to all stakeholders before any change commences.
Risk assessment and mitigation.
Transfer plan.
Demonstration of capacity at the in-loading area to protect customer delivery.
Demonstration that generation of buffer stocks are built into load and capacity plans to protect
customer delivery.
Complete and submit the form(s) associated with this activity to their SE AGT purchasing contact (see link
below).
Source and method change form
[Tapez ici]
12
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
B)Proceed with the work transfer (source change) only when a response has been received from their
SE AGT purchasing contact and they comply with requirements specified in the response.
C)Ensure that work transfer (source change) documentation / information is communicated along the
purchase order cascade.
D)Ensure delivery performance is protected prior to any work transfer (source change).
E)Maintain documented information of work transfers (source change).
8.4.3 Information for external providers
Purchasing / Subcontracting
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
Communicate and flow down the supplier’s (purchaser’s) requirements and SE AGT requirements;
(including applicable SE AGT Supplier Requirements) to subcontractors / sub-tier suppliers.
Ensure NDA’s are in place when sharing any SE propriety information
Note: The Authorised Repair Vendors or MROCs shall not subcontract any part of Repair Scheme or
any related Repair Work without the prior written consent of SE AGT. Additionally, where parts or
components are required in the performance of repair and overhaul work, such parts must only be
purchased from Siemens Energy.
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
A)Only purchase from a source holding appropriate certification unless agreed with SE AGT Supplier
Quality [1].
B)Specify, as applicable, any critical items, during purchasing / subcontracting, product design and
development and production design and development, including any key characteristics, and
specific actions to be taken for these items [1].
C)Unless otherwise noted from SE AGT, only purchase from a SE AGT designated source unless the
supplier (purchaser) is purchasing [1]:
SE AGT material specifications from a material stockist / distributor and with traceability to the raw
material manufacturer.
 Non SE AGT material specifications only purchase raw material directly from the raw material
manufacturer.
Or
 Non SE AGT material specifications only purchase from a material stockist / distributor where the
material is tested to specification by a certified inspection and testing laboratory.
Note 1:  Only applicable to all suppliers involved in or associated with:
Classified Components (Critical and Sensitive) New & repair.
Procurement of Castings and Forgings.
[Tapez ici]
13
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
8.5 Production and service provision
8.5.1 Control of production and service provision
Preventative Maintenance [2]
In addition, The supplier shall:
Identify key process equipment and provide resources for machine / equipment maintenance and develop an
effective planned total preventive maintenance system that includes the following:
Planned maintenance activities (including the identification of critical spares).
Packaging, protection and preservation of equipment, tooling, and gauging.
Availability of replacement parts for key production equipment.
Documenting, evaluating, and improving maintenance objectives.
Identification and control of all safety-critical plant and equipment.
Loss to available capacity related to planned maintenance activities.
Note 2:  Only applicable to the equipment and Processes utilized to fulfil SE AGT demand.
Work Instructions
In addition, The supplier shall :
a)Prepare documented work instructions for personnel having the responsibility for the operation of
processes that impact product quality.
b)Ensure work instructions are accessible for use at the workstation.
c)Ensure work instructions are derived and cross referenced to sources such as the PFMEA and / or the
control plan (as applicable).
NB: Work instructions can include process flow diagrams, production documents such as production plans,
travelers, routers, work orders, process cards and inspection documents.
Control of Equipment, Tools and Software Programs :
Production equipment, tools, and software programs used to automate, and control/monitor product
realisation processes shall be validated by the supplier prior to release for production and are maintained.
Storage requirements, including periodic preservation/condition checks, are defined for production
equipment or tooling in storage.
8.5.2 Identification and traceability
In addition, the supplier shall:
[Tapez ici]
14
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
a)Identify raw material / product by suitable means throughout production activities and the
identification to be maintained throughout the product life.
b)Maintain the traceability for all product during production/repair and overhaul (including product
quantities, split orders, nonconforming product, and scrap).
c)Control the unique and serialized parts identification of the product when specified in the SE AGT
product definition and / or purchase order / contract (see forms below).
d)Establish a method to differentiate between an unfinished / incomplete product during subcontract /
sub-tier supplier processing activities and a finished / completed product.
e)For an assembly the ability to trace its components to the assembly and then to the next higher
assembly.
f)Maintain documented information of product identification, traceability, and serialization.
g)For a product, a sequential record of its production (manufacture, assembly, inspection/verification) to
be retrievable including repair.
h)The ability to trace all products manufactured from the same batch of raw material, or from the same
manufacturing batch to the destination (e.g., delivery, scrap).
NB: Not applicable to standard catalogue hardware or deliverable software.
8.5.3 Property belonging to customers or external providers
8.5.4 Preservation
Foreign Object Debris (FOD) Prevention
In addition, The supplier shall:
Establish a method for the prevention, detection, and removal of Foreign Object Debris.
The method should contain the following elements as a minimum:
i. Physical entry control into FOD critical areas (where applicable).
ii. Inspection for foreign objects prior to closing apertures and compartments during
assembly. Ensure that all incidents of actual or potential FOD is reported and investigated.
iii. Include appropriate employee awareness training.
Storage and inventory
In addition, the supplier shall:
A.Provide secure storage facilities for product, equipment, tools, and material, that are suitable for
long term storage of components.
The areas used for long term storage shall be maintained at a minimum temperature of 15 degrees
Celsius, 59 degrees Fahrenheit, 288.15 Kelvin, and a maximum relative humidity RH of 75%.
B.Ensure the conditions of storage prevent deterioration and damage of stored items.
C.Assess the condition of product in stock at appropriate planned intervals in order to detect
deterioration.
[Tapez ici]
15
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
•Rule for determining safety stock levels.
•Method to guarantee inventory accuracy and stock rotation.
•Key performance indicators to monitor inventory.
•Method to monitor, review and action slow-moving work in progress.
•Control of shelf-life product [3].
D.Ensure segregation of serviceable product, equipment, tools and material from unserviceable
product, equipment, tools and material.
NOTE 3: Products supplied to SE AGT subject to shelf-life restrictions shall be supplied with a minimum of
85% of their shelf-life period remaining from the date of manufacture unless specifically agreed with the SE
AGT Supplier Quality Representative.
Packaging and Labelling Definition
In addition, the supplier shall:
A)Ensure that products are packaged to a standard that provides adequate protection against
damage, deterioration and tampering during shipment, storage, and distribution.
B)Ensure that the product packaging is labelled to a standard that provides adequate identification
and traceability of the product.
C)Comply with the ‘Protection Packaging and Labelling Guidelines [4].
NOTE 4:  Protection Packaging and Labelling Guidelines is available to view and download from the
Supplier Portal:
Packaging and Labelling Requirement SE AGT
8.5.5 Post-delivery activities
CE / UKCA Marking
In addition, the supplier shall:
Purposes of CE / UKCA Marking Technical Directives provide for the CE marking of products. The use
of the CE mark implies that the manufacturer has complied with all Directives relating to the
product.
The European Union (EU) rules apply everywhere in the European Economic Area (EEA), so
products complying with these requirements and bearing CE marking may be supplied anywhere in
the EEA. The person or legal entity (e.g., a company) who affixes the CE marking on the product is
legally responsible for the claimed compliance with the appropriate Directives. Normally that
person would be resident in Europe and in the case of equipment manufactured outside the EEA;
the agent who places the product on the market becomes responsible.
[Tapez ici]
16
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
The CE marking will not be recognised in Great Britain. However, a product bearing the CE marking
would still be valid for sale in the UK so long as it was also UKCA marked and complied with the
relevant UK rules. Where required, products supplied shall be duel marked with both the CE and the
UKCA part marking.
The UKCA marking applies to most goods previously subject to the CE marking. Technical
requirements (‘essential requirements’) – and the conformity assessment processes and standards
which can be used to demonstrate conformity – are largely the same as they were for the CE
marking but are subject to change and should be confirmed.
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/using-the-ukca-marking
8.5.6 Control of changes
Source & Method Control
Applicable to Authorized Repair Vendors and MROC’s only, they shall:
Ensure Source and Method Control approval is within a 2-year validity date.
8.6 Release of products and services
In addition, the supplier shall:
The Supplier shall provide in writing all data, instructions, and warnings as are required to comply
with applicable legislation relating to health, safety, and the environment.
If any of the goods to be supplied under the contract contain any hazardous substances or require
any special precautions to be taken to ensure safety in handling, transport, storage or use and for
the protection of the environment, the Supplier shall prior to their delivery furnish the purchaser
with written details of the nature of those substances and the precautions to be taken.
The Supplier shall ensure that before dispatching appropriate instructions and warnings are clearly
and prominently marked on the goods or securely attached to them and on any containers into
which they are packed.
Certificates of Conformance and Release documentation
In addition, the supplier shall:
      A) Provide separate release documentation with each delivery to SE AGT [5].
      B)  Ensure that the release documentation:
Is written in English or in a language specified by SE AGT.
Refers to a single purchase order / schedule.
Refers to a single part number.
Is legible and protected from damage / deterioration .
[Tapez ici]
17
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Is attached to the outside of the secondary packaging and one copy included within the
packaging with the product.
C)Contains the following information as a minimum:
Unique traceable document reference number.
Supplier’s name, address, and telephone number.
Country of origin.
Delivery address.
SEAGT purchase order number (including purchase order item number).
SE AGT plant and storage location (when specified).
Description of the product (as referenced on the SE AGT purchase order).
Part number (as referenced on the SE AGT purchase order).
Kit number (when applicable) – plus a list of part numbers, quantities, serial numbers.
Traceable reference (serial, batch, lot, heat, cast numbers - as applicable).
Quantity.
Any applicable Concession/production permit references.
Quality plan number (if applicable).
Date of dispatch.
Conformance / compliance statement [6].
Signature of person authorized to release the product to the customer.
D)Provide additional information (when applicable):
Approved PPQ/First Article Inspection Report (FAIR) front sheet.
Modification, repair scheme, or service bulletins.
Hazardous substances / safety data sheet (safety data sheet to be provided).
Shelf life (cure date, batch, group) – no mixed cure dates / batches. [3]
Virus-free declaration (computer software).
Cross reference to the original raw material manufacturer’s name (stockists / distributors).
Cross reference to customer name and purchase order (material processors).
E)Provide a certificate of analysis or raw material manufacturer’s certificate with the shipment of raw
material that contains the following:
Traceable reference to batch, lot, heat, cast numbers.
Chemical analysis including constituent elements and percentages.
Physical analysis, i.e., stress strain data, and temper.
F)Maintain documented information [7] of release documentation as category ‘A’ when the product
definition specifies. Fixed Process Control. All other documented information will be maintained as
category ‘B’.
NOTE 5:  Electronically generated release documentation is acceptable without the physical signatures
provided controls are in place at the supplier of un-intended use of authorized person credentials.
NOTE 6:  Typical compliance statement: “Certified that the whole of supplies hereon has been inspected /
tested and unless otherwise stated, conform in all respects to specification, drawing and purchase order
requirements”.
[Tapez ici]
18
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
NOTE 7: Documented information of release documentation held electronically shall contain all of the
information shown on the original document and a traceable reference to the person authorized to release
the product to customer.
8.7 Control of Nonconforming outputs
In addition, the supplier shall :
A)Establish a method of detection and feedback of product / service nonconformities or process
noncompliance.
B)Take necessary actions to contain the effect of the nonconformity on other processes or products
and services i.e. work in progress, stores stock, shipping area, in transit, sub-tier / subcontract
activities, similar products, dispatched / delivered to customer (within 48 hours).
C)Stop shipment of product when notified of non-conformance by Siemens Energy AGT, until
appropriate corrective action has been established.
D)Clearly identify and control product that has been deemed scrap.
E)Verbal agreements or instructions shall under no circumstances be construed as approval or
authorization to deliver such parts.
Section 9
Performance evaluation (ISO 9001:2015 Clause 9)
9.1 Monitoring, measurement, analysis, and evaluation
9.1.1 General
9.1.2 Customer satisfaction
9.1.3 Analysis and evaluation
9.2 Internal audit
9.3 Management Review
9.3.1 General
9.3.2 Management Review Inputs
9.3.3 Management Review Outputs
[Tapez ici]
19
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Section 10
Improvement (ISO 9001: 2015 Clause 10)
10.1 General
10.2 Nonconformity and corrective action
Production Permit / Concessions, In addition the supplier shall:
A)Complete and submit the form(s) associated with this activity to their SE AGT SQ contact or
supplier Portal for concessions.
B)Take appropriate corrective action.
C)If required, mark the product as indicated on the deviation permit / concession, including (but not
limited to) the relevant concession category and concession number allocated by SE AGT. in
accordance with the applicable identification marking method (and location) specified in the
product definition.
D)Ensure Concession is approved prior to the shipment of a product which does not conform to
specified requirements. [8]
E)Maintain documented information of deviation permits / concessions as category ‘A’ Retention of
documented information.
NOTE 8: Cost of Non-Quality Claims.
Applicable to SE AGT reserves the right to recover  non-conformance costs , the following amounts may
be claimed as a standard charge (Euros) by Siemens Energy for Quality Notifications in declared and un-
declared categories (9).
Concessions submissions (New, Revised and Rejects):      €600
Rejects at receipt:                            €800
Rejects as a result of assembly/test complaints:                €1000
Rejects as a result of customer/operator complaints:       €1650
NOTE 9:  The claim amount will be charged according to the PO currency.
In addition, the supplier shall:
Applicable to Authorized Repair Vendors and MROC’s only, they shall:
Ensure local repairs are fully approved, either by local approval (if granted) or TLRF approval.
Ensure TLRF’s are referenced within manufacturing documentation.
10.3 Continuas Improvement
Quality and delivery performance
In addition, the supplier shall:
A)Monitor quality and delivery performance using key performance indicators. Where SE AGT has
provided the supplier with a scorecard, the supplier will use the targets noted in the scorecard as
Key Performance Indicators (KPI).
[Tapez ici]
20
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
B)Take appropriate corrective action when quality or delivery performance is not or will not be
achieved.
C)Inform SE AGT purchasing contact immediately when delivery schedules are not, or will not be,
achieved and submit a recovery plan to their SE AGT purchasing contact.
Section 11
ADDITIONAL REQUIRMENTS AND CLARIFICATIONS
11.1 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND CLARIFICATIONS
Product and Process Qualification (PPQ)
In addition, the Supplier Shall:
For those suppliers and their subcontractors participating in the PPQ Process (as advised by SE AGT)
additional requirements can be found using the filepath:
PPQ Element definition and supplier information
Definition Alteration Request (DAR)
DAR is applicable to Gas Turbine Engine Components only, and applies to:
Changes that DO NOT affect fit, form or function.
Changes (Source and method change) that impact upon SE AGT requirements.
Changes that require a decision by SE AGT Engineering.
The Supplier Shall:
A)Complete and submit the form(s) associated with this activity to their SE AGT Procurement
Contact.[10],[11].
DAR form (Canada) (siemens-energy.com)
B)Maintain documented information for definition alteration requests defined as category ‘A’.
Note 10:  Evidence of repeated Concessions/ Production Permit’s acceptance on same feature and same
deviation shall result in a DAR submission requesting updates to the drawings.
Note 11: Cost of Non-Quality Claims (see Production Permit / Concessions) is not applicable for Production
Permit applications if DAR is submitted to SE AGT .
[Tapez ici]
21
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
Annex A1
Correlation Matrix
ISO 9001:2015Clause
ReferencesClause
ReferencesContent
ChangeContent
Change
Clause References: ISO 9001:2015, EBQR
v3 2022   EBQR v1
(2014)    EBQR v2
(2020)EBQR v3
(2022)EBQR v4
(2024)
0 Introduction 
1 Scope, Content & Applicability A1.1, A1.2 A1.1, A1.2 
2 Order of Precedence  
3 Terms and Definitions 
4 Context of the organization
4.1 Understanding the organization and its
context
4.2 Understanding needs and expectations of
interested parties
4.3 Determining the scope of the quality
management system
4.4 Quality management system and its
processes
5Leadership A2.2
5.1 Leadership and commitment
5.1.1 General A2.1
5.1.2 Customer focus
5.2 Policy
5.2.1 Establishing the quality policy
5.2.2 Communicating the quality policy
5.3 Organizational roles, responsibilities and
authorities
6 Planning
6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities A3.4 
6.2 Quality objectives and planning to
achieve them
6.3 Planning of changes
7 Support
7.1 Resources
7.1.2 People
7.1.3 Infrastructure
7.1.4 Environment for the operation of
processesA3.2, B4.1 
7.1.5 Monitoring and measuring resources A3.3 A2.2 
7.1.6 Organizational knowledge
7.2 Competence A3.1 A2.1
7.3 Awareness
7.4 Communication
7.5 Documented information
[Tapez ici]
22
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
7.5.1 General
7.5.2 Creating and updating
7.5.3 Control of documented information A1.3, A1.4A1.3, A1.4,
A1.5
8 Operation
8.1 Operational planning and control 
8.2 Requirements for and services
8.2.1 Customer communication
8.2.2 Determining the requirements for
products and services
8.2.3 Review of requirements for products
and services
8.2.4 Changes to requirements for products
and services
8.3 Design and development of products and
services
8.3.1 General
8.3.2 Design and development planning B2.1, B3.1
8.3.3 Design and development inputs
8.3.4 Design and development controls B3.3, B3.4
8.3.5 Design and development outputs
8.3.6 Design and development changes B2.2
8.4 Control of externally provided
processes, products & services
8.4.1 General A4.4, A4.5
8.4.2 Type and extent of control A4.2 A3.2 
8.4.3 Information for external providersB1.2, A4.1,
A4.3A3.1, A3.3 
8.5 Production and service provision
8.5.1 Control of production and service
provisionB3.6, A4,6,
A4.7A3.4 
8.5.2 Identification and traceability B3.8 
8.5.3 Property belonging to customers or
external providersA3.5
8.5.4 PreservationA4.8, A4.10,
B3.11A3.6, A3.7,
A5.4 
8.5.5 Post-delivery activities  
8.5.6 Control of changes 
8.6 Release of products and services A4.9, A5.3 A4.1 
8.7 Control of nonconforming outputs A5.4, A5.6 A4.2 
9 Performance evaluation
9.1 Monitoring, measurement, analysis and
evaluation
9.1.1 General
9.1.2 Customer satisfaction
9.1.3 Analysis and evaluation
[Tapez ici]
23
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.                                                                                                                                                                     E1B101022535_B
9.2 Internal audit A5.2
9.3 Management review
10 Improvement
10.1 General
10.2 Nonconformity and corrective action A5.5, A5.7 A4.3  
10.3 Continual improvement A5.1 A4.4 
11 Additional Requirements & Clarifications 
11.1 Definition Alteration Request (DAR)A5.1 
NOTE :11.2 Reduced Inspection,11.3 Sample
Inspection,11.4 Unclassified and Sensitive
Components, 11.5 Parts with fly sheets have
been omitted from v3A5.2, A5.3,
A5.5, A5.6
           Annex A2
           Document Revisions
Revised by Date
Anthony Duggan
Greg Hart2022-03-17
Liliana Bonilla Guillen 2024-03-19