 1  
PACKAGING AND LABELLING REQUIREMENTS
Issue 002
September 2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 3 1 Purpose
The purpose of this document is to formally communicate Siemens Energy (SE) requirements 
and expectations to the global supply chain related to the packaging and labeling of product 
being shipped to SCL.
The instructions described below are minimum requirements  and product specific require-
ments could be added in agreement with SE. This instruction is the basis for the acceptance of 
the packing by SE or its representative. Following the instructions does not discharge the con-
tractor from liability for damages incurred as a result of poor packing. In the case of a damage 
incurred due to packing defects, this document will be considered state of the art in disputes.
 T
he contractor should continuously improve their packing methods, compare with other 
customers of the contractor and find best practice regarding packing methods in terms of 
quality, cost, consolidation, environment and handling. Other packing methods may be used if 
they are equivalent or more stringent then the methods described here and is approved by SE.
 
The SE supplier is responsible to package their product in such a manner that when it is 
received at its’ final destination, either a SE facility or customer site, it is free from damage and 
meets fit, form and function requirements without the need for repair or rework. This is ex-
pected regardless of who is the responsible party for freight or transportation.
 
Any changes regarding the packing solution must  be approved by SE in writing before 
changes are made.
 
Statutory packing provisions that are valid in the countries supplying and receiving the goods 
must be taken into account when selecting packing methods, systems and materials.  
 
The packaging and labeling requirements are available to view and available to download 
from the SE Supplier Portal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
4 2 Scope of Applicability
The packaging and labeling requirements are applicable to all suppliers, Partner Managed In-
ventory suppliers or partners who supply product related to  SE contracts / purchase orders un-
less otherwise specified in the product definition or contract / purchase order. The partners 
shall impose the obligations of this document on its Subcontractors (if any).
NOTE: Supplier shall adhere to the process specification RPS 367 for Corrosion Protection of 
Components during manufacture and storage unless otherwise specified in the product 
definition or contract / purchase order.
3 Definitions and glossary / terminology
 
SE                           Siemens Energy 
Package  Single unit in a shipment. 
Four-way-pallet Pallet that can be handled with fork lift from all four sides.
Label Information identifying the goods and permanently affixed on its 
container, package or on the product itself. Example: - Packaging 
Label.
Marking Information applied on the article. Often described or indicated in the 
drawing, in the purchase order or production order. Example: -
punched marking.
Dunnage The materials used to provide adequate support, bracing and 
protection of product during shipment i.e. padding in a shipping
container to   prevent unnecessary movement of load.
Polythene and 
PolyethyleneBoth shall be regarded as being the same . 
Supplier Portal  Supplier facing portal holding forms and guidance material.  
EBQR  Energy Business Quality Requirements  
Master/ Final 
box Transportation box containing consolid ated shipment of multiple 
boxes.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
5 4 General Requirements  
 
4.1 Packaging and labelling requirements
The supplier shall:
• Ensure that the products are packaged and labeled in accordance with the requirements of 
this document to a standard that will provide adequate protection against damage, deteriora-
tion, tampering and other risks during shipment to SE, plus the storage and subsequent distri-
bution within SE and / or external dispatch to SE customers for a period of 12 months from 
the time of Packing.
 
4.2 Designing the transport packaging  
The supplier shall:  
Design the packing considering below points  
 •
 The Package shall allow safe and appropriate handling, lifting  (e.g. sufficient lifting lugs, 
slinging points) and load securing.
• The design loads are based on conditions resulting from normal  loading during 
transport, storage and trans-shipment, including all cargo-handling operations.
• When dimensioning the packages, standardized dimensions of transport vehicles, pallets 
etc. should be taken into account where possible. Package dimensions should allow 
transportation by truck, train, ship or airplane from contractor to SE.
• Goods delivered on pallet . If otherwise agreed with SE, the package should have a bot-
tom clearance of at least 100 mm  for entering the arms of a forklift. 
For the next day air and small package shipping environment  (UPS, FedEx, DHL,  etc.), 
warnings or stickers on shipping containers will not change the basic nature of the 
transportation and handling system. Packages shall be capable of withstanding the stacking, 
drops, kicks, collisions, rolling, tumbling and throwing of boxes in thi s system with no damage to 
parts and minimal damage to the packages . 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 6 4.3 Documented packaging and labeling  instructions
The supplier shall:
• Establish a documented (product group / commodity specific) packaging and labeling
instruction(s) with the photos that shall be made available to personnel involved in the 
packaging and labeling process to ensure that the product is consistently packaged and 
labeled in manner that meets the requirements of the packaging and labeling require-
ments document.
• This document (or series) shall be made available to SE upon request to ensure that the prod-
uct is consistently protected, packaged and labeled in a manner that meets the requirements of 
this document.
NOTE: If a third party sub-vendor packages the product, the requirements given above 
still apply.
• Establish a process to inspect all labels and identification markings prior to the shipment 
ensuring they are readable.
 
5 Packaging  
 
5.1 General packaging requirements  
 
• Ensure that the product is packed in a manner that  will allow the product to be removed 
from the packaging without damaging the product in the process.  
• Ensure that the packaging material will not contaminate the goods enclosed.  
• Wherever possible, use packaging which allows the reclamation of mixed materials with 
the minimum of effort (e.g., avoiding the use of bonding systems that prevent 
separation of individual materials).  
• Ensure packaging is sufficient to prevent damage and p reserve product integrity whilst 
also being minimized as far as is practicable to reduce waste.   
• Use dunnage as necessary to provide adequate support, bracing and protection of 
product during shipment. Wrap or bag the product  to ensure that dunnage materi al 
does not come into direct contact with the product.    
• Ensure that transportation caps, covers and plugs are plastic (not rubber) and of 
sufficient flexibility so that cracking will not occur. Shipping caps, covers and plugs shall 
be push -on type and ha ve broad flanges.  
• Establish appropriate precautions to prevent the ingress of foreign objects and 
contamination into components with orifices.  
 
NOTE  1: The use of self -setting packing foams injected directly into boxes is not recommended.  
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
7  NOTE 2:  Prohibited dunnage materials are as follows:    
Any material that may present a risk of being caught inside hollow components  
• Polystyrene loose chippings   
• Shredded paper / tissue paper   
NOTE 3: PVC shall NOT, in any circumstances, be used in contact wit h Titanium alloys.  
NOTE 4: To facilitate reclamation / recycling, the supplier will ensure that dunnage materials are 
not to be mixed (when possible).  
NOTE 5: The use of staples is only acceptable for packaging construction / reinforcement and 
must not be used for closing / sealing any openings.  
5.2  Weight, size & shape of packages  
The supplier shall:  
• Ensure that the size, shape and weight of the packages used will not present difficulties 
to the normal handling.   
• Indicate the heaviest side of the package when the center of gravity is off center.  
5.3  Pallets  
The supplier shall:  
• The goods shall be de livered on approved EUR pallet , See Table 1 below .  
• Overhang of the packages is NOT accepted.  
• Goods shall be fastened w ith straps  
o Please note that the straps shall not cover the marking or labeling of the goods, 
all part markings must be clearly visible.  
o If the straps are secured with bolts the nuts must not be welded. Straps should 
have either cardboard or a thin piece of  wood between  them and the component.  
Table 1  (Pallet dimensions for parts)  
Type of pallet  Pallet dimensions  Maximum weight  Maximum 
dimensions  
EUR Pallet  1200x800x144mm  1000kg  1200x1200x800mm  
Four -way pallet  1600x1200x144mm  2000 kg 1600xl600x800mm  
Four -way pallet  2000x2000x144mm  3000 kg 2000x2000x800mm  
Four -way pallet  2000x2400x166mm  3000 kg 2000x2000x166mm  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
8  
• Pallet goods between 25 and 1000 kilos shall always  be delivered on approved EUR 
pallet  (1200x800x144 mm).  
• Ensure that when a package is physically too large or too heavy for safe manual handling 
it will be attached to a pallet base to enable mechanical handling  
• Use pallets and bases that are in good condition   
• Ensure that the pallet material is suitable to carry the product load during tr ansit and 
storage.   
 
Goods belonging to the same  or different  purchase order number can be packed together  on 
condition that:  
• The weight not exceeds the maximum weight speciﬁed in Table 1 for respectively pallet.  
• The package not exceeds 800 mm in height, i ncluding pallet.  
NOTE : The wood pallets used to transport goods to certain countries may require fumigation.  
Ensure that your shipment is compliant to these requirements.  
 
5.4 Exceptionally large or heavy items / loads   
Exceptionally large or heavy items / loads are defined as having the largest dimension of 
either height, width or length in excess of 2.5metres (98.4 inches), or weight in excess of 
3000kgs (3 tons  or 3.307 tons).  
 
The supplier shall:  
• Ensure the safe del ivery and handling of exceptionally large or heavy items / loads   
• Ensure that exceptionally large or heavy items / loads will only be delivered to Siemens 
Canada Ltd to either:  
 A pre -defined packaging and handling specification formally agreed by the Sie mens 
receiving site.   
 The Siemens Business Unit purchase department placing the order has arranged 
contact with the supplier and the receiving Siemens site - as / where applicable.   
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
9 5.5 Reusable containers
Reusable containers may be introduced by SE that is managed by an inbound collection
service .
The supplier shall:
• Ensure that reusable containers are fit for purpose. The supplier shall contact the 
Siemens packaging service provider when a reusable container has been deemed to be 
unfit for purpose
• Store SE supplied re-usable containers indoors at all times. The minimum requirement is un-
dercover, in a shelter, protected by three sides, a roof, and not in standing water
• Ensure that reusable containers are NOT used to deliver any product other than those 
designated and labelled on the container.
• Each supplier to have a process for removing  old labels  before reusing packaging
5.6 Plastic banding  
The supplier shall:  
      Use plastic banding to package products (when applicable)  – Metal banding shall not be 
used.   
NOTE: Banding of multiple packages is not permitted where method of transportation to the 
delivery destination will include airfreight unless each individual package has release 
documentation and a receipt label attach ed (Not applicable to raw materials, forgings, castings 
etc).   
5.7 Different packaging for different parts  
Critical and Sensitive goods  
The supplier shall:  
Ensure extra precautions are taken to goods or articles which are manufactured with ﬁne 
tolerances.   E. g. threaded bolts should be covered with a protective sleeve and holes must be 
protected to avoid dirt and mechanical damage. These items shall be pack aged individually 
with a correct label stating the serial number.  When these articles are consolidated they 
must be ﬁxed, secured and separated to avoid mechanical damage due to scratching, scufﬁng 
and indentations between articles or other damage created  by forces that could arise during 
transport, transshipment or handling.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
10 Hazardous goods  
The supplier shall:  
Materials to be shipped in accordance with international and local dangerous goods 
regulations shall always be packaged separately, marked and lab elled in accordance with the 
relevant applicable dangerous goods regulations. All other relevant regulations have also to be 
met e. g. dangerous materials regulations of the used transport modes.  
Goods requiring boxes  
The supplier shall:  
For items required to be packed in a box, the box itself should be of solid construction such as 
the two examples shown below, and be suitable for lifting with a forklift truck.  
 L
id should NOT be attached with nails. Use screws or metal straps around the box to hold the lid 
in place. This is because the lid needs to be removed in order to check the markings on the com-
ponent upon delivery to SE.
 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 11  
Wherever possible, component should be positioned in the box so that the component part 
markings are visible to the SE goods receiving department after the package lid is opened.
Parts packaged in a box should be secured in place using a wooden frame or similar method 
inside the box, to prevent it from moving about during transportation — see Figure below. Any 
supports that need to be removed in order to take the Part out of the box should be held in place 
with screws from the outside instead of nails — so not to destroy the box when the component
is being manoeuvred to check the identiﬁcation markin gs.
 
Goods that require VCI (Vapour Corrosion Inhibitor) protection, should have a solid piece of 
VCI in the box, have the component wrapped in VCI material, or have the box lined with VCI 
impregnated paper on all internal surfaces.  
 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
12 6 Labelling  
 
6.1 General labelling requirements  
The supplier shall:  
Ensure that the products are labelled to a standard that will provide adequate identification and 
traceability of the product  to the Certificate of Conformity and Packing Slips . The supplier shall 
ensure that pro ducts and packages are labelled in accordance with below details  
6.2 Packaging Label  
 
6.2.1  Packaging label information  
The supplier shall:  
 Ensure that the packaging label is  attached to all layers of packaging and contains the 
information shown below  
 
NOTE  1: The Label on the outside of the box  shall cover details mentioned in Table 6.2.2 
with Quantity  quoted as total number of parts in the package  for the Part number on the 
label .  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
13  
6.2.2  Packaging label requirements  
The supplier shall:  
Include the following packaging label Information as a basic (minimum)  
requirement and / or when applicable.  Required  When  
Applicable  Text + barcode  PNR - Part Number – Part Number is the identity for the subject part, assembly or 
material item and is specified on the Siemens purchase order.  
Data format is PNR [space], followed by the part number     
Description - Data format is the description of the product i.e. key words taken from the 
component definition.      
QTY – Quantity refers to the total quantity of items (e.g. 1, 5, 10, 100) contained within 
the package. Data format is QTY [space] followed by the total number of items. The unit 
of measure e.g. sets, rolls, kg/lbs, meters, feet etc) are only required when applicable.     
VC - Vendor Code - Data format is VC [space] followed by the supplier vendor code. 
(Allocated by Siemens Canada Ltd).     
COO  – Country of Origin – The Country of Origin is the country the parts were 
manufactured . Data format is COO  [space]  followed by the name of Country.    
BNR - Batch  Number – Batch  Number is the unique number allocated covering Quantity 
of goods or material produced in a single manufacturing run .  
Data format is B NR [space], followed by the number    
SER - Serial Number  – The Serial number is required on the label if the part is 
serialised, as instructed by the engineering component definition e.g.  drawing / 
Siemens technical specification, Data format is SER [space] followed by the unique 
serial number.   
 
MFR - Manufacturer  – When identified on the engineering component definition as 
‘CAGE’ or ‘MFR’, the five characters Commercial and government  entity (CAGE) code is 
required. This identifies the organization controlling the design and part number 
assignment of the product. Data format is MFR [space] followed by the five digit 
manufacturers code . The CAGE code for Siemens Energy is 35994  (refer t o relevant 
Engineering standards shown for applicability).     
 
DMF - Date of Manufacture – The Date of Manufacture is only  required  for the  shelf 
life Items . This must be the date the life limiting process was completed (e.g., etch date 
/ cure date / manufacture date , Lube date ). Data format is DMF [space], followed by 
day, month and year separated by a period (i.e., DD.MM.YYYY). Cure dated parts must 
state the material group (A, B, X etc.)     
 
 
Precautionary use data  e.g. Hazardous material.    
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
14  6
.3 Ship From and To address Label
The supplier shall:
 Ensure that the Ship From and to address Label is affixed to the final packaging/Box.
Example: 
 
6.4 Weight and Dimension s Label  
The supplier shall:  
 Ensure that the label showing Weight and Dimension s is affixed  to the final packaging /Box. 
 Weight shall be stated in Kilograms and will be inclusive of packaging material.  
 
 
6.5 Labelling for boxes supplied within master/final box and for the m aster/ final box.  
The supplier shall:  
 Ensure that below listed labels are affixed  permanently  to each box contained in Master/ final 
box  
o Packaging Label  
o Weight and Dimension Label   
 Ensure that the below listed labels are affixed  permanently to the Master/ final box containing 
multiple boxes  
o Packaging Label s showing total Quantity per part  
o Total Weight and Dimension Label showing details of Master/ Final box . 
NOTE  1: The Label on the outside of the Box is used by Goods receipt team to sort and fast 
track urgent parts through the receipt process and also deta ils are checked against the 
Packing slip.  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
15  
6.6 Labelling information for release documentation  
The supplier shall:  
• Refer to EBQR release documentation  section  for the details of the information to be 
stated on release documentation  
• Ensure that all information provided with the product e.g. labels, release documentation, 
references on the packaging etc., is stated in English unless otherwise authorised by the 
Siemens region receiving the goods . The suppliers from Canada can  use either French or 
English.  
• Enclose the release documentation with the component in the Box.  
 
7 Health, Safety, and Environmental (HS&E)  
      General HS&E  
 This standard does not purport to address all of the safety concerns, if any associated 
with its u se. It is the responsibility of the user of this standard to establish appropriate 
safety and  health practices, and to determine these limitations prior to use.  
 The materials used in the packaging shall not be harmful to personnel and shall not 
require  any special health precautions.  
 Wooden boxes shall be free from splintered edges, exposed nails (no heads or tips), 
staples  and screws.  
 All packaging shall provide a safe means of storage clearly identifying any stacking  
Limitations . 
 All materials shall have a low adverse impact on the environment - materials which 
present  disposal problems in the location of delivery shall not be used.  
 The method of packaging shall enable removal of parts without risk to persons or the  
Packaged  item, with particular attention  being paid to the protection of sharp edges 
and machined surfaces which present particular problems during unpacking.  
 A caution label indicating HEAVY sh all be applied to all boxes over 25 Kg . 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
16  
8 Examples of Acceptable  and Non -acceptable packaging  
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
17  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
18  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
19  
 
Pictorial View of Packaging and labelling (Example)  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
20  
 
9 Checklist
The supplier shall:
•     Develop the checklist provided further to the type of parts supplied to SE.
• Ensure Audit is completed using your checklist and actions are taken to address issues identified.
 •    A Tracker is maintained and shared with SE when requested.
 
Please double click on the Icon to open the Checklist   
 
 
Or  
 
 
Right Click on the Icon to save embedded file to the Disk.  
 
 
Template Icon  
 
 
 
  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
 
21  
10 Reference guides for proper packaging  per commodity: -   
Appendix A : - Casings (including combustion components)  
 
 
 
 
  
First Level packaging :  
•Polythene Film  
 
Dunnage :  
• Bubble Wrap  
Primary & Secondary Packaging :  
• Reusable container designed for casing  
• Wood / Plywood case  
• Double or Triple wall Carton frame 
container  
*** Special Attention ***  
• Casing shall be immobilized within the 
case / carton  
• Protection shall be provide d to flange 
face. 
• The Label as required by the guidelines.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.