NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS    
 
   
© Siemens AG 2015. All rights reserved  Page  1 of 3 
 
 
 
Subject: Update on Logistics model transformation  
 
Originator: Jay Jacobs   
NTS Number: SC001 
Job Title: Senior Manager, Supply Chain Operations   Issue: 00 4 
Product Line: Aero Derivative Gas Turbine (A DGT) Date: 28th November 2015  
Siemens Business Unit: Siemens Canada Limited   
 
For the attention of the Account Management Team  
 
Dear Sir or Madam  
 
Scope  
 
This NTS is applicable to shipments to Siemens Canada Limited and ITCL for GT parts  
 
Introduction  
 
On November 23rd we implemented  a new logistics model  marking another milestone in the transition of the Rolls 
Royce Energy business to Siemens.   This was / is a large undertaking and not without its challenges .  Today markes 
the end of the first week of operation under the new model for the GT parts supply chain.   The following learning and 
corrections need to be taken note of for future operations.  
 
UPS inbound transport to K&N cross dock from UK based suppliers  
 
Some of you have no doubt been successful  in booking your inbound shipments, but others have not.   Please take 
note  of the fact that it’s a  two-step  process.   First register the shipment on the web interface  (type the link below in 
your browser , a cut and paste may not wo rk),  
 
Canada URL --- https://row.ups.com/Default.aspx?Company=SIEMENS -CA&LoginId=siemens -ca&Password=ca -siemens  
ITCL URL --- https://row.ups.com/Default.aspx?Company=Siemens -EMEA&LoginId=Siemens -BP&Password=Siemens -BP! 
 
Siemens Canada example  below  
 
 
 
Clicking on the “Process  Shipment ” button at the  bottom will generate a label  for the shipment and you can print it , 
this completes step 1.  You must then click the link below to schedule a shipment , this will complete step 2 and your 
shipment should be picked up that afternoon or the next morning.  

  
 
 
 Page  2 of 3 
 
_  
 
 
  
 
 
There have  been some issues concerning the use of palettes  for shipment with the UPS service. You can put multiple 
part number s on a pallet if they are in separate boxes.  Each box needs a separate entry in the sys tem and has its own 
label.  You have 3 boxes of the same part number on the same PO, that’s 3 shipments and three entries and labels.  
We suggest that the boxes are present ed loose for pick up buy UPS unless they require a pallet for support so as not to 
dama ge the part  or because  of shipment weight .  Pallets need to be Euro pallets (1200mm x 800mm).   If UPS rejects 
your shipment please schedule the Shipment with TNT ASAP and advise Jay.Jacobs@Siemens.com  of the details of 
the shipment refusal.  
 
 
 
International shipments Inbound to the UK over 200Kgs  fewer than  500 Kgs  
 
Please use TNT for these shipments.  

  
 
 
 Page  3 of 3 
 
_ 
 
Correction to  Postal Code  
 
Please be advised that there was an error in the postal code for the facility  below, th is is the correct address and 
postal cod e. 
 
Siemens Canada Limited  
c/o Thyssenkrupp Aerospace Canada Ltd  
16255 Coun ty Road 2, Long Sault, ON K0C 1 P0 
 
 
 
 
 
Any issues please email me at  jay.jacobs@siemens.com  
 
 
With kind regards,  
 
  
 
 
 
Signature   