NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS    
 
   
© Siemens AG 2015. All rights reserv ed  Page  1 of 1 
 
 
 
Subject: Logistics/Warehouse Improvements  
 
Originator: Jay Jacobs   
NTS Number: SC011 
Job Title: Senior Manager, Supply Chain Operations  Issue: 001  
Product Line: Aero Derivative Gas  T urbine (AGT)  Date: 4th November  2016 
Siemens Business Unit: Siemens Canada Limited   
 
For the attention of the Account Management Team  
 
Dear Sir or Madam  
 
SCOPE  
 
This notice is applicable to all of our supply chain partners who currently ship parts to Siemens Canada Limited , with a final  
destination of that of our third part logistic provider, Thyssenkrupp Aerospace Canada Ltd at 16255 County Road 2, Long 
Sault, ON K0C 1M0.  
 
Message  
 
Please be advised that Siemens Canada has decided , effective December 1st 2016 , that we will no longer receive shipments 
at this address.  Instead , we will be consolidating all of our inventory at our facility in Montreal , close to the manufacturing of 
our engines.  As such , we request that you make the n ecessary arrangements in your own records and systems to ship our  
orders to the following address for deliveries expected as of December 1st 2016.   
 
Siemens Canada Limited  
2200 rue Courval, Lachine, QC H8T 3H1 , Dock C4  
 
Those of you who are currently using UPS or TNT to transport  your shipments to our UK consolidator (K&N) will continue to 
do so with the same process, simply make the changes to you shipping paperwork to reflect the new final destination 
address above.  
 
Those  vendors that were shipping directly to the TKA facility previously should now ship directly to the Montreal facility using the 
same courier arrangements.  The only change is the final destination address.   As both the old and the new destination are in 
Canada no changes to the transportation se rvice providers or any other logistics related arrangements are required or expected.  
 
Please not e that these changes do not affect in any way your current shipments to Industrial Turbine Company (UK) Ltd., c/o 
Schenker Ltd at Kelsey Close, Attleborough Fi elds Industrial Estate, Nuneaton, CV11 6XN United Kingdom.  
 
If you have any questions please contact either myself at jay.jacobs@siemens.com  or the applicable MRPC responsible for your 
portfolio of parts.  
 
With kind regards,  
 
  
 
 
Jay Jacobs  
 
 
Senior Manager, Supply chain operations  
Siemens Canada Limited  
  
