NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS    
 
   
© Siemens AG 2015. All rights reserved  Page  1 of 3 
 
 
 
Subject: New requirements labeling and paperwork for Serialized P/N  
 
Originator: Jay Jacobs   
NTS Number: SC023  
Job Title: Senior Manager, Supply Chain Operations  Issue: 001  
Product Line: Aero Derivative Gas Turbine (AGT)  Date: 11th June  2019 
Siemens Business Unit: Siemens Canada Limited   
 
For the attention of the Managing Director  
 
Dear Sir or Madam  
 
In an effort to  optimize the inbound receiving process of all goods received from our supply chain partners we have 
reviewed our current operating procedures and have identified a couple of initiatives that will benefit Suppliers and 
Siemens.  
Many of you already affix a label to the outside of your packages which indicates basic order information like Order 
Number and Part Number.  We would like the serial number of the unit in the package included in the information on 
the label.  This is requested when there is only 1 unit in the package.  If there is more than 1 unit in the package, we 
request that a sheet be placed in the package with the material showing the individual serial numbers of the material 
in Bar Code format.  This will enable Siemens to speed up the  receiving process and process your payments without 
related issues.  The following guidelines should be applied going forward.  
 
Please note the Packaging and labeling Siemens guidelines is being updated to reflect these requirements for 
serialization.  
 
General labelling requirements for Serialized parts  
 
The supplier shall:  
Ensure that products are labelled to a standard that will provide adequate identification and traceability of the product.  
 
D Bar code standards for all labels  
The supplier shall:  
Ensure that bar -code symbology to code 128 (preferred) to ISO/ IEC 15417 symbology specification, or  
code 39 to ISO / IEC 16388 is used and is legible / readable.  
 
• Ensure that all human -readable identification (text) associated with the bar -code markings h as a height equal 
to or greater than 2.0 mm and can be read clearly without magnification   
• Ensure that the human readable identification is positioned anywhere above or below the bar -code providing 
that the "quiet zone" is not invalidated   
• Ensure that the human readable interpretation is contained in a one-line string of characters  
• Ensure that the height of bar is 5mm minimum, but where space is limited, 3 mm minimum is acceptable.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 Page  2 of 3 
 
_  
 
Text Element Identifiers (TEI) for all Labels  
 
The supplier shall:  
• Ensure that the text element identifiers (see below for acceptable  TEIs) are used to identify the text being 
read. The TEI shall consist of the characters followed by a space. The bar code, when read, must display 
exactly the human readable text - including the ‘TEI’.  
Packaging label information  
The supplier shall:  
• Ensure that the packaging labels are attached to all layers of packaging.  
• Mandatory information to provide on the label : Release note number, Purchase order Number, Part 
Number, Qty, PO item number, Plant and Serial number.  
 
• Serial number bar code should be provided for every part within the package.  
 
 
NOTE: See below for packaging label Information that shall be included on the label as a basic (minimum) 
requirement and / or when applicable.   
Packaging label requirements  
The supplier shall:  

  
 
 
 Page  3 of 3 
 
_ • Include the following packaging label Information as a basic (minimum) requirement and / or when 
applicable.  
• Include a sheet in the package showing the individual serial numbers in Bar Code format when the quantity  
is greater than 1 piece  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With kind regards,  
 
  
 
 
 
Signature   
