Grid automation Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Grid automation Do you want to reduce your complexity? We support you with our digital portfolio to enable fully digital and automated power systems. We support industry leaders to tackle grid challenges of today and tomorrow, by providing digital, vendor-agnostic, and cybersecure grid automation solutions. Siemens Energy is your trusted partner in every step of the project lifecycle for grid and substation automation. Design & Engineering Expertise in conventional and digital control & protection system, with design based on all latest standards (e.g., IEC61850) for process bus applications​. Advanced cybersecurity concept implementation. Hardware selection & supply Supplying IEDs, MUs, network switches, etc. without vendor ties for your substation control and automation system. Integration of hardware and configuration according to customer requirements. Commissioning & testing On site and remote project support on FAT, commissioning, maintenance and troubleshooting for systems with process bus. We empower you to become a future-ready, sustainable industry leader – by providing cutting-edge, digital grid automation and grid management solutions. Substation of the future, digital automation system Why transitioning to a digital substation? Enhanced sustainability Reduced use of copper Lower number of cabinets Smaller land footprint of substations Safer operations Less interaction with measuring loops Smaller energized measurement circuit Less people on site Higher efficiency Less hardware that needs upgrade and remote upgrades Remote or online testing Lower number of terminals Our comprehensive offering enables you to take the next step towards a digital substation. Protection Design, installation & commissioning, system parameterization & configuring, testing. Implementation of protection system with traditional as well as process bus as per IEC 61850. Automation & cybersecurity Substation & secondary system design, hardware & software specification, IED and system configuration, installation & commissioning. Cybersecurity concept and design, configuration, implementation, integration of system and testing. ISO27001 certified. Grid management software End-to-end system (SCADA, EMS, ADMS, DERMS etc.) for customers. Design, concept, system selection, configuration, installation and commissioning. Project management Overall project coordination, system engineering​. System installation, on-site testing and commissioning. Why we are your trusted partner Our references Future control center Converter dominated power system with 100% renewable generation. Market design with flexibility and ancillary services down to 1 min. interval  power balancing and frequency control under islanded and net zero scenario. Voltage and local area control in a low inertia. Onshore substation Preparation of design and engineering solutions. Project management of control and protection on substation and telecoms. Future substation The first substation in the world to combine digitalization and eco-efficiency ​on this scale: Low-power instrument transformers Digital process bus for control and protection Digital power transformers Offshore wind farm Provision of control technology, central IT network, cybersecuriy solutions, and long-term service. Contributes to carbon neutrality in the power supply. Get in contact with our experts Our comprehensive offering enables you to take the next step towards a digital substation. Do you need help on a concrete project? Do you need a quote for any of our products and solutions? Do you need support for your installed equipment? Do you have a technical question? Do you need something totally different? You can contact us 24/7. We are looking forward to your call or online request. Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025