 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-1-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
I. Introductory Provisions  
 
1. These Terms and Conditions for Orders (hereinafter 
only as the “Terms and Conditions”) are the terms and 
conditions within the meaning of the Section 1751 et 
seq. of Act No. 89/2012 Coll., the Civil Code 
(hereinafter only as the “Civil Code”). These Terms and 
Conditions shall govern the legal relationship that has 
arisen between Siemens Energy , s.r.o., as the 
customer for work (hereinafter only as “ Siemens 
Energy ” or the “customer”) and the supplier of work 
(hereinafter only as the “supplier”), regardless of the 
fact of what specific type of contract is arrange d 
between them. The specification of the performed work 
(hereinafter only as the “supply”  or “works” ) is defined 
by the contract.  
 
2. In the event of a discrepancy between these Terms 
and Conditions and the Terms and Conditions of the 
supplier, these Terms and Conditions shall prevail.  
 
3. In the event of a discrepancy between the specific 
terms set out in Annex No. 3 and Articles I to XV of 
these Terms and Conditions, the specific terms set out 
in Annex No. 3 shall prevail  
 
4. The supplier explicitly confirms that he has read, 
understood and agreed with the Article III, Section 
4 and 5, Article V, Section 11, Article VI, Section 1, 
Article VIII and Article XV, Section 5, 6 and 10 of 
these Terms and Conditions.   
 
II. Creation of the Contractual Relationship 
between the Customer and the Supplier – Order 
and Acceptance (Confirmation) of the Order  
 
1. The contractual relationship between the customer 
and the supplier shall arise as of the issuance of a 
written order by the customer (hereinafter only as “a 
proposal of the contract”) and the written unconditional 
acceptance of the order by the supplier (hereinafter 
only as the “order confirmation”). The order 
confirmation requires a written form ; otherwise it is 
invalid . 
 
2. The customer shall have the right to cancel or 
change the order in writing at any time prior to its 
confirmation by the supplier.  
 
3. If the confirmation of the order and/or the 
performance by the supplier deviates from the content 
of the order, the customer shall be bound by the 
deviation only if he has expressly approved such deviation from the order in writing to the supplier. 
Neither the acceptance of performance from the 
supplier nor payment by the customer for such 
performance shall mean an approval.   
 
III. Price, Payment Terms and Setoff  
 
1. The price is a final price. The price shall include all 
of the supplier’s costs necessary for the proper 
performance of the work . The price also includes any 
fee for granting of the right to utilize the software and 
firmware, if such software or firmware is a part of the 
supply.  
 
2. The customer shall have an obligation to pay the 
supplier on the basis of a tax document (hereinafter 
only as the “invoice”). The invoice must also contain 
correct VAT rate , delivery note number  as well as the 
customer’s order number, as well as the numbers (and 
relevant material designations (codes)) of each item. In 
case the domestic reverse charge regime is applicable, 
the invoice must include code of the taxable supplies 
according to the rele vant instructions of the GFŘ 
(Generální finanční ředitelstv í). The customer is 
entitled to return any invoice which is incorrectly 
prepared, incomplete or unsupported with relevant 
documents within the due period without being 
considered late with the payment.  
 
3. The supplier shall have an obligation to issue an 
invoice as of the date of the performance of taxable 
supply  in accordance with the relevant legislation .  
 
4. The payment deadline of the invoice is stipulated as 
60 days from the delivery of the invoice to the 
customer. The price shall be paid to the supplier’s bank 
account specified in the contract and  made available 
by the tax authority in remote matter and  is 
administered by the provider of payment services 
inland. Application of the paragraph 9 of this Article is 
not excluded.  The customer’s debt is settled as of the 
debiting of the amount from the customer’s account. In 
the event of a delay in payment on  the part of the 
customer for a period of up to 7 days, the supplier 
shall not be entitled to charge late interest.  
 
5. In the event that the customer pays the invoiced 
price within the period from 31st to 45th day from 
the date of delivery of the invoice, the supplier shall 
provide the customer with a discount on the price 
in the amount of 0.5% of the invoiced amount (with 
VAT). In the event that the customer pays the 
invoiced price within the period from 15th to 30th 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-2-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
day from the date of delivery of the invoice, the 
supplier shall provide the customer with a discount 
on the price in the amount of 1% of the invoiced 
amount (with VAT). In the event that the customer 
pays the invoiced price within the period of 14 days 
from the date of delivery of the invoice, the supplier 
shall provide the customer with a discount on the 
price in the amount of 1.5% of the invoiced amount 
(with VAT). In such a case, the customer shall have 
the right to pay the invoiced price reduced by the  
relevant discount. In case the customer pays later 
due to a warranty claim, his right to a price 
discount remains unchanged.  
 
6. The supplier shall have the right to set off its claims 
that are due for payment, enforceable, not statute -
barred, that are not disputed between the parties, and 
under the condition that the set off was approved by 
the customer in writing. The customer shall have the 
right to set off , by a written declaration made to the 
supplier, any of its due and undue claims  against any 
due and undue claims of the supplier . The supplier 
shall not be entitled to assign any claim against the 
customer to any third party  without prior written 
consent of the customer.  Claims in different currencies 
can be set off at the exchange rate set by the Czech 
National Bank as at the date of the setoff.  
 
7. The payment of the price by the customer is under 
the condition that the supplier is not in delay in any 
payment in regard to it for supplies that were supplied 
by the customer to the supplier even on the basis of 
another contractual relationship. For t he duration of 
such delay on the part of the supplier, the customer is 
not in delay in the payment of the price and the agreed 
deadline for payment shall be appropriately extended 
by the time corresponding to the duration of the above -
stated delay on the p art of the supplier.  
 
8. Upon request by the customer in justified cases (e.g. 
in the case of the supplier’s insolvency), the supplier 
shall provide documentary evidence that it is making 
proper VAT payments. Until the time of the delivery of 
such evidence, the customer shall be entitled to 
postpone the payment for the provided supply, without 
this causing a dela y in payment to occur. Application of 
the following paragraph is not excluded.  
 
9. Should the supplier be declared as of the date of the 
performance of taxable supply as an unreliable tax 
payer according to VAT legislation or should the 
customer be in good faith that the supplier is in a 
position that would otherwise establish the cus tomer’s liability for unpaid VAT, the customer shall be entitled 
to a) pay the supplier the price of a supply without the 
sum equal to the relevant amount of VAT, or b) pay the 
VAT for the supply directly to the account of the 
relevant tax authority.  
 
10. The supplier shall provide the customer with the 
necessary cooperation in the customer’s dealings in 
regard to the tax authority, which shall consist primarily 
in the due and timely provision of truthful information 
and documents and in support in the customer’s 
dealings with the tax authority, should the tax authority 
raise a claim against the customer under the title of its 
liability for VAT, or should the customer voluntarily pay 
VAT for a supply under this contract.  
 
IV. Handover and Takeover of the Supply  
 
1. The supply shall be taken over:  
a) In the case of supplies without installation: as of 
written confirmation of delivery (including unloading) of 
the complete object of the supply to the place of 
destination according to the confirmed order;  
b) In the case of supplies with installation: as of written 
confirmation of takeover of the complete object of 
supply by the customer.  
 
2. In the case of the supply of technical equipment and 
devices, the supplier undertakes to train the customer’s 
or end customer’s operating and maintenance 
personnel. Further, the supplier undertakes to supply 
the necessary documents in regard to the supply 
(primarily complete installat ion plans including all 
connections and construction necessities, datasheets, 
installation manuals, processing instructions, storage 
and operating regulations and maintenance 
regulations, etc.). All documents delivered by the 
supplier must be provided no l ater than along with the 
supply, in duplicate in the Czech language, or in the 
English language. Upon request by the customer, the 
supplier shall have an obligation to also supply, without 
charge, another language version of the provided 
documents.  
 
3. In the event that the object of the contract is product 
set out in the implementing regulations to Act No. 
22/1997 Coll., on Technical Requirements for 
Products, the supplier shall have an obligation to 
provide the customer with a copy of the Declaratio n of 
Conformity or the written Assurance of Issuance of 
Declaration of Conformity, no later than within the 
agreed performance deadline. Further, the supplier 
shall have an obligation, in the course of the 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-3-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
performance of the contract, to enable the customer to 
inspect the degree of completion of the object of 
performance.  
 
4. The customer shall have the right at any time to call 
upon the supplier by written notice to suspend the 
performance of the contract. The supplier shall have an 
obligation, upon receipt of such notice, to suspense all 
work until the time when it receive s a written notice 
from the customer calling upon it to continue in the 
performance.  
 
5. For the first 90 days from the date of the suspension 
of the performance of the contract, the supplier shall 
not have the right to require the payment of a storage 
fee or other costs that it incurs as a result of the same. 
Deadlines for the performance of the contract shall be 
extended reasonably by the time of the duration of the 
suspension of performance.  
 
6. If there is a threat of delay on the part of the supplier, 
the supplier shall have an obligation to immediately 
inform the customer of such fact and request its 
instructions.  
 
7. In the case of a delay by the supplier in the 
performance of the contract, the supplier shall have an 
obligation to pay the customer a contractual penalty in 
the amount of 0.3% of the price of the relevant 
performance (with VAT) for each day of delay. T he 
agreement on  the contractual penalty shall not affect 
the customer’s right to the compensation of damage 
exceeding the contractual penalty.  
 
8. The place of performance is the place stated in the 
order. The time of performance is business day from 
8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.  
 
9. The supplier shall have the right to arrange for the 
performance of the supply by way of a sub -supplier  
only with the previous consent of the customer.  
 
10. If the nature of the specific part of the supply allows 
it, the supply or its part can also be performed by way 
of so -called remote access. The supplier shall bear the 
costs associated with remote access.  
 
11. The supplier shall only have the right to perform the 
supply prior to the agreed time of performance with the 
express written consent of the customer.  
 
 V. Delivery of the Supply, Passage of Ownership 
Right, Passage of Risk of Damage  
 
1.  The supplier shall supply the supply at its own cost 
and risk to the agreed place of supply. “Collect on 
delivery” shipments shall not be accepted. The supply 
must be packed in such a way to prevent it from 
damaging during the transport and from damagi ng 
human´s health and property.  
 
2. The supplier shall attach a delivery note to the supply 
with all of the data from the order, such as the order 
number, part numbers, and the exact designation of 
the goods, order item and, in the case of supplies from 
the European Union countries, the c ustoms tariffs of 
goods.  The supply shall also include a filled in 
supplier’s Declaration for the purposes of export and 
customs controls, and further, documents evidencing 
the origin of the goods, serving for the purposes of 
customs, re -export, etc.  
 
3. In the event that the costs of the transport of the 
supply to the agreed place of performance are to be 
paid, according to the confirmed order, by the 
customer, the supplier shall have the right to charge 
the customer only for those costs that the custo mer has 
approved in advance.  
 
4. In the event that the costs of the transport of the 
supply to the place of destination are to be paid by the 
customer, the supply shall  be insured with damage 
insurance by Customer  global transport insurance 
(GTV) with worldwide application, whereby the supplier 
must notify the customer in advance about the 
transport of each individual shipment in an equivalent 
value of over EUR 10  million, and/or transportation with 
a total duratio n (including the time of storage in 
transport) of over 60 days. . If the  transport of supplies 
under the said circumstances is being arranged by the 
supplier, it shall have an obligation to abide by 
Customer -GTV insurance, primarily to also prevent the 
duplication of such insurance. The customer shall not 
pay excess insurance premiums. However, this 
provision shall not rule out any general liability of the 
supplier for damage on supplies in the course of thei r 
transport.  
 
5. If the transport is performed by a carrier 
commissioned by the customer, the supplier will inform 
the carrier of the necessary data concerning 
dangerous goods.  
 
6. The supplier shall have an obligation to ensure that:  
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-4-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
a) The supply will be provided with a packaging list or 
delivery note with clear data on the content as well as 
with the complete number (mark) of the customer’s 
order;  
b) Every part of the shipment (so -called colli) will be 
provided with clear data on the package regarding the 
content, as well as the customer’s complete order 
number (mark);  
c) The customer or receiver was informed (notified) in 
writing without delay, at least 1 business day in 
advance, of the dispatch of a supply whose receipt in 
the place of destination requires the 
presence/cooperation of its receiver, together with 
clear i nformation on the content, as well as the 
complete order number (mark).  
 
7. Ownership right and risk of damage to supply shall 
pass on the customer:  
a) In the case of the supplies without installation: as of 
written confirmation of takeover (delivery including 
unloading) of an undamaged supply to the place of 
destination according to a confirmed order;  
b) In the case of supplies with installation: as of the 
signing of the takeover protocol by the customer.  
 
8. Materials owned by the customer and provided to 
the supplier for the purpose of the execution of the 
supply shall remain in the ownership of the customer, 
must be separately stored, marked and 
administratively recorded at no other extra cost to the 
customer. Their utilization is permissible only for the 
fulfillment  of the supplier’s obligations to the customer. 
In the case of their depreciation or loss, the supplier 
shall have an obligation, at its own cost, to procure and 
apply the corresponding compens ation.  
 
9. The processing and/or modification of materials of 
the customer are conducted solely for the customer. 
The customer is directly the owner or co -owner of the 
modified material, intermediate good or new item. 
Should it not be possible for legal reasons, i t shall be 
assumed that the customer is, at each moment of 
processing or modification, the owner of each new 
item. The supplier shall have an obligation to take care 
of each such new item for the customer without extra 
charge with a professional care until  its handing over 
to the customer.  
 
10. Tools, forms, samples, models, profiles, drawings, 
standards, style sheets, instructions in any form that 
the customer provides, as well as objects 
manufactured according to them, cannot, without the 
customer’s written permission, be provided to third parties, or used for other purposes than according to 
this contract. The supplier must these protect (secure) 
against unauthorized viewing or utilization and he must 
these mark with the customer’s name if technically 
possible. With the reservation of other  rights, the 
customer can require their release if the supplier 
breaches such obligations.  
 
11. The Supplier shall assume the risk of changes 
of circumstances according to Sections 1764 to 
1766 of the Civil Code.  
 
 
VI. Warranty for Quality, Liability for Defects  
 
1. The supplier shall provide the customer with a 
warranty for quality for the supplied supplies for 
duration of 3 years whereby the warranty period 
shall commence as of the moment of the passage 
of the risk of damage .  
 
2. In the case of supplies that are further supplied by 
the customer to a third party, without having been 
used, the warranty period shall commence only as of 
the takeover of the supply by the relevant third party, 
but ends no later than 3 years after the passage of the 
risk of damage to the customer.  
 
3. The supplier also undertakes that his performance 
shall be in accordance with the requirements of the ISO 
9001, ISO 14001 , ISO 27001  and ISO 45001  
standards. Certificates confirming compliance with 
these standards must be available on the supplier’s 
web site. If the supplier doesn’t possess these 
certificates , he is obliged to act in accordance with 
those standards.  The customer is entitled to conduct 
an audit at the supplier to verify his compliance with the 
requirements. The supplier undertakes to comp ly with 
all customer’s policies, guides, regulations, guidelines 
and instructions of which he has been informed.  
 
4. In the case of a defect that was ascertained before 
the passage of the risk of damage  or appeared within 
the warranty period, the supplier shall have an 
obligation, at its own cost and according to the 
customer’s choice, to either eliminate such defect  or to 
supply new supply within 5 business days. This 
provision shall also apply to supplies for which the 
acceptance inspection was only limited to the random 
inspection of samples or identity. The supplier shall 
have an obligation to send the customer in formation 
regarding the remedial measures that it has taken in 
order to prevent a recurrence of the mistakes in a 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-5-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
format as required by the customer. The deadline for 
the sending of the information shall be 2 business days 
from the receipt of the warranty claim.  
 
5. If the supplier fails to perform the elimination of the 
defect, or a replacement of the supply, even after being 
granted a reasonable additional time by the customer, 
the customer shall have the right:  
a) To withdraw from the contract in full or in part;  
b) To require the granting of a discount; or  
c) At the supplier’s cost, either itself or through a third 
party, to proceed with the elimination of the defect or to 
arrange a replacement supply, whereby the supplier’s 
obligations under the quality warranty and under 
liability for defects shall not be affected t hereby.  
6. The customer shall have the right to impose a 
contractual penalty against the supplier for defective 
performance of the subject of the contract in the 
amount of 15% of the price. The customer’s right to 
compensation of damage exceeding the contractual 
penalty shall not be affected  by agreement on the 
contractual penalty . 
 
7. The elimination of the defect at the supplier’s cost 
can occur even without the provision of an additional 
time to the supplier, if the supplier has been already in 
delay with his performance.  
 
8. On the basis of a written notification by the customer 
has the supplier an obligation to reimburse the 
customer for the costs incurred in a consequence with 
the breach of the supplier’s obligation and for the costs 
of elimination of all defects of the s upply. That shall 
also apply accordingly to the costs ineffectually 
expended by the customer for processing or 
modification of supply for the purpose as set out above.  
 
9. The customer shall have the right to assert warranty 
claims for defects of the supply as follows:   
a) Within 1 month of the passage of the risk of damage; 
or 
b) Within 1 month of the ascertainment of defects, if the 
supply was yet unused and the defects were 
ascertained only in its further processing or 
modification, or in its supply to a third party.  
 
10. The rules set out above shall also apply to a 
corresponding extent to supplies constituting a repair 
according to the paragraph 4.  
 
11. The costs associated with a warranty claim 
including its transport shall be borne by the supplier.  
 12. The supplier shall have an obligation, for a period 
of 10 years from the performance of the supply, to 
perform or arrange, for a reasonable payment, the 
post-warranty repairs, including the procurement of 
replacement parts, if it ensues from the nature of the 
supplies. The supplier shall have an obligation to 
inform the customer without a delay in case he is not 
able to keep the above commitment and to provide it 
with a replacement solution under similar conditions.  
 
VII. Licensing Arrangements  
 
1. If, as its part, the supply includes software or another 
product protected by copyright (hereinafter only as the 
“copyright work”), including associated knowledge and 
know -how for their utilization, the customer shall have 
the right and obligation to handle such copyright work 
in the manner as set out below.  
 
2. The supplier shall inform the customer - at the latest 
at the time the order is confirmed - whether the 
products and services to be delivered contain “Open 
Source Software". “Open Source Software” means any 
software that is provided royalty -free by the respective 
licensor to any user on the basis of a license or another 
agreement with the right to modify and/or to distribute 
such software. Open License Terms include for 
example the following licenses: the GNU, General 
Public License (GPL), the GNU Lesser  GPL (LGPL), 
the BSD License, the Apache License or the MIT 
License. Should the supply contain open source 
software, the supplier must deliver to the customer at 
the latest at the time the order is confirmed the 
following: the source code of the relevant o pen source 
software, insofar as the applicable open source 
conditions require the disclosure of this source code; a 
list of all open source files used, indicating the relevant 
license and including a copy of the complete text of 
such license; a written dec laration that through the 
intended use of the open source software neither the 
products of the supplier nor the products of the 
customer will be subject to a “Copyleft Effect”. Should 
the supplier not indicate until issuing order confirmation 
that its supp ly contains open source software, the 
customer is entitled to withdraw the order within 14 
days of receipt of this information or receipt of such 
information and its verification. The customer’s right to 
compensation of damage shall not be affected.  
 
3. The supplier hereby grants the customer the 
following nonexclusive, transferrable, worldwide and 
time-unlimited rights to:  
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-6-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
a) the use of supplies, their integration into other 
products and their worldwide distribution;  
b) the provision of a sublicense for the use or 
permission to third parties to use the copyright work 
and related documentation in connection with the 
installation, commissioning, testing and operation of 
the copyright work;  
c) the provision of a sublicense for rights of use also to 
persons controlling the customer or controlled by the 
customer or to other persons within the Customer  
group;  
d) the use of the copyright work for integration into 
other products;  
e) distribution, making reproductions (All backup 
copies are subject to this license agreement. All 
names, trademarks, copyrights (©, ®) and information 
on the restriction of user's rights must be reproduced 
on such copies.), sale, loaning, renting of the cop yright 
work, the provision of the copyright work for 
downloading or making it accessible to public, e.g. 
within the meaning of the provision of application 
services or within a different sense, and the copying of 
the copyright work in the necessary exte nt, but always 
under the precondition that the number of licenses 
used at one moment cannot exceed the number of 
purchased licenses;  
f) in addition to the rights granted above, the persons 
set out in section c) shall have the right to permit end 
users to transmit licenses for the use of the copyright 
work.  
 
4. All sublicenses granted by the customer must 
contain the relevant protection of intellectual property 
rights that the supplier owns. All sublicenses must 
contain contractual provisions utilized by the customer 
for the protection of its own intellectual property rights.  
 
5. The supplier declares that it has the right to grant the 
rights to the copyright work as set out above, and it 
primarily declares that it has settled all of the necessary 
copyrights of third parties.  
 
VIII. Compensation of Damage Incurred by the 
Supplier  
 
1. The total scope of the customer’s obligations to 
compensate the supplier for harm (damage) on 
assets (damage) caused that the supplier incurred 
in connection with the performance of the contract 
or the breach of a legal regulation shall be limited 
up to the amount of 10% of the total contractual 
price (without VAT), for all loss events in their 
aggregate. Only actual damage shall be compensated; neither lost profit nor other types of 
damage shall be compensated. The damage shall 
be compensated preferentiall y in money. Any 
contractual penalties or other penalties paid by the 
customer to the supplier shall be set off against 
compensation of damage in full. The statute of 
limitation period to claim damages shall be 1 year.   
 
IX. Withdrawal from the Contract  
 
1. The parties to the contract can only withdraw from 
the contract in cases of a significant breach of the 
contract or in cases expressly set out in the contract or 
in these Terms and Conditions or in cases explicitly 
stated in legal regulations.  Withdraw al is effective as 
of the date of delivery of a written notice of withdrawal 
to the other party to the contract.  
 
2. A significant breach of the contract shall be 
considered to mean:  
a) A delay on the part of the supplier in the performance 
of the supply for more than 20 days. In the event of a 
delay, the customer shall notify the supplier of whether 
it insists upon the performance of the supply. If the 
customer insists upon its perfor mance, it can withdraw 
from the contract only after the ineffectual elapse of an 
additional period given to the supplier;  
b) A delay on the part of the customer in the payment 
of an invoiced amount that is greater than 90 days;  
c)  A breach of obligations set out in Article XI of these 
Terms and Conditions.  
 
3. A party to the contract shall also have the right to 
withdraw from the contract effective as of the date of 
delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the other 
party to the contract, if:                
a) A competent insolvency court has issued a decision 
on the insolvency of the other party to the contract;  
b) A competent insolvency court has rejected a petition 
for the issuance of a decision on insolvency, for a lack 
of assets of the other party to the contract;  
c) The other party to the contract has stopped its 
payments;  
d) The other party to the contract has filed a petition 
with an insolvency court for the issuance of a decision 
on insolvency in regard to such other party to the 
contract;  
e) Performance of a decision or execution has been 
conducted unavailingly on the assets of the other party 
to the contract;  
f) The other party became an unreliable tax payer 
according to VAT legislation.  
 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-7-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
4. The parties to the contract shall also have the right 
to withdraw from the contract in the event that a force 
majeure circumstance is preventing the 
implementation of the supply for a period of more than 
3 months.  
 
5. The customer shall also have the right to withdraw 
from the contract in the event that the supplier is in a 
delay with the fulfillment  of his obligations under a 
different contract and such a delay is greater than 30 
days.  
 
6. The customer shall also have the right to withdraw 
from the contract if he pays the supplier the purchase 
price of all of the already supplied supply and semi -
finished supply as of the effective date of the 
withdrawal from the contract. In such case, th e supplier 
shall have an obligation to deliver such supply to the 
customer.  
 
 
X. Confidentiality, Personal Data Protection  
 
1. “Confidential  information“ shall be understood to 
mean any information or data designated by the party 
to the contract who is providing the information as 
“Confidential ” or similarly described, and further, 
primarily any commercial or technical information and 
data that one of the parties to the contract discloses to 
the other party, and which pertain to the purpose for 
the fulfillment  of which the relevant contractual 
relationship is being entered into, on any medium – 
whether on paper or electronically,. If data or 
information of a Confidential  nature is to be disclosed 
orally, the receiving party must be notified of such fact 
in the course of the oral disclosure and confidentiality 
must subsequently be confirmed by the disclosing 
party in writing within 3 days of disclosure.  
 
2. None of the parties to the contract shall have the 
right, without the previous written consent of the other 
party to the contract, to disclose any Confidential  
information to a third party, or to enable a third party to 
have access in any way to any Confidential  
information, even if only in part. The parties to the 
contract shall have the right to use the received 
documents, data and information relating to the 
Confidential  information only for the purpose specified 
within the contractual relationship. The supplier shall 
take such measures so that the Confidential  
information is not disclosed to any third party, including 
the use of protection against malware, use of legal 
software only and compliance with network security. A breach of the obligation of confidentiality shall not 
include the provision of information in the performance 
of an obligation arising under law or the provision of 
information to a court or arbitration court in the 
assertion of any claims or rights from t he given 
contractual relation ship and/or the provision of 
information, documents and data to persons who 
constitute a concern (holding) with the given party to 
the contract, as well as consultants and  other persons 
participating in the performance of the contractual 
relationship or ac tivities relating to the given 
contractual relationship who have, under law or 
contractually, an obligation of confidentiality , whereby 
none of the parties to the contract shall have the right 
to relieve such persons from the obligation of 
confidentiality  in any connection with such contractual 
relationship. The parties to the contract undertake to 
ensure that such persons are acquainted with the 
obligation of secrecy and that such persons are 
obligated to comply with it within the same scope as 
the partie s to the contract. The obligation of 
confidentiality shall not apply to:  
a) information that is publicly known at the time of the 
creation of the contractual relationship, or that 
becomes public subsequently in a manner other than 
by way of a breach of the obligation to maintain 
confidentiality by the party to the contract;  
b) information that the party to the contract must 
publish in accordance with a legal regulation or a 
decision of a body of public authority authorized to do 
so on the basis of a legal regulation;  
c) information that the party to the contract 
demonstrably already has available as of the date of 
the creation of the contractual relationship;  
d) information that is or will be disclosed to the party to 
the contract by a third party without claims for the 
limitation of their utilization or confidentiality.  
 
3. The obligation to maintain confidentiality shall 
endure even after the termination of the contractual 
relationship. In the event of a breach of obligations 
according to this article, the breaching party to the 
contract shall have an obligation to pay a contractual 
penalty in the amount of CZK 100,000 for each such 
breach. The claim of the damaged party for 
compensation of damage exceeding the contractual 
penalty shall n ot be affected by the agreement on  the 
contractual penalty.  
 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-8-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
4. The supplier agrees that the customer processes, 
gathers and keeps the supplier’s personal data 
mentioned in the contract and necessary for providing 
of services arising from the contract. These personal 
data shall be processed and kept by the customer in 
his internal register for the purposes of fulfillment  of its 
obligations from the concluded contract and for 
registration purposes.  
 
5. The supplier grants its consent under the previous 
paragraph for the period of duration of this contract and 
for the period of additional five (5) years.  
 
XI. Company Responsibility   
 
1. The supplier undertakes to comply with the legal 
regulations, among other things, pertaining to the fight 
against corruption, protection of economic competition, 
the fight against money laundering, as well as further 
legal regulations of criminal or adm inistrative law, as 
well as other principles and requirements contained in 
the “ Siemens Energy  Group Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers  and Third Party Intermediaries ”, which are 
set out in Annex No. 1 to these Terms and Conditions.  
 
2. The supplier primarily undertakes not to tolerate any 
form of corruption or bribery, or to be accessory to them 
in any way, including the fact of undertaking not to 
tolerate any illegal offers of payments or similar 
performance for public officials (persons acting in 
bodies of public authority or in other  entities controlled 
by bodies of public authority) whose purpose is for such 
persons to influence official actions or procure an 
unauthorized benefit in connection with the business of 
the party to the contract. Further, the supplier primarily 
undertakes not to tolerate child labour  and 
noncompliance with requirements regarding the 
protection of the environment.  
 
3. Upon request by the customer, the supplier shall 
have an obligation to provide the customer, once per 
year at most, according to its discretion either (a) 
written information on the customer’s form or (b) a 
written report, which the customer shall appro ve, 
describing measures that the seller has taken or is 
preparing to take in order to ensure the requirements 
contained in the “ Siemens Energy  Group Code of 
Conduct for Suppliers  and Third Party Intermediaries ”.  
 
4. The customer and/or a third party authorized by it 
that the supplier accepts shall have the right to verify 
the performance of the obligations contained in the 
“Siemens Energy  Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers  and Third Party Intermediaries ” by the supplier, 
including within the premises of the supplier. The 
inspection can only be conducted on the basis of a 
previous written notice from the customer in the course 
of the usual business hours and in accordance with the 
valid data protection re gulations. Such inspection 
cannot unreasonably restrict the business activities of 
the supplier, nor can it disrupt the supplier’s contractual 
obligations pertaining to the confidentiality of 
information in regard to third parties. The supplier 
undertakes to provide reasonable cooperation in the 
conducting of an inspection. Each party shall pay its 
own costs expended in connection with such an 
inspection.  
 
5. The supplier shall be obligated not to allow conduct 
of illegal work in the sense of special legal regulations, 
whether directly for the supplier or for its sub -supplier s. 
The supplier shall be obligated, upon request of the 
customer, to submit to the customer evidence proving 
that persons conducting work for the supplier or its 
subsupplier  are not conducting illegal work in the sense 
of special legal regulations.  
 
6. The supplier shall without delay report to the 
customer any security incident within the meaning of 
ISO 27001.  
 
XII. Principles Regarding Safety and Protection of 
Health at Work, Fire Protection and Environment 
for Suppliers  
 
1. The principles set out below have been drawn up in 
accordance with legal regulations and are intended for 
the instruction of persons conducting work at the 
customer’s workplaces. Their purpose is to ensure the 
safety and protection of health at work and the 
protection of the environment, primarily proper 
handling of waste and hazardous chemical 
substances, as well as informing of management 
systems established within the customer’s company.  
 
2. The supplier shall comply with all statutory 
provisions on health and safety and shall use its best  
efforts  to take measures  to:  
a) prevent  risks, eliminate risks or minimize the impact 
of irreversible risks  for the health and safety of the 
personnel employed by  the supplier and supplier´s 
direct or indirect subcontractors for the performance of 
the works (hereinafter only as the “personnel”) ; and  
b) ensure that no persons who are legally on the work 
site, including  personnel, customer´s  personnel and 
visitors, suffer any injury . 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-9-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
3. Prior to  commencement of the works, the supplier 
shall provide the customer with a written risk  
assessment that : 
a) analyzes all potential hazards for the health and 
safety of the personnel  arising out of the works; and 
b) determines measures to eliminate such hazards  and 
accept the risk assessment from the customer . 
 
4. The supplier shall ensure that all its personnel are 
professionally and medically  eligible  for the p rovision  of 
the work (and shall prove this capability upon  
customer’s request), take part in site -specific safety 
training and receive  the appropriate perso nal 
protection equipment before starting work on the site. 
The supplier shall ensure that the personnel make use 
of the personal protection equipment in the appropriate  
manner and that such equipment is maintained in good 
working order at all times . 
 
5. The customer reserves the right, at its sole 
discretion, to bar any personnel from the site and/or to  
suspend the execution of the works for security, health 
and safety reasons, at any time without  any liability 
whatsoever . 
 
6. The supplier shall appoint a competent person as its 
representative for environmental, health and  safety 
(hereinafter only as the “Supplier´s  EHS 
Representative”) and shall ensure that the Supplier´s 
EHS Representative takes part in safety discussions 
arranged by the customer f rom time to time . 
Furthermore, the supplier shall appoint a coordinating 
person according to Section 101 Paragraph 3, second 
sentence, of the Labour Code.  
 
7. The suppliers shall regularly monitor compliance 
with statutory and contractual health and safety  
provisions by performing safety tours on the site  and 
enable the customer to control the compliance 
mentioned above without prior notice (Spot Checks + 
ToolBox Talks), and shall use its best efforts to 
participate in these Checks . In due time before a safety 
tour, the supplier shall invite the customer to participate 
in the tour. If the supplier discovers non -compliance 
with health and safety provisions, it shall restore 
compliance without undue delay and advise  the 
customer of findings and of the status of  the corrective 
actions . 
 
8. Upon customer´s request, the supplier shall 
promptly grant the customer access to all documents  
related to health and safety connected with the works.  
9. In case of an incident leading to : 
a) the death or serious injury causing direct life -
threatening or permanent health consequences of any 
personnel , the supplier  shall inform the customer 
immediately ; 
b) other accidents of any personnel, the supplier shall 
inform the customer within one working day . 
 
Moreover, the supplier shall without undue delay:  
1) clarify the causes and circumstances of the 
accident ; 
2) determine appropriate measures to exclude  similar 
incidents in the future ; 
3) define time periods for the measures to be 
implemented ; and 
4) provide the customer with a written report containing 
sufficient detail on the cause, the  measures  
determined and the time periods defined. The supplier 
shall use its best efforts to provide full coopera tion in  
any additional  investigation conducted by the 
customer , includin g the provision of information, 
testimonies and documents to clarify the causes and 
circumstances of the accident . 
 
10. In the even the customer  produces a safety and 
health document for the site ( hereinafter only as the 
“EHS Plan”) the customer will provide the supplier  with 
a copy of the EHS Plan. The supplier  shall confirm 
receipt thereof  in writing and comply with the 
regulations contained therein. The same shall apply to 
updates of  the EHS Plan which the customer may 
produce as it deems necessary. The supplier shall 
ensure that  its direct and indirect subcontractors 
contracted to perform the works commit themselves to 
the EHS Plan and its upda tes. The supplier shall make 
its own EHS Plan and submit it to the customer prior to 
commencement of execution of the work for approval.  
 
11. In addition to any other rights , the customer  may 
have, in the event of the supplier ’s material or  repeated 
failure to comply with the statutory or contractual health 
and safety provisions,  including the provisions of this 
Article and the provisions of the EHS Plan  of the 
customer and EHS Plan of the supplier , the customer 
may terminate th e contract  without any liability 
whatsoever, after providing the supplier with a  
reasonable time period within which to remedy the 
failure . 
 
12. The supplier shall be responsible for its staff and is 
obliged to ensure that all of them shall have valid 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-10-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
residence and employment permission s on the territory 
of the Czech Republic.  
 
13. Should the supplier deliver legally permissible 
products, which are, however, subject to statutorily 
imposed substance restrictions and/ or information 
requirements (e. g. REACH, RoHS), he shall declare 
such substances in the web database BOMcheck 
(www .BOMcheck.net) or in a reasonable format 
provided by customer no later than the date of first 
delivery of products. The foregoing shall only apply 
with respect to laws which are applicable at the 
registered seat of supplier or customer or at the 
designated  place of delivery requested by the 
customer. Furthermore, the supplier shall also declare 
all substances which are set out in the applicable so -
called “ Customer  List of Declarable Substances” in the 
manner described above.  
 
14. If the use of hazardous chemical substances and 
mixtures is necessary for the fulfillment  of the agreed 
work, a list of them as well as their material safety data 
sheets must be provided and their utilization must be 
approved by the customer’s EMS specialist  and must 
demonstrate preparedness for a potential accident . 
 
15. Should the delivery contain goods which according 
to the international regulations are classified as 
dangerous goods, the supplier shall inform the 
customer hereof in a form agreed upon between the 
supplier and the customer, but in no case later than t he 
date of order confirmation.  
 
16. The hazardous chemical substances and chemical 
mixtures brought in or carried in by the supplier that 
were not used up on the same working day the supplier 
shall have an obligation to take such chemical 
substances and chemical mixtures away from the 
customer’s facility at the end of the working day, or to 
store them in a place designated for such storage until 
they are used up.  
 
17. Empty uncleaned packaging of hazardous 
chemical substances and chemical mixtures cannot be 
stored within the customer’s facilities, and the supplier 
shall have an obligation to take such packaging away 
on the day when it is emptied.  
 
18. If the supplier created a waste within the customer’s 
facility then he is the originator of such waste and shall 
have an obligation to arrange for its disposal at its own 
cost.  19. The Supplier shall provide all necessary data and 
information in accordance with the EU Carbon Border 
Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) statutory regulations 
in a timely manner upon request of Customer in order 
to meet the Customer´s external obligations. CBAM 
latest developments as well as guidance can be 
accessed on the official Carbon Border Adjustment 
Mechanism Website; currently available under the 
following  link:                  
https:taxation -customs.ec.europa.eu/carbon -border -
adjustment -mechanism_en  
 
20. The customer shall be entitled to conduct at the 
supplier´s site quality audit  and safety and protection of 
health at work audit . The provisions of Article XI. 
paragraph 4 shall apply accordingly.  
 
21. The supplier is obliged to pay the customer a 
contractual penalty in the amount of CZK 50 ,000 for 
each serious breach of the obligations under Article XII  
hereof  or in amount of CZK 25 ,000 for any other breach 
of the obligations under Article XII  hereof , as stated in 
Attachment No. 2 to these Terms and Conditions - 
Sanction Rules in the field of EHS . 
 
XIII. Provisions on Export Control  
 
1. The customer shall not be obligated to fulfill the 
agreement if such fulfillment  is prevented by any 
impediments arising out of national or international 
foreign trade or customs requirements or any 
embargoes or other sanctions.  
 
2. For all products to be delivered and services to be 
provided, the supplier shall comply with all applicable 
export control, customs and foreign trade regulations 
(hereinafter only as the “foreign trade regulations”) and 
shall obtain all necessary export licenses, unless the 
customer or any other party than the supplier is 
required to apply for such export licenses pursuant to 
the applicable foreign trade regulations.   
 
3. The supplier shall advise the customer in writing as 
early as possible but not later than the delivery date of 
any information and data required by the customer to 
comply with all foreign trade regulations for the 
products and services applicable in the  countries of 
export and import as well as re -export in case resale. 
In any case the supplier shall provide the customer for 
product or service:  
a) the “Export Control Classification Number“ 
according to the U.S. Commerce Control List (ECCN) 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-11-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
if the product is subject to the U.S. Export 
Administration Regulations;  
b) all applicable export list numbers;  
c) the statistical commodity code according to the 
current commodity classification for foreign trade 
statistics and the HS (Harmonized System) coding;        
d) the country of origin (non -preferential origin); and  
e) upon request of the customer: the supplier’s 
declaration for preferential origin (in case of European 
suppliers) or preferential certificates (in case of non-
European suppliers)  (hereinafter collectively only as 
“data”) ; 
f) evidence of the country of origin of the iron and steel 
inputs used for the processing of the Products . 
 
4. In case of any alterations to origin and/or 
characteristics of products or services and/or to the 
applicable foreign trade regulations, the supplier shall 
update the export control and foreign trade data as 
early as possible but not later than the deliv ery date. 
The supplier shall be liable for any expense and/or 
damage incurred by the customer due to the lack of or 
inaccuracy of said export control and foreign trade 
data.  
 
5. The Supplier shall provide the necessary 
organizational instructions and take measures, 
particularly with regard to the following security: 
premises security, packaging and transport, business 
partner, personnel and information - in order to 
guarantee the security in the supply chain according to 
the requirements of respective internationally 
recognized initiatives based on the WCO SAFE 
Framework of Standards (e.g. AEO, CTPAT). The 
Supplier shall protect the goods and services provided 
to the Customer or  provided to third parties designated 
by the Customer against unauthorized access and 
manipulation. The Supplier shall only deploy reliable 
personnel for those goods and services and shall 
obligate any sub suppliers to take equivalent security 
measures. In  addition to other rights and remedies the 
Customer may have, the Customer may terminate the 
contract and/or any purchase order issued thereunder 
in case of breach of these obligations by the Supplier. 
However, provided that Supplier´s breach of contract i s 
capable of remedy, Customer`s right to terminate is 
subject to the proviso that such breach has not been 
remedied by the Supplier within a reasonable grace 
period set by Customer . 
 
 
 
 XIV. Provisions on Cybersecurity  
 
1. The supplier shall take appropriate organizational 
and technical measures to ensure the confidentiality, 
authenticity, integrity and availability of the supplier 
Operations as well as products and services. These 
measures shall be consistent with good i ndustry 
practice and shall include an appropriate information 
security management system consistent with 
standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the 
extent applicable).  
 
2. “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes 
and systems (including information systems), data 
(including the customer data), personnel, and sites, 
used or processed by the supplier from time to time in 
the performance of this agreement.  
 
3. Should products or services contain software, 
firmware, or chipsets:  
a) the supplier shall implement appropriate standards, 
processes and methods to prevent, identify, evaluate 
and repair any vulnerabilities, malicious code, and 
security incidents in products and services which shall 
be consistent with good industry practic e and 
standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the 
extent applicable);  
b) the supplier shall continue to support and provide 
services to repair, update, upgrade and maintain 
products and services including the provision of 
patches to the customer remedying vulnerabilities for 
the reasonable lifetime of the products and servic es; 
c) the supplier shall provide to the customer a bill of 
materials identifying all third -party software 
components contained in the products. Third -party 
software shall be up -to-date at the time of delivery to 
the customer;  
d) the supplier shall grant to the customer the right, but 
the customer shall not be obliged, to test or have tested 
products for malicious code and vulnerabilities at any 
time, and shall adequately support the customer;  
d) the supplier shall provide the customer a contact for 
all information security related issues (available during 
business hours).  
 
4. The supplier shall promptly report to the customer all 
relevant information security incidents occurred or 
suspected and vulnerabilities discovered in any 
Supplier Operations, services and products, if and to 
the extent the customer is or is likely to b e materially 
affected.  
 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-12-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
5. the supplier shall take appropriate measures to 
achieve that its subcontractors and suppliers shall, 
within a reasonable time, be bound by obligations 
similar to the provisions of this section.  
 
6. Upon the customer’s request, the supplier shall 
provide written evidence of its compliance with this 
section including generally accepted audit reports 
(e.g., SSAE -16 SOC 2 Type II).  
 
XV. Final Provisions  
 
1. If any of the provisions of the contract or these Terms 
and Conditions is or becomes invalid, unenforceable, 
apparent or ineffective, such fact shall not affect the 
validity, enforceability or effectiveness of the other 
provisions of the contract or of these Terms and 
Conditions. In such case, the parties to the contract 
shall be obligated to make all efforts to enter into an 
amendment to the contract, by which the relevant 
invalid, unenforceable or ineffective provision will be 
replaced with a new one w hich will best correspond to 
the originally intended economic purpose. Right to 
claim the cancellation of the obligation according to 
Section 2000 of the Civil Code shall be excluded.  
 
2. Written form shall, within the meaning of these 
Terms and Conditions, be considered to mean a 
document made out either a) in printed form and sent 
to the other party to the contract to the address of the 
party to the contract set out in the contract 1) by way of 
registered mail or courier service or in any other way 
that enables the provision of a confirmation of delivery 
back to the sender, or 2) by fax to the fax number of 
the party to the contract set out in the contract with 
confirmation of delivery, or b) in electronic form and 
sent by electronic mail with gu aranteed electronic 
signature or electronic mark.  
 
3. A document shall be considered delivered on 3rd 
business day after having been sent in any of the ways 
set out in the previous paragraph to the relevant 
address of the party to the contract, even if the 
addressee has not taken receipt of the document.  
 
4. The contract and any disputes or claims arising on 
the basis of or in connection with the fulfilment of the 
contract (including out -of-court disputes or claims) 
shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance 
with the substantive law of the Czech Republ ic. The 
UN Convention on Contracts for the International Sale 
of Goods (CISG) shall not be applicable.   
 5. Section 558 (2), Section 1726, Section 1728, 
Section 1729, Section 1740 (3), Section 1744, 
Section 1757 (2) and (3), Section 1765, Sections 
1798 to 1800, Section 1950 and Section 2112 of the 
Civil Code shall not apply. The Contracting Parties 
expressively confirm that this contract shall be 
concluded by them as entrepreneurs within their 
business. Neither of  the Contracting Parties is in a 
weaker position towards the other party.  
 
6. All disputes arising from or in connection with 
the contract, including any issues concerning 
termination of or subsequent amendments to the 
contract, shall be finally decided by general courts 
of the Czech Republic. The parties agree that the 
court having  territorial jurisdiction shall be the 
general court of the customer.  
 
7. These Terms and Conditions constitute, together 
with document to which they are attached and annexes 
to such document, the entire agreement and 
supersede any previous agreements between the 
parties related to the subject hereof. The contracting 
parties agree that in addition to this contract no rights 
and obligations shall be derived from former or future 
practice  conducted between the contracting parties or 
business customs kept in similar branches or in branch 
related to the subject of this contract.  
 
8. The customer is entitled to assign the contract onto 
a third party.  Any legal person which is directly or 
indirectly controlled by Siemens Energy  
Aktiengesellschaft, is entitled to accede to the 
framework agreement of which these Terms and 
Conditions are a part, by a written declaration of 
accession delivered to the supplier. Rights and 
obligations laid down in the framework agreement shall 
apply a lso to the legal relations between the supplier 
and the acceding legal person related to the subject 
matter of the contract. The declaration of accession 
does not give rise to any joint and several liability of the 
acceding company and the customer or other parties 
to the framework agreement, or any guarantee, 
security for obligations or similar legal relationsh ip. 
 
9. The contract may only be modified and 
supplemented by way of written numbered 
amendments signed by all of the contracting parties. 
The contract or its changes is not deemed to be 
agreed, until the contracting parties agreed in full 
consent all provisions in written form (in case of order 
it must be done in form of confirmation of the order in 
full scope without any deviation ) in full extent.  
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-13-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
10. The customer is pursuant to Section 1752 (1) of 
the Civil Code entitled to amend these Terms and 
Conditions. Such amendment shall entry into 
effect 10 days after delivery of the notice of such 
change to the supplier pursuant to Article XV (1) 
hereof. The s upplier shall be entitled within 10 days 
from delivery of such notice reject the respective 
change and withdraw from the present Terms and 
Conditions upon a notice which shall not be longer 
than 30 days.  
 
Annexes:  
 
No. 1 – Siemens Energy  Group Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries  
 
No. 2 - Sanction Rules in the field of EHS  
 
No. 3 – Specific Terms for Work  
 
___________________________________________  
 
  
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-14-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Annex No. 3 – Specific Terms for Work  
 
I. General Provisions  
 
1. The works must be conducted at a quality specified 
by the contract and the quality of the work performed 
must be in accordance with the requirements set out in 
a quality plan and inspection plan, prepared for the 
relevant contract.  
 
2. The supplier shall be liable for ensuring that the 
execution , structure, usefulness and engineering of the 
performance of the works corresponds to the state of 
the art in science and technology, that only 
appropriate, new, unused and first -class materials will 
be used, and that the works will be appropriate for the  
purpose of utilization.  
 
3. Additional work or changes in the scope of the works 
as required by the customer must be mutually 
approved, recorded in the construction log and signed 
by the representatives of all of the parties to the 
contract. Such an entry shall be the basis for the 
drawing up of a change order including an adjustment 
of the price of the works (or an amendment to the works 
contract).  
 
4. The supplier shall have an obligation, upon request 
by the customer and on the basis of a change order, to 
perform the changes and additional work that are 
reasonable in view of the scope of the contract, as well 
as changes and additional work that are nec essary in 
view of changes in legal regulations and standards that 
were not effective as of the date of execution of the 
contract. The circumstances of the performance of 
such changes and additional work, including their 
effect on agreed deadlines for su pplies and prices, 
shall be mutually agreed upon in a change order or 
amendment to the contract.  
 
5. The supplier shall prepare a change order on the 
basis of an entry in the construction log and shall 
submit it to the customer for approval. Only i f the 
customer confirms a change order in writing, the 
change order shall be binding upon the parties to the 
contract and the supplier shall perform the required 
changes or additional work.  
 
6. The supplier shall have an obligation to notify the 
customer, in writing in the form of an entry in the 
construction log, of when the works will be prepared for 
handover, in any case at least 7 days prior to the 
proposed date of handover.   
7. The supplier shall prepare and provide to the 
customer, no later than 7 days prior to the proposed 
date of the handover of the works, a plan of 
comprehensive as well as individual tests evidencing 
that the qualities of the works being handed over 
correspon d to the usual qualities and the scope of 
functions according to the project.  
 
8. If the customer requests it, the supplier shall enable 
the customer to make dispositions with the works or a 
part thereof or to utilize the works or a part thereof prior 
to the handover. The parties to the contract shall set 
out the details in a written contract.  
 
9. A handover record shall be drawn up between the 
customer and the supplier in regard to the handover  
and takeover according to the customer’s form . 
 
10. In the takeover proceedings, the supplier shall have 
an obligation to submit the following documents:  
a) lists of machinery and equipment that are the object 
of supply, their certificates, declarations of conformity , 
testing protocols ; 
b) operating and maintenance manuals;  
c) documentation of the actual execution;  
d) records and certifications of conducted tests;  
e) records on the state of covered structures and work;  
f) construction log;  
g) inspection reports according to relevant ČSN;  
h) other agreed documents.  
 
II. Construction Site  
 
1. The customer shall hand the construction site, i.e. 
the premises defined in the construction project for the 
execution of the works and for the construction site 
equipment within the scope of the works, over to the 
supplier no later than on the date of the 
commencement of the performance of works.  
 
2. A record shall be drawn up between the parties to 
the contract in regard to the handover of the 
construction site, in which record the scope of the 
construction site being handed over and the specific  
obligations of the parties to the contract, including 
environmental protection, shall be specified.  
 
3. The supplier undertakes to handle wastes in 
accordance with Act No. 185/2001 Coll., the Waste 
Act, as amended. It primarily undertakes to prevent the 
creation of wastes, and it shall also have an obligation 
to ascertain whether the party to whom it is hand ing 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-15-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
over wastes is authorized to take receipt of them under 
such Act. In the event that such a person fails to 
provide evidence of such authorization, waste cannot 
be handed over to such a party. The sorting or mixing 
of waste for the purpose of fulfilling cri teria for its 
handing over to a disposal site and mixing of 
hazardous wastes with one another or with other 
wastes is forbidden.  
 
4. The supplier as the originator of wastes shall have 
an obligation to:  
a) sort wastes according to types and categories 
according to the relevant legal regulations;  
b) collect wastes sorted according to individual types 
and categories;  
c) secure wastes against undesirable devaluation, theft 
or leakage;  
d) keep continuous records on wastes and the 
manners of handling them.  
 
5. The supplier shall be liable for handling wastes until 
the time of their utilization or removal, if it is doing this 
by itself as an authorized person, or until the time of 
their transfer into the ownership of an authorized party 
for their takeover accordi ng to the Act on Wastes.  
 
6. The supplier shall have an obligation to vacate the 
construction site within 10 days of the handover and 
takeover of the works.  
 
7. A supplier who has taken over the relevant worksite 
for the performance of work shall be liable for work 
safety at worksites. Entry by and the performance of 
work of other participants of construction is only 
possible with consent and under the conditions as 
determined by the supplier.  
 
8. The supplier shall notify of the performance of 
welding work by way of an entry in the construction log 
and shall arrange for the issuance of a permit for 
welding. The supplier shall notify the customer (or the 
facility guard service outside of the custome r’s working 
hours) of the completion of welding work, whereby the 
manner of securing the subsequent fire prevention 
surveillance must be ensured . 
 
9. The performance of the obligations set out above by 
the customer shall not affect the supplier’s liability for 
proper safety measures arising from the nature of the 
work.  
 
III. Construction Log  
 1. The supplier shall keep a construction log at the 
construction site within the meaning of the provisions 
of Section 157 of Act No. 183/2006 Coll., the Building 
Act, as amended, and implementary regulations, in 
which it shall record primarily:  
a) all facts decisive for the performance of the contract, 
such as the presence of personnel at the site, a 
description of conducted performance, handover and 
takeover of materials and tools, accidents at the site 
and information on the course of the accident  and on 
witnesses, ascertainment of damage, special 
occurrences, such as the effects of force majeure, 
delayed issuance of materials and instruments, defects 
of necessary operating resources, missing work that 
was to have been conducted in advance, wait ing times, 
etc.; 
b) a list of documents and official measures pertaining 
to the works;  
c) a list of documentation for the works, changes and 
supplements of the project, an overview of tests of all 
types.  
 
2. The construction log shall be kept in such a way so 
that it is available in 3 counterparts (the original and 2 
separable copies). Blank spaces cannot be left out in 
making daily entries.  
 
3. The construction log must be permanently 
accessible at the site in the course of the working 
hours. The supplier shall have an obligation to provide 
the customer with a copy of the log entries at least 1 
time per week. It shall have an obligation to store the 
other copy separately from the original in such a way 
so that it is available in the event of the loss or 
destruction of the original.  
 
4. The obligation to keep the construction log shall end 
as of the handover and takeover of the works.  
 
5. The customer shall have the right to monitor the 
content of the construction log and to attach its opinion 
to the entries (consent, objections, solutions, etc.).  
 
6. Should the supplier not agree with an entry made by 
the customer, it shall have a right to attach its opinion 
to the entry within 3 days, the opinion submitted after 
such period of time shall not be taken into 
consideration. The customer shall also have th e same 
rights and obligations.  
 
7. By way of an entry in the construction log, the 
persons appointed by the customer and supplier shall 
only be authorized to agree upon changes in the 
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-16-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
performance of the work and in the utilization of 
materials that shall not constitute a significant deviation 
from the basic project data. Significant deviations from 
the basic project data shall be agreed upon by the 
parties to the contract in an amendmen t to the works 
contract.  
 
IV. Occupational Health and Safety  
 
1. The supplier  shall comply with all statutory 
provisions on health and safety and shall use its best  
efforts : 
a) to eliminate hazards for the health and safety of the 
personnel employed by  the s upplier  and supplier ’s 
direct or indirect sub contractors  for the performance of 
the works (hereinafter only as the “Personnel”) ; and 
b) to ensure that no persons who are legally on the 
work site, including  Personnel, the c ustomer ’ 
personnel and visitors, suffer any injury.  
 
2. Before the commencement of the works, the s upplier  
shall provide the c ustomer  with a written risk  
assessment that : 
a) analyzes all potential hazards for the health and 
safety of the Personnel  arising out of the works; and 
b) determines measures to eliminate such hazards.  
 
3. The s upplier  shall ensure that all Personnel take part 
in site -specific safety training and receive  the 
appropriate personal protection equipment before 
starting work on the site. The s upplier  shall ensure that 
the Personnel make use of the personal protection 
equipment in the appropriate  manner and that such 
equipment is maintained in good working order at all 
times.  
 
4. The c ustomer  reserves the right, at its sole 
discretion, to bar any Personnel from the site and/or to  
suspend the execution of the works for security, health 
and safety reasons, at any time without  any liability 
whatsoever.  
 
5. The s upplier  shall appoint a competent person as its 
representative for environmental, health and  safety 
(hereinafter only as the “Supplier  EHS 
Representative”) and shall ensure that the Supplier  
EHS Representative takes part in safety discussions 
arranged by the c ustomer  from time to time.  
 
6. The s upplier  shall regularly monitor compliance with 
statutory and contractual health and safety  provisions 
by performing safety tours on the site. In due time 
before a safety tour, the s upplier  shall invite the customer  to participate in the tour. If the supplier  
discovers non -compliance with  health and safety 
provisions, it shall restore compliance without undue 
delay and advise  the c ustomer  of findings and of the 
status of the corrective actions.  
7. Upon the c ustomer ’ request, the s upplier  shall 
promptly grant the c ustomer  access to all documents  
related to health and safety connected with the works.  
 
8. In case of an incident leading to : 
a) the death of any Personnel ; or 
b) a severe injury involving  more than one day of 
incapacity of any Personnel ; or 
c) more than three workers being brought  to hospital, 
the s upplier  shall immediately inform the customer  and 
shall, without undue delay : 
1) execute a root cause analysis of the incident ; 
2) determine appropriate measures to exclude  similar 
incidents in the future ;  
3) define time periods for the measures to be 
implemented ; and 
4) provide the c ustomer  with a written report containing 
sufficient detail on the root cause, the  measures 
determined and the time periods defined. The su pplier  
shall support any additional  investigation conducted by 
the c ustomer . 
 
9. In the event the c ustomer  produces a safety and 
health document for the site ( hereinafter only as the 
“EHS Plan”) , the c ustomer  will provide the s upplier  with 
a copy of the EHS Plan. The supplier  shall confirm 
receipt thereof  in writing and comply with the 
regulations contained therein. The same shall apply to 
updates of  the EHS Plan which the c ustomer  may 
produce as it deems necessary. The s upplier  shall 
ensure that  its direct and indirect subcontractors  
contracted to perform the works commit themselves to 
the EHS Plan and its updates.  
 
10. In addition to any other rights the c ustomer  may 
have, in the event of the s upplier ’s material or  repeated 
failure to comply with the statutory or contractual health 
and safety provisions,  including the provisions of this 
Article and the provisions of the EHS Plan, the 
customer  may terminate th e agreement without any 
liability whatsoever, after providing the s upplier  with a  
reasonable time period within which to remedy the 
failure.  
 
V. Authorized Persons  
 
1. The persons specified below shall be recorded in the 
construction log as authorized persons.  
 
 
Terms and Conditions for Orders  
 
of Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.  
 
– Date of Issue: 01st February  2024 – 
 
-17-  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
2. The supplier shall appoint a technician as the main 
site manager for the management of the works, who 
shall be authorized to represent the supplier in 
operational matters, keep the construction log, keep 
records of work and have them approved by the 
customer’s expert supervisors, and arrange for the 
approval of the state of any defects and unfinished 
work being eliminated and changes in deadlines for 
their elimination, and take measures for remedies and 
settlement of disagreements.  
3. For the conducting of inspections and contact with 
the supplier’s personnel, the customer shall appoint a 
person who will be authorized to:  
a) monitor whether work is being performed according 
to the project, the agreed terms, technical standards, 
and in accordance with the decisions of public 
authorities. Deficiencies ascertained in the course of 
the performance of work shall be notified by them in the 
construction log. Such fact shall not relieve the supplier 
of liability for the performance of the works;  
b) coordinate the supplier’s activity with the other 
suppliers operating at the construction site and 
operatively handle problems that arise in the course of 
the performance of the works between the supplier and 
the customer and other suppliers;  
c) represent the customer in negotiations, with the 
exception of contractual negotiations, with the supplier, 
designer, building authority and other authorities and 
organizations whose rights and interests are affected 
by construction;  
d) give the supplier’s employees or its sub contractors  
the instruction to interrupt work in the event that the 
safety of the construction that is under way, the life or 
health of personnel at the site is endangered, or if there 
is a danger of other serious economic or ecological 
damage. The person shall have an obligation to notify 
the supplier’s responsible person of such an 
intervention;  
e) verify, and take over by way of an entry in the 
construction log, work and supplies that are to be 
covered in the subsequent course of work, or will 
become inaccessible;  
f) examine the scope of work and supplies performed 
by the supplier;  
g) require an exchange of the supplier’s personnel and 
give them instructions;  
h) perform inspections of the elimination of defects and 
unfinished work ascertained in the course of the 
takeover of the works, within the deadlines set out in 
the record of the takeover of the works.  
 
VI. Covering Structures   
1. Covering structures or work that remains covered or 
becomes inaccessible as a result of further 
construction must be notified by the supplier by way of 
an entry in the construction log at least 5 days in 
advance. In the event of the non -fulfillment  of this 
notification obligation, the customer shall have the right 
to require the uncovering of the relevant structures at 
the supplier’s cost.  
 
2. In the event that the customer fails to arrive for 
the verification of covered work, structures or 
technological parts of the works, the supplier shall have 
the right to cover the relevant part of the works. In the 
event that, upon the subsequent request of the 
customer, the supplier shall have an obligation to 
uncover the covered part of the works, the customer 
shall bear the costs of uncovering. The customer shall 
not bear the costs of uncovering if it is ascertained that 
covered work, structures or te chnological parts of the 
works were performed defectively or in breach of the 
project documentation.  
 
VII. Warranty  
 
1. The warranty period pertaining to the performed 
construction work is agreed upon for duration of 72 
months and shall commence on the day after the 
takeover of the construction part of the works by the 
customer.  
 
2. The warranty period pertaining to performed 
installation work for technology is 48 months and shall 
commence on the day after the takeover of the 
technological part of the works by the customer.  
 
3. The warranty period pertaining to supplies of 
machinery and equipment of the technological part is 
36 months and shall commence on the day after the 
commissioning or after the takeover of the works by the 
customer . 