Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.   General Commercial Terms and Conditions  
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o., odštěpný závod  Industrial Turbomach inery   Revision  IX/2023   
 
Restricted  These General Conditions are an integral part of the 
Contract ( Frame  Contract, Contract for Work or Purchase 
Contract  or others ) made by and between Siemens  
Energy , s.r.o. , with its registered seat at Olomoucká  
3419/7, 618 00 Brno, Id. No.: 084 96 943 , registered in the 
Commercial Registry maintained by the Regional  Court in 
Brno , Section C, Insert 117159 , branch (works) Siemens  
Energy , s.r.o., odštěpný závod  Industrial 
Turbomachinery , , as the Customer or the Purchaser 
(hereinafter only ''S E IT”) and the Manufacturer / Vendor 
(hereinafter only ''Supplier''). Any d eviatio ns from these 
General Conditions are valid only if they have been 
expressly agreed in the Contract.  
 
Any commercial terms and conditions of another 
person may, in addition to the SE IT terms and 
conditions, be valid providing this consequence is the 
intentio n of the manifestation of will on the part of S E 
IT, explicitly sp ecified and in writing.  
 
An application of Sections §558 Para 2, §1726, §1740 
Para 3, §1744, § 1751 Para 2, §1757 Para 2 and 3, § 1950 
and § 2112 of the Civil Code is explicitly exclude d. The 
Supplier takes over the risk of change of 
circumstances in terms  of Sections §§ 1764 – 1766 of 
the Civil Code.  
 
SE IT is entitled to assign  the Contract as a whole or a 
part of it to another person of the Siemens  Energy  
Group without the Supplier’s consent.    
 
I. ENTRY INTO THE CONTRACT  
I.1. The proposal to enter into  the C ontract, which is 
submitted by S E IT, will be confirmed by the Supplier 
within the time specified in the proposal. If the time 
has not been specified, then it will be within 1 month 
after th e proposal delivery.  
 
I.2. Any alterations made by the Suppl ier to t he 
proposal submitted by S E IT do not give rise to the 
Contract. In such a case it is a question of a new 
proposal for the Contract submitted by the Supplier 
and the Contract will come into effect only on the date 
of delivery of S E IT's notice of c onsent, i. e. by 
agreement of parties about the entire content of the 
Contract. If S E IT does not use its standard format of 
the purchase order, S E IT has to  provide a contract 
draft in written form. After  the parties reach an 
agreement about the entire co ntent, the Contra ct will 
be printed and signed by both contracting parties.  
 
I.3. The Supplier has to  submit the Extract from the 
Commercial Register before the signing of the Contract. If 
the name of the person signing the Contract on behalf of 
the Suppli er is not listed in the Extract from the 
Commercial Register or their authorization is not clearly 
obvious from their job classification,  this person has to 
submit a valid Power of Attorney to S E IT. If the Supplier 
is a natural person s/ he has to submit  the Trade Licence.  
 
I.4. If SE IT and the Supplier conclude a frame contract  
(purch ase contract, contract for works, agreement on  
using standard attachments) , they agree to form particular 
contracts  as follows : a) particular purchase  orders and their acce ptance 
(confirmation) by the other party shall be in electronic form 
with scanned signatures of the empowered persons or for 
SE IT  also with the Siemens  Energy  corporate electronic 
signature,  and the S upplier is entitled to return to SE IT  
signed  last page  of the purchase order  only, if the Parties 
agree  with such practice.  Both parties acc ept this way of 
forming contract as a duly signed contract in writing. Upon 
a par ty’s re quest they are obliged to provide o riginals of 
the contract.  
b) purchase ord ers in  electronic form without SE IT ´s 
signature.  If SE IT  and Supplier  uses for their bu siness  
(orders and their confirm ations ) Supply On  system , all 
above agreed provision  on contracting applies . 
 
I.5. In the case of the use of the INCOTERMS terms,  it is 
alway s agreed that this is the INCOTERM S 2020 version . 
 
II. FORM OF THE CON TRACT  
The Contract must always be made in writing, unless 
agreed otherwise  by the Parties in a concrete c ase. 
 
III. PRICE  
The price i s stated by agreement, is firm and forms the 
basis fo r calculation of VAT. Unless otherwise agreed, the 
price is assumed to  include packing, transport to the place 
of destination and insurance.  
 
IV. TERMS OF PAYMENT  
 IV.1. It is agreed  that the invoice (ta x document) is due 
as follows : 
(a) 60 day s from the d ate of its receiving,  or 
(b)  45 days from the date of its receivin g with a discount 
in the amount of 1  % from the invoiced price , or. 
(c) 30 days from the date of its receivin g with a discount in 
the amount of 1.5  % from the invoiced price.  
The Supplier m ay choos e between the variants (a) - (c). If 
the Supplier chooses  the variant other than a), i. e. the due 
date is shorter than 60 days with a d iscount of the invoiced 
price, t he Supp lier is , afte r prior agreement  with SE IT , 
obliged to stat e this fact in the invoice (tax document), and 
give the concrete amount of the di scount.  
 
IV.2. The price shall be paid to the Supplier’s bank 
account the number of which the Supplier is obliged to 
notify SE IT in writing in advance, as well as any change  
thereof, provid ed that for dom estic suppliers this is an 
account that has been made available by the ta x authority 
in remote matter a nd is admini stered by the provider of 
payment services inland. If no such bank account exists, 
the price shall be paid to the bank account  specified in the 
Contract or in the acceptance (confirmation) of  the order. 
Should the Supplier is declared as of the  date of the  
perfor mance of taxable supply as an unreliable tax payer 
according to VAT legislation or should SE IT  be in good  
faith that t he Supplier is in a position that would otherwise 
establish the SE IT ’s liability for unpaid VAT, SE IT  shall 
be entitled to  a) pay the Supplie r the price of a supply 
without the sum equal to the relevant amount of VAT, and 
b) pay the VAT for the supply di rectly to the account of the 
relevant tax authority.  
 
IV.3. The Suppli er who is a VAT payer and is executing a 
taxable fulf ilment for SE IT  has to issue an invoice (tax 
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.   Gener al Commercial Terms and Condit ions 
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o., odštěpný závod  Industrial Turbomachinery    Revision IX/2023 
 
Restricted  document) for each fulfilment for SE IT  by 15 days from  
the executed fulfilment a t the latest. The taxable fulfilment 
shall be confirmed by a record confirming t he fulfilment 
and takeover signed  by representatives of the contr acting 
parties. If the contracting parties agreed on a payment 
beforehand in the form  of advance payment, the S upplier 
who is a VAT payer shall issue a tax document for SE IT  
within 15 days sin ce receiving the payment . 
 
The contracting parties ha ve agreed th at the invoice (tax 
document) shall include at least the following data:  
- Invoi ce (Tax Document) Number  
- Particulars of  the contracting parties (as per Extract for 
the Commercial or Trade R egister), their official addresses 
and places of busi ness, IN and  TIN of  the contracting 
parties, data about the entry in the Commercial (Trade) 
Register  
- Number of the Order and the name of SE IT  employee 
who made the order  
- Number of the Contract (or the  name of the site, work or 
other details of the job)  
- Number of the goo ds using a code pursuant to the 
Standard Product Classification and the subject of taxable 
fulfilment i n accordance with the Contract  
- Scope of fulfilment  
- Date of execution of the taxable fulfilment or receipt of 
payment  
- Date of is suing the in voice ( tax document)  
- Unit price without tax  
- Tax basis  
- Basic or reduced  tax rate and VAT  
- Total price  
- Banking details of the contracting parties  
- Maturity date  
- Country of Origin  
 
IV.4. It is agreed SE IT ´s right  to impose a contrac tual 
penalty  in the  amount of EUR  40.- on the Supplier for 
every incomplete invoice (ta x document).  
IV.5. SE IT  is authorized  to return an invoice (tax 
document) without payment before the maturity period if  
it does not contain any of the above  mentioned  data or if 
the data is  not correct. Depending on the type of error the 
Supplier has t o correct it or to issue a new invoice (t ax 
document). By  returning the invoice (tax document) the 
original period of matur ity is terminated . The whole period 
will start agai n with the d elivery  date of the corrected or 
new invoice (tax document).  
IV.6. If the Supplier is a foreign entity and the s ubject of 
delivery (fulfilment)  is soft ware, licences or advisory, 
technical  and other ser vices the Su pplier has to present 
their Company Tax Domicile Certificate to S IT. If the 
regulations valid in the Czech Repu blic impose on SE IT  
in connection with ful filment of the Contract a duty to pay 
the Supplier's income tax to the local authority in th e 
Supplier's  countr y, SE IT  will perform this duty.  
IV.7. SE IT is auth orized to require the provision of a bank 
guarantee or other equivalent security by the Suppl ier in 
the case that SE IT  provides a monetary  payment to the 
Supplier without fulfilment of the  delivery by the S upplier. 
If the Supplier does not provide the security on time and 
properly, then the Supplier is author ised (unless otherwise agreed) to requ ire payment for the delivery t only after it s 
fulfilment.  
 
IV.8. SE IT  has the right to set off u nilaterally  any 
contractual penalty to which it is entitled pursuant to  
these General Conditions or to  the Contract against  
the unpaid invoice.  
 
IV.9. A debt p aid via bank is considered as fulfilled by the  
date of releasing the respective amount from SE IT ’s 
bank accoun t. 
 
IV.10.  The Supplier is not entitled to  assign its claims or 
rights to a third party without SE IT ´s consent.  
 
V. FULFILMENT OF CONTRACTUAL O BLIGATIONS  
V.1. Unless otherwise agreed the Supplie r has to fulfill its 
contractual obligations on the  site of S E IT. The d elivery 
will be fulfilled b y the signing of the Protocol of 
Conveyance and Take -over by bot h the contract ing 
parties  or by physical taking over of the goods, which SIT  
confi rms on a delivery note  and/or on the Protocol . A part 
of the delivery is a lso the docu ments c oncerning the 
goods which a re necessary for its take -over and use, 
Requirements Form for Export Data and  docu ments 
proving  the origi n of the goods for purposes of the 
customs, re -export,  etc.  
The delivery shall always be identified by a  
delivery/pa cking n ote, or the Take -over proto col.  
V.2. Packing list must contain following data:   
- Address of the Suppl ier  
- Address of t he SE IT  
- Name of SE IT’s employee that made the order  
- Order num ber and posit ion  
- SE IT  goods number (material numb er of the li st of p arts 
+ KKS c ode)  
- Designation of an item pursuant to the contract  
- Quantity  (total number of pieces ) 
- Unit  
- Batch numbe r 
- Consignment stock  (KS), if applicable   
- Weight (kg) net   
- Commodity code  
- AL / ECCN (export control check  to be performed  in   
  accord ance  with Official Journal of the European Union  
   L134/1 ) 
- Country of o rigin 
- Numb er of package unit s in the delivery of goods 
(pallets, cardboard boxes, cases). Each   pack age unit 
shall be ma rked with a consecutive number, the total 
quantity of pack age units and order numb er, and a listing 
of component designations and num ber of piece s shall be 
attache d.   
 
V.3. The Supplier is also obliged to put all data as above 
in the KANLOG form (if req uired). In addition, the   
following data need to be filled in the electronic system  
KANLOG:  
- Value of goods   
- Currency.  
The Suppli er shall fil l the delivery/packi ng note a nd the 
KANLOG form and hand it over to the goods income 
employee s at SE IT  or at a n external warehouse of SE IT , 
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.   Gener al Commercial Terms and Condit ions 
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o., odštěpný závod  Industrial Turbomachinery    Revision IX/2023 
 
Restricted  or to the responsible e mployees of SE IT ´s purchasing 
department by the moment of delivery of the goods a t the 
latest  otherw ise the co ntract is  not fulfilled.  
 
V.4. The Supplier is obliged to identify each de livery by 
label and/ or adhesive  tag with following data:  
- SE IT  goods number/material number of th e list of 
parts +  
  KKS code  
- Description   
- Quanti ty  
- Unit  
- Batch number  
- Weight (k g) net  
- filled in KANLOG form if required  
 
V.5. It is agreed SE IT ´s right to impos e a contractual 
penalty in the amount of EU R 100. - on the Supplier for 
every incom plete delivery/packing note or KANLOG 
form and/o r for materi al deli very with miss ing label  or 
self-adhesive tag.  
V.6. For the deliveries on non -standard -size pal lets or fo r 
loads of excessive size, the Supplier sha ll attach the 
handling instructions in Czech or English to the delivery 
note.  
 
V.7. During  the fulfillment  the Supplier has to (if it is 
expedient) maintain an erection or assembly book and to 
record in it the fol low-up of the works according to the 
agreed  schedule and to allow SE IT  to check the se 
records. SE IT  is authorised to record instruction s and 
requir ements concerning  Contract  fulfilment in this book 
and the Supplier has to  confirm their fulfi lment c ontinually . 
These records, however, do not create a modification to 
a concrete contract but may serve as the basis for 
concluding its amendment .  
 
V.8. In the case goods id entified by the implementation 
regulations to Law No 22/ 1997 Coll. of Laws in wordin g of 
its amendments are the subject of the delivery, the 
Supplier has to  hand over to SE IT  a copy of Declaration 
of Conformity, or a written As surance on I ssuing of 
Declar ation of Conformity, not later that to the agreed 
date of fulfilment.  
 
V.9. In additi on, the S upplier has to  allow SE IT , after prior 
agreement,  to inspect the progress of comple tion of the 
delivery in its production plant, or in the product ion plants 
of its sub -supplie rs, for the purpose of verification of the 
real progress of work w ith the  SE IT  technical 
specification s or with the agreed schedule of fulfilment. 
The Supplier und ertakes to provide the SE IT   
 
representative, free of charge, with the neces sary 
technical means and cooperation to perform this 
inspection, and the Supplier shall  enable  entry to the 
respectiv e facilities.    
 
V.10. SE IT  has the right to ask in writing at any  time to 
suspend the performance of the Contract. I n this  case, the 
Supplier has to discontinu e immediately all works after 
receiving such a notice until it rece ives fr om SE IT  a 
writing call to continue performance of the Contract.  If not agreed otherwis e, the Supplier has no right to ask 
from SE IT  for t he fir st 90 days fro m the dat e of 
discontinuing of the perform ance of  the Contract neither 
payment of storage char ges nor  other costs incurred to it 
for this reason. The deadlines of performance of the 
Cont ract shall be extended for a period of time  adequa te 
to the period of duration of the suspension.  
 
VI. SUPPLIER' S DELAY  
If the fulfilment of the Contract by the Sup plier is delayed, 
it is agreed SE IT ´s right  to enforce  a contractual penalty 
in the amount of  2% of the agreed price for the Contract 
subject f or each week of de lay start ed. SE IT ' right to 
indemnity and los t profi ts is not affected  by this provision . 
If the Supplier is not able to fulfil his commitment in time 
he will notify SE IT  without delay and a t the same time he 
will define the additional fulf ilment period.  SE IT  is not 
committed to such a period and has t he righ t to withdraw 
from the Contract without  any e ffect o n SE IT  right to 
indemnity and lost profits.  
 
VII. WARRANTY PERIOD  
VII.1. Unless otherw ise agreed in the Contract, the 
Supplier's war ranty period f or the Co ntract subject 
shall be 24 months from commissioning or 36 months 
from delivery, whi chever is later.  
 
SE IT shall b e entitled to require the Supplier to 
provide a bank guarantee for the quality of the delivery  
(warranty  bond) , which  shall be vali d for the  entire 
agreed warranty period.  
 
The w arranty  for th e project documentation is 
provided by the Supplier as long as  any correction of 
incorrect documentation is sensible (t echnically or 
economically). SE IT 's right to for compensation  for 
the detri ment caus ed by incorrect  technic al 
documentation is not thereby  affected.  
 
VII.2. In case a defect occurs during the warranty 
period the Supplier i s committed to act to rectify it 
without delay after being informed by SE IT . The 
Supplier wil l remove de fects in a t echnically adequate 
time. If the time requ ired by  the Su pplier to rectify the 
defect is long (longer than 15 days from the date of the  
expect ed removal), SE IT  has the right to procure a 
substitute or rectification of the defect by t hemsel ves 
or by a third  person at the Su pplier's expense. The 
claim  is ass umed to  be on -time when sent to SE IT  
within 1 month of the delivery  or within 1 month of 
finding the defect.  
 
VII.3. SE IT ´s costs  as well as Supplier´s costs  connected 
with the  complaint  proced ure includ ing shipp ing costs shall 
be borne by the Supplier.  
 
VII.4. In case of incorre ct performa nce, it is agreed SE 
IT´s the right to enforce a contractual penalty for 
defective fulfilment of the delivery i n the amount of 
15% of the agreed price for the  Contract subje ct. SE 
IT's right to compensation of the incurred detrimen t 
and lost profits  is not affected  by this provision . 
 
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.   Gener al Commercial Terms and Condit ions 
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o., odštěpný závod  Industrial Turbomachinery    Revision IX/2023 
 
Restricted  VIII. LEGAL INCORRECTIONS  
The Supplier guarantees that no third person's rights are 
violated by the fulfilment of t he delivery a nd by use of 
mater ials an d procedures used during this fulfilment.  
 
IX. TRANSPO RT AND  PACKIN G 
IX.1 The Supplier has to  send the delivery in a package 
assuring sufficient protection fr om damage during the 
transport and  storage in an adequate pl ace. Transpor t 
conditio ns will be su bmitted  by SE IT  to the Supplier 15 
days before the agreed date  of fulfilmen t of the Contract.  
 
IX.2 Material transported by the Supplier for its own use to 
the place s pecified by SE IT  as the place of f ulfilment of 
obligations has to be conf irmed by SE IT ; also the 
materia ls, tools and building machines used by the 
Supplier f or fulfilling its obligations on the SE IT  premises 
have to  be listed in a checklist and confirmed by  SE IT . 
These confirmed documents are an integ ral part of t he 
invoice  (tax document). The Supplier  has to  ask the SE IT  
Security Department for entrance approval  for its vehic les. 
 
X. OWNERSHIP RIGHT AND TRANSFER OF 
LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE  
Ownership right to the delivery is transferred to SE IT  
on the da te of signing  the Recor d of its Conveyance 
and Take -over ; or by  physical taking over of the 
goods, which SE IT  confirms  on a d elivery  note. At the 
same time the liability for damage is transferred to SE 
IT. 
 
XI. FORCE MA JEURE  
XI.1. As circumstances of fo rce majeure are  to be 
understood such circumstances (for examp le lega l strike, 
catastrophe, changes in laws , regulations/decisions of 
public authoriti es etc.) occurring  after the Con tract has 
come into force which could not be foresee n or remedied 
by the con tracting parties and wh ich prevent them fro m 
carrying out the Contract temporarily or totally.  
In case of  force majeure the party whose fulfilment of the 
Contract is prevent ed will  inform the other party without 
delay and will submi t documents or informati on about 
subs tantial in fluence of force maj eure on the fulfilment of 
the Contract. In case of the influen ce of f orce majeure 
lasting longer than 90 days, both parties  are ob liged t o 
negotiate Contract changes.  
 
XI.2. SE IT  shall be entitled to withdraw f rom the Contr act 
at any  time in the event , that the force majeure incidents 
last longer than 180 days.  
 
XII. W ITHDRAW AL FROM THE CONTRACT  
XII.1. If the Supplier infringes his contractu al obligations or 
obligations arising from thes e General Commercial Term s 
and Conditio ns SE IT  has the right to withdraw f rom the 
Contract with immediate effect. Its rights to contractual 
penalt ies, compensa tion fo r the experienced detriment, or 
the lost profits are not the reby af fected  
XII.2. SE IT  has the right to withdraw  from the Contrac t, if 
the Supplier is d eclared to be an unreliable tax payer 
according to VAT legislation  or insolvent .  
 XII.3. SE IT  also has the right to withdraw from the 
Contract on the basis o f its ow n decis ion witho ut giving the 
reason providing it pays the Supplier  the p rice of the 
works/services carri ed out and accepted so far  and the 
price of t he goods already delivered, and th e work in 
progress, on the effective day of the withdrawal fro m the 
Contract. T he Supplier is obliged to hand over such go ods 
to SE IT . 
 
XIII. CO NDITIONS OF FULFILMENT  
The Supplier has checked all the conditions, legal 
requi rements, schedules, plans and draw ings and gained 
(on his own account) all the information and d etails 
neces sary for the Contract subject fulfilment (for example 
erection site conditions and accessibility, storage and 
lifting equipment,  accommodation  and o ther 
prescriptions). SE IT  is not re sponsible for costs or losses 
caused by the Supplier not havin g check ed this 
information.  
The Supplier declares that i t has  all nec essary 
authorizations available to implement the subject matter of 
the performance.  
 
XIV. SECRECY AGREEMENT  
XIV.1. The Suppl ier agrees hereby to keep in strict 
confidence all business an d techn ical information, 
including specifications, plans , dra wings, c alculation, 
samples  etc., received from SE IT  or obtained in the 
course of fulfillment of t he Contract, not to use these 
materials for its own financial or other benefit nor for the 
bene fit of a third person, not to make them available to 
third persons witho ut a previous written agreement from 
SE IT , and not to use this information and materials f or 
purposes other than fulfillmen t of th e Contract, 
irrespective of whether these materials ar e marke d as 
confidential, or not. The Supplier shall als o kee p all 
docum ents an d instruments received in any form protect 
from being stolen or misused by a third  person.  
 
XIV.2. The obligation of secrecy applies also to Supplier’s 
employees or third parti es havi ng received the 
information mentioned above from the S upplier, wi th SE 
IT´s approval, and under the conditions of this provision. 
The Supplier is responsibl e for these persons being under 
contractual obligation of secrecy in the same scope as he 
himse lf. 
 
XIV.3. Every and each document , regardless of whe ther 
marked as se cret by SE IT  or not, shall be property of SE 
IT, and all c opies shall be , based on prior re quest,  
returned to SE IT  or destroyed  after the expiration of the 
contract.  
 
XIV.4. The Supplier shall  keep s ecret and undisc losed to 
a third party  information or d ata ma rked as c onfidential by 
SE IT  except for using this infor mation for purposes 
defined by th e Contract; this applies also for their being 
provided by a third party.  
 
XIV.5. The Supplier shall  have a  right disclose 
information marked a s confidential in  a nec essary scop e 
without having a prior approval from SE IT  required for 
the purposes of fulfill ment of the Contract by:  
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.   Gener al Commercial Terms and Condit ions 
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o., odštěpný závod  Industrial Turbomachinery    Revision IX/2023 
 
Restricted  a) state bodies, authorities and institutio ns, including 
financial or other  author ities engaged in  public assessing 
of the work, prov ided t hese are enti tled to require this 
information;  
b)  a consul tant or other parties involved in  the Contract, 
and it is ensured by the Supplier that these parties are 
advised about obligations of  secrec y mentioned in t his 
provision, and  were undertaken to the ir performanc e. 
 
XIV.6. The obligation to protect confident ial information 
shall last after the expiration of the contractual 
obligations, at least until inform ation becomes publicly 
available . Shoul d any of the par ties commit a brea ch 
of this obliga tion, it is  bound t o provide 
compensation for the detriment infli cted by the other 
party, and to p ay a contractual penalty in the amount 
of CZK 1 million for each bre ach of the obligation of 
protect ion of confidential inf ormation . 
 
XIV.7.  The right of the  parties to  legal p rotection of a trade 
secret and confidential i nformation in terms of the Civil 
Code, including related sections and other legal 
regulations, is  thereby not affected.  
 
XIV.8. The info rmation below is  excluded from the 
obligation to both p arties  to keep it in confidence:  
a) information already know n by the public without 
involveme nt of the accepting party  
b) information already been owned by the recei ving 
party before its accept ance by  the other party  
c) information legall y obtained by the  recei ving party 
from a third party.  
 
XIV.9. After the busines s case is finished, each party ca n 
ask the counterparty to return all materials provided for 
the fulfill ment of the contractual oblig ations and 
containing c onfidential informati on or business se crets;  
the counterp arty shall return these materials including  
their copies, if any, without an y delay.  
 
XIV.10. This provision does not and cannot in any way 
affect  or curtail the intellectual propert y rights of any of the 
contracting pa rties, in particu lar th e rights to i nventions, 
registered designs, trademarks, licenses, know -how, etc.  
 
XV. SEC URITY  
If the Supplier fulfils the contractual obligations  within SE 
IT' area or within the area speci fied by  SE IT , the Suppli er 
is obliged to b ehave in accordan ce wit h the leg al 
presc riptions concerning work security, fire p rotection and 
according to the re levant norms. SE IT  will inform the 
Supplier about the inter nal security prescriptions valid 
within th e place  of the Contract  subject fulfilme nt and the 
Suppli er wil l assure fu lfilment  of these prescriptions by its 
employees.  The Supplier's employees are obl iged to keep 
within the prescribed area. The Supplier is o bliged to mark 
this area (by the name of t he comp any and name of the 
person respon sible for this ar ea). T he Supplier  will assure 
visible marking of its employees (by  the name of the 
company). After the fulfillment of the contractual 
obligations,  the Suppli er's employees are obliged to return 
SE IT  area entry ID - cards . In case of viola tion of these 
obligatio ns by any o f the Supp lier's employees, SE IT  has the right to  withdraw from the Contract. His right to 
indemnity the experienced detriment and lo st profits of SE 
IT are not affected by this.  
 
XVI. ENVIR ONMENTAL PROTECT ION 
XVI.1. If the Supplier fulf ils th e obligations w ithin SE IT  
area or within the area specified by SE IT  the Supplier is 
obliged to beh ave in accordance with the legal 
prescriptions concerning environmental issues.  
 
XVI.2.  The Supplier  will p repare procedure s for the 
liquidation of wa ste ar ising from his acti vities dur ing the 
Contract fulfilment. The Suppl ier will liquidate the waste at 
his own expense, maintain adequate re cords and when 
handing over the delivery the Supplier will submi t the 
documents of liqu idation. T he Supplier is ob liged to keep 
legal presc riptions c oncerning the handling of substances, 
which are dangerous for water.  
During the fulfilment of contra ctual o bligations  the 
specified place will be kept clean. The Supplier is 
responsible for poss ible envir onmental damage c aused 
during the Contract  subject f ulfilment. In case the Supplier 
damage s lawns or trees he is obliged to  perform the 
necessary steps for the ir recovery. The Supplier has to  
consult on environmental matter s with the environmenta l 
departme nt of SE IT  and t o foll ow its instructions.  
 
XVI.3. Should Supplier deliver legally permissi ble 
products, which are, however,  subject to statutorily -
imposed  substance restrictions and/ or information 
requirements (e.g. REACH,  RoHS),  Supplier shall declare 
such substances i n the web database BOMcheck  
(www.BOMcheck.net ) or in a rea sonable format provided 
by SE IT  no later than the date of first delive ry of p roducts. 
The for egoing  shall only apply  with respect to laws which 
are applica ble at the registered seat of the Supp lier, at the 
seat of SE IT  or at th e designated place of  delivery 
requested by SE IT . Furthermore, Supplier shall also 
declare all substa nces wh ich are set out in the so -called 
"Siemens  Energy  list of declarable Subs tances " applicable 
at the time of delivery i n the manner described above . 
 
XVII. STORAGE AND HANDLING AREAS  
XVII.1 If the Supplier fulfils the contractual obligations 
within SE IT  area o r within an ar ea specif ied by SE IT, he 
is obliged to stay only in the premis es o r mani pulation 
areas specified for him by SE IT . Equipment or 
components which are used for fulfilment of the delivery  or 
will become its part , are to be properly stored and secu red 
by the Su pplier wit hin the  areas  specified by SE IT , 
secured properly from  alienatio n and kept in a proper and 
clean stat e.  
 
XVII.2 After fulfi lling the delivery (the contractual 
obligations) the Supplier is obliged to put these areas into 
the original (or agree d) state, and to ha nd them over to SE 
IT in the form of a written report in th e agreed t erm.  
SE IT shall be entitled to suspend payment of 10% of the 
price and pay it to the Supplier only after the 
premises /areas  have been  duly handed over on the basis 
of a protocol signed by both parties . 
 
XVIII. SUBDELIVERIES  
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o.   Gener al Commercial Terms and Condit ions 
Siemens  Energy , s.r.o., odštěpný závod  Industrial Turbomachinery    Revision IX/2023 
 
Restricted  Upon  request,  the Supplier is obliged to submit a list of his 
sub-suppliers for approval before the Contract signing.  In 
case any need to change or add to this list occurs after the 
Contract signing this change or add ition is on ly valid after 
SE IT ' previous wri tten appr oval.  
 
XIX. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SIEMENS ENERGY 
SUPPLIER S 
XIX.1.  The Supplier undertakes to comply with all 
applicable  laws, including regulations pertaining to 
protection of economic competition , and  pertaining to fight 
against corruption, and the fi ght ag ainst money 
laundering,  as well as ot her principles and requirements 
contained in the “Code of Conduct for Siem ens Ener gy 
Suppliers and  Third  Party  Intermedi aries .” The Supplier 
primarily undertakes not  to tol erate child labor and 
noncompliance with require ments regarding the 
protection of the environment.  The Supplier shall be 
obligated not to allow conduct of illegal wo rk in the sense 
of special legal regula tions . The Supplier shall be 
obligated, upon request  of SE IT , to s ubmit evidence 
thereof . The Supplie r shall oblige  its sub -suppliers in  the 
same sense.   
XIX.2.  Upon request by SE IT , the Supplier shall have 
an oblig ation to provide SE IT , once per year a t most,  
written inf ormation describing measur es that  the Supplier 
has t aken or is preparing to ta ke in ord er to ensure the 
requirements contained in the “Code of Conduct for 
Siemens  Energy  Suppliers and  Third Party 
Intermedi aries ”. SE IT  is entitled, upon prior written notice 
and at  its own costs,  to conclude  chec ks of Supplier´s 
comp liance with the obligations  descri bed in Code of 
Conduct for Siemens  Energy  Suppliers and Third Party 
Intermediaries “ and is entitled to do so even in the 
Supplier´s premise s. Such checks must not intervene into 
Supplier´ s business activities  and Suppli er´s oblig ations. 
The Supplier shall reason ably cooperate d uring such 
checks.  
XIX.3.  The Supplier shall without delay report to SE IT  
any security incide nt within the meaning of ISO 27001.  
XIX.4. In ad dition to other rights  and remedies SE IT  may 
have, SE IT  may terminat e the Contract in case of breach 
of these obligations by the Supplier. However, provided 
that Supplier´s breach of Contract is capable of remedy, 
SE IT ´s right to terminate is s ubject to the p roviso that such  
breach has not been remedied by the Sup plier with in a 
reasonable grace period set by SE IT . 
SE IT  is entitled to t erminate the Contract with immediate 
effect,  if it is found illegal emp loyment by the Supplier 
and/or if the S upplier refuses to provide SE I T with 
evidence on le gality of employment.  
 
 
XX. RESERVAT ION CLAUSE  
SE IT  shall not be obligated to fulfill the Co ntract if such 
fulfillment is prevented by any impediments arising out of  
national or international foreign trad e or customs  
requiremen ts or a ny embargoes or other  sanctions.  
 
XXI. S ECURITY I N TH E SUPP LY CHAIN  The Supplier shall provide the necessary organ izational 
instructions and take measures, p articularly with regard to 
the following security: premises security,  packaging a nd 
transpor t, busi ness partner, personn el and information - in 
order to guara ntee the security in the supply chain 
according to the requirements of respective internationally 
recognized initiatives based o n the WCO SAFE 
Framework of Standards t o Secure and  Facilitate  Global  
Trade (SAFE Framewor k) (e.g. Authorized  Economic  
Operator,  AEO, Customs -Trade Partnership Against 
Terrorism, C -TPAT). The Supplier shall protect the goods 
and services provided to SE IT  or provided to third parties 
designated  by SE IT  agains t unauthori zed access and 
manipulat ion. The Supp lier shall only dep loy reliab le 
personnel for those goods and services and shall obl igate 
any subsuppliers to take equivalent s ecurity measures.  
In addit ion to other rights and remedies SE IT  may have , 
SE IT  may terminate the Contract and/or a ny orde r issued 
thereunder in case o f breach o f these obligations by the 
Supplier. However, provided that the Supplier’s breach of 
contract is capab le of remedy, SE IT’s right to terminate is 
subject to th e proviso that s uch breach  has not be en 
remedied by  the Supplier within a reasonable grac e period 
set by SE IT . 
 
XXII. PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA  
XXII.1. If, in connection with performance of a contract , 
either party  disclose personal data, the disclosing  party 
shall be re sponsible for providi ng the data in accordance 
with the respective legal regulation s or with consent of the 
subject of the data. By taking  over the data, the receiving 
party becomes a p rocessor and s hall be obligated and 
entitled only to use the personal d ata for th e purpose 
specified by the contract and ensure protection of th e 
personal  data from unauthorized access, disclosure  or 
misuse. T he re ceiving party may only disclose the 
person al data to a t hird party in cases provided for by law  
or with a prior c onsent of the disclos ing party.  
 
XXII.2. The Supplier agrees that, by vi rtue of legal 
regulations , SE IT  shall process, collect and preserv e the 
personal data of the Supplier set forth in  contracts,  as well 
as other personal data necessa ry for the performanc e of 
obligations aris ing fro m the contracts  and for evidence 
purposes .  
 
XXIII. GO VERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION  
XXIII.1. The legal relati onship  of the contracting parties 
shall be gover ned by the law of the Czech Republic, 
exclusive an  application of the V ienna Con vention on t he 
Law of Treaties and Conflict Rules and the Un ited Na tions 
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of 
Goods. If a contract or these terms and condition s do not 
contain specific provisions, the rights a nd obligations of 
the contract ing parties are gov erned by Act No 89/2012 
Coll., Civil Code , as am ended.  
 
XXIII.2. Any disputes will be decided by the court of  
compe tent jurisdiction and territorial responsi bility.  