Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 2023 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Safety rules for external companies /
business partners working in the
Duisburg plant
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Wolfgang-Reuter-Platz 4
47053 Duisburg, Germany
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 20231
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.1. Introduction
Welcome!
The safety regulations you have to observe at our location are presented in this safety instruction.
→ If you do not comply with the regulations, you can be immediately expelled from the site.
Please also consider that adherence to the safety regulations does not release your company from the
responsibility for you or for compliance with the required safety measures for performing the activities.
Help proactively to prevent accidents - as well as to interact sustainably with our environment - also in your own
interest!
Significant changes to the
previous year are marked with a
bookmark.
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 20232
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.2. Basics
ID card, working hours
You will receive a company ID card when entering the company site,
The ID card must be worn in a clearly visible manner!
The ID card must be returned at the latest after expiration of the period of validity.
Loss of the ID card must be reported immediately to your Siemens Energy
coordinator for external companies and the security center (Gate 1) or at Gate
“Kre” for work at Heavyligt Terminal Duisburg (HTD).
The access for pedestrians or vehicles on Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays only is permitted with a
written permission from your Siemens Energy coordinator deposited at the security center (Gate 1). This also
applies to working hours outside of 5:40 a.m. to 10:20 p.m.
The permission must be requested from your Siemens Energy Coordinator no later than the Thursday before the
weekend.
The statutory regulations regarding working hours must always be complied with!
Persons requiring special protection (e.g. young people and trainees) must be supervised and must not be
assigned to risky work or perform work in hazardous areas.

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 20233
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.2. Basics
Environmental Protection & Energy Management
Every contractor employee is required to contribute to the careful handling of the environment and use of energy
in his or her area of responsibility:
Rules for environmental protection:
 Avoidance of waste and mixing of waste.
 After completion of the work the waste has to be taken away and disposed of at one's own responsibility
 No discharge of substances into the sewage system (secure rainwater drains if necessary)
 Avoidance of exhaust, dust and noise emissions.
Energy management:
 Switch off unneeded machines, devices or other consumers when no longer required or disconnect them
from the power supply. This applies especially when leaving the construction site or work area.
 If possible, use energy-saving machinery, devices or other consumers.
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 20234
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.2. Basics
Bans
No smoking - at the entire site including outdoor areas.
Exception: Smoking areas - 4 smoking areas are on
the main site (see picture).
Prohibition of consumption, work and influence of
alcohol, cannabis and other drugs.
Photography and filming on the site is permitted only
with prior approval!

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 20235
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.2. Basics
Inspections, Tools and Materials
Persons, belongings and particularly vehicles, are subject to entering and leaving inspections .
If you bring tools, equipment or materials on site:
These must be registered with the site security
Provide a detailed list of the items/equipment you bring with you (form available at site security).
The use of Siemens-Energy work equipment is only permitted with written permission and only in exceptional
cases (especially crane systems, industrial trucks, tools, etc.).
All work equipment that you bring with you
 Must be in proper condition ,
 Shall only be used for its normal intended purpose ,
 Must be tested according to legal requirements (e.g. electrical equipment according to DGUV V3, personal
protective equipment to prevent falling, ladders, etc.)
Use of bolt setting tools / driving tools / nail guns :
 Only devices with sequential actuation trigger are permitted!
 Work only when standing safely!
 No persons shall remain in the hazard area!
Use of hammers / impact tools:
 Consider hand protection! Provide suitable protective measures to avoid injuries caused by using a hammer or
similar tool (e.g. using a finger saver / wear impact protection gloves / do not hold parts with your hand!
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 20236
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.2. Basic
Controls, tools and materials
On-site inspections
Siemens Energy carries out on-site inspections to check compliance with the conditions for the use of
partner companies and the lawful use of partner company employees, irrespective of the form of
assignment. The checks are carried out by plant management, the occupational safety department,
supplier control and plant security within the scope of their respective responsibilities. For this purpose,
the Contractor shall grant Siemens Energy employees access to all facilities on the plant premises at all
times, provide information and allow inspection of documents to the extent required for the inspection.
Controls to prevent theft
In order to protect company and personal property, plant security staff are authorized to carry out
checks.
Consequences of violations
Siemens Energy will punish violations of the safety rules, relevant statutory, collective bargaining or
other regulations by the Contractor or its subcontractors and take appropriate measures.Depending on
the type and severity, possible violations may include, for example: - a warning, - a ban on entering the
works for persons and/or - exclusion of the Contractor from further assignments. Siemens Energy also
reserves the right to call in the authorities if necessary and to claim damages.

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 20237
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.2. Basics
Work Areas and Construction Areas I
Construction site areas must be clearly separated from other operational areas and marked as such. The
following applies:
Blocking off construction and storage areas with temporary fence panels or equivalent substitute measures.
Barriers must be maintained throughout the construction period.
Deactivation of safety equipment :
Free access to safety equipment must be ensured all times, never block it!
If operational safety devices have to be deactivated (e.g. deactivation of fire detectors and extinguishing
systems), or if signs have to be removed, this is only permitted after prior consultation with your Siemens
Energy Coordinator!
After completion of the work, these must be put back into operation!
In the event of damage to or malfunctions of our equipment :
If you notice any damage to or malfunctions within our facilities, please immediately report them to the plant
security or your Siemens Energy coordinator.
Restriction of traffic routes / escape routes :
If a temporary closure of an escape route / a traffic route is necessary, coordinate with your Siemens Energy
coordinator.
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 20238
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.2. Basics
Work areas and construction site areas II
Storage of construction materials, materials , installation of temporary structures, construction trailers as
well as containers, etc.: Only with prior approval of your Siemens Energy Coordinator.
Always keep work areas and break rooms clean and tidy.
Access to plant areas in which no work is to be performed within the scope of the contract is prohibited.
Access to monitored areas and control areas that are marked accordingly is permitted possible with the
prior consent of your Siemens Energy Coordinator (e.g. radiation protection / electromagnetic fields ).
Access prohibited for people with pacemakers / implants in signed areas.
Theuse of fresh water, electricity and gas is only permitted with the prior approval of your Siemens Energy
Coordinator.
Before starting earthworks and in case of unforeseen complications during the execution , the
consultation with your Siemens-Energy coordinator is necessary (clarification of supply lines and disposal
lines or similar facilities / conditions at the location).
Use of portable heaters is only permitted with the prior consent of your Siemens Energy coordinator.

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 20239
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.2. Basics
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
Your company is required to provide you with the necessary Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
For your personal protection, you must always wear the PPE
 that has been specified in the risk assessment for the activities you are to perform,
 being specified by a mandatory sign in the work area.
Mandatory signs must always be obeyed.
If the protective equipment is not available, it is not allowed to enter the designated area.
In general, the following PPE must be used depending on the type of work:
Safety shoes in general - generally recommended S3 with ankle protection.
Protective goggles for work with risk of eye injury (e.g. sawing, drilling, welding, etc.)
Safety helmet for work with risk of head injury, for work on two levels and for crane operation. In designated
production buildings / areas according to signage
 PPE to prevent falling from a height (PSAgA) on the crane runways, on telescopic and articulated working
platforms as well as during work with a risk of falling if no protection by side guards or scaffolding in place.
Respiratory protection andhearing protection if required.
Protective gloves with cut protection / impact protection , especially when handling hammers / crushing
tools / sharp objects
foot protection safety helmet ear protection eye protection hand protection

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202310
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.2. Basics
Siemens-Energy-Coordinator
Before starting work, contact your Siemens-Energy contractor coordinator.
Tasks of the Siemens-Energy coordinator:
Responsible for coordinating the work
Authorized to issue instructions in all matters of occupational safety and
environmental protection
 Will give instruction regarding the building-specific regulations
Providing information about the special hazards in the respective area
and carrying out the mutual risk assessment
For any questions, your Siemens Energy Coordinator is your first point
of contact!

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202311
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Working with Scaffolding
Scaffolds shall only be assembled by appropriately qualified scaffold erection companies!
Completed scaffolds must be inspected and then marked with the inspection report / scaffold release
certificate.
Scaffolds without test report / release certificate must not be used!
Damaged scaffolding components must not be used or modified!
Scaffolds/areas not ready for use must be marked with prohibition signs "Access prohibited" and access to
the hazard zone must be blocked.
Before use, scaffolds must be visually inspected by each user . Any damage must be reported to the
responsible supervisor or the Siemens Energy Coordinator.
Modifications to scaffolds shall only be done by the scaffold erector. This also applies to changing or
removing scaffold decks.
If defects are found during the inspection, the scaffold must be locked immediately and all employees
working there must leave the scaffold (remove scaffold release certificate)!
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202312
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Working at Hights
Before starting work with a falling height of more than 2m , a written permission ( permit) (work permit -
work at height at the Duisburg location) is required. Please contact your Siemens Energy coordinator!
If there is a risk of falling, this must be avoided by:
Necessarily acting devices (e.g. guardrails, stationary working platforms or other technical fall
protection devices)
Fall arrest systems (e.g. catch scaffolds/ roof catch scaffolds/ safety nets/ protective walls)
 Use of suitable PPE against falling from height
PPE against falling from height :
PPE against falling from height must be visually inspected before each use and inspected once a year by
a competent person. Use protective devices only if you have been instructed in its handling and are
familiar with its use!
Entering crane runways / working on crane systems:
 Enter only after consultation with the Siemens Energy Coordinator
 Relevant crane controls, if necessary also from neighboring cranes, have to be confiscated and
secured against unintentional and unauthorized operation.
 Working alone er only after consultation with the Siemens Energy is prohibited.

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202313
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Working with aerial work platforms
Only use persons for the operation of aerial work platforms who:
 are at least 18 years old andreliable
have been instructed in the operation,
 have a written order by the employer.
Adriver's license or certificate of competence for the use of working platforms must be available and carried.
Equipment must be in perfect condition andinspected by an expert.
The annual expert inspection must be visible on the equipment, e.g. by a label.
Devices must be checked by the user every working day withfunctional tests (condition and effectiveness of
the safety devices). This must be documented.
When leaving the device / vehicle, the ignition/main key must always be removed.
Telescopic platforms must be provided with anchor points for PPE against falls from a height.
Suitable fall arrest systems must be worn (e.g. height safety device with max. length 1.8m) and attached to
the defined anchor point.

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202314
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Working with aerial work platforms II
The following regulations must be observed - for your safety and the safety of others - when using aerial work
platforms:
A second person with knowledge of emergency lowering functions must always be in the work
area as a safety post. The safety guard and operator of the working platform must wear
a safety helmet.
 During the work, the work area must be blocked / marked .No other persons are allowed to remain in the
work area.
 Climbing from the work cage onto another surface is strictly prohibited ! Inexceptional cases , it may only be
possible to climb over with prior consultation with the Siemens Energy Coordinator and  agreement and
an appropriate risk assessment!
T h e maximum load of the working platform must be observed!
Attention! If there are overhead cranes in the working area, they shall not be operated at the same
time as the working platform. Contact the Siemens Energy coordinator for coordination!

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202315
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Working in confined spaces
Special requirements apply to work in confined spaces, e.g. tanks.
Essential points to be observed when working in confined spaces:
Before starting work in confined spaces:
 Carry out risk assessment .
 Designate a responsible supervisor .
 Designate a reliable safety post who is in contact with the employees
(line of sight, voice communication, signal line) and who can summon
help at any time without leaving his post.
 Obtain a permit with specified protective measures from the Siemens
Energy Coordinator.
Do not start work until the protective measures specified in writing
have been taken and the employees have been instructed.

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202316
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Lifting operations
 If you require crane systems, these may only be used by persons who have been trained, instructed
and authorized in writing. In the case of external companies, the relevant contractor must issue the
authorization.
T h e used slinging equipment must be suitable, tested and without visible damage.
 Crane chains must have safety devices to prevent unhooking.
Pay attention to persons in the area of the crane
 Never leave lifted loads unattended.
Do not walk or stand under lifted loads!
Never climb onto or into suspended loads.

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202317
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Working with electrical work equipment I
Be especially careful when working with electricity! Even the slightest mistake can be
fatal!
Basically, the condition of the electrical equipment to be used must be suitable for the
respective task and the respective ambient conditions!
Depending on the expected mechanical, physical or chemical effects , equipment of the
corresponding application category (K1 / K2) must be used.
In general:
Electrical work equipment must be in perfect condition (cables, insulation, mechanical protective
devices) and have a valid test status according to DGUV V3.
 VISUAL INSPECTION BEFORE EACH USE!
Connection of electrical work equipment only with the agreement of your Siemens Energy
coordinator.  Always use a personal protective circuit breaker (PRCD-S) / construction power
distributor!
 Maintain test certificates for those devices requiring monitoring (e.g. pressure vessels for
compressors).
Defective devices must not be used and must be blocked / removed immediately!
protective insulation
(protection class 2)
Heavy duty
Dust-proofed
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202318
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Working with electrical work equipment II
Before each use, always check the following:
 Undamaged condition of the device and the supply line.
 The cable is not trapped e.g. in doors.
 Correct connection of plug.
 Need and possibility of covering / protecting cables e.g. under fixed covers.
Work on electrical devices, equipment or systems: may only be carried out by appointed electricians or
by persons with the appropriate qualifications after consultation with a person responsible for the system.
Working on live systems is generally prohibited - If you have any questions, please contact your Siemens
Energy coordinator!
For electrical work, the 5 safety rules apply in the correct order:
1. Tagout and lockout
2. Secure against restarting (e.g. padlock)
3. Determine absence of voltage (use approved voltage testers)
4. Ground and short-circuit
5. Cover or isolate adjacent live parts.
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202319
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Use of electrical equipment in case of increased
electrical hazard
The following applies in conductive areas with limited freedom of movement (e.g. vessels, boilers,
clamping fields):
 Portable electrical equipment may only be operated with protective extra-low voltage (42V) or with
protective separation.
 Only welding sources bearing the "S" mark or the old "42V" or "K" mark may be used.
 Hand lamps may only be operated with safety extra-low voltage.
 Only one device may be connected to isolating transformers.
In other conductive areas , protective measures such as protective extra-low voltage, protective separation,
residual current circuit breakers (RCD) or personal protective switches (PRCD-S) with a rated residual current
of max. 30 mA are permissible.
Work in potentially explosive atmospheres requires the approval of the responsible
Siemens Energy coordinator. Be particularly careful when using electrical equipment in
potentially explosive atmospheres. Discuss the measures to be taken with your Siemens
Energy coordinator.
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202320
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Activities on plants with energy application
For activities on systems with energy loading (compressed air, hydraulics, electrics, gas, etc.), prior
coordination with your Siemens Energy Coordinator is required.
 Before carrying out any activities, the shutdown routine (LOTO: Lockout-Tagout)
must be observed!
 Secure the disconnection point against unintentional operation or reconnection
by means of locking devices (personal padlock).
 Each disconnection point must also be marked with a warning tag (e.g.
indicating the location of the work, the date and the person authorized to
remove the safety device).
 Before removing fuse interlocks and restarting the work equipment, it must be
checked whether this can be done safely.
 Residual energies (e.g. potential energy) must be safely dissipated or made
safe by protective measures. Work under the lifted parts only if lowering is
prevented by lowering protection.Only carry out work when the machines and systems are shut down. Disconnect the system!

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202321
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Ladders and steps
Use step ladders for your work. Rung ladders only allowed in reasonable particular cases. Do not climb from
step ladders onto platforms etc.! Leaning over to the side is also prohibited, as lateral forces always mean a risk
of tipping over!
Only short-term and light activities may be carried out with ladders/steps . Otherwise, a working
scaffold must be erected.
 In principle, all ladders must have a documented inspection (e.g. inspection label).
 Always carry out a visual inspection before using a ladder.
 Instead of ladders and steps, never use unsuitable means of access , such as chairs, tables, boxes, etc.,
or even combinations thereof.
 If the ladder is placed in a traffic route , the location of the ladder must be secured with e.g.
signs, warning cones, barriers or safety posts.
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202322
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.3. Work Process
Floor openings, ceiling and stage load capacity,
gratings, railings
In buildings, the permissible loads of the individual floors and light grids/coverings must be observed.
The removal of floor covers, gratings and railings requires the approval of the Siemens Energy Coordinator and
may only take place after suitable substitute safety measures against falling have been taken.
Gratings and railings shall be properly reinstalled immediately upon completion of the work.
Missing railings on traffic routes/stairways or other areas shall be adequately secured with safety measures.
Warning tape is not a fall protection device!

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202323
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
3. Work Process
Hazardous Substances
Hazardous and flammable substances shall only be used with the prior consent of the
coordinator.
Safety data sheets and operating instructions for all substances used must be kept
available.
Hazardous substances may only be used by you after you have been instructed on
the basis of the relevant operating instructions.
Containers with hazardous ingredients must always be marked with the appropriate labeling and
hazard symbol!
Under no circumstances shall food packaging be used for filling with chemicals, cleaning agents,
etc.
Thequantity of hazardous substances in the work area must be limited to the daily
requirement. Storage is generally not permitted on site.
Waste must be disposed of on your own responsibility, if necessary, this must be coordinated with
the Siemens Energy Coordinator.
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202324
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.4. Fire Protection
Fire-hazardous work (welding, abrasive cutting work, etc.) may only be carried out after approval by means of a
fire permit. Please also contact your Siemens Energy Coordinator!
Remove all combustible parts from the hazardous area. Observe safety measures to prevent a fire from starting in
accordance with the fire permit, e.g.
 Cover combustible parts that cannot be removed.
 Seal openings.
 Provide fire extinguishers.
Smoke detectors must generally not be deactivated. If this is absolutely necessary, it must be agreed with the
Siemens Energy Coordinator.
Smoke detectors can also be activated by dust / water vapor!
If necessary, organize deactivation by consulting with the Siemens Energy Coordinator.
If it is necessary to break through walls, agree in advance how to proceed with regard to fire protection.
Inform yourself about :
Location of the nearest manual fire alert / fire extinguisher:

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202325
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.5. Traffic Rules
Internal Traffic
The road traffic regulations apply on the entire company premises incl. parking lot!
 The maximum speed is 10 km/h!
 Reversing only with a unobstructed view or safety guard or reversing video system.
 Behave carefully, considerately and avoid obstructing traffic.
 Parking in front of emergency exits, rescue routes, hydrants, entrances, gates or similar
bottlenecks is prohibited! This also applies to the placing or storage of materials! The
plant security or your Siemens Energy coordinator will provide information on parking
possibilities.
 Damage / accidents / abnormalities must be reported immediately to the plant security.
Watch out for "blue spots" from forklifts!

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202326
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.5. Traffic Rules
Industrial Trucks / Fork Lifts
 Vehicles shall only be operated by persons who have been trained for this purpose, are fit for the job, have
been instructed and have been authorized in writing .
 Vehicles shall only be operated if the driver has sufficient visibility or has been instructed by a spotter.
 Always use safety retention systems (e.g. seat belt).
 Switch on lighting. Adjust speed to max. 10km/h.
 When leaving the vehicle, secure it against rolling away and remove the key.
 Passengers shall only be carried on the equipment in places approved for this purpose.
 Loads must be secured. Lifting equipment must be inspected by a competent person every 12 months.
 Observe the load capacity diagram when loading.
Do not walk or stand under a lifted load.

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202327
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.5. Traffic Rules
Pedestrians
 As a general rule, use the existing sidewalks whenever possible. If the
roadway must be used, walk on the edge of the roadway.
 Furthermore, roadways have to be crossed fast by the shortest route
at right angles to the direction of travel, observing the vehicle traffic.
 Gates are not allowed to be crossed by pedestrians. Use the existing
side doors! Symbol:
 When walking on stairs, always use the handrail or keep it within
reach.
 Reading or sending messages from a cell phone while walking on
stairs is prohibited.
 Phone calls are only permitted in a safe location.
 Do not ignore barriers - danger to life! Walk around cordoned-off areas
on accessible main paths!

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202328
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.6. Emergency Call
Plant security
Safety Central (24h)
Tel. 0203 605 3131Medical
Emergency
Tel. 0203 605 110Fire
Tel. 0203 605 112
The following options are available for an emergency call at the company:
 Cell phone to 0203 605 110 / 0203 605 112 / 0203 605 3131
 Marked emergency telephones (see escape and rescue plans)
 Existing “landline telephones” / desk telephones (internal 110 / internal 112)
 In case of fire: manual call points at most emergency exits (see escape and rescue plans)
Please do not call the emergency services (fire brigade/emergency doctor/police) directly so as not to hinder
the internal rescue chain. If it is not possible to call external forces directly due to circumstances, the plant
security must be informed immediately on the nearest telephone. Heavylift Terminal Duisburg (HTD): Please
note deviating regulations on site.
Tips / Emergency number can also be found on your
Siemens Energy card / Save QR codes
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202329
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.6. Emergency Preparedness
Company medical service
In the event of accidents and injuries , the following services are available at
the Duisburg site:
Company medical service : Building 14 ground floor
(usually Monday to Friday until 4 p.m.)
Company paramedics from Plant Security at Gate 1 (after closing time of
the medical service)
First aid facilities in accordance with local fire escape and rescue plan
AED (Automatic External Defibrillator)
Every accident, even a commuting accident and minor injuries, must be documented in
the first-aid book, at the medical service or site security, and the Siemens Energy
Coordinator will be informed!
Electrical accidents: Due to the risk of cardiac arrhythmia immediate medical attention is
necessary, even after a suspected "wiper"!

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202330
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
6. Emergency Preparedness
Automated External Defibrillators (AED)

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202331
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.6. Emergency Preparedness: In Case of a Fire

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202332
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
6. Emergency Preparedness
Assembly points and important names
of places

Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202333
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.7. Summary
The main rules:
 Wear your personal protective equipment.
 Only use suitable work equipment which is suitable for your work.
 Always coordinate your activities in relation with the mutual risk assessment together with your
Siemens Energy coordinator.
 If doubts arise during the work or if you are unsure about the execution, stop your activity and
consult your Siemens Energy coordinator.
Only carry out work in which you have been instructed / trained for and for which you are
authorized.
Frei verwendbar © Siemens Energy, 202334
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Specific on-site briefing
This is followed by your specific on-site briefing with your Siemens Energy coordinator.
We wish you a pleasant and safe stay.
