   
 
           _____________  
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat:  H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability Company , registered at Company Registry Court of Budapest Capital Regional Court,  registration nr.: 01-09-345695 . 
1 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase of Goods and Ser vices of Siemens 
Energy Kft.   
 
- effective from 1st June 2021 - 
 
 
1. Scope  of the General Terms and Conditions of Purchase  
 
(1) These General Terms and Conditions of Purchase (hereinafter “G eneral Terms ”) shall apply to all 
contractual relationship related to purchase or delivery of goods and services between Siemens 
Energy Kft. ( Seat: H-1158 Budapest, Késmárk utca 24 -28., Reg. Nr. 01-09-345695) as Buyer  
(hereinafter referred t o as „Buyer”) and the Supplier.  
(2) In case of individual purchase, supply of goods or services the present G eneral Terms  shall become 
part of the individual contract  for the supply of services. Any other terms that are different from the 
present General Terms shall be set out in  the individual contract.  
 
2. Conclusion of the contract  
 
(1) The contract is concluded between the Supplier and the Buyer if (a) the Buyer's or der is confirmed 
by the Supplier within 1 (one) week after its receipt or, if indicated, it is confirmed within the time 
limit specified in the order with the same terms in a way that this confirmation reaches  the Buyer  
within this time limit (b) or, in th e absence of confirmation, the Supplier delivers in accordance with 
the relevant order. If the parties conclude a detailed  written contract to govern  their legal 
relationship, the date of conclusion of the contract is the date of sign ature . 
 
(2) The Supplier 's General Terms and Conditions shall not apply to the Buyer. Acceptance, receipt of 
supply  or services or the payment shall not be considered as  acceptance of the Supplier's General 
Terms and C onditions .  
 
3. Delivery period, penalty  
 
(1) The delivery  shall be deemed to be within the time limit  if the delivered goods or service w ere 
received by the Buyer  on the date or within the period specified in the contract at the place of 
performance specified by the Buyer and  in accordance with the relev ant contract.  
(2) When foreseeable delays in delivery occur, the Supplier shall notify the Buyer immediately by 
specifying the expected duration of the delay, even if the delivery period has not yet expired .  
(3) In case of delayed delivery,  the Supplier shall be obliged to pay a penalty. Unless otherwise agreed, 
the penalty rate is 0.5%, however not more than 5% for each commenced day.  The penalty is 
based on the total gross value of the order. In the event of a delay of more than 10 days, B uyer is 
entitled to withdraw from the contract. The Supplier shall compensate the Buyer for all damages 
caused by the breach of contract.  
 
4. Passing of risk, transport  
 
(1) The risk and title pass  upon acceptance by the Buyer of the goods and services that are in 
accordance with the contract at the place of performance specified by the Buyer. In the case of 
deliver ies involving installation , the title passes  from the Supplier to the Buyer  upon acce ptance  at 
the place of performance specified by the Buyer, the risk  upon receipt after installation.  
(2) Unless otherwise agreed , shipping and packaging costs shall be borne by the Supplier to the place 
of destination and the parties shall apply DDP Incoterms ® 2020. Additional costs incurred due to 
non-compliance with the mode of delivery shall be borne by the Supplier. In the case of delivery to 
the place of performance specified by the Buyer, the Buyer er is entitled t o set the method of 
transport . The Supplier shall bear the additional costs arising from the non -compliance  with the 
Buyer's instructions regarding delivery. Additional cost arising from the need to meet the delivery 
date by way of expedited shipment shall  be borne by the Supplier.  
   
 
           _____________  
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat:  H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability Company , registered at Company Registry Court of Budapest Capital Regional Court,  registration nr.: 01-09-345695 . 
2 
(3) Each supply shall be accompanied by a packing list indicating the contents of the supply or a 
delivery note and those shall also indicate the contract number and the purchase order number. 
The consignment  must be notified with t he same data (dispatch not e).  
(4) If the transport is performed by a carrier commissioned by the Buyer, the Supplier shall inform the 
carrier of the necessary data on dangerous goods in accordance with legal regulations.  
(5) If the Buyer  informed the Supplier th at a different mode of transport has been scheduled after the 
first delivery, the Supplier shall also comply with the applicable legal regulations for dangerous 
goods with regard to such ongoing transport.  
(6) Payment shall not be considered as an acceptance t hat the relevant supply or services were 
delivered in accordance with the contract.  
(7) By concluding the contract and / or fulfilling the order, the Supplier expressly accepts that the 
retention of title of the contractual goods is excluded, the breach of whi ch constitutes a serious 
breach of contract.  
(8) In the case of goods subject to copyright or equal protection the Supplier shall grant the Buyer 
exploitation and property right that is unlimited in time and place, absolut , modifiable, reproducible, 
can be copied and is unrestrictedly transferable to third parties . 
 
5. Invoicing  
 
The original invoice and the document confirming the receipt by the Buyer (delivery /handover -
report, certificate of completion  etc.) shall be sent directly to the Buyer's current account department. 
In the i nvoices the order number, the contract number and the number of each position  shall be 
indicated . In the absence of these, the invoice cannot be paid, and in the absence of the order 
numb er (PO number), the invoice is deemed to be incorrect and  shall be returned  by the Buyer . 
 
6. Payment  
 
(1) Unless otherwise agreed, payment shall be made on the following terms: The deadline for payment 
of the gross total amount of the invoice shall be 60 calendar days.  
(2)  The period within which invoices must be paid commences when the delivery or service h as been 
performed in full, without defects , complete  and in accordance with the contract and upon receipt 
of the properly issued invoice by the Buyer. If the Supplier is obliged to provide other documentation 
(ie. performance protocol, protocol on material  and measurment tests, certificate of quality or any 
other documentation) at the same time of delivery , deliveries and services will be regarded as fully 
performed only upon receipt of such documentation. The certificate of completion shall be always 
attac hed to the invoice, otherwise the Buyer will not make any payment . If the Supplier charges 
additional costs or performs  defectively , the payment deadline shall be set according to the date of 
elimination of the mentioned deficiencies  (i.e. date of performa nce in accordance with the contract) 
or the clarification date of price differences.   
 
7. Guarantee , Warranty  
 
(1) Unless otherwise stipulated by law or agreed by the parties, Supplier is obliged to provide a 1 -year 
guarantee . If the manufacturer of the contractual goods undertakes a longer guarantee period, the 
Supplier shall be obliged to deliver the given contractual goods with this longer guarantee period. 
The period of the guarantee shall commence with the acceptence of the  goods or services 
delivered in accordance with the contract at the place of performance specified by the Buyer, in 
case of delivery with installation with the receipt after installation.  
(2) The Supplier shall - subject to the choice of the Buyer - repair the lack of conformity (defect) that 
occured within the gurantee period without delay at its own cost or perform again the delivery or 
service in conformity (replacement). This shall also apply to supplies where only random checks 
have been carried out.  
(2) Should the Supplier fail or refuse to repair, remedy or replace the defective goods or service within 
the deadline specified by the Buyer , then the Buyer has the right according to its choice to   
-  ask for price r eduction , 
-  repair or deliver itself or have it repaired or delivered at the Supplier’s cost and risk ,  
- partially or entirely withdraw from the contract  or the relevant supply, furthermore  
- the Supplier shall fully reimbourse  the costs of the Buyer related to the substitute contract.  
   
 
           _____________  
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat:  H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability Company , registered at Company Registry Court of Budapest Capital Regional Court,  registration nr.: 01-09-345695 . 
3 
(3) Buyer is in all cases entitled to claim compensation for its damages from the Supplier.  
(4) Buyer shall check immediately after the delivery whether the supply complies with the quantity  and 
type requirements of the ordered goods , as well as whether there are any visible or other defects. 
If the Buyer discover s any defects during this inspection, it shall notify the Supplier of those defects. 
If the Buyer discover defects later, it shall notify the Su pplier equally. Warranty claims can be made 
within 6 (six) months after the delivery of goods or services, however if defects cannot be detected 
during installation, processing or first use, then within one month after discovery. In this respect, 
the Buyer  has no further obligation towards the Supplier other than the inspection and the above -
mentioned information obligation.  
(5) The cost and risk of repair or replacement of the defective performance shall be borne by the 
Supplier.  
(6) The above provisions shall apply mutatis mutandis to the performance during  the elimination of 
deficiencies.   
(7) For the warranty, the relevant provisions of the Civil Code shall prevail.   
 
8. Transfer of contractual rights and obligation to third person  
 
Supplier is not entitled to transfer its contractual rights and obligations to a third party without prior 
written approval of the Buyer. If Supplier transfers its contractual rights and oblig ations to a third 
party without prior written approval of the Buyer , it fails to comply with his obligation and Buyer is 
entitled to withdraw from the contract entirely or partly and claim damages.  
 
9. Material provided by Buyer  
 
(1) Any material provided fo r the Supplier remains the Buyer’s property and is to be stored, labelled and 
managed separately, free of charge at the Supplier’s risk. The Supplier may use these materials 
only after a prior written consent and for the purpose specified by the Buyer. The  Supplier shall 
compensate for a diminution in value, shortage, destruction, loss of the material. The above 
provision shall also apply  for accounted delivery of materials related  to an order.  
(2) The processing of the material, resp. transformation is made to the Buyer. Material processed or 
transformed upon the Buyer's order belongs to the Buyer. The Supplier shall safeguard the finished 
item free of charge.  
 
10. Termination of the contract  
 
(1) The contract terminates with the withdrawal of the Buyer.  
(2) The contract terminates if the Buyer terminates it in writing with 30 days notice.  
(3) Buyer is entitled to terminate the contract with immediate effect or withdraw from it in case of serious 
breach of the contract by the Supplier.  
(4) Buyer may withdraw from the cont ract at any time without giving reasons. In such a case, the 
Supplier is e ntitled to charge the Buyer for the delivered goods and provided services if the Buyer 
accepts the already established facilities, completed deliveries or services , however  the Supplier's 
claim for damages, be it any claim for damages - whether consequenti al or adhesive -  as well as 
lost profits, lost revenue, loss of production, compensation to third parties, penalties, costs, 
indemnification, etc is excluded.  
 
11.  Code of conduct for Supplier, security in supply chain  
 
(1) Supplier acknowledges that the Buyer has concluded the individual contract with the Supplier on 
the condition that the Supplier undertakes to fulfill the following and certifies this by signing the 
individual contract.  The Supplier undertakes to fully comp ly with the provisions of the Hungarian 
law governing the contract while performing it , and it shall not  engage, actively or passively, directly 
or indirectly, in any form of bribery, violation  of fundamental rights of its employees or child labour. 
Moreov er, the Supplier shall take responsibility for the health and safety of its employees at their 
workplace. Supplier is obliged to act in accordance with the applicable environmental laws and 
make the best efforts to promote this Code of Conduct among its Su ppliers and other contractual 
partners.  
   
 
           _____________  
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat:  H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability Company , registered at Company Registry Court of Budapest Capital Regional Court,  registration nr.: 01-09-345695 . 
4 
(2) If the Supplier violates these obligations, the Buyer  has the right to withdraw from the contract or 
terminate it without any further obligations. If, however, the Supplier’s breach of obligation is capable 
of remed y, withdrawal or termination may occur only after the conciliation discussions between the 
parties failed after a reasonable period of time.   
(3) The Supplier shall provide the necessary organizational instructions and take measures, particularly 
with regard t o the following: premises security, packaging and transport, business partner s, 
personnel and information - in order to guarantee the security in the supply chain according to the 
requirements of respective internationally recognized initiatives based on t he WCO SAFE 
Framework of Standards (e.g. AEO, C -TPAT).  
(4) The Supplier shall protect the goods and services provided to Buyer or to third parties designated 
by Buyer against unauthorized access and manipulation. The Supplier shall only deploy reliable 
person nel for those goods and services and shall obligate any subcontractors to take equivalent 
security measures.  
 
12. Tools, forms, samples, confidentiality  etc. 
 
 Any tools, patterns, samples, models, profiles, drawings, standard specification sheets, printing 
templates, forms and templates provided by the Buyer, as well as any materials derived therefrom, 
shall not be made available to any third party nor be used f or any other purposes than those 
contractually agreed, without the Buyer’s prior written approval. The Supplier shall protect these 
materials against unauthorised access and use. Without prejudice to any further rights, the Buyer 
may demand the return of s uch materials if the Supplier violates the duties referred to above.  
 The Supplier shall not make any information, data, know -how obtained from or related to the Buyer 
available to third parties without the prior written consent of the Buyer.  
 The Supplie r is obliged to maintain any equipment entrusted to him in a condition suitable for 
manufacturing or use and preserve them in the condition corresponding to the original.  
 
13. Protection of e nvironment, health and safety at work, dangerous goods  
 
(1) The Supplier  shall carry out its activities in accordance with the quality, environment -focused and 
occupational health and safety management system of the Buyer.  
(2) The Supplier shall be aware of the environmental impact of its own activities, occupational health 
and safety risks and comply with the current legislation in force on the protection of the environment 
and the establishment of safe working conditions that do not endanger health, and in particular with 
the following laws : 
Act CLXXXV . of 2012  on waste , 
Act LIII . of 1995  on general rules for the protection of the environment , 
Act LIII. of 1996 on protection of nature l 
Act XXV. of 2000  on chemical safety  
Act XC III. of 1993 on health and safety at work  („Mvt.”), as well as their implementing instructions 
and regulations . 
(3) If the contractual good is or is deemed to be electronic and falls under Government Decree of 2014. 
Nr. 197 and or Government Decree of 2012. Nr . 374, the Supplier shall ensure the product’s 
conformity with  the provision s of these decrees.  
(4) The Supplier is liable for all environmental damages and waste resulting from its activity. It is the 
obligation of the Supplier to manage the generated waste ( collecting, register, disposal) in 
accordance with the legal requirements . 
(5) The Supplier shall comply with environmental protection, occupational health and safety and fire 
safety requirements during its activity.  The Supplier shall ensure sufficient, quali fied (professional, 
occupational health and safety and fire protection) personnel for the tasks with vali d medical 
examination, suitable personal protective equipment, furthermore the use of other equipments 
required by occupational health and safety legislation.  
(6) The Supplier shall ensure that the information necessary to comply with the requirements reaches 
its employ ees. 
(7) The Buyer is entitled to monitor the Supplier’s compliance with the provisions in the field of 
environmental protection, occupational health and safety and fire safety at any time. If the Buyer 
discovers a serious non -compliance (endangering others, e ndangering the environment, working 
without protection at heights, irregular cranes, drinking alcohol), he is entitled to suspend work until 
   
 
           _____________  
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat:  H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability Company , registered at Company Registry Court of Budapest Capital Regional Court,  registration nr.: 01-09-345695 . 
5 
the non -compliance is remedied. The Buyer shall have no liability for the disadvantages (delayed 
performance) of th e Supplier deriving from the suspension of work.  
(8) Should the delivery contain goods which – according to international regulations – are classified as 
dangerous goods, the Supplier shall inform the Buyer thereof in a form agreed upon between 
Supplier and B uyer, but in no case later than the date of order confirmation.  
(9) Should the Supplier deliver legally permissible products, which are, however, subject to statutorily -
imposed substance restrictions and/ or information requirements (e.g. REACH, RoHS), the Su pplier 
shall declare such substances in the web database BOMcheck (www.BOMcheck.net) no later than 
the date of first delivery of products. The foregoing shall only apply with respect to laws which are 
applicable at the registered seat of Supplier or Siemen s Energy Kft. or at the designated place of 
delivery requested by Siemens Energy Kft.  
 
14. Reservation clause  
 
The Buyer’s obligation to fulfil this agreement is subject to the condition that the fulfilment is not 
hindered by any impediments arising out of national and international legal requirements related to 
foreign trade or any embargos (and/or other sanctions ).  
 
15. Export control and foreign trade data  
 
When providing goods and services in accordance with the present contract, the Supplier shall 
comply with all requirements of export, customs  and foreign trade legislation (hereinafter referred 
to as "Foreign Trade Regulations").  The Supplier shall forward to the Buyer in writing all necessary 
information and data required by Buyer to comply with all applicable Foreign Trade Regulations 
govern ing the export and import as well as the re -export of the goods and services of the given 
countries within 2 weeks upon receipt of the order or in case of any modification, including in 
particular the following:  
- all applicable export list numbers, includ ing the “Export Control Classification Number” pursuant 
to the U.S. Commerce Control List (ECCN); and  
- the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity classification for foreign trade 
statistics and the HS (Harmonized System) Code; and  
- the country of origin (non -preferential origin); and upon request of Buyer the preferential origin 
declarations by the Supplier (in the case of European Suppliers) or other preferential certificates (in 
the case of non -European Suppliers  
The Supplier sh all be liable for any expenses and damage incurred by Buyer due to the breach of 
the above obligation by the Supplier  unless the Supplier is not responsible  for the breach.  
 
16. Supplier’s insolvency  
 
If the Supplier has suspended its payments, or if bankruptc y or liquidation proceedings have been 
initiated against the Supplier by a final court decision, the Buye r is entitled to terminate or withdraw 
from the contract and / or any purchase order based on it . In the event of termination or withdrawal, 
the Buyer  is entitled, but not obliged to use the the already established facilities, completed 
deliveries or services provided  by the Supplier against fair payment . 
 
17. Jurisdiction , applicable law , final provisions  
 
(1) Unless otherwise stipulated in the contract, in case of any legal disputes arising from the contract 
and it’s integral part, the present General Terms the Hungarian law shall apply and it shall be under 
exclusive jurisdiction of Hungarian courts. Applicati on of the Vienna (United Nations) Convention 
on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is excluded .  
(2) By concluding the Individual Contract, the Parties accept that the rights and obligations do not 
necessarily apply to and burden equally the Par ties. The Parties, after careful consideration, 
expressly conclude the contract in line with this intention and at the same time exclude the right to 
appeal on the grounds of significant disproportion in value.  
(3) By concluding the contract, the Supplier  expressly renounce any possible right to enforce any 
claim(s) against the managers/executives of the Buyer.  
   
 
           _____________  
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat:  H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability Company , registered at Company Registry Court of Budapest Capital Regional Court,  registration nr.: 01-09-345695 . 
6 
(4) The custom widely known and regularly used by the subjects of a similar contract in the given 
business shall only become part of the agreement between the Supplier and the Buyer  if the 
Supplier and the Buyer  agree d about it expressly and in writing.  
(5) The liability of the Buyer is excluded for any damages be it direct, indirect, adhesive or 
consequential, furthermore for lost profits, loss of interest, loss of data, information  or business, 
penalties payable to third parties, compensation, loss of produc tion and manufacturing expect for 
damages caused intentionally or damages caused to life, physical integrity or health.  
(6) In matters not settled in the present General Terms  the provisions of the Civil Code shall apply.  
(7) Upon concluding the contract or acceptance of the order, the Supplier declares that is is aware of 
and accepts the Buyer 's Code of Conduct, the current version of which is available at 
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
 