 
Speak Up : Information about data protection and consent  
 
With its whistleblower system (“ Speak Up ”), provided through this application and a telephone dialogue 
system,  Siemens Energy1 provides a means for reporting specific indications of compliance violations. 
Compliance violations are violations of legal requirements or internal Siemens Energy  regulations, 
particularly the Business Conduct Guidelines. Speak Up  allows you to report specific indications of 
corruption, violations of financial reporting and accounting rules, theft, fraud, forging of documents, 
embezzlement, antitrust violations, unfair competition, securities trading violations, insider trading, 
disclosure of trade secrets or proprietary information, conflicts of interest and other criminal conduct that 
may be penalized with an administrative fine.  
The information you report will be evaluated by Siemens Energy  and, if necessary, its subsidiaries and  
other Siemens Energy  companies (collectively “ Siemens Energy ”). It may result in the initiation of 
internal and external investigations conducted by the authorities and have other negative consequences 
for those affected. You should therefore give us only  information which you assume to be correct to the 
best of your knowledge. Giving knowingly false or misleading information will have consequences for you. 
The intentional dissemination of false information is liable to criminal prosecution in many countri es. In 
general, please do not provide us with information if this is subject to prosecution in your country.  
 
Technical protection of the whistleblower system:  
Technical maintenance of Speak Up  is performed by Business Keeper AG, an independent operator l ocated 
in 10789 Berlin, Bayreuther Str. 35 (subsequently "BK AG"). The data is provided on protected servers of 
Telekom Deutschland GmbH in Germany. Only Siemens Energy  is responsible for processing the content of 
the reports.  
Personal data that is entered in the whistleblower system is stored in a database operated by BK AG. All 
data is encrypted, password -protected and stored at a secure location so that access to the content of the 
data electronically stored in Speak Up  is limited to a narrow circle of authorized persons of Siemens Energy . 
BK AG cannot view the content of the data electronically stored in this database.  
As long as you do not enter data which makes it possible to draw conclusions about your identity, this 
whistleblower system protects your anonymity automatically using a certified technical solution which is 
protected through numerous technical and organizational measures.  
 
Processing and sharing your report within Siemens Energy : 
Once your report has been received, the Compliance Department checks whether an in -depth investigation 
is required. An investigation can be conducted by internal or external investigation specialists. External 
specialists whom we engage are bound to Siemen s Energy  by contractual or legal confidentiality obligations 
to keep confidential the information provided by you.  
Depending on the content of your report, the Siemens Energy  personnel responsible for further processing 
of the issue reported will receive t he information provided by you. These are primarily the responsible 
members of the Compliance Department. The information will also be given to the management responsible 
within Siemens Energy , which also has to correct the shortcomings that may have been discovered during 
processing of the report. The Audit, Legal and HR Departments are frequently also involved in processing 
 
1 Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG, Headquarters: Munich, Germany; Court of Registration: Local Court of Munich, HRA 111200; Personally liable partner: Siemens Gas and Power 
Management GmbH; Headquarters: Munich, Germany; Court of Registration: Local Court of Munich,  HRB 241345. The Compliance Legal Department can be contacted at Otto -Hahn -Ring 6, 
81739 Munich, Germany  
 
 
 Speak Up - Information about data protection and consent  
2 
 
compliance reports. If your report involves a subsidiary, the responsible units in these companies will be 
notified.  
If the content of your report does not fall under any of the compliance categories listed above, we will 
forward your report to the responsible Siemens Energy  department, provided we conclude that this is 
necessary and appropriate. For personnel matters, for instance, th is may be the HR Department in charge. 
The general rule, however, is that Speak Up  is only used to record reports related to the report categories 
listed above.  
Siemens Energy  can also involve external specialists such as attorneys, auditors or forensic experts who 
will examine your report as commissioned by Siemens Energy . 
Please let us know  if you do not want us to share your personal data, particularly your name, with 
persons  outside the Siemens Energy  Compliance Department (unless this is necessary for safeguarding the 
legitimate interests of Siemens Energy ). Please note, however, that, as a consequence, we may not be able 
to give full consideration to your report.  
 
Access of  government agencies:  
  
Siemens Energy  may also be required by law to provide certain government agencies, including, 
without limitation, government investigative agencies or courts with information about compliance 
violations. If we are obligated to provi de information, as well as in the event of confiscations, we 
are not able to withhold the information provided by you.  
In some instances, Siemens Energy  is not obligated to share personal data with government agencies, but 
has the legal right to do so vol untarily.  Please let us know  if you do not want us to voluntarily share 
your personal data, including, without limitation, your name, with government agencies (unless this is 
necessary to safeguard the legitimate interests of  Siemens Energy ). Please note, however, that, as a 
consequence, we may not be able to give full consideration to your report.  
 
Sharing information with other countries:  
 
Personal information that you may have provided in your report, may be transferred to other EU 
countr ies or countries outside the EU where the confidential treatment of personal data is not guaranteed 
by law to the same extent as it is in Germany. This applies particularly to countries which are not 
considered to have an adequate level of data protection as provided for in the EU provisions. Within 
Siemens Energy , however, an adequate level of data protection is guaranteed through binding internal 
data protection guidelines also in countries other than Germany.  
Please let us know  if you do not want us to t ransfer your personal data, including, without limitation, 
your name, to countries other than Germany (unless this is necessary to safeguard the legitimate interests 
of Siemens Energy ). Please note, however, that, as a consequence, we may not be able to gi ve full 
consideration to your report.  
 
Notification of affected parties:  
 
It is frequently required by law that the persons about which a report on indications of a compliance 
violation has been received have to be notified and heard. In the course of the investigation, these persons 
will have the opportunity to present their vi ew about the report.  
Please let us know  if you do not want us to give your name as the whistleblower. Please note that the 
person affected may have legal rights to information which may require us to disclose your name. 
Government agencies may also have s imilar rights to information or confiscation which will result in 
disclosure of your name. This may be the case in particular if the person affected claims that the 
information brought forward against him/her is knowingly or negligently untrue and decides to file charges.    
  
 Speak Up - Information about data protection and consent  
3 
 
Storing personal data:  
 
The personal information you provided will be retained as long as  necessary for investigating and resolving 
the compliance report including the remediation of any shortcomings discovered and the handling of any 
ensuing litigation. Your personal data will be retained even longer if this is required due to legal, regulato ry 
or contractual obligations to retain records or if it is permitted by law. Your personal data will be deleted as 
soon as this is required by law.  
 
Consent and voluntary nature:  
 
As you enter information into the whistleblowing system, the system will as k for your consent to the 
collection, processing and use of your personal data included in the information as described above.  Please 
note that you can only proceed to the report form after you have clicked on the data processing consent 
box.  
If you do no t want Siemens Energy  to collect, process or use your personal data as described, 
you may submit your report anonymously. The disclosure of your personal data is voluntary, as 
is the use of the whistleblower system. We would, however, appreciate it, if you could give us your 
name. Many investigations can be conducted more quickly and efficiently if the name of the whistleblower 
is known, since the person handling the report can get in touch with the whistleblower directly.  
By using this whistleblower system, you agree that your personal data, to the extent provided 
by you, will be collected, processed and used as described above.   
 
 
Siemens  Energy , Compliance Legal  
 