Page  1 of 6  
Restricted   
 
Conditions of Purchase  
Status : April 2025 
 
1. Defini tions.  
            Except in cases where something expressly different is indicated, the 
expression "Customer" will mean Siemens Energy or Siemens and the 
term “Supplier ” will mean the natural or legal person, firm or company to 
whom the respective Purchase Order is addressed and in virtue of 
whose acceptance the obligation to provide the services and / or deliver 
the supplies in said document will be generated.  
In the event that  in addition to issuing a Purchase Order, a contract is 
signed, it will be understood that any reference to the Purchase Order 
made in this instrument will refer to the contract. In relation to the 
foregoing, it will be understood that the date of acceptan ce of the 
Purchase Order will be the date of subscription of the contract.  
2. Order and order confirmation  
2.1 The Customer may cancel the order if the Supplier has not confirmed 
its acceptance (confirmation) in writing within a period of two weeks 
from the moment of receipt.  
2.2 The Supplier declares that it is willing to execute the service and / or 
deliver the supplies entrusted by the Client at its own risk and expense, 
with personnel of its exclusive dependence and committing itself to 
have the necessary material or technical elements.  
2.3 The Client may require from the Supplier modifications to the service 
and / or supply that it deems pertinent and that are within the scope 
established in the Purchase Order.  
2.4 The contracted services include not only the performance by the 
Supplier of the specific actions that are specified in the Purchase Order, 
but also the execution of all other actions that, although not expressed, 
are necessary for the due, timely and satis factory compliance with the 
agreement, such as, for example, and without limitation, all materials, 
equipment, tools, drawings, standards, samples, guides, matrices, 
models, etc.  
2.5 Any modification, amendment or addition to the order will form part of 
the contract only if the Client expresses its acceptance in writing. In 
particular, the Client is bound by the general terms and conditions of 
the Supplier only if said terms and condit ions are in accordance with 
these Purchase Conditions or if the Client expresses their consent in 
writing. The acceptance of deliveries or services, as well as payments, 
does not constitute said consent.  
2.6 Any provision in other documents provided by the Supplier (for 
example, specifications, technical sheets, technical documentation, 
advertising materials, shipping documents and / or order confirmation, 
among others) concerning legal terms, responsibility, restriction of use, 
application restriction and/or suitability restriction, or any other provision 
that modifies the provisions of these Purchase Conditions will not be 
applicable.  
3. Rights of use  
3.1 By means of these Purchase Conditions, the Supplier grants the Client 
the following non -exclusive, transferable, perpetual,  and applicable 
worldwide rights:  
3.1.1  Right to use deliveries and services with related documentation, to 
integrate them into other products and to distribute them.  
3.1.2  Right to install, launch, test and operate the software and its related 
documentation (hereinafter, collectively, the "Software").  
3.1.3  Right to sublicense the right of use specified in sub -clause 3.1.2, lines 
above, to subsidiaries (as defined in section 15 of the German 
Company Law (Aktiengesetz), hereinafter referred to as the 
"Subsidiaries"), to contracted third parties, to distributors and to end 
customers.  
3.1.4  Right to allow Subsidiaries and other distributors to sublicense the right 
of use specified in sub -clause 3.1.2, lines above, to final Customers;  
3.1.5  Right to use the Software to integrate it with other products, to copy the 
Software or to allow Affiliates and contracted third parties to use and 
copy the Software.  
3.1.6  Right to distribute, sell, offer for rent, lease, prepare for download or 
make the Software available to the public, e.g. in the context of the 
provision of application services or in other contexts, and copy the 
Software to the extent required, provided t hat the number of licenses 
used at any time does not exceed the number of licenses purchased;  
3.1.7  Right to sublicense the right of use specified in sub -clause 3.1.6, lines 
above, to Subsidiaries, contracted third parties and distributors.  
3.2 In addition to the rights granted in sub -clause 3.1, lines above, the 
Client, the Subsidiaries and the distributors are authorized to allow the 
final clients to transfer the respective licenses.  
3.3 All sublicenses granted by Customer must contain appropriate 
protection for the Supplier 's intellectual property rights in the Software. 
All sublicenses must contain any contractual provision used by Customer to protect its own intellectual property rights.  
3.4 The Supplier will inform the Customer - at the latest at the time of order 
confirmation - if the products and services to be delivered contain open 
source components.  
In the context of this provision, "open source components" shall mean 
any software, hardware or other information that the respective licensor 
provides royalty -free to any user on the basis of a license with the right 
to modify and / or distribute (e.g. GNU General Public License (GPL), 
GNU Lessee's GPL (LGPL), or MIT License). If the products and 
services delivered by the Supplier  contain open source components, the 
Supplier  will comply with all applicable open source license terms and 
grant all these righ ts to the Customer; likewise, it will provide all the 
information that the Client needs in order to comply with the applicable 
license terms. In particular, the Supplier must deliver to the Customer 
immediately after the order is confirmed, the following:  
- An annex of all the open source  components used, in which the 
respective license is indicated, its version and include a copy of the 
full text of said license, as well as a reference to copyright and / or 
authorship. This annex must have an understandable structure and a 
table of conten ts. 
- - The full source code of the relevant open source software, including 
scripts and information about its generator environment as required 
by open source conditions . 
3.5 The Supplier, at the latest at the time of order confirmation, will notify the 
Client in writing if the open source licenses used by the Supplier  could 
be subject to a Copyleft Effect that could affect the Client's products. In 
the context of this provision, "Copyleft Effect" means that the provisions 
of the open source license require that some of the Supplier 's products, 
as well as any derivative products of such products, may only be 
redistributed in accordance with the terms of the open source license, for 
example  only if the source code is revealed. In the event that any open 
source license used by the Supplier  is subject to a "Copyleft Effect", as 
defined above, the Client has the right to cancel the order within a period 
of two weeks from receipt of this information.  
4. Period of validity and penalty for non -compliance  
4.1 These conditions, are part of the respective Purchase Order, render 
without effect any previous proposal or correspondence, and will enter 
into force from the moment of acceptance of the Purchase Order, 
whether express or tacit.  
4.2 The terms of the Supplier's catalogs, its general conditions of sale, its 
bases,  or technical specifications, bids, price lists or any other 
document prepared by it , that is not  expressly accepted by the Client in 
writing on the Purchase Order, are not applicable to the respective 
Purchase Order or to these conditions.  
4.3 In case of conflict between what is stipulated in the respective Purchase 
Order and what is established in any other complementary document 
to it, the terms of the Purchase Order will prevail . 
4.4 In situations not regulated by these conditions or by the Purchase 
Order, Chilean laws will govern, in accordance with the provisions of 
their applicable common and / or special regulations.  
4.5 The respective Purchase Order and all attached documentation will be 
binding for the parties from the date of acceptance thereof, even in the 
event that there is only a tacit acceptance by the Supplier.  
4.6 For all purposes, the respective Purchase Order is considered accepted 
on the date any of the following events occurs: a) Signature by the 
Supplier of the Purchase Order; b) 48 hours, counting from the sending 
of the respective Purchase Order by the Client  to the electronic address 
indicated by the Supplier, without there being a refusal on the part of 
the Supplier to execute the services or deliver the supply; c) Tacitly, by 
the mere fact that the Supplier initiates the execution of the order or the 
respec tive Purchase Order or manifests by any other fact its willingness 
to execute the services or deliver the supply . 
4.7 However, the Customer may withdraw from the Purchase Order at any 
time before it is accepted by the Supplier, without any right to 
compensation in favor of the latter.  
4.8 The terms stipulated or referred to in the Purchase Order are an 
essential condition for the conclusion of the agreement, which is why 
the Supplier waives their right to take any measure, judicial or not, that 
may interfere or hinder the normal execution o f the works and / or 
delivery of supplies within agreed deadlines  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page  2 of 6  
Restricted  4.9 For the purposes of establishing the punctuality  of delivery, the 
relevant point in time is the date of receipt at the place of 
destination/delivery in accordance with the Incoterms ® 2020 
designated by the Customer, and for deliveries that involve installation 
services, start -up and rectification, the relevant point in time will be the 
date of acceptance by the Client.  
4.10 If any delay in delivery or execution or rectification is foreseen, the 
Client will be notified immediately,  and a decision will be sought . 
4.11 If - in the event of a delay – and the Supplier cannot prove that it is not 
responsible for the delay, the Client may charge a penalty that will 
amount to 0.5% (zero point five percent) for each day affected by the 
delay, but whose total amount may not exceed 10% (ten percent) of 
the total value of the contract . 
In the event that the appropriate reservation of rights is not made at 
the time of acceptance of delivery, services or rectification, this penalty 
can still be claimed if the reservation of rights is made no later than the 
final payment date.  
4.12 In the event that the Supplier does not comply with its obligations within 
the established period or if the state of progress makes it difficult to 
comply within the agreed period, the Client in its opinion, and without 
prejudice to the other penalties est ablished in the Purchase Order or 
that by applicable law correspond to it, may : 
(1) Cancel the respective Purchase Order, and the Supplier must repair 
all damages caused to the Customer.  
(2) Maintain the respective Purchase Order in force, imposing on the 
SUPPLIER a penalty equivalent to that described in this section.  
(3) To entrust the supplies to third parties or execute the services on its 
own account or with others, the Supplier having to bear all the costs 
and expenses incurred as a result.  
4.13 All the foregoing shall be without prejudice to the SUPPLIER's 
obligation to indemnify SIEMENS for all damages caused to it.  
4.14 No special award will be paid if the supply or services are delivered or 
performed before the established date. However, SIEMENS reserves 
the right not to accept delivery of supplies in advance.  
4.15 This instrument does not affect additional rights or other legal rights .   
5. Modifications to the Purchase Order  
5.1  The Client may instruct the Supplier  to make changes, which must be 
carried out by it. In case the Supplier considers that these changes have 
an impact on costs or deadlines for it, it must inform Siemens of this 
circumstance in writing in no more than 10 calendar days for the parties 
to ana lyze the situation. In the event that the Supplier  does not inform 
the Client of the above, it will be understood that the change has been 
accepted and that it has no impact on the Supplier . The Supplier may 
not make changes to the Purchase Order without prior written 
acceptance from the Customer . 
6. Transfer of risk, Office and Place of execution, Transfer of title  
6.1 For deliveries that involve installation, commissioning or services, the 
transfer of risk occurs after acceptance and for deliveries that do not 
involve installation or commissioning, the transfer of risk will be upon 
receipt by the Customer at the designa ted place of destination / 
delivery in accordance with Incoterms ® 2020. Unless otherwise 
agreed, Incoterms ® 2020 DDP (designated place of destination) shall 
apply if (a) the Supplier's headquarters and designated place of 
destination are within the same country or if (b) the Supplier 's 
headquarters and designated place of destination are both in the 
European Union. If neither (a) nor (b) are met, Incoterms ® 2020 DAP 
(designated duty station) will apply, unless otherwise agreed.  
6.2 Unless otherwise agreed, the costs of proper packaging will be borne 
by the Supplier. In the event that the transportation costs are assumed 
by the Client, the notice of availability for dispatch will be sent, together 
with the information provided for in sub-clause 4.3. At the Customer's 
request, the Supplier must use an order routing tool from Siemens 
Energy. Transportation will be coordinated by the Supplier at the 
lowest possible cost, insofar as the Customer has not requested a 
particular delivery meth od or the conclusion of the transportation 
contract by the Customer. Any additional cost arising from non -
compliance with the transportation requirements, including costs 
arising from the non -application of the Siemens Energy order routing 
tool, shall be b orne by the Supplier. In the event that Incoterms ® 2020 
DAP / DDP (designated place of destination) are agreed, the Customer 
may also determine the method of transportation. Any additional cost 
arising from the need to meet the delivery date through impro ved 
delivery will be assumed by the Supplier.  
6.3 Each delivery will include a packing slip or a delivery note with details 
of the content, as well as the full order number.  
6.4 To the extent that the Customer and the Supplier agree that the 
Supplier orders the transport of deliveries containing dangerous goods 
on the Customer's behalf, the Supplier is responsible for transferring 
the legally required data on necessary goods to th e forwarder 
designated by the Customer when plac ing the transport order. In these 
cases, the Supplier is also responsible for packaging, marking, 
labeling, etc. in compliance with the respective regulation of the forms 
of transport used.  
 
 6.5 If the Client informs the Supplier that after the initial transport, another 
transport with a different form of transport is to be scheduled, the 
Supplier will also follow the relevant legal requirements concerning 
dangerous goods in relation to the transp ort in progress.  
6.6 The transfer of title will occur after delivery or acceptance by the 
Customer, as the case may be.  
7. Payments and Invoices  
7.1 Unless otherwise agreed, payments must be made no later than 30 
(thirty) days net. If the payment is made within 14 (fourteen) days, the 
Client is entitled to a 3% (three percent) discount. The payment period 
will start as soon as any delivery or service i s completed and a properly 
issued invoice is received.  
7.2 The order number as well as the number of each individual item will be 
detailed on the invoices. As long as such details are omitted, the invoices 
will not be payable. Copies of invoices will be marked as duplicates . 
7.3 Insofar as the Supplier has to provide important evidence, test records 
or quality control documents or any other documentation, these will form 
part of the integrity of delivery or execution requirements. A discount will 
also be allowed if the Client comp ensates or withholds any payment to 
some reasonable extent on account of any deficiencies . 
7.4 The payment does not constitute an acknowledgment of the 
corresponding delivery or that the services were provided under the 
contract.  
7.5 In the event that S iemens  pays the S upplier sums of money not owed by 
virtue of the Purchase Order, the S upplier  undertakes to immediately 
notify S iemens  about said payment (of monies not owed) and to 
reimburse S iemens the corresponding amounts within five business 
days following the date in which the payment of the non -due took place. 
After this period has elapsed without the S upplier having made the 
reimbursement to S iemens , the S upplier  will be considered a possessor 
in bad faith with respect to the sums not owed and must pay S iemens  
interest on arrears at the maximum legal rate for each day in which it is 
delayed. in making the reimbursement, without prejudice to the right of 
Siemens  to initiate the legal actions that may arise. In addition, Siemens  
will always have the power to deduct from other payments that may be 
owed, whether from this Purchase Order or another, for any reason, the 
amounts owed by the S upplier  to Siemens , for exampl e, for amounts 
erroneously paid, for concept of fines, penalties, compensation or 
others. . 
7.6 The making of any payment may not be considered as an acceptance of 
the supplies or services that are part of the scope of the Purchase Order, 
nor as a waiver of the rights of Siemens  of any kind.  
7.7 The payment conditions will be set at the time of negotiating the supply 
or provision of services and will be indicated in the body of the Purchase 
Order. In the case of supplies, payments made for materials and 
equipment will not affect the right of Siemens  to recover the sums in the 
event that the materials and equipment are deficient . 
7.8 Siemens  will proceed to make payments for services or supplies only to 
the extent that it has received them in accordance, declaring it in writing.  
7.9 In accordance with current legislation, the Supplier  may assign the 
credits contained in the invoices issued on the occasion of the Purchase 
Order, provided that the requirements defined in Law 19,983 and any 
other applicable rule are met. With everything and without limiting the 
powers conferred on the  Supplier in this regard by current legislation, the 
latter undertakes to inform at least 15 days in advance of any 
assignment , of its intention to assign any credit, indicating the factoring 
companies with w hich it intends  to operate. The S upplier will ensure that 
the invoices that it transfers are accepted in all respects by Siemens . 
Siemens  will not pay the Supplier  or third-party  assignees amounts 
corresponding to invoices that have not been accepted by Siemens in 
accordance with the applicable regulations. Failure to do what is 
indicated above in this paragraph will be considered a serious 
contractual breach. In the event that the Supplier  receives the payment 
of an invoice by Siemens  that it has assigned,  it must return the money 
in question to the latter in no more than 5 business days. In case of not 
returning the money within that period, it will pay a fine equivalent to 
100% of the value of the amount to be restored for each day of delay, 
without prejudice to all other rights that corresponds to Siemens  for the 
matter . 
 
8. Inspection after receipt  
8.1 The Customer, immediately upon receipt at the designated destination, 
will examine whether a delivery corresponds to the quantity and type of 
products ordered and whether there is any recognizable transport 
damage or other apparent deficiencies.  
8.2 If the Client detects any deficiency in the course of these inspections or 
at any later stage, it will communicate said deficiency to the Supplier.  
8.3 Claims can be filed within the period of one month of delivery of a product 
or execution, and to the extent that deficiencies are not detected until 
commissioning, processing or first use, within a month of being detected.  
8.4 In this sense, the Customer will have no more duties towards the 
Supplier than the inspection and notification duties mentioned above.  
 
Page  3 of 6  
Restricted  9. Guarantee  
9.1 If deficiencies are identified before or during the transfer of risk or during 
the warranty period stipulated in sub -clauses 9.8 or 9.9, the Supplier 
must, at its own expense and at the discretion of the Client, repair the 
deficiency or provide the service s again or replace the deliveries (i.e. 
rectify). This provision also applies to deliveries subject to inspection by 
sampling tests. The Client's judgment will be exercised appropriately 
and reasonably.  
9.2 If the Supplier fails to rectify (that is, repair or replace) any deficiency 
within a reasonable period of time established by the Customer, the 
Customer will have the following rights:  
9.3 Right to cancel the contract in whole or in part without being subject to 
any liability for damages.  
9.4 Right to demand a price reduction.  
9.5 Right to carry out any repairs at the Supplier's expense or to re -render 
the services or make replacement deliveries or have it done.  
9.6 Right to demand damages in lieu of the provision.  
9.7 For the purposes of establishing the rectification deadlines, the relevant 
point in time is the date of receipt at the destination.  
9.8 The rights stipulated in sub -clause 9.2 can be exercised without 
additional time limits if the Client has a strong vested interest in 
immediate rectification in order to avoid any own liability for the delay 
or other urgent reasons and it is unreasonable f or the Client to request 
the Supplier to rectify the deficiency within a reasonable period of time. 
The legal provisions on the need to set a deadline are not affected.  
9.9 The aforementioned rights will expire after one year from the date of 
notification of the deficiency, but in no case before the expiration of the 
warranty periods established in this sub -clause.  
9.10 Additional or other legal rights are not affected.  
9.11 If the Supplier provides a subsequent execution or makes repairs, the 
warranty periods established in sub -clauses 9.8 and 9.9 must start to 
be executed again.  
9.12 Notwithstanding the transfer of risk in connection with the delivery, the 
Supplier shall bear the costs and risk related to the rectification ( e.g. 
return costs, transport costs, uninstallation,  and reinstallation costs).  
9.13 The warranty period for material deficiencies is three years, insofar as 
no legal provision grants longer periods.  
9.14 The warranty period for deficiencies in the title is five years, to the extent 
that no legal provision grants longer periods.  
9.15 For deliveries that do not involve installation or commissioning, the 
warranty period begins to operate with receipt at the destination 
designated by the Customer. For deliveries involving installation, 
commissioning or services, the warranty period begins  to operate with 
the Customer's acceptance. After delivery to places where the Client is 
carrying out operations outside its facilities, the warranty period begins 
with the acceptance of the end Client, in no case after one year counted 
from the transfer o f risk.  
10. Supplier´s Duty to verify and inform  
10.1 The Supplier has the obligation to examine components such as, for 
example, raw material, provided by the Customer or by the suppliers, 
manufacturers or other third parties of the Supplier at the time of 
receipt of such components in relation to whether th e components 
show any apparent or hidden defect. In the event that defects are 
detected in the course of such inspections, the Supplier will 
immediately notify its suppliers or - in the event that the components 
are provided by the Customer - will contact the Customer. It is essential 
that the products are delivered free of third -party rights. Therefore, the 
Supplier has the duty to verify the title and to inform the Client of any 
possible industrial and intellectual property rights in conflict. Failure to 
comply with this duty is subject to the regular statutory limitation period . 
10.2 The S upplier  must deliver to S iemens a bank guarantee to guarantee 
the faithful fulfillment of the obligations acquired by the Purchase 
Order. Along with this, the S upplier  must deliver to S iemens  a bank 
guarantee for the quality of the supply or service. S iemens  will inform 
the S upplier the amount of both tickets . 
10.3 In the event that the S upplier  must renew a bank 
guarantee, it must do so 15 business days prior to the expiration of 
that guarantee that is renewed. Likewise, the bank guarantee for the 
quality of the supply or service must be delivered within 15  working 
days in advance of the expiration of the bank guarantee to ensure the 
faithful fulfillment of the obligations.  
10.4 In the event of extension of terms of the Purchase Order, the warranty 
period or others, regardless of the cause, the SUPPLIER must renew 
the corresponding warranty certificates.  
10.5 Failure to comply with any obligation related to any  bank  guarantee 
will entitle the SUPPLIER to terminate the Purchase Order early, 
without prejudice to any other measures that it may take.  
11. Quality management, third party outsourcing  
11.1 The Supplier shall maintain a Quality Management System (e.g. in 
accordance with DIN EN ISO 9001).  
11.2 Subcontracting to third parties will not be carried out without the prior written consent of the Client and empowers the Client to terminate the 
contract in whole or in part and to claim damages.  
12. Provisi on of material. Informa tion  
12.1 Material and information provided by the Client remain the property of 
the Client and must be stored, labeled as the property of the Client and 
managed separately at no cost to the Client. Its use is only limited to 
the instructions of the Client. The Supp lier will provide the replacements 
in the case of reduction of value or loss, for which the Supplier is 
responsible, even in the case of simple negligence. This also applies to 
the transfer of assigned material.  
12.2 Any processing or transformation of the material and information will be 
carried out for the Client. Immediately, the Customer will be the owner 
of the new and transformed product. If this is not possible for legal 
reasons, the Customer and the Supplier he reby agree that the 
Customer will own the new product at all times during processing or 
transformation. The Supplier will keep the new product safe for the 
Customer, at no additional cost, and in doing so will exercise the duty 
of care of a merchant.  
13. Tools, standards, samples. Confidentiality  
13.1 Any tools, patterns, samples, models, profiles, plans, standard 
specification sheets, printing formats and materials provided by the 
Client or made for the Client, as well as any materials from them, will 
not be made available to third parties. nor will th ey be used for purposes 
other than those contractually agreed, except with the prior written 
consent of the Client. Such materials will be protected against 
unauthorized access or use. Subject to any additional rights, the Client 
may demand that said mater ials be returned if the Supplier fails to fulfill 
these functions.  
13.2 The Supplier will treat confidentially all the knowledge and findings, 
documents, terms of reference, business processes or other 
information that it receives from the Client or about the Client in the 
context of carrying out deliveries and services, as well as information 
about entering into the contract and any results in front of third parties - 
and will keep said information  confidential beyond the period of validity 
of the contract - as long as , and to the extent that , said information is 
not publicly known through legal means or the Client has not allowed in 
writing its transfer in the individual case. The Supplier will make 
confidential information available only to those employees who need 
the information for the performance of their duties and will ensure that 
said employees are also bound by a duty to treat such information 
confidentially. The Supplier will use this information exclusively for the 
purposes of making deliveries and services. Insofar as the Client agrees 
to subcontract to third partie s, such third parties will agree to the 
aforementioned terms in writing.  
14. Assignment  
Claims may not be assigned without the prior approval of the Client.  
14.1 The Supplier undertakes not to assign the Purchase Order in whole or 
in part or the obligations or rights contracted without prior authorization 
from SIEMENS. In no case will the assignment diminish the 
SUPPLIER's responsibilities for the fulfillment of the assigned 
obligations in whole or in part. The total or par tial transfer without prior 
written authorization from SIEMENS will empower the Purchase Order 
to be totally or partially canceled and / or to demand compensation from 
the SUPPLIER for any damages.  
14.2  If the SUPPLIER is a natural person and dies during the validity of the 
Purchase Order, SIEMENS may rescind it without the right to pay any 
compensation in favor of the succession or the administrators of the 
SUPPLIER's assets.  
14.3 SIEMENS may assign the Purchase Order at any time to its related 
companies or to any company of the Siemens global group, without 
requiring prior authorization from the SUPPLIER.  
14.4 SUBCONTRACTING. The SUPPLIER shall not subcontract the 
execution of one or more of the activities in charge of it, unless 
SIEMENS expressly authorizes it, in writing.  
14.5 Any subcontracting carried out by the SUPPLIER must be previously 
informed in writing to SIEMENS for its approval,  
           who may reject such subcontracting without having to express its 
reasons. In the event that the SUPPLIER requires to subcontract part 
of the services or supplies of the Purchase Order and such contracting 
is approved by SIEMENS, this will not release it fr om its obligations and 
responsibilities towards SIEMENS.  
14.6 The SUPPLIER will adopt the necessary measures so that the 
subcontractor accepted by SIEMENS fully complies with the provisions 
of the Purchase Order.  
14.7 SIEMENS reserves the right to demand the immediate removal of a 
subcontractor if the subcontractor is not properly executing the 
assigned work.  
14.8 No measure taken by SIEMENS in accordance with this clause shall 
release the SUPPLIER from its obligations or empower it to claim 
damages or time extension . 
15. Right to rescind and cancel  
15.1 In addition to the rights stipulated according to  the law to rescind or 
cancel a contract, the Client may cancel the contract in whole or in part 
Page  4 of 6  
Restricted  in the event (a) that the Supplier commits a delay in its delivery or 
service and said delay - despite a corresponding reminder from the 
Client - persists for more than two weeks after receipt of such reminder 
or in the event (b) that the Client's adherenc e to the contract cannot be 
reasonably expected from the Client due to a reason attributable to the 
Supplier  and considering the circumstances of the case and the 
interests of both parties. In particular, this could be applicable in the 
event of an actual or potential deterioration of the Supplier's financial 
situation that consequently threatens the due fulfillment of the 
Supplier's obligations under the contract .  
15.2 Likewise, the Client may terminate the contract in the event that a 
bankruptcy or similar process in relation to the Supplier 's assets is 
requested or initiated.  
15.3 In the event of termination of the Client, the Client may continue to use 
the existing facilities, deliveries or services already performed by the 
Supplier  in exchange for a reasonable payment.  
16. Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy Suppliers. Supply Chain 
Security  
16.1 The Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal 
system(s). In particular, the Supplier will not engage, actively or 
passively, nor directly or indirectly in any form of bribery, in any violation 
of basic human rights of employees or any child labor and the Supplier 
shall comply with the regulations of the Siemens Energy Code of 
Conduct and address these expectations to its own suppliers along its 
supply chain. Moreover, the Supplier will take responsibility for the 
health and safety of its employees and shall fulfill the applicable 
minimum wage requirements. By acting in accordance with the 
applicable environmental laws, the Supplier shall take adequate 
measures to avoid the deployment of so -called conflict minerals and 
shall create t ransparency over the origin of raw materials. The Supplier 
shall provide a protected grievance mechanism for its own employees 
to report possible violations of this Code of Conduct and will take 
reasonable measures to make its suppliers comply with the pri nciples 
of this Code of Conduct and to verify this on a risk basis. Supplier shall 
be obliged to duly document its compliance with the Code of Conduct. 
Customer and its representatives or a third party appointed by the 
Customer and reasonably acceptable to Supplier shall be entitled (but 
not obliged) to conduct – also at S upplier’s premises – inspections in 
order to verify Supplier’s compliance with the contractual obligations, in 
particular with the Code of Conduct. Any such inspection may only be 
conducte d in accordance with the applicable data protection law and 
shall neither unreasonably interfere with Suppliers' business activities 
nor violate any of Suppliers' confidentiality agreements with third 
parties. Supplier shall reasonably cooperate in any ins pection to be 
conducted. Supplier shall immediately initiate any remedial actions if it 
detects any violation of the Code of Conduct by itself or its 
subcontractors and shall promptly inform Customer of any such 
violation and the remedial action if and to the extent such breach affects 
the contract.  
16.2 The Supplier will provide the necessary organizational instructions and 
take measures, in particular with regard to the following security: 
security of facilities, packaging and transport, business partner, 
personnel and information - in order to guarantee  security in the supply 
chain in accordance with the requirements of internationally recognized 
initiatives based on the WCO SAFE framework of standards ( e.g. AEO, 
C-TPAT). The Supplier will protect the goods and services provided to 
the Client or to third  parties designated by the Client against 
unauthorized access and manipulation. The Supplier will use reliable 
personnel for these goods and services and will oblige sub -suppliers to 
adopt equivalent security measures.  
16.3 In addition to the other rights and remedies that the Client may have, 
the Client may terminate the contract in the event of breach of the 
obligations contemplated in Clause 16by the Supplier . However, 
provided that the Supplier's contractual breach can be remedied, the 
Client's right to terminate is subject to the provision that such event of 
breach has not been remedied by the Supplier within a grace period 
established by the Client.  
17. Product Compliance, Product Related Environmental 
Protection including Substance Declaration, Dangerous Goods, 
Occupational Health and Safety  
17.1 If the Supplier delivers products to which legal or regulatory 
requirements related to products apply in view of their being placed i n 
the market and further commercialization in the European Economic 
Area , or to which the corresponding requirements apply in relation to 
other countries notified by the Customer to the Supplier, the Supplier 
must ensure compliance of the product with these requirements at the 
time of risk transfer. Likewise, the Supplier must ensure that all 
documents and information that are  necessary to demonstrate the 
conformity of the products with the respective requirements can be 
delivered immediately to the Client, upon request.  
17.2 If the Supplier delivers products whose substances appear in the so -
called “List of Declarable Substances ” (www.bomcheck.net/  
Proveedor s/restricted -and-declarable -substances -list) applicable at the time of order or subject to legally imposed substance restrictions and / 
or information requirements (e.g. REACH, RoHS), the Supplier  will 
declare said substances and provide the information requested in the 
BOMcheck web database (www.BOMcheck.ne t) no later than on the 
date corresponding to the first delivery of products. With respect to 
legally imposed restrictions on substances, the foregoing shall only apply 
to laws that are applicab le at the registered office of the Supplier or the 
Client or at the place of destination designated by the Client . 
17.3 If the delivery contains goods that - according to international regulations 
- are classified as dangerous goods, the Supplier shall notify the 
Customer in the manner agreed between the Supplier and the Customer, 
but in no case not later than the confirmat ion date Of the order. The 
dangerous goods requirements in sub -clauses 4.4 and 4.5 are not 
affected . 
17.4 The Supplier is obliged to comply with all legal requirements regarding 
the health and safety of the personnel employed by the Supplier. It must 
be ensured that the health and safety of its personnel, as well as the 
indirect subcontractors employed to carr y out deliveries and services, 
are protected.  
18. Cybersecurity   
18.1 The Supplier shall adopt appropriate organizational and technical 
measures to ensure the level of confidentiality, authenticity, integrity 
and availability of the Supplier's Operations, as well as the products and 
services. These measures will be consistent with good industry practice 
and wil l include an appropriate Information Security Management 
System that is consistent with standards such as ISO / IEC 27001 or 
IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable).  
18.2 "Supplier Operations" shall mean all assets, processes and systems 
(including computer systems), data (including Customer data), 
personnel and sites, used or processed by the Supplier periodically in 
the execution of this contract.  
18.3 In the event that the products or services contain software, firmware or 
chipsets, the Supplier  will have the following obligations:  
18.4 Implement appropriate standards, processes and methods and in line 
with good industry practices and standards such as ISO / IEC 27001 or 
IEC 62443 (where applicable), in order to avoid, identify, evaluate and 
repair any vulnerability, malicious code and se curity incident in products 
and services.  
18.5 Do not stop offering and providing the Customer services for the repair, 
improvement, updating and preservation of products and services, 
including the provision of patches, which rectify vulnerabilities during 
the estimated useful life of the products and  services.  
18.6 Provide the Customer with a material record that identifies all third -party 
software components contained in the products. The third -party 
software will be updated upon delivery to the Customer.  
18.7 Grant the Client the right, without implying an obligation for the Client, 
to test or have tested products for handling malicious code and 
vulnerabilities at any time, as well as to offer the Client adequate 
assistance.  
18.8 Provide the Client with a contact (available during business hours) in 
the event of any information security incident.  
18.9 The Supplier  will immediately notify the Client of all relevant or 
suspected information security incidents and vulnerabilities discovered 
in the Supplier 's Operations, services, and products, if, and to the extent 
that the Client is or is likely to be affected substantially.  
18.10  The Supplier shall adopt appropriate measures to ensure that its 
subcontractors and Suppliers, within a reasonable period of time, are 
bound by obligations similar to the provisions of this clause 16.  
18.11  At the Client's request, the Supplier will demonstrate in writing its 
compliance with this clause 16 including generally accepted audit 
reports (e.g. SSAE -16 SOC 2 Type II).  
19. Export control regulations and foreign trade data  
19.1 The Supplier will comply with all applicable export control, customs 
and foreign trade regulations (hereinafter, the “Foreign Trade  
Regulations“). In particular, the Supplier represents and warrants that 
none of its products nor its services provided under the contract contain 
products and/or services restricted for import under the Foreign Trade 
Regulations applicable to the Customer, including but not limited to 
Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 2022/263 or 765/2006, 
each as amended, and import restrictions enforced by the U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection. The Supplier will communicate to the 
Client in writing, within a period of two weeks from the receipt of the 
order - and in the case of changes without undue delay -, all information 
and data required from the Client to comply with all Foreign Trade 
Regula tions. in the case of export and import, as well as re -export, 
which include the following:  
- all applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control 
Classification Number according to the U.S. Commerce Control List 
(ECCN); and  
- the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity 
classification for foreign trade statistics and the HS (Harmonized 
System) coding including the respective tariff basis on which the 
classification of the product has been performed (e.g. EU Combined 
Nomenclature, TARIC, US HTS); and  
Page  5 of 6  
Restricted  - the country of origin (non -preferential origin) as well as the region of 
origin, if applicable for the respective country of origin; proof of origin 
(e.g. Packing -List, Delivery Note, BOL, GAI); and  
- upon request of the Customer: preferential statement including 
Supplier’s declaration of preferential origin (in case of European 
suppliers) or preferential certificates (in case of non -European 
suppliers);  
and 
-upon request of the Customer: evidence of the country of origin of the 
iron and steel inputs used for the processing of the products.  
 
Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage incurred by 
the Customer due to any breach of the obligations according to this 
section 1 9.1 
 
19.2 Ban on re -exports to Russia („No -Russia -Clause“)  
The following clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) the Customer 
supplies any goods or technology to the Supplier in the course of the 
execution of the contract, (ii) such supplied goods or technology are or 
refer to goods listed in the Annexes set out in Article 12 g EU 
Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as 
amended and (iii) and the supply takes place from  the EU to a third 
country except for partner countries according to Article 12 g EU 
Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as 
amended:  
 
- The Customer hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the Supplier 
agrees, not to re -export and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia 
or Belarus or for use in Russia or Belarus any supplied goods as well 
as technology (and related documentation, reg ardless of the mode of 
provision) provided by the Customer to the Supplier under  
the contract.  
- The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the contract by written 
notice in the event of a breach by the Supplier of the obligation 
pursuant to this section 1 9.2. Upon termination, the Supplier shall pay 
to the Customer all costs and damages incurred by the Customer from 
such termination. In any case, the Supplier shall pay the Customer 
liquidated damages in the amount of 20 % of the contract price.  
- Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove in this section 1 2.2, the 
Supplier shall indemnify and hold harmless the Customer in full from 
and against any claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and damage 
asserted by public authorities or other third parties against the 
Customer arising out of or relating to a b reach by the Supplier of the 
obligations under this section 1 9.2 and the Supplier shall compensate 
the Customer for all losses and expenses incurred resulting thereof.  
 
The following clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) the Customer 
supplies any goods or technology to the Supplier in the course of the 
execution of the contract, (ii) such supplied goods or technology are or 
refer to goods listed in the Annexes set o ut in Article 12 g EU 
Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as 
amended and (iii) and the supply takes place from the EU to a third 
country except for partner countries according to Article 12 g EU 
Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8 g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as 
amended:  
 
- The Customer hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the Supplier 
agrees, not to re -export and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia 
or Belarus or for use in Russia or Belarus any supplied goods as well 
as technology (and related documentation, reg ardless of the mode of 
provision) provided by the Customer to the Supplier under  
the contract.  
- The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the contract by written 
notice in the event of a breach by the Supplier of the obligation 
pursuant to this section 1 9.2. Upon termination, the Supplier shall pay 
to the Customer all costs and damages incurred by the Customer from 
such termination. In any case, the Supplier shall pay the Customer 
liquidated damages in the amount of 20 % of the contract price.  
- Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove in this section 1 9.2, the 
Supplier shall indemnify and hold harmless the Customer in full from 
and against any claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and damage 
asserted by public authorities or other third parties against the 
Customer arising out of or relating to a b reach by the Supplier of the 
obligations under this section 1 9.2 and the Supplier shall compensate 
the Customer for all losses and expenses incurred resulting thereof.  
 
20. Saving clause  
The Client will not be obliged to fulfill the contract if said fulfillment is 
affected by impediments arising from the requirements of foreign trade 
or national or international customs or any embargo clause or other 
sanctions.  
21. Force  Majeure   
21.1 An unforeseen event or force majeure will be understood according to the provisions of article 45 of the Civil Code.  
21.2 In the event that the Supplier is in an unforeseen event or force 
majeure, he must notify the Customer in writing as soon as possible and 
in any case within 48 hours from the occurrence of the events. The lack 
of timely notice by the Supplier , will make it impossible to enforce the 
unforeseen event or force majeure before the Client for all legal 
purposes.  
21.3 Strikes, stoppages or events arising from personnel directly or 
indirectly dependent on the Supplier  will not be considered force 
majeure or an unforeseen  event . 
 
22. Termination and Suspension  
The Client may terminate immediately, and without the Supplier  having 
any right to compensation, in the following cases : 
 
a) The death of the Supplier  if he/she is a natural person or the 
dissolution of the company when it is a legal person.  
b) The financial incapacity of the Supplier, which is presumed when it is 
declared bankrupt, is in a state of insolvency, if it does not fulfill 
its labor obligations or when it incurs in partial or total cessation 
of payments to its creditors.  
c) When the Supplier fails to comply with the conditions stipulated in 
this document or in the purchase orders issued or is not 
competent to carry them out.  
d) When the Supplier  incurs in actions or omissions that deteriorate or 
affect the trust placed in them or the good name of the Client, 
due to the execution of its activities.  
e) In the event that the Client detects any anomaly or irregularity in the 
execution of the Purchase Order.  
f) At any time, when the Supplier fails to comply with the rules of the 
Customer's Code of Conduct for Suppliers.  
g) When there are obstacles derived from national or international 
regulations of foreign trade law, embargoes (and / or other 
sanctions) that prevent compliance by the Supplier , such as 
when the Supplier  is reported on the list of Sanctioned Parties 
Screening (“Clinton List”) or other lists of a similar nature.  
h) For not complying with the Supplier  with the labor or social security 
provisions, or with their regulatory standards.  
i) For any breach of the Supplier.  
 
However, the Client may at any time and without expression of cause, 
by means of a written communication addressed to the Supplier, at least 
15 days in advance, terminate the Purchase Order, without the payment 
of any compensation in favor of the Supplier.  In any case, the Client will 
pay the Supplier the value of the supplies fully delivered and / or 
services provided to their satisfaction, up to the date on which the 
termination notice has been given.  
 
           The Supplier and the Client may also agree at any time by mutual 
agreement to terminate the Purchase Order.  
 
Without prejudice to cases of force majeure, the Client may, at its 
convenience, suspend or stop immediately and for the time it deems 
necessary the execution of the Purchase Order. In these cases, the 
Client will reimburse the Supplier for the justified a nd accredited costs 
that have been directly caused by the suspension and may grant the 
Supplier increases in terms of time. Any request from the Supplier 
relative to what is indicated in this paragraph must be made no more 
than 5 calendar days from the ord er to restart the execution of the 
Purchase Order.  
23. Indemni ty 
23.1  The Supplier shall indemnify and hold SIEMENS harmless in relation to 
the acts or omissions of the SUPPLIER or its personnel or its 
subcontractors during the execution of its activities. The SUPPLIER 
must take all the necessary actions to execute the Purch ase Order 
under its sole responsibility and risk. The SUPPLIER undertakes to 
reimburse SIEMENS any sum of money that the latter is obliged to pay 
for such reasons. The SUPPLIER will be liable for any damage caused 
by its employees or its subcontracto rs to third parties or to SIEMENS, 
even when such damages are claimed once the Purchase Order has 
been completed.  
23.2 Likewise, the SUPPLIER will defend and will hold SIEMENS and its 
employees or representatives free of fault for any lawsuit, legal and 
administrative actions, claims, demands, damages, obligations, 
interests, attorneys' fees, costs and expenses of any kind  or nature, and 
whether they arise before or after the  duration  of the Purchase Order. 
The foregoing will apply even if the issues are indirectly caused by the 
SUPPLIER or by anyone acting under its direction or control or on its 
behalf in relation t o or participating in the execution of the Purchase 
Order . 
23.4 SIEMENS will only be liable for direct and patrimonial damages derived 
from the actions or omissions that are directly attributable to it. Under 
no circumstances will it be liable for indirect damages, lost profits, 
Page  6 of 6  
Restricted  consequential damages, or moral damages. Furthermore, in no case 
will the liability of SIEMENS exceed the value of the Purchase Order.  
23.5 The SUPPLIER expressly waives its rights to demand and collect 
compensation from SIEMENS, which, considered individually or in 
added value, are higher than the price of the Purchase Order.  
24. Mention of Siemens as a Client Reference  
Only with the prior written approval of the Client, will the Supplier be 
allowed to mention the Client as a reference client and / or make 
reference to products or services that the Supplier has developed 
during the execution of an order for the Client . 
25. Complementary provisions  
25.1 As long as  these Purchase Conditions do not regulate certain matters, 
the relevant legal provisions will apply.  
25.2 The Supplier  will be responsible for all damages caused to the Client 
as a result of the breach of these conditions, in particular of the 
sections  
25.3 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16 and 17, unless the Supplier is not 
responsible for such breach.  
26. Jurisdiction and applicable legislation  
26.1 The applicable law will be Chilean. The Parties establish their domicile 
in Santiago de Chile, excluding the provisions of the United Nations 
Merchandise Law of April 11, 1980.  
 
 
27. Suppliers with Payment Statements  – EDP.  
 
E       THE SUPPLIER will issue a payment statement and a monthly invoice for the 
total of the services rendered or supplies delivered. Seven (7) days before the 
issuance of said invoice, the SUPPLIER will send a payment statement in Excel 
format, indicatin g in detail the services provided or supplies delivered. If the 
payment status is approved, an RDS number (HES) will be sent to the 
SUPPLIER, so that it can be referred to in the Purchase Order on the invoice 
in the fields established according to the int ernal communications that are sent 
with each Purchase Order and  considering the technical instructions for 
electronic invoicing. SIEMENS will always be able to object to charges for non -
conformity and to justly reject the payment statements. If there are 
observations, th e SUPPLIER  will be told and  shown  the errors in the payment 
statement  or the history of disagreement or rejection and the SUPPLIER will 
correct the inconveniences and present a payment stat ement  again to 
SIEMENS for review. In the latter cas e, SIEMENS will have a period of 15 
business days to review the Payment Stat ement  and the situation. If there are 
still problems, the  above  procedure will be repeated until there are no problems, 
to the satisfaction of SIEMENS.  
 
For the approval of the Payment Status by SIEMENS, it will be a requirement 
that the latter ha s confirmed receipt in writing of  the service or supply . 
Additionally, the SUPPLIER must attach, at least, the following 
documents, if applicable:  
 
a) Form for the issuance of payment statements for the SIEMENS SUPPLIER.  
b) Support documents related to the provision of the service or delivery of the supply.  
c) Documents that account for the fulfillment of the corresponding labor and social security 
obligations.  
d) Document in which the SUPPLIER declares that until the date of the payment status it 
has no pending claims with SIEMENS (partial settlement).  
 
 Once the Payment Status is approved, the SUPPLIER must send the invoice 
through the electronic invoice portal established by the regulatory entities, 
indicating the purchase order and the RDS number (HES) in the established 
fields, according to the technic al document for electronic billing.  
 
            The Client will be empowered to deduct from the payment status, 
administratively and without the need for a judicial or arbitration declaration, 
any amount owed by the SUPPLIER for any concept. In addition, it can withhold 
amounts in case of la wsuits or claims from third parties.  
28. Confiden tiality  
 
28.1 The SUPPLIER declares to know and accept that, due to or in connection with 
services, or supply of products, it will have access, among others, to technical 
and economic information, which constitutes confidential information of 
SIEMENS. Given the foregoing, it undertakes and obliges to maintain said 
information  as confidential , and to use it exclusively when it is strictly necessary 
for the provision of the services / supply of products entrusted.  
28.2 It is stated that these obligations refer to all the information of SIEMENS that the 
SUPPLIER, its personnel or contractors know on the occasion of the provision 
of services / Supply of products reported in the corresponding Purchase Order, 
although s aid information, to your judgment lacks strategic value.  
28.3 The obligation of confidentiality must be imposed by the SUPPLIER on all its 
workers and / or subcontractors, if applicable. The SUPPLIER is obliged to 
respond to breaches of the duty of confidentiality of its workers or contractors 
as if they were it s own.  
28.4 The parties declare that the obligation of confidentiality and reserve stipulated in 
this clause has been an essential and determining condition for SIEMENS to 
enter into the Purchase Order and that it will subsist indefinitely once it has 
ended.  
28.5     If the SUPPLIER is required by any competent authority to reveal all or part of 
the information referred to in this clause, the SUPPLIER must immediately 
inform SIEMENS of such requirement, in order for it to have the opportunity to 
exercise the actions or  rights conferred by law. In any case, the SUPPLIER 
shall refrain from communicating said information to the authority until it has the 
express written approval of SIEMENS.  
 At the end of the Purchase Order, the SUPPLIER must return to SIEMENS all 
documents or material supports containing information that has been provided 
by SIEMENS. Alternatively, SIEMENS may requ est them  to destroy said 
information and to certify the fact of the destruction  in writing . 
29. Arbitra tion 
Any doubt or difficulty that arises between the parties due to the respective 
Purchase Order or its complementary documents, whether it refers to its 
interpretation, compliance, validity, termination or any other cause, will be 
resolved as follows: i) In t hose cases in which the Purchase Orders have a value 
equal to or less than 3,000 UF (three thousand Development Units), it will be 
through Arbitration in accordance with the Regulations of the National Arbitration 
Center; ii) In those cases in which the am ount of the Purchase Order exceeds 
3,000 UF (three thousand development units)  it will be  through arbitration in 
accordance with the Regulation of the Arbitration Center of the Chamber of 
Commerce of Santiago AG, whose provisions are contained in the deed dated 
December 10, 1992, granted in the Santiago Notary Office of Mr. Sergio 
Rodríguez Garcés, which, as they forming an integral part of these clauses, the 
parties declare to know and accept.  
The parties confer an irrevocable special mandate to the Chamber of Commerce 
of Santiago AG. and to the National Arbitration Center, so that, at the written 
request of any of them, they will designate a mixed arbitrator from among the 
members of its arbitration body.  
No appeal will proceed against the resolutions of this mixed arbitrator, for which 
the parties expressly renounce said right . The arbitrator is specially empowered 
to resolve any matter related to his /her jurisdiction.  