 
Sem restrições   
 
 
 
Conditions  of Purchase   
Status : April, 2025  
1.        Order  and Confirmation of Order   
1.1      The Custom er may cancel the order if the S upplier has not conf irmed   
accept ance of the order (conf irmation) in writ ing with in two weeks of   
receipt.  
1.2      Any alterations, ame ndmen ts or add itions to the order  shall only be-  
come a part of the contrac t if the Customer accepts such in writing. In   
particu lar, the Custom er is bou nd by the genera l terms and cond itions  
of the Supplier  only to the extent tha t such  are in accordance  with these   
Cond itions of P urchase or  if the Customer agrees to such in writ ing.  
The accept ance of deliver ies or serv ices as we ll as paymen ts does not   
constit ute such a greemen t.  
1.3      Any prov isions in oth er documents provided by the S upplier (such as   
but not l imited to specif ications, dat a shee ts, techn ical document ation,  
advert ising materia ls, order  confirmation and/or sh ipping documents)   
regardin g legal terms, liability, restriction of use, restriction of applica -  
tion an d/or restr iction of su itability, or any oth er prov ision that changes   
the provisions of these Cond itions of P urchase sha ll not be applicable.  
2. Rights of Use   
2.1      The S upplier hereby grants the Custom er the fo llowing non -exclusive,   
transferab le, wor ldwide and perpetua l rights:   
2.1.1    to use the de liveries and serv ices includ ing re lated documentation, to   
integrate them into ot her products an d to distribute them;   
2.1.2    to install, launch, test and operate software an d its related documenta -  
tion (here inafter co llective ly referred t o as “S oftware”);   
2.1.3    to sub license the rig ht of use under section 2.1. 2 above to aff iliates (as   
defined by § 1 5 of the German Compan ies Act (Aktieng esetz), herein -  
after referred  to as “Affiliates”),  to contracted  third parties, to distributors   
and to end custom ers;  
2.1.4    to license to Af filiates and oth er distributors the right to sublicense the   
right of use und er section 2.1 .2 above to en d customers;   
2.1.5    to use the Software for integrat ion into oth er products and to copy the   
Software, or to allow Affi liates, contracted th ird parties or distr ibutors to   
use and copy the S oftware;   
2.1.6    to distribute, se ll, hire out, lease,  make ready for download or make   
publicly  available  the Software,  e.g. in the context of application  service  
providing or in other cont exts, and to copy the S oftware to the extent   
required, always prov ided that the number  of licenses be ing used at   
any one time does not exceed  the number of licenses purchased;   
2.1.7    to sub license the right of use  under section 2.1. 6 above  to Affiliates,   
contracted th ird parties and d istributors.   
2.2  In add ition to the rights granted  in section 2.1 above, the Custom er,  
Affiliates and distribu tors are authorized  to allow end customers  to  
transfer the respective l icenses.   
2.3      All sublicenses granted by the Customer must conta in appropriat e pro-  
tectio n for the intellectua l property  rights  of the Supplier in the Software.   
All sublicenses  must conta in any  contractua l provisions  used  by the  
Custom er to protect its own intellectua l property righ ts.  
2.4      The S upplier shall inform the Custom er - at the latest at the time the   
order is conf irmed - wheth er the products and serv ices to be de livered   
contain open  source components.   
In the cont ext of th is prov ision “open source comp onents” mea ns any   
software, h ardware or other informat ion that is provided roya lty-free by  
the respective licensor to any user on the basis of a license with the   
right to mod ify and/or to d istribu te (e.g. GNU Genera l Public License   
(GPL), the GNU Lesser GP L (LGPL), or the MIT L icense). S hould the   
products and serv ices de livered by the Supplier conta in open source   
comp onents, the Supplier sha ll comp ly with all applicable ope n source   
license terms and sha ll grant a ll those rights to the Custom er and pro -  
vide al l informat ion wh ich the Customer nee ds in order to comp ly him -  
self with the applicable license terms. In part icular, the S upplier must   
deliver to the Customer  prompt ly after the order is confirmed  the follow-  
ing:  
-    A sched ule of all open source components used, indicating the rel -  
evant license, its vers ion and includ ing a copy of the comp lete text   
of such  license  and includ ing a reference  to copyr ight and/or  author -  
ship. Such sched ule must have an understan dable structure and   
contain a table of contents.   
-    The comp lete source code of the re levant open source software,   
includ ing scripts and informat ion regard ing its gen erating environ -  
ment insofar as the  applicable op en source cond itions requ ire this.  
2.5      The S upplier shall by the time of order conf irmation at the latest inform   
the C ustomer in writ ing wheth er any open source licenses used by the   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplier might be subject to a Copyleft Ef fect which cou ld affect the   
products of t he Customer. In the cont ext of th is prov ision, “Copyleft 
Effect“ means that the prov isions of the ope n source license requ ire that  
certai n of the Supplier’s products, as wel l as any products derived from   
such products, may on ly be redistr ibuted in accordance wi th the terms   
of the open source license, e.g. on ly if the source code is disclosed. In   
case any open source licenses used by the S upplier are subject to a   
“Copy left Effect” as defined above,  then the Custom er is entitled to can-  
cel the order w ithin two weeks of receipt of this informat ion.  
3. Term and P enalty for Bre ach  
3.1      For the  purposes of establishin g the timel iness of delivery, th e relevant   
point in time is the dat e of receipt at the p lace of destinat ion/de livery   
accordi ng to Incoterms ® 2020 designat ed by the Custom er, and for   
deliveries  involving installation, comm issioning or rectification services,  
the relevant po int in t ime sha ll be the date of accept ance by the Cus -  
tomer.  
3.2  If any delay in delivery or performance  or rectif ication is  anticipat ed, the  
Custom er sha ll be notified immed iately and its decis ion sought.   
3.3  If – in the event of de lay – the Supplier cannot prove that it is not re -  
sponsi ble for the delay, the Customer may charge a pena lty in respect   
of each com menced work ing day  of de lay amount ing to 0.3 % (zero   
point three percent) but not exceed ing a tota l of 5 % (five percent) of   
the total value of  the contract.   
In the event  that the appropriate  reservat ion of rights  is not  made  at the  
time of accept ance of delivery,  services or rectification, this pena lty may   
still be claimed if the reservat ion of rights is  made  no later than the date  
of final payment.   
3.4      Additional or other statu tory righ ts are not affected hereby.   
4. Transfer of Risk,  Dispatch and Place of P erformance, Transfer of   
Title   
4.1      For deliver ies involving  installation,  comm issioning or services, the  
transfer of risk occurs on accept ance and for deliver ies not involving  
instal lation or comm issioning, the transfer of risk sha ll be upon rece ipt  
by the Custom er at the nam ed place of destinat ion/de livery accordi ng  
to Incoterms ® 202 0. Unless agreed otherwise, DDP (named place of   
destin ation) Incoterms  ® 2020  shall apply, if (a) the seat of the Supplier  
and the named  place of  destinat ion are within the same  country  or if (b)  
the seat of the Supplier and the name d place of destination are both   
within the European Un ion. If neither (a) nor (b) are fu lfilled, then DAP   
(named  place of destination) Incoterms  ® 2020  shall apply, unless  
agreed otherwise.   
4.2      Unless otherwise  agreed,  the costs  of adequat e packag ing shall be  
borne by  the S upplier. In case  transportat ion costs are borne by  the  
Custom er, not ice of  readiness for d ispatch sha ll be given toget her with  
the informat ion set out in sect ion 4.3 hereunder. On th e Customer’s re -  
quest a Siemens Energy routi ng order too l must be used by the Sup -  
plier. Transport  shall be arranged  by the Supplier  at the lowest  poss ible  
cost, insofar as the  Custom er has not  requested a p articular method  of  
delivery or the conclusion of the contract for carr iage by the Customer.   
Any supp lement ary costs  arising  from non-conformity  with the transport   
requirements  includ ing costs  arising  from the non-applicat ion of the Sie-  
mens Energy routing order too l shall be borne by the S upplier. In case   
DAP/DDP (named p lace of destination) Incoterms ® 2020 is agreed,   
the Custom er may also det ermine the metho d of transportat ion. Any   
supp lementary costs arising from the need to meet the de livery dead -  
line by way of exped ited delivery sha ll be borne by the Supplier.   
4.3      Each delivery sha ll include a pack ing note or delivery not e with detai ls  
of the contents as wel l as the comp lete order number.   
4.4      As far as the Custom er and th e Supplier agree that th e Supplier orders   
the transport of de liveries cont aining dang erous goo ds for account of   
the Custom er, the Supplier is responsi ble to transfer the necessary le-  
gally required dangerous  goods  data to the freight  forwarder  nominated   
by the Custom er when p lacing the transport order. The S upplier is in  
these  cases  also responsib le for pack ing, mark ing, labelling,  etc. in  
comp liance  with the regulation relevant  to the mode(s)  of transport   
used.   
4.5  If the Custom er informs the Supplier that fo llowing the in itial transport   
another transport wi th a different mode of transport is sched uled, the   
Supplier will also follow the relevant  legal requiremen ts concern ing dan-  
gerous goods with regard to  such o n-going transport.   
4.6      Transfer of tit le sha ll be up on delivery or accept ance by the Customer,   
as the case may be.   

 
Sem restrições  5. Payment, Invoices   
5.1      Unless oth erwise agreed, payments shall be due and payabl e no later  
than 30 (th irty) days net. If payment is made w ithin 14 (fourteen) days,   
the Customer is ent itled to a 3 % (three percent) d iscoun t. The period   
for payment  shall commence  as soon  as any delivery  or service is com-  
pleted an d a correct ly issued  invoice is rece ive  
5.2      The order num ber as we ll as the number of each individual item sha ll  
be detai led in invoices.  Insofar  as any such  details are omitted, in-  
voices sha ll not be p ayable. Cop ies of invoices sha ll be marked as du-  
plicates.   
5.3  Insofar as the S upplier is requ ired to prov ide mat erial testing, test rec -  
ords or qua lity contro l documents  or any  other document ation, such   
shall be a part of the requ irements of the completeness of the de livery   
or performance. A d iscoun t shall also be al lowed if the Customer sets   
off or withholds  any payments  to a reasonab le extent  on accoun t of any  
deficiency.   
5.4      Paymen t does  not constitute  an acknow ledgeme nt that the correspond - 
ing delivery or serv ices were prov ided in accordance with the  contract.   
6. Inspection upon r eceipt   
6.1      The Custom er shall immed iately upo n receipt at the named p lace of  
destin ation exam ine whether  a delivery  corresponds  to the quantity and  
type of products  ordered  and wheth er there are  any externa l recogn iza-  
ble transportat ion damage or other obvious def iciencies.   
6.2      Should the Customer  discover any  deficiency in the course of  these   
inspect ions or at any  later stag e, it sha ll inform the Supplier of such   
deficiency.   
6.3      Comp laints may be raised wi thin one month of delivery of a product or   
performance, and insofar as def iciencies are not d iscovered until com-  
missioning, process ing or first use, wi thin one month of detection.   
6.4  In this regard the Custom er sha ll have no oth er duties to the S upplier  
other than the dut ies of inspection and not ification above.   
7.        Warranty   
7.1  If deficiencies  are identified  before  or durin g the transfer  of risk or during   
the warranty  period provided  for in section  7.8 or 7.9,  the Supplier  must   
at its own expense and at the d iscretion of the Customer e ither repa ir  
the deficiency or prov ide re-performance of serv ices or rep lacement of   
deliveries (= rect ification). Th is prov ision also applies to deliver ies sub -  
ject to inspect ion by sample tests. The d iscretio n of the C ustomer sha ll  
be exercised f airly and reasonab ly.  
7.2      Should the S upplier fail to rect ify (i. e. repa ir or rep lacement) any def i-  
ciency wi thin a reasonab le time perio d set by the Customer, the Cus -  
tomer is ent itled t o:  
7.2.1    cancel the contract in who le or in part w ithout being subject to any lia-  
bility for damages; or   
7.2.2    demand a reduction in price; or   
7.2.3    undertake itself any repa ir at the expense of the Supp lier or re -perfor -  
mance of serv ices or repl aceme nt of de liveries or arrang e for such to   
be done; and   
7.2.4    claim damages in lieu of performance.   
For the  purposes of establishing th e timeliness of rectif ication, the rele -  
vant point in time is the dat e of rece ipt at th e place of destinat ion.  
7.3      The rights accordi ng to section 7.2 may be exerc ised w ithout further   
deadline if the Custom er has a strong particular interest in immed iate  
rectification in order  to avoid  any liabi lity of its own for delay  or for other   
reasons  of urgency  and it is not reasonab le for the Customer  to request   
the S upplier to rect ify the def iciency wi thin a reasonab le time perio d.  
The legal provisions on the d ispensab ility of sett ing a dead line rema in  
unaffected hereby.   
7.4      The above -mentione d rights sha ll expire one year from the dat e of no -  
tification of the def iciency but in no instance bef ore the expiry of the   
warranty perio ds set o ut in this section.   
7.5      Additional or other statu tory righ ts are not affected hereby.   
7.6  If the Supp lier provides subsequent performance  or repa irs, the war -  
ranty  periods set out in section  7.8 and 7.9  shall begin to run once   
again.  
7.7      Notw ithstand ing the transfer  of risk regarding  delivery,  the Supplier  
shall bear the costs  and risk related  to the rectification (e. g.  return   
costs, cos ts of transport, costs of de- and re -instal lation).  
7.8      The warranty peri od for def iciencies of mat erial is three years, insofar   
as no statu tory prov isions prov ide longer periods.   
7.9      The warranty period for def iciencies in title is five years, insofar as no   
statu tory prov isions prov ide longer perio ds.  
7.10    For de liveries not involving installation or comm issioning, the warranty   
period beg ins to run wi th rece ipt at the p lace of destination named by   
the Custom er. For deliveries  involving  instal lation,  comm issioning or  
services, the warranty  period begins to run with accept ance by the Cus-  
tomer. Upon de livery to locations where the Customer is operat ing out-  
side its prem ises, the warranty period beg ins wi th the accept ance by   
the end customer, i n no case later than one year after transfer of risk.   
8. Supplie r’s Duty to Verify and to Inform   
8.1      The S upplier is obliged to exam ine componen ts such as, e.g. raw ma -  
terial, provided by the Custom er or provided by the Supplier’s  suppliers,   
manufacturers or oth er third parti es at the t ime of rece ipt of such com -  
ponents as to wheth er these comp onents show any obvio us or h idden   defects. In case any def ects are d iscovered in the course of such in-  
spectio ns, the Supplier  shall immediately inform its supp liers or – in 
the case the comp onents are prov ided by the Customer – inform the 
Customer.  
8.2  It is essent ial that the products  are delivered  free of any third-party   
rights. Thus the S upplier is und er a duty to verify t itle and inform the   
Custom er of any poss ible conf licting industr ial and intellectual  property   
rights. A ny breach of such duty is  subject to the norma l statu tory limita-  
tion perio d.  
9.        Quality Management, Subcontracting to Third Parties   
9.1      The Supplier shall maintain a quality mana gemen t system  (e.g. accord -  
ing to ISO 9001).   
9.2      Subcontract ing to third parties shall not take place without the prior writ-  
ten consent of the Custom er and ent itles the Custom er to cancel the   
contract in who le or in p art and cla im damag es.  
10.      Provided Materi al, Information   
10.1    Material and information prov ided by the Customer rema ins the prop -  
erty of the Customer and are to be stored, labeled as property of the   
Custom er and administered  separate ly at no cost to the Custom er.  
Their use is limited to the orders of the Custom er only. The S upplier  
shall supp ly repl acements i n the event of reduction of value or loss, for   
which the Supp lier is responsib le, even  in the event of s imple negl i-  
gence. This a lso applies to the transfer of al located mat erial.  
10.2    Any process ing or transformat ion of the mat erial and information sha ll  
take p lace for the Custom er. The Customer sha ll immed iately become   
owner of t he new or transformed product. Sh ould this be imposs ible for   
legal reasons, the Customer  and the  Supplier hereby  agree that the   
Custom er shall be the owner of the new product at al l times during the   
process ing or transformat ion. The S upplier shall keep the new product   
safe for the Customer  at no extra  cost and in so doing exerc ise the duty   
of care of  a merchan t.  
11.      Tools, P atterns, Samples,  Confidentiality   
11.1    Any  tools,  patterns,  samp les,  mode ls,  profiles,  drawin gs,  standard  
specif ication shee ts, printing templates and materia ls prov ided by the   
Custom er or made for the Customer, as we ll as any materia ls derived   
there from, shall not be made avai lable to any th ird party nor used for   
any other purpose  than those  contractual ly agreed  except  with the prior   
written  consent  of the Custom er. Such materia ls shall be protected   
against unaut horized access or use. S ubject to any further rights the   
Custom er may demand that such mat erials be returned if the S upplier  
breaches these dut ies.  
11.2    The Supplier shall treat as confidential the know ledge  and findings, doc-  
uments, terms of reference, busin ess processes or other informat ion  
that it rece ives from or about t he Customer i n the context of perform ing  
the de liveries and serv ices, as we ll as the conclusion of the contract   
and any resu lts, with regard to th ird parties - and sha ll keep the same   
confidential beyond  the term of  the contract  – for as long  as and insofar   
as such in formation has not become publicly known by legal means or  
the Customer  has not consented  in writing to its transfer  in the individual   
case.  The Supplier  shall make  confidential informat ion available only to  
those emp loyees who need the informat ion for the fu lfillment of the ir  
duties and shal l ensure th at such employees are also subject to a duty   
to treat such informat ion as conf idential. The Supplier sha ll use th is in-  
format ion exc lusive ly for the purpose of performing the deliver ies and   
services. Insofar  as the Custom er agrees  to any subcontract ing to a   
third party, such th ird party sha ll agree to such terms in writ ing.  
12.      Assignment of Claims   
Any ass ignment of any c laim is only allowed w ith the pr ior written ap -  
prova l of the Customer.   
13.      Right to Terminate and Cancel   
13.1  In additi on to any rights prov ided by law to wi thdraw from or cancel a   
contract, the Customer may cancel the contract in whole or in part in  
case (a) the S upplier is in delay wi th its de livery or serv ice and such   
delay – desp ite a correspond ing reminder by the Custom er - persists  
for more than two weeks after receipt of such rem inder or in case (b)   
that adherence to the contract by the Customer cann ot reasonab ly be   
expected from the Custom er because of a reason attri butable to the   
Supplier and taking into consid eration the c ircumstances of the case   
and both parties` interests. This m ight, in particular, app ly in case of  an  
actual  or poss ible deteriorat ion of th e Supplier’s financia l situat ion thus   
threatening the due fulfil lment of the S upplier’s obligations und er the   
contract.   
13.2    The Customer may a lso terminate the contract in case insolvency pro -  
ceed ings or s imilar proceed ings in  relation to the assets of the Supplier  
are applie d for or com menced.   
13.3  In case of a term ination by the Customer the Custom er may cont inue  
to utilize exist ing faci lities, de liveries or serv ices a lready performed by   
the Supplier in exchan ge for reasonable payment.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sem restrições   
 
14.      Code of Conduct for S iemens Energy Suppliers , Security in the   
Supply Chain   
14.1     The Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal  
system(s). In particular, the Supplier will not engage, actively or passively, 
nor directly or indirectly in any form of bribery, in any violation of basic 
human rights of employees or any child labor and the Supplier shall comply 
with the regulations of the Siemens Energy Code of Conduct and address 
these expectations to its own suppliers along its supply chain.  Moreover, 
the Supplier will take responsibility for the health and  safety of its employees 
and shall fulfill the applicable minimum wage  requirements. By acting in 
accordance with the applicable environmental  laws, the Supplier shall take 
adequate measures to avoid the deployment  of so -called conflict minerals 
and shall create transparency over the origin  of raw materials. The Supplier 
shall provide a protected grievance  mechanism for its own employees to 
report possible violations of this Code of Conduct and will take reasonable 
measures to make its suppliers comply with the principles of this Code of 
Conduct and to verify  this on a risk basis.  Supplier shall be obliged to duly  
document its compliance with the Code of Conduct. Customer and its  
representatives or a third party ap - pointed by the Customer and  reasonably 
acceptable to Supplier shall be entitled (but not obliged) to  conduct – also 
at Supplier’s premises – inspections in order to verify  Supplier’s compliance 
with the contractual obligations, in particular with  the Code of Conduct. Any 
such inspection may only be conducted in  accordance with the applicable 
data protection law and shall neither  unreasonably interfere with Suppliers' 
busi ness activities nor violate any  of Suppliers' confidentiality agreements 
with third parties. Supplier shall  reasonably cooperate in any inspection to 
be conducted. Supplier shall  immediately initiate any remedial ac tions if it 
detects any violation of the  Code of Conduct by itself or its subcontractors 
and shall promptly inform  Customer of any such violation and the remedial 
action if and to the extent  such breach affects the contract.  
 
14.2    The Supplier  shall provide the necessary  organ izational instructions   
and take measures, particu larly with regard to the follow ing secur ity:  
prem ises secur ity, packag ing and transport, business partner, person -  
nel and informat ion - in order to guarantee the secur ity in the supp ly  
chain accordi ng to the requirements  of respective i nternat ionally  recog -  
nized initiatives based  on the WCO  SAFE Framework  of Standards   
(e. g.  AEO, C-TPAT). The Supplier  shall protect  the goods and services  
provided to the Customer or prov ided to third parties designat ed by the   
Custom er against unauth orized  access  and manipulat ion. The S upplier  
shall only deploy rel iable personne l for those goods and serv ices and   
shall obligate any sub -supp liers to t ake equivalent security measures.   
14.3  In add ition to other rights and remed ies the Custom er may have, the   
Custom er may term inate the contract in case of breach of the ob liga-  
tions under section  14 by the Supplier. However,  provided that the Sup-  
plier’s breach of contract is capab le of remedy, the Customer ’s right to   
terminate is subject to the prov iso that s uch breach has not bee n rem-  
edied by the S upplier with in a reasonab le grace p eriod set by the Cus -  
tomer.  
15.      Product Conformity, P roduct Related Environmental Protection   
including Substance De claration, Dangerous Goods, Occupa -  
tional Health and Safety   
15.1    Should the Supplier  deliver products,  to which product -related statutory   
and legal requirements ap ply in view o f their placing on the market a nd  
further market ing in the E uropean Econom ic Area or  to wh ich corre -  
spon ding requ irements app ly regarding oth er coun tries notified by the   
Custom er to the Supplier, then the Supplier must ensure  comp liance  of  
the products  with these  requirements  at the time of transfer  of risk. Fur-  
thermore, th e Supplier must ensure that all documents and informat ion  
which are necessary to provide the proof of conformity of products w ith  
the respective requ irements can be furn ished immed iately to the Cus -  
tomer upon request.   
15.2    Should the Supplier deliver products, substances of wh ich are set out   
in the so-called “L ist of Dec larable Substances” ( www.bomcheck.net/   
supp liers/restricted -and-declarab le-substances -list)  applicable  at  the  
time of the order or wh ich are subject to statutori ly imposed substance   
restrictions and/ or informat ion requ irements (e. g. RE ACH, RoHS), the   
Supplier sha ll declare such substances and prov ide informat ion as re -  
quested  in the web database  BOMcheck  (www.BOMcheck.net )  no later  
than the date of first delivery of products. W ith respect to statutori ly im-  
posed  substance  restrictions  the forego ing shall only apply to laws   
which are applicable at the reg istered seat of the S upplier or the Cus -  
tomer or at the place of  destination name d by the Customer.   
15.3    Should the delivery cont ain goods wh ich – accordi ng to internat ional   
regulations – are classified as dangerous  goods, the Supplier will inform   
the Custom er hereof in a  form agreed upo n between the S upplier and   
the Custom er, but in no case later tha n the dat e of order conf irmation.  
The requ iremen ts concerning dang erous goods in section 4.4 and 4.5   
rema in unaff ected.   
15.4    The Supplier is obliged to comp ly with all legal requirements regard ing  the health and safety  of the personn el employed  by the 
Supplier.  It must   
ensure that the hea lth and safety of its personne l as we ll as 
indirect  
subcontractors em ployed to p erform the deliver ies and 
services is pro-  
tected.   
16.      Cybers ecurity   
16.1    The  Supplier   shall  take  appropriate  organizational  and  
technical measures to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, 
integrity and availability of Supplier Operations as well as products 
and services. These measures shall be consistent with good 
industry pract ice and shall in  clude an appropriate information 
security management system consistent with standards such as 
ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable).  
16.2  “Supplier Operat ions” means a ll assets,  processes  and systems (in -  
cluding informat ion systems), dat a (including Customer dat a), person -  
nel, and s ites, used or processed by the S upplier from t ime to t ime in  
the performance of th is contract.   
16.3    Should products or serv ices cont ain software, f irmware, or ch ipsets:   
16.3.1 the Supplier shall implement  appropriate  standards,  processes  and  
methods to prevent,  identify,  evalu ate and repair any vulnerab ilities,  
malicious code , and secur ity incide nts in products and serv ices wh ich  
shall be consistent w ith good industry pract ice and stan dards such as   
ISO/I EC 27001  or IEC 62443  (to the extent app licable);  
16.3.2 the Supplier shall cont inue to supp ort and provide serv ices to repa ir,  
update, upgrade and maintain products an d services includ ing the pro -  
vision of patches to the  Custom er remedying vu lnerabi lities for the  rea-  
sona ble lifetime of  the products and serv ices;  
16.3.3 the Supplier shall provide to t he Customer a bi ll of mat erials ident ifying  
all third-party software comp onents cont ained in the products. Third -  
party software shall be up -to-date at the t ime of de livery to the Cus -  
tomer;  
16.3.4 the S upplier sha ll grant to the Customer  the right, but the Customer   
shall not be ob liged, to test or have tested products for ma licious code   
and vu lnerab ilities at any t ime, and shall adequate ly supp ort the Cus -  
tomer;  
16.3.5 the Supplier  shall provide the C ustom er a contact for all informat ion se-  
curity re lated issues (avai lable during business ho urs).  
16.4    The S upplier shall prompt ly report to the Custom er all relevant infor-  
mation security inci dents occurred or suspected and vul nerabi lities dis -  
covered  in any Supplier  Operat ions, services and products,  if and to the  
extent the  Customer is or is likely to be materia lly affected.   
16.5    The S upplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its sub -  
contractors and supp liers sha ll, within a reasonab le time, be bound by   
obligations s imilar to the provisions of th is section  16.  
16.6    Upon the Custom er’s request,  the Supplier sha ll provide written ev i-  
dence  of its comp liance  with this section  16 including  generally  ac-  
cepted audit reports (e.g. SSAE -16 SOC 2 Type I I).  
 
17.      Export Control and Foreign Trade Data Regulations  
17.1    The Supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, customs  and 
foreign trade regulations (“Foreign Trade Regulations”). In particular, the 
Supplier represents and warrants that none of its products nor its services 
provided under the contract contain products and/or services restricted for 
import under Foreign Tra de Regulations applicable to the Customer, including 
but not limited to Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 2022/263 or 
765/2006, each as amended and import restrictions enforced by the U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection. The Supplier shall advise  the Customer in 
writing within two weeks of receipt of the order - and in case of any changes 
without undue delay - of any information and data required by the Customer to 
comply with all Foreign Trade Regulations in case of export and import as well 
as re-export, including without limitation:  
- all applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control Classification 
Number according to the U.S. Commerce Control List (ECCN); and  
- the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity 
classification for foreign trade statistics and the HS (Harmonized System) 
coding including the respective tariff basis on which the classification of 
the product has been performed (e.g. EU Combined Nomenclature, 
TARIC, US HTS); and  
- the country of origin (non -preferential origin) as well as the region of origin, if 
applicable for the respective country of origin; proof of origin (e.g. 
Packing -List, Delivery Note, BOL, GAI); and  
- upon request of the Customer: preferential statement including Supplier’s 
declaration of preferential origin (in case of European suppliers) or 
preferential certificates (in case of non -European suppliers);  
and 
-upon request of the Customer: evidence of the country of origin of the iron and 
steel inputs used for the processing of the products.  
 
Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage incurred by the 
Customer due to any breach of the obligations according to this section  
 
 
Sem restrições  17.2 Ban on re -exports to Russia („No -Russia -Clause“)  
The following clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) the Customer supplies any goods 
or technology to the Supplier in the course of the execution of the contract, (ii) such 
supplied goods or technology are or refer to goods listed in the Annexes set out in 
Article 12 g EU Regul ation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 
as amended and (iii) and the supply takes place from the EU to a third country 
except for partner countries according to Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 
and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/200 6 as amended:  
- The Customer hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the Supplier agrees, not to re -export 
and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for use in Russia or 
Belarus any supplied goods as well as technology (and related documentation, 
regardless of the mode of provision) provided by the Customer to the Supplier 
under the contract.  
- The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the contract by written notice in the event of 
a breach by the Supplier of the obligation pursuant to this section 17.2. Upon 
termination, the Supplier shall pay to the Customer all costs and damages incurred 
by the Customer from such termination. In any case, the Supplier shall pay the 
Customer liquidated damages in the amount of 20 % of the contract price.  
- Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove in this section 17.2, the Supplier shall 
indemnify and hold harmless the Customer in full from and against any claim, 
proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public authorities or 
other third parties against the Customer arising out of or relating to a breach by the 
Supplier of the obligations under this section 17.2 and the Supplier shall 
compensate the Customer for all losses and expenses incurred resulting thereof.  
18.      Rese rvation Clause   
The Customer shall not be obligated to fulfill the contract if such fulfillment is  
prevented by any impediments arising out of national or inte rnational foreign trade  
or customs requirements or any embargoes or other sanctions.  
19.      Mention as Reference Customer   
Only upo n the Customer’s prior wr itten approval, the S upplier shall be   
allowed  to mention the Customer  as a reference  customer  and/or make  reference  to 
products  or services which the Supplier has develope d during the p erformance of an 
order for the Customer.   
20.      Supplementar y Provisions   
20.1  Insofar as the prov isions of these Cond itions of P urchase do not regu late 
certain m atters, rel evant statutory prov isions sha ll apply.  
20.2  The S upplier shall b e liable for any expenses an d/or dam ages incurred  by 
the Customer due to  any breach of these cond itions, in p articular of  
20.3    sections 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16 and 17, un less the S upplier is not re -  
sponsi ble for such breach.   
21.      Place of Jurisdiction and Applicable Law   
21.1 Venezuelan  law shall apply, excluding the provisions of the United Nat ions 
Law on the S ale of Goods of 11 th of April 19 80.  
21.2 The relevant court of jurisdictio n shall be Mun ich.   
22. Suspension  
Customer may, by notice to Supplier, at any time request the suspension of the supply of 
goods or performance of the Services. The resulting costs incurred and credited by the Supplier in connection with the suspension shall be borne by the Customer, 
provided that such costs are previously agreed and accepted by the 
Customer. If the suspension exceeds sixty (60) days in total, Customer may 
terminate the Agreement without any lia bility.  
 
23. Fortuitous event or Force Majeure.  
Neither Party shall be responsible to the other for the non -performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and/or Purchase Order if such non -
performance is the result of a fortuitous event or force majeure.  
 
Fortuitous Event or Force Majeure means those acts of nature, of man or of 
authority which are beyond the control of its will, which could not have been 
foreseen or even anticipated, which could not have been avoided or overcome, 
and these shall be general , which means, that their performance is impossible 
for any person to carry out, including, without limitation, epidemics, pandemics 
(unless Supplier supplies products or services for an "essential activity" and/or 
its equivalent in Supplier's home country ) of Customer according to an 
administrative resolution, decree and other mandatory provision issued by local 
or federal authorities), fires, earthquakes, floods or any other natural 
catastrophe, acts of vandalism, expropriation or other similar causes bey ond 
the control of the Party in default and not caused by its negligence.   
 
The Party affected by an Act of God or Force Majeure shall notify the other Party 
of such event, in writing, within five calendar days after the date of its 
occurrence, together with such notification shall include documents justifying 
such circumstance. S uch notice shall contain a detailed description of the 
supplies or services that have been affected or that may be affected, as well as 
the actions that the Supplier will take to mitigate the effects of the Force 
Majeure.  
 
If the Supplier certifies reliably the aforementioned, the dates of rendering of 
services or delivery of supplies shall be extended for the same number of days 
equivalent to the duration of the suspension due to a Force Majeure event, prior 
formalization o f the foregoing by the Parties or its equivalent according to the 
circumstances of the case.  
 
Customer may terminate the Contract and/or Purchase Order without any 
liability on its part, except for payment for supplies or services delivered and 
accepted by Customer, if, in its reasonable opinion, it is not economically 
reasonable to continue or if the Force Majeure exceeds one hundred twenty 
(120) days in the aggregate.  
 
 
24. Assignment.  
The customer may transfer, assign or novate the Purchase Order or any part 
thereof to an Affiliate. Customer shall also have the right to assign all or part of 
the Purchase Order to a third party.  
In the event of a sale or other transfer of the Customer's business or a part of 
the Customer's business to a third party, this will be done with prior written 
notice to the Supplier.  
 