Page 1 of 5
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase Siemens Energy Kuwait for Power Services Company K.S.C. (Closed), Kuwait
Status: September 24, 2024
Conditions of Purchase
Status: September 24, 2024
The following terms and conditions of purchase shall apply to any purchase of goods and services by Siemens Energy Kuwait for Power Services Company K.S.C. (Closed),
Kuwait (hereinafter called the " Customer "). Supplier shall be deemed to have full knowledge of the terms and conditions herein and such terms and conditions shall be
binding if either the goods and services referred to herein are delivered to Customer, or if Supplier does not within five days from the date hereof deliver to Customer written
objection to said terms and conditions or any part thereof.
1.  Order and Confirmation of Order
1.1 The Customer may cancel the order if the Supplier has not confirmed
acceptance of the order (confirmation) in writing within two weeks of
receipt.
1.2 Any alterations, amendments or additions to the order shall only
become a part of the contract if the Customer accepts such in writing.
In particular, the Customer is bound by the general terms and
conditions of the Supplier only to the extent that such are in
accordance with these Conditions of Purchase or if the Customer
agrees to such in writing.  The acceptance of deliveries or services
as well as payments does not constitute such agreement.
1.3  Any provisions in other documents provided by the Supplier (such as
but not limited to specifications, data sheets, technical
documentation,advertising materials, order confirmation and/or
shipping documents) regarding legal terms, liability, restriction of
use, restriction of application and/or restriction of suitability, or any
other provision that changes the provisions of these Conditions of
Purchase shall not be applicable.
2. Rights of Use
2.1  The Supplier hereby grants the Customer the following non-exclusive,
transferable, worldwide and perpetual rights:
2.1.1 to use the deliveries and services including related documentation,
to integrate them into other products and to distribute them;
2.1.2 to install, launch, test and operate software and its related
documentation (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Software”);
2.1.3 to sublicense the right of use under section 2.1.2 above to affiliates,
herein after referred to as “Affiliates”, to contracted third parties, to
distributors and to end customers;
2.1.4 to license to Affiliates and other distributors the right to sublicense
the right of use under section 2.1.2 above to end customers;
2.1.5 to use the Software for integration into other products and to copy the
Software, or to allow Affiliates, contracted third parties or distributors
to use and copy the Software;
2.1.6 to distribute, sell, hire out, lease, make ready for download or make
publicly available the Software, e.g. in the context of application
service providing or in other contexts, and to copy the Software to
the extent required, always provided that the number of licenses
being used at any one time does not exceed the number of licenses
purchased;
2.1.7 to sublicense the right of use under section 2.1.6 above to Affiliates,
contracted third parties and distributors.
2.2     In addition to the rights granted in section 2.1 above, the Customer,
Affiliates and distributors are authorized to allow end customers to
transfer the respective licenses.
2.3     All sublicenses granted by the Customer must contain appropriate
protection for the intellectual property rights of the Supplier in the
Software. All sublicenses must contain any contractual provisions
used by the Customer to protect its own intellectual property rights.
2.4    The Supplier shall inform the Customer - at the latest at the time the
order is confirmed - whether the products and services to be
delivered contain open source components.
In the context of this provision “open source components” means any
software, hardware or other information that is provided royalty-free
by the respective licensor to any user on the basis of a license with
the right to modify and/or to distribute (e.g. GNU General Public
License (GPL), the GNU Lesser GPL (LGPL), or the MIT License).
Should the products and services delivered by the Supplier contain
open source components, the Supplier shall comply with all
applicable open source license terms and shall grant all those rights
to the Customer and provide all information which the Customer
needs in order to comply himself with the applicable license terms.
In particular, the Supplier must deliver to the Customer promptly after
the order is confirmed the following:
- A schedule of all open source components used, indicating the
relevant license, its version and including a copy of the completetext of such license and including a reference to copyright and/or
authorship. Such schedule must have an understandable
structure and contain a table of contents.
- The complete source code of the relevant open source software,
including scripts and information regarding its generating
environment insofar as the applicable open source conditions
require this.
2.5 The Supplier shall by the time of order confirmation at the latest
inform the Customer in writing whether any open source licenses
used by the Supplier might be subject to a Copyleft Effect which
could affect the products of the Customer. In the context of this
provision, “Copyleft Effect“ means that the provisions of the open
source license require that certain of the Supplier’s products, as well
as any products derived from such products, may only be
redistributed in accordance with the terms of the open source
license, e.g. only if the source code is disclosed. In case any open
source licenses used by the Supplier are subject to a “Copyleft
Effect” as defined above, then the Customer is entitled to cancel the
order within two weeks of receipt of this information.
3. Term and Penalty for Breach
3.1 For the purposes of establishing the timeliness of delivery, the
relevant point in time is the date of receipt at the place of
destination/delivery according to Incoterms ® 2020 designated by
the Customer, and for deliveries involving installation, commissioning
or rectification services, the relevant point in time shall be the date of
acceptance by the Customer.
3.2 If any delay in delivery or performance or rectification is anticipated,
the Customer shall be notified immediately and its decision sought.
3.3 If – in the event of delay – the Supplier cannot prove that it is not
responsible for the delay, the Customer may charge a penalty in
respect of each commenced working day of delay amounting to 0.3
% (zero point three percent) but not exceeding a total of 5 % (five
percent) of the total value of the contract.
In the event that the appropriate reservation of rights is not made at
the time of acceptance of delivery, services or rectification, this
penalty may still be claimed if the reservation of rights is made no
later than the date of final payment.
3.4    Additional or other statutory rights are not affected hereby.
4. Transfer of Risk, Dispatch and Place of Performance, Transfer
of Title
4.1   For deliveries involving installation, commissioning or services, the
transfer of risk occurs on acceptance and for deliveries not involving
installation or commissioning, the transfer of risk shall be upon
receipt by the Customer at the named place of destination/delivery
according to Incoterms ® 2020. Unless agreed otherwise, DDP
(named place of destination) Incoterms ® 2020 shall apply, if (a) the
seat of the Supplier and the named place of destination are within
the same country or if (b) the seat of the Supplier and the named
place of destination are both within the European Union. If neither (a)
nor (b) are fulfilled, then DAP (named place of destination) Incoterms
® 2020 shall apply, unless agreed otherwise.
4.2    Unless otherwise agreed, the costs of adequate packaging shall be
borne by the Supplier. In case transportation costs are borne by the
Customer, notice of readiness for dispatch shall be given together
with the information set out in section 4.3 hereunder. On the
Customer’s request a Siemens Energy routing order tool must be
used by the Supplier. Transport shall be arranged by the Supplier at
the lowest possible cost, insofar as the Customer has not requested
a particular method of delivery or the conclusion of the contract for
carriage by the Customer.
Any supplementary costs arising from non-conformity with the
transport requirements including costs arising from the non-
application of the Siemens Energy routing order tool shall be borne
by the Supplier. In case DAP/DDP (named place of destination)
Incoterms ® 2020 is agreed, the Customer may also determine the
method of transportation. Any supplementary costs arising from the
Page 2 of 5
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase Siemens Energy Kuwait for Power Services Company K.S.C. (Closed), Kuwait
Status: September 24, 2024
need to meet the delivery deadline by way of expedited delivery shall
be borne by the Supplier.
4.3    Each delivery shall include a packing note or delivery note with
details of the contents as well as the complete order number.
4.4    As far as the Customer and the Supplier agree that the Supplier
orders the transport of deliveries containing dangerous goods for
account of the Customer, the Supplier is responsible to transfer the
necessary legally required dangerous goods data to the freight
forwarder nominated by the Customer when placing the transport
order. The Supplier is in these cases also responsible for packing,
marking, labelling, etc. in compliance with the regulation relevant to
the mode(s) of transport used.
4.5     If the Customer informs the Supplier that following the initial transport
another transport with a different mode of transport is scheduled, the
Supplier will also follow the relevant legal requirements concerning
dangerous goods with regard to such on-going transport.
4.6    Transfer of title shall be upon delivery or acceptance by the
Customer, as the case may be.
5. Payment, Invoices
5.1 Payments shall be due and payable not earlier than 120 (one
hundred and twenty days) days net.
Where early payment discounts are applicable, 0.5% payment
discount must  be  realized for each 15 days decrease in payment
terms.  The period for payment shall commence as soon as any
delivery or service is completed and a correctly issued invoice is
received.
5.2  The order number as well as the number of each individual item shall
be detailed in invoices. Insofar as any such details are omitted,
invoices shall not be payable. Copies of invoices shall be marked as
duplicates.
5.3   Insofar as the Supplier is required to provide material testing, test
records or quality control documents or any other documentation,
such shall be a part of the requirements of the completeness of the
delivery or performance. A discount shall also be allowed if the
Customer sets off or withholds any payments to a reasonable extent
on account of any deficiency.
5.4 Payment does not constitute an acknowledgement that the
corresponding delivery or services were provided in accordance with
the contract.
6. Inspection upon receipt
6.1  The Customer shall immediately upon receipt at the named place of
destination examine whether a delivery corresponds to the quantity
and type of products ordered and whether there are any external
recognizable transportation damage or other obvious deficiencies.
6.2  Should the Customer discover any deficiency in the course of these
inspections or at any later stage, it shall inform the Supplier of such
deficiency.
6.3  Complaints may be raised within one month of delivery of a product
or performance, and insofar as deficiencies are not discovered until
commissioning, processing or first use, within one month of
detection.
6.4    In this regard the Customer shall have no other duties to the Supplier
other than the duties of inspection and notification above.
6.5  All products that fall under the KW ROHS regulation shall have a
valid ROHS certificate issued by the ESMA. If no such valid
certificate has been issued, the products will be rejected and all
associated costs, expenses, consequential damages and
consequences of delay arising due to the rejected products will be
borne by the vendor / supplier. Customer exclude any and all liability
and consequential damages towards the vendor /supplier for the
products not complying with the KW ROHS regulations.
7. Warranty
7.1    If deficiencies are identified before or during the transfer of risk or
during the warranty period provided for in section 7.8 or 7.9, the
Supplier must at its own expense and at the discretion of the
Customer either repair the deficiency or provide re-performance of
services or replacement of deliveries (= rectification). This provision
also applies to deliveries subject to inspection by sample tests. The
discretion of the Customer shall be exercised fairly and reasonably.
7.2    Should the Supplier fail to rectify (i. e. repair or replacement) any
deficiency within a reasonable time period set by the Customer, the
Customer is entitled to:
7.2.1 Terminate the contract in whole or in part without being subject toany liability for damages; or
7.2.2 demand a reduction in price; or
7.2.3 undertake itself any repair at the expense of the Supplier or re-
performance of services or replacement of deliveries or arrange for
such to be done; and
7.2.4 claim damages in lieu of performance.
For the purposes of establishing the timeliness of rectification, the
relevant point in time is the date of receipt at the place of destination.
7.3   The rights according to section 7.2 may be exercised without further
deadline if the Customer has a strong particular interest in immediate
rectification in order to avoid any liability of its own for delay or for
other reasons of urgency and it is not reasonable for the Customer
to request the Supplier to rectify the deficiency within a reasonable
time period.
The legal provisions on the dispensability of setting a deadline
remain unaffected hereby.
7.4    The above-mentioned rights shall expire one year from the date of
notification of the deficiency but in no instance before the expiry of
the warranty periods set out in this section.
7.5    Additional or other statutory rights are not affected hereby.
7.6   If the Supplier provides subsequent performance or repairs, the
warranty periods set out in section 7.8 and 7.9 shall begin to run once
again.
7.7     Notwithstanding the transfer of risk regarding delivery, the Supplier
shall bear the costs and risk related to the rectification (e. g. return
costs, costs of transport, costs of de- and re-installation).
7.8  The warranty period for deficiencies of material is three years, insofar
as no statutory provisions provide longer periods.
7.9  The warranty period for deficiencies in title is five years, insofar as
no statutory provisions provide longer periods.
7.10  For deliveries not involving installation or commissioning, the
warranty period begins to run with receipt at the place of destination
named by the Customer. For deliveries involving installation,
commissioning or services, the warranty period begins to run with
acceptance by the Customer. Upon delivery to locations where the
Customer is operating out side its premises, the warranty period
begins with the acceptance by the end customer, in no case later
than one year after transfer of risk.
8. Supplier’s Duty to Verify and to Inform
8.1  The Supplier is obliged to examine components such as, e.g. raw
material, provided by the Customer or provided by the Supplier’s
suppliers, manufacturers or other third parties at the time of receipt
of such components as to whether these components show any
obvious or hidden defects. In case any defects are discovered in the
course of such inspections, the Supplier shall immediately inform its
suppliers or – in the case the components are provided by the
Customer – inform the Customer.
8.2 It is essential that the products are delivered free of any third-party
rights. Thus the Supplier is under a duty to verify title and inform the
Customer of any possible conflicting industrial and intellectual
property rights. Any breach of such duty is subject to the normal
statutory limitation period.
9. Quality Management, Subcontracting to Third Parties
9.1  The Supplier shall maintain a quality management system (e.g.
according to DIN EN ISO 9001).
9.2  Subcontracting to third parties shall not take place without the prior
written consent of the Customer and entitles the Customer to cancel
the contract in whole or in part and claim damages.
10. Provided Material, Information
10.1  Material and information provided by the Customer remains the
property of the Customer and are to be stored, labeled as property
of the Customer and administered separately at no cost to the
Customer.
Their use is limited to the orders of the Customer only. The Supplier
shall supply replacements in the event of reduction of value or loss,
for which the Supplier is responsible, even in the event of simple
negligence. This also applies to the transfer of allocated material.
10.2  Any processing or transformation of the material and information
shall take place for the Customer. The Customer shall immediately
become owner of the new or transformed product. Should this be
impossible for legal reasons, the Customer and the Supplier hereby
agree that the Customer shall be the owner of the new product at all
times during the processing or transformation. The Supplier shall
Page 3 of 5
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase Siemens Energy Kuwait for Power Services Company K.S.C. (Closed), Kuwait
Status: September 24, 2024
keep the new product safe for the Customer at no extra cost and in
so doing exercise the duty of care of a merchant.
11. Tools, Patterns, Samples, Confidentiality
11.1 Any tools, patterns, samples, models, profiles, drawings, standard
specification sheets, printing templates and materials provided by the
Customer or made for the Customer, as well as any materials derived
there from, shall not be made available to any third party nor used
for any other purpose than those contractually agreed except with
the prior written consent of the Customer. Such materials shall be
protected against unauthorized access or use. Subject to any further
rights the Customer may demand that such materials be returned if
the Supplier breaches these duties.
11.2 The Supplier shall treat as confidential the knowledge and findings,
documents, terms of reference, business processes or other
information that it receives from or about the Customer in the context
of performing the deliveries and services, as well as the conclusion
of the contract and any results, with regard to third parties - and shall
keep the same confidential beyond the term of the contract – for as
long as and insofar as such information has not become publicly
known by legal means or the Customer has not consented in writing
to its transfer in the individual case. The Supplier shall make
confidential information available only to those employees who need
the information for the fulfillment of their duties and shall ensure that
such employees are also subject to a duty to treat such information
as confidential. The Supplier shall use this information exclusively for
the purpose of performing the deliveries and services. Insofar as the
Customer agrees to any subcontracting to a third party, such third
party shall agree to such terms in writing.
12. Assignment of Claims
Any assignment of any claim is only allowed with the prior written
approval of the Customer.
13. Right to Terminate and Cancel
13.1  In addition to any rights provided by law to withdraw from or cancel
a contract, the Customer may terminate the contract in whole or in
part in case (a) the Supplier is in delay with its delivery or service and
such delay – despite a corresponding reminder by the Customer –
persists for more than two weeks after receipt of such reminder or in
case (b) that adherence to the contract by the Customer cannot
reasonably be expected from the Customer because of a reason
attributable to the Supplier and taking into consideration the
circumstances of the case and both parties’ interests. This might, in
particular, apply in case of an actual or possible deterioration of the
Supplier’s financial situation thus threatening the due fulfillment of
the Supplier’s obligations under the contract.
13.2  The Customer may also terminate the contract in case insolvency
proceedings or similar proceedings in relation to the assets of the
Supplier are applied for or commenced.
13.3  In case of a termination by the Customer the Customer may continue
to utilize existing facilities, deliveries or services already performed
by the Supplier in exchange for reasonable payment.
13.4  Termination by the Customer shall become effective automatically
without the necessity of a court ruling on the issue and has immediate
effect upon notification to the Supplier.
14. Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy Suppliers, Security in the
Supply Chain
14.1 The Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal
system(s). In particular, the Supplier will not engage, actively or
passively, nor directly or indirectly in any form of bribery, in any
violation of basic human rights of employees or any child labor and
the Supplier shall comply with the regulations of the Siemens Energy
Code of Conduct  and address these   expectations to its own
suppliers along its supply chain. Moreover, the Supplier will take
responsibility for the health and safety of its employees and shall
fulfill the applicable minimum wage requirements. By acting in
accordance with the applicable environmental laws, the Supplier
shall take adequate measures to avoid the deployment of so-called
conflict minerals and shall create transparency over the origin of raw
materials. The Supplier shall provide a protected grievance
mechanism for its own employees to report possible violations of this
Code of Conduct and will take reasonable measures to make its
suppliers comply with the principles of this Code of Conduct and toverify this on a risk basis. Supplier shall be obliged to duly document
its compliance with the Code of Conduct. Customer and its
representatives or a third party appointed by the Customer and
reasonably acceptable to Supplier shall be entitled (but not obliged)
to conduct – also at Supplier’s premises – inspections in order to
verify Supplier’s compliance with the contractual obligations, in
particular with the Code of Conduct. Any such inspection may only
be conducted in accordance with the applicable data protection law
and shall neither unreasonably interfere with Suppliers' business
activities nor violate any of Suppliers' confidentiality agreements with
third parties. Supplier shall reasonably cooperate in any inspection
to be conducted. Supplier shall immediately initiate any remedial
actions if it detects any violation of the Code of Conduct by itself or
its subcontractors and shall promptly inform Customer of any such
violation and the remedial action if and to the extent such breach
affects the contract.
14.2 The Supplier shall provide the necessary organizational instructions
and take measures, particularly with regard to the following security:
premises security, packaging and transport, business partner,
personnel and information - in order to guarantee the security in the
supply chain according to the requirements of respective
internationally recognized initiatives based on the WCO SAFE
Framework of Standards (e. g. AEO, C-TPAT). The Supplier shall
protect the goods and services provided to the Customer or provided
to third parties designated by the Customer against unauthorized
access and manipulation. The Supplier shall only deploy reliable
personnel for those goods and services and shall obligate any sub-
suppliers to take equivalent security measures.
14.3 In addition to other rights and remedies the Customer may have, the
Customer may terminate the contract in case of breach of the
obligations under section 14 by the Supplier. However, provided that
the Supplier’s breach of contract is capable of remedy, the
Customer’s right to terminate is subject to the proviso that such
breach has not been remedied by the Supplier within a reasonable
grace period set by the Customer.
15. Product Conformity, Product Related Environmental Protection
including Substance Declaration, Dangerous Goods,
Occupational Health and Safety
15.1  Should the Supplier deliver products, to which product-related
statutory and legal requirements apply in view of their placing on the
market and further marketing in the European Economic Area or to
which corresponding requirements apply regarding other countries
notified by the Customer to the Supplier, then the Supplier must
ensure compliance of the products with these requirements at the
time of transfer of risk. Furthermore, the Supplier must ensure that
all documents and information which are necessary to provide the
proof of conformity of products with the respective requirements can
be furnished immediately to the Customer upon request.
15.2  Should the Supplier deliver products, substances of which are set out
in the so-called “List of Declarable Substances” (www.bomcheck.net/
suppliers/restricted-and-declarable-substances-list) applicable at the
time of the order or which are subject to statutorily imposed
substance restrictions and/or information requirements (e. g.
REACH, RoHS), the Supplier shall declare such substances and
provide information as requested in the web database BOMcheck
(www.BOMcheck.net)  no later than the date of first delivery of
products. With respect to statutorily imposed substance restrictions
the foregoing shall only apply to laws which are applicable at the
registered seat of the Supplier or the Customer or at the place of
destination named by the Customer.
15.3 Should the delivery contain goods which – according to international
regulations – are classified as dangerous goods, the Supplier will
inform the Customer hereof in a form agreed upon between the
Supplier and the Customer, but in no case later than the date of order
confirmation. The requirements concerning dangerous goods in
section 4.4 and 4.5 remain unaffected.
15.4 The Supplier is obliged to comply with all legal requirements regarding
the health and safety of the personnel employed by the Supplier. It
must ensure that the health and safety of its personnel as well as
indirect subcontractors employed to perform the deliveries and
services is protected.
15.5  The Supplier shall provide all necessary data and information in
accordance with the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism
(CBAM) statutory regulations in a timely manner upon request of
Customer in order to meet the Customer´s external obligations.
CBAM latest developments as well as guidance can be accessed on
Page 4 of 5
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase Siemens Energy Kuwait for Power Services Company K.S.C. (Closed), Kuwait
Status: September 24, 2024
the official Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism Website; currently
available under the following link: https://taxation-
customs.ec.europa.eu/carbon-border-adjustment-mechanism_en.
16. Cybersecurity
16.1  The Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and technical
measures to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and
availability of Supplier Operations as well as products and services.
These measures shall be consistent with good industry practice and
shall include an appropriate information security management
system consistent with standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC
62443 (to the extent applicable).
16.2 “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes and systems
(including information systems), data (including Customer data),
personnel, and sites, used or processed by the Supplier from time to
time in the performance of this contract.
16.3  Should products or services contain software, firmware, or chipsets:
16.3.1 the Supplier shall implement appropriate standards, processes and
methods to prevent, identify, evaluate and repair any vulnerabilities,
malicious code, and security incidents in products and services
which shall be consistent with good industry practice and standards
such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable);
16.3.2 the Supplier shall continue to support and provide services to repair,
update, upgrade and maintain products and services including the
provision of patches to the Customer remedying vulnerabilities for
the reasonable lifetime of the products and services;
16.3.3 the Supplier shall provide to the Customer a bill of materials
identifying all third-party software components contained in the
products. Thirdparty software shall be up-to-date at the time of
delivery to the Customer;
16.3.4 the Supplier shall grant to the Customer the right, but the Customer
shall not be obliged, to test or have tested products for malicious
code and vulnerabilities at any time, and shall adequately support
the Customer;
16.3.5 the Supplier shall provide the Customer a contact for all information
security related issues (available during business hours).
16.4 The Supplier shall promptly report to the Customer all relevant
information security incidents occurred or suspected and
vulnerabilities discovered in any Supplier Operations, services and
products, if and to the extent the Customer is or is likely to be
materially affected.
16.5 The Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its
subcontractors and suppliers shall, within a reasonable time, be
bound by obligations similar to the provisions of this section 16.
16.6  Upon the Customer’s request, the Supplier shall provide written
evidence of its compliance with this section 16 including generally
accepted audit reports (e.g. SSAE-16 SOC 2 Type II).
17. Export Control and Foreign Trade Data Regulations
17.1 The Supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, customs
and foreign trade regulations (“Foreign Trade Regulations”). In
particular, the Supplier represents and warrants that none of its
products nor its services provided under the contract contain
products and/or services restricted for import under the Foreign
Trade Regulations applicable to the Customer, including but not
limited to Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 2022/263
or 765/2006, each as amended, and import restrictions enforced by
the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The Supplier shall advise
the Customer in writing within two weeks of receipt of the order and
in case of any changes without undue delay of any information and
data required by the Customer to comply with all Foreign Trade
Regulations in case of export and import as well as reexport,
including without limitation:
- all applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control
Classification Number according to the U.S. Commerce Control
List (ECCN); and
- the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity
classification for foreign trade statistics and the HS (Harmonized
System) coding; and
- the country of origin (non-preferential origin); and
- upon request of the Customer the Supplier’s declaration of
preferential origin (in case of European suppliers) or preferential
certificates (in case of non-European suppliers), and
- upon request of the Customer: evidence of the country of origin of
the iron and steel inputs used for the processing of the products.
17.2  The Supplier shall be liable  for  any  expenses  and/or  damagesincurred by the Customer due to any breach of the obligations
according  to  section  17.1,  unless  the  Supplier  is  not  responsible
for  such breach.
17.3 Ban on re-exports to Russia (“No-Russia-Clause”) The following
clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) Siemens Energy supplies
any goods or technology to the Supplier in the course of the
execution of the contract, (ii) such supplied goods or technology
are or refer to goods listed in the Annexes set out in Article 12 g
EU Regulation No. 833/2014 as amended and (iii) and the supply
takes place from the EU to a third country except for partner
countries according to Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 as
amended: - The Customer hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the
Supplier agrees, not to re-export and/or forward, directly or
indirectly, to Russia or for use in Russia any supplied goods as well
as technology (and related documentation, regardless of the mode
of provision) provided by the Customer to the Supplier under the
contract. - The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the contract
by written notice in the event of a breach by the Supplier of the
obligation pursuant to this section 17.2. Upon termination, the
Supplier shall pay to the Customer all costs and damages incurred
by the Customer from such termination. In any case, the Supplier
shall pay the Customer liquidated damages in the amount of 20 %
of the contract price. - Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove
in this section 17.2, the Supplier shall indemnify and hold harmless
the Customer in full from and against any claim, proceeding,
action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public authorities
or other third parties against the Customer arising out of or relating
to a breach by the Supplier of the obligations under this section
17.2 and the Supplier shall compensate the Customer for all losses
and expenses incurred resulting thereof.
18.  Reservation Clause
The Customer shall not be obligated to fulfill the contract if such
fulfillment is prevented by any impediments arising out of national or
international foreign trade or customs requirements or any
embargoes or other sanctions.
19. Mention as Reference Customer
Only upon the Customer’s prior written approval, the Supplier shall
be allowed to mention the Customer as a reference customer and/or
make reference to products or services which the Supplier has
developed during the performance of an order for the Customer.
20. Supplementary Provisions
20.1  Insofar as the provisions of these Conditions of Purchase do not
regulate certain matters, relevant statutory provisions shall apply.
20.2  The Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damages
incurred by the Customer due to any breach of these conditions, in
particular of sections 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16 and 17, unless the
Supplier is not responsible for such breach.
21. In-Country Value (ICV) Certification
21.1 The Supplier is expected to provide the Customer their ICV
contributions. It is understood that a low ICV contribution or no
contribution shall be considered a disadvantage, while treatment of
the Suppliers higher ICV contributions during the evaluation process
is at the sole discretion of the Customer.
21.2 The Supplier shall take every effort to keep the Customer updated
with changes to their ICV Contributions.
21.3 The ICV contributions of the Supplier is an integral element of the
Customer’s ongoing evaluation process affecting selection of the
Supplier for all business opportunities.
22. Place of Jurisdiction, Arbitration and Applicable Law
22.1  This Agreement shall be governed by the substantive law of Kuwait
without regard to that jurisdiction’s conflicts of law provisions. The
application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods of April 11, 1980 shall be excluded.
22.2 If a dispute arises in connection with this Agreement, a related
agreement or any Purchase Order, the responsible representatives
of the parties to the dispute shall attempt, in fair dealing and good
faith, to settle such dispute. Each party shall be entitled to terminate
these negotiations by written notification to the other party at any
time.
Page 5 of 5
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase Siemens Energy Kuwait for Power Services Company K.S.C. (Closed), Kuwait
Status: September 24, 2024
22.3 Any dispute, difference, controversy, or claim arising out of or in
connection with this contract, including (but not limited to) any
question regarding its existence, validity, interpretation,
performance, discharge and applicable remedies, shall be subject to
the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of Kuwait.
23. Severability
Any individual provision of this contract, which is or becomes invalid,
illegal or unenforceable under any law of any jurisdiction which
affects the performance of the contract or any omission to provide for
any subject matter shall not affect the validity of the remaining
provisions of this contract. In such cases, any invalid, illegal or
unenforceable provision(s) shall be severed from the remainder of
the contract and the parties shall seek effective solutions as closely
as possible approximating (in economic effect) to the invalid, illegal
or unenforceable provisions.
24. Special Conditions
24.1 Important Note
Customer does not purchase any items or products which originate in
or are located in Russia or Belarus or have been exported from Russia
or Belarus to any other country or which have been manufactured or
processed in third country using iron and steel products, inputs or raw
materials from Russia or Belarus. Each Supplier must contact
Customer prior to order confirmation if Supplier intends to offer items
or products with any such nexus to Russia or Belarus.
24.2 Shipping Documents
For all POs which will require goods / materials / equipment's import
to Kuwait, Original documents (Commercial invoice, packing list and
certificate of origin duly stamped & blue ink signed by shipper and
attested by Chamber of Commerce of the Country of Origin) are
mandatory for custom clearance Air and Sea ports in Kuwait,
otherwise penalty will be levied by the local authority which will be
borne by the Supplier on back-to-back basis.
Please share the draft documents with Customer in advance to ensure
that the shipping documents meets latest country regulations. Any
delays, penalties, demurrages based on non-compliant to these
conditions will be borne by the supplier.
24.3 Withholding Tax Applicability
As per the Executive Regulations to the Income Tax Law (Law no. 2
of 2008) Kuwait, Siemens Electrical and Electronics Services K.S.C.C,
will retain 5% (or such percentage as amended by law from time to
time) from gross payments for services performed, consumed, used
or exploited in the territory of Kuwait by foreign/non-resident
companies without Permanent Establishments (PE) or Tax Residency
in Kuwait. Upon submission of Tax Clearance Certificate from Kuwait
Tax Authority, the retention will be released.
24.4 Invoice Submission Process
- All invoices to submitted to supplierme.in@siemens.com for
payment processes.
- Only pdf file format is accepted
- One Invoice in a PDF is accepted, avoid scanning multiple invoices
in one PDF file
- Do not send invoice copies in Zip file
- E-mail size should not exceed 10 MB
- Keep lesser/most relevant pages in the PDF & recommend to limit
the number of pages per invoice to maximum 30
- Avoid attaching non-PDF files, e-mails, text file, word or excel file
- Ensure that the invoices are VAT compliant
- Avoid Handwritten corrections
- Invoices are addressed with the correct name of the purchasing
party, i.e. as per the PO issued
- Invoices should have valid Siemens Energy Purchase Order
number
- Payment terms will be calculated based the invoice submission
date
- Invoices in other languages than English will be rejected.
- Invoices should not be password-protected.
24.5 Status of Invoices Submitted
- You can check the status of your invoices online in iPEP portal after
4 working days from submission.- Suppliers link : https://ipep.platform.siemens.cloud/
- All invoices & payment related queries must be addressed ONLY
through the online tool iPEP (Integrated Partner Engagement
Platform)
- Write e-mail to ap.mea.in@siemens.com for login credentials
- Please send your SOA via e-mail to ap.mea.in@siemens.com