Townsville Grid Stability Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read Townsville, Australia: Hybrid RGS conversion to alternate between power production and grid stability mode Reference Rotating grid stabilizers RATCH-Australia Townsville Power Station will expand the capabilities of its Siemens Energy SGT5-2000E gas turbine to provide grid stability services. The challenge: Be ready to provide system strength and inertia services With the rising share of renewables in Australia’s energy mix, grid stability from rotating equipment has substantially decreased. Therefore, the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) requires grid operators like Powerlink to provide a minimum fault level and procure system strength. After reviewing eight different possible solutions, Powerlink concluded the addition of a clutch to the shaft between the gas turbine and the synchronous generator at the Townsville Power Station (TPS) was the least-cost option to address the shortfall and entered into a System Strength Services Agreement with TPS for the provision of system strength services. The solution: Repurpose an existing gas turbine as a Hybrid Rotating Grid Stabilizer Siemens Energy will provide integrated service solutions to convert the gas turbine to a Hybrid RGS during a scheduled major outage in 2025. Replacing the intermediate shaft of the gas turbine with a Synchro-Self-Shifting (SSS) clutch will provide an instantaneous switch from power generation to synchronous condenser mode. When in synchronous condenser mode, the Hybrid RGS unit can provide rotating inertia and short-circuit power without the need to produce power and is calculated to provide a short-circuit contribution of approximately 350 to 400 MVA. The electrical inertia while operating in the grid stabilization mode is calculated to be around 250 megawatt seconds (MW.s) and around 1,000MW.s while operating in power generation mode. It will be Siemens Energy's first project in Australia to convert an operating gas turbine unit to a Hybrid RGS. The project also marks the first Hybrid RGS conversion project on this size of gas turbine worldwide. Ensuring grid stability is key to integrating more renewable energy. Download our new white paper to explore how thermal power plants can support grid stability. Download white paper The benefit: A faster and more cost-efficient approach to building grid stabilization capability The benefits to the plant owner RATCH-Australia are a new revenue stream from providing grid services and the capability to switch flexibly between power generation and grid stabilization modes. Moreover, the grid stabilization capability comes at up to 50% less cost than a new synchronous condenser, and it can be completed in 18 months instead of three years. The RGS can also be serviced in the same maintenance cycle as the gas turbine. Do you have any questions? Please feel free to contact us if you would like to learn more about this reference or Rotating Grid Stabilizer conversion solution. If you are already a Siemens Energy customer, log in to Customer Extranet Portal (CEP) to see more information relevant to your unit. Contact us CEP log-in Read more 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services 5 min read Morrow Repower Project, USA: Forward-thinking power generation See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025