GKS Schweinfurt and EKu.SIM, Germany Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation Reference Conventional power Automation Modernization and upgrades Control systems Instrumentation and control An accurate one-to-one replica of plant processes and behavior at GKS Schweinfurt creates the perfect training environment for their operators. Contact us “ Our employees need to master the plant and their processes perfectly. The Omnivise T3000 Simulator and the high-fidelity process models from EKu.SIM provide us realistic simulation, which is indispensable for the training of our employees. Dr. Ragnar Warnecke Director of GKS-Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Schweinfurt GmbH The customer challenge: Perfectly realistic training environment For several decades, the Kraftwerks-Simulator-Gesellschaft (KSG) in Essen has been offering customized training concepts. EKu.SIM, KSG’s business unit for simulator engineering , develops and builds accurate simulators for different types of generating units. EKu.SIM works closely with the GKS-Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Schweinfurt GmbH and plays a central role in their simulation and training concepts. The GKS plants – a coal-fired cogeneration plant with combined heat and power, and a waste-to-energy plant – are operated with the Omnivise T3000 control system . To ensure safe and efficient operation, it is the primary target of GKS to equip their employees with the necessary knowledge and skills. The company required an accurate way to simulate plant processes, both to test new engineering functions and for training purposes. The way to get there is a simulation with an extremely high level of detail. The simulated system operation must accurately replicate the plant -  from the user interface to its processes and behavior. The solution: Accurate replica with T3000 Simulator and KSG's high-fidelity process models Thanks to close cooperation between EKu.SIM, Siemens Energy, and GKS-Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Schweinfurt GmbH, a completely realistic simulation of the GKS plants was achieved. Coupled with KSG's high-fidelity process models, the simulation precisely mirrors the plant's processes and complex areas like firing and flue gas cleaning. Various plant conditions, from start-up to full-load operation, as well as disturbed plant operation, are also simulated one-to-one. Using the Omnivise T3000 Simulator in conjunction with external process models results in a perfect training environment, in which GKS staff can test different scenarios, optimize processes, and control the plants safely. “ The T3000 Simulator trains the handling of the control system, and we complement this with process engineering. The result is a perfect training environment, in which the simulation behaves exactly like the plant. Peter Lasch Division Manager for Technology and Operation,  EKu.SIM Contact us Find out more about the products and services applied: Omnivise T3000 Simulator The benefits: Reliable operations due to correct reactions Improved knowledge of user interface and plant behavior Increased efficiency and safety of plant operation Practical tests and plant optimization Avoidance of outages or damage to the plant Reach out to us! With more than 4,000 successful control system projects worldwide we're a true partner in your success. Don’t hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. With our experts we’re ready for your next project! Contact us Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read SWE Energie, Germany: Up-to-the-minute power generation with Omnivise T3000 control system 3 min read NCPA, United States: DCS automation solution enhances their geothermal operations See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025