 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this policy is to define the Siemens Energy approach to managing energy  
efficiency . 
 
We have committed to become climate neutral in own operations by 2030 and have 
launched our Climate Neutral Program to achieve this ambitious target.  
 
At Siemens Energy, we’re supporting our customers in transitioning to a more sustainable 
world using our innovative technologies, extensive experience, and an ambitious strategy 
to drive the decarbonization of global energy systems.  We’re partnering with our suppliers 
to decarbonize our supply chain . 
 
Rational consumption of energy resources in the company and in solutions which we 
provide to our customers is important link in our business operation. We achieve 
preservation of the environment through clearly defined aspects and influences of 
company’s processes and activities on the energy management by monitoring and control 
of consumption of resources during the realization of pro cesses in the company and 
improvement of processes at customers.   
We apply modern technologies and processes, knowledge , and experience in order to 
continuously improve energy management performances.  
 
Our strongest levers to achieve climate neutrality by  2030 are:  
Reducing energy consumption  
Energy efficiency projects at our locations such as process optimization  and building 
improvements.  
Using renewable electricity  
100% of Siemens Energy’s global electricity consumption shall be met by  power from 
renewable sources by 2023.  
New mobility concepts  
We intend to continuously reduce our vehicle fleet’s emissions and the  related fuel costs. 
We aim for 100% CO2 -neutral benefit cars by 2030 . 
 
This policy will be reviewed annually to ensure that it remains c ompliant to the standard 
and relevant to the company’s activities.  
  
 
Boris Miljavac                                                                                      Laura Musić  
Managing Director                                                                              Financ e Directo r Energy Management  Policy  
Siemens Energy d.o.o. , Croatia  
