                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase of 
Goods and Services  
Siemens  Energy d.o.o.  Beograd  
 
1. Introductory Provisions  
 
1.1. The present  General Terms and Conditions of 
Purchase of Goods and Services (hereinafter: 
“General Conditions ”) shall apply: (i) in all cases 
where Siemens  Energy d.o.o. Beograd , 
headquartered at Omladinskih Brigada 90v, Belgrade  
(hereinafter: “ Purchaser ” or “SIEMENS ”), performs 
legal transactions in the capacity of buyer of goods 
and/or services, or (ii) where these General Terms are 
referred to in an y individual contract on purchase of 
goods and/or services , or in any Purchase Order, or in 
any other explicit manner a greed with the person 
supplying goods or performing services (hereinafter: 
“Supplier ”). 
1.2. These General Conditions  are effective as of 
1st October 2020. 
 
2. Purchase Order and Confirmation  Thereof  
 
2.1. The Purchaser  may cancel  the Purchase Order 
sent to the Supplier,  whose acceptance by the 
Supplier results in the conclusion of the  contract 
whereby the Purchaser undertakes to accept the 
goods or services of the Supplier (hereinafter: 
“Purchase Order ”), if the Supplier has failed to 
confirm receipt of the Purchase Order in writing 
within two weeks of receipt thereof (“ Confirmation 
of Purchase Order ”). The Purchaser reserves the 
right to withdraw an order at no cost to the 
Purchaser, unless it has received, from the Seller, a 
proper order confirmation within a reasonable 
period, but no later than two weeks after the date of 
the order. Such cancellation is deemed on time if it 
has been sent to the Seller before the Purchaser 
receives the purchase order confirmation.  
2.2. The Purchase Order and/or the Confirmation 
of Purchase Order may be exchanged between the 
parties by way of electronic data  interchange 
(Electronic Data Exchange, EDI) if such a way of 
communication has been previously and explicitly 
agreed , in written,  between the Purchaser and the 
Supplier . 
2.3. The acceptance of Purchase Order involving 
any modifications and/or supplements there to shall 
not be deemed entry into a contract without prior 
written consent by the Purchaser to such 
modifications and supplements. If the Confirmation 
of Purchase Order deviates from the Purchase Order, 
the Supplier is obliged to clearly indicate such 
modifications and supplements thereto in the 
Confirmation of Pu rchase Order. An unconditional 
acceptance of the goods/services, by the Purchaser, 
delivered by the Seller shall not be considered as 
acceptance of any such deviation. The General Terms 
and Conditions of the Supplier sha ll apply only if they 
do not contrad ict these General Conditions, or if the Purchaser has expressly and in written form agreed 
to their application. No action  on the part of the 
Purchaser , including the acceptance of goods and/or 
services, payment, etc., shall constitute an act of the 
Purcha ser’s acquiescence to the General Terms of the 
Supplier . Any reference in the order to the Seller's 
quotation documents by the Purchaser does not 
imply acceptance of the Seller's terms and 
conditions.  
2.4. Any terms and conditions of the Seller or any 
of its su bcontractors made available in paper or 
digital form, together with the delivery of software 
products, shall not be binding upon the Purchaser, 
unless the Purchaser gave its prior special written 
approval. All above mentioned i s valid , particularly if 
the Purc haser or any third parties attributable to the 
Purchaser (e.g. employees, consultants, customers 
of the Purchaser) commit an act that, pursuant to 
those terms and conditions, constitutes a basis for 
the conclusion of a contract, or  if software 
registration or other cards are sent to the Seller.  
 
3. The Rig ht of Use   
 
3.1. With respect to the rights transferred from the 
Supplier to the Purchaser upon delivery of goods 
and/or services, the Supplier guarantees that the 
Purchaser may and a uthorises the Purchaser to use 
the goods and/or services and transfer them to 
others, to install them in other systems, and to freely 
dispose of them without any limitations regarding 
time, territory or otherwise,  except where such 
limitations stem unambiguously from the nature of 
legal transaction , or where  such limitations have 
been expressly indicated in the Confirmation of 
Purchase Order.   
 
4. Delivery Deadline; Default ; Consequences of 
Default  
 
4.1. Unless otherwise agreed, the  Supplier is 
obliged to deliver goods, and/or perform services 
without delay and within a reasonable deadline. This 
implied or expressly agreed period shall count from 
the day of issue of the Purchase Order. It shall be 
deemed that the Supplier has timely delivered goods 
if the goods tha t are the subject  of delivery have 
been handed over to the Purchaser within the agreed 
deadline and at the agreed place, i.e. it shall be 
deemed that the service has been rendered in a 
timely manner if the Purchaser has accepted the 
works that are the subject of service within the 
agreed deadline and in the agreed manner. The time 
of acceptance of works concerning  installation, 
assembling, etc. shall be the relevant time for 
assessing the timeliness of delivery in the case it is 
envisaged by the contract th at the delivery of goods 
includes installation, assembly, etc., or if such 
delivery stems from the circumstances of the case.  
4.2. If, based on the circumstances of the case, the 
Supplier suspects that the obligation owed to the 
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Purchaser will not be met within  the agreed deadline, 
the Supplier shall  immediately inform the Purchaser 
thereof.  In that event, the period for delivery of 
goods or services shall be extended only if the 
Purchaser has explicitly accepted such extension in 
written form.  
4.3. In the case of default on the part of the 
Supplier, the Purchaser shall have the right to collect 
the contractual penalty, specifically:  
• in the amount of 2% of the agreed price for 
each week of delay, if the agreed deadline for 
meeting the obligation that is being delaye d was 
longer than  70 days;   
• in the amount of 1% of the agreed price for 
each day of delay, if the agreed deadline for meeting 
the obligation that is being de layed was shorter than 
70 days;  
4.4. In any case, the contractual penalty for 
untimely performance of th e obligation by the 
Supplier may not exceed 10% of the agreed price.  
4.5. The Purchaser is entitled to collect contractual 
penalty and such penalty is independent of the 
Seller’s fault and as well as of any proof of damage. 
The Purchaser reserves the right to claim damages 
exceeding the amount of the contractual penalty.  
4.6. If the Supplier’s obligation has not been met 
within the period in which the contractual penalty 
has reached its maximum, the Purchaser may 
terminate the contract and collect the contractual 
penalty in the amount of 10% of the agreed value as 
the contractual penalty payable for non-
performance.  This applies even if the Purchaser used 
to accept delayed partial deliveries without 
reservation before. The Purchaser shall have the 
same right and term inate the contract even before 
the time in which the contractual penalty reaches its 
maximum if the circumstances of the case show that 
the Supplier will not perform the obligation within 
that period . 
4.7. Failure of the Purchaser to request the 
payment of cont ractual penalty upon the acceptance 
of performance shall in no manner constitute a 
presumption that the Purchaser has waived such a 
claim, and the Purchaser shall be entitled to request 
the payment of contractual penalty until the time of 
final calculation  and payment, in which case the 
Purchaser shall be entitled to subtract the amount of 
contractual penalties from the payment owed  to the 
Supplier.   
4.8. The collection of contractual penalty does not 
preclude other rights of the Purchaser in the case of 
default or non -performance.  
4.9. In the case of Supplier’s delay in meeting the 
contractual obligations, i.e. in the case where it is 
reasonable to foresee such a delay, the Purchaser 
may, at the expense of the Supplier, take all 
reasonable and necessary measur es in order to 
prevent or remedy the consequences of the delay.   
4.10.  The provisions of these General Conditions  
concerning the contractual penalty  shall not apply in the case  where the performance deadline is an 
essential constituent element of the contract.  In such 
case  the contract shall be considered terminated  at 
the moment of delay (unless the Purchaser has 
clearly demonstrated maintenance of  the contract in 
force), whic h further authorises the Purchaser to 
claim the contractual penalty for non -performance in 
the amount of 10% of the agreed value . 
4.11.  The Purchaser is entitled to terminate the 
contract as a whole or in part, without prejudice to 
consequences, if insolvency or liquidation 
proceedings are opened against the Seller or if the 
Seller’s ownership structure changes. The Seller is 
obliged to immediately inform the Purchaser about 
any of these circumstances.  
 
5. Transfer of Risk, Transportation, and Place of 
Performance  
 
5.1. In the case of purchase of goods, the risk of 
loss of or damage to the goods transfers to the 
Purchaser at the moment of handover, while in the 
case of goods being installed or assembled the risk 
transfers to the Purchaser at the moment of 
acceptance of the assembly or installation.   
5.2. Unless agreed otherwise, if the registered 
office of the Seller and the place of delivery are 
within the EU, DDP (place of destination) Incoterms® 
2020 shall apply. If in this case delivery to 
construction sites or  directly to third parties is 
agreed, the Seller shall bear the costs and risk of 
unloading the goods.  
5.3. The goods the Supplier forwarded to the 
Purchaser shall be accompanied by the appropriate 
inventory and/or forwarding documentation, and the 
number of Purchasing Order shall be visibly displayed 
on the goods. The Supplier shall, without undue 
delay, send to the Purchaser the forwarding 
information along with the inventor y.  
5.4. In the case of early delivery, the Purchaser 
reserves the right to clai m from the Supplier all 
additional costs caused by such delivery (including 
but not limited to storage and insurance expenses), 
as well as to effect the payment for the delivery and 
services in accordance with the contractual clauses 
regulating the deliver y and payment. The risk of loss 
or damage of goods remains with the Supplier  until 
the agreed date/time of delivery , except w here the 
loss or damage occurred through the Purchaser’s 
fault.   
5.5. All requirements made by the Purchaser, 
regarding mode of transpor tation, carrier and 
shipment rules must be strictly adhered. If the 
Supplier does not personally deliver the goods and 
there are no other instructions of the Purchaser, the 
Supplier shall organise the transportation with due 
diligence and under the most favourable market 
conditions.  Should the Supplier fail to act in this 
manner, the Purchaser shall have the right to 
subtract from t he agreed price the difference in the 
expenses of transportation otherwise organised by 
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
the Supplier.  Additional cost arising from the need to 
meet the delivery date , by way of expedited 
shipment shall be borne by the Seller. Should agree 
payment instrumen ts (e.g. letter of credit) and 
shipping documents, especially  purchase order data, 
be missing or incomplete, the Purchaser  is entitled to 
refuse acceptance at the Seller’s cost and risk . 
5.6. Partial as well as over -deliveries and under -
deliveries are only perm issible after obtaining 
Purchaser’s express written approval. Goods are 
delivered to the goods receiving department of the 
place designated for delivery at the times agreed for 
the receipt of goods in the order. Each delivery shall 
be accompanied by a deli very note detailing the net 
weight per item and the complete purchase order 
number and the delivery address.  
5.7. Retention of title of whatsoever nature by the 
Seller is invalid.  
5.8. Where prices are quoted without packaging, 
packaging shall be charged at cost price and stated 
separately in the invoices. Unless otherwise agreed 
by the parties, the value of packaging material 
returned by the Purchaser to the Seller for reuse shall 
be re imbursed by the Seller. The Seller is liable for 
any damage caused by the improper packaging. 
When delivering hazardous goods, the Seller shall 
comply with all applicable statutory provisions, in 
particular those relating to the type and marking of 
packagi ng and to the means of transport to be used.  
 
6. Suspension of Performance ; Termination by 
Purchaser  
 
6.1. The Purchaser is authorised to order the 
Supplier to suspend the execution of contract at any 
time. Should such suspension last longer than three 
months, the  Supplier may request the Purchaser to 
reimburse the Supplier for all reasonable and 
documented expenses caused by such suspension 
from that moment until the suspension of execution 
is over. Under no circumstances is the Supplier 
entitled to request the Pu rchaser to reimburse the 
Supplier for the profit lost or expenses incurred 
during the  first three months of the suspension.  
6.2. Until the time the Supplier has fully 
discharged its contractual obligations, the Purchaser 
may terminate the contract , as a whole or in part,  at 
its own sole discretion even whe n there is no fault on 
the part of the Supplier. In that case, the Supplier is 
entitled to request the agreed price for the 
obliga tions that are proven to be performed  until the 
termination date , but no other claims against the 
Purchaser are allowed . 
6.3. Also, the Purchaser reserves the right to vary 
the scope of supply or services. The Seller is entitled 
to a corresponding adjustment in  the contract price.  
 
7. Invoices  
 7.1. The Supplier is obliged to specify on each 
submitted invoice both the number of the invoice 
and the number of Purchasing Order.  
7.2. Invoices must be prepared in a form enabling 
their control and easy comparison with the relevant 
Purchasing Order. Otherwise, the invoice shall be 
considered incomplete and shall not be honoured. 
All copies of invoices must be marked as duplicates.  
Electronic invoices will only be accepted if forwarded 
to the Purchaser via EDI.  
7.3. The Supplier shall submit the invoice aft er the 
goods  that are the subject of delivery  have been 
received, i.e. after the services have been performed. 
If expressly stated or implied from the circumstances 
of the case that the delivery in question involves 
testing, quality control, etc ., the deli very of relevant 
reports on the actions thus taken , and time reports 
confirmed by the Purchase,  shall comprise an 
integral part of the obligation of the Supplier and its 
obligation shall not be met without such reports. 
Adequate discount on the price shall  be granted 
should the Purchaser decide to accept the 
performance which is deficient in comparison to the 
agreed quality. Otherwise, the Supplier’s right to 
submit the invoice shall count only after all the 
deficiencies in the performance have been remedie d. 
Besides the reduction of the price in the case of 
acceptance of deficient delivery, the Purchaser shall 
be able to exercise any other rights in accordance 
with the law .  
 
8. Terms of Payment  
8.1. The period within which invoices must be paid 
commences with Purchaser’s unconditional 
acceptance of delivered goods or services and upon 
receipt of the properly issued invoice. If the Seller is 
obliged to provide material tests, test records or 
quality co ntrol documents or any other 
documentation, deliveries and services will be 
regarded as fully performed only upon receipt of 
such documentation. Unless agreed otherwise, the 
Purchaser shall be obliged to effect payment on the 
last day of the month followin g the month in which 
the invoice was delivered to the Purchaser.  
8.2. In any case, payment shall not be understood 
as the acceptance of performance by the Purchaser, 
i.e. as the Purchaser’s waiver of the right to object to 
deficiencies of such performance.  
8.3. Liabilities of the Supplier owed under a 
contract in accordance with the present General 
Conditions may not be compensated with claims the 
Supplier has against the Purchaser on any other 
basis. The Supplier may cede the claims the Supplier 
has against the Pur chaser only if such cession has 
previously been consented to in writing by the 
Purchaser .  
 
9. Inspection at Acceptance  
 
9.1. The mere receipt or temporary use of 
deliveries and services or payments made thereof do 
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
not constitute an acceptance or waiver of rights by 
the Purchaser. Acknowledgements of receipt issued 
by the goods receiving department of the Purchaser 
do not constit ute a final acceptance by the Purchaser 
of the goods delivered.  
9.2. At the time of discharge of the obligation, or 
immediately thereafter, the Purchaser shall perform 
inspection of the delivered goods and/or works in 
order to detect any visible deficiencies.  
9.3. The Purchaser shall notify the Supplier of any 
deficiency thus established within 30 days of the day 
of the discharge, i.e. of the day of commencement of 
the use of the delivery, its assembly or further 
processing, i.e. of the day the deficiency has been 
identified.  
9.4. The Seller is required to carry out an adequate 
inspection of the components that it provides (e.g. 
raw materials, building materials) from upstream 
suppliers, producers and other third parties upon 
receipt in order to determine any apparent or hidden 
defects, and to notify the supplier of such defects 
without delay.  
9.5. The Seller’s subcontractors are regarded as its 
agents, for which the Seller is entirely liable.  
9.6. The Supplier shall be liable for all deficiencies 
detected or emerging within two yea rs of the day of 
delivery of goods or acceptance of works, unless a 
longer deadline is prescribed by separate legal 
provisions . 
  
10. Liability for the Lack of Conformity  
 
10.1.  In the case of deficiencies, the Purchaser is 
authorised to request that they be remedied either 
by repair, or by delivery of the relevant goods 
without deficiencies, or by performing the relevant 
works in the agreed manner, or by reducing the 
agreed price to an equitable level. Additionally, the 
Purchaser is entitled to request paymen t of damages 
suffered by such performance.  
10.2.  Should the Supplier fail to remedy the 
deficiencies within the given deadline, the 
deficiencies may be remedied by the Purchaser itself 
or by engaging a third party, at the expense of the 
Supplier.  
10.3.  If the acceptan ce of delivery is conducted by 
way of inspecting randomised samples, and if any of 
the samples prove to be deficient, the Purchaser may 
reject the delivery as a whole. The Purchaser shall 
have the same right if any part of the delivery is 
deficient.  
10.4.  The P urchaser may terminate the contract 
without previously requesting that the deficiencies 
be remedied, in which case the Purchaser is entitled 
to request the contractual penalty payable for non -
performance in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 4 of th e present General Conditions.  
10.5.  In the case of partial performance, the 
Purchaser shall have the right to demand the 
performance in full, or to cancel the purchase in the 
part that has not been performed and to reduce the price equitably if the Purchaser has  no interest in 
accepting such partial performance. If the Purchaser 
demands the performance in full, the time when the 
agreed amount of work or goods has been actually 
received shall be deemed the time of performance of 
the obligation. At any rate, the Pu rchaser shall be 
able to exercise all the rights referred to in Article 4 
of these General Conditions .  
 
11. Warranty  
 
11.1.  The Seller warrants to the Purchaser  that it will 
use best, appropriate and brand -new materials, 
manufacture the products adequately and in 
compliance with the underlying technical drawings, 
and that it will provide their proper installation.  
11.2.  Warranty for the proper functioning of 
delivered goods, i.e. for the reliability of works 
performed shall be for two years. The warranty 
period for products and services that become a fixed 
part of buildings or land is three years.  
11.3.  The warranty period for deliveries begins to 
run with the erection or installation of the delivered 
products, for services with their acceptance, for 
deliveries not involvi ng erection or installation with 
their delivery to the place of destination, for hidden 
defects with their identification. For deliveries to 
locations where the Purchaser uses the Seller’s goods 
to perform contracts outside its premises, the 
warranty perio d begins to run with the acceptance of 
the services to be rendered by the Purchaser to the 
Purchaser’s customer. This time -limit is deemed to be 
observed if the Purchaser has asserted warranty 
claims against the Seller within the aforesaid periods 
in writi ng. 
11.4.  If engineering, advisory, software or 
documentation services or staff are provided by the 
Seller, the Seller fully guarantees the correctness and 
completeness of its written and verbal information 
and instructions for a period of two years after their 
provision.  
11.5.   Should any deficiencies show on the 
delivered goods or performed works during the 
warranty period, the Purchaser is authorised to 
request the Supplier to remedy such deficiencies in 
the manner to be determined at its discretion.  
11.6.  The Supplier shall remedy the claimed 
deficiency within a reasonable deadline set by the 
Purchaser. In the case of imminent danger, e.g. in 
order to avoid its own default, or if the Seller fails to 
rectify defects within a reasonable time, the 
Purchaser sh all be entitled to acquire defect -free 
products from third parties, without prior 
notification and without prejudice to its warranty 
claims against the Seller or to repair or have defective 
goods repaired at the Seller’s expense. The Seller 
shall fully rei mburse Purchaser for the cost of such 
repairs, even if it exceeds the cost of repair made by 
the Seller, without delay and following an invitation 
from the Purchaser.  
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
11.7.  The Purchaser is entitled to claim all costs 
incurred in connection with the rectificati on of 
defects, e.g. installation and removal costs. The 
Seller shall , without delay , reimburse Purchaser  for 
any inspection costs if an inspection has revealed 
defects. In addition to the right to request that 
deficiencies be remedied, the Purchaser is aut horised 
to request payment of damages caused by such 
deficiencies.  
11.8.  Warranty shall start anew for the repaired or 
changed parts of goods or works. The warranty 
period shall also be extended for the period the 
Purchaser was deprived of the use of goods or wo rks 
due to the deficiencies.  
11.9.  The Seller shall indemnify and hold the 
Purchaser harmless against disputes arising from any 
patent, copyright, trademark or registered design, 
and guarantee Purchaser the unrestricted use of the 
delivered product, without dela y and following an 
invitation from the Purchaser. Without prejudice to 
other obligations, the Seller will indemnify and hold 
Purchaser harmless against any product liability 
claims raised by third parties against Purchaser  as a 
result of defects in the pro ducts delivered by the 
Seller, without delay and following an invitation 
from Purchaser . The Seller undertakes to 
compensate Purchaser  for costs incurred in 
connection with a defence against any such claim or 
in connection with an obligation to repair defective 
products, without delay and following an invitation 
from the Purchaser  The Seller will provide Purchaser  
with ample proof that i t has taken out adequate 
insurance to cover these risks.  
11.10.  For a period of 11 years after the last delivery, 
the Seller shall provide Purchaser  upon the latter’s 
request with the names of the respective 
manufacturers, importers, upstream Sellers without 
delay, not later however than two weeks after being 
requested to do so. Furthermore, the Seller will 
provide the Purchaser  immediately with appropriate 
evidence, such as production records and documents 
specifying production and delivery batches and/or 
the da te of production and delivery to enable 
Purchaser  to oppose product liability claims.  The 
Purchaser reserves the right to demand proof of the 
Seller’s quality control system and the Seller’s 
documentation of the quality tests executed, and to 
carry out aud its on the Seller’s premises at any time. 
The Seller shall compensate Purchaser for the costs 
of the audit if defects in the quality control system or 
errors of the documentation of quality tests are 
detected in the course of the audit.  
11.11. The Purchaser bares  no responsibility for 
damages regarding health and safety, suffered by 
the employees of the Supplier or his sub suppliers, 
nor for the damages suffered by the Supplier or 
damages caused to third persons by the Supplier, 
except in case of intent or gross n egligence. The 
Supplier undertakes full legal responsibility for 
applying all health and safety measures within the 
business frame of this General Terms and Conditions. The same applies to the Supplier's liability for works 
he subcontracted to his cooperan ts. The Supplier is 
obliged to perform all contracted works and activities 
in a way which prevents any and all reports or 
publications at the detriment of the Purchaser and in 
a way which prevents disruption of the Supplier’s 
business reputation.   
11.12. All rig hts of the Purchaser concerning the 
liability of Supplier for the lack of conformity based 
on the warranty shall be considered ceded to the end 
user of the delivered goods or services, if the 
Purchaser is not the end user. In that respect, the 
Supplier sha ll be obliged to indemnify the Purchaser 
from all claims of the end user, or to reimburse the 
Purchaser for the amount of such claims and all 
accompanying costs . 
 
12. Materials of the Purchaser  
 
12.1.   In case the Purchaser provides the Supplier 
with materials necessary for the discharge of 
Supplier’s obligation, such materials shall remain the 
property of the Purchaser , and shall be, without 
compensation, separately stored, labelled and 
managed . The Su pplier shall take care of such 
materials with due diligence, keep them separately 
from other materials at the expense of the Supplier, 
and clearly mark the materials as the property of the 
Purchaser.  
12.2.   The Supplier is obliged to confirm receipt of 
the mate rials provided by the Purchaser. The Supplier 
may use such materials solely for meeting its 
obligations towards the Purchaser. Once the 
materials have been handed to the Supplier, the 
Supplier shall be liable for any damage and decrease 
of value of the mat erial. Any damage claims for 
delays in the provision of materials and the right of 
retention (lien) are precluded.  
12.3.   The objects made by the processing and 
use of the materials are the property of the 
Purchaser . 
 
13. Drawings, Sketches, Samples, Tools, etc . 
 
13.1.  Drawings and technical calculations shall be 
made available by the Seller free of charge, where 
necessary.  
13.2.  If, for the purposes of discharge of Supplier’s 
obligations, the Purchaser provides the Supplier with 
sketchers, tools, patterns, samples, models, pr ofiles, 
drawings, standard specification sheets, printing 
templates and materials ., or gives instructions or 
advice that are or may be the subject of intellectual 
property rights, they shall remain the property of the 
Purchaser, while the Supplier shall us e the objects 
thus provided solely for meeting the obligations 
towards the Purchaser, and return them to the 
Purchaser upon execution of the obligations. Any 
transfer of the objects to third parties shall be 
allowed only upon prior written consent of the 
Purchaser , and shall not be use in no other purpose 
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
but agreed . Upon meeting the obligations towards 
the Purchaser, the Supplier shall return to the 
Purchaser all the objects thus provided or  destroy all 
recording media containing the information referred 
to in this Article.  
13.3.  The Purchaser is authorised to request from 
the Supplier any drawings, sketches, plans, projects, 
specifications, etc. used by the Supplier in meeting 
its obligations towards the Purchaser, which were 
not previously obtained by the Purc haser . 
13.4.  Any and all documentation, such as plans, 
drawings, and models shall become the property of 
the Purchaser, even if the contract should be 
terminated prematurely or cancelled and shall be 
handed over to Purchaser upon request. The Seller 
shall grant to Purchaser exclusively, irrevocably and 
without claim for additional remuneration the sub -
licensable right of use, unlimited with respect to 
contents and time, as well as the corresponding 
permission to use the works resulting from this 
contract. purchas er thus is entitled to exploit, by 
means of implementation of the respective plans, or 
otherwise use said plans and other documentation in 
their original form or after modification without any 
further participation or approval by the Seller.   
 
14. Special Conditions Concerning Hardware and 
Software  
 
14.1.  Unless agreed otherwise, hardware and 
software shall always comprise a single product.  
14.2.  If the Supplier is obliged to deliver software 
that was not developed individually for the 
Purchaser, the Supplier shall grant the Purchaser a 
transferrable and non -exclusive licence to use the 
software. This right of use shall not be limited in 
duration in cases where the payment of a lump sum 
has been agreed for the use of such software.  
14.3.  For software products that ar e developed 
individually for the Purchaser, the Supplier shall 
grant the Purchaser an exclusive and transferrable 
licence to use the software; the licence shall be of 
unlimited duration and shall exclude the right of 
Supplier to use the software for any pu rpose. Unless 
otherwise agreed, software shall be delivered along 
with the source code of its latest version. The 
Purchaser is authorised to perform modifications of 
such software without consent of the Supplier.  
14.4.  The Supplier is obliged to install the soft ware. 
Upon installation, the Supplier shall provide a data 
carrier that may be displayed in the Purchaser’s 
system, both in the form of source code and object 
code, together with the relevant documentation 
(contents and structure of data carrier, programme  
and data flow diagrams, test procedures, test 
programmes, error processing, etc.). In addition to 
such documentation, the Supplier shall provide a 
sufficient number of copies of comprehensive 
written documentation for the user in the English 
language  and/ or any other language selected by the 
Purchaser.  14.5.  The software developed individually for the 
Purchaser shall be accepted in the form of written 
acceptance protocol  (minutes) , provided that the 
software meets the agreed requirements and 
specifications. Any corrections  to be effected by the 
Supplier shall also be included in the acceptance 
protocol.    
14.6.  During the warranty period, the Supplier 
undertakes to provide the Purchaser with all the 
subsequent versions of software in which errors 
were eliminated (updat es), free of charge. The 
supplier also undertakes to offer the Purchaser 
software maintenance services for competitive 
market prices for the period of at least five years 
following the acceptance date. Within the warranty 
period, the maintenance costs shal l be duly lowered.  
14.7.  The Supplier shall inform the Purchaser, no 
later than the time the Purchase Order is confirmed, 
whether the products and services to be delivered 
contain open source software.  In the context of this 
provision “open source software” means any 
software, hardware or other information that is 
provided royalty -free by the respective licensor to 
any user on the basis of a license with the right to 
modify and/or to distribute (e.g. GN U General Public 
License (GPL), the GNU Lesser GPL (LGPL), or the MIT 
License).   
14.8.  Should the Supplier fail to inform the 
Purchaser that the Supplier’s products and services 
contain open source software, the Purchaser is 
entitled to cancel the Purchase Order  and request the 
payment of damages , and the Seller is then also 
obliged to indemnify and hold Purchaser harmless.  
14.9.  Should the products and services delivered 
by the Seller contain open -source components, the 
Seller shall comply with all applicable open source 
license terms and shall grant all those rights to the 
Purchaser and provide all information which 
Purchaser nee ds in order to comply itself with the 
applicable license terms. In particular, the Seller must 
deliver to the Purchaser promptly after the order is 
confirmed the following:  
• The complete source code of the relevant 
open source software, including scripts an d 
information regarding its generating 
environment insofar as the applicable open 
source conditions require this;  
• A schedule of all open source files used, 
indicating the relevant license, its version 
and including a copy of the complete text of 
such licen se and reference to copyright 
and/or author -ship. Such schedule must 
have an understandable structure and 
contain a table of contents.  
14.10. The Seller shall inform Purchaser - at the latest 
at the time the order is confirmed - whether any open 
source licenses u sed by the Seller will – within their 
intended use - be subject to a “Copyleft Effect“ which 
will affect the products of the Purchaser. In the 
context of this provision, “Copyleft Effect“ means that 
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
the provisions of the open source license require that 
certain of the Seller’s products, as well as any 
products derived from these, may only be distributed 
further in accordance with the terms of the open 
source license e.g. only if the source code is 
disclosed.  
14.11. Should the Seller not indicate until receipt of 
the order that its products and services contain open -
source components or whether the described 
“Copyleft Effect“ would occur, then Purchaser is 
entitled to cancel the order within 14 (fourteen) days 
upon receipt of this information.  
 
15. Confidentiality; Data  Protection; 
Subcontractors  
 
15.1.   The Supplier undertakes to maintain as 
confidential all the information concerning the 
Purchaser or the scope of contract, unless such 
information has become publicly available or known 
to the Supplier in another lawful manner. Moreover, 
the Supplier undertakes to keep as confidential any 
results or partial results obtained in the 
implementation of Purchase Order, and to use such 
results solely for the implementation of the relevant 
Purchase Order. Should the Supplier engage a third 
party in the discharge of its contractual obligations, 
the Supplier shall ensure that the third party is 
contractually bound to maintain at least the same 
level of confidenti ality.  
15.2.   The same shall apply to any personal data 
about the employees of the Purchaser or any other 
third party data obtained by the Supplier in relation 
to the contract  concluded with the Purchaser . The 
Supplier is bound to protect such information from 
becoming available to any third party, to ensure 
compliance with the Law on Personal Data 
Protection, and to oblige its employees (including 
employees, externally engaged persons and 
independent experts) performing duties in relation 
to the contract to the  same level of confidentiality.  
15.3.  The Seller’s data (commercial register data, 
address, telephone and facsimile number as well as 
other information required for correspondence 
following from modern communication tools, 
locations, contact persons, ordered goo ds, and 
supply volumes) which become known to the 
Purchaser in connection with the respective business 
transaction will be automatically processed only for 
the execution of the contract, in particular, for 
administration and billing purposes. For technical  
reasons, it may be necessary to store such data on 
servers of a company that is a member of the group 
of the companies affiliated with the Purchaser.  
15.4.   The Seller expressly agrees that the data 
obtained from each business transaction and stored 
according t o item 15.3 may be passed on to other 
companies affiliated to the Purchaser.  
15.5.  The protection of personal data is very 
important to SIEMENS. Therefore, SIEMENS 
processes personal data only in accordance with all applicable data protection and data security 
regulations. In the course of doing business with 
suppliers SIEMENS processes personal data of 
contact persons at the Seller, at interested parties 
(potential suppliers) or at other business partners. 
Details to the categories of the processed data, the 
purposes of the processing and its legal grounds can 
be found in the Data Privacy Policy of the contracting 
Siemens company – available in detail on the 
respective homepage on the following link 
https://intranet.for.siemens.com/cms/110/sr/about/o
rg/Pages/rc -rs-lc-compliance -org.aspx . The Supplier 
agrees that the Purchaser may submit the 
information about the Supplier and/or the contract to 
other members of the SIEMENS Group.  
15.6.   The Supplier shall not assign its obligations 
towards the Purchaser to any third part y – 
subcontractor, without  explicit  written consent of 
the Purchaser. Should such consent be given, the 
Supplier undertakes to effect such assignment 
ensuring that all the rights and interests of the 
Purchaser are protected in accordance with the 
present G eneral Conditions.  
15.7.   The Supplier agrees that the Purchaser may 
assign the contract to any other member of the 
SIEMENS Group without special consent of the 
Supplier . 
 
16. Export Control and Foreign Trade Data 
Regulations  
 
16.1.  For all Products to be delivered and Services to 
be provided, Supplier shall comply with all applicable 
export control, customs and foreign trade 
regulations (“Foreign Trade Regulations”) and shall 
obtain all necessary export licenses, unless Purchaser 
or any party other than Supplier is required to apply 
for the export licenses pursuant to the applicable 
Foreign Trade Regulations.  
16.2.  Supplier shall advise Purchas er in writing as 
early as possible but not later than (7) days prior to 
the Delivery Date of any information and data 
required by Purchas er to comply with all Foreign 
Trade Regulations for the Products and Services 
applicable in the countries of export and import as 
well as re -export in case of resale. In any case 
Supplier shall provide Purchaser  for each Product and 
Service : 
▪ the “Export Control Classification Number” 
according to the U.S. Commerce Control List (ECCN) 
if the Product is subject to the U.S. Export 
Administration Regulations; and 
▪ all applicable export list numbers (A L); and 
▪ the statistical commodity code according to the 
current commodity classification for foreign statistics 
and the HS (Harmonised System) code; and 
▪ the country of origin (non -preferential origin); 
and 
▪ upon request by Purchaser : Supplier’s 
declaration for preferential origin (in case of 
European suppliers) or preferential certificates (in 
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
case of non - European suppliers) („Export Control 
and Foreign Trade Data“).   
16.3.  In case of any alterations to origin and/or 
characteristics of the Products and Services a nd/or to 
the applicable Foreign Trade Regulations Supplier 
shall update the Export Control and Foreign Trade 
Data as early as possible but not later than (7) days 
prior to the Delivery Date. Supplier shall be liable for 
any expenses and/or damage incurred by Purchaser 
due to the lack of or inaccuracy of said Export Control 
and Foreign Trade Data.  
16.4.  Siemens shall not be obligated to fulfil this 
agreement if such fulfilment is prevented by any 
impediments arising out of national or international 
foreig n trade or customs requirements or any 
embargoes or other sanctions.   
16.5.  For the provision of  Goods  and Services 
under this General Conditions, the Supplier shall only 
use employees who are not listed in the relevant 
national, European and US -American sancti ons lists 
based on foreign trade legislation. These lists 
include, but are not limited to, the US Denied Persons 
List (DPL), the US Unverified List, the US Entity List, 
the US Specially Designated Nationals List, the US 
Specially Designated Terrorists List , the US Foreign 
Terrorist Organizations List, the US Specially 
Designated Global Terrorists List and the EU's 
Terrorist List.  
 
17. Information, Declaration of Materials, RoHS, 
Disposal, Packaging, Dangerous Goods  
 
17.1.   If the Seller delivers products that are 
subject to regulatory or other legal requirements 
with regard to their placement on the market and 
further marketing in the European Economic Area, or 
comparable requirements in other countries of use 
named by the Purchaser, the Seller must ensure that 
the products fulfil these requirements in their version 
applicable at the time of acceptance. The Seller must 
further ensure that all documents and information 
necessary for proof of conformity of the products 
with th e applicable requirements can be supplied to 
Purchaser immediately upon request.  
17.2.  Notwithstanding any legal information 
duties, the Seller shall provide Purchaser with all 
necessary and useful information pertinent to the 
goods and services to be delivered, in particular, 
information on proper storage as well as safety data 
sheets in accordance with EU regulative applicable at 
the time of conclusion of the contract. In addition, 
the Seller shall raise Purchaser’s attention to the 
possibility of haz ardous waste or waste oils arising 
from the goods delivered by the Seller and shall, in 
particular, advise Purchaser on their disposal. Upon 
Purchaser’s request, the Seller shall take back, free of 
charge, any waste resulting from the ordinary use of 
the d elivered goods or similar products, as defined in 
the applicable Waste Management Act. However, 
such obligations shall be limited to the amount 
delivered by the Seller. Should the Seller refuse, or should the Seller not be able to accept such waste, 
the Pu rchaser shall be entitled to dispose of it at the 
Seller’s expense. Waste generated during the 
execution of works must be collected separately, 
waste disposals must be arranged for the separate 
collection of non - dangerous waste (metal, sheet 
metal, wood.. .) and be disposed of in the designated 
places for collection of certain type of waste. If 
occurrence of dangerous waste is predicted during 
the execution of the works, Seller is obliged to 
provide the containers for disposal of it, in 
accordance with the applicable regulations. 
Flammable waste must be in metal containers with 
lids and away from flammable sources. At the end of 
the work, it is the obligation of the Seller to clean the 
worksite, to dispose of any residual material and 
dispose waste in a lega lly prescribed manner. All 
costs for cleaning the construction site and 
eliminating or managing the waste is included in the 
agreed price. If Seller fails to fulfil this obligation or is 
late in performing of it, the Purchaser is entitled to 
perform the wo rk at the Seller's cost and will issue 
Invoice to Seller with payment terms equivalent to 
payment terms which the Purchaser has with Seller 
in certain case.  
17.3.  The Seller ensures that deliveries under the 
order are RoHS –compliant and therefore in 
conformity w ith the EC Directive on the Restriction of 
the use of certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical 
and Electronic Equipment (EU Regulations in the 
version applicable as of conclusion of the contract) at 
the time of delivery. In the event that deliveries fail  
to comply with this EC Directive, the Seller shall, 
without prejudice to any warranty claims that 
Purchaser may raise, compensate Purchaser for any 
damage arising from such non -compliance.  
17.4.  Should the Seller deliver legally permissible 
products, which are,  however, subject to statutorily -
imposed substance restrictions and/ or information 
requirements (e.g. REACH – Registration, Evaluation, 
Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), the 
Seller shall declare such substances in the web 
database BOMcheck (www .BOMcheck.net) or in a 
reasonable format provided by the  Siemens  no later 
than the date of first delivery of products. The 
foregoing shall only apply with respect to laws which 
are applicable at the registered seat of Seller or the 
Purchaser  or at the desi gnated place of delivery 
requested by the Purchaser . Furthermore, the Seller 
shall also declare all substances which are set out in 
the so -called “Siemens list of declarable Substances” 
applicable at the time of delivery in the manner 
described above.  
17.5.  Shou ld the delivery contain goods which – 
according to international regulations – are classified 
as dangerous goods, the Seller shall inform 
Purchaser hereof in a form agreed upon between 
Seller and the Purchaser, but in no case later than the 
date of order c onfirmation.  
 
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
18. Compliance Provisions ; Security in the Supply 
Chain  
 
18.1.  In the course of meeting the obligations that 
are the subject of the contract and other activities 
directly or indirectly related to the contract, the 
Supplier explicitly undertakes to comply with all 
applicable labour, employment, obligatory social 
contributions, tax, anti -corruption, antitrust, anti -
money laundering, environmental protection  and 
other laws and provisions, to refrain from any actions 
that might constitute bribery, violation of 
fundamental rights of the employee or child labour 
regulations.  In the case of cross -border assignments 
of employees, the Seller has to observe all statutory 
regulations of the country of operation. In particular, 
the Seller shall fu lfil all statutory wage requirements 
as well as the wage requirements from all collective 
bargaining agreements, shall fulfil his statutory 
obligations to pay taxes and social insurance 
contributions, shall comply with all statutory and 
official requiremen ts for work safety, and shall only 
use employees who have the necessary working 
permits and have proper social security and accident 
insurance. In case of involvement of third parties 
and/or involvement of further third parties involved 
by these third part ies, the Seller equally ensures the 
compliance with these requirements. Upon request 
the Seller has to provide to the Purchaser with 
respective written proof of compliance with these 
obligations, by itself and the third party. The Seller 
shall fully indemn ify and hold harmless Purchaser 
from and against claims based on the infringement 
of the obligations according to this article 18.1. by 
the Seller or third parties. Moreover, the Seller shall 
take responsibility for the health and safety of its 
employees a t their workplace, act in accordance with 
the applicable environmental laws and make the best 
efforts to promote this Code of Conduct among its 
Sellers.  
18.2.  The Seller is obliged to comply with all legal 
requirements regarding the health and safety of its 
employees. The Seller is obliged to ensure that the 
health and safety of its personnel as well as the 
personnel from his direct or indirect subcontractors 
employed to perform the deliveries and services and 
all other persons who are entitled to stay in the  work 
area, is protected.  
18.3.  If workers illegally employed or engaged  in 
any other illegal manner  by the Supplier are found on 
the construction site on which works and/or services 
in connection with the performance of an individual 
contract on purchase of goo ds and/or services  are 
performed , the Supplier shall pay the Purchaser a 
contractual penalty of € 5,000 per illegally employed 
worker and day of employment, without prejudice to 
further consequences and claims which Purchas er 
has pursuant to this General Terms and Conditions  
and the Law.  
18.4.  The Seller shall notify the Purchaser – at the 
latest upon submission of the Seller’s offer to the Purchaser – in writing if the Seller or members of its 
management board have been sentenced by final 
judgement of a  national court for corruption of a 
public officer within the last five years prior to the 
submission of the Seller’s offer to the Purchaser, and, 
without undue delay, if the Seller or members of its 
management board are charged with corruption of a 
public  officer before a national court at any time 
between submission of the Seller’s offer to the 
Purchaser and acceptance of the supplies/services of 
the Seller. Such notification shall ensure compliance 
with the requirements laid down by the OECD 
Recommendati on on Anti -corruption in relation to 
national export guarantees.  
18.5.  Additionally, the Supplier confirms that no 
part of payment effected by the Purchaser will, 
directly or indirectly, be used for securing an 
improper business advantage or gains for the 
Purch aser.  
18.6.  The Supplier hereby represents and warrants 
that the bank accounts to which the funds will be 
transferred on the basis of fulfilment of the contract 
are kept in its name and exclusively for its own 
account.  
18.7.  All payments to the Supplier shall be effe cted 
via electronic transfer between bank accounts. The 
Purchaser shall not make payment to the Supplier in 
cash or any other bearer instruments, or to a bank 
account in a country other than the country of 
Supplier’s registered office, or in a country wher e 
services have not been provided, and no payment 
shall be effected, directly or indirectly, via a trust 
company, intermediary institution, or a third party.  
18.8.  Compliance with these provisions by any 
subcontractor of the Supplier also comprises an 
essential obligation of the Supplier.  
18.9.  The Seller shall provide the necessary 
organizational instructions and take measures, 
particularly with regard to the following security: 
premises security, packaging and transport, business 
partner, personnel and information - in order to 
guarantee the security in the supply chain according 
to the requirements of respective internationally 
recognized initiatives based on the WCO SAFE 
Framework of Standards (e.g. AEO, C -TPAT). The 
Seller shall protect the goods and services provi ded 
to Purchaser or provided to third parties designated 
by Purchaser against unauthorized access and 
manipulation. The Seller shall only deploy reliable 
personnel for those goods and services and shall 
obligate any subcontractors to take equivalent 
securi ty measures.  
18.10. Failure to comply with these regulations shall 
constitute a fundamental  breach of the contract and 
entitles the Purchaser to termination of the contract 
with immediate effect . 
18.11.  The Seller is obliged to abide by the 
principles and terms of the “Code of Conduct for 
Siemens Sellers and Third -Party Intermediaries”, 
attached herein as Appendix 1 (hereinafter: “ Code of 
Conduct ”). 
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
18.12.  If required by the Purchaser, the Seller shall, 
once a year at most, submit to the Purchaser (of his 
own choice) eithe r (i) a written self -assessment 
report in the form requested by the Purchaser or (ii) 
a written report approved by the Seller which 
describes the measures taken or to be taken by the 
Seller in order to abide by the Code of Conduct.  
18.13.  The Purchaser and its au thorized agents, 
representatives and/or a third party appointed by 
Purchaser and acceptable to the Seller shall be 
authorized (but not obliged) to perform inspection - 
including on the Seller’s premises - in order to verify 
whether the Seller abides by the  Code of Conduct. 
Inspection may be performed only after prior written 
approval by Purchaser, during regular working hours 
and in accordance with the existing data protection 
act. In doing so, the inspection shall not 
unreasonably interfere with the Seller ’s operations 
nor violate any of the Seller’s confidentiality 
agreements concluded with third parties. The Seller 
is obliged to reasonably cooperate with any 
inspection being performed. Each party shall bear its 
own costs associated with such inspection.  
18.14.  In addition to all other rights and remedies 
available to the Purchaser, in the event that (i) the 
Seller severely violates the Code of Conduct on 
several occasions or (ii) if the Seller fails to allow 
Purchaser to use its right to inspection in accordance 
with the third paragraph of this Section, after 
Purchaser has warned the Seller and has given him 
sufficient time and opportunities to correct 
omissions, the Purchaser may terminate this 
Contract and/or any order performed under it, 
without any compensatio n. 
18.15. A severe violation includes but is not limited 
to cases of child labour, corruption and bribery and 
non-compliance with the terms related to 
environmental protection determined by the Code of 
Conduct. The provision which refers to the granting 
of a time -limit and the opportunity to correct 
omissions is not applicable neither to violations of 
terms and principles related to child labour stated in 
the Code of Conduct nor to the intentional non -
compliance with the terms referring to 
environmental protection  determined by the Code of 
Conduct.  
18.16. The Purchaser is granted with the right of 
direct monetary remuneration by the Seller, on the 
basis of an invoice due for payment within 7 days, in 
the amount determined by the Purchaser at its sole 
discretion for each c ase of breach of the provisions 
of this Article by the Seller. The Seller waives its right 
to contest such invoice issued by the Purchaser. In 
the event of such breach, the Purchaser is authorized 
to terminate the Contract and take any other 
measures, at i ts sole discretion. This right does not in 
any way affect Purchaser's right to compensation for 
damages or any other right deriving from the Seller's 
behaviour contrary to the statutory or contractual 
health and safety provisions.  
 19. Cybersecurity  
 
19.1.  The Seller undertakes appropriate 
organizational and technical measures to ensure the 
confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and availability 
of Seller Operations as well as products and services. 
These measures shall be consistent with go od 
industry practice and shall include an appropriate 
information security management system consistent 
with standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 
(to the applicable extent).  
19.2.  “Seller Operations” means all assets, 
processes and systems (including information 
systems), data (including Customer data), personnel, 
and sites, used or processed by the Seller from time 
to time in the performance of this contract.  
19.3.  Should products or ser vices contain 
software, firmware, or chipsets:  
• the Seller is obliged to implement 
appropriate standards, processes and 
methods to prevent, identify, evaluate and 
repair any vulnerabilities, malicious code, 
and security incidents in products and 
services wh ich shall be consistent with good 
industry practice and standards such as 
ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent 
applicable);  
• the Seller shall continue to support and 
provide services to repair, update, upgrade 
and maintain products and services 
includi ng the provision of patches to the 
Purchaser remedying vulnerabilities for the 
reasonable lifetime of the products and 
services;  
• the Seller shall provide to the Purchaser a 
bill of materials identifying all third -party 
software components contained in the 
products. Third party software shall be up -
to-date at the time of delivery to the 
Purchaser;  
• the Seller shall grant to the Purchaser the 
right, but the Purchaser shall not be 
obliged, to test or have tested products for 
malicious code and vulnerabilities a t any 
time, and shall adequately support the 
Purchaser;  
• the Seller shall provide the Purchaser a 
contact for all information security related 
issues (available during business hours).  
19.4.  The Seller shall promptly report to the 
Purchaser all relevant informati on security incidents 
occurred or suspected and vulnerabilities discovered 
in any Seller Operations, services and products, if and 
to the extent the Purchaser is or is likely to be 
materially affected.  
19.5.  The Seller shall take appropriate measures 
to achieve that its subcontractors and sellers shall, 
within a reasonable time, be bound by obligations 
similar to the provisions of this Article 19.  
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
19.6.  Upon the Customer’s request, the Seller 
shall provide written evidence of its compliance with 
this Article, including  generally accepted audit 
reports.  
 
20. Environmental Health and Safety  
 
20.1.  The Seller shall comply with all legal 
provisions on health and safety and shall make his 
best efforts  a) to remove threats to the health and 
safety of persons employed by the Seller and Seller’s 
direct or indirect sub -Sellers responsible for the 
performance of works (“ personnel ”) and b) to ensure 
that no person who is authorized to be on a 
construction si te, including personnel, Siemens 
personnel and visitors is injured.  
20.2.  Prior to the commencement of works, the 
Seller shall: 1) provide Purchaser with a risk 
assessment prepared for that specific site in written 
form that a) analyses any potential threats to the 
health and safety of personnel which may arise from 
the performance of works and b) determines 
measures, deadlines and responsible persons to 
remove such threats; 2) provide Purchaser with a EHS 
Plan/Plan of work execution prepared for that specific 
site, in written form, in accordance with provisions of 
the relevant national bylaw. Both documents must 
cover all Contractor’s work activities (his own and his 
sub-contractor’s).  
20.3.  The Seller shall ensure that all personnel, 
prior to the start of works, parti cipates in specific 
training organised for that construction site which 
must be documented in written form, and that the 
same personnel is equipped with appropriate 
personal protective equipment and other 
equipment. The Seller shall ensure that the 
personn el uses that personal protective equipment 
and other equipment and that the equipment is 
maintained in good condition at all times, have 
appropriate certificates and, if necessary, replace 
them with new ones.  
20.4.  The Purch aser reserves the right, at its sole 
discretion and at any moment, to remove any 
personnel from the construction site and/or suspend 
the performance of works for health and safety 
reasons, in which case Siemens shall bear no liability 
or any other consequences.  
20.5.  The Seller is obliged appo int an expert as its 
representative for environment, health and safety 
and fire safety (“the Seller’s EHS representative”) and 
shall ensure that the Seller’s EHS representative 
participates in discussions related to safety which will 
periodically be organi zed by the Purchaser.  
20.6.  The Seller shall regularly monitor 
compliance with the legal provisions as well as 
provisions in the field of occupational health and 
safety, fire safety and environmental protection 
defined in the contract and in the internal rules o f the 
End Customer. In addition, Seller shall a) periodically 
conduct site visits, known as Safety Walk and Talk 
(SRB: Sigurnosni obilasci i razgovori), b) ensure communication of Stop Work Authority (SRB: Pravo 
na obustavu rada u slučaju opasnosti) rule i n case of 
identified danger, c) ensure implementation of rules 
prohibiting work in parts for which a work permit has 
not been issued (SRB: Dozvola za rad) and d ) ensure 
communication to all workers that Purchaser must be 
informed about each Work order, i.e . the work 
activity must not start without prior approval by the 
Purchaser ’s responsible person.  
20.7.  Upon the request of the Purchaser, the 
Seller shall immediately allow Purchaser to access 
the Seller’s documents which refer to health and 
safety, fire safety and environment protection, and 
relate to the works.  
20.8.  In the event of an incident which leads to a) 
the death of any one member of personnel or b) 
serious injury which includes more than one day of 
incapacity to work of any one member of personnel 
or c) mor e than three workers put in hospitals, d) an 
injury that requires medical attention the Seller shall 
immediately notify Purchaser and shall, without 
delay, 1) provide first aid to injured persons and 
secure the location of the incident 2) conduct an 
analys is of the basic cause of the incident, 3) 
determine appropriate measures in order to prevent 
similar incidents in the future, 4) define time -limits 
and responsible persons for measures to be carried 
out and 5) submit a written report to Siemens within 
one week from the incident which contains sufficient 
details on the basic cause of the incident, the 
measures determined and the time -limits defined. 
The Seller shall support any additional investigations 
that might be carried out by the Purchaser.  
20.9.  Purchaser and its authorized persons and 
representatives and/or a third party designated by 
Siemens have the right (but not the obligation) to 
perform – including at the Seller’s premises – an 
Audit to evaluate the Seller’s environmental, health 
and safety managemen t system, including controls 
of appropriate documents and, in case of deficiencies 
classified as serious by Siemens, defining of remedial 
measures.  
20.10.  Such Audit may only be conducted by 
Siemens with prior written notice, during regular 
business hours, in acc ordance with applicable data 
protection law, and shall not unreasonably interfere 
with Seller’s business activities or violate any vendor 
confidentiality agreement with third parties. The 
Seller undertakes to cooperate reasonably during 
each performed Audi t. If the Audit is caused by 
serious incident described in clause 20.8 or by 
continuous or recurring environmental and 
occupational health and safety deficiencies, the cost 
of that Audit and any delay in the provision of 
Siemens services to the End Custome r shall be borne 
by the Seller.  
20.11.  When Purchaser  prepares a document 
related to health and safety on a construction site 
(“EHS Plan/Plan of work execution”), the Purchaser  
will provide a copy of it for the Seller. The Seller shall 
confirm the receipt of the document in writing and 
                                                                                                     v.1.0. 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
act in accordance with the provisions contained 
therein. The same applies to the amendments to the 
EHS Plan/Plan of work execution which Siemens may 
carry out when deemed necessary. The Seller shall 
ensure that its direct or indirec t sub -Sellers, with 
which the Seller contracted works, commit to 
conduct in compliance with the EHS Plan/Plan of 
work execution and its amendments.  
20.12.  In addition to all other rights, Purchaser  
may, in the event the Seller violates legal and/or 
contractual pr ovisions regarding health and safety or 
regularly performs works failing to comply with 
those provisions, including the provisions of this 
Section and the provisions of the EHS plan/Plan of 
work execution, terminate this contract after the 
Seller fails to correct the identified violations within 
a reasonable time -frame or prohibit access to Seller’s 
employees who frequently violate the rules, or 
suspend work until the non -compliance is remedied. 
In that case, the Purchaser  shall have no liability to 
the Sel ler or any other third party nor any other 
consequences regarding the termination of this 
contract.  
20.13.  The Purchaser  is granted with the right of 
direct monetary remuneration by the Seller, on the 
basis of an invoice due for payment within 7 (seven) 
days, in the amount determined by Purchaser  at its 
sole discretion for each case of breach of the 
statutory or contractual  health and safety provisions 
by the Seller. The Seller waives its right to contest 
such invoice issued by the Purchaser . In the event of 
such breach, the Purchaser  is authorized to terminate 
the Contract and take any other measures, at its sole 
discretion . This right does not in any way affect 
Purchaser 's right to compensation for damages or 
any other right deriving from the Seller's behaviour 
contrary to the statutory or contractual health and 
safety provisions.  
 
21. International Law; Competent Court  
 
21.1.  The place of performance for deliveries or 
services shall be the place of destination. For 
payments, the place of performance shall be the 
Purchaser’s seat.  
21.2.  All disputes arising from or in connection 
with the contract shall be settled before the 
Commercial Cou rt in Belgrade, and the law of the 
Republic of Serbia shall be applicable.  The application 
of trading customs and practices, conflict of laws of 
the private international law and the rules of the 
United Nation Convention on Contract for the 
International S ale of Goods is precluded . However, 
the Purchaser  shall also be entitled to bring 
proceedings against the Seller before any other 
court, e.g. before the Seller’s court of general 
jurisdiction.  
21.3.  The invalidity of individual provisions shall 
not affect the va lidity of the remaining provisions of 
the contract.  
  
 
 