                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     v.1.0.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  1  
General Terms and Conditions of Sale of  
Goods and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o. Beograd  
  
1. General Provisions  
  
1.1. The present General Terms and Conditions of Sale of Goods 
and Services (hereinafter: “ General Conditions ”) shall apply (i) 
in all cases where Siemens Energy d.o.o. Beograd, 
headquartered at Omladinskih Brigada 90v, Belgrade 
(hereinafter: “ Siemens ”), performs legal transactions in the 
capacity of seller of goods and/or provider of services, or (ii) 
where thes e General Conditions are referred to in any individual 
contract on procurement of goods and/or services, or by way of 
Confirmation of Purchase Order, or in any other manner agreed 
with the person purchasing goods and/or services (hereinafter: 
“Purchaser ”). These General Conditions are effective as of 1 
January 2020.  
1.2. A contract shall be considered concluded upon receipt of 
Confirmation of Purchase Order by Siemens.   
1.3. The General Terms and Conditions of the Purchaser shall 
apply only when accepted in writing by Siemens, or if they do 
not contradict the present General Conditions. No action, 
including the acceptance of goods and/or services, payment, 
etc., shall constitute an act of Siemens’ acquiescence to the 
General Terms of the Purchaser.  
1.4. The scope of delivery of goods and/or provision of services 
(hereinafter: “ Delivery ”) shall be defined in an individual 
contract or through Confirmation of Purchase Order by 
Siemens.  
1.5. Siemens reserves all rights, including intellectual property 
rights,  regarding all documents comprising an offer or 
Confirmation of Purchase Order, including e.g. specifications, 
drawings, sketches, catalogues, etc. (hereinafter: 
“Documents ”). Documents may not be placed at the disposal of 
the third parties without prior c onsent by Siemens, and the 
documents shall be immediately returned to Siemens at its 
request. The same treatment shall be accorded to the 
corresponding documents of the Purchaser. The Purchaser 
agrees that Siemens may inform its subcontractors and other 
members of the SIEMENS Group of the contents of such 
documents.   
1.6. In the case where Delivery includes any software products, 
including all applicable documentation, the “SIEMENS General 
License Conditions for Software Products for Automation and 
Drives for Customers with a Seat or Registered Office outside of 
Germany” shall apply to such software products and 
documentation. The Purchaser may, upon request, be 
furnished with the General Licence Conditions for Software 
Products. At any rate, the Purchaser shall only be granted a non -
exclusive right to use the software in a machine readable 
format of object code in relation with the Delivery and in the 
manner specified in the documentation on the use thereof, if 
such documentation exists. The Purchaser may t ransfer its 
rights regarding the software only in the case of sale or other 
transfer of the Delivery to a third party. The Purchaser shall be entitled to make two reserve copies of such software, provided 
that the use thereof is limited to the abovemention ed rights.   
1.7. Partial performance of the contract shall be allowed if the 
Purchaser has no interest in rejecting such partial performance, 
in case the partial performance is not justified by the nature of 
transaction.  
  
2. Price and Method of Payment  
  
2.1. Unless agreed otherwise, prices shall be ex works 
(Incoterms 2010 ). Prices shall not include packaging and 
transportation costs, taxes, duties, fees and other costs payable 
in accordance with the effective law of the Republic of Serbia. 
All such costs , taxes and duties shall be borne by the Purchaser 
in accordance with the effective legislation and/or in the 
amount dictated by regular market conditions.  
2.2. Siemens shall submit to the Purchaser the invoice in the 
agreed amount specifying all the elem ents envisaged by the 
relevant legal provisions. The Purchaser’s payment obligation 
shall be due no later than the last day of the month in which 
the conditions referred to in Article 3 have been met. After the 
due date, Siemens shall be entitled to charge  Purchaser with 
statutory arrears interest on such overdue payments.  
2.3. In the case the price is expressed in foreign currency, the 
payment shall be effected in dinars (RSD) at the mean exchange 
rate of the National Bank of Serbia on the day the invoice  is 
submitted to the Purchaser in the agreed amount specifying all 
the elements envisaged by the relevant legal provisions.  
If the exchange rate of foreign currency in which the price has 
been agreed changes from the day of invoicing to the day of 
payment  for more than 5%, the payment shall be effected in 
dinars (RSD) at the mean exchange rate of the National Bank of 
Serbia on the day of payment and Siemens will, on that 
account, provide the Purchaser with a corresponding/proper 
credit or debit note.  
2.4. In case the price has been agreed in dinars (RSD), and in 
the period from the day of Confirmation of Purchase Order or 
entry into contract to the due date the consumer price index in 
the Republic of Serbia according to the National Statistical 
Office chan ges by more than 1% on average on a monthly basis 
for each started month of the relevant period, Siemens reserves 
the right to oblige the Purchaser by debit note to pay the 
difference in price adjusted accordingly.  
2.5. Payment of the price shall be effec ted exclusively to the 
bank account of Siemens. The obligation to pay the price shall 
be considered discharged only if the amount paid is free of any 
encumbrances and deductions, as well as of any transfer costs 
and fees. Otherwise, the amount payable by t he Purchaser shall 
be increased by the amount of all such deductions and 
encumbrances so that Siemens may receive and retain the net 
amount. Should the payment of the price involve the payment 
of withholding tax, the Purchaser is obliged to submit the tax 
payment confirmation concerning the tax thus paid, within four 
weeks of payment of the invoice per which the withholding tax 
has been paid.  
                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     v.1.0.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  2  
2.6. If Siemens’ obligations involve installation, assembly or 
other accompanying works, the Purchaser shall bear a ll the 
costs incurred in relation therewith.  
2.7. Unless expressly agreed, the Purchaser may not 
compensate its receivables against Siemens with the 
receivables Siemens claims against the Purchaser.  
  
3. Terms of Payment  
  
3.1. Unless agreed otherwise, the following terms of payment 
shall apply:   
(i) For Deliveries whose value is up to 10,000 Euro, 
payment shall be effected upon receipt of the Delivery and the 
submission of invoice;   
(ii) For Deliveries whose value exceeds 10,000 Euro and 
the delivery deadline is within three months, 1/3 of the price 
shall be paid upon entry into contract and the submission of 
invoice, and the rest upon receipt of the Delivery and the 
submission of invoice;   
(iii) For Deliveries whose value exceeds 10,000 Euro and 
the deliver y period exceeds three months, 1/3 of the price shall 
be paid at the time of entry into contract, 1/3 upon expiry of a 
half of the delivery period and the submission of pro forma 
invoices, and the rest upon receipt of the Delivery and the 
submission of the  relevant invoice.   
3.2. In the case payment in instalments has been 
agreed, if one of the instalments is overdue Siemens 
may declare all the other instalments due for payment 
immediately.   
3.3. Unless agreed otherwise, as a form of 
security for its contractual obli gations the Purchaser 
shall submit at least three signed blank bills of 
exchange with proper authorisation, along with proof 
of registration of the bills of exchange with the 
National Bank of Serbia.   
3.4. Unless agreed otherwise, advance payment 
shall be effec ted no later than 15 days of the day of 
Confirmation of Purchase Order i.e. of the entry into 
contract. Siemens shall not be obliged to proceed with 
the Delivery before receiving the advance payment. If 
advance payment has not been effected even after 
the expiry of the above -mentioned deadline, Siemens 
may terminate the contract and request the payment 
of damages. Should Siemens refrain from terminating 
the contract, in addition to extending the Delivery 
deadline to reflect the period during which the 
advan ce payment has been overdue, Siemens 
reserves the rights referred to in Paragraph 5.5.   
3.5. In the case the Purchaser’s credit rating, as 
evaluated by Solvent Rating doo and published at 
www.boniteti.rs , is lower than B1, the terms of 
payment shall be agreed separately.   
  
4. Retention of Title  
  
4.1. The subject of Delivery, in whole or in part, shall remain 
the property of Siemens until the agreed price has been p aid in full. During that time, the Purchaser may not pledge, sell or 
otherwise dispose of the Delivery or parts thereof. An exception 
to such prohibition of disposal exists in the case where the 
Purchaser sells the Delivery and/or parts thereof to the thir d 
parties as part of its regular business operations, provided that 
the Purchaser has informed such third parties of the rights of 
Siemens in accordance with this Article, and that the third 
parties have expressly consented thereto. Absence of such 
informa tion and/or consent shall not result in termination or 
absence of the rights of Siemens envisaged in this Article, but it 
will additionally enable Siemens to request payment of 
damages thus caused by the Purchaser.  
4.2. In the case where the Purchaser dis poses with the Delivery 
on behalf of the third parties, the act of disposal shall 
automatically comprise the assignment to Siemens of  
Purchaser’s receivable against the third party to be collected by 
Siemens in accordance with Article 444, Paragraph 2, of  the 
Law of Obligations. For clarification, in such case Siemens 
reserves the right to collect the amount equivalent to the 
agreed price either from the Purchaser or the third party, 
whereas the relevant part of Purchaser’s obligation shall be 
extinguished  only after the assigned receivable has been 
collected. Siemens will return to the Purchaser any amount 
collected from the third party based on the assigned receivable 
exceeding the amount of debt owed to Siemens by the 
Purchaser.  
4.3. In the case where t he Purchaser disposes of the Delivery or 
parts thereof on behalf of third parties in accordance with the 
provisions of Paragraph 4.1. together with other deliveries, the 
provisions of Paragraph 4.2. shall also apply to the part of such 
deliveries to the th ird party corresponding to the value of 
Deliveries to the Purchaser. 4.4. In the case where Deliveries 
have been further processed or otherwise modified, the 
retention of title shall continue to apply so that Siemens will 
remain the owner of objects thus p rocessed or modified in 
accordance with this Article. In case the subject of Delivery has 
been fused or mixed with, or built into another object, Siemens 
as the owner of the subject of Delivery shall become co -owner 
of the object created by such fusion or mixture, or of the object 
the subject of Delivery has been built into, and the provisions 
of Paragraphs 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3, shall apply mutatis mutandis .  
4.5. The Purchaser may collect the receivables assigned in 
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph  4.2. until Siemens 
notifies otherwise. The right of Siemens to such notification 
shall exist particularly if the Purchaser is overdue or has stopped 
making payment of the price, or if there are any circumstances 
that may be considered grounds for bankrupt cy in accordance 
with Article 11 of the Law on Bankruptcy; the existence of such 
circumstances need not be established by a decision of the 
competent state authority but it will be reasonably assessed by 
Siemens based on the available evidence. At the mome nt of the 
notification Siemens shall have the standing to request the 
third party (debtor of the receivable assigned in lieu of 
payment) to return the subject of Delivery, or to pay the 
receivable assigned in lieu of payment.  
4.6. The risk of accidental l oss or damage to the subject of 
Delivery shall pass to the Purchaser at the moment it has been 
handed to it. If the subject of Delivery has been insured, all 
                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     v.1.0.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  3  
receivables based on the insurance shall be deemed assigned 
to Siemens for the collection of the a greed price.  
4.7. Purchaser shall immediately notify Siemens of any claims 
against the subject of Delivery, be them impending or enforced, 
and submit all the relevant documentation available.  
4.8. In the case of non -performance of contractual obligations 
on the part of Pur chaser, Siemens as the owner may request 
return of the subject of Delivery in whole or in part, which shall 
in no manner prejudice its decision to eventually terminate the 
contract.  
  
5. Delivery Deadline; Default and Consequences  
  
5.1. Timeliness of Deliv ery is dependant on timely receipt of all 
documents, applicable permits, approvals, and particularly 
plans, the provision of which need to be ensured by the 
Purchaser, i.e. on the performance of Purchaser’s obligations 
that precede the commencement of Deli very, such as advance 
payment, organisation of the place of delivery, etc. If such 
conditions have not been met, the delivery deadline shall be 
extended for the period until the conditions have been met, 
except where Siemens is liable for delay. The Delive ry deadline 
shall extend for the relevant period in all other cases for which 
Siemens may not be held accountable, such as force majeure , 
administrative bans, strikes, IT system failures (despite 
reasonable preventive measures), protests and blockades, 
delays in the procurement process, etc.   
5.2. In the case of delay in Delivery for which Siemens may be 
held responsible, the Purchaser has the right to collect 
contractual penalty in the amount of 0.5% of the value of the 
delayed Delivery for each full cale ndar week of the delay. The 
total amount of such contractual penalty may not exceed 5% of 
the total value of the Deliveries that are the subject of the 
contract. Along with the request for payment of the contractual 
penalty, the Purchaser is obliged to sub mit relevant proof of 
damages suffered.   
5.3. Liability of Siemens for damages caused by delay in 
Delivery shall exist only in the case of actual damage, while 
liability for any loss of profit or consequential and indirect 
damage is excluded. By the colle ction of contractual penalty in 
accordance with Paragraph 5.2, any further claims of the 
Purchaser shall be excluded.  
5.4. The Purchaser may terminate the contract due to the delay 
in Delivery only when the amount of contractual penalty has 
reached its maximum. In such case, the contractual penalty 
referred to in Paragraph 5.2 shall be deemed contractual 
penalty payable for no n-performance, and this penalty is the 
only claim the Purchaser may have against Siemens.  
5.5. In the case where timely Delivery is not possible due to 
circumstances that may be ascribed to the Purchaser (the case 
of default by creditor), in addition to t he extension of deadline 
in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 5.1, Siemens 
reserves the right to request from the Purchaser the payment 
of expenses incurred by storing and insuring the subject of 
Delivery for the relevant period, as well as all o ther logistical 
costs arising therefrom. Moreover, where the Delivery is 
delayed for such reasons for more than a month, Siemens is authorised to claim from the Purchaser all additional expenses 
caused by such delay.   
  
6. Transfer of Risk  
  
6.1. If the Del ivery does not include assembly, mounting or 
installation, the risk transfers at the moment when the Delivery 
has been ready for dispatching to the agreed place and at the 
agreed time. The same shall apply where it is agreed that 
transportation cost will b e borne by Siemens, and Siemens 
hands the goods over to a freight forwarder. Upon request and 
at the expense of the Purchaser, Siemens will insure the 
Delivery against usual transportation risks.   
6.2. If the Delivery includes assembly, mounting or instal lation, 
the risk transfers at the moment when it is received by the 
Purchaser, or, if so agreed, after the test period. The test period 
shall last as necessary to establish the proper functioning of the 
subject of Delivery in accordance with its nature.  
6.3. Should the forwarding or delivery, the beginning or the 
end of assembly or installation, or the takeover by the 
Purchaser, or the test period be delayed for a reason for which 
the Purchaser is responsible, or should the Purchaser fail to 
accept the del ivery for any other reason, it shall be deemed that 
the risk passed to the Purchaser at the moment Siemens was 
ready to perform its obligation. The rights of Siemens referred 
to in Paragraph 5.5. shall also apply.  
6.4. In the case of delivery by Siemens w ithin the Republic of 
Serbia, the Siemens Global Shipping Policy  shall apply. For 
goods produced in Siemens’ production plants, the insurance 
shall be effective as soon as the goods leave the storage 
premises from which the goods are sent for further direc t 
transportation; for goods of other suppliers, the insurance shall 
be effective at the moment of transfer of risk to Siemens, but 
no earlier than as described above. The insurance shall cease as 
of the moment the goods are placed in the area envisaged for  
that purpose by the receiving party at the specified location 
(exact place of delivery), i.e. as of the moment of placing the 
goods in the storage. If the goods are placed directly on the 
ground/foundations, such ground/foundations shall be 
considered the  place of storage.  
  
7. Assembly, Mounting and Installation  
  
7.1. Unless otherwise agreed, assembly, mounting and 
installation shall be subject to the following conditions: (i) The 
Purchaser shall ensure in a timely manner and at its own 
expense:  
a) all ground and construction works, and other 
accompanying services that are not within the scope of 
Siemens’ business activities, as well as the necessary skilled 
and unskilled labour, materials and tools;  
b) materials and equipment necessary for assembly, 
installation and commissioning, such as scaffolding, lifting 
equipment etc., fuel and lubricants;  
c) energy and water at the place of usage, including  
connections, heating and lighting;  
                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     v.1.0.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  4  
d) suitable dry premises in the field, of sufficient size and 
capacity to properly and safely store parts, machines, 
devices, materials, tools, etc., and premises suitable for 
work and rest of the staff engaged in installation, including 
suitable sanitary facilities;   
e) protective clothing and equipment suitable for specific 
cond itions in the field.  
(ii) Before the assembly or installation, the Purchaser is 
obliged to obtain all construction permits and other necessary 
approval by the competent public authorities, to notify the 
authorities of the commencement of works, to perform all the 
activities required by the applicable law, to enable the 
performance of works within the scope of the Delivery, and to 
provide all the necessary information regarding the location of 
underground power lines, gas and water pipes and similar 
installation s, as well as information concerning geotechnical 
properties of the site.   
(iii) Before the assembly or installation, the materials and 
equipment necessary for the commencement of work must be 
provided in the field and all preparations must reach the phase 
in w hich the assembly or installation can start and proceed 
unhindered in accordance with the agreement. Access roads to 
the site and the site itself must be suitable for the subject of 
Delivery.   
(iv) Should the assembly, installation or commissioning be 
delayed due to circumstances for which Siemens is not 
responsible, the Purchaser shall bear reasonable costs incurred 
by Siemens due to such delay.  
(v) Each week, the Purchaser shall provide Siemens with 
confirmation of the time spent on the work by the staff 
engaged  in the installation and it shall immediately confirm to 
Siemens in writing the conclusion of the assembly, installation 
or commissioning.   
(vi) Should Siemens request that the Purchaser perform 
technical inspection and acceptance of the Delivery, the 
Purchaser  shall do so within a week of Siemens’ request, as 
otherwise it shall be considered accepted. Likewise, Deliveries 
shall be considered accepted if they have been put into use 
after any agreed test phase.   
  
8. Acceptance of Deliveries  
  
8.1. Delivery shall be considered performed at the time of 
transfer of risk in accordance with the provisions of Article 6.  
8.2. The Purchaser may not refuse to accept the Delivery in case 
of minor deficiencies. A deficiency shall be considered minor if 
it doe s not preclude regular use or functioning of the subject of 
Delivery.   
8.3. Should the Purchaser refuse to accept the Delivery for any 
reason, and the Purchaser commences with commercial use of 
the object of Delivery or disposes of it, it shall be conside red 
that the Delivery has been performed at the moment of 
commencement of commercial use or disposition thereof, 
unless agreed otherwise.  
  
9. Liability for the Lack of Conformity  
  9.1. The Purchaser is obliged to inspect each Delivery at the 
time of acceptance with due diligence of a good 
businessperson and expert at the time of acceptance. The 
Purchaser shall, under the threat of losing the relevant rights, 
immediately and without delay  notify Siemens of any 
deficiencies discovered during such inspection. The notification 
of such deficiencies shall contain appropriate description of the 
deficiency, and reference numbers of the contract, the 
Confirmation of Purchase Order and/or the Invoi ce.  
9.2. In the case where the Purchaser forwards the Delivery to 
third parties (buyers) without reloading and inspecting it, 
Siemens shall not be liable for visible deficiencies, while any 
latent defects must be reported within six months of the day of 
Delivery regardless of when the Purchaser handed the subject 
of Delivery to its buyers.   
9.3. Purchaser shall notify Siemens of latent defects as soon as 
the Purchaser learned thereof and without undue delay. The 
liability of Siemens for latent defects sha ll cease six months 
after the acceptance of Delivery, unless otherwise envisaged by 
the mandatory provisions of the applicable law.  9.4. Upon 
receipt of notification concerning the deficiency referred to in 
this Article, Siemens shall be authorised to ins pect the 
Deliveries affected by such deficiency and, at its discretion, 
remedy the deficiency either by way of repair or by replacement 
of the defective part or of the entire Delivery with a new, 
deficiency -free Delivery. If Siemens is not allowed to inspe ct the 
Delivery, which shall always include the original packaging and 
the selection of the manner of remedying the deficiency, the 
liability for such deficiency shall be precluded.  
9.5. In the case of failure to remedy the deficiency within a 
suitably ex tended deadline, the Purchaser may request that the 
price be reduced by the amount corresponding to the 
difference in the value of the subject of Delivery free of any 
deficiencies and the value of the deficient subject of Delivery at 
the moment of entry in to a contract; alternatively, the 
Purchaser may terminate the contract in the manner and with 
the consequences stipulated in Article 15.   
9.6. The liability of Siemens shall be precluded in the case of 
minor inconformity of the Delivery in terms of agreed  quality, 
quantity and performance; the deficiencies that affect the 
functionality of the Delivery to a small extent only; the 
deficiencies that appeared after the acceptance of Delivery as a 
result of improper or negligent handling of the Delivery in the 
course of installation or assembly that were not performed by 
Siemens; the deficiencies caused by inadequate storage 
conditions from the moment of acceptance to the moment of 
assembly or installation; the deficiencies resulting from the 
failure to follow t he manufacturer’s or Siemens’ instructions, or 
from unauthorised servicing of the subject of Delivery, as well 
as from other circumstances that cannot be ascribed to 
Siemens.   
9.7. All the rights of the Purchaser in relation to any deficiency 
shall expire  12 months after the timely notification of the 
deficiency in accordance with this Article.   
9.8. The Purchaser may refuse to pay the sale price only in the 
amount corresponding to the value of works performed in order 
to remedy the deficiency, or to the value of parts of Delivery 
that need to be replaced. The above right of the Purchaser shall 
                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     v.1.0.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  5  
also expire 12 months after the day of notification of the 
deficiency.   
9.9. Preclusion or limitation of Siemens’ liability in relation to 
any deficiency shall not  be valid in the case of intentional 
damage or gross negligence, or if Siemens was aware of the 
deficiency at the moment of acceptance.  
  
10. Warranty for Proper Functioning of the Subject of 
Delivery   
  
10.1.   Warranty for proper functioning of the subject of Delivery 
shall be 12 months following the day of the receipt of Delivery. 
The Purchaser shall, under the threat of losing the rights under 
warranty, immediately notify Siemens of any deficiencies that 
have appeared after the receipt of Delivery and with in the 
warranty period.   
10.2.   With regard to timeliness and regularity of notifications, 
the provisions of Paragraphs 9.1. and 9.2. shall apply mutatis 
mutandis .   
10.3.    With regard to the manner of remedying a deficiency 
that has occurred within the warranty period, the provisions of 
Paragraph 9.4. shall apply mutatis mutandis .  
10.4.   Unless a deficiency is remedied within a reasonable 
deadline, and the deficiency is of such nature that it does not 
prevent the Purchaser from using the subject of Delivery 
despite the deficiency, the Purchaser may claim the contractual 
penalty amounting to 5% of the value of the part of Delivery 
affected by the deficiency, and retain the Delivery, whereby 
Siemens shall be relieved from further obligations. In case the 
nature of the unremedied deficiency is such that as a result the 
Delivery lacks the feat ures required for its regular use or trade, 
the Purchaser may terminate the contract in the manner and 
with the consequences envisaged under Article  
 
10.5.   In the case of minor repair, the warranty shall be 
extended only for the period in which the Purchaser was not 
able to use the subject of Delivery, i.e. for the period from the 
moment of notification of deficiency to the moment the 
deficiency has been rem edied.  
10.6.   When the entire Delivery has been replaced with a new 
Delivery, or when substantial repairs have been made to the 
subject of Delivery due to its malfunctioning, the warranty 
period shall recommence from the moment of replacement or 
repair. I f a part of Delivery has been replaced or repaired, the 
warranty shall recommence for that part only.  In case of 
extension of warranty period due to replacement of the entire 
Delivery or due to replacement or repair of a part of Delivery, 
that extended wa rranty period shall in any case expire 18 
months after the receipt of the initial Delivery.  
  
  
11. Industrial Property Rights, Protection from Legal Claims  
  
11.1.   Unless agreed otherwise, the Delivery shall be free of any 
third party claims and rights in terms of protection of 
intellectual property in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, 
and of any other property related rights or claims. Should a third party make a claim against the Purchaser on any such legal 
grounds, and provided that the Purchaser uses the subject of 
Delivery in accordance with the contract, Siemens shall be 
obliged to find, at its own discretion, a solution to the claim of 
such third party, either by obtaining from the third party, at 
Siemens’ expense, the permission to exercise th e relevant right, 
or by modifying or replacing the Delivery so as to eliminate the 
infringement of third party rights. Should Siemens fail to free 
the subject of Delivery from such claims by third parties in the 
manner chosen by Siemens, the Purchaser shal l be entitled to 
terminate the contract in the manner and with the 
consequences envisaged under Article 15.  
11.2.   The above obligation of Siemens shall apply under the 
following conditions: (i) the Purchaser has immediately notified 
Siemens in writing of  any such claim by the third party; (ii) the 
Purchaser has not admitted the claim of the third party; (iii) the 
Purchaser has left to Siemens to take all the measures of 
protection from the claim by the third party, as well as to 
negotiate with the third p arty; and (iv) in the case the Purchaser 
has stopped using the subject of Delivery following the claim of 
the third party, the Purchaser has notified the third party that 
the suspension of use does not comprise or imply any 
admission of the third party’s c laim. 11.3.   Liability of Siemens 
shall be precluded if the infringement of third party rights 
occurred for any reason ascribable to the Purchaser, including 
all cases where the infringement occurred because Siemens 
abided by the Purchaser’s specification,  or because the subject 
of Delivery has been used in the manner that Siemens could not 
foresee, or because of modifications to the Delivery individually 
made by the Purchaser, as well as because of the use of the 
subject of Delivery together with other del iveries not 
originating from Siemens.  
11.4.   As regards notification of third party claims, the 
provisions governing notifications of the lack of conformity 
shall apply.  
11.5.   Liability of Siemens on the grounds referred to in this 
Article shall cease 1 2 months after the day of receipt of the 
Delivery, while the rights of the Purchaser shall expire 6 months 
after the day of notification of Siemens of the third party claim.  
  
12. Confidentiality; Data Protection; Subcontractors  
  
12.1.   Each party to the co ntract undertakes to maintain as 
confidential all the information concerning the other party or 
the scope of contract, unless such information has become 
publicly available or known to either party in another lawful 
manner.   
12.2.   The same shall apply to  personal data about employees. 
Each party is bound to protect such information from becoming 
available to any third parties, to ensure compliance with the 
Law on Personal Data Protection, and to oblige its employees 
performing duties in relation to the co ntract to the same level 
of confidentiality.  
12.3.   The Purchaser agrees that Siemens may submit the 
information about the Purchaser and/or the contract to other 
members of the SIEMENS Group.  
                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     v.1.0.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  6  
12.4.   The Purchaser agrees that the Siemens may assign the 
contract to any other member of the SIEMENS Group without 
special consent of the Purchaser.  
  
13. Asbestos  
  
13.1.  Purchaser is responsible for ensuring that the Site, 
including the ambient air and all parts of the plant which form 
the subject of Siemens’ work, are free of asbestos whereby the 
ambient air shall be deemed as free of asbestos, if the airborne 
asbestos fi ber concentration does not exceed 1000 fibers/m³ 
measured in accordance with a procedure acceptable to 
Siemens. Upon request by Siemens Purchaser shall certify these 
conditions. Siemens shall be entitled to perform corresponding 
measurements. All necessary  measurements shall be effected 
by a licensed and independent institute.  
13.2.  In case aforementioned parts or ambient air are not free 
of asbestos or so long as the absence of asbestos is not ensured, 
Siemens is entitled to suspend work in the affected a reas and 
to reject any delivery of asbestos -containing parts to its factory 
or workshop until it is certified by an licensed and independent 
institute that the Site and the parts are free of asbestos. 
Siemens may nevertheless agree to perform certain limit ed 
scope of work under defined protection measures to the extent 
determined by the Siemens.  
13.3.  Siemens shall be entitled to compensation for any 
additional cost incurred and to an equitable adjustment in 
schedule. Removal and final disposal of all asbestos shall be 
performed by a specialist constructor ordered by the Purchaser 
at Purchaser’s expense .  
  
14. Compliance with Export Control Regulations   
  
14.1.  If Purchaser transfers goods (hardware and/ or software 
and/ or technology as well as corresponding documentation, 
regardless of the mode of provision) delivered by Siemens or 
work and services (inc luding all kinds of technical support) 
performed by Siemens to a third party Purchaser shall comply 
with all applicable national and international (re -) export 
control regulations. In any event of such transfer of goods, 
works and services Purchaser shall comply with the (re -) export 
control regulations of the Republic of Serbia, of the European 
Union and of the United States of America.  
14.2.  Prior to any transfer of goods, works and services 
provided by Siemens to a third party Purchaser shall in 
particu lar check and guarantee by appropriate measures that   
-There will be no infringement of an embargo imposed by the 
Republic of Serbia, European Union, by the United States of 
America and/ or by the United Nations by such transfer, by 
brokering of contracts  concerning those goods, works and 
services or by provision of other economic resources in 
connection with those goods, works and services, also 
considering the limitations of domestic business and 
prohibitions of by passing those embargos;   
- Such goods,  works and services are not intended for use in 
connection with armaments, nuclear technology or weapons, if 
and to the extent such use is subject to prohibition or authorization, unless required authorization is provided;  - The 
regulations of all applica ble Sanctioned Party Lists of the 
Republic of Serbia, European Union and the United States of 
America concerning the trading with entities, persons and 
organizations listed therein are considered.  
14.3.  If required to enable authorities or Siemens to cond uct 
export control checks, Purchaser, upon request by Siemens, 
shall promptly provide Siemens with all information pertaining 
to the particular end customer, the particular destination and 
the particular intended use of goods, works and services 
provided b y Siemens, as well as any export control restrictions 
existing.  
14.4.  Purchaser shall indemnify and hold harmless Siemens 
from and against any claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost 
and damages arising out of or relating to any noncompliance 
with exp ort control regulations by Purchaser, and Purchaser 
shall compensate Siemens for all losses and  expenses resulting 
thereof.  
14.5.   Siemens shall not be obligated to fulfil this 
agreement if such fulfilment is prevented by any impediments 
arising out of n ational or international foreign trade or 
customs requirements or any embargoes or other sanctions.  
  
  
15. Termination of Contract; Consequences of Termination  
  
15.1.   The Purchaser may terminate the contract on the 
grounds of non -performance in the cases envisaged by the 
present General Conditions, provided that the Purchaser has 
first granted Siemens a reasonably extended deadline to 
remedy the breach of contract enti tling the Purchaser to 
termination thereof, and that the Purchaser has submitted a 
written notification of termination if the breach has not been 
remedied within such reasonable deadline.  
15.2.   In the case of termination of contract by the Purchaser, 
and in any other case, the liability of Siemens shall be limited to 
actual damage and shall not exceed the amount equivalent to 
30% of the value of Delivery. Liability for any lost profit, indirect 
or consequential damage is precluded. This limitation and/or 
preclusion shall not apply in cases of intentional damage or 
gross negligence on the part of Siemens.  
15.3.   In the case of termination of contract at Purchaser’s will 
(Article 629 of the Law of Obligations), the Purchaser is obliged 
to pay the agreed pri ce for the part of Delivery performed thus 
far, and for the part of Delivery that has been forwarded and 
not yet received or is in the final stage of being received, while 
for the remaining part of the Delivery the Purchaser is obliged 
to pay to Siemens th e agreed price reduced by the amount of 
costs not incurred by Siemens due to such termination.  
15.4.    Siemens may terminate the contract should the  
Purchaser fail to perform its obligations to a significant extent, 
upon prior notification and with all l egal consequences arising 
from such termination.  
15.5.   If the Delivery became impossible for any reason for 
which the Purchaser is responsible, or if it is suspended at 
Purchaser’s request (Paragraph 5.5.) for a period exceeding 90 
days, Siemens may term inate the contract and request 
                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     v.1.0.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  7  
payment of the amount to which Siemens would be entitled in 
the case of termination of contract at Purchaser’s will 
(Paragraph 15.3.).  
15.6.   The Purchaser’s claims envisaged by these General 
Conditions shall be the only cla ims against Siemens to which 
the Purchaser is entitled, except for such claims arising from 
binding provisions of the applicable law and those which the 
Purchaser may not waive.  
  
16. Applicable Law; Competent Court  
  
16.1.  All disputes arising from the cont ract shall be settled 
before the Commercial Court in Belgrade, and the law of the 
Republic of Serbia shall be applicable. The application of the 
United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International 
Sale of Goods is precluded.   