General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 1 od 11 Valid  from  30.4.  2024 
 
Contents:  
 
1. Applicability  
2. Offer,  Agreement  Conclusion  
3. Electronic  Commerce  
4. Exclusion  of Liability  for Offer  Perfection  
5. Prices  and Terms  of Payment  
6. Retention  of title 
7. Delivery  Term  and Delay  
8. Alteration  of the Delivery  
9. Customer’s  Duties  
10. EHS, Handling  with Asbestos  and Other Hazardous 
Materials  
11. Acceptance  
12. Transfer  of Risk 
13. Liability  for Defects  
14. Liability  for Damages  
15. Force  Majeure  
16. Assignment  of the Agreement,  obligations  and rights  
17. Software  
18. Intellectual  Property  Rights  
19. Suspension  of the Contract  
20. Termination  
21. Confidentiality  
22. Anti-Corruption  Clause  
23. Compliance  with Export  Control  Regulations  
24. Waste  Electrical  and Electronic  Equipment  
25. Governing  law, dispute  resolution  
26. Final  Provision  
 
1. Applicability  
 
1.1. These general terms and conditions of sale 
(hereinafter referred to as “General Terms”) for 
Siemens Energy, Trgovsko in storitveno podjetje, d. o. 
o., Ljubljana, apply for any and all sales of goods and 
mutatis mutandis for provision of services (hereinaft er 
referred to as: Deliveries) by Siemens Energy, d. o. o. 
(hereinafter referred to as “Supplier”) unless agreed 
otherwise in writing. Other conditions, including the 
general terms  and conditions of the ordering 
party/purchaser (hereinafter referred to as “Customer” 
shall be  valid only upon an express written consent of 
the Supplier.  
 
1.2. In case of sale to  consumers these General Terms 
shall apply to the extent not contradicting the laws on 
consumer protection.  
 
1.3. The term “Contract” shall within these General Terms 
mean the entire legal relation between the Supplier 
and the Customer, e. g. as defined by the agreement, 
eventual amendments to the agreement, these 
General Terms, etc. unless expressly agreed 
otherwise or indicated otherwise in the respective 
context.  
 
2. Offer,  Agreement  Conclusion  
 
2.1. The offers made by the Supplier are informative and 
non-binding unless the offer expressly states 
otherwise. Any statements included in the catalogues 
or promotional materials shall be non -binding unless 
otherwise agreed.  
 2.2. The agreements between the Customer and the  
Supplier shall be deemed concluded when the 
Supplier  receives  the Customer’s  order  and sends  a 
written  order confirmation or dispatches the ordered 
goods to the Customer.  
 
2.3. If the order refers to the general terms and conditions 
of the Customer or contains provisions deviating 
from these General Terms or conditions contained 
in the  offer, respectively, the goods shall be deemed 
as dispatched or the order confirmed, respectively, 
according to the latter  unless  expressly  stated  
otherwise in the order confirmation.  
 
3. Electronic  Commerce  
 
3.1. Electronic Commerce shall mean the conduct of 
business in the electronic format by using information 
and communication technology and/or electronic 
signature in legal transaction as defined by the law 
regulating electronic commerce. Electronic 
Commerce sha ll be equivalent to the classic (written) 
one provided that: 
a) permanent preservation of the electronic 
messages and their later use is ensured;  
b) information is retained as to enable the  
identification of the origin and the destination of 
an electronic message as well as the place and 
time when it was send or received;  
c) information is retained in the format in which it 
was generated, sent or received, or in a format 
that accurately represents the information 
generated, sent or received, respectively;  
d) technology and procedures used appropriately 
prevent any change or deletion of the data that 
could not be detected easily, or reliably ensure 
the inalterability of the message, respectively.  
 
3.2. An electronic message shall be deemed as sent 
when it enters the information system out of the 
control of the sender or the person who sent the 
electronic message upon his order on his behalf. An 
electronic message shall not be deemed as unsent 
only due to  a requested and missing delivery receipt, 
unless a prior express written agreement stipulates 
that a delivery receipt is required for a  valid delivery.  
The seat  of the sender  shall be deemed the place of 
sending of the electronic message even if the 
sende r’s information system is located elsewhere 
and such a place would otherwise be regarded as the 
place of dispatch.  
 
3.3. The electronic message shall be deemed as 
received when it enters the recipient’s information 
system. The seat of the recipient shall be deemed as 
the place of delivery even if the recipient’s 
information system is located elsewhere and such a 
place would otherwise be regarded as the place of 
reception.  
 
4. Exclusion  of Liability  for Offer  Perfection  
 
4.1. The Supplier shall not be responsible for perfection 
of offers  by the Customer  or third parties that  are 
based on offers by the Supplier or including them.  
General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 2 od 11  
4.2. The liability for fitness of the Deliveries for the 
concrete purpose of use shall be vested with the 
Customer. Unless  explicitly  agreed  otherwise  in 
writing,  or unless  the Customer serves the Supplier 
prior to order confirmation with technical 
documentation describing  the expected attributes of 
the Deliveries, respectively, the Supplier shall only be 
liable for fitness for ordinary use. 
 
5. Prices  and Terms  of Payment  
 
5.1. The price stated in the Contract shall be deemed the 
Contractual Price.  
 
5.2. The Contractual Price and the payment term shall be 
determined in the  offer and the  agreement, 
respectively.  
 
5.3. The Contractual Price is quoted in net value and does 
not include the VAT, customs duties nor any other 
eventual taxes or charges. The Customer shall 
reimburse the Supplier and/or his subcontractors all  
such costs if they are initially borne by the latter due 
to statutory requirements or other reasons.  
 
5.4. All prices include the delivery under the EXW parity 
(Incoterms 2010) but do not include the packing, 
freight, insurance  costs  or other  expenses  or 
manipulative  costs (such as e. g. costs of unloading, 
storing, third -party inspections, etc.).  
 
5.5. If the Supplier agrees to set -up or built -in the delivered 
goods any additional costs arising thereof such as e. 
g. traveling  expenses  or daily allowances  shall be 
borne  by the  Customer  in addition  to the Contractual  
Price,  unless expressly agreed otherwise.  
 
5.6. The prices are based on anticipated costs of the  
Supplier at the time the agreement is executed. If the 
costs increase significantly by the time of the delivery, 
the Supplier shall be entitled to request a price 
adjustment.  
5.7.  
Unless otherwise agreed,  all payments shall  be made 
to the named Supplier’s bank account, in the agreed 
currency, pursuant to agreed terms of payment upon 
30 (thirty) days from the issuance of invoice in full  
amount of the invoice,  without any deductions (e. g. 
bank costs). If the deductions cannot be avoided, the 
Customer shall increase the amount in the bank order 
accordingly to ensure the Supplier receives the same 
amount as he would have if there were no deductions.  
 
5.8. If a discount or bonus is agreed upon, the Customer 
shall only be entitled thereto provided the payment is 
made in time and in the agreed amount.  
 
5.9. If the delivery in multiple parts is agreed upon (partial 
deliveries) each partial delivery shall be paid upon 
respective partial invoice , due upon 30 (thirty) days 
from the issuance of each invoice , unless otherwise 
agreed.  
 
5.10.  The payment shall be deemed executed on the day 
when the Supplier is able to dispose of it.  
 
5.11.  In case of delay of the Customer  with the payment or with other fulfillment of obligations from this or other 
mutual business transactions, the Supplier has the 
right,  without affecting any of its other rights, to 
postpone the fulfillment of its obligations  out of this or 
other mutual business relationships until the 
settlement of respective payment and / or other 
obligations, and to use the right to adequately 
postpone the Supplies. In case of late payment the 
Supplier is entitled to request the statutory interest for 
late payment.  
 
5.12.  The Customer  shall not be entitled  to withhold  
payments on account of claims against the Supplier 
based on liability for defects or other legal grounds.  
 
5.13.  For the purpose of securing the payment of agreed 
price, the Customer is obliged to deliver to the 
Supplier the payment instruments pursuant to the 
referenced priorities:  
           1. Bank guarantee ( upon first call, irrevocable, 
unconditional, issued by first class bank institution, 
accepted by the Supplier); or if this is not possible and 
if the Supplier accepts,  
          2. Blank debenture (signed and certified by the notary 
public for the Customer); or  
          3. Blank bill of exchange (without protest) . 
 
5.14.  In case of total advance payment of the Supplies by 
the Customer, the application of Article 5. 13. is 
excluded.  
 
5.15.  The Supplier  may at any time offer a replacement 
guarantee or other instruments of securing the 
obligation for the replacement of existing guarantee 
(e.g. for the advance payment, performance and/or 
warranty guarantee) (hereinafter: the “replacement 
guarantee”), subst antially in the form of the existing 
guarantee, to be issued by another guarantor. If such 
a replacement guarantee provides similar or better 
security to ensure the performance of the obligations 
that are secured by the existing guarantee (having 
regard to  the creditworthiness of the guarantor, place 
of issuance and the terms of the guarantee) the 
Customer  shall accept such replacement guarantee in 
exchange for the existing guarantee already delivered 
by the Supplier . 
 
5.16.  Upon the delivery of the replacement guarantee to the 
Customer , the Customer  undertakes not to, and shall 
have no right to, make any claims under the existing, 
previously delivered, guarantee anymore. The 
Customer undertakes to return the existing guarantee 
to the Supplier for release and enable the Supplier  to 
release the obligations under existing guarantees, 
immediately following the delivery of the replacement 
guarantee, and if the return is not possible or the 
following shall be necessary together with  the return 
of the existing guarantee, to deliver and sign the letter, 
declaration or any other necessary document (e.g. 
release letter) which releases the Supplier  of any 
obligations under the existing guarantees, and which 
is reasonably acceptable to the contracting parties.  
 
6. Retention  of title 
6.1. The goods to be delivered and their respective parts 
shall remain  the property  of the Supplier  until paid in 
full. 
 
 
General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 3 od 11 6.2. Upon Supplier’s request, the Customer shall  
immediately  upon  the execution  of the agreement  
and at his own cost notarise  his signature and return 
the agreement with a notarised signature promptly to 
the Supplier. The Customer authorises the Supplier 
to enter the retention of title to public evidences at 
the expense  of the Customer. While the retention of 
title is in force, the Customer shall maintain the goods 
appropriately, insure them adequately against usual 
risks and take all reasonably measures to prevent 
damage on the  property of the Supplier.  
 
6.3. Unless  otherwise  agreed,  the Customer  is not 
entitled  to dispose of the said goods.  
 
6.4. If the retention of title is justifiably asserted (Article 
19.3.), the Customer shall submit the object of the 
delivery to the Supplier and enable unrestricted 
access thereto and the removal thereof, respectively.  
 
7. Delivery  Term  and Delay  
 
7.1. The delivery term shall be stipulated in the offer or 
the agreement.  
 
7.2. The delivery  term shall commence  to run on the date 
the latest of the following occurs:  
a) the Supplier  confirms  the Customer’s  order;  
b) the Customer fulfils all technical, sales or other 
conditions required and requisite for a 
successful fulfilment of the Supplier’s duties;  
c) the Supplier receives either the advance 
payment due before the Deliveries are made 
available to the Customer, or the respective 
guarantee in case of such agreement.  
 
7.3. The delivery term does not  commence to run or, if  it 
has already begun, it shall be suspended if:  
a) the Customer does not provide the requisite 
information, documents, deeds, permits or other 
documentation he is required to provide;  
b) the Customer does not fulfil all technical, sales 
or other conditions, required and requisite for a 
successful fulfilment of the Supplier’s duties 
(Chapter 9.), including the conditions from the 
Article 10.1. ; 
c) Force  Majeure  case  (Chapter  15.). 
 
The Supplier shall also be entitled to an extension of 
time if the Customer’s conduct from this Article 
significantly impedes the performance of the Order. 
The Supplier shall in any case from this Article be 
entitled to compensation of costs incurred there with. 
 
7.4. If the Supplier is due to his own default in delay with 
the delivery for  more  than two weeks,  the Customer  
shall be entitled to liquidated damages for the 
delayed partial delivery in the height of 0,5 % of the 
price of the respective partial delivery for each 
completed week of delay, however not more than 5 
% of the price of the respective partial delivery in 
total.  
 
7.5. The liquidated damages from the previous Article shall 
be the sole and only remedy for the delay of the  
Supplier.  
  
8. Alteration  of the Delivery  
 
8.1. If the purpose of the Contract cannot be fulfilled in the 
agreed extent or in the agreed manner due to a 
change in legislation, technical or other standards, 
requests by the state or local authorities or a holder of 
a public authority, case law or use of a dministrative 
law that occurred after the execution of the 
agreement, the Supplier shall alter the delivery only 
upon a prior agreement with the Customer on the 
change of the deliver conditions such as e. g. delivery 
terms, prices, etc. If the performance of the Order is 
impeded due to the aforementioned reasons, the 
Supplier shall have the right to an appropriate 
extension of time and remuneration of additional costs 
incurred therewith.  
 
8.2. The Supplier reserves the right to employ  
subcontractors.  
 
9. Customer’s  Duties  
 
9.1. The Customer shall ensure all conditions on his part 
for a successful and undisturbed performance of the 
Order, in particular he shall obtain all necessary 
permissions and  consents  for acceptance,  
commissioning  and use of the supplied Deliveries.  
 
9.2. For every building -in, erection, commissioning  or 
performance of tests on the Deliveries outside of the 
premises of the Supplier (hereinafter referred to as 
“Works at the site”) the Customer shall timely ensure 
at his own expense:  
a) unrestricted  access  of the Supplier’s  staff to the  
site and the infrastructure;  
b) support  regarding obtaining  visas,  work  permits  
and performance of customs procedures for the 
equipment and staff of the Supplier and his 
subcontractors, respectively;  
c) that all preliminary diggings, construction and  
similar works (e. g. scaffolding and lifts erection) 
requisite for the Supplier  to be able to begin with 
the performance of services have been finished;  
d) energy,  water,  heating  and illumination;  
e) suitable dry and lockable rooms for storing 
materials, tools, etc., suitable recreation and 
working areas equipped with a telephone line and 
internet connection, adequate bathroom facilities;  
f) compliance with all necessary health and safety 
measures and property -protection measures to 
protect the health, safety and property of the 
Supplier and his subcontractors.  
 
9.3. Before the beginning of the Works at the site, the 
Customer shall at his own expense:  
a) submit to the Supplier all necessary information 
on location  of electrical  and gas installations,  
plumbing, other installations, static and 
subterranean conditions at the site;  
b) provide the agreed materials and equipment 
requisite for the beginning of the Works at the site 
and for a coordinated and uninterrupted 
performance of the works.  
9.4. The Customer shall at his own expense provide 
appropriate containers at the site for storing 
dangerous and special waste as defined by valid 
laws and regulations as well as ensure appropriate 
General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 4 od 11 storage and removal of such waste.  
9.5. If successive partial deliveries are agreed upon, the 
Customer shall at the Supplier’s request regularly 
confirm the progress and conclusion of the works in 
writing.  
 
9.6. The Customer shall reimburse the Supplier all costs 
incurred due to the delays with Works at the site 
attributable to the Supplier by the latter due to 
defaults  
 
10. EHS, Handling  with Asbestos  and Other Hazardous 
Materials  
 
10.1.  Whenever the Supplier is supposed to provide fitting, 
assembly or other similar services at the site, the 
Customer shall ensure that the works sites or 
construction sites, including the air and all parts of 
the equipment where the services are taking place, 
are free of asbestos. Else, the Supplier is entitled to 
defer the beginning of the works or suspend them 
until the Customer ensures compliance with th e said 
conditions.  It shall be deemed that the air is free of 
asbestos if the concentration in the air does not 
exceed 1000 fibres per m3. Upon the Supplier’s 
request, the Customer shall be able to prove 
compliance with these standards with adequate  
measur ements  that may be as well ordered  by the 
Customer.  
 
10.2.  The measurements shall be as a rule performed by 
a duly authorised  and independent institute 
according to the rules acceptable for the Supplier.  
 
10.3.  The removal of asbestos shall only be performed by 
a duly qualified company. The costs of such removal 
shall be borne by the Customer.  
 
10.4.  The Supplier reserves the right to employ any safety 
measures and perform partially or in whole any 
agreed works even though the conditions from the 
Article 10.1.  are not fulfilled.  
 
10.5.  If the Supplier  discovers hazardous materials 
(including asbestos), environmentally hazardous 
substances, geological or geothermal conditions, 
archaeological findings or any other local 
environmental conditions which have an adverse 
effect on the Supplies, execution of w orks or services 
by the Supplier , the Customer  shall be liable for any 
required remediation and shall also reimburse the 
Supplier for any reasonable additional costs and 
expenses. The Customer  shall, at its expense, provide 
containers comply ing with all legal and regulatory 
requirements and shall handle, store and dispose of 
hazardous waste in accordance with the applicable 
laws.  
 
10.6.  The Supplier  obliges to comply with all applicable laws 
and regulations regarding safety at work, including the 
global Supplier’s  EHS standards, as well as to enforce 
the principles of the „Zero Harm Culture“ program. The 
Supplier  shall not be obliged to provide the Supplies or 
execute any works or service on site in  an unhealthy 
or dangerous surroundings, which is not in accordance 
with the applicable health and safety requirements.  
 
10.7.  The Supplier shall comply with the Customer’s site 
rules and regulations when performing Supplies on site, provided that such rules are in accordance with 
the applicable laws, and that the Customer informed 
the Supplier, in writing, of all relevant site rules and 
regulations in force at the premises within a 
reasonable period of time prior to performance of the 
Supplies on site. 
 
11. Acceptance  
 
11.1.  For Deliveries where a formal acceptance is agreed 
(e. g. technical acceptance), the Customer shall 
carry out  all requisite factory tests, preliminary 
running and other tests and accept the Deliveries 
upon their completion or partial completion. Unless 
otherwise agreed, the acceptance shall be 
completed within one week after  the Supplier has 
notified the Customer that the  Deliveries are ready 
for acceptance.  
 
11.2.  For Deliveries that do not require a formal 
acceptance, the Customer shall accept the Delivery 
as soon as the goods are delivered and services 
rendered,  respectively, unless otherwise agreed in 
the contract.  
For the avoidance of the doubt, the Customer  is not 
allowed to condition its acceptance and takeover of 
the Deliveries , or any part thereof, with the 
acceptance and takeover of the Deliveries  by any 
other third party, unless otherwise explicitly agreed.  
 
11.3.  If the Customer does not accept the Deliveries as set 
forth in the previous  two Articles,  the Deliveries or  
partial Deliveries shall be deemed as accepted 
unless the Customer was unable to accept the 
Deliveries due to a justifiable reason that he has 
promptly communicated  the Supplier. The Supplier 
is in any case entitled to the  reimbursement  of all 
costs  and damages  incurred  due to a non -
acceptance.  
 
11.4.  Any Deliveries shall be deemed as accepted when its 
commercial use commences or if the acceptance tests 
(if applicable) have not been carried out within one 
week after scheduled dates due to reasons not 
attributable to the Supplier.  
 
11.5.  The Customer shall only be entitled to reject the 
acceptance  in case of  substantial defects  that hinder  
the operation of the delivery and/or commissioning of 
the delivery , i.e. the Customer shall be obliged to take 
over and accept the object of Deliveries even when it 
has minor deficiencies or minor damages which do not 
disturb the normal use and / or use which satisfies the 
security demands. Burden of proof that deficiencies or 
damages are not minor rests on the Customer.  
 
11.6.  The Customer shall accept and pay for partial  
Deliveries. The Customer shall also accept the 
delivery even if the Supplier failed to provide all 
agreed documents, provided such documents are not 
requisite for economic exploitation of the delivery or it 
was expressly agreed otherwise (e. g. user’s manu al 
in Slovenian).  
 
11.7.  The Customer shall duly inspect the delivery prior to 
acceptance and notify the Supplier of any defects in 
writing. The notification of patent defects shall be 
communicated immediately after the acceptance. The 
Notification of latent defects shall be commu nicated 
General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 5 od 11 immediately after identified. The Customer shall be 
responsible for collecting evidence on defects and 
eventual damages and submit them to the Supplier.  
 
11.8.  When the Customer is required to perform additional 
operation tests or preliminary running after the 
acceptance has been complete, any unsuccessful 
performance thereof shall not have any impact on the 
already completed acceptance.  
 
11.9.  All acceptance costs (e. g. expenses of examinations, 
tests, permits or acceptance procedure) shall be 
borne by the Customer.  
 
12. Transfer  of Risk 
 
12.1.  Unless otherwise agreed or in the case Incoterms 
terms of delivery that do  not define the moment of risk 
transfer apply,  the risk of accidental  loss of or damage  
shall pass from the Supplier to the Customer:  
a) for deliveries of goods upon the delivery to the 
first carrier;  
b) for deliveries that  involve services  after the 
services are completed and accepted according 
to Articles 11.1. , 11.3.  and 11.4,  respectively.  
 
13. Liability  for Defects  
 
13.1.  The Supplier  shall be liable for  rectification of defects 
on supplied goods and services if they do not have the 
attributes necessary for the customary use or 
attributes and features that were expressly agreed 
upon (hereinafter referred to as Defects), provided 
that such Defects are cause d by reasons existent 
before the acceptance.  
 
13.2.  The liability shall be excluded  for Defects that cannot 
be attributed to the Supplier or are caused by reasons 
out of the Supplier’s  control, such as e. g.:  
a) poorly executed preliminary works, construction 
or assembly works;  
b) defects  of the materials  supplied  by the Customer;  
c) insignificant  deviations  from the specifications;  
d) normal wear and tear after the risk has been 
transferred;  
e) defects caused by inappropriate operation, 
excessive, inappropriate, incorrect or negligent 
use of Deliveries by the Customer or third 
parties;  
f) defects caused through use of inappropriate  
working materials;  
g) defects  caused  by unauthorised  interference  of 
third parties;  
h) defects  caused  by failure  to comply  with 
instructions or recommendations of the Supplier 
contained in operation and service manuals;  
i) software  defects  that cannot  be reproduced;  
j) defects caused by third persons or force 
majeure  (e. g. atmospheric discharge, surge, 
exposition to chemical agents, etc.).  
 
13.3.  If the supplied goods or services are manufactured 
and/or performed according to the construction data, 
plans, models or other specifications provided by the 
Customer, or materials provided by the Customer, or 
upon instructions by the Customer, the Supplie r shall 
only be liable for the quality of the execution of works 
itself.   
13.4.  The Supplier’s liability for works performed by third 
parties not related to the Supplier shall be excluded 
in all cases.  
 
13.5.  Unless otherwise agreed, the liability period for 
Defects shall be 6 months and shall begin to run with 
the acceptance or the partial acceptance of the 
Deliveries (Chapter 11.). 
 
13.6.  The liability  for Defects  ceases  prematurely  in case:  
a) repairs and/or alterations to the Deliveries are 
performed by the Customer or a third party 
without  a prior written consent of the Supplier;  
b) the Customer does not notify the Defect to the 
Supplier pursuant to Article 11.7;  
c) the Customer does not undertake all reasonable 
measures to avoid the resulting damages;  
d) the Customer does not enable the Supplier to  
rectify the Defects.  
 
13.7.  The Supplier shall rectify the Defect which was duly 
and timely notified pursuant to the Article 11.7.  at his 
own discretion either by repair, substitution or re - 
performance of the defect works.  
 
13.8.  The Customer shall allow the Supplier a reasonable 
period and ensure appropriate conditions for the 
rectification of Defects. The Customer shall furnish 
the defect parts and/or services to the Supplier for 
rectification at his own cost and responsibility a t the 
place in the Republic of Slovenia designated by the 
Supplier, unless explicitly agreed otherwise in 
writing. The expenses of and risk during the 
disassembly and assembly shall be borne by the 
Customer.  
 
13.9.  If the Defect  is not rectified within the agreed period, 
the Customer  shall be entitled  to entrust  the 
rectification  to a third party at the expense of the 
Supplier subject to a prior written notice.  
13.10.  If the Customer engages in Defect rectification but 
later ascertains there is no Defect, the respective 
costs of such rectification attempt shall be borne by 
the Customer.  
 
13.11.  The liability period (Article 13.5.) shall commence to 
run anew for every substituted or repaired part. 
However,  the liability of the Supplier shall end in any 
case after twice the initial liability period, calculated 
from the date  of the initial acceptance, has passed.  
 
13.12.  Unless otherwise agreed, the remedies mentioned in  
this Chapter  shall be the  exclusive remedies for 
defects. Any other liability other than that mentioned 
in this Chapter, including liability on any other legal 
grounding, shall be excluded. The Customer is not 
entitled to reimbursement of costs or further 
compensation  incurred in connection with asserting 
liability claims and/or enforcing his rights.  
 
14. Liability  for Damages  
 
14.1.  The Supplier’s liability for  damages  shall be limited  to 
20 % of the Contractual Price for every single event 
and to a maximum of 50 % of the Contractual Price for 
all events aggregately. In case of a frame agreement 
covering multiple deliveries in a longer period based 
General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 6 od 11 on individual orders, the Contractual Price shall mean 
the price of each individual delivery . 
 
14.2.  The liability for any reflex damages, damages for lost 
expectations (reliance damages), inability of use, loss 
of revenue, loss of data, production cut -out, reduction 
of sales, damages due to liquidated damages and 
damages paid to third parties or the prov ision of other 
benefits to third -parties upon their claims, or other 
incidental or indirect damages, shall be excluded.  
 
14.3.  The limitations from previous Articles shall not apply 
in case the damages are incurred due to gross 
negligence or intent of the Supplier. The liability for 
any consequences caused by ordinary negligence 
(culpa levis) shall be, however, excluded.  
 
14.4.  All liability limitations stipulated in the Contract in 
favour of  the Supplier  shall also apply  to his 
subcontractors  and subsuppliers.  
 
14.5.  The Customer shall ensure that the liability of the 
Supplier to other business partners of the Customer 
does not exceed the boundaries as set forth in the 
Contract. The Customer shall indemnify the Supplier 
from any claims by his other business partners 
exceeding these limits.  
 
14.6.  The Customer shall not be entitled to claim damages 
after the liability for defects period has expired or after 
that lapse of statutory limitation (prescription) period, 
whichever comes first.  
 
15. Force  Majeure  
 
15.1.  Force Majeure shall mean any unforeseeable event 
occurring after the execution of the agreement that  
could not be expected, prevented or avoided and  
causes  a delay  in performance  of the Contract  or 
the inability to fulfil it. Examples of Force Majeure shall 
include e. g. natural disasters and catastrophes such 
as epidemics, nuclear accidents, fire, floods, 
hurricanes, earthquakes; actions or omissions of civil 
or military authorities such as changes of l egislation, 
limitations of use or transactions with foreign 
currencies, revocation or abolishment of import or 
export allowances, declaration of state of emergency, 
imposing of quotas or restrictions on use of materials 
or labour force employment; war or m obilisation, civil 
war or uprising, riots, sabotages or revolutions; strikes 
or lockouts; disturbances in production at the Supplier 
or his subsuppliers resulting from Force Majeure that 
cause delays in delivery of key raw materials and/or 
components.  
 
Examples of Force Majeure also include embargos or 
any other trade sanctions imposed by the European 
Union or the United States of America (which, upon 
sole discretion of the Supplier , may expose S iemens 
Energy  or any of its affiliates to sanctions, penalties or 
other actions of governmental authorities detrimental 
to the Supplier or any of its Affiliates), attacks on 
Siemens Energy  IT systems (such as virus attacks, 
hacker attacks, etc.), actions by the Customer  or any 
third party or any other events, whic h could not be 
foreseen or influenced by the Supplier.  
 
          For the avoidance of doubt, and notwithstanding the 
aforementioned circumstances, the Supplier  shall be entitled to a reasonable adjustment of th e Contract’s 
terms and conditions, scope, price, delivery times and 
schedule in the event of delays and costs (and any 
related consequences) directly or indirectly caused by 
an uncertain political and security situation in the 
world which effects are diffic ult to foresee for the 
Parties at the time of contract signing and which can, 
directly and indirectl y,  affect the execution of th e 
contract, including, but not limited to, the availability of 
certain equipment, commodities, metals, and 
materials as well as the availability of transportation 
routes, means and services and supply of gas.  
 
The above referenced circumstances justify th e         
postponement of Supplies deadlines also when 
occurred with SIEMENS ENERGY’s suppliers, sub -
contractors and / or sub -deliverers.  
 
15.2.  As long as Force Majeure event continues to exist, 
the affected party shall not be deemed to be in delay 
with fulfilment of its obligations impacted by Force 
Majeure nor shall be liable for any damages arising 
thereof.  
 
15.3.  The party affected by Force Majeure shall promptly  
notify the opposite party of occurrence and cease  
thereof and upon request provide available evidence 
of occurrence,  duration,  extent  and consequences  of 
Force Majeure. Otherwise, the affected party shall 
not be entitled to the benefits granted in this Chapter. 
The contractually agreed due dates shall be 
extended in writing considering the duration of Force 
Majeure.  
 
15.4.  If a Force Majeure event continues for a cumulative 
period of more than six (6) months, either party shall 
have the right to withdraw from the agreement.  
 
16. Assignment  of the Agreement,  obligations  and 
rights  
 
16.1.  Neither party shall be entitled to assign the 
agreement  or any respective parts thereof, individual 
rights nor obligations  to a third party  without  a prior 
written  consent of the opposite party.  
 
16.2.  The foregoing does not apply to the Supplier’s right 
of assignment of any individual rights or obligations 
or the whole agreement to any of the members of 
Siemens Energy Corporation subject to a prior 
written notice to the Supplier.  Also, the Supplier shall 
further be entitled to assign the whole Contract or a 
part of it to any third party, in the event of a sale or 
other transfer of the business or a part of the 
business of Siemens Energy to a third party.  
 
17. Software  
 
17.1.  The Customer shall have a non -exclusive right of use 
of software that constitutes an integral part of the 
delivery (hereinafter referred to as “Software”). Any 
use of the said Software shall be limited to the use 
together with  the delivered goods, in an unmodified 
format, only for  the intended purpose and in the 
manner specified in the technical documentation (if 
provided). The assignment  of the aforementioned 
rights to  third parties  shall only be allowed together 
with the transfer of respective goods that contain the 
Software.  
General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 7 od 11  
17.2.  The Customer  has no right to use the original code 
of software supplied by the Supplier , unless 
otherwise explicitly stated in the agreement . 
 
18. Intellectual  Property  Rights  
 
18.1.  The Supplier  reserves  all intellectual  property  rights  (i. 
e. copyrights and industrial property rights) on 
Software,  digital services,  delivered  goods  and the 
entire  documentation  submitted to  the Customer  
such  as plans,  sketches,  technical documentation, 
drafts, samples, catalogues, prospects, photos, etc. 
(hereinafter referred to as  “Documentation”).  
 
18.2.  Reproduction,  modification and further  distribution of 
the offer and project Documentation as well as 
software or disclosure thereof to third parties without 
the consent of the Supplier shall not be permitted.  
 
18.3.  The Customer shall only be entitled to use 
the Documentation unmodified, for the purpose and to 
the extent necessary for operation and maintenance 
of the Deliveries. Any other use shall only be allowed 
upon a prior written consent of the Supplier. In 
particular, the Customer shall not be entitled to 
reproduce or imitate  the Deliveries or parts thereof for 
purposes not directly linked to the fulfilment of the 
contractual obligations , modify, adapt, dismantle, alter 
or reverse engineer the Software, digital s ervices or 
applications of the Supplier, and shall not in any 
manner attempt to derive the source code or 
underlying ideas or algorithm of any of the Supplier’s 
applications and/or third party application or any 
portion thereof and shall ensure that third parties will 
not do the same.  
 
18.4.  The assignment of the aforementioned rights to third 
parties  shall only be allowed  together  with the transfer  
of respective goods and subject to the consent of the 
Supplier.  
 
18.5.  In the event a third party asserts legitimate claims 
against the Customer because of an infringement of 
Intellectual Property Rights by the Deliveries, the 
Supplier shall at its own discretion and at his own 
costs either:  
a) obtain  the right to use the relevant  Intellectual 
Property Rights;  
b) modify the  delivery  so as not to infringe  the 
relevant Intellectual Property Rights, or  
c) replace  the infringing  part of the delivery.  
 
If the Supplier estimates that none of the  
aforementioned solutions is possible, the Supplier 
shall take the deliveries back and reimburse the 
Customer  the price paid.  
 
18.6.  The Supplier's obligations under the previous Article 
are subject to the following conditions:  
a) The Customer  has immediately  notified  the 
Supplier in writing of the claims asserted by the 
third party and has furnished the Supplier with a 
copy of each communication, notice or other 
document exchanged in relation to the alleged 
infringement;  
b) The Customer does not acknowledge the 
infringement and provides the Supplier with authorisation,  information  and assistance  
necessary to defend or settle such claim.  
c) The Supplier is given exclusive control of the 
defence (including the right to select the counsel), 
and the exclusive right to use or refrain from using 
any legal remedies or settle such claims at its own 
discretion.  
d) If the Customer stops using the Deliveries or any 
relevant  portion  thereof  to reduce  the damage  or 
for other important reasons, he notifies the third 
party  in writing that the cessation of use shall not 
be construed as an acknowledgment of an 
Intellectual Property Rights infringement.  
 
18.7.  Any claims of the Customer shall be excluded if the 
responsibility for the Intellectual Property Rights 
infringement can be attributed to the Customer, its 
agents,  employees   or  contractors,  e. g. if 
the infringement was caused by using the Deliveries 
in a manner not foreseeable by the Supplier, by a 
modification of the Deliveries by the Customer or by 
using the Deliveries together with other equipment.  
 
18.8.  Any other or further rights and remedies of the  
Customer regarding the infringement of Intellectual 
Property Rights not mentioned in this Chapter shall 
be excluded.  
 
18.9.  The warranties contained herein related to cyber 
security are the Supplier's sole and exclusive 
warranties as to the Supplier's products and services 
and are subject to the limits of liability within the 
contract. Supplier makes no other warranties, 
express or implied, including, without limitation, 
warranties of merchantability or fitness for a 
particular purpose, course of dealing and usage of 
trade.  
 
18.10.  Supplier makes no warranty that the services or 
supplies related to cyber security will protect against 
all possible threats (including, without limitation, any 
circumstance or event with the potential to adversely 
impact Customer’s plants, systems, machin es and 
networks (including the Supplies) via unauthorized 
access, destruction, disclosure and/or modification of 
information, denial of service attacks or comparable 
scenarios and other threats). Customer 
acknowledges that, given the inherent risks in the 
field of industrial control system security, Supplier 
does not represent, warrant nor guarantee that 
Customer will be able to achieve a durable and 
overall security of the service objects, systems or 
facilities or that Customer’s industrial control system 
environment (or service objects, etc.) will not be 
affected by cyber threats, even if all suggested 
measures are implemented. Customer will remain 
solely responsible for the security of the service 
objects, systems, netw orks and facilities.  
 
18.11.  The Supplier recommends that the Customer 
integrates the services, supplies and technical 
interfaces into a holistic, state -of-the-art industrial 
security concept. Customer acknowledges that any 
security tools and products, including the supplies, 
may fail , may be unable to prevent a particular attack, 
may not be compatible with all systems and devices, 
and/or may experience bugs or errors. No product 
and/or service can protect against all threats or 
General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 8 od 11 operate unfailingly in all circumstances. Although the 
Supplier may provide supplies and/or services 
intended to increase the security of Customer's 
service objects, programs, systems and facilities, 
Customer shall at all times remain solely responsible 
for the security of such service objectives, programs, 
networks, systems and facilities. No representations 
or warranties are made by the Supplier with respect 
thereto.  
 
18.12.  Supplier does not warrant the services proposed in 
this document will prevent future successful cyber -
attacks or detect all security vulnerabilities in the 
Customer's systems and Customer acknowledges 
the same.  
 
19. Suspension  of the Contract  
 
19.1.  In case the Customer is late with the payment or 
fulfilment of other obligations from this Contract, the 
Supplier shall be entitled to:  
 
a) Defer fulfilment of his obligations until the due 
payments are made or other obligations fulfilled 
(especially those critical for the Supplier’s 
performance); the Supplier is entitled to charge 
the Customer with any expenses or damages 
incurred thereby.  
b) Request a corresponding extension of the 
agreed deadlines.  
 
c) Charge the Customer the statutory interest for 
late payment from the day the debt was due until 
it is settled.  
d) Request an immediate payment of the entire 
outstanding debt (due and undue) if the 
Customer  is in delay  with his payments  and 
does  not settle  his accounts in the 15 -day grace 
period after the  written notice.  
 
19.2.  In addition to the reasons stated in the previous 
Article, the Supplier shall also be entitled to suspend 
the performance of the Contract if it may be 
reasonably presumed that the payments will not be 
made in time or in  full due to reasons  that occurred  
after the execution  of the agreement and the 
Customer does not provide adequate insurance 
thereto.  
 
19.3.  If the Supplier suspends the performance of the  
Contract according to Articles 19.1.  or 19.2.  or if the 
Customer suspends the performance of the Contract  
due to reasons not attributable to the Supplier, the 
Customer shall pay for all completed (partial) 
deliveries and/or  services  and reimburse  the Supplier  
all expenses incurred due to the suspension, e. g. 
payments to the subcontractors, costs of waiting 
time, etc. In the case of the Contract suspension, the 
Customer shall be obliged to return any already 
delivered good and/or services at the request of the 
Supp lier. Any such returns, asserting the retention of 
title or other similar acts shall not mean the  
termination of the agreement unless expressly  
stated by the Supplier.  
 
20. Termination  
 
20.1.  If a unilateral right to terminate the Contract for convenience without stating the reason is agreed 
upon and no termination period is stipulated, the 
termination period shall be 60 days.  
 
20.2.  Either party may unilaterally withdraw from the 
Contract with immediate effect in case of:  
a) A winding -up, compulsory settlement or 
bankruptcy procedure is instituted or proposed 
against the opposite party.  
b) A Force Majeure event that continues for a 
cumulative period of more than six (6) months.  
 
20.3.  The Customer may unilaterally terminate the contract 
on the grounds of non -performance in the cases 
envisaged by the present General Conditions  and 
under the conditions set herein. In addition to reasons 
listed in Article 20.2., the Customer may also 
unilaterally withdraw from the Contract with  an 
immediate  effect  in case  the Supplier  is in delay with 
the delivery solely due to his fault, and that such delay 
represents a material breach of the Contract, 
however, only upon the condition he had notified the 
Supplier of the intended withdrawal and granted him 
an appropriate extension perio d, provided the 
Supplier has not fulfilled his obligations even in the 
additional grace period.  
20.4.  If liquidated damages for delay in delivery are agreed 
upon, the Customer shall only be entitled to withdraw 
from the Contract after the maximum amount of 
liquidated damages has been reached, and a 
reasonable  
additional period of time for provision of the Deliveries  
has been granted to the Supplier and has expired, and 
the Supplier within that time has not provided a 
commitment to  pay further liquidated damages 
exceeding the before -mentioned maximum liquidated 
damages in respect of the continuing period of delay.  
 
20.5.  The Customer shall be entitled to withdraw from the 
Contract without granting the Supplier an additional 
grace  period  if it is obviously  evident  from the conduct  
of the latter or from the circumstances that in spite of 
an additional grace period, he will not or will not be 
able to fulfil his contractual obligations.  
 
20.6.  In addition to reasons listed in Article 20.2. , the 
Supplier may also unilaterally withdraw  from the 
Contract with an immediate effect if:  
a) The Customer becomes associated with or 
merges with any company that is an immediate 
competitor of the Supplier or such competitor 
gains a controlling share in the Customer or 
controlling rights with respect to the Customer in 
any other  way. 
b) The Customer  in delay  does  not fulfil his 
contractual obligations in spite of the 15 -day 
grace period after the notice of delay (Article 
19.1., sub -paragraph d), unless an adequate 
insurance securing the performance of 
obligations is provided.  
c) Legal changes within the company of the 
Customer occurred  that could affect the 
implementation of the contract . 
d) The blockade  of the bank  account  of the Customer.  
e) the Customer breaches the Contract, and does 
not remedy the breach within the reasonable 
period after notification by the Supplier.  
 
General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 9 od 11 20.7.  The withdrawal  notice  shall be sent to the opposite  
party with registered mail. If a unilateral right to 
terminate the Contract for convenience without stating 
the reason is agreed upon, the termination period 
shall commence on the day the mail is sent off.  
 
20.8.  In the event of the cessation of the validity of the 
Contract, irrespective of the cause, the already 
performed or partially performed deliveries or 
services, including those not yet accepted and 
preparation works accomplished by the Supplier, shall 
be cha rged as agreed hereunder. Instead of the due 
payment, the Supplier is entitled to request the return 
of the delivered goods at his discretion.  
 
20.9.  In case of withdrawal pursuant to the Article 20.6., the 
Supplier  shall be entitled  to restitution  of all 
incurred  costs, including those incurred with the 
withdrawal itself (e. g. leaving of the working site, 
costs and damages of eventual subcontractors, costs 
of the premature end of usage of fittings and 
equipment, etc.). Apart from the restitution of costs, 
the Supplier shall be entitled to compensation for the 
entire damages incu rred due to the withdrawal, to wit 
according to the valid laws.  
 
21. Confidentiality  
 
21.1.  “Confidential Information” shall mean any 
information and data, including, but not limited to, 
any kind of business, commercial or technical 
information and data disclosed by the Supplier to the 
Customer, especially e.  
g. information on the Supplier, offer, agreement, 
copy, abstract, draft, template, prototype, know -how, 
experience or parts of such data (hereinafter referred 
to a “Confidential Information”).  
 
21.2.  All Confidential Information shall be used by the 
Customer exclusively for the purpose of the Contract 
fulfilment and disclosed only to those employees who 
reasonably need to be acquainted with such 
information in order to be able to fulfil the Contract. 
The Customer shall protect Confidential Information 
against unauthorised access or use by third parties.  
 
21.3.  Confidential Information shall be kept confidential 
with the diligence of a good manager regardless if 
they were obtained in connection with the order or 
from another source, unless they are publicly known.  
 
21.4.  No Confidential Information shall be disclosed to 
third parties or used for other purposes than Contract 
fulfilment without a prior written notice of the opposite 
party.  
 
21.5.  If the disclosure of Confidential Information to third 
parties  or their use for a purpose  other  than the 
Contract fulfilment is granted or required in 
connection with the performance of the order, the 
disclosure shall only be made if the receiver (i. e. the 
third party) is bound to confidentiality to an extent not 
less stringent than the obligations imposed i n this 
Chapter (Chapter 21.). 
 
21.6.  The confidentiality principles set forth in Chapter 21. 
shall analogously also apply to personal data of the 
Supplier or third persons and to confidential information pursuant to the laws governing banking 
and stocks business if such information is obtained 
by the  Customer within the scope of the order. The 
Customer shall ensure all such data is handled 
pursuant to the laws on personal data and banking 
data protection.  
 
21.7.  Notwithstanding other provision of this Chapter, the 
Customer shall be entitled to disclose or forward 
Confidential Information if so required by any ruling 
of a governmental or regulatory authority or court or 
by mandatory law. Such disclosure or forwardi ng 
shall be allowed provided that written notice thereof 
is given to the Supplier without undue delay and 
provided all reasonable efforts are used to assure 
Confidential Information will be treated confidentially. 
Confidential Information disclosed pursuan t to this 
Article must be labelled as "Confidential" or with any 
other comparable designation.  
 
21.8.  The Supplier shall, as a rule, process the data on the 
Customer from individual business events 
automatically by employing information technology 
and only in connection with fulfilling of the respective 
Order, i. e. especially for administrative and 
accoun ting purposes. Due to logistical reasons, the 
Supplier shall be entitled  to store the data on servers 
of other affiliated  companies.  
 
21.9.  The Supplier shall be entitled to share the data on the 
Customer obtained within the course of conducting 
business  or orders performance  with other  companies  
of the Siemens Energy corporation for the following 
purposes: a) information exchange (e. g. purchase 
pooling), b) reporting for statistical purposes, c) risk 
management.  
 
21.10.  The Supplier  as well as other  companies  of the 
Siemens Energy  corporation  shall have  the right to 
dispatch  to the Customer either on his own or by other 
companies of  the Siemens Energy corporation 
information on  Siemens Energy’s portfolio and 
services, namely in writing or via electronic mail, and 
contact him using any method  of communication.  The 
Supplier  shall cease  with any such communication 
upon a written request by the Customer.  
 
21.11.  The rights and obligations concerning Confidential 
Information as set forth herein shall survive the validity  
of the Contract between the Supplier and the 
Customer, to wit regardless of the reason for 
termination, and shall remain valid as long as there is 
commercially viable interest for confidentiality of the 
data. The Customer shall be liable to the Supplier for 
any b reach of obligations mentioned within this 
Chapter according to general rules on liability for 
damages.  
 
21.12.  The Customer shall comply with the statutory and 
other applicable provisions relating to protection of 
personal data. The Customer is obliged to create the 
prerequisites required by law (e.g. to obtain 
declaration of consents) to enable the Supplier to 
perform the Deliveries , supplies,  works  or services 
without any breach of law. The Customer is advised to 
take appropriate measures – as far as possible – to 
prevent access of the Supplier to personal data or 
trade secrets of the Customer while providing the 
Deliveries . In the event that it cannot be prevented that 
General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 10 od 11 the Supplier is granted access to personal data of the 
Customer, the Customer is obliged to inform the 
Supplier in due time before the Deliveries  are 
performed. The Customer and the Supplier shall then 
agree on the actions to be taken.  
 
22. Anti-Corruption  Clause  
 
22.1.  If the negotiations or the Contract itself can be linked 
to any form of corruptive conduct pursuant to the  
Slovenian anti -corruption legislation that has or could 
have influenced the conduct of the parties to the 
Contract, the Contract shall be deemed null and void.  
 
22.2.  In case corruptive conduct can be linked to the  
execution or supervision of the respective Contract, 
the innocent party may withdraw from the Contract 
before  its expiration with an immediate effect and 
without any further obligations, including liability for 
damages.  
 
 
23. Compliance  with Export  Control  Regulations  
 
23.1.  The Supplier shall not be obligated to fulfil this 
agreement if such fulfilment is prevented by any 
impediments arising out of national or international 
foreign trade or customs requirements or any  
embargoes or other sanctions.  
23.2.  If the Customer transfers goods (hardware and/ or 
software and/ or technology as well as corresponding 
documentation, regardless of the mode of provision) 
delivered by the Supplier, or their parts, or works and 
services (including all kinds of technical su pport) 
performed by the Supplier to a third party, the 
Customer shall comply with all applicable national 
and international (re -) export control regulations. In 
any event of such transfer of goods, works and 
services the Customer shall comply with the (re -) 
export control regulations of the Federal Republic of 
Germany, of the European Union and of the United 
States of America.  
 
23.3.  Prior to any transfer of goods, works and services 
provided by the Supplier to a third party, the 
Customer shall in particular check and guarantee by 
appropriate measures that:  
a) There will be no infringement of an embargo 
imposed by the European Union, by the United 
States of America and/ or by the United Nations 
by such transfer, by brokering of contracts 
concerning those goods, works and services or 
by provision of other economi c resources in 
connection with those goods, works and 
services, also considering the limitations of 
domestic business and prohibitions of by -
passing those embargoes;  
b) Such goods, works and services are not 
intended  for use in connection with armaments, 
nuclear technology or weapons, if and to the 
extent such use is subject to prohibition or 
authorisation, unless required authorisation is 
provided;  
c) The regulations of all applicable Sanctioned 
Party Lists of the European Union and the 
United States of America concerning the trading 
with entities, persons and organizations listed 
therein are considered.   
23.4.  If required to enable authorities or the Supplier to 
conduct export control checks, the Customer, upon 
request by the Supplier, shall promptly provide the 
latter with all information pertaining to the particular 
end customer, the particular destination and  the 
particular intended use of goods, works and services 
provided by the Supplier, as well as any export 
control restrictions existing.  
 
23.5.  The Customer shall indemnify and hold harmless the 
Supplier from  and against  any claim,  proceeding,  
action, fine, loss, cost and damages arising out of or 
relating to any noncompliance with export control 
regulations by  the Customer, and the Customer shall 
compensate the Supplier for all losses and expenses 
resulting thereof.  
 
23.6.  The Supplier  hereby prohibits to the Customer , and 
the Customer  agrees, not to re -export and/or 
forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia or for use in 
Russia any goods (including, inter alia, hardware 
and/or software and/or technology and related 
documentation, regardless of the mode of provision) 
sold, supplied, tr ansferred or exported by the 
Supplier  to the Customer  under th e Contract/this 
General Terms . 
 
23.7.  The S upplier shall be entitled to unilaterally terminate 
this Agreement by written notice with immediate 
effect in the event of a breach of the obligation 
pursuant to the previous subclause 2 3.6. of this 
General Terms by the Customer. Upon termination, 
the Customer shall pay to the Supplier all costs and 
damages incurred by the Supplier from such 
termination. In any case, the Cus tomer shall pay the 
Supplier liquidated damages in the amount of 20% of 
the purchase price / delivered  Supplies value, in case 
the Customer has not fulfilled the obligation from 
subclause 23.6. of this General Terms.  
 
23.8.  Notwiths tanding the rights stipulated in the previous 
subclause , the Customer  shall indemnify and hold 
harmless the Supplier  in full from and against any 
claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and 
damage asserted by public authorities or other third 
parties against the Supplier arising out of or relating 
to a breach by the Customer  of the obligation under 
subclause  23.6. of this General Terms  and the 
Customer shall compensate the Supplier for all 
losses and expenses incurred resulting thereof.  
 
24. Waste  Electrical  and Electronic  Equipment  
 
24.1.  Any costs incurred through the collection, recycling 
or removal of recycling waste of electrical and 
electronic equipment (hereinafter referred to as “EE 
equipment”) not categorised as household 
equipment shall be borne by the Customer. In case 
that the Cu stomer is not the end user of the EE 
equipment, he shall ensure that this obligation is 
passed on to the end user.  
 
24.2.  The Customer  shall upon  request  by the Supplier  
submit all information and documentation required 
by the Supplier in order to comply with the 
regulations on EE equipment.  
 
 
General  Terms  and Conditions  of Sale for Siemens  Energy,  Trgovsko  in storitveno  podjetje,  d. o. o.  
Page 11 od 11  
24.3.  The Customer shall indemnify the Supplier of all 
costs and damages incurred due to non -adherence 
to the provision of this Chapter (Chapter 24). 
 
25. Governing  Law and Dispute  Resolution  
 
25.1.  The Contract shall be governed by the laws of the 
Republic of Slovenia. The application of the UN 
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of 
Goods (CISG) from 11 April 1980 shall be excluded.  
 
25.2.  Any disputes arising in connection with this Contract 
shall be settled through negotiation in good faith. 
Every Party to the Contract shall be entitled to 
request that members of the highest management on 
either side participate in the negotiations.  
 
25.3.  If an amicable solution is not possible, disputes shall 
be settled by the competent court in Ljubljana. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Supplier shall be 
entitled to bring an action and enforce his claims 
against the Customer before the competent court at 
the registered seat of the Customer or any other 
court competent according to the rules valid at the 
Customer’s registered seat.  
 
25.4.  The Customer  is responsible for any change in costs, 
delays, or modified performance resulting from 
changes to laws, codes, standards, codes of 
practice, court rulings, guidances or decisions made 
by public authorities, if these changes occur after the 
date of signing  of the Contract. In such case, the 
Supplier  shall also be entitled to an adjustment of the 
agreement, including inter alia an adjustment of the 
contract price to reflect any additional costs to be 
incurred by the Supplier , the time schedules a nd 
scope of Supplies, as necessary in order to  
compensate for any adverse effects or additional 
requirements deriving from such changes . 
 
25.5.  If engineering, or any other standards and codes are 
listed in the technical specifications (if those are 
agreed), the Supplier  shall comply only with those 
valid and the content thereof at the date of 
agreement. In the event that, at any time, mandatory 
local codes or standards in the country where the 
Deliveries  or supplies  are executed stipulate more 
stringent or onerous requirements with regard to the 
Deliveries  or supplies , the Customer  is obliged to 
timely inform the Supplier  accordingly, whereas the 
subclause 25.4 of this clause shall apply.  
 
26. Final Provision  
 
26.1.  All changes and/or amendments to the Contract shall 
only be valid if concluded in writing  and only if 
confirmed by the authorized representatives of both 
the Supplier and the Customer in writing . 
 
Oral agreements between the Supplier  and the 
Customer  shall not be valid, unless confirmed in 
writing by authorized representatives of both the 
Supplier and the Customer.  
 
26.2.  If any of the provisions of these General Terms and 
Conditions of Sale for Siemens Energy, agreements 
and / or other additional arrangements concluded in 
writing between the Supplier and the Customer become unlawful, invalid or unenforceable in any 
way pursuant to the applicable law, this shall not 
affect the legality, validity or enforceability of other 
provisions of these General Terms and Conditions of 
Sale for Siemens Energy, agreements and / or ot her 
additional arrangements concluded in writing 
between  the parties. The Supplier and the Customer 
shall replace any such unlawful, invalid or 
unenforceable provision with the provision which 
content shall be adjusted to the valid legal regulation .  
 
  (last page)  