 
 
 
 
 
We design, develop, manufacture and market our products, solutions and services to energize 
society and engage in innovation to address global energy megatrends, digitalization, 
decarbonization and demand growth.   
Throughout all stages we focus on making our customers successful by being the trusted partner 
and deliver on our promises as outlined in our following Quality Principles.  
 
1. Customer focus in all we do  
• We interact with our internal and external customers in a proactive and timely way to understa nd 
   their requirements and expectations.  
 
2. Personal commitment to quality  
• We know and are qualiﬁed to meet our quality standards so we can fulﬁll and even exceed  
   customer expectations in everything we do.  
• We empower every employee to raise any issue that does not reflect our quality principles.  
 
3. Pro-active continuous improvement  
• We improve through learning by seeking out ideas,  understanding others’ needs, and  
   communicating openly.  
• We actively apply processes for quality -related risk and opportunity management.  
 
4. Management system that supports sustainable business  success  
• We address business -speciﬁc legislation, standards, and regulations, and ensure compliance in all  
   business quality aspects in an eﬃcient way.  
 
We perform regular rev iews of our quality performance, objectives , and management system 
effectiveness . Verification is an important part of our continuous improvement processes,  
employee competency, successful supplier development , and engagement , as well as compliance 
with regulations.  
We are committed to work in line with our Quality Policy , ensuring that it is widely communicated 
and reflected within our business -specific management systems.  
 
 
Aleš Prešern                                                                                          Jurij  Pritekelj  
Director                                                                                                Financ e Director  
 Quality Policy  
Siemens Energy d.o.o. , Slovenia  
