SIEMENS ENERGY SDN. BHD. 
[Company No. 201901031998 )
CONDITIONS OF PURCHASE 
Version:  2.2: dated 27th May 2024
1. Definitions
1.1 “Affiliate” means with respect to a specific legal entity, any other legal
entity that directly or indirectly:-
(a)  is controlled by such specific legal entity;
(b)  controls the specific legal entity; or
(c)  is controlled by the same legal entity which directly or indirectly
controls the specific legal entity.
1.2 “Conditions” means these terms and conditions for the purchase of
Goods and/or Services which are incorporated into and form part of the 
Purchase Order.
1.3 “Contract” means the contract between the Supplier and the Customer for the 
supply of the Goods and/or Services to the Customer and such expression 
shall include the Purchase Order and the Conditions.
1.4 “Customer” means the Siemens Energy company which places the order by
way of Purchase Order.
1.5 “Delivery Date” shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 4.1.
1.6 “Goods” means the products, goods or items which are the subject of 
the Contract and which may comprise, include or relate to Software. 1.7
“Issued  Material”  includes  but  is  not  limited  to  samples,  drawings, 
standard sheets, printing-copies, theories, models, profiles, tools, molds 
or other tooling, material, equipment, goods or articles or any property supplied 
or issued by the Customer to the Supplier to be used in fulfilment of the 
Supplier’s obligations.
1.8 “Party” means the Supplier or the Customer and “Parties” means both of them. 
1.9 “Purchase Order” means the purchase order (in the Customer’s
prevailing standard form) or any written authorization requesting the Supplier 
to furnish Goods and/or the Services to the Customer, signed by an authorised 
representative of Customer and the documents (if any) incorporated by 
express reference on the face of the Purchase Order and/or the documents (if 
any) referred to in Sections 2 and 3, together with these Conditions and the 
“Siemens Energy Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third Party 
Intermediaries” as referred to in Section 13.
1.9 “Services” means work and/or other services provided by the Supplier which 
is the subject of the Contract and which may comprise, include or relate to 
Software.
1.10   “Software”  means  the  software  and  firmware  items  which  are 
comprised,  included  in  or  relate  to  the  Goods  and/or  Services 
(including  all  its  updates  thereof)  and  the  Software’s  related
documentation.
1.11 “Supplier” means the person, firm or company referred to on the face of the
Purchase Order with whom the Contract is made by the Customer. 
1.12  “Supplier  Operations”  means  all  assets,  processes  and  systems
(including  information  systems),  data  (including  Customer  data), 
personnel, sites, and suppliers used or processed by Supplier from time to 
time in the performance of this Contract.
1.13  Any reference in the Contract to a statutory provision shall include that 
provision and any regulations made pursuant thereto which may from time to 
time be modified or re-enacted in accordance with the laws of Malaysia. For 
the avoidance of doubt, such modifications or re- enactment of statutory 
provisions shall apply to the Contract prior to completion of the Contract, even 
if such changes in law only come into force after the execution of the Contract.
1.14 The headings in these Conditions are inserted for convenience only and shall 
be ignored in construing these Conditions. Unless the context otherwise 
requires, words (including words defined in the Contract) denoting the 
singular number only shall include the plural and vice versa. The words 
"written" and "in writing" include any means of visible reproduction.
2. Purchase Order, Confirmation, Acceptance & Variations
2.1 The Purchase Order placed by the Customer shall only be considered
accepted and a Contract concluded between the Parties if the Supplier has 
confirmed acceptance of the Purchase Order in writing within five (5) days of 
receipt of the Purchase Order.
For the avoidance of doubt, these Conditions shall apply to and are expressly 
incorporated into the Contract and no varying terms and conditions stated by 
Supplier in its written acceptance of the Purchase Order, including without 
limitation, those contained in any sale order or quotation or invoice or any other 
document of Supplier shall become part of the Contract and be binding upon 
the Customer, unless it is specifically agreed to by an authorised 
representative of the Customer in writing.
2.2 Acceptance of the Purchase Order shall be deemed to be acceptance of the
Conditions.
2.3 The Purchase Order placed by the Customer may be modified or cancelled
by Customer at any time prior to its receipt of written acceptance by 
Supplier.
2.4 Without prejudice to Section 22.1, the Customer may cancel the 
Purchase Order if the Supplier has not confirmed acceptance of thePurchase  Order  in  writing  within  five  (5)  days  of  receipt  of  the 
Purchase Order.
2.5 If the Supplier’s confirmation varies from the Purchase Order, the 
Customer shall be bound thereby only if it agrees to such variation in 
writing. For the avoidance of doubt, neither the acceptance of delivery 
of the Goods or Services nor payments made shall constitute 
approval or agreement of any such variation.
2.6 Any alterations, amendments or additions to the Purchase Ordershall only 
be effective if the Customer accepts such alterations, amendments or 
additions in writing.
2.7 In the event the Supplier commences works on the Goods and/or the 
Services ordered (prior to acceptance of the Purchase Order), the 
Supplier shall be deemed to have accepted the Purchase Order 
notwithstanding the Supplier’s failure to confirm acceptance of the same.
2.8 If, at any time during the course of the Contract, the Customer wishes to 
vary the Goods and/or the Services ordered, it shall notify the Supplier. 
Upon receipt of such notification, the Supplier shall within fourteen (14) 
days provide a written statement of the amount of the following by which 
such variation would increase or decrease:
(a) the dates, timescales or milestones; and 
(b) the charges;
which  have  been  agreed  in  the  Contract,  and  such  other 
information as the Customer may reasonably require.
2.9 The implementation of any variation to the Goods and/or Services shall 
be subject to the prior written agreement of the Parties. The Supplier
shall  not  undertake  any  such  variations  unless 
specifically instructed to do so by the Customer.
2.10 The Supplier shall not, without the prior written consent of the Customer,
make any process or design changes affecting the deliveries.
3.  Price & Payment
3.1 All prices shall be as stated in the Contract. Unless otherwise
stated, the prices are fixed and include delivery and all other charges,
which include, but is not limited to, the costs of transport, insurance and 
packing. All prices shall also be inclusive of all taxes (including but not 
limited to value added tax, sales tax, service tax or similar tax, business 
tax, withholding tax, duties, levy) imposed by any taxing authority 
inside or outside of Malaysia. The prices shall not be adjusted save 
as provided for in these Conditions.
3.2 The Customer shall have no other or further liability to the 
Supplier with respect to any tax, duty, levy or like imposition for which 
the Supplier may be liable as a result of the supply of the Goods and/or 
Services.
3.3 Should the prices be subject to withholding taxes, Customer shall be 
entitled to deduct the amount of withholding tax required by the law of 
Malaysia from the payments to the Supplier and pay it to the tax 
authorities in the name and on behalf of the Supplier.
If there is double tax treaty concluded between Malaysia and the 
Supplier’s country which provides for exemption or reduction of the 
withholding tax amount, Customer shall deduct the maximum amount of 
withholding tax according to the applicable double tax treaty from the 
payments to the Supplier, provided that prior to the payments to the 
Supplier, the Supplier shall provide the Customer with the certificate 
of residence evidencing its tax resident status in the country of the 
Supplier.
3.4    Pursuant to Section 82C of the Income Tax Act 1967, the Supplier                                                    
shall issue Customer with only validated e-Invoices for the purchase of 
Goods and/or Services. Upon  complete  delivery  of  the  Goods  and/or  
Services  in accordance  with  Section  4  herein  and  due  acceptance  
by Customer in writing, the Supplier shall send to the Customer a detailed In-
voice stating the reference number for the Purchase Order of the Goods 
and/or Services, the number of each individual item, if applicable. Inso-
far as any relevant details are omitted, invoices shall not be payable. Copies of in-
voices shall be marked as duplicates.
3.5 Unless otherwise stated in the Purchase Order or agreed in writing by the 
Customer, payment term shall be ninety (90) days and shall commence 
upon:-
 (a) the delivery of Goods or completion of Services in accordance to the
Contract; and
 (b) Customer’s receipt of a correctly issued invoice, as per Section
3.4 hereinabove.
 Insofar as the Supplier is required to provide material testing, test records
or quality control documents or any other documentation, the aforesaid 
shall be a part of the requirements of the completeness of delivery of Goods 
or performance of Services. The Customer shall be entitled to set off or 
withhold any payments to a reasonable extent
Page 1 of 7
SIEMENS ENERGY SDN. BHD. 
[Company No. 201901031998)
CONDITIONS OF PURCHASE 
Version: 2.2: dated 27th  May 2024
for reasons of deficiency. The period for payment shall commence afterthe 
complete rectification of any deficiency.
3.6 Payment by Customer does not constitute an acknowledgement that the 
corresponding delivery of Goods or performances of Services were provided in 
accordance with the Contract, nor that the Customer has accepted the Goods 
or Services supplied as complete.
3.7 The Customer shall be entitled to set off any payment against any other sums
owed to the Customer by the Supplier.
4.  Delivery and Delay
4.1    The  Goods  and/or  Services  shall  be  delivered  on  the  dates  (the
“Delivery  Date”)  and  at  the  rates  and  locations  specified  in  the 
Contract. Delivery may be direct to the Customer’s end user if so specified 
on the Purchase Order. The Customer may delay or alter such dates, rates 
and destinations upon giving the Supplier reasonable notice in writing of such 
alterations.
4.2 Any shipment terms quoted in relation to the delivery of the Goods shall be in 
accordance to Incoterms® 2010 or its latest version as from time to time 
modified, supplemented or revised.
4.3    For  the  purposes  of  establishing  the  timeliness  of  delivery  or
rectification, the relevant point in time:-
  (a)    for Goods:
      -   shall be the date of receipt at the place of receipt designated
by the Customer under the Contract;
  (b)  for  Services  (including  those  involving  installation,
commissioning or rectification services):
      -  shall  be  the  date  of  acceptance  of  the  completion  of  the
Services.
4.4    Time is of the essence in respect of the Contract Delivery Date.  Failure
to meet the Delivery Date specified in the Contract shall constitute a breach of 
the Contract. Where any delay in delivery of Goods or performance of 
Services or rectification can be anticipated, the Customer shall be 
notified immediately and its decision sought.
4.5 If only a portion of the Goods or a part of the Services can be delivered on the 
Delivery Date, the Supplier shall deliver the available Goods or Services unless 
otherwise directed by the Customer. Partial deliveries shall be deemed late 
deliveries and be considered completed only when all the Goods or Services 
are duly delivered.
4.6 If the Supplier fails to deliver the Goods or Services in accordance with the 
Contract, or fails to deliver by the Delivery Date, then the Supplier shall pay to 
the Customer liquidated damages calculated at the rate of 0.3% of the price of 
the respective Purchase Order for each day of delay starting from the date 
of default until the date the Goods or Services are completely delivered or 
performed by the Supplier, as the case may be. The Customer may, but shall 
not be bound to, deduct such liquidated damages, whether in whole or in part, 
from any moneys due from the Customer to the Supplier under any Purchase 
Order.
4.7 Notwithstanding the above, if the Supplier fails to deliver in accordance with the 
Contract, or if the Supplier notifies the Customer of a prospective 
failure to deliver by the Delivery Date, the Customer reserves the right to 
cancel the Contract or any part thereof without charge or liability and reserves 
all rights in damages and otherwise arising including but not limited to the 
right to purchase substitute Goods and/or Services elsewhere and to hold the 
Supplier liable for any loss, expense or additional cost incurred thereby.
5. Title and Risk, Dispatch and Place of Performance
5.1   Without prejudice to any right of rejection to which the Customer may
be entitled under Sections 4, 5 and 6, risk in and title to the Goods and/or 
Services shall pass to the Customer:-
-  upon  receipt  by  the  Customer  at  the  destination  specified  in  thePurchase
Order (for delivery of Goods); or
- upon  written acceptance  by  the  Customer  (for  deliveries  involving
installation, commissioning and for Services); 
as the case may be.
5.2    The Supplier warrants that it has good title to the Goods the Supplier is
selling to the Customer. The Supplier acknowledges that the Goods may be
on-sold to an end user by the Customer and warrants that the Customer will 
be able to supply the end user with good title.
5.3 Sections 5.1 and 5.2 hereinabove are without prejudice to Section 7 in respect
of any Software.
5.4 Any Issued Material will be supplied or used at the Supplier’s risk whilst in its
possession.
5.5 Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the costs of delivery and packaging shall be
borne by the Supplier. For pricing ex works or ex warehouse of the Supplier, 
transport shall in each case be at the lowest possible cost, insofar as the 
Customer has not requested a particular method of de- livery. Any 
supplementary costs arising from non-conformity with the transport 
requirements shall be borne by the Supplier. Where the transport is 
quoted free to the recipient, the Customer may also determine the 
method  of  transportation.  Any  supplementary  costsarising  from  the  need  to  meet  the  delivery  deadline  by  way  of
expedited delivery shall be borne by the Supplier.
5.6    The Supplier shall ensure that all Goods are marked in accordance with
the  provisions  of  the  Contract  and  the  instructions  of  the Customer.
Goods shall be packed so as to reach places of delivery undamaged and in
good condition.  The Supplier shall provide in respect of each
consignment of Goods, a packaging note detailing the Purchase Order
number, description, code number (if any) and the quantity of Goods
consigned. The information on the packaging note must correspond with
the Purchase Order.
5.7    Each delivery shall include a packing note or delivery note with details  of
the  contents  as  well  as  the  complete  order  number. Notice of dispatch
shall be provided immediately with the same information.
5.8    In the case whereby the Customer and the Supplier agree that the
Supplier orders the transport of deliveries containing dangerous goods
for account of the Customer, the Supplier is responsible to transfer the
necessary legally required dangerous goods data to the freight forwarder
nominated by the Customer when placing the transport order.  The
Supplier is in these cases also responsible for  packing,  marking,
labelling  etc.  in  compliance  with  the regulation relevant to the
mode(s) of transport used.
5.9    If  the  Customer  informs  the  Supplier  that  following  the  initial transport
another transport with a different mode of transport is scheduled, the
Supplier shall also comply with the relevant legal requirements
concerning  dangerous  goods  and  required
information with regard to such on-going transport.
5.10    The  Supplier  shall  be  liable  for  any  expenses  and/or  damages incurred
by  the  Customer  due  to  any  breach  of  the  Supplier’s obligations under
this Section 5.
6.   Inspection & Rejection
6.1    The  Supplier  represents  and warrants that it  has  inspected  and
tested the Goods for compliance with the Contract prior to delivery and
shall,  if  requested, supply  the Customer  with  certificates  of origin  and/or
testing.  Such  certificates  must  state  the  Purchase Order number together
with any item numbers.
6.2    If the Goods and/or Services do not comply with the Contract, the
Customer shall within a reasonable time give notice of rejection to the
Supplier.
  Without prejudice to any of its other rights, the Customer may at its
discretion  require  the  Supplier  to  comply  with  the  Contract  by
expeditiously  replacing  or  repairing  as  appropriate  any  rejected Goods
and  rectifying  or  remedying  any  rejected  Services.  The rejected Goods
shall be returned to the Supplier at its own risk and expense.  All  Services
found  to  be  defective,  non-conforming  or failing to meet any of the
Supplier's representations and warranties shall  be  completely  re-
performed  at  the  Supplier's  cost  and expense.  In  urgent cases  or
if  the  Supplier  is  in  default  with  its obligation to repair defects, the
Customer shall be entitled at the Supplier's cost and expense to take the
necessary steps to repair such defects itself or to entrust a third party to do
so. The Customer will  inform  the  Supplier  before  such  steps  are
taken.  If  prior notification is not possible, steps necessary to avert
damage may in  urgent  cases  be  taken  without  any  notification  and  in
these cases, the Customer shall notify the Supplier as soon as possible
afterwards.   The  Supplier's  representations  and  warranty
obligations  remain  unaffected,  except where  defects  are
attributable to the steps taken by the Customer or a third party.
6.3    Unless  otherwise  specified  or  approved  by  the  Customer,  the Supplier
s h a l l   r e m o v e   t h e   C u s t o m e r ' s   n a m e   a n d   a n y   o f   t h e Customer's
trademarks,  trade  names,  insignia,  part  numbers, symbols or
decorative designs from all Goods rejected or returned by the Customer
or not sold or delivered to the Customer.
6.4    Any  reference  to  “Supplier”  in  this  section  includes  any
subcontractor of the Supplier permitted under Section 10. Where the
Supplier  repairs  or  replaces  Goods  or  provides  remedial Services
under these sections, these Conditions shall apply to the repaired or
replaced Goods or the remedial or remedied Services.
6.5     The  Customer  reserves  the  right  (but  shall  not  be  obliged)  to inspect
or  test  the  Goods  or  the  Services  at  any  stage  before delivery and the
Supplier shall give rights of access to premises and such  facilities  as  the
Customer  may reasonably  require  for such inspection.
6.6     Notwithstanding whether any acceptance, testing and inspection is done
by the Customer or end user, no such act or omission by the Customer
or end user shall discharge the duty and obligation of the Supplier to carry
out its obligation in accordance with the Contract.
Page 2 of 7
SIEMENS ENERGY SDN. BHD. 
[Company No. 201901031998
CONDITIONS OF PURCHASE 
Version: 2.2: dated 27th  May 2024
7.          Rights of Use
7.1 The Supplier hereby grants the Customer the following non-exclusive,
transferable, worldwide and perpetual rights:
7.1.1  to use the Goods and Services including related documentation,
to  integrate  them  into  other  products  and  to  distribute  them 
worldwide;
7.1.2  to use or allow others to use Software in connection with the
installation, launch, testing and operation of the Software;
7.1.3 to sublicense the right of use under Section 7.1.2 above to its Affiliate(s),
other distributors and end customers;
7.1.4 to license to its Affiliate(s) and other distributors the right to sublicense
the right of use under Section 7.1.2 above to end customers;
7.1.5 to use the Software for integration into other products and to copy the
Software, or to allow its Affiliate(s) or other distributors to use and copy 
the Software;
7.1.6 to distribute, sell, hire out, lease, make ready for download or make 
publicly available the Software, e.g. in the context of Application 
Service Providing or in other contexts, and to copy the Software to the 
extent required, provided always that the numberof  licenses  being  used 
at any one time does not exceed the number of licenses purchased;
7.1.7 to sublicense the right of use under Section 7.1.6 above to its Affiliate(s)
and other distributors.
7.2 In addition to the rights granted in Section 7.1 above, the Customer, its
Affiliate(s) and other distributors are authorized to allow end customers 
to transfer Software licenses.
7.3 All sublicenses granted by the Customer must contain appropriate protection 
for the intellectual property rights of the Supplier in the Software. All 
sublicenses must contain any contractual provisions used by the Customer to 
protect its own intellectual property rights.
7.4 The Supplier shall inform the Customer - at the latest at the time the Purchase 
Order is confirmed - whether the Goods and Services to be delivered contain 
“Open Source Component".
In the context of this provision “Open Source Component” means anysoftware, 
hardware or other information that is provided royalty-free by the respective 
licensor to any user on the basis of a license or anotheragreement with the right 
to modify and/or to distribute. By means of example and without limitation, 
Open License Terms include the following licenses: the GNU General 
Public License (GPL), the GNU Lesser GPL (LGPL), the BSD License, the 
Apache License or the MIT License. Should the Goods and Services 
delivered by the Supplier contain Open Source Component, the Supplier shall 
comply with all applicable open source license terms and shall grant all those 
rights to the Customer and provide all information which the Customer needs in 
order to comply with the applicable license terms. In particular, the Supplier 
must deliver to the Customer at the latest at the time the Purchase Order 
is confirmed the following:
-The complete source code of the relevant Open Source Component,
including  scripts  and  information  regarding  its  generating 
environment  insofar  as  the  applicable  open  source  conditions 
require this;
- A schedule of all open source components used, indicating the relevant 
license, its version and including a copy of the complete text of such license 
and including a reference to copyright and/or authorship. Such 
schedule shall be of an understandable structure and contain a table of 
contents;
-A written declaration that through the intended use of the Open Source 
Component neither the Goods of the Supplier nor the Goods of the Customer 
will be subject to a “Copyleft Effect“. In the context of this provision, “Copyleft 
Effect“ means that the provisions of the open source license require that 
certain of the Supplier’s Goods, as well as any Goods derived from these, 
may only be distributed further in accordance with the terms of the open 
source license e.g. only if the source code is disclosed. In the event that 
any open source licenses used by the Supplier are subject to a “Copyleft 
Effect” as defined above, then the Customer shall be entitled to cancel 
the Purchase Order within two (2) weeks of receipt of such information.
Should the Supplier not indicate until after receipt of the Purchase Order that 
its Goods and Services contain Open Source Component, then the Customer 
is entitled to cancel the Purchase Order within 14 days of receipt of this 
information and provision of all the information contained in the above 
paragraph.
7.5    If  the  Goods  and/or  Services  include  Software,  the  Supplier 
acknowledges that the Customer may be on-selling the same to its customers
or end users and represents and warrants that it has good title to license the 
Software.
7.6 The Supplier permits the Customer to market and resell the Software and 
any accompanying hardware either alone or as part of a package.7.7    The  Supplier  shall  provide  the  Customer  with  such  technical advice,
assistance,  data  and  documentation,  including  source code where
necessary, to enable the Customer to maintain the Software if it so
wishes.
8. Warranty & Representation
8.1    Without prejudice to the Customer’s rights under the Contract and
at law, the  Supplier represents and warrants the Goods and/or
Services against defects for the following period:-
  (a) for Goods:
-   the longer of either (i) the Supplier’s normal warranty period;
or (ii) a period of three (3) years (or as otherwise stated in the
Contract);
 (b) for Services:
      -  the longer of either (i) the Supplier’s normal warranty period;
or (ii) a period of one (1) year (or as otherwise stated in the
Contract).
8.2       (a)  Subject to Section 8.2(b), the warranty period begins to run from the
date of the transfer of risk (see Section 5.1).
(b)  Upon delivery to locations where the Customer is operating outside
its  premises,  the  warranty  period  begins  with  the acceptance by
the end customer, in no case later than one year after transfer of
risk.
(c)  In the case of defective Goods, this period shall be calculated from
the date of receipt by the Customer of the delivery of the defective
Goods repaired or replaced under Sections 6 and 8 herein.
8.3   The warranty period for deficiencies in title is five years, insofar as no
statutory provisions provide longer periods.
8.4   If deficiencies are identified before or during the transfer of risk or during
the warranty period provided for in Section 8.1 or 8.3, the Supplier  must
at  its  own  expense  and  at  the  discretion  of  the Customer either repair
the deficiency or provide reperformance of Services or replacement of
Goods (=rectification). This provision also applies to deliveries subject to
inspection by sample tests. The  discretion  of  the  Customer  shall  be
exercised  fairly  and reasonably.
8.5    Should the Supplier fail to rectify (i. e. repair or replacement) any
deficiency within a reasonable time period set by the Customer, the
Customer is entitled to:
(a)  cancel the Contract in whole or in part without being subject to any
liability for damages; or
(b)  demand a reduction in price; or
(c)  undertake itself any repair at the expense and risks of  the
Supplier  or  re-performance  of  Services  or  replacement  of Goods
or arrange for such to be done; and
(d)  claim damages in lieu of performance.
8.6    Any rectification may take place without a further deadline at the
expense  of  the  Supplier  if  delivery  is  effected  after  the  original
deadline.
8.7    The  same  shall  apply  if  the  Customer  has  a  strong  particular interest
in immediate rectification in order to avoid any liability of its  own  for  delay
or  for  other  reasons  of  urgency  and  it  is  not unreasonable for the
Customer to request the Supplier to rectify the deficiency within a
reasonable time period.
8.8    Additional or other statutory rights are not affected hereby.
8.9    If the Supplier provides subsequent performance or repairs, the
warranty periods set out in Sections 8.1 and 8.3 shall begin to run once
again.
8.10    Notwithstanding  the  transfer  of  risk  regarding  delivery,  the
Supplier shall bear all the costs (including but not limited to return costs,
costs of transport) and risk related to the rectification.
8.11  The Supplier represents and warrants  that it has  all necessary permits
and licenses to allow it to sell the Goods and/or Services to the Customer,
and that it has complied with all relevant laws, rules and regulations
affecting its obligations and the performance of the Contract.
8.12  The Supplier represents and warrants that all Goods are new and do not
contain any used or reconditioned parts or materials unless otherwise
specified or approved by the Customer.
8.13  Breach of any of the representations and warranties in this Section 8  shall,
without  prejudice  to  any  other  rights  of  the  Customer, entitle the
Customer to terminate the Contract and claim damages, loss,  costs  and
expenses  from  the  Supplier  (including,  without limitation, legal costs on
an indemnity basis).
8.14  Sections 8  and 19 shall include and apply to  any replacement, repaired,
substituted or remedial Goods and/or Services provided by the Supplier.
Page 3 of 7
SIEMENS ENERGY SDN. BHD. 
[Company No. 201901031998
CONDITIONS OF PURCHASE 
Version: 2.2: dated 27th May 2024
9.  Duty to Verify Title/Duty to Inform
9.1 The Supplier is obliged to examine components such as, e.g., raw
material,  provided  by  the  Customer  or  provided  by  Supplier’s 
suppliers, manufacturers or other third parties at the time of receipt of such 
components as to whether these components show any defects. In case any 
defects are discovered in the course of such inspections, the Supplier shall 
immediately inform its suppliers or – in the case the components are provided 
by the Customer, inform the Customer.
9.2 It is essential that the Goods and/or Services are delivered free of any third 
party rights, liens, encumbrances or infringements. Thus the Supplier is 
under a duty to verify title and inform the Customer of any possible conflicting 
industrial and intellectual property rights. Any breach of such duty is subject 
to the normal statutory limitation period.
10. Subcontracting/Assignment
10.1  The Supplier shall not, either in whole or in part, subcontract or assign
any rights, duties or obligations under the Contract, or any claims for any debt 
owed by the Customer to the Supplier under the Contract unless the 
Customer gives its prior written consent, such consent to be signed by its 
authorized representatives, to such assignment or subcontract. If the 
Customer gives its written consent, the Supplier is not relieved of any of its 
obligations under the Contract. The Customer may attach conditions to the 
giving of its consent. Any attempted delegation, assignment or 
subcontracting without the written consent of the Customer shall be void. 
Further, the Customer shall be entitled to cancel the Contract in whole or in 
part and claim damages.
10.2 The Customer may, in its sole discretion, transfer, assign, or novate the 
Contract or any part thereof to its Affiliate. The Customer shall further be 
entitled to transfer, assign, or novate the whole Contract or any part thereof to 
any third party, in the event of a sale or other transfer of the business or a part 
of the business of the Customer to a third party. The Supplier shall be bound 
by such transfer, assignment or novation. The Supplier agrees to be a party 
to any transfer, novation or assignment if so requested by the Customer and 
further undertake to execute all relevant documentations in connection 
therewith.
11. Tools, Patterns, Samples, Confidentiality etc.
11.1   All Issued Material shall be and remain the property of the Customer
(even if charged for) and is to be stored, labeled as property of the Customer 
and administered separately at no cost to the Customer. Their use is limited 
to the orders of the Customer only. The Supplier shall supply replacements in 
the event of reduction of value or loss, for which Supplier is responsible, even 
in the event of negligence. On completion of its obligations under the 
Contract or as otherwise directed by the Customer, the Supplier shall return 
the Issued Material to the Customer in good order and condition.
11.2 Any Issued Material as well as any materials derived there from, shall not be 
made available to any third party nor used for any other purpose than those 
contractually agreed except with the prior written consent ofthe Customer. Such 
materials shall be protected by the Supplier against unauthorized access or use. 
Subject to any further rights the Customer may demand that such materials be 
returned if the Supplier breaches these duties.
11.3   The Supplier shall not make available to any third party any information 
obtained from the Customer if such information is not already general 
knowledge or has not been lawfully obtained by the Supplier. Insofar as the 
Customer agrees to any subcontracting to a third party, such third party shall 
agree to such terms in writing.
11.4  The Supplier shall treat as confidential the knowledge and findings, the 
documents  (including  the  Contract),  terms  of  reference,  business 
processes and any other information and/or materials that the Supplier 
receives from the Customer. Issued Material is also confidential. Use of any 
such information and Issued Material is permitted solely for the purpose of 
carrying out the Contract. The Supplier shall not, without the prior written 
consent of the Customer, copy or disclose such confidential information 
to anyone other than those employees or agents of the Supplier on a 
need-to-know basis and only if these parties are bound to
the Customer by substantially similar confidentiality
provisions.
11.5 The Supplier shall not without the Customer’s written consent advertise or
otherwise make known that the Supplier supplies or has supplied Goods or 
Services to the Customer.
11.6    The  confidentiality  obligations  in  this  Section  11  shall  survive  the
termination or expiration of the Contract.
11.7 The Supplier shall indemnify and compensate the Customer and all its assigns,
subcontractors and customers from and against any claims, liabilities, actions, 
demands, damages, loss and costs and expenses (including without limitation, 
legal costs on an indemnity basis) suffered as a result of a breach of this 
Section 11 and other Conditions herein.12. Inability to Pay/Insolvency of the Supplier
Should  the  Supplier  cease  to  make  payments,  or  if  an  interim
insolvency administrator is appointed or if insolvency proceedings are 
applied for or commenced in relation to the assets of the Supplier, the 
Customer may terminate the Contract and/or any Purchase Orders 
issued thereunder in part or in whole. In the event of termination the 
Customer may continue to utilize existing facilities, deliveries or services 
already performed by the Supplier in exchange for reasonable payment.
13. Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy Suppliers, Security in the Supply
Chain
13.1 The Supplier shall comply with the principles and requirements of the
“Siemens  Energy Code of Conduct for Suppliers  and  Third  Party 
Intermediaries", (hereinafter the “Code of Conduct”, a copy of which to 
be extended to the Supplier upon request thereof) and shall execute the 
Declaration of Compliance (“Declaration”) and return the duly executed 
Declaration to the Customer as may be prescribed by the Customer. The 
Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal 
system(s). In particular, the Supplier will not engage, actively or 
passively, nor directly or indirectly in any form of bribery, in any violation 
of basic human rights of employees or any child labor. Moreover, the 
Supplier willtake responsibility for the health and safety of its employees, 
the Supplier will act in accordance with the applicable environmental 
laws and will use best efforts to promote the Code of Conduct among its 
suppliers.
13.2  The Supplier shall further provide the necessary organizational 
instructions and take measures, particularly with regard to the following 
types of security: premises security, packaging and transport, 
business partner, personnel and information - in order to guarantee the 
security in the supply chain according to the requirements of respective 
internationally recognized initiatives based on the WCO SAFE 
Framework of Standards (e.g. AEO, CTPAT). The Supplier shall 
protect the Goods and Services provided to the Customer or provided 
to third parties designated by the Customer against unauthorised access 
and manipulation. The Supplier shall only deploy reliable personnel for 
those Goods and Services and shall obligate any sub-sellers to take 
equivalent security measures.
13.3   The Supplier shall inform the Customer immediately of any non-
compliance with the above Sections 13.1 and 13.2. Should either 
allegations  of  the  Supplier’s  non-compliance  with  the  above 
Sections  13.1  and  13.2  or  other  claims  which  threaten  to 
endanger the Customer’s reputation become public, e.g. by way of 
media coverage, the Supplier shall provide a written statement, 
immediately  upon  the  Customer’s  request,  concerning  the 
Supplier’s non-compliance or the allegations made.
13.4 In addition to other rights and remedies the Customer may have, in the 
event of the Supplier’s material or repeated failure to comply with 
the above Sections 13.1 and 13.2, after providing the Supplier 
reasonable notice and a reasonable opportunity to remedy, the 
Customer may terminate the Contract and/or any Purchase Order
issued hereunder without any liability 
whatsoever.  Material  failures  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,
incidents of failure to ensure security in the supply chain, child labour, 
corruption and bribery, and failure to comply with the Code of 
Conduct’s environmental protection requirements.
14. Compliance with Applicable Anti-Corruption, Antitrust, Anti- Money
Laundering and Other Criminal Laws
14.1   The Supplier represents and warrants that it will comply with all
applicable anti-corruption, antitrust, anti-money laundering or other 
criminal laws, rules or regulations in respect of the activities 
contemplated by the Contract.
14.2   The Supplier hereby represents and warrants that it and all of its 
directors, officers, and employees who will perform services under 
the Contract are familiar with the rules, restrictions and principles 
herein and agrees to take appropriate steps to ensure compliance 
therewith by any such persons in respect of the activities 
contemplated by the Contract.
14.3 If, during the term of the Contract, the Supplier becomes aware that the 
representation and warranty set forth in this Section 14 are no longer 
true and correct, the Supplier must notify the Customer in writing 
within 10 business days, and, whether or not so notified within that time 
period, if the Customer determines that the changed circumstances 
provide good cause to terminate the Contract in accordance with Section 
22 herein below, the Contract may be terminated at the Customer’s sole 
discretion.
14.4 In the event that the Customer has reasonable grounds to believe (on the 
basis of credible information, including, but not limited to, third-party 
statements that the Customer believes to be reliable or well-sourced 
press  reports)  that  there  has  been  a  material
Page 4 of 7
SIEMENS ENERGY SDN. BHD. 
[Company No. 201901031998
CONDITIONS OF PURCHASE 
Version: 2.2: dated 27th May 2024
breach of the representations and warranties contained in this Section 14 
hereof, the Customer, or a third party acting on the Customer’s behalf, shall 
have the right to audit the books and records of the Supplier pertaining to 
the Supplier’s performance of services under the Contract. The Supplier 
agrees to fully cooperate in the event of any such audit.
14.5 The Supplier agrees that the Customer may, at any time and for any reason, 
disclose the existence and terms of the Contract, including the Supplier’s 
identity and compensation under the Contract, to any person the 
Customer determines has a legitimate need for that information, including 
but not limited to any government or government agency.
15. Environmental Protection, Duties to Declare, Dangerous Goods,
Occupational Health and Safety
15.1 Should the Supplier deliver Goods, products, substances of which are set
out in the “List of Declarable Substances” 
(www.bomcheck.net/suppliers/restricted-and-declarable-substances-
list) applicable at the time of the Contract or which are subject to statutorily
imposed  substance  restrictions  and/or  information 
requirements  (e.g.  REACH,  RoHS),  Supplier  shall  declare  such
substances in the web database BOMcheck (www.BOMcheck.net) no later 
than the date of first delivery of Goods. With respect to statutorily imposed 
substance restrictions the foregoing shall only apply to laws which are 
applicable at the registered seat of Supplier or Customer or at the designated 
place of delivery requested by Customer.
15.2 Should the delivery contain goods which are classified as dangerous goods 
according to international regulations, the Supplier shall inform the Customer 
hereof in a form agreed upon between Supplier and Customer, but in no 
case later than the date of Purchase Order confirmation. The 
requirements concerning dangerous goods in Sections 5.8 and 5.9 remain 
unaffected.
15.3 The Supplier is obliged to comply with all legal requirements regarding the 
health and safety of the personnel employed by the Supplier. The Supplier 
shall ensure that the health and safety of its personnel as well as indirect 
subcontractors employed to provide the Goods and Services are 
protected.
16. Indemnities and Liabilities
16.1   The Supplier shall fully indemnify the Customer and all its assigns,
subcontractors and customers from and against any claims, liabilities, actions, 
demands, damages, loss, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, 
legal costs on an indemnity basis):-
(i) sustained  by  the  Customer  and  its  assigns,  subcontractors  and
customers  or  for  which  the  Customer  and  its  assigns, 
subcontractors and customers may be liable as a result of the Supplier’s 
breach of or failure to perform its obligations under the Contract or other 
statutory provisions relevant to the Contract; and
(ii) resulting from death, injury, loss or damage to persons or property caused 
or contributed by the negligence, act, default or omission of the Supplier, its 
employees, sub-sellers (if permitted in writing) or agents.
16.2 Whenever any sum of money is recoverable from or payable by the Supplier 
to the Customer in connection with the performance of the works by the 
Supplier or any breach by the Supplier of the Contract, the Customer may 
deduct the sum then due or which at any time thereafter may become due 
to the Supplier under any other Purchase Order or transaction placed or 
entered into between the Customer and the Supplier.
16.3 The Supplier shall fully indemnify and hold harmless the Customer and all its 
assigns, subcontractors and customers from and against all claims, 
liabilities, actions, demands, damages, costs and expenses (including, 
without limitation, legal costs on an indemnity basis) of any kind or nature 
arising from, in connection with or related in any way to any breach or alleged 
breach of any of the representations and warranties made by the Supplier 
under the Contract.
16.4 The Supplier undertakes to indemnify the Customer against all costs, losses 
and/or expenses incurred in the event that the Royal Malaysian Customs 
Department disallows and/or rejects the input tax credit claimed by the 
Customer due to an invalid tax invoice issued by the Supplier.
16.5 The Supplier accepts liability for all other claims, liabilities, actions, demands, 
loss, damage, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, legal 
costs on an indemnity basis) incurred by the Customer and its assigns,
subcontractors and customers and which is
attributable to negligence, act, default or omission on the part of the Supplier, 
its employees, subcontractors (if permitted under Section 10) or agents or 
resulting from or in connection with the furnishing of the Goods or Services by 
the Supplier or otherwise arises or results from a breach of the Contract.
16.6 Other than the Customer’ obligation to pay the purchase price, the Customer’ 
liability under the Contract shall be for proven negligent conduct only and 
exclude  liability  for  special  or  punitive  damages,financial/economic loss, loss of profit, loss of production, loss of use, loss
of information, indirect or consequential damages. In no event  shall  the
Customer’  liability  whether  under  Contract,  tort (including  negligence),
strict  liability,  indemnity  or  other  legal theory exceed the 10% of the
purchase price.
17. Insurance
The  Supplier  shall,  at  its  expense,  effect  and  maintain  valid
insurance policies covering loss of or damage to the works and such
other  insurance  as  may  be  required  under  applicable legislation
on terms  acceptable to the Customer. The  Supplier shall  provide
satisfactory  evidence  of  such  insurance  policies upon request by the
Customer.
18. Export Control and Foreign Trade Data Regulations
18.1   For  all  Goods  and  Services  to  be  provided  according  to  the
Contract, Supplier shall comply with all applicable export control,
customs  and  foreign  trade  regulations  (“Foreign  Trade
Regulations”)  and  shall  obtain  all  necessary  export  licenses, unless
Customer or any party other than Supplier is required to apply for the
export licenses pursuant to the applicable Foreign Trade Regulations.
18.2  Supplier shall advise Customer in writing as early as possible, but not
later than two weeks prior to the Delivery Date - and in case of any
changes without undue delay - of any information and data required
by  Customer  to  comply  with  all  Foreign  Trade
Regulations  for  the  Goods  and  Services  applicable  in  the
countries of export and import as well as re-export.  In any case, Supplier
shall provide Customer for each Good and Service:
-All applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control
Classification  Number  according  to  the  U.S.  Commerce
Control List (ECCN); and
-the  statistical  commodity  code  according  to  the  current
commodity classification for foreign trade statistics and the HS
(Harmonized System) coding; and
-the country of origin (non-preferential origin); and
-  upon  request  of  the  Customer:  Supplier’s  declaration  of
preferential origin (in case of European suppliers) or preferential
certificates (in case of non-European suppliers);
(“Export Control and Foreign Trade Data”).
In case of any alterations to origin and/or characteristics of the Goods
and  Services  and/or  to  the  applicable  Foreign  Trade Regulations,
Supplier shall update the Export Control and Foreign Trade Data as early
as possible but not later than two weeks prior to delivery.
18.3   The Supplier shall be  liable for any expenses and/or damages incurred
by  Customer  due  to  any  breach  of  the  obligations according  to
Sections  18.1  and  18.2,  unless  Supplier  is  not responsible for such
breach.
19. Quality & Compliance, Statutory Obligations
19.1  The  Supplier  represents  and  warrants  that  all  Goods  and
Services supplied shall, where applicable:-
(a)  conform  with  the  quantity,  quality,  specifications,
description  and  any  other  particulars  contained  in  the
Contract;
(b)  conform  with  any  sample,  design  criteria,  drawing,
description  and  specification  furnished  by  the  Customer and
other  requirements  described  or  referenced  in  the Purchase
Order;
(c)  be  of  satisfactory  quality,  merchantable  and  fit  for  any
intended  use  expressly  or  impliedly  made  known  to  the Supplier
and free from all defects, liens, encumbrances and other claims
against title; and
(d)  comply with the performance specifications in the  Contract.
 19.2   All  Services  supplied  shall  comply  fully  with  the  terms  of  the
Contract and shall be executed in a proper and skilful manner by
properly qualified and experienced personnel and conform to the
best industry standards.
19.3   This  Section  19  shall  include  and  apply  to  any  replacement,
repaired,  substituted  or  remedied  Goods  or  substituted  or
remedial Services provided by the Supplier.
19.4  While on the Customer’s or its customer’s premises, the Supplier shall
abide  by  any  written  or  verbal  instructions  in  relation  to safety and
security issued by the Customer or its customer.
19.5   The  Supplier  shall  comply  with  all  relevant  statutes,  rules  and
regulations  and  bye-laws  affecting  its  obligations  and  the
performance of the Contract.
20. Reservation Clause
The Customer shall not be obligated to fulfill the Contract if such
fulfillment is prevented by any impediments arising out of national
SIEMENS ENERGY SDN. BHD. 
[Company No. 201901031998
CONDITIONS OF PURCHASE 
Version: 2.2: dated 27th May 2024
or  international  foreign  trade  or  customs  requirements  or  any 
embargoes or other sanctions.
21. Force Majeure
21.1   A Party  will  not  be  liable  to  the  other  for  any  delay  in  or  failure  to
perform its obligations as a result of any cause beyond its reasonable control,
including acts of God, acts of terrorism, acts of war or threat thereof, fire, 
flood, explosion, power failure resulting from fires, explosions and other 
acts of God, infectious diseases, epidemics or government action. If any such 
delay is caused by the delay of a subcontractor of the Supplier (if permitted 
under Section 10), and is beyond the control and without the fault or 
negligence of both the Supplier and such permitted subcontractor, the 
Supplier shall incur no liability for such delay unless the deliveries to be 
furnished by such permitted subcontractor were obtainable from other 
sources in sufficient time to meet the required delivery hereunder. The 
Supplier shall notify the Customer immediately upon learning of any event 
which may result in any delay.
21.2 If such delay or failure continues for at least one (1) month, the Parties shall be 
entitled to forthwith terminate the Contract by notice in writing. In such event, 
no Party shall have any claim against the other in respect of such force 
majeure.
22. Termination
22.1    The  Customer  shall  be  entitled  to  cancel  the  Purchase  Order  in 
respect of all or part of the Goods and/or Services by giving notice to the
Supplier at any time prior to delivery, in which event the Customer shall pay a 
fair and reasonable sum for and accept delivery of all finished Goods 
manufactured by the Supplier and Services properly rendered at the date of 
cancellation.
22.2 The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the Contract forthwith without
liability to the Supplier by giving notice to the Supplier at any time if:-
 (i) the Customer determines in good faith that the Supplier is in breach of
the Contract and, in the case of a breach capable of remedy, fails to 
remedy the breach within 14 days of being notified of the breach in 
writing; or
 (ii) the Supplier makes any voluntary arrangement with its creditors or 
(being an individual or firm) becomes bankrupt or (being a company)
goes  into  liquidation  (whether  compulsory  or 
voluntary, otherwise than for the  purpose of amalgamation or
reconstruction) or have an order made or resolution passed for such 
winding-up or shall otherwise become insolvent or make such proposal, 
assignment or arrangement for the benefit of its creditors or have a 
receiver or manager appointed over its affairs or have an application 
made to court for the appointment of a judicial manager or be placed 
under a judicial management order; or
 (iii) an encumbrancer takes possession, or a receiver is appointed, over
any of the property or assets of the Supplier; or
  (iv)  the Supplier ceases, or threatens to cease, to carry on business;
or
  (v)  there  is  a  change  in  control  of  the  Supplier  which  in  the 
reasonable  opinion  of  the  Customer  adversely  affects  the 
position, rights or interests of the Customer. For the purposes of this sub-
clause, “control” means the ability to direct the affairs of another whether 
by virtue of contract, ownership of shares, or otherwise howsoever; or
 (vi) in the reasonable opinion of the Customer, there occurs a material 
change in the financial position of the Supplier which is likely to affect 
the Supplier's ability to perform its obligations under the Contract; or
(vii)  the  Customer  reasonably  apprehends  that  any  of  the  events 
mentioned above is about to occur in relation to the Supplier and notifies 
the Supplier accordingly; or
(viii) if the events referred to in Section 21 continues for at least 1 month; or 
(ix) if the Customer determines in good faith that the Supplier has breached
any of its representations and warranties in Section 14.
22.3 Termination of the Contract shall not discharge either Party from any existing
obligation accrued due on or prior to the date of termination.
22.4 For the avoidance of doubt, any termination or cancellation of the Contract
shall not affect the continuance in force of Software licences granted to the 
Customer or its customers.
22.5 In the event that the Customer terminates the Contract in whole or in part as 
provided in Section 22.2 above, the Customer may procure, upon such 
terms and in such manner as the Customer deems appropriate, 
replacement Goods and/or Services and the Supplier shall reimburse the 
Customer upon demand for all additional loss, costand  expense  incurred  by  the  Customer  in  purchasing  such 
substitute Goods and/or Services.
22.6   The rights and remedies granted to the Customer pursuant to the 
Contract are in addition to, and shall not limit or affect, any other rights 
or remedies available at law or in equity.
23. Compliance with Personal Data Protection Laws 
23.1   The Supplier undertakes that:
(a) it will take all appropriate and commercially reasonable security 
arrangements to prevent unauthorized access, collection, use, 
disclosure, copying, modification, disposal or similar risks of any 
personal data which it receives and collects from Customer;
(b)   it will comply with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 
(Malaysia) (“PDPA”) and any applicable privacy and data 
protection laws which it is subject to;
(c)  it  will  not  sell,  share  or  otherwise  use  or  disclose  any 
personal data collected from Customer without the prior written 
consent of Customer; and
(d) the personal data collected from Customer is available only to its 
employees who have a legitimate business need to access the 
personal data, who are bound by confidentiality obligations and 
who are aware of the Supplier’s privacy and data protection 
obligations under the PDPA.
23.2  The Supplier hereby agrees and consents that its’ personal data 
provided to the Customer, or obtained by the Customer, shall be 
processed by the Customer in accordance with the Customer’s
personal data notice as set out in https://www.siemens-
energy.com/global/en/general/privacy-notice.html
(subject to update by the Customer from time to time). If any personal 
data provided to the Customer does not belong to the Supplier but to 
ts officer, representative or employee, the Supplier  its 
officer, representative or employee, the Supplier hereby war-
rant that such officer, representative or employee agrees and 
consents for his personal data to be processed by the Customer in 
accordance with the Customer’s personal data notice as set out in 
https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/general/privacy-notice.html
(subject to update by the Customer from time to time).
23.3  In  the  event  the  Supplier  breaches  any  of  the  foregoing
provisions,  the  Supplier  shall  indemnify,  defend  and  hold 
harmless Customer from and against any and all liabilities, fines, 
penalties, costs, damages, expenses, legal costs arising out of or in 
relation to any unauthorized use or disclosure of personal data collected 
from Customer and/or the Supplier’s breach of the PDPA and any 
applicable privacy and data protection laws which it is subject to.
24. Intellectual Property Rights
24.1   The  Supplier  represents  and warrants  that the  Goods  and the
Software (if applicable) or the Services do not violate or infringe any 
patents, copyright, trademarks, trade secrets, service marks,registered 
designs, design rights or other intangible property rights of third 
parties (“intellectual property rights”).
24.2   The Supplier shall fully indemnify the Customer and its assigns, 
subcontractors  and  customers  from  and  against  any  claims, 
liabilities, actions, demands, damages, loss, costs and expenses 
(including, without limitation, legal costs on an indemnity basis) in respect 
of any alleged or actual infringement by any of the Goods or Services of 
any intellectual property right including but not limited to
patents, copyright, trademarks, service marks, 
registered designs, design rights or other third party rights and the
Supplier shall at its own cost and expense defend or settle all such claims 
or actions or proceedings brought or threatened to be brought against 
the Customer.
24.3 Without prejudice to any of the foregoing, if any of the Goods and/or the 
Software or Services is held or claimed to be infringing third party 
intellectual property rights, the Supplier shall at its own cost and expense 
use its best efforts to procure the right for the Customer to continue 
using or receiving the infringing Goods and/or Software or Services. If 
the Supplier is unable to do so, then the Supplier undertakes at its own 
cost and expense to:
(i) replace or modify the infringing Goods and/or Software, or remedy
the Services expeditiously so that it is no longer infringing; or
(ii) if the Supplier is unable to replace or modify the infringing Goods
and/or Software or remedy the Services, then the Supplier shall 
refund in full all payments made by the Customer in
respect of the infringing Goods and/or 
Software or the Services. Further, the Supplier shall also
reimburse  the  Customer  in  relation  to  all  additional  loss,
Page 6 of 7
SIEMENS ENERGY SDN. BHD. 
[Company No. 201901031998
CONDITIONS OF PURCHASE 
Version: 2.2: dated 27th May 2024
costs and expenses incurred by the Customer in purchasing any 
substitute Goods and/or Software or Services.
24.4   The  Customer  shall  own  all  intellectual  property  rights  arising from 
modifications  and  customizations  of  the  Goods,  Software,  and/orServices 
made by Supplier for the Customer, or by the Customer itself. The Customer 
reserves all its rights in drawings and in goods produced according 
to its instructions as well as in any processes developed by it.
24.5 All intellectual property rights in the works carried out under the Contract 
are hereby assigned and shall vest in the Customer absolutely. 
This includes any copyright or design rights which will vest in and become the 
property of the Customer as and when such rights come into existence.
25. Cybersecurity
25.1   Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and technical measures
to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and availability of Supplier
Operations as well as Goods and Services. These measures shall be 
consistent with good industry practice and shall include an appropriate 
information security management system consistent with standards such as 
ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable).
25.2 Should Goods or Services contain software, firmware, or chipsets, Supplier
shall:-
(a) implement appropriate standards, processes and methods to prevent,
identify,  evaluate  and  repair  any  vulnerabilities, 
malicious code, and security incidents in products and services which
shall be consistent with good industry practice and standards 
such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable);
(b) continue to support and provide services to repair, update, upgrade 
and maintain Goods and Services including the provision of 
patches to Customer remedying vulnerabilities for the reasonable 
lifetime of the Goods and Services;
(c) provide to Customer a bill of materials identifying all third-party software 
components contained in the Goods. Third-party software shall 
be up-to-date at the time of delivery to Customer;
(d) ensure that the Customer shall have the right, but Customer shall not 
be obliged, to test or have tested Goods for malicious code and 
vulnerabilities at any time, and of which Supplier shall adequately 
support;
(e) provide Customer a contact for all information security related issues
(available at all times).
25.3  Supplier  shall  promptly  report  to  Customer  all  security  incidents
occurred or suspected and vulnerabilities discovered in any Supplier 
Operations, Services and Goods, if any to the extent Customer is or is likely 
to be materially affected.
25.4 Supplier shall ensure that its subcontractors and suppliers be bound by similar
cybersecurity obligations as contained herein.
25.5 Upon Customer’s request, Supplier shall provide written evidence of its
compliance with this Section 25 including generally accepted audit reports 
(e.g., SSAE-16 SOC 2 Type II).
26. Supplementary Provisions
26.1    Insofar as the provisions of these Conditions do not regulate certain
matters, relevant statutory provisions shall apply.
26.2    The Supplier shall be liable for all expenses and/or damages incurred
by the Customer due to any breach of the Conditions; unless it is proven 
that the Supplier is not responsible for such breach.
27. Applicable Law
The Contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
the  laws  of  Malaysia.  The  application  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods of 11th of April, 
1980 shall be excluded.
28. Dispute Settlement
28.1    If any dispute arises in connection with the Contract, the responsible
representatives of the Parties shall attempt, in fair dealing and in good faith, to 
settle such dispute. Each Party can request from the other Party that on both 
sides a senior representative becomes involved in the negotiations. Each 
Party is at any time entitled to terminate the settlement negotiations and to 
have recourse to an Alternative Dispute Resolution (“ADR”) proceeding set 
forth in Section 28.2 below through written notification to the other Party.
28.2 If the Parties are not able to reach an amicable settlement pursuant to Section 
28.1, they shall try to agree on an appropriate ADR proceeding (for example 
mediation, conciliation, expert determination, dispute board,
adjudication).  If  they  do  not  reach  agreement  on  the 
appropriate ADR proceeding within fourteen (14) days after failure of the
settlement negotiations or if the dispute is not settled through an ADR 
proceeding within a period of two (2) months after initiation of theADR  proceeding,  each  Party  may  initiate  a  dispute  resolution 
proceeding in accordance with Section 28.3 below.
28.3 Subject to Sections 28.1 and 28.2, any dispute arising out of or in relation 
to the Contract, including the validity, invalidity, breach or termination 
thereof, shall be settled as follows:
(a)  For  disputes  where  the  total  quantum  (including  all 
counterclaims) is less than RM30million, such disputes shall
be determined in legal proceedings in the Courts of Malaysia;
(b)   For  all  other  disputes  which  do  not  fall  under  Section
28.3(a),  such  dispute  shall  be  referred  to  arbitration  in 
accordance with the Rules of Arbitration of the International 
Chamber of Commerce (“ICC Rules”) and determined by three 
(3) arbitrators appointed in accordance with the said Rules, in 
force on the date when the Notice of Arbitration is submitted in 
accordance with these Rules.
The seat and place of the arbitration shall be Malaysia. The 
arbitral proceedings shall be conducted in English.
29. Miscellaneous
29.1    If the Goods and/or Services supplied under the Contract require
the  Customer  to  have  any  permit  or  licence  from  any
governmental or other regulatory authority, the Contract shall be 
deemed conditional upon such permit or licence being granted at the 
required time.
29.2 Without prejudice to Section 8.11, the Supplier represents and warrants 
that it shall comply with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
requirements and shall obtain at its own costs and expense, all 
necessary permits and licences. Upon request, the Supplier shall 
furnish to the Customer information or documentation of the 
Supplier's compliance as well as any other information or documentation 
required to enable the Customer to comply with any laws, rules, 
regulations and requirements applicable to its receipt and use of any 
Goods or Services.
 The Supplier shall also keep and maintain at the work site a register 
including evidence of valid work permits held by all its personnel, 
employees and other labours, including those of sub- suppliers, 
engaged in work at the work site and shall make available the 
register including evidence of valid work permits at all times for 
inspection by the Customer, its agents the end customer or the 
authorized representatives of government agencies.
29.3 If any provision of these Conditions is held by any competent authority 
to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, such provision shall be 
construed, limited or, if necessary, severed to the extent
necessary to eliminate such invalidity or 
unenforceability and the validity of the other provisions of these
Conditions and the remainder of the provision in question shall not be 
affected thereby but shall remain in full force and effect.
29.4 The Customer does not waive any right under this Contract by failing to 
insist on compliance with any of the terms of this Contract or by 
failing to exercise any right hereunder. Any waivers granted hereunder 
are effective only if recorded in writing and signed by an authorised 
representative of the Customer. No waiver by the Customer of any 
breach of the Contract by the Supplier shall be considered as a 
waiver of any subsequent breach of the same or any other provision.
29.5 The Contract is the entire agreement between the Parties and shall 
supersede any previous communications, representations or 
agreements, whether verbal or written, with respect to the subject 
matter hereof and may not be changed unless agreed in writing and 
signed by properly authorised representatives of both Parties.
29.6    All  notices  must  be  in  writing,  signed  by  the  authorised 
representatives of both parties and sent to the address or fax number
set out in the Contract. They may be delivered by hand, or by prepaid 
registered post or by facsimile and shall be deemed to have been 
served:-
  (i)   if by hand, at time of delivery;
  (ii)  if by prepaid registered post, 3 working days after posting;
or
  (iii)  if  by  facsimile,  on  the  date  printed  on  the  facsimile
transmission report produced by the sender’s machine.
29.7 Only upon Customer’s prior written approval may Supplier be allowed
to mention the Customer as a reference customer and/or make 
reference to the Goods or Services which the Supplier has developed 
during the performance of an order for the Customer.
Page 7 of 7
SIEMENS ENERGY SDN. BHD. 
[Company No. 201901031998
CONDITIONS OF PURCHASE 
Version: 2.2: dated 27th May 2024
29.8       FOR RFQ - Siemens Energy does not purchase any items or products
              which originate in or are located in Russia or Belarus or have been 
              exported from Russia or Belarus to any other country.
              Each supplier must contact Siemens Energy prior to submission 
              of an offer if Supplier intends to offer items or products with any such 
              nexus to Russia or Belarus.
              FOR PO - Siemens Energy does not purchase any items or products 
              which originate in or are located in Russia or Belarus or have been 
              exported from Russia or Belarus to any other country.
 Each Supplier must contact Siemens Energy prior to order 
              confirmation  if Supplier intends to offer items or products with any 
              such nexus to Russia or Belarus.
29.9 Ban on re-exports to Russia ( „No-Russia-Clause“)
        The following clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) Siemens En-
ergy supplies any goods or technology to the Supplier in the course of 
the execution of the contract, (ii) such supplied goods or technology are 
or refer to goods listed in the Annexes set out in Article 12 g EU Regula-
tion No. 833/2014 as amended and (iii) and the supply takes place from 
the EU to a third country except for partner countries according to Article 
12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 as amended:
- The Customer hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the Supplier 
agrees, not to re-export and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Rus-
sia or for use in Russia any supplied goods as well as technology 
(and related documentation, regardless of the mode of provision) pro-
vided by the Customer to the Supplier under the contract.
- The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the contract by written no-
tice in the event of a breach by the Supplier of the obligation pursuant 
to this section 17.2. Upon termination, the Supplier shall pay to the 
Customer all costs and damages incurred by the Customer from such 
termination. In any case, the Supplier shall pay the Customer liqui-
dated damages in the amount of 20 % of the contract price.
- Notwithstanding the provision herein above in this section 17.2, the 
Supplier shall indemnify and hold harmless the Customer in full from 
and against any claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and dam-
age asserted by public authorities or other third parties against the 
Customer arising out of or relating to a breach by the Supplier of the 
obligations under this section 17.2 and the Supplier shall compensate 
the Customer for all losses and expenses incurred resulting thereof.
29.10 The Supplier shall provide all necessary data and information in 
accordance with the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism 
(CBAM) statutory regulations in a timely manner upon request of 
Customer in order to meet the Customer ´s external obligations. 
CBAM latest developments as well as guidance can be accessed 
on the official Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism Website; 
currently available under the following link: Carbon Border Adjust-
ment Mechanism (europa.eu) .