Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 1STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR
PURCHASE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES –
MAJOR
1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1 “ Agreement ” means the framework agreement,
contract, purchase order or other commercial agreement
of which these general terms and conditions (“ Terms
and Conditions ”) are a part entered into between
Siemens Energy AS (“ Siemens Energy ”) and a supplier
(“Supplier ” ) .  “ Siemens Energy Group” means
Siemens Energy, its Affiliated Companies1 and any other
suppliers to Siemens Energy of any tier.
1.2 “Supply ” means the products, services, documents,
software and/or other deliverables which Siemens
Energy purchases from Supplier under the Agreement.
1.3 The parties are hereinafter referred to individually as
a “Party ” or collectively as the “ Parties ”.
1.4 For the avoidance of doubt, these Terms and
Conditions shall apply between the Parties in relation to
all future orders by Siemens Energy from Supplier under
the Agreement unless the Parties separately agree to the
contrary in writing.
Siemens Energy shall be not bound by the General
Terms and Conditions of Supplier unless Siemens
Energy explicitly agrees to such in writing, and neither
the acceptance of deliveries or services nor the making
of payments by Siemens Energy to Supplier shall
constitute such agreement.
2. GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF SUPPLIER –
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT (HSE)
2.1 Supplier shall provide the Supply in a professional
and careful manner in accordance with the Agreement.
2.2 Supplier shall handle the Supply, any items provided
by Siemens Energy (“ Siemens Energy-provided
Items ”) and all materials with all due care and skill and
shall ensure that they are kept in good order and
condition.
2.3 Supplier shall comply with all statutory provisions on
health, safety and environment. Supplier shall use its
best efforts to minimize and if possible eliminate hazards
for the health, safety and environment for the
performance of the Works and ensure that no persons
nor the environment  suffer any injury. Supplier shall give
priority to safety in order to protect life, health, property
and environment.
2.4 If any incident occurs in connection with the Work
leading to one or more days of incapacity of any person
or if the Supplier becomes aware of any event or
1Affiliated Company means in accordance with the Norwegian
Public Limited Liability Companies Act (“ the Act ”) the parent
company of any of the Parties or any company which undercircumstances in connection with the Work which could
have caused this, Supplier shall immediately inform
Siemens Energy and shall without undue delay, a)
execute a root cause analysis of the incident, b)
determine appropriate measures to exclude similar
incidents in the future, c) define time periods for the
measures to be implemented and d) provide Siemens
Energy with a written report containing sufficient detail
on the root cause, the measures determined and the
time periods defined. Supplier shall support any
additional investigation conducted by Siemens Energy.
3. SUPPLY PROPERTIES
3.1 Supplier warrants that the Supply shall be in
accordance with the Agreement, free of any liens or
defect in title, new and produced with raw materials
which are free of any defect and which are new and fully
functional. The Supplier further warrants that the Supply
shall be fit for its intended purpose and that it shall
comply with official and legal provisions and safety
regulations of the countries of production and
destination. Siemens Energy may return any defective
goods to Supplier at Supplier's cost and demand
replacement in accordance with the Agreement.
3.2 All work performed in connection with making the
Supply (“ Work ”) shall be carried out to the highest
standard of care and workmanship, using only qualified
and trained personnel.
3.3 The Supply shall be developed and delivered in
accordance with the latest version of ISO 9001 or other
equivalent quality standard, as applicable. The warning
concept (use of the signal words and the warning
triangle, and structure of the warning text) shall comply
with the standards of the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) for equipment to be used outside
U.S.A., and the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) for equipment to be used in U.S.A.
3.4 Siemens Energy and its authorized agents and
representatives and/or a third party appointed by
Siemens Energy and reasonably acceptable to Supplier,
shall be entitled (but not obliged) to conduct – also at
Supplier’s premises – inspections and audits in order to
verify that Supplier adheres to such quality standard(s).
3.5 Any inspection or audit may only be conducted upon
prior written notice of Siemens Energy, during regular
business hours, in accordance with the applicable data
protection law and shall neither unreasonably interfere
with Supplier’s business activities nor violate any of
Supplier’s confidentiality agreements with third parties.
Supplier shall reasonably cooperate in any inspection or
audit conducted. Each Party shall bear its expenses in
connection with such inspections/audits.
4. DELIVERY AND DELAY
sections 1-3 of the Act is to be regarded as a subsidiary
company of that parent company or of a Party.
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 24.1 Unless otherwise agreed, and subject to Article 8, the
delivery term shall be DAP (Delivered at Place)
Incoterms 2010, and the point in time and place at which
delivery occurs (“ Delivery ”) shall be determined
accordingly.
4.2 Siemens Energy shall be notified immediately if
Supplier becomes aware of a potential delay to delivery
of the Supply or parts thereof and/or to the Agreement
schedule (“ Agreement Schedule ”). Such notice shall
state the reason for the delay and proposed measures to
mitigate such delay. If Supplier fails to inform Siemens
Energy of a potential delay, Supplier shall be liable for
any losses Siemens Energy may suffer due to Supplier’s
failure to notify, subject to the limitations in Article 19.1.
4.3 Supplier shall undertake all reasonable measures
(e.g. shift work, overtime) in order to avoid delays. The
costs for such measures shall be borne by Supplier.
4.4 If Supplier’s delivery of the Supply is delayed in
relation to the Agreement Schedule, Siemens Energy
shall be entitled to claim liquidated damages in the
amount of 0,2 % of the total sum payable by Siemens
Energy under the Agreement as adjusted in accordance
with the provisions of Article 10 (“ Agreement Price ”) per
commenced calendar day of delay, said liquidated
damages not to exceed 10% of the Agreement Price.
4.5 If Supplier’s delivery of documents relating to the
Supply is delayed in relation to the dates specified in the
supplier document list (where applicable), Siemens
Energy shall be entitled to claim liquidated damages in
the amount of 0,1% of the Agreement Price per
commenced calendar day of delay, said liquidated
damages not to exceed 5% of the Agreement Price.
4.6 Siemens Energy may withhold any liquidated
damages to which it becomes entitled from any
payments due to Supplier under the Agreement.  Upon
receipt of notice from Siemens Energy, Supplier shall
issue Siemens Energy with a credit note for the amount
of liquidated damages withheld.  The payment of
liquidated damages by Supplier shall not affect any of
Siemens Energy’s other contractual or legal rights
arising from Supplier’s late Delivery or performance, and
shall not release Supplier from its other contractual or
legal obligations arising under the Agreement.
5. PACKING AND DISPATCH
5.1 Packing shall be suitable for the Supply and the
intended method of transport and in compliance with the
requirements specified in these Terms and Conditions
and elsewhere in the Agreement. Any loss or damage to
the Supply resulting from defective packing shall be
made good by Supplier.
5.2 Unless otherwise agreed, the costs of transport and
packaging shall be borne by Supplier.
All additional costs arising from Supplier’s failure to
conform with the transport requirements for the Supply
shall be borne by Supplier.
5.3 Each shipment shall include where applicable one or
more of the following packing/shipping notes:i) Export Document/Declaration; and/or
ii) Pro forma invoice; and/or
iii) Consignment note, CMR/AWB/BL.
These notes shall include details of the contents as well
as the complete order number for the Supply. Notice of
dispatch shall be provided immediately with the same
information.
5.4 If the transport is performed by a carrier
commissioned by Siemens Energy, Supplier shall submit
any necessary information and data to the carrier
concerning dangerous goods in accordance with legal
requirements.
5.5 Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or
damages incurred by Siemens Energy due to any breach
of the provisions of this Article 5.
6. INVOICES
6.1 The Agreement number as well as any other
supporting documentation required in the Agreement
shall be detailed in or submitted together with each
Invoice (“ Invoice ”). Invoices shall not be payable by
Siemens Energy unless they include this information.
6.2 If the Parties have agreed that Supplier shall provide
a performance bank guarantee, such bank guarantee
shall, unless otherwise expressly stated in the
Agreement, be: (1) issued by a  a bank or financing
institution acceptable to Siemens Energy, (2) issued on
Siemens Energy standard format for “on demand”
guarantees, and (3) submitted to Siemens Energy within
14 calendar days of the effective date of the Agreement.
The guaranteed amound shall be 10% of the Agreement
Price from issuance of the performance bank guarantee
up until 1 month after the scheduled Delivery date.
Thereafter, the guaranteed amount shall be reduced to
5% of the Agreement Price. The performance bank
guarantee shall expire 1 month after the scheduled
expiry of the Warranty Period. Siemens Energy shall not
be required to make payment under any Invoices until
such bank guarantee has been provided to Siemens
Energy.
7. PAYMENT
7.1 Unless otherwise agreed, payments are to be made
within 60 days of receipt of invoice.
7.2 Subject to Article 6.2, where the Agreement provides
for payment pursuant to payment milestones, the period
for payment shall commence upon Siemens Energy’s
receipt of an Invoice supported by required
documentation confirming Supplier’s fulfillment of the
conditions for the applicable payment milestone.  In all
other cases, the period of payment shall commence as
soon as any milestone or service is completed and an
Invoice is received. Where Supplier is required to provide
material testing, test records or quality control
documents or any other documentation, such
deliverables shall be a part of the requirements of the
completeness of the milestone and service.
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 37.3 Payment does not constitute an acknowledgement
that the Supply was provided in accordance with the
Agreement (in particular in relation to quantity or quality),
and Siemens Energy retains the right to claim against
Supplier after paying for the Supply.
8. TRANSFER OF RISK AND TITLE
8.1 For Supply involving installation, commissioning or
other services subsequent to equipment delivery
(“Services ”), risk shall transfer to Siemens Energy upon
acceptance of the Services. For Supply not involving
Services risk shall transfer to Siemens Energy on
Delivery to Siemens Energy.
8.2 Without prejudice to Siemens Energy’s right to reject
the Supply thereafter, title to the Supply shall pass to
Siemens Energy when:
(a) Siemens Energy pays for the Supply; or
(b) Siemens Energy receives the Supply;
whichever occurs first.
8.3 Any portion of the Supply with respect to which title
has passed to Siemens Energy but which remains in the
care, custody and control of Supplier or its subcontractor
shall be clearly identified in a manner acceptable to
Siemens Energy as being the property of Siemens
Energy and shall be segregated from Supplier or its
subcontractors’ property to the extent possible.
9. INSPECTIONS AND AUDIT
9.1 Supplier shall inspect the Supply for quantity and
quality before dispatch.
9.2 Subject to Siemens Energy obtaining appropriate
confidentiality declarations from Siemens Energy’s
immediate customer and the end customer, Supplier
shall permit Siemens Energy, Siemens Energy’s
immediate customer and the end customer to enter upon
Supplier facilities to carry out such audits of technical
documentation, data, records and transactions
connected to the Supply and for the purpose of verifying
the production process and/or the witnessing of any test.
Supplier shall also ensure that Siemens Energy,
Siemens Energy’s immediate customer and the end
customer have similar rights to audit and inspect
Supplier’s subcontractors at any tier.
10. VARIATION ORDERS
10.1 Siemens Energy has the right to order any variation
to the Supply which in Siemens Energy’s opinion is
desirable. Such a variation to the Supply may include an
increase or decrease in the quantity, or a change in
character, quality, kind or execution of the Supply or any
part thereof (“ Variation ”)
10.2 Within seven (7) days of receiving Siemens
Energy's instruction for a Variation or within seven (7)
days of the date when Supplier discovered or ought tohave discovered a situation requiring a Variation,
Supplier shall submit a variation order request (“ VOR ”)
in a format to be agreed between the Parties detailing
how the Variation will affect the Agreement Schedule,
the Agreement Price and/or any other conditions under
the Agreement. If Supplier fails to submit a VOR within
the stated time limit, Supplier shall be deemed to have
agreed to the Variation without any increase in the
Agreement Price or extension to the Agreement
Schedule and shall have waived any right to claim for
any compensation in connection therewith.
10.3 The cost impact of any Variation shall be
determined in accordance with the rates specified in the
schedules for the Agreement Price. If there are no rates,
applicable rates for Work performed in connection with a
Variation shall be prepared reflecting the general level of
pricing set out in the Agreement. If the cost impact
cannot be mutually agreed by the Parties, then the cost
impact shall be finally determined by Siemens Energy in
its reasonable judgement (without prejudice to the
Parties’ right to dispute resolution).
10.4 Supplier shall minimize the time impact of any
Variation on the delivery of the Supply. The Parties shall
use their best endeavors to agree on the time impact,
taking into account the overall deadlines under the
Agreement. If the time impact cannot be mutually agreed
by the Parties, then the time impact shall be finally
determined by Siemens Energy in its reasonable
judgement (without prejudice to the Parties’ right to
dispute resolution).
10.5 If Supplier requests a VOR which in Siemens
Energy’s opinion is not a Variation, Siemens Energy
shall issue a disputed variation order (“ DVO ”) in a format
to be agreed between the Parties ordering Supplier
immediately to proceed with the Work described in the
VOR. If no court proceedings pursuant to Article 33 have
been instigated within five (5) months of the date of
issuance of the DVO, the subject matter of such DVO
shall be deemed to be part of the Supply.
10.6 Supplier shall implement a Variation Order (“ VO”)
or a DVO promptly upon receipt, even if the effects of
such VO or DVO have not yet been determined. Under
no circumstances shall delivery of the Supply be delayed
due to pending agreement or determination of any VO or
DVO.
11. TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE
11.1 Siemens Energy may by notice to Supplier
terminate the Agreement with the consequence that the
performance of the Work ceases.
11.2 Following such termination, Siemens Energy shall
pay: a) The unpaid balance due to Supplier for that part
of the Work already performed; b) All documented costs
incurred by Supplier and its subcontractors in connection
with materials ordered prior to receipt of the notice of
termination by Supplier, and compensation for Work
performed on such materials prior to said date, provided
that such costs are not covered by payment under Article
11.2 a); c) All necessary termination charges and
administration costs incurred by Supplier in connection
with the termination; and d) Supplier’s and its
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 4subcontractors’ other expenses directly attributable to an
orderly close-out of the Agreement, calculated as far as
possible in accordance with the rates specified in the
Agreement.
11.3 Supplier shall, in accordance with Siemens
Energy’s instructions, make its best efforts to terminate
the Subcontracts on terms acceptable to Siemens
Energy. If Siemens Energy cannot accept the
termination terms, Supplier shall assign such
Subcontracts to Siemens Energy.
12. SIEMENS ENERGY’S RIGHT TO TEMPORARILY
SUSPEND THE WORK
12.1 Siemens Energy may temporarily suspend the
performance of the Work or parts thereof, by giving
notice to Supplier.
The notice shall specify which part of the Work shall be
suspended, the effective date of suspension and the
expected date for resumption of the Work. Furthermore,
it shall state the mobilisation plan and any support
functions which shall be maintained while the Work is
suspended.
Supplier shall resume the Work after notification by
Siemens Energy. The date of resumption of the Work
shall be determined with due consideration of the
mobilisation plan, and the support functions that have
been maintained during the suspension.
12.2 Siemens Energy shall compensate Supplier for all
necessary expenses arising from: a) Demobilisation of
personnel and equipment; b) Safeguarding the Supply,
Siemens Energy-provided Items and related materials
and equipment; c) Personnel, subcontractors and
equipment which must be kept available in accordance
with the mobilisation plan; d) Moving the Supply, if
necessary, so that it does not interfere unreasonably with
Supplier’s other activities; and e) Other expenses
incurred by Supplier as a result of suspension of the
Work.
Supplier’s claim for Work performed shall be calculated
as far as possible in accordance with the rates specified
in the Agreement.
12.3 If suspension of the Work affects the Agreement
Schedule or if Supplier claims that it does, then the
provisions of Article 10 concerning Variations to the
Agreement Schedule and the Agreement Price shall
apply accordingly.
13. TERMINATION DUE TO SUPPLIER’S BREACH
OF CONTRACT
13.1 Siemens Energy is entitled to terminate the
Agreement with immediate effect by notifying Supplier
when: a) Siemens Energy has become entitled to be paid
or it is evident that Siemens Energy will become entitled
to be paid the maximum amount of liquidated damages
in accordance with Article 4.4 and/or Article 4.5; b) It is
evident that completion of the Supply will be delayed by
more than 15 % of the time from start of the Work until
the Delivery date(s) specified in the Agreement, or by 60Days - whichever is the shorter period; c) Supplier is in
material breach of the Agreement; or d) Supplier
becomes insolvent or ceases to make its payments, an
interim insolvency administrator is appointed or
insolvency proceedings are applied for or are
commenced in relation to Supplier’s assets.
13.2 Upon termination of the Agreement in accordance
with this Article 13, Siemens Energy is entitled to take
over from Supplier the Supply, Siemens Energy-
provided Items, subcontracts, and other rights necessary
to enable Siemens Energy to complete the Supply, either
by itself or with the help of others.
13.3 If the Agreement is terminated, Supplier shall be
entitled to payment for the part of the Work performed
and for plant and equipment taken over by Siemens
Energy pursuant to Art 13.2, less any amounts due from
Supplier to Siemens Energy.
13.4 If the Agreement is terminated in accordance with
13.1(d), Siemens Energy shall be entitled to deduct its
costs and losses caused by Supplier’s insolvency from
such payment and may continue to utilize existing
facilities, deliveries and services already performed by
Supplier in exchange for reasonable payment.
13.5 Siemens Energy shall also be entitled to claim
damages for defects in the Supply (“ Defect ”) and may
make other claims under the Agreement or at law,
subject to the limitations in Article 19.
14. WARRANTY
14.1 Unless otherwise agreed, the warranty period is 24
months (“ Warranty Period ”) and shall commence upon
delivery and acceptance of all parts of the Supply.
14.2 Siemens Energy shall endeavor to notify Supplier
of any Defects within a reasonable period of time after
detection.
14.3 If Siemens Energy notifies Supplier of a Defect
within the Warranty Period, Siemens Energy may elect
at its discretion to negotiate a reduction in the Agreement
Price or to have Supplier rectify or replace the Defect (as
applicable) at Supplier’s expense.
14.4 Supplier shall be liable for any and all costs,
expenses and damages incurred by Siemens Energy as
a result of Defects, subject to the limitations in Article 20.
14.5 If Supplier does not carry out rectification or deliver
replacement(s) for Defects as requested within a
reasonable timeframe set by Siemens Energy, Siemens
Energy may, at Supplier’s expense, undertake any
rectification or replacement itself or arrange for a third
party to do so.
14.6 If Supplier performs warranty Work during the
Warranty Period, the Warranty Period for the redelivered
or rectified part of the Supply shall be extended by one
year. For the remaining part(s) of the Supply, the
Warranty Period shall be extended only by the period of
time during which the Supply is not fully operative due to
the Defect(s).
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 515. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND RIGHTS OF
USE
15.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Supplier
(and its licensors) grants to Siemens Energy and its
customers (including any party acting on their behalf) a
non-exclusive, perpetual, worldwide, sublicensable and
royalty free license to use any intellectual property rights
and similar rights (“ IP Rights ”) necessary in order to sell,
offer to sell, export, import, operate, repair, modify,
maintain, enhance and extend the Supply, in addition to
any other IP Rights necessary to fulfill the purpose of this
Agreement. In addition to the rights granted under the
preceding sentence, if Supplier is or ought to be aware
of any IP Rights Siemens Energy have granted or will
grant to its customers in relation to the Supply, the rights
granted by Supplier under this Agreement to Siemens
Energy shall be sufficient for Siemens Energy to fulfill
Siemens Energy’ obligation to license IP Rights to its
customers.
15.2 Without the prior written consent of Siemens
Energy, Supplier may not include in the Supply any
software (or other materials) subject to a copyleft or
share-a-like license, i.e. a license which requires that a
derivative work based on software (or other materials)
subject to said license must be distributed and/or made
available subject to said license, or a license which
contains similar terms.
15.3 All drawings, specifications, and any other property
or materials to be furnished to Supplier by or for Siemens
Energy, for use in the performance of this Agreement,
shall remain the property of Siemens Energy. The
Supply and all drawings, specifications, and any other
property or materials to be furnished to Siemens Energy
by or for Supplier, shall become the property of Siemens
Energy, unless otherwise agreed in writing.
16. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENTS
Supplier will defend, indemnify, and hold Siemens
Energy (and its customers and any party acting on their
behalf) harmless against any third-party action, suit, or
proceeding (“ Claim ”) against Siemens Energy (and its
customers and any party acting on their behalf) to the
extent such Claim is based upon an allegation that the
Supply infringes IP Rights granted to Siemens Energy
(and its customers and any party acting on their behalf)
under this Agreement.
17. CONFIDENTIALITY AND DATA PROTECTION
17.1 Supplier shall treat as confidential the knowledge
and findings, documents, terms of reference, business
processes or other information that it receives from or
about Siemens Energy in the context of performing and
concluding the Agreement which are - whether disclosed
in tangible form or orally, visually or via electronic
communication, including internet-based provision of
information - marked as or pronounced to be
"Confidential" or similarly labelled by Siemens Energy
(“Confidential Information ”).17.2 Supplier shall keep the Confidential Information
confidential beyond the term of the Agreement, for as
long as and insofar as such Confidential Information has
not become publicly known through legal proceedings or
Siemens Energy has not consented in writing to its
transfer in the individual instance.
17.3 Supplier shall however be entitled to disclose
Confidential Information where the Confidential
Information: (a) was in the public domain prior to
Supplier’s receipt thereof; (b) was in Supplier’s
possession prior to its receipt thereof through no breach
of any confidentiality obligation; (c) was received from a
third party through no breach of any confidentiality
obligation, and where it is necessary to disclose
Confidential Information to: (d) subcontractors for
performance of the Agreement (however subject to their
giving equivalent confidentiality undertakings); and (e)
government bodies and other public authorities to
comply with applicable laws and regulations.
17.4 Insofar as Supplier is granted access to personal
data in connection with the Agreement, Supplier shall
comply with the statutory provisions relating to protection
of personal data and data privacy and shall enable
Siemens Energy to keep itself informed that such
provisions are being complied with.
18. CYBER- AND INFORMATION SECURITY
18.1 Supplier shall take appropriate measures for
storage of data and for protection of its IT systems
against software bugs and viruses and unauthorized
access by third parties, in order to reasonably protect
information received from Siemens Energy and the
Supply against loss, modification, forwarding or access
by unauthorized third parties.
18.2 Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and
technical measures to ensure the confidentiality,
authenticity, integrity and availability of Supplier
Operations as well as products and services. These
measures shall be consistent with good industry practice
and shall include an appropriate information security
management system consistent with standards such as
ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable).
18.3 “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes
and systems (including information systems), data
(including customer data), personnel, and sites, used or
processed by Supplier from time to time in the
performance of this Agreement.
18.4 Should products or services contain software,
firmware, or chipsets:
18.4.1 Supplier shall implement appropriate standards,
processes and methods to prevent, identify, evaluate
and repair any vulnerabilities, malicious code, and
security incidents in products and services which shall
be consistent with good industry practice and standards
such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent
applicable);
18.4.2 Supplier shall continue to support and provide
services to repair, update, upgrade and maintain
products and services including the provision of patches
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 6to Siemens Energy remedying vulnerabilities for the
reasonable lifetime of the products and services;
18.4.3 Supplier shall provide to Siemens Energy a bill of
materials identifying all third-party software components
contained in the products. Third-party software shall be
up-to-date at the time of delivery to Siemens Energy;
18.4.4 Supplier shall grant to Siemens Energy the right,
but Siemens Energy shall not be obliged, to test or have
tested products for malicious code and vulnerabilities at
any time, and shall adequately support Siemens Energy;
18.4.5 Supplier shall provide Siemens Energy a contact
for all information security related issues (available
during business hours).
18.5 Supplier shall promptly report to Siemens Energy all
relevant information security incidents occurred or
suspected and vulnerabilities discovered in any Supplier
Operations, services and products, if and to the extent
Siemens Energy is or is likely to be materially affected.
18.6 Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve
that its subcontractors and suppliers shall, within a
reasonable time, be bound by obligations similar to the
provisions of this section 18.
18.7 Upon Siemens Energy’s request, Supplier shall
provide written evidence of its compliance with this
section 18 including generally accepted audit reports
(e.g., SSAE-16 SOC 2 Type II).
19. PRODUCT LIABILITY
19.1 If Siemens Energy is made subject to any Claims
by third parties based on domestic or foreign product
liability law in connection with the Supply, Siemens
Energy shall notify Supplier thereof. Supplier shall
indemnify Siemens Energy against all such claims as
well as the costs arising from such claims (including but
not limited to legal assistance and court costs), provided
the claims are caused by a Defect in the Supply.
19.2 Supplier shall also reimburse Siemens Energy for
all costs caused arising from any reasonable risk
mitigation measures Siemens Energy takes in
connection with the claims, including but not limited to
warnings or precautionary recalls of a defective product.
Any costs arising in connection with the determination of
the risks involved with the claims (including but not
limited to expert costs) as well as Siemens Energy’s
internal administration and processing costs shall be
borne by Supplier provided the claims are caused by a
Defect in the Supply.
20. LIABILITY
20.1 Supplier’s  liability for breach of this Agreement shall
be limited to 100% of the Agreement Price. However, this
Article20.1 shall not exclude or limit Supplier’s liability
for: a) all taxes, duties  and fees arising in connection with
its provision of the Supply; b) Supplier’s infringements  of
the intellectual property rights of third parties and/or
Siemens Energy Group; c) Supplier’s failure to comply
with applicable laws; d) payment of any fines andpenalties imposed on Supplier by any governmental
authority due to Supplier’s default; e) Supplier’s own
costs in connection with performance of Supplier’s
warranty obligations under Article 14; and f) Supplier’s
failure to comply with its obligations concerning
confidentiality under Article 17, and shall not affect
Supplier’s obligation to perform the Agreement.
20.2 Supplier shall indemnify Siemens Energy from
Supplier’s indirect losses, and Siemens Energy shall
indemnify Supplier from Siemens Energy’s indirect
losses.
Indirect losses under this Article20.2 include loss of
earnings, loss of profit and loss of production.
20.3 The limitations in Article 20.1 and 20.2 above do not
apply in case of gross negligence or wilful misconduct.
21. SIEMENS ENERGY-PROVIDED ITEMS (Free
Issued)
21.1  Siemens Energy-provided Items remain the
property of Siemens Energy and shall be stored,
identified as the property of Siemens Energy,
administered separately at no expense to Siemens
Energy, and used only in providing the Supply. If there is
any reduction in value, damage and/or loss to such
Siemens Energy-provided Items, Supplier shall replace
the damaged item(s).
Supplier shall sign the Delivery Note/Packing List upon
accepting delivery of Siemens Energy-Provided Items,
and submit this to Siemens Energy stating the actual
delivery date.
21.2 Any processing or transformation of Siemens
Energy-provided Items shall take place on behalf of
Siemens Energy, and Siemens Energy shall immediately
own the resulting new or transformed product (“ New
Product ”). If this is impossible for legal reasons,
Siemens Energy and Supplier hereby agree that
Siemens Energy shall own the New Product at all times
during its processing or transformation. Supplier shall
safeguard the New Product on Siemens Energy’s behalf
at no extra cost to Siemens Energy and in so doing shall
exercise the duty of care of a merchant.
21.3 Supplier shall at no added cost to Siemens Energy
ensure the import and export of Siemens Energy-
Provided Items from Siemens Energy, DAP Siemens
Energy-specified location (Incoterms 2010).
22. INSURANCE
22.1 Supplier shall provide and maintain the following
insurance policies (“ Insurance Policies ”): a) general
third party liability insurance (including liability assumed
under the Agreement) in a sum of not less than
€5,000,000 (five million euros) per occurrence or series
of occurrences arising from any one event; b) employer’s
liability insurance which shall cover losses arising from
illness, personal injury or accidental death in Supplier, or
to the extent required by applicable laws if such are
stricter, under which the insurance amount shall at a
minimum be equivalent to 20G in case of death and 40G
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 7in case of 100% disability (where “G” means “Base
amount in Norwegian National Insurance
(Folketrygden)”); and  (c) all risks property cover for all
of Supplier’s property, plant and equipment.
22.2 The Insurance Policies shall include Siemens
Energy as co-insured and Supplier’s insurers shall waive
all and any rights of subrogation against any member of
Siemens Energy.
22.3 The Insurance Policies shall cover and be effective
from the date of signature of the Agreement and shall not
expire until the end of the Warranty Period. Siemens
Energy shall have no obligation to make payment to
Supplier until and unless Supplier furnishes certificates
evidencing compliance with this Article 22. Supplier shall
notify Siemens Energy in good time in the event that one
or more of the Insurance Policies is/are cancelled,
expire(s) or is/are changed so that it/they no longer
meet(s) the requirements of the Agreement.
23. ASSIGNMENT
Siemens Energy is entitled to assign, novate or
otherwise transfer its rights and obligations under the
Agreement, fully or partly to any third party, provided that
Siemens Energy can demonstrate that the assignee has
the financial strength required to fulfill Siemens Energy’s
obligations under the Agreement.  Supplier may not
assign its rights and obligations under the Agreement
without Siemens Energy’s prior written consent, such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
24. SUBCONTRACTING TO THIRD PARTIES
Supplier shall not subcontract to third parties not listed
on the approved vendor list contained in the Agreement
(if applicable) without obtaining Siemens Energy’s prior
written consent thereto.
25. EXPORT CONTROL AND FOREIGN TRADE
REGULATIONS
25.1 Supplier shall comply with all applicable export
control, customs and foreign trade regulations (“ Foreign
Trade Regulations ”). In particular, Supplier represents
and warrants that none of its Supply provided under this
Agreement contain products and/or services restricted
for import under the Foreign Trade Regulations
applicable to Siemens Energy, including but not limited
to Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014,
2022/263 or 765/2006, each as amended, and import
restrictions enforced by the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection. Supplier shall advise Siemens Energy in
writing within two weeks of receipt of Siemens Energy’s
order for the Supply - and in case of any changes without
undue delay - of any information and data required by
Siemens Energy to comply with all Foreign Trade
Regulations relating to export and import as well as re-
export, including without limitation: a) All applicable
export list numbers, including the Export Control
Classification Number in accordance with the U.S.
Commerce Control List (ECCN); b)  the statistical
commodity code in accordance with the current
commodity classification for foreign trade statistics andthe HS (Harmonized System) coding; c) the country of
origin (non-preferential origin), and – at Siemens
Energy’s request – Supplier’s declaration of preferential
origin (from European suppliers) or preferential
certificates (from non-European suppliers); and d) – at
Siemens Energy’s request –  evidence of country of
origin of the iron and steel inputs used for the processing
of the Supply.
25.2 Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or
damages incurred by Siemens Energy due to any failure
to perform the obligations in Article 25.1 unless such
failure is due to factors beyond Supplier’s control.
26. CODE OF CONDUCT, SECURITY IN THE
SUPPLY CHAIN
26.1 Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the
applicable legal system(s) and Siemens Energy shall
have the right to audit Supplier’s compliance with the
provisions of this Article 2626, such right to be exercised
reasonably. In particular, Supplier shall not engage,
actively or passively, nor directly or indirectly in any form
of bribery or corruption, in any violation of basic human
rights of employees or any child labour. Moreover,
Supplier shall be responsible for the health and safety of
its employees, shall act in accordance with applicable
environmental laws and shall use best efforts to promote
this Code of Conduct among its suppliers.
26.2 Supplier shall provide the organizational
instructions and take measures, particularly with regard
to security of premises, packing and transport, business
partners, personnel and information necessary to
guarantee supply chain security in accordance with the
requirements of internationally recognized initiatives
based on the WCO SAFE Framework of Standards such
as AEO or C-TPAT. Supplier shall protect the Supply
provided to Siemens Energy or third parties designated
by Siemens Energy against unauthorized access and
manipulation. Supplier shall only deploy reliable
personnel in providing the Supply and shall require its
suppliers to implement equivalent security measures.
26.3 In addition to other rights and remedies Siemens
Energy may have, Siemens Energy may terminate the
Agreement if Supplier fails to perform its obligations
under this Article26. However, if Supplier's breach is
capable of remedy, Siemens Energy’s right to terminate
is subject to the proviso that Supplier has not remedied
such breach within a reasonable grace period set by
Siemens Energy.
27. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, DUTIES TO
DECLARE DANGEROUS GOODS
27.1 Should the Supply contain goods which are subject
to statutorily-imposed substance restrictions and/or
information requirements (e.g. REACH, RoHS), Supplier
shall declare such substances in the web database
BOMcheck (www.BOMcheck.net) or in a format
reasonably required by Siemens Energy no later than the
date of the first delivery stipulated in the Agreement. The
foregoing shall only apply with respect to laws applicable
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 8at the registered seat of Supplier or Siemens Energy or
at the place of Delivery designated by Siemens Energy.
27.2 Supplier shall also declare all substances which are
set out in the “Siemens Energy List of Declarable
Substances” applicable at the time of Delivery in the
manner described above.
27.3 Should the Supply contain goods which are
classified as dangerous goods under international
regulations, Supplier shall no later than at the date of
confirmation of the order for the Supply inform Siemens
Energy thereof in a form agreed upon between Supplier
and Siemens Energy.
28. FORCE MAJEURE
28.1 Neither Party is liable for such delay or damages
which are due to events including but not limited to wars,
civil riots, hostilities, public disorder, nationwide strikes,
epidemics, currency and other restrictions imposed by
governmental authority or other events falling outside the
scope of control of a Party, (“ Force Majeure ”), provided
that the Party affected could not reasonably have been
expected to take such event into consideration while
entering into the Agreement and could not avoid or
overcome its effects. Force Majeure shall not include
shortage or lack of material and/or resources or shortage
of transport or non-performance of sub-suppliers.
28.2 If the fulfillment of the Agreement is delayed by
more than four (4) months due to Force Majeure, either
Party shall have the right to terminate the Agreement by
informing the other Party thereof in writing.
29. RESERVATION CLAUSE
Siemens Energy’s obligation to perform under the
Agreement is subject to the proviso that its performance
is not prevented by any impediments arising out of
national and international foreign trade or any embargos
or other sanctions.
30. GENERAL APPLICATION OF WAGE
AGREEMENTS
Supplier shall ensure that its employees and all
employees of its sub-contractors as a minimum receive
such wages and employment conditions as required
pursuant to the applicable law, including the Act Relating
to General Application of Wage Agreements etc.
(“Allmenngjøringsloven”).
If requested by Siemens Energy, Supplier shall produce
valid proof of fulfillment of these requirements.
In the event of non-compliance with the obligations
pursuant to this clause, Siemens Energy may withhold
remuneration to the extent necessary to cover possible
claims.31. PERMITS AND TAX RELATED ISSUES
Supplier shall ensure that all personnel working for
Siemens Energy have all necessary permits required to
perform the work in question, including, but not limited to
work and residency permits and ID-cards required within
building and construction industry if applicable.
All necessary permits for all assigned personnel shall be
acquired before the work for Siemens Energy shall
begin. If requested by Siemens Energy, Supplier shall
produce valid proof of all necessary permits.
Supplier shall ensure that all taxes related to the work
performed by the assigned personnel are reported and
paid in accordance with all applicable tax regulations. If
requested by Siemens Energy, Supplier shall produce
valid proof of tax payments and reporting.
Supplier shall upon request provide Siemens Energy
with a copy of the current certificates of proper payment
of its taxes and VAT (RF-1244), which are not older than
six months.
Supplier shall upon request provide a valid official
certificate from the tax authorities relieving Siemens
Energy of any responsibility with regards to any
obligation in accordance with the Tax Payments Act
(“Skattebetalingsloven”), including but not limited to
calculation, reporting and payment of taxes in relation to
this agreement.
Should Siemens Energy by the authorities be held liable
for taxes as mentioned above, Siemens Energy may
withhold an equal amount from any remuneration owed
to Supplier or offset the amount against outstanding
debts between the parties.
32. CHOICE OF LAW
The Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in
accordance with the laws of Norway.
33. DISPUTES
33.1  The Parties shall attempt, in good faith, to settle all
disputes amicably.
33.2 Unless otherwise agreed, all disputes arising in
connection with or as a result of the Agreement which
are not settled amicably shall be finally settled in the
ordinary courts with Oslo tingrett/District Court as legal
venue.
34. BAN ON RE-EXPORTS TO RUSSIA
34.1 Siemens Energy hereby prohibits Supplier, and
Supplier agrees, not to re-export and/or forward, directly
or indirectly, to Russia or for use in Russia any supplied
goods as well as technology (and related documentation,
regardless of the mode of provision) provided by
Siemens Energy to the Supplier under this Agreement.
34.2 Siemens Energy shall be entitled to terminate this
Agreement by written notice in the event of a breach by
Supplier of the obligation pursuant to Article 34.1 of this
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 9Agreement. Upon termination, Supplier shall pay to
Siemens Energy all costs and damages incurred by
Siemens Energy from such termination. In any case,
Supplier shall pay Siemens Energy liquidated damages
in the amount of 20% of the Agreement Price.
34.3 Notwithstanding the provision in Article 34.2,
Supplier shall indemnify and hold harmless Siemens
Energy in full from and against any claim, proceeding,
action, fine, loss, cost, and damage asserted by public
authorities or other third parties against Siemens Energy
arising out of or relating to a breach by Supplier of the
obligation under Article 34.1 of this Agreement, and
Supplier shall compensate Siemens Energy for all losses
and expenses incurred resulting therefrom.