Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 1STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR
PURCHASE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES - MINOR
1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1 “ Agreement ” means the framework agreement,
contract, purchase order or other commercial agreement
of which these general terms and conditions (“ Terms
and Conditions ”) are a part entered into between
Siemens Energy AS (“ Siemens Energy ”) and a supplier
(“Supplier ” ) .  “ Siemens Energy Group” means
Siemens Energy, its Affiliated Companies1 and any other
suppliers to Siemens Energy of any tier.
1.2 “Supply ” means the products, services, documents,
software and/or other deliverables which Siemens
Energy purchases from Supplier under the Agreement.
1.3 The parties are hereinafter referred to individually as
a “Party ” or collectively as the “ Parties ”.
1.4 For the avoidance of doubt, these Terms and
Conditions shall apply between the Parties in relation to
all future orders by Siemens Energy from Supplier under
the Agreement unless the Parties separately agree to the
contrary in writing.
Siemens Energy shall be not bound by the General
Terms and Conditions of Supplier unless Siemens
Energy explicitly agrees to such in writing, and neither
the acceptance of deliveries or services nor the making
of payments by Siemens Energy to Supplier shall
constitute such agreement.
2. GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF SUPPLIER –
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT
(HSE)
2.1 Supplier shall provide the Supply in a professional
manner in accordance with the Agreement.
2.2 Supplier shall comply with all statutory provisions on
health, safety and environment. Supplier shall use its
best efforts to minimize and if possible eliminate hazards
for the health, safety and environment for the
performance of the Works and ensure that no persons
nor the environment  suffer any injury. Supplier shall give
priority to safety in order to protect life, health, property
and environment.
2.3 If any incident occurs in connection with the Work
leading to one or more days of incapacity of any person
or if the Supplier becomes aware of any event or
circumstances in connection with the Work which could
have caused this, Supplier shall immediately inform
Siemens Energy and shall without undue delay, a)
execute a root cause analysis of the incident, b)
determine appropriate measures to exclude similar
incidents in the future, c) define time periods for the
1Affiliated Company means in accordance with the Norwegian
Public Limited Liability Companies Act (“ the Act ”) the parent
company of any of the Parties or any company which undermeasures to be implemented and d) provide Siemens
Energy with a written report containing sufficient detail
on the root cause, the measures determined and the
time periods defined. Supplier shall support any
additional investigation conducted by Siemens Energy.
3. SUPPLY PROPERTIES
3.1 Supplier warrants that the Supply shall be in
accordance with the Agreement, free of any liens or
defect in title, new and produced with raw materials
which are free of any defect and which are new and fully
functional. The Supplier further warrants that the Supply
shall be fit for its intended purpose and that it shall
comply with official and legal provisions and safety
regulations of the countries of production and
destination. Siemens Energy may return any defective
goods to Supplier at Supplier's cost and demand
replacement in accordance with the Agreement.
3.2 All work performed in connection with making the
Supply (“ Work ”) shall be carried out to the highest
standard of care and workmanship, using only qualified
and trained personnel.
3.3 The Supply shall be developed and delivered in
accordance with the latest version of ISO 9001 or other
equivalent quality standard, as applicable. The warning
concept (use of the signal words and the warning
triangle, and structure of the warning text) shall comply
with the standards of the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) for equipment to be used outside
U.S.A., and the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) for equipment to be used in U.S.A.
3.4 Siemens Energy and its authorized agents and
representatives and/or a third party appointed by
Siemens Energy and reasonably acceptable to Supplier,
shall be entitled (but not obliged) to conduct – also at
Supplier’s premises – inspections and audits in order to
verify that Supplier adheres to such quality standard(s).
3.5 Any inspection or audit may only be conducted upon
prior written notice of Siemens Energy, during regular
business hours, in accordance with the applicable data
protection law and shall neither unreasonably interfere
with Supplier’s business activities nor violate any of
Supplier’s confidentiality agreements with third parties.
Supplier shall reasonably cooperate in any inspection or
audit conducted. Each Party shall bear its expenses in
connection with such inspections/audits.
4. DELIVERY AND DELAY
4.1 Unless otherwise agreed, and subject to Article 8, the
delivery term shall be DAP (Delivered at Place)
Incoterms 2010, and the point in time and place at which
delivery occurs (“ Delivery ”) shall be determined
accordingly.
sections 1-3 of the Act is to be regarded as a subsidiary
company of that parent company or of a Party.
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 24.2 Siemens Energy shall be notified immediately if
Supplier becomes aware of a potential delay to delivery
of the Supply or parts thereof and/or to the Agreement
schedule (“ Agreement Schedule ”). Such notice shall
state the reason for the delay and proposed measures to
mitigate such delay. If Supplier fails to inform Siemens
Energy of a potential delay, Supplier shall be liable for
any losses Siemens Energy may suffer due to Supplier’s
failure to notify, subject to the limitations in Article 16.1.
4.3 Supplier shall undertake all reasonable measures
(e.g. shift work, overtime) in order to avoid delays. The
costs for such measures shall be borne by Supplier.
4.4 If Supplier’s delivery of the Supply is delayed in
relation to the Agreement Schedule, Siemens Energy
shall be entitled to claim liquidated damages in the
amount of 0,2 % of the total sum payable by Siemens
Energy under the Agreement (“ Agreement Price ”) per
commenced calendar day of delay, said liquidated
damages not to exceed 10% of the Agreement Price.
4.5 Siemens Energy may withhold any liquidated
damages to which it becomes entitled from any
payments due to Supplier under the Agreement.  Upon
receipt of notice from Siemens Energy, Supplier shall
issue Siemens Energy with a credit note for the amount
of liquidated damages withheld.  The payment of
liquidated damages by Supplier shall not affect any of
Siemens Energy’s other contractual or legal rights
arising from Supplier’s late Delivery or performance, and
shall not release Supplier from its other contractual or
legal obligations arising under the Agreement.
5. PACKING AND DISPATCH
5.1 Packing shall be suitable for the Supply and the
intended method of transport and in compliance with the
requirements specified in these Terms and Conditions
and elsewhere in the Agreement. Any loss or damage to
the Supply resulting from defective packing shall be
made good by Supplier.
5.2 Unless otherwise agreed, the costs of transport and
packaging shall be borne by Supplier.
All additional costs arising from Supplier’s failure to
conform with the transport requirements for the Supply
shall be borne by Supplier.
5.3 Each shipment shall include a packing note or
shipment note with details of the contents as well as the
complete order number for the Supply. Notice of dispatch
shall be provided immediately with the same information.
5.4 If the transport is performed by a carrier
commissioned by Siemens Energy, Supplier shall submit
any necessary information and data to the carrier
concerning dangerous goods in accordance with legal
requirements.
6. INVOICES
The Agreement number as well as any other supporting
documentation required in the Agreement shall be
detailed in or submitted together with each Invoice(“Invoice ”). Invoices shall not be payable by Siemens
Energy unless they include this information.
7. PAYMENT
7.1 Unless otherwise agreed, payments are to be made
within 60 days of receipt of invoice.
7.2 Payment does not constitute an acknowledgement
that the Supply was provided in accordance with the
Agreement (in particular in relation to quantity or quality),
and Siemens Energy retains the right to claim against
Supplier after paying for the Supply.
8. TRANSFER OF RISK AND TITLE
8.1 For Supply involving installation, commissioning or
other services subsequent to equipment delivery
(“Services ”), risk shall transfer to Siemens Energy upon
acceptance of the Services. For Supply not involving
Services risk shall transfer to Siemens Energy on
Delivery to Siemens Energy.
8.2 Without prejudice to Siemens Energy’s right to reject
the Supply thereafter, title to the Supply shall pass to
Siemens Energy when:
(a) Siemens Energy pays for the Supply; or
(b) Siemens Energy receives the Supply;
whichever occurs first.
8.3 Any portion of the Supply with respect to which title
has passed to Siemens Energy but which remains in the
care, custody and control of Supplier or its subcontractor
shall be clearly identified in a manner acceptable to
Siemens Energy as being the property of Siemens
Energy and shall be segregated from Supplier or its
subcontractors’ property to the extent possible.
9. TERMINATION DUE TO SUPPLIER’S
BREACH OF CONTRACT
9.1 Siemens Energy is entitled to terminate the
Agreement with immediate effect by notifying Supplier
when: a) Siemens Energy has become entitled to be paid
or it is evident that Siemens Energy will become entitled
to be paid the maximum amount of liquidated damages
in accordance with Article 4.4; b) Supplier is in material
breach of the Agreement; or c) Supplier becomes
insolvent or ceases to make its payments, an interim
insolvency administrator is appointed or insolvency
proceedings are applied for or are commenced in
relation to Supplier’s assets.
9.2 Upon termination of the Agreement in accordance
with this Article 9, Siemens Energy is entitled to take over
from Supplier the Supply, Siemens Energy-provided
Items, subcontracts, and other rights necessary to
enable Siemens Energy to complete the Supply, either
by itself or with the help of others.
9.3 If the Agreement is terminated, Supplier shall be
entitled to payment for the part of the Work performed
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 3and for plant and equipment taken over by Siemens
Energy pursuant to Art 9.2, less any amounts due from
Supplier to Siemens Energy.
9.4 If the Agreement is terminated in accordance with 9.1
(c), Siemens Energy shall be entitled to deduct its costs
and losses caused by Supplier’s insolvency from such
payment and may continue to utilize existing facilities,
deliveries and services already performed by Supplier in
exchange for reasonable payment.
9.5 Siemens Energy shall also be entitled to claim
damages for defects in the Supply (“ Defect ”) and may
make other claims under the Agreement or at law,
subject to the limitations in Article 16.
10. WARRANTY
10.1 Unless otherwise agreed the warranty period is 24
months (“ Warranty Period ”) and shall commence upon
delivery and acceptance of all parts of the Supply.
10.2 Siemens Energy shall endeavor to notify Supplier
of any Defects within a reasonable period of time after
detection.
10.3 If Siemens Energy notifies Supplier of a Defect
within the Warranty Period, Siemens Energy may elect
at its discretion to negotiate a reduction in the Agreement
Price or to have Supplier rectify or replace the Defect (as
applicable) at Supplier’s expense.
10.4 Supplier shall be liable for any and all costs,
expenses and damages incurred by Siemens Energy as
a result of Defects, subject to the limitations in Article 16.
10.5 If Supplier does not carry out rectification or deliver
replacement(s) for Defects as requested within a
reasonable timeframe set by Siemens Energy, Siemens
Energy may, at Supplier’s expense, undertake any
rectification or replacement itself or arrange for a third
party to do so.
10.6 If Supplier performs warranty Work during the
Warranty Period, the Warranty Period for the redelivered
or rectified part of the Supply shall be extended by one
year. For the remaining part(s) of the Supply, the
Warranty Period shall be extended only by the period of
time during which the Supply is not fully operative due to
the Defect(s).
11. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND RIGHTS
OF USE
11.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Supplier
(and its licensors) grants to Siemens Energy and its
customers (including any party acting on their behalf) a
non-exclusive, perpetual, worldwide, sublicensable and
royalty free license to use any intellectual property rights
and similar rights (“IP Rights”) necessary in order to sell,
offer to sell, export, import, operate, repair, modify,
maintain, enhance and extend the Supply, in addition to
any other IP Rights necessary to fulfill the purpose of this
Agreement.11.2 Without the prior written consent of Siemens
Energy, Supplier may not include in the Supply any
software (or other materials) subject to a copyleft or
share-a-like license, i.e. a license which requires that a
derivative work based on software (or other materials)
subject to said license must be distributed and/or made
available subject to said license, or a license which
contains similar terms.
11.3 All drawings, specifications, and any other property
or materials to be furnished to Supplier by or for Siemens
Energy, for use in the performance of this Agreement,
shall remain the property of Siemens Energy. The
Supply and all drawings, specifications, and any other
property or materials to be furnished to Siemens Energy
by or for Supplier, shall become the property of Siemens
Energy, unless otherwise agreed in writing.
12. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
INFRINGEMENTS
Supplier will defend, indemnify, and hold Siemens
Energy (and its customers and any party acting on their
behalf) harmless against any third-party action, suit, or
proceeding (“ Claim ”) against Siemens Energy (and its
customers and any party acting on their behalf) to the
extent such Claim is based upon an allegation that the
Supply infringes IP Rights granted to Siemens Energy
(and its customers and any party acting on their behalf)
under this Agreement.
13. CONFIDENTIALITY AND DATA PROTECTION
13.1 Supplier shall treat as confidential the knowledge
and findings, documents, terms of reference, business
processes or other information that it receives from or
about Siemens Energy in the context of performing and
concluding the Agreement which are - whether disclosed
in tangible form or orally, visually or via electronic
communication, including internet-based provision of
information - marked as or pronounced to be
"Confidential" or similarly labelled by Siemens Energy
(“Confidential Information ”).
13.2 Supplier shall keep the Confidential Information
confidential beyond the term of the Agreement, for as
long as and insofar as such Confidential Information has
not become publicly known through legal proceedings or
Siemens Energy has not consented in writing to its
transfer in the individual instance.
13.3 Supplier shall however be entitled to disclose
Confidential Information where the Confidential
Information: (a) was in the public domain prior to
Supplier’s receipt thereof; (b) was in Supplier’s
possession prior to its receipt thereof through no breach
of any confidentiality obligation; (c) was received from a
third party through no breach of any confidentiality
obligation, and where it is necessary to disclose
Confidential Information to: (d) subcontractors for
performance of the Agreement (however subject to their
giving equivalent confidentiality undertakings); and (e)
government bodies and other public authorities to
comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 413.4 Insofar as Supplier is granted access to personal
data in connection with the Agreement, Supplier shall
comply with the statutory provisions relating to protection
of personal data and data privacy and shall enable
Siemens Energy to keep itself informed that such
provisions are being complied with.
14. CYBER- AND INFORMATION SECURITY
14.1 Supplier shall take appropriate measures for
storage of data and for protection of its IT systems
against software bugs and viruses and unauthorized
access by third parties, in order to reasonably protect
information received from Siemens Energy and the Work
against loss, modification, forwarding or access by
unauthorized third parties.
18.2 Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and
technical measures to ensure the confidentiality,
authenticity, integrity and availability of Supplier
Operations as well as products and services. These
measures shall be consistent with good industry practice
and shall include an appropriate information security
management system consistent with standards such as
ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable).
14.3 “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes
and systems (including information systems), data
(including customer data), personnel, and sites, used or
processed by Supplier from time to time in the
performance of this Agreement.
14.4 Should products or services contain software,
firmware, or chipsets:
14.4.1 Supplier shall implement appropriate standards,
processes and methods to prevent, identify, evaluate
and repair any vulnerabilities, malicious code, and
security incidents in products and services which shall
be consistent with good industry practice and standards
such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent
applicable);
14.4.2 Supplier shall continue to support and provide
services to repair, update, upgrade and maintain
products and services including the provision of patches
to Siemens Energy remedying vulnerabilities for the
reasonable lifetime of the products and services;
14.4.3 Supplier shall provide to Siemens Energy a bill of
materials identifying all third-party software components
contained in the products. Third-party software shall be
up-to-date at the time of delivery to Siemens Energy;
14.4.4 Supplier shall grant to Siemens Energy the right,
but Siemens Energy shall not be obliged, to test or have
tested products for malicious code and vulnerabilities at
any time, and shall adequately support Siemens Energy;
14.4.5 Supplier shall provide Siemens Energy a contact
for all information security related issues (available
during business hours).
14.5 Supplier shall promptly report to Siemens Energy all
relevant information security incidents occurred or
suspected and vulnerabilities discovered in any Supplier
Operations, services and products, if and to the extent
Siemens Energy is or is likely to be materially affected.14.6 Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve
that its subcontractors and suppliers shall, within a
reasonable time, be bound by obligations similar to the
provisions of this section 14.
14.7 Upon Siemens Energy’s request, Supplier shall
provide written evidence of its compliance with this
section 14 including generally accepted audit reports
(e.g., SSAE-16 SOC 2 Type II).
15. PRODUCT LIABILITY
15.1 If Siemens Energy is made subject to any claims by
third parties based on domestic or foreign product liability
law in connection with the Supply, Siemens Energy shall
notify Supplier thereof. Supplier shall indemnify Siemens
Energy against all such claims as well as the costs
arising from such claims (including but not limited to legal
assistance and court costs), provided the claims are
caused by a Defect in the Supply.
15.2 Supplier shall also reimburse Siemens Energy for
all costs caused arising from any reasonable risk
mitigation measures Siemens Energy takes in
connection with the claims, including but not limited to
warnings or precautionary recalls of a defective product.
Any costs arising in connection with the determination of
the risks involved with the claims (including but not
limited to expert costs) as well as Siemens Energy’s
internal administration and processing costs shall be
borne by Supplier provided the claims are caused by a
Defect in the Supply.
16. LIABILITY
16.1 Supplier’s  liability for breach of this Agreement shall
be limited to 100% of the Agreement Price. However, this
Article 16.1 shall not exclude or limit Supplier’s liability
for: a) all taxes, duties  and fees arising in connection with
its provision of the Supply; b) Supplier’s infringements  of
the intellectual property rights of third parties and/or
Siemens Energy Group; c) Supplier’s failure to comply
with applicable laws; d) payment of any fines and
penalties imposed on Supplier by any governmental
authority due to Supplier’s default; e) Supplier’s own
costs in connection with performance of Supplier’s
warranty obligations under Article 10; and f) Supplier’s
failure to comply with its obligations concerning
confidentiality under Article 13, and shall not affect
Supplier’s obligation to perform the Agreement.
16.2 Supplier shall indemnify Siemens Energy from
Supplier’s indirect losses, and Siemens Energy shall
indemnify Supplier from Siemens Energy’s indirect
losses.
Indirect losses under this Article 16.2 include loss of
earnings, loss of profit and loss of production.
16.3 The limitations in Article 16.1 and 16.2 above do not
apply in case of gross negligence or wilful misconduct.
17. INSURANCE
17.1 Supplier shall provide and maintain the following
insurance policies (“ Insurance Policies ”): a) general
third party liability insurance (including liability assumed
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 5under the Agreement); b) employer’s liability insurance
which shall cover losses arising from illness, personal
injury or accidental death in Supplier, or to the extent
required by applicable laws; and (c) all risks property
cover for all of Supplier’s property, plant and equipment.
17.2 The Insurance Policies shall cover and be effective
from the date of signature of the Agreement and shall not
expire until the end of the Warranty Period. Supplier shall
notify Siemens Energy in good time in the event that one
or more of the Insurance Policies is/are cancelled,
expire(s) or is/are changed so that it/they no longer
meet(s) the requirements of the Agreement.
18. ASSIGNMENT
Siemens Energy is entitled to assign, novate or
otherwise transfer its rights and obligations under the
Agreement, fully or partly to any third party, provided that
Siemens Energy can demonstrate that the assignee has
the financial strength required to fulfill Siemens Energy’s
obligations under the Agreement.  Supplier may not
assign its rights and obligations under the Agreement
without Siemens Energy’s prior written consent, such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
19. EXPORT CONTROL AND FOREIGN TRADE
REGULATIONS
19.1 Supplier shall comply with all applicable export
control, customs and foreign trade regulations (“ Foreign
Trade Regulations ”). In particular, Supplier represents
and warrants that none of its Supply provided under this
Agreement contain products and/or services restricted
for import under the Foreign Trade Regulations
applicable to Siemens Energy, including but not limited
to Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014,
2022/263 or 765/2006, each as amended, and import
restrictions enforced by the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection. Supplier shall advise Siemens Energy in
writing within two weeks of receipt of Siemens Energy’s
order for the Supply - and in case of any changes without
undue delay - of any information and data required by
Siemens Energy to comply with all Foreign Trade
Regulations relating to export and import as well as re-
export, including without limitation: a) All applicable
export list numbers, including the Export Control
Classification Number in accordance with the U.S.
Commerce Control List (ECCN); b)  the statistical
commodity code in accordance with the current
commodity classification for foreign trade statistics and
the HS (Harmonized System) coding; c) the country of
origin (non-preferential origin), and – at Siemens
Energy’s request – Supplier’s declaration of preferential
origin (from European suppliers) or preferential
certificates (from non-European suppliers); and d) – at
Siemens Energy’s request –  evidence of country of
origin of the iron and steel inputs used for the processing
of the Supply.
19.2 Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or
damages incurred by Siemens Energy due to any failure
to perform the obligations in Article 19.1 unless such
failure is due to factors beyond Supplier’s control.20. CODE OF CONDUCT, SECURITY IN THE
SUPPLY CHAIN
20.1 Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the
applicable legal system(s) and Siemens Energy shall
have the right to audit Supplier’s compliance with the
provisions of this Article 20, such right to be exercised
reasonably. In particular, Supplier shall not engage,
actively or passively, nor directly or indirectly in any form
of bribery or corruption, in any violation of basic human
rights of employees or any child labour. Moreover,
Supplier shall be responsible for the health and safety of
its employees, shall act in accordance with applicable
environmental laws and shall use best efforts to promote
this Code of Conduct among its suppliers.
20.2 Supplier shall provide the organizational
instructions and take measures, particularly with regard
to security of premises, packing and transport, business
partners, personnel and information necessary to
guarantee supply chain security in accordance with the
requirements of internationally recognized initiatives
based on the WCO SAFE Framework of Standards such
as AEO or C-TPAT. Supplier shall protect the Supply
provided to Siemens Energy or third parties designated
by Siemens Energy against unauthorized access and
manipulation. Supplier shall only deploy reliable
personnel in providing the Supply and shall require its
suppliers to implement equivalent security measures.
20.3 In addition to other rights and remedies Siemens
Energy may have, Siemens Energy may terminate the
Agreement if Supplier fails to perform its obligations
under this Article 20. However, if Supplier's breach is
capable of remedy, Siemens Energy’s right to terminate
is subject to the proviso that Supplier has not remedied
such breach within a reasonable grace period set by
Siemens Energy.
21. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, DUTIES
TO DECLARE DANGEROUS GOODS
21.1 Should the Supply contain goods which are subject
to statutorily-imposed substance restrictions and/or
information requirements (e.g. REACH, RoHS), Supplier
shall declare such substances in the web database
BOMcheck (www.BOMcheck.net) or in a format
reasonably required by Siemens Energy no later than the
date of the first delivery stipulated in the Agreement. The
foregoing shall only apply with respect to laws applicable
at the registered seat of Supplier or Siemens Energy or
at the place of Delivery designated by Siemens Energy.
21.2 Supplier shall also declare all substances which are
set out in the “Siemens Energy List of Declarable
Substances” applicable at the time of Delivery in the
manner described above.
21.3 Should the Supply contain goods which are
classified as dangerous goods under international
regulations, Supplier shall no later than at the date of
confirmation of the order for the Supply inform Siemens
Energy thereof in a form agreed upon between Supplier
and Siemens Energy.
Applicable for Siemens Energy AS – Norway – Version: June 2024
 622. FORCE MAJEURE
22.1 Neither Party is liable for such delay or damages
which are due to events including but not limited to wars,
civil riots, hostilities, public disorder, nationwide strikes,
epidemics, currency and other restrictions imposed by
governmental authority or other events falling outside the
scope of control of a Party, (“ Force Majeure ”), provided
that the Party affected could not reasonably have been
expected to take such event into consideration while
entering into the Agreement and could not avoid or
overcome its effects. Force Majeure shall not include
shortage or lack of material and/or resources or shortage
of transport or non-performance of sub-suppliers.
22.2 If the fulfillment of the Agreement is delayed by
more than four (4) months due to Force Majeure, either
Party shall have the right to terminate the Agreement by
informing the other Party thereof in writing.
23. RESERVATION CLAUSE
Siemens Energy’s obligation to perform under the
Agreement is subject to the proviso that its performance
is not prevented by any impediments arising out of
national and international foreign trade or any embargos
or other sanctions.
24. CHOICE OF LAW
The Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in
accordance with the laws of Norway.
     25.   DISPUTES
25.1  The Parties shall attempt, in good faith, to settle all
disputes amicably.
25.2 Unless otherwise agreed, all disputes arising in
connection with or as a result of the Agreement which
are not settled amicably shall be finally settled in the
ordinary courts with Oslo tingrett/District Court as legal
venue.
26. BAN ON RE-EXPORTS TO RUSSIA
26.1  Siemens Energy hereby prohibits to Supplier, and
Supplier agrees, not to re-export and/or forward, directly
or indirectly, to Russia or for use in Russia any supplied
goods as well as technology (and related documentation,
regardless of the mode of provision) provided by
Siemens Energy to the Supplier under this Agreement.
26.2 Siemens Energy shall be entitled to terminate this
Agreement by written notice in the event of a breach by
Supplier of the obligation pursuant to Artilce 26.1 of this
Agreement. Upon termination, Supplier shall pay to
Siemens Energy all costs and damages incurred by
Siemens Energy from such termination. In any case,
Supplier shall pay Siemens Energy liquidated damages
in the amount of 20% of the purchase the Agreement
Price.26.3 Notwithstanding the provision in Article 26.2,
Supplier shall indemnify and hold harmless Siemens
Energy in full from and against any claim, proceeding,
action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public
authorities or other third parties against Siemens Energy
arising out of or relating to a breach by Supplier of the
obligation under Article 26.1 of this Agreement and
Supplier shall compensate Siemens Energy for all losses
and expenses incurred resulting therefrom.