Page  1 of 8  
  
General  conditions  for subcontracting  works  and services  
Date:  March  9th, 2023 
1. Development  of the works  
1.1 Execution  of the works  
The SUBCONTRACTOR  declares  that it has its own  productive  organization,  and has the material  and personal  resources  
(managerial  and productive) necessary  to carry out  the subcontracted  activities.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR will assign the necessary persons to carry out the requested work to fulfill its obligations. The people th at 
the SUBCONTRACTOR designates to carry out the aforementioned works will be exclusively under its direction and dependence,  
witho ut being obliged  to carry  out orders  or follow  instructions  that do not emanate  from  its hierarchical  structure.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR  reserves  the right  to assign  for the performance  of the work,  those  people  who,  being  under  its 
dependence,  deems  appropriate  and have  the experience  and training  that are objectively  required.  Likewise,  the 
SUBCONTRACTOR  has the right  to replace  them  during  the execution  of the works,  without  this being  able  to determine  a delay  
in the fulfillment of the established deadlines or terms or a decrease in the quality of the services provided. Notwithstandi ng the  
foregoing, the replacement of the professionals who are performing the work must be done by professionals of the same or  
higher qualification  and,  always  in such  a way  that the work  or service provided  is not altered.  
On the other hand, the contracted personnel who provide services that are the object of this contract, may not be considered  
either in fact or in law an employee of  SIEMENS ENERGY, neither during  the validity of the ORDER, nor at its completion,  
whatever t he reason and the form by which the one that rescinds or cancels the ORDER, depending solely and exclusively on the  
SUBCONTRACTOR for all purposes, including labor, so in the fulfillment of their obligations they will provide service subject  to the  
instruc tions  issued  by the SUBCONTRACTOR.  
1.2 Responsibility  of the SUBCONTRACTOR, regarding  the personnel  employed in  the performance  of the  work  
The SUBCONTRACTOR is obliged to comply, in  relation to the people who carry out the work contracted under its dependence  
and direction, with all tax, labor, Social Security and any other obligations, and SIEMENS ENERGY may expressly demand that  
compliance  with  any of these  requirements  to the SUBCONTRACTOR,  who  must  provide  the documentation  requested  in section  
10. Documen tation to be provided by the SUBCONTRACTOR together with the confirmation of the purchase ORDER and within a  
period  of 10 calendar  days.  Without  this documentation,  SIEMENS  ENERGY  may  cancel  the aforementioned  purchase  ORDER  at 
no cost,  and without prejudice  to any claim  to which  SIEMENS  ENERGY is  entitled.  
Likewise,  the SUBCONTRACTOR  declares  to know  and have,  theoretically  and practically,  adequately  trained  its workers,  
employees in the performance of the work, in compliance with the applicable individual and collective occupational health and  
safety  standards,  for which  reason the  penalties that  the labor  authority  may  impose  in this matter  will be its sole  responsibilit y. 
1.3 Coordination  of the works  
SIEMENS ENERGY and the SUBCONTRACTOR will designate within their respective templates, a representative each, who will act  
as coordinator and interlocutor between the parties for all those questions or incidents related to the execution of the cont racted  
works. Said coordinators will meet regularly and with the periodicity that the practice advises and, in any case, at the end o f the  
activities or milestones of the Services or Works that are more significant. Said coordinators will review the status of the works  
and adopt  the pertinent  decisions  in relation to  them.  
In accordance  with  the foregoing,  for any indication  or clarification  that SIEMENS  ENERGY  wants  to make  to the 
SUBCONTRACTOR's workers regarding the contracted service, or vice versa, it should be addressed directly to the designated  
interlocutor. The coordinator of the SUBCONTRACTOR shall have sufficient authority to exercise the powers of organization and  
managem ent directly over  their workers, independently  of the  organization  and management  of SIEMENS  ENERGY.  
1.4 Realization  conditions  
The works  will be adjusted  to the official  provisions  related  to them, which are  in force  at all times.  
The execution of the works r equested in the corresponding purchase ORDER will be  carried out in accordance with the Project  
and Specifications of the Work, if any, that the SUBCONTRACTOR declares to know and to which it expressly submits, as well as  in 
accordance with  the legal  provi sions  in force  in Spain and that  were mandatory  in the execution  of the Works  and Services.  
In the execution of the works, the SUBCONTRACTOR accepts all obligations derived from orders given by the OWNER or the END  
CUSTOMER to  SIEMENS  ENERGY  when they are  communicated by  the latter.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR may not stop carrying out units in the normal progress of the works and, if this occurs, it will be considered  
sufficient reason to rescind the purchase ORDER, SIEMENS ENERGY may pass the damages that this measure causes, against the  
pending invoices  of payment, in  addition  to the legal  actions  that SIEMENS  ENERGY  may take.  
SIEMENS ENERGY may carry out  by itself or through third parties  those contracted units that the SUBCONTRACTOR ceased to  
carry out in the normal progress of the works or had been carried out poorly by the same and not repaired within  the requested  
period.  The damages incurred  by such causes would be  directly  passed  on to the SUBCONTRACTOR.  
If there are discrepancies between the PARTIES, regarding the way of carrying out the contracted works, or in the quality of the 
materials  to be used  in the execution  thereof,  the SUBCONTRACTOR  will accept  the criteria  that the PROPERTY  or END  
CUSTOMER  holds in this regard  and consequently  waives  any claim  for these  reasons.  The SUBCONTRACTOR  undertakes  not to 
Page  2 of 8  
 maintain any intervention regarding the work or service, with the OWNER, END CUSTOMER, Facultative Management or the  
Technical Assistance of the same, if a representative of SIEMENS ENERGY is not present. Only in exceptional cases and with pr ior 
written  authorization he  may do  so. 
The SUBCONTRACTOR will execute the works or services requested in the purchase ORDER, in such a way that it does not hinder  
the normal  development  of the  rest of the Work  or Service.  
When any of the works contemplated in the scope  of application of Law 32/2006, regulating Subcontracting in the Construction  
Sector, are carried out and there are subcontracted services, the SUBCONTRACTOR will be obliged to comply and enforce its  
possible  subcontractors,  the limits  and obligations  established  by said Law and its development  regulations,  RD 1109/2007  
1.5 Work plan  and execution  deadlines  
The execution of the works will be adjusted to the Work Plan that SIEMENS ENERGY has drawn up for this purpose and agreed  
with  the SUBCONTRA CTOR.  The work included  in the ORDER  will be carried  out within  the period  indicated therein.  The 
SUBCONTRACTOR shall not be attributable to delays derived from the delivery of materials, plans and other elements that, bein g 
the sole and direct responsibil ity of SIEMENS ENERGY, must be delivered by the latter to the SUBCONTRACTOR, as long as it is  
sufficiently  proven  that the SUBCONTRACTOR,  despite  said cause,  has not been  able  to undertake  other  activities  that it had yet 
to carry out. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and should this occur, the SUBCONTRACTOR will take the initiative to adequate th e 
necessary  resources  to recover  the possible  delay.  
In the event that SIEMENS ENERGY deems it necessary, it may set, within the Wo rk Plan, partial deadlines for the execution of the  
aforementioned  works.  
1.6 Reception  of the works  
Once  the services  object  of the ORDER  have  been  correctly  completed  in accordance  with  the requirements  of the END  
CUSTOMER  or SIEMENS  ENERGY,  the Provisional  Reception  of the  executed  Services  will be carried  out, by means  of an 
exemplary duplicate Certificate, which will be signed by SIEMENS ENERGY and the SUBCONTRACTOR. As of the Provisional  
Acceptance Certificate, the warranty period provided for  in clause 4.7 of this document will start respectively. If the Services are  
not in a state to be received, an Certificate will be drawn up, also in duplicate, in which the defects that it suffers will be recorded,  
specifying in a precise and precise manne r the Services and obligations that the SUBCONTRACTOR must fulfill in order to remedy  
the defects observed, setting a period to correct them, after which a new recognition of the Services will be made in identic al 
conditions,  in order to  proceed to their P rovisional  Reception by means of  the appropriate Provisional Reception Certificate  of 
the same, as long as the totality of defects have been remedied. Otherwise, as many examinations as necessary must be carried  
out so that once all the defects have been c orrected and provided that the Services are functioning correctly, the Provisional  
Acceptance Certificate  can be signed.  
The Definitive Reception of the Services will occur once the parties have signed the Certificate of Conclusion of the guarant ee of  
the Services that make up the object of the Order. Said Certificate will be signed as long as the following conditions are met: t he 
SUBCONTRACTOR has carried out the repairs and any element covered by the guarantee and all the claims made up to that date,  
in relation to matters subject to the guarantee have been satisfactorily resolved. In the event that it is necessary to indicate a 
period to correct the defects that are found, the SUBCONTRACTOR will not be entitled to any amount by way of extension of the  
guarantee period, and will continue to be responsible during said extension of the guarantee period in the terms provided in the  
clause relating  to Provisional Reception.  
 
2. Labor  and Occupational  Hazards  Prevention  (OHP)  obligations  
The SUBCONTRACTOR undertakes to comply, as broad as the legislation in force at any time establishes, of all the obligations that 
in labor  and OHP matters  for the provision  of the services  requested in the  purchase  ORDER.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR, before the star t and during the execution of the activities, must keep the documentation reflected in  
Annex A updated, which must be sent to the corresponding Purchasing Department, complying with the periodicity that is  
expressed  in it regarding  the updating of  document s. 
In the same way, it must prove the payment of the salaries of the personnel you employ in the performance of the contracted  
services. The documentation will be permanently updated during the validity of the provision of the service or execution of t he 
contracted  works  
SIEMENS ENERGY, may require the SUBCONTRACTOR, at any time, to display the documentation proving compliance with the  
above obligations, as specified in clause 10 Documentation to be provided by the SUBCONTRACTOR, being empowered to  
withhold  pending payments as long as the SUBCONTRACTOR does not satisfy this commitment and / or unilaterally resolve the  
ORDER,  without the  SUBCONTRACTOR  being  entitled  to any compensation.  
In the event that the services requested are to attend any work included in the limits and obligations established by Law 32/ 2006  
and its implementing regulations and there are subcontracted services, the SUBCONTRACTOR will oblige itself and its possible  
subcontractors, to comply with the requirements of said law. The SUBCONTRACTOR and its subcontractors will certify their  
registration  in the REA and  will monitor  compliance  with  the subcontracting regime  at all times.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR, in accordance with A rt. 22 bis of RD 39/97, offers to provide the necessary preventive resources and with  
the training and sufficient means during the performance of risk activities and tasks carried out by him and that is thus col lected,  
in the evaluation  risk, initial  or su ccessive.  
Page  3 of 8  
 The SUBCONTRACTOR  shall  notify the  SIEMENS ENERGY  Occupational Hazards Prevention Officer of  the following  incidents  / 
accidents  that occur during the  execution  of the work, either of its own workers  or subcontractors:  
- Fatal acc idents  
- Serious  accidents  (fractures,  amputations  etc.)  
- Minor  Accidents  
- Accidents  involving  any type  of medical  attention,  including  first aid 
 
Likewise, it is necessary that any incident / accident without injury to persons, which occurs during the execution of the works, be  
communicated in the same way. The period of communication of these accidents / incidents will be 24 hours from the occurrence  
of the  event.  
 
The SUBCONTRACTOR agrees  to implement  in the  execution  of this contract, the  EHS budget  item  defined in  its offer.  
In each  intervention,  at the end of the work  that is the object  of this ORDER  and once  it has been  completed,  the 
SUBCONTRACTOR must leave the premises or facilities where the services were rendered empty and free of materials, packaging,  
remains, etc.  
2.1 Audits,  inspections  and visits  
During the activities that are the object of this ORDER, SIEMENS ENERGY may carry out audits, inspections and visits to be able to  
evaluate compliance with the legislation on OHP, as well as what is established in the Occupational Health and Safety Plan or  Risk 
Assessment  of the  contracted activities.  
 
3. SUBCONTRACTOR  Personnel  and Equipment  
The personnel  and equipment used by the  SUBCONTRACTOR in each  of the tasks must be adequate in quantity and quality for  
the work  to be carried  out and will fully  comply  with  the legislation,  regulations  and instructions  applicable  in the 
aforementioned  facilities.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR shall provide the employees he designates to perform the services with all the necessary equipment.  
Among  others,  in an enunciative and non -exhaustive  way:  
• Appropriate  work  clothes  
• The PPE (Personal  Protective E quipment) necessary  for the correct compliance  with  the OHP.  
• Adequate  and necessary  tools  to carry  out the work.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR's staff, own or subcontracted, assigned to the contracted service will be registered in the Social Security  
system, and the SUBCONTRACTOR will be up to date with the payments of salaries and contributions that the Law requires, in an y 
case. 
The coordinator  of the SUBCONTRACTOR  will give direct  orders  to its workers,  taking  responsibility  for complying  with  and 
enforcing all the  occupational  hazard  prevention  regulations  that affect  the personnel  under  its dependence.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR  will adopt  the appropriate  measures  so that no person  who  is not expressly  authorized  by SIEMENS  
ENERGY does not  have  access  to the facilities  where the  requested  work  is being  carried out.  
Both  the clothing  and the work  and personal  protection  equipment  that the SUBCONTRACTOR's  staff  dedicate  to the work  will 
bear  the distinctive  of the  same and will be renewed  as often  as necessary  to keep them  in good  condition at  all times.  
 
4. Economic conditions  
4.1 Prices  
The agreed price for the perfo rmance of the works agreed and regulated with this document is included in the purchase ORDER.  
Both parties agree that all amounts and associated expenses that the SUBCONTRACTOR may incur as a result of carrying out the  
work are included in the total price  indicated, without SIEMENS ENERGY being obliged to pay any other expenses or amounts not  
included  in the agreed  price.  
The prices established in the ORDER will be fixed and not revisable during the period of validity of the same. Price increase s over  
those  established in  the ORDER, or in  additions to  it, will not  be accepted,  except  in a new  agreement  between  the parties.  
Prices will  be understood to be net for SIEMENS ENERGY,  with the sole exception of  Value Added Tax (VAT) / IGIC / IPSI,  which  
will be  itemized  in invoices in  accordance with  current  regulations. All other taxes,  duties, fees,  contributions,  etc. that deriv e 
from the provision of the service and / or execution of the works will be paid by the SUBCONTRACTOR. If any of them had been  
paid by SIEMENS ENERGY,  SIEMENS ENERGY may deduct their amount directly from the certifications or amounts pending  
payment  to the SUBCONTRACTOR.  
4.2 Additional work  
By way  of example  and not  exclusively,  additional  costs  will not be acceptable  for requests based  on: 
• Lack  or unavailability  of mechanical  and / or human  resources.  
Page  4 of 8  
 • Carrying  out work  at night, on  public holidays  and / or on days  of more than  8 hours  and for carrying  out overtime.  
• Lack  of knowledge  of the scope  and / or of the works  and / or appearance  of unforeseen  stoppages.  
• Delays  and / or failures in  the delivery  and / or supply  of materials.  
Additionally, a price for labor is established according to a scale of categories that will be applicable for any additional work that  
SIEMENS  ENERGY  requests  from  the SUBCONTRACTOR.  The valuation  of each  particular  action  will be carried  out from  these  
labor prices  after the formal request  of SIEMENS ENERGY  and once it  has accepted the proposal to be presented by the  
SUBCONTRACTOR.  
4.3 Partial  certifications  
In the event that the parties agree, partial certifications may be made accord ing to the progress of the work or service, with a  
breakdown of each and every one of the works or services performed, solely and exclusively on the units performed and the  
prices  provided in  the ORDER.  
4.4 Form  and term  of payment  
According  to "General  Conditions  of Purchase of  SIEMENS  ENERGY",  annex C.  
4.5 Invoicing  
The SUBCONTRACTOR will issue the corresponding invoices within a maximum period of 30 days, once the amount reflected in  
them has accrued, in accordance with the conditions of the ORDER . The breakdown detailed therein will coincide with the one  
that appears  in the aforementioned  ORDER,  even  when  said breakdown  is only  indicative  for internal  use by SIEMENS  ENERGY.  
The reception at the SUBCONTRACTOR of the official SIEMENS ENERGY ORDER will be essential for the issuance and subsequent  
acceptance of an invoice. All invoices must reflect the purchase ORDER number that led to the completion of the work or servi ce, 
also identifying the position  held  in it. 
Invoices whose  date is  prior  to the date of  the Purchase  ORDER  will not be  accepted.  
4.6 Penalties  
If the SUBCONTRACTOR abandons the contracted supplies, works and / or services during the execution period, it expressly  
undertakes to pay the new price that SIEMENS ENERGY  would have to pay for the  execution of  the rest of said supplies, works  
and / or services, plus the  Amount  of the  agreed penalty  for breach of term  or quality, if applicable.  
Non-compliance  with  the Occupational  Risk Prevention regulations  
SIEMENS ENERGY may penalize the SUBCONTRACTOR for breaches of OHP. The penalties are defined in amount and form in  
Annex D “Procedure for Penalties to Subcontractors for breaches of OHP” and in Annex E “Procedur e for action against deviations  
and breaches of OHP”. Eventual breaches will be reliably communicated by SIEMENS ENERGY to the SUBCONTRACTOR through a  
technical  report.  
If the CUSTOMER  for whom  SIEMENS  ENERGY  executes  the work  applies  penalties  higher  than  those  established  in this Clause  as 
a result  of security  violations  attributable  to the SUBCONTRACTOR  or its subcontractors,  these  will be transferred  and assumed  
by the SUBCONTRACTOR.  
Activity  stoppage . 
The Subcontractor will assume the cost derived from the stoppage of the works that are being executed, either by the Safety  
Coordinator or by SIEMENS ENERGY due to a breach by the latter and / or its subcontractors in the application of the Health a nd 
Safe ty Plan  or the  work  procedures delivered.  
SIEMENS  ENERGY  reserves  the right  not to allow  access  to a specific  employee  of the SUBCONTRACTOR,  for a time  or 
permanently,  in the event  that he  or she  commits  an OHP  offense,  regardless  of other  penalties  that may  be imposed.  
Breach  of deadlines.  
If SIEMENS ENERGY is penalized by the CLIENT for non -compliance with deadlines, and it is shown that it was due to work  
stoppages or similar causes derived from breach of the OHP regulations by the SUBCON TRACTOR, said penalties will be directly  
passed  on to the SUBCONTRACTOR.  
The amount of the penalties may be deducted directly from the invoices / certifications, or any other amounts accrued by the  
SUBCONTRACTOR  that are pending payment.  
The penalties indicated are understood to be imposed without prejudice to other rights and actions that may correspond to  
SIEMENS ENERGY. The imposition of penalties will not prevent SIEMENS ENERGY from requiring the SUBCONTRACTOR to comply  
with its contractual obligations or compensation for damages to which SIEMENS ENERGY may be entitled as a consequence of the  
SUBCONTRACTOR's  breaches.  
Page  5 of 8  
 4.7 Warranty  
Once the END CUSTOMER has provisionally received the works that are the object of the ORDER and as long as there is no point  
pending correction by the SUBCONTRACTOR, a guarantee period will be opened for the same, until the former makes its final  
reception . 
This guarantee will mean that the SUBCONTRACTOR will repair or, if necessary, supply without charge to SIEMENS ENERGY the  
labor  and new  parts  or elements  that during the  mentioned  period  fail due to defects in materials  or defective  elements.  
Said defect s, failures or breakdowns must be repaired by the SUBCONTRACTOR in the shortest possible time. The costs of  
manufacturing, delivery, replacement, repair or any other will be borne by the SUBCONTRACTOR, as well as any other expenses  
arising from the repair,  such as labor, allowances, travel and any others. If the SUBCONTRACTOR does not carry out the repairs or  
replacements within the agreed term, SIEMENS ENERGY will have the right to carry them out at the SUBCONTRACTOR's account  
and risk,  the latter  assuming  each  and every one of  the costs  and expenses for  the execution  of said  Services.  
If the Services  should  be interrupted  due to reasons  for which  the SUBCONTRACTOR  is responsible,  or repairs  that the 
SUBCONTRACTOR has to carry out to fulfill the obligations assumed by it under the ORDER, the warranty period will be extended  
for a time  equal to  the total duration  of such  interruptions.  
 
5. Environmental  obligations  
Knowledge  and compliance with  Environment al Laws  and Standards  
The SUBCONTRACTOR, during the execution of the activities that are the object of each ORDER, will be obliged to know and  
comply with both the existing laws and provisions in force on the environment, whether at the municipal, regional , national or  
community  level,  as well as  the environmental  standards  defined  by SIEMENS  ENERGY.  
SIEMENS  ENERGY  will not  allow  workers  who do not  have  the necessary  training  in environmental  matters  to access  the facilities.  
The machinery and vehicles used by the SUBCONTRACTOR must have the corresponding approvals and legal reviews and the ITV  
(Vehicle  Technical Inspection),  if applicable.  
Waste  ownership  
The SUBCONTRACTOR, for all the purposes provided in the laws and provisions that are in force on waste, assumes the ownership  
and management of all waste generated as a result of the execution of the activities that are the object of this ORDER, unles s 
explicit agreement by  both  parties where  the responsibility for  waste  management  is documented.  
Waste  management  
The SUBCONTRACTOR, free of charge for SIEMENS ENERGY, will be responsible for the management, through an authorized  
manager in the Autonomous Comm unity in which the work is carried out, of the waste from the activities derived from the  
execution of this ORDER, committing to send SIEMENS ENERGY, on a monthly basis, a copy of the records related to said  
management.  The SUBCONTRACTOR shall  minimize,  as far as technically and economically feasible, the generation  of waste  in 
the performance of  the activities  that are  the object  of this  ORDER.  
Dangerous  waste  
The SUBCONTRACTOR shall be responsible, at its own expense, for the removal and transfer of waste considered hazardous,  
according to the legislation in force at the time of its generation, through an authorized manager in the Autonomous Communit y 
in which the work is carried out, being SIEMENS ENERGY , at any time, require documentary justification of said delivery to the  
aforementioned manager, all this up to the limit of the legally established period of 5 years, regardless of whether, within said 
period,  this ORDER  had expired  or was rescinded by  any of the  parties.  
The subcontractor will comply with all the requirements related to waste management stipulated in the applicable current  
legislation,  including Registration  as a waste producer  when  appropriat e. 
Demolition  and Construction  Waste  
In the event that demolition and construction waste is generated within the scope of the contracted works, the SUBCONTRACTOR  
must carry out a Demolition and Construction Waste Plan, in accordance with current legislatio n and the Construction and  
Demolition Waste Management Study provided by the SPONSOR and, in those cases in which it is required by SIEMENS ENERGY  
SA. The SUBCONTRACTOR must have the certificate accrediting the adequate management of construction and demol ition waste  
issued  by the  authorized  or recovery manager  (landfill, transfer  plant, etc.).  
Spills of  hazardous  substances  
In accordance with current legislation, it is forbidden to discharge into hydraulic networks. The SUBCONTRACTOR will adopt all  
the necessary  preventive  measures  to prevent  the discharge  of dangerous  substances  from  reaching  said hydraulic  networks.  
In the eve nt that the SUBCONTRACTOR causes a spill of dangerous substances on the ground in the development of the activities  
covered by this contract, it will be obliged to remove the substance and the affected area and manage it with authorized  
managers,  assuming  all the costs  generated.  The SUBCONTRACTOR  shall  guarantee  the complete  restoration  of the affected  land.  
SIEMENS ENERGY  audits,  inspections  and visits  
During the activities that are the object of this ORDER, SIEMENS ENERGY may carry out audits, inspections and visits to be ab le to  
evaluate  the environmental  practices  carried  out, providing  the SUBCONTRACTOR  the necessary  means  to carry them  out. These  
Page  6 of 8  
 visits will not release the SUBCONTRACTOR from the responsibilities that might arise in the event of bad environmental practi ces. 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  is empowered  to withhold  pending  payments  as long  as the SUBCONTRACTOR  does  not satisfy  this 
commitment and / or unilaterally terminate the service provision agreement, without the SUBCONTRACTOR being entitled to any  
compensation.  
 
6. Quality  Clauses  
The SUPPLIER  is responsible  for the quality  of its services  and supplies  that it delivers  to SIEMENS  ENERGY  regardless  of whether  
it manufactures  them  itself  or whether  it acquires  them  from  a third  party subcontracted  by it. 
The SUBCONTRACTOR will present, where appropriate, for approval by the SIEMENS ENERGY Project Manager its Quality Plan; If  
the one presented does  not have  it or is not accepted, it  will adhere to  the Quality  Plan approved for  the Work  or service.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR undertakes to comply, at all times, with the specifications of the current Quality Plan, those of the  
Technical Prescriptions  and those  derived  from  orders  from  the Works  Management.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR will present the documentation reques ted in each ORDER and in the Quality Plan and will submit to  
SIEMENS  ENERGY  when  requested, samples of each  of the materials to be used.  
SIEMENS ENERGY may return materials that do not comply with the quality standards specified in the technical documentat ion 
and in the specific ORDER. These rejected items will be returned to the SUBCONTRACTOR, at its expense, for its review and rep air 
before  being delivered back  to SIEMENS  ENERGY.  
 
7. Liability  for contingencies  and insurance  
The SUBCONTRACTOR will be liable for damages that may be caused to SIEMENS ENERGY or its clients or third parties, derived  
from the breach or defective fulfillment of  the obligations contained in this  DOCUMENT in the terms of  Article 1.101 and  
following of  the Civil Code, as well as of the fault or negligence in which both the SUBCONTRACTOR and the persons of the same  
dependents  or that it designates  for the provision  of services  may  incur,  by virtue  of the provisions  of Article  1902  and following  
of the same legal body.  
Likewise, the SUBCONTRACTOR undertakes to hold SIEMENS ENERGY or any company of its Group harmless, with respect to any  
type of liability that may arise in relation to the SUBCONTRACTOR's workers employed in the provision of the service, whe ther  
they  are compensatory,  subrogatory, salary  or of  any other  nature.  
By virtue of the foregoing, and in the event that any type of liability is imputed to SIEMENS ENERGY or any of the companies in its  
Group, whether direct, joint or subsidiary, with respect to the SUBCONTRACTOR's staff, this recognizes the right of SIEMENS  
ENERGY to repeat to the SUBCONTRACTOR the amounts that it is obliged to pay to comply with these responsibilities in the  
following  terms:  
• The right of repetition will include any amount that SIEMENS ENERGY must pay to the workers of the SUBCONTRACTOR, as a  
consequence of a judicial or administrative resolution, such as salaries, social security, compensation, fines from the Labor  
Inspection,  surcharges of  benefits, and  any others  of a similar  nature;  
• The amounts that SIEMENS ENERGY pays as severance pay will also be included, in the event of a judicial declaration of the  
existence of illegal assignment of workers, if they choose to join the S IEMENS ENERGY workforce, and SIEMENS ENERGY  
chooses  to terminate the aforementioned employment contracts;  
• The right of repetition will also include the expenses incurred by SIEMENS ENERGY as a result of lawsuits or judicial or  
extrajudicial proceedings rel ated to the workforce that affects the contracted service, such as legal expenses, procurement,  
costs  of resources  ... 
7.1 Insurance  
The SUBCONTRACTOR will be provided with a Civil Liability policy with a minimum coverage limit that covers the civil liabilit y that 
may legally correspond  to them  for carrying out  the activities carried out.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR will hold SIEMENS ENERGY harmless from any liability that it may incur against its END CUSTOMER or a  
third party and against all claims, costs and expenses incurred by the SUBCONTRACTOR as a result of a breach of the provision s of 
this ORDER by the SUBCONTRACTOR.  
SIEMENS  ENERGY  reserves  the right  to act against  the SUBCONTRACTOR  for damages  and / or administrative  penalties  suffered  
by SIEMENS  ENERGY  or by third parties,  produced  by its staff during the  performance of  the works or  services . 
The SUBCONTRACTOR shall hold SIEMENS ENERGY harmless for claims from third parties that are the result of the execution of  
the Works or services not in accordance with the provisions of the ORDER, as well as the personnel assigned to carry out the  
Works, based on the relationships derived from the ORDER; and for any penalty for breach of any of the obligations that it  
expressly or implicitly assumes by virtue of the same or that legally correspond to it. In the same way, the SUBCONTRACTOR wi ll 
be li able for any damage that may be caused to SIEMENS ENERGY, or its workers during the execution of the obligations that are  
the object  of the  ORDER or  as a result of  them.  
Page  7 of 8  
  
8. Confidentiality  
The SUBCONTRACTOR  will treat  this document  and ever ything  related  to the service  as confidential  information,  not being  able  
to communicate,  supply,  distribute  or publish  information  concerning  it; nor use it for the SUBCONTRACTOR's  own  purposes.  
Confidentiality will be maintained by the SUBCONTRACTOR until the end of this service provision and once it has ended, for a  
period of five years. Upon completion of the ORDER, the SUBCONTRACTOR will deliver to SIEMENS ENERGY all the information it  
has rec eived from it, including, but not limited to, plans, sketches, sketches, designs, calculations, technical specifications, lis t of 
materials, service plans, photographs, videos, development of ideas, concepts, knowledge or techniques or any other documents  
that contain confidential information.  
The SUBCONTRACTOR  also undertakes  to make  good  use of the SIEMENS  ENERGY  corporate  image.  
 
9. Termination  of the ORDER  
The ORDER may be resolved at the request of any of the parties for the general causes admitted by law . It is expressly established  
that the ORDER will  be resolved  for the following  reasons:  
• Liquidation,  embargo, or  any state  of insolvency  of the  parties that  endangers  or frustrates the  execution  of the  ORDER.  
• By mutual  agreement  of the parties.  
In both cases, the termination will be automatic as of the effective date, respectively, and will not generate any compensati on 
right  in favor  of the SUBCONTRACTOR.  
The serious breach by any of the parties of the obligations derived from the conditions of this DOCUMENT or from the conditions  
set forth  in the purchase  ORDER,  will empower  the other  party  to choose  between  urging  the resolution  or claiming  its 
fulfillment,  being  able,  in both  cases, to demand the  damages  and losses that  have been  incurred.  
Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the SUBCONTRACTOR may urge the resolution of the ORDER for  
serious  and repeated breach  by SIEMENS  ENERGY of  its payment  obligations.  
SIEMENS  ENERGY  may  urge the  resolution  of the ORD ER for the following  specific  reasons:  
• False, incomplete presentation or non -presentation of the documentation provided for in this DOCUMENT, especially that  
included in clause 10 Documentation to be provided by the SUBCONTRACTOR, as well as lack of communication of the  
modifications  that occur regarding its  content during  the execution  of the  same.  
• Refusal  or opposition  to the contractual powers of  control  and supervision  recognized  to SIEMENS  ENERGY.  
• Abandonment  of the works  or services  contracted  by the SUBCONTRACTOR  for more  than  2 working  days,  without  just 
cause.  
• By transmission,  assignment  or transfer  by the SUBCONTRACTOR  of all or part of its contractual  obligations,  including  the 
subcontracting of  all or part of the  works  or services, without prior  written  authorization from  SIEMENS  ENERGY.  
• Serious  breach  of confidentiality  duties  in the terms  assumed  in this DOCUMENT.  
• Due to Force  Majeure  that prevents  the execution  of all or the most  important  services  contracted  definitively  or for a 
period  of more  than  three  months.  
• Serious  breach  of any other  of the obligations  stipulated  in this DOCUMENT.  
• Failure to comply with the execution deadlines established in the Work Plan, regardless of what is established in clause 4.6  
Penalties, as well as insufficient personnel, equipment and / or repeated shortage of means used to carry out the work or  
services  contracted that  indicate, in  the opinion of  SIEMENS  ENERGY,  that the agreed  deadlines  will not be met.  
• The existence of three or more serious breaches by the Subcontractor in relation to the Occupational Hazards Prevention  
obligations  contained  in this ORD ER and  its annexes.  
In the event that the resolution had been caused by the SUBCONTRACTOR, SIEMENS ENERGY may cease to make the amounts  
pending payment effective until the final settlement is established, without this exempting it from its responsibilities with  the 
SUBCONTRACTOR  due to the work  that may  have  been  carried out  until  the moment  of resolution.  
The parties expressly agree, both  in cases of resolution of the ORDER, and of non -resolution, to exclude loss of profits, loss of  
information and  / or data  as concepts susceptible to  claim  for damages.  
SIEMENS ENERGY may terminate the Order in advance, for any reason, by sending a registe red letter or any other reliable means  
to the SUBCONTRACTOR 30 days in advance of the date on which the ORDER is intended to be resolved. In this case, the  
SUBCONTRACTOR  will only have  the right  to pay  for the services  it has provided  up to  the date of  resolution  of the  ORDER.  
 
10. Documentation  to be provided  by the SUBCONTRACTOR  
Before the start of the work, you must provide the documentation specified in the "List of documents to be provided by the  
SUBCONTRACTOR"  which  is included as  Annex  A and with  the periodicity  stipulated  therein  for each  document.  
The documentation must be uploaded to the eGestiona document platform at least 2 weeks prior to the start of the work and  
regardless  of the duration of  the work.  
Page  8 of 8  
 The documentation shall be updated with changes throughout the project and all documents listed below that are applicable to  
the subcontracted work  shall be  provided.  
In addition to the  related  documents, this  document  shall provide the documentation and  formats  requested  by Siemens  
Energy's customer, bearing in mind that said customer may additionally require uploading to one of its document platforms,  
management  to be performed  by the SUBCONTRACTOR.  
 
11. Corporate  responsibility in  the supply  chain  
1. The SUBCONTRACTOR must comply with the  principles and requirements of the "Code of Conduct for SIEMENS ENERGY  
Suppliers"  attached here  as Annex  B (hereinafter referred to  as the "Code  of Conduct").  
2. In the event that SIEMENS ENERGY requires it, the SUBCONTRACTOR shall provide, no more than once  a year (at its option) to  
SIEMENS ENERGY: (i) a written self -review in the format provided by SIEMENS ENERGY or (ii) a written report approved by  
SIEMENS  ENERGY  describing  the actions  taken or  to be taken  to ensure  compliance with  the Code of Conduct.  
3. SIEMENS  ENERGY,  its authorized  agents  and representatives  and / or third  parties  authorized  by it and reasonably  acceptable  
to the SUBCONTRACTOR, will be empowered (but not obliged) to carry out (including at the SUBCONTRACTOR's headquarte rs) 
inspections  in order  to verify  compliance  by part Provider's  Code of  Conduct.  
Inspections  may  only  be carried  out with  prior written  notification issued by SIEMENS ENERGY,  during  business  hours,  in 
accordance with applicable data protection laws and must not unreasonably interfere with the supplier's commercial activities  or 
violate any confidentiality agreement signed by the latter with third parties. The SUBCONTRACTOR shall reasonably cooperate  
with the inspections that are carried out. The SUBCONTRACTOR shall bear its own expenses in relation to said inspection;  
SIEMENS  ENERGY  will bear  its own  expenses.  
4. In addition to any other right and measure available to SIEMENS ENERGY, in the event of (i) mat erial or repeated failure of the  
SUBCONTRACTOR to comply  with the Code of Conduct or (ii) refusal to recognize SIEMENS ENERGY the right to inspection  
referred  to in the third  paragraph  of this article,  after providing  the SUBCONTRACTOR  with notification an d a reasonable  
opportunity to amend its conduct, SIEMENS ENERGY may terminate this ORDER and / or any purchase order issued accordingly,  
without  incurring  any liability  against  to the SUBCONTRACTOR.  
Material breaches include, but are not limited to, incidents  related to child labor, corruption and bribery, breaches of the  
environmental protection requirements included in the Code of Conduct. The notification and opportunity to remedy the non - 
compliance will not be applicable to violations of requirements and principles r elated to the work of minors, as established in the  
Code  of Conduct  or intentional  failures  in compliance  with  the requirements  regarding the  protection of  the environment.  
 
12. General  conditions  
For all those conditions that are not included in this document , the General Conditions of Purchase of SIEMENS ENERGY attached  
in Annex  C. 
 
13. Annexes  
 
13.1 Annex  A. List  of documents to  be provided by  the subcontractor  
13.2 Annex B.  Code  of Conduct  for SIEMENS  ENERGY  Suppliers  
13.3 Annex  C. General  Conditions  of Purchase  of SIEMENS  ENERGY  
13.4 Annex  D. Procedure  for penalties  to SUBCONTRACTORS  for breaches  of OHP  
13.5 Annex E.  Procedure  for action in  the event of  deviations  and breaches  in OHP  material  
 
 
Pa g e  1 | 3 
 
ANNEX a. List of documents to be provided by the subcontractor  
The documentation must be uploaded to the eGestiona document platform before the start of 
the work and regardless of the duration of the work.  
The documentation will be updated with the changes throughout the project and all the 
documents listed below that are applicable to the subcontracted works must be delivered.  
In addition to those listed in this document, the documentation and formats requested by the 
Siemens Energy client will be p rovided, taking into account that said client may additionally 
require uploading to any of its document platform s. 
LIST OF COMPANY DOCUMENTS TO DELIVER   
• Act of Incorporation of the Company. CIF Corporate tax payer identification number.  
 
• Debt clearance cer tificate  from the Social Security treasury (monthly) . 
 
• Tax Certification of Contractors and Subcontractors stating they are up to date with tax 
obligations (monthly, semi -annual or annual depending on the validity of the document)  
 
• Monthly accreditation of being up to date with their salary obligations with their 
workers.  
 
• Photocopy of the Civil Liability Insurance Policy, with updated payment receipt.  
 
• Accident Insurance Policy (Sacc) and proof of payment.  
 
• Accredited Company Certificate in the Registry of Accredited Companies ( REA). 
 
• Accreditation of the Company's Own or External Prevention Service.  
 
• Risk Assessment of the Scope of Works.  
 
• Adherence to the Specific Prevention Plan.  
 
• List and safety data sheets (SDS /FDS) of th e chemicals to be used in the work, if 
applicable . 
 
• Mutual Association Document . 
 
• Annual claim report . 
 
 
 
 
Pa g e  2 | 3 
 
LIST OF DOCUMENTATION ON OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY OF WORKERS 
INTERVENING IN THE EXECUTION OF THE WORKS  
• Nominal list of workers, with ID No., who are going to intervene in the execution of the 
works.  
 
• Tc1 and Tc2 of all workers or, in the case of rec ent incorporation, the registration 
document (TA 2/2). In the event that the works last longer than one month, they will be 
updated on the 5th of each month at the latest . 
 
• Risk assessment of the jobs involved in the activities contracted by SIEMENS ENERGY , 
S.A. 
 
• Information on the Siemens Energy Occupational Health and Safety Plan or Risk 
Assessment of the specific activities contracted by Siemens (Information receipt per 
worker).  
 
• Copy of the appointment of the Preventive Resource of the Subcontractor / S ecurity 
Manager (as applicable).  
 
• Copy of the workers' medical aptitude certificate for the contracted activities (annual 
validity).  
 
• Certificate of having been informed of the specific occupational hazards of the job - 
Worker Risk Assessment . 
 
• Copy of the  accreditation of the theoretical and practical training received by workers 
on the specific risks of their job . 
 
• Other Specific training: OHP, Work at Height, Electrical Hazard, Confined Spaces / ATEX, 
use of pQ's, etc . 
 
• Compulsory Training as stipulated in the current Metal Agreement  
 
• Accreditation of delivery of personal protective equipment PPE to workers and review 
of the same as applicable according to the manufacturer's specifications. The PPE's must 
have CE marking and / or CE conformity certificate.   
 
• Written authorization to workers for the use and handling of work equipment / 
machinery that they are going to use in the contracted activities . 
 
• Authorization for work with electrical risk according to RD 614/2001 . 
 
• Community wor kers: Health card model E -101 and communication to the Spanish Labor 
Authority (A1).  
 
 
 
Pa g e  3 | 3 
 
• non-Community workers : They will attach a work permit or visa and health care 
insurance.  
 
LIST OF DOCUMENTS OF EQUIPMENT, MACHINERY AND TOOLS TO DELIVER  
• List of machinery and work equipment provided for the work or service . 
 
• Documentation related to the legal adequacy of the machinery:  
All work machinery must have CE conformity certificates or adequacy certificates that 
will be attached to the initial review forms .  
 
In the initial review of any equipment, a copy of the CE conformity certificate will be 
attached to the review form, or a certificate of compliance according to R.D. 1215/97 
for old equipment, issued by an accredited entity.  
 
• In the case of vehicl es, trucks, public works machinery, buses, cranes, platforms, etc., a 
copy of the documents that prove the validity of the insurance, of the regulatory 
technical inspections of the same must be attached, which will be attached to the review 
forms (Vehicle Technical Inspection, special type reviews for lifting devices, 
manufacturer's instructions manual, semi -annual inspection of the vehicle, registration 
certificate and technical data sheet.)  
 
• Review of electrical equipment and tools and mechanical lifting means. Regarding work 
equipment that, due to the requirement of industrial regulations, require review s by 
specially qualified personnel (Lifting means, electrical equipment, pressure devices, 
etc.), these reviews will be carried out following the applicable regulations . 
 
• In the case of rented machinery: purchase or lease document.   
 
LIST OF DOCUMENTATION O N ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS TO DELIVER  
• Application for registration in the register of producer or small producer of waste, if 
applicable, in accordance with Law 10/98 on Waste or any other applicable regulations . 
 
• Authorizations of the manager and its carrier (including list of vehicles authorized for 
transport) by the Autonomous Community in which the works are carried out, to 
manage / transport the waste (if applicable) . 
 
• Documents of acceptance of waste by the selected manager in accordance with the 
regulations in force in the place of execution of the works . 
 
• Delivery of a Construction and Demolition Waste Plan in accordance with current 
legislation for the works that are the object of the contract, in those cases where it is 
required . 
       Unrestricted  © Siemens Energy, 2020      Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.     
Siemens  Energy  Code of Conduct   
for Suppliers and Third Party Intermediaries  
This Code of Conduct defines the basic requirements placed on the suppliers and third party 
intermediaries of Siemens  Energy  concerning their responsibilities towards their stakeholders and 
the environment. The supplier and/or third party intermediary decl ares herewith to:   
  
  
Legal Compliance    
• Comply with the laws and regulations of the applicable legal systems.   
   
  
Human Rights and Labor Practices     
_ To ensure respect of all internationally proclaimed human rights by avoiding causation of and complicity in 
any human rights violations, heightened attention shall be paid to ensuring respect of human rights of 
specifically vulnerable rights holders or gro ups of rights holders such as women, children or migrant 
workers, or of (indigenous) communities.    
 Prohibition of Forced Labor    
• Neither use nor contribute to slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labor and human trafficking.    
  
 Prohibition of Chil d Labor    
• Employ no workers under the age of 15 or, in those countries subject to the developing country 
exception of the ILO Convention 138, employ no workers under the age of 14.    
• Employ no workers under the age of 18 for hazardous work according to I LO Convention 182.   
   
 Non-Discrimination and Respect for Employees   
• Promote equal opportunities and treatment of employees, irrespective of skin color, race, 
nationality, ethnicity, political affiliation, social background, disabilities, gender, sexual identity and 
orientation, marital status, religious conviction, or age.    
• Refuse to tolerate any unacceptable treatment of individuals such as mental cruelty, sexual 
harassment or discrimination including gestures, language and physical contact, that is s exual, 
coercive, threatening, abusive or exploitative.   
   
 Working Hours, Wages & Benefits for Employees   
• Recognize the legal rights of workers to form or join existing trade unions and to engage in 
collective bargaining; neither disadvantage nor prefer members of employee organizations or 
trade unions.   
• Adhere to all applicable working -hours regulations glob ally.    
• Pay fair wages for labor and adhere to all applicable wage and compensation laws globally.    
• In the event of cross -border personnel deployment adhere to all applicable legal requirements, 
especially with regard to minimum wages.    
   
 Health & Sa fety of Employees   
• Act in accordance with the applicable statutory and international standards regarding 
occupational health and safety and provide safe working conditions.    
• Provide training to ensure employees are educated in health & safety issues.  
• Establish a reasonable occupational health & safety management system¹.    
  
 Grievance Mechanism   
• Provide access to a protected mechanism for their employees to report possible violations of the 
principles of this Code of Conduct.   
  
Code of Conduct Versi on 1.1, Nove mber  2020          Page 1 of 2  

       Unrestricted  © Siemens Energy, 2020      Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.     
  
Environmental Protection    
• Act in accordance with the applicable statutory and international standards regarding the 
environment. Minimize environmental pollution and make continuous improvements in 
environmental protection.   
• Establish a reasonable environmental management system¹.    
   
  
Fair Operating Practices    
 Anti-Corruption and Bribery    
• Tolerate no form of and do not engage directly or indirectly in any form of corruption or bribery 
and do not grant, offer or promise anything of value to a government official or to a counte rparty 
in the private sector to influence official action or obtain an improper advantage. This includes to 
renounce from giving or accepting improper facilitation payments.   
   
 Fair Competition, Anti -Trust Laws and Intellectual Property Rights   
• Act in a ccordance with national and international competition laws and do not participate in price 
fixing, market or customer allocation, market sharing or bid rigging with competitors.   
• Respect the intellectual property rights of others.   
   
 Conflicts of Intere st   
• Avoid and/or disclose internally and to Siemens Energy all conflicts of interest that may influence 
business relationships, and to avoid already the appearance thereof.   
   
 Anti-Money Laundering, Terrorism Financing   
• Not directly or indirectly facil itate money laundering or terrorism financing.   
   
 Data Privacy   
• Process personal data confidentially and responsibly, respect everyone’s privacy and ensure that 
personal data is effectively protected and used only for legitimate purposes.   
   
 Export Co ntrol and Customs  
• Comply with the applicable export control and customs regulations.   
   
  
Responsible Minerals Sourcing      
• Take reasonable efforts to avoid in its products the use of raw materials which originate from 
Conflict -Affected and High -Risk Areas and contribute to human rights abuses, corruption, the 
financing of armed groups or similar negative effects.   
   
  
Supply  Chain    
• Use reasonable efforts to make its suppliers comply with the principles of this Code of Conduct.   
• Comply with the principles of non -discrimination with regard to supplier selection and treatment.  
  
   
1  www.siemens -energy.com/code -of-conduct/managementsystems  
  
     Code of Conduct Version 1.1, Nove mber  2020  Page 2 of 2  

 
Code of Conduct Version 1.1, November 2020  
© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 Page 1 of 1 
 
  
 
 
Declaration of the Supplier:  
 
 
We hereby declare the following:  
1. We have received a copy of the “Siemens Energy Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third 
Party Intermediaries” (hereinafter referred to as the “Code of Conduct”) and hereby commit 
ourselves, in addition to our commitments set out in the supply agreements wit h Siemens 
Energy , S.A. , to comply with its principles and requirements.  
 
2. We agree that this declaration is subject to the substantive law in Spain without reference to 
any of its conflict of law rules.  
 
 
 
_____________________________  
Place, Date  
 
_____________________________  
Signature  
 
_____________________________    _____________________________  
Name (BLOCK CAPITALS), Function    Company Seal  
 
 
 
This document shall be signed by a l egal representative of the company and returned to the 
Siemens Energy, S.A.  within 20 days of receipt.  
 
 

Unrestricted  Page  1 of 5  
  
 
Conditions  of Purchase  
Dated:  9 March  2023 
 
1. Order  and Confirmation  of Order  
1.1 Siemens Energy S.A. or any other company of the Siemens 
Energy group that issues the relevant order ( the “Customer ”) 
may cancel the order if the Supplier has not  confirmed 
acceptance of the order (confirmation) in writing  within two  
weeks  of receipt.  
1.2 Any alterations, amendments or additions to the order shall  
only become a part of the contract if the Customer accepts  
such in writing. In particular, the Customer is bound by the  
general  terms  and conditions  of the Supplier  only to the extent  
that such are in accordance with these Conditions of Purchase  or 
if the Custo mer agrees explicitly to such in writing. The ac - 
ceptance of deliveries or services as well as payments does  
not constitute  such  agreement.  
1.3 Any provisions in other documents provided by the Supplier  
(such as but not limited to specifications, data sheets, tech - 
nical documentation, advertising materials, order confirma - 
tions  and/or  shipping  documents)  regarding  legal  terms,  liabil- 
ity, restriction  of use, restriction  of application  and/or  restriction  
of suitability, or any other provision that changes the provi - 
sions  of these  Conditions  of Purchase  shall not be applicable.  
2. Rights  of Use 
2.1 The Supplier hereby grants the Customer the following non - 
exclusive,  transferable,  worldwide and  perpetual rights:  
2.1.1  to use the deliveries and services including related documen - 
tation, to integrate them into other products and to distribute  
them;  
2.1.2  to install,  launch,  test and operate  software  and its related  doc- 
umentation  (hereinafter  collectively  referred  to as "Software");  
2.1.3  to sublicense  the right of use under  section  2.1.2  above  to any 
company,  partnership  or other  legal  entity  which  directly  or in- 
directly controls, is controlled by or is under common control  
with the Customer (hereinafter referred to as "Affiliates") to  
contracted  third parties,  to distributors  and to end customers;  
2.1.4  to license to Affiliates and distributors the right to sublicense  
the right of use under  section  2.1.2  above  to end  customers;  
2.1.5  to use the Software for integration into other products and to  
copy the Software, or to allow Affiliates, contracted third par - 
ties or distributors to use  and copy the  Software;  
2.1.6  to distribute,  sell, hire out, lease  and make  ready  for download  
or make publicly available the Software, e.g. in the context of  
Application  Service  Providing  or in other  contexts,  and to copy  
the Software to the extent required, always provided that the  
number of licenses being used at any one time does not ex - 
ceed  the number  of licenses  purchased;  
2.1.7  to sublicense  the right of use under  section  2.1.6  above  to Af- 
filiates contracted  third parties and  distributors.  
2.2 In addition  to the rights  granted  in section  2.1 above,  the Cus- 
tomer, Affiliates and distributors are authorized to allow end  
customers  to transfer  the respective  licenses.  
2.3 All sublicenses granted by the Customer must contain appro - 
priate protection for the intellectual property rights of the Sup - 
plier in the Software, containing the same contractual provi - 
sions as used by the  Customer to protect its own intellectual  
property rights.  
2.4 The Supplier  shall,  in good  time but at the latest  by the time of 
order  confirmation,  inform  the Customer  in writing  whether  the 
deliveries and services contain Open Source  Components. In  
the context of this provision, "Open Source Components"  
means any software, hardware or other information that is pro - 
vided  royalty -free by the respective  licensor  to any user on the 
basis of a license with the right to modify and/or to di stribute  
(e.g. the GNU  General  Public  License  (GPL),  the GNU  Lesser  
GPL (LGPL), or the MIT License). Should the deliveries and  
services by the Supplier contain Open Source Components,  
the Supplier shall comply with all applicable open source li - 
cense terms and shall grant all those rights to the Customer  
and provide all information which Customer needs in order to  
comply  himself  with the applicable  license  terms.  In particular,  the Supplier must deliver to the Customer promptly after the  
order  is confirmed  the following:  
- A schedule  of all Open  Source  Components  used,  indi- 
cating the relevant license, its version and including a  
copy of the complete text of such license and including  
a reference to copyright and/or authorship. Such sched - 
ule must  have  an understandable  structure  and contain  
a table  of contents.  
- The complete source code of the relevant open source  
software,  including  scripts  and information  regarding  its 
generating  environment  in so far as the applicable  open  
source  conditions  require  this. 
2.5 The Supplier  shall,  in good  time but at the latest  by the time of 
order  confirmation,  inform  the Customer  in writing  whether  any 
open source  licenses used by Supplier might be subject to a  
Copyleft Effect, which could affect the products of the Cus - 
tomer.  In the context  of this provision,  “Copyleft  Effect”  means  
that the provision  of the open  source  license  requires  that cer- 
tain of the Supp lier’s products,  as well as any products  derived  
from such products, may only be redistributed  in accordance  
with the terms of the open source license, e.g. only if the  
source code is disclosed. In case any open source licenses  
used by Supplier would be subject to a Copyleft Effect, the  
Customer shall be entitled to cancel the order within two  
weeks of receipt of such information without any cost and lia - 
bility consequences  for the Customer.  
2.6 Should  the order  involve  production  with special  requirements  
in terms of a work contract according to Article 363 et seq  
Swiss Code of Obligations, the Customer shall in case of a  
design or development order have the unlimited right to the  
intellectual  property  and the exclusive  use of all related  design  
and development  results.  The designs  and developments  shall 
not be made available to any third party in whole or in  part 
without  the express  written  approval  of the Customer,  nor shall  
such be  used for  any own or  other purpose.  
3. Term  and Penalty  for Breach  
3.1 For the purposes of establishing the timeliness of delivery the  
relevant  point  in time is the date of receipt  at the place  of des- 
tination/delivery  according  to Incoterms  ® 2020  designated  by 
the Customer, and for deliveries involving installation, erec - 
tion, commissioning or assembly as well as for services (in - 
cluding  rectification)  the relevant  point  in time shall be the date 
of acceptance  by the Customer.  
3.2 If any delay  in delivery  or performance  or rectification  is antic - 
ipated, the Customer shall be notified immediately and its de - 
cision sought. In order to conform with delivery or performance  
deadlines the Supplier shall in good time undertake all suitable  
measures  (e.g. shift work,  overtime,  any necessary  expedited  
transport) in order to avoid any delay. The costs for such  
measures shall  be borne  by the Supplier.  
3.3 In the event  of non-compliance  with the agreed  delivery  or per- 
formance deadlines, the Customer may, without setting any  
further deadline, waive the right to performance and rescind  
the contract without any cost and liability consequences for  the 
Customer.  The Customer  reserves  the right to claim  dam- ages  
as permitted  by law. 
3.4 If the agreed deadlines are exceeded, the Customer may de - 
mand a penalty to the amou nt of 1 % for each commenced  
day of delay, but not exceeding 15 % of the total contract  
amount. The payment of a penalty by the Supplier shall not  
affect  any other  contractual  or legal  rights  based  on late deliv- 
ery or performance and shall not release th e Supplier from any  of 
its contractual  or legal obligations  arising  from the order.  
3.5 In case of postponed or subsequently -agreed delivery or per - 
formance deadlines the agreed penalty shall apply accord - 
ingly.  

Unrestricted  Page  2 of 5  
 3.6 The penalty  is due irrespective  of whether  or not the Customer  
expressly reserves the right to claim the delay penalty upon  
acceptance of  the delayed  delivery.  
4. Deliveries  and Services  of the Supplier  
4.1 Unless agreed otherwise, DDP (named place of destination)  
Incoterms ® 2020 shall apply, if (a) the seat of the Supplier  
and the named  place  of destination  are within  the same  coun - 
try or (b) the seat of the Supplier  and the named  place  of des- 
tination  are within the European Union. If neither (a) nor (b)  
are fulfilled,  the DAP (named  place  of destination)  Incoterms  
® 2020  shall apply,  unless  agreed  otherwise.  
4.2 The Supplier warrants that deliveries and services will be in  
accordance with the contract and  in perfect condition, free of  
any defect of title or deficiency, produced with raw materials  
free of any defect and fully functional without limitation and fit  
for the intended purpose. This shall include in particular com - 
pliance  with official  and legal  provisions  and safety  regulations  
of the countries  of production,  destination  as well as the coun - 
try of the Customer. The Supplier guarantees that deliveries  
and services at the time of transfer of risk are in accordance  
with the current  state  of the art. The Customer  may return  any 
defective goods to the Supplier at the Supplier's cost and de - 
mand replacement  in accordance  with the order.  
4.3 Any services of the Supplier shall be provided with the great - 
est care with the use of qualified and  trained  personnel.  
4.4 Deliveries and services of the Supplier and sub -suppliers shall  be 
subject to the Customer’s quality assurance system in ac - 
cordance  with ISO9001  / EN29001.  The Customer’s  suppliers  
and sub -suppliers shall  be assessed accordingly.  
5. Trans fer of Benefit  and Risk  
5.1 For deliveries involving installation, erection, commissioning  
or assembly as well as services risk shall transfer to the Cus - 
tomer  on acceptance and for deliveries not involving services  
risk shall transfer to the Customer upon receipt by the Cus - 
tomer at the place of destination/delivery according to Inco - 
terms  ® 2020 designated  by the Customer.  
5.2 For deliveries involving installation, erection, commissioning  
or assembly as well as services benefit of the goods and ser - 
vices shall transfer to the Customer as soon as provided and  
for deliveries not involving services, benefit of the goods shall  
transfer to the Customer upon receipt by the Customer at the  
place of destination/delivery according to Incoterms ® 2020  
designated by  the Customer.  
6. Packing  and Dispatch  
6.1 Unless otherwise agreed, the costs for adequate packaging  
shall be borne by the Supplier. The packing shall be environ - 
mental friendly and shall ensure protection against any dam - 
age, soiling and  moisture  during  transport and  storage.  
6.2 In case transportation costs are borne  by the Customer,  notice  
of readiness  for dispatch  shall be given  together  with the infor- 
mation set out in section 6.3 hereunder. On Customer’s re - 
quest, a Siemens Energy routing order tool must be used by  
the Supplier. Transport shall be arranged by the Supplier at  
the lowest possible cost, insofar as the Customer ha s not re - 
quested a particular method of delivery or the conclusion of  
the contract  for carriage  by the Customer.  Any supplementary  
costs arising from non -conformity with the transport require - 
ments, including any costs arising from the Supplier not havin g 
used  the Siemens  Energy  routing  order,  shall be borne  by the 
Supplier.  In case  DAP/DDP  (place  of destination)  Incoterms  ® 
2020  is agreed,  the Customer  may also determine  the method  
of transportation.  
6.3 Each delivery shall include a packing note or delivery note with  
details  of the contents  as well as  the complete  order  number.  
6.4 As far as the Customer and the Supplier agree that the Sup - 
plier orders the transport of deliveries containing dangerous  
goods for account  of the Customer, the  Supplier is  responsible  to 
transfer the necessary legally required dangerous goods  data 
to the freight forwarder nominated by the Customer when  placing 
the transport order. The Supplier is in these cases also  
responsible for packing, marking, labeling etc.  in compliance  
with the regulation to the  mode(s)  of transport used.  
6.5 If the Customer informs the Supplier that following the initial  
transport another transport with a different mode of transport  
is scheduled,  the Supplier  will also follow  the relevant  legal  requirements  concerning  dangerous  goods  with regard  to 
such on -going  transport.  
7. Payment,  Invoices  
7.1 Unless  otherwise  agreed,  payments  shall be due and payable  
no later than 60 (sixty) days  net. If payment  is made  within  14 
(fourteen) days, the Customer is entitled to a 3% (three per - 
cent) discount. The period for payment shall commence as  
soon as any delivery or service is completed and correctly is - 
sued  invoice  is received..  
7.2 The order number as well as the number of each individual  
item shall be detailed in invoices. Insofar as any such details  
are omitted, invoices shall not be payable. Copies of invoices  
shall be marked  as duplicates.  
7.3 Insofar as the Supplier is required to provide material testing,  
test records or qualit y control documents or any other docu - 
mentation, such shall be a part of the requirements of the com - 
pleteness  of the delivery  and service.  A discount  shall also be 
allowed for should the Customer set off or withhold any pay - 
ments  to a reasonable  extent  because  of any deficiency  in the 
delivery or  service.  
7.4 Payment does not constitute an acknowledgement that the  
corresponding  deliveries  or services  were  provided  in accord - 
ance with the contract (in particular in  relation to quantity or  
quality).  Any rights of the Customer to claim shall therefore  
remain  unaffected  also after payment  for the deliveries  or ser- 
vices.  
 
8. Inspections  
8.1 The Supplier  shall  inspect  the delivery  for quantity  and quality  
before dispatch.  
8.2 The delivery shall be inspected by the Customer as soon as  
possible  after receipt  at the named  place  of destination  on the 
basis of random samples in relation to the type of delivery as  
well as quantity and any externally -recognizable transporta - 
tion damage or  other obvious  deficiencies.  
8.3 The obligation of immediate examination and notification ac - 
cording to Article 201 or Article 367 of the Swiss Code of Ob - 
ligations shall be waived. The Supplier recognizes or der noti - 
fications of defects without adherence to a notification period  
as obtained  in time.  
9. Warranty  
9.1 All claims  in relation  to rescission,  price  reduction,  rectification  
or replacement and damages according to Article 205 et seq  
or 368 Swiss  Code  of Obligations  shall be  reserved.  A right to 
claim rectification shall also exist in case of any purchase  
agreements. Rectification or replacement shall be carried out  
by the Supplier at the choice of the Customer. The Supplier  
shall be liable for any and all  costs, expenses and damages  
resulting  directly  to the Customer  by way of deficient  deliveries  
or services  regardless  of fault.  This shall  also apply  in case  of 
work contracts.  
9.2 Until proved to the contrary, during the entire warranty period  
it shall be assumed that any deficiency existed at the time of  
the transfer  of risk. 
9.3 The Customer reserves the right to retain any payment in  
whole or in part until, (i) the Supplier has completely fulfilled  
its duty to rectify the deficiency or the replacement delive ry in 
accordance with the contract, or (ii) the parties have agreed  
on other alternative measures, such as but not limited to re - 
scission,  price reduction  or damages  in a binding  manner.  
9.4 From the time of notification of a deficiency the Supplier shall  
bear the risk for deficient deliveries. The Supplier shall, addi - 
tionally – independently of the issue of fault – bear the costs  
incurred to remove, disassemble, return, reassemble, re -in- 
stall, re -construct, re -inspect and retest of deficient deliveries  
as well as all other costs (including internal costs), expenses  
and damage  of the Customer  in connection  with the complaint  
and rectification  of the deficiency.  
9.5 Should the Supplier fail to rectify (i.e. repair or replacement)  
within a reasonable time set by the Customer, the Customer  
is entitled, at the expense of the Supplier, to undertake any  
rectification  or replacement  itself  or arrange  for a third party  to 
do so. Any deficiency in deliveries or services detected at the  
time of acceptance, inspection o r commissioning may be rec - 
tified by the Customer itself or it may arrange for such to be  
rectified  by third parties  immediately  at the expense  of the 
Unrestricted  Page  3 of 5  
 Supplier without the need to set a further deadline if the Sup - 
plier delivered or provided such in delay.  The same shall ap - 
ply if the Customer has a particular interest in immediate rec - 
tification  or replacement  delivery  in case  of urgency  or in order  
to avoid  delay  itself.  
9.6 The warranty  period  shall be three  years,  unless  a longer  war- 
ranty  period  is given  by law. 
9.7 For deliveries not involving installation, erection, commission - 
ing, assembly  the warranty  period  begins  to run with receipt  at 
the place of destination named by the Customer. For deliver - 
ies involving  installation,  erection,  commissioning  or assembly  as 
well as for services the warranty period begins to run with  
acceptance  by the Customer.  Upon  delivery  to locations  
where  the Customer  is operating  outside  its premises,  the war- 
ranty  period  begins  by acceptance  by the end customer,  in no 
case  later than one year after  the transfer  of risk. 
9.8 In case  the Supplier  has redelivered  or rectified  in terms  of the 
warranty, the warranty period shall start anew. The warranty  
period shall extend for the period during which the deliveries  
cannot  be used  to the full extent as  a result  of deficiencies.  
9.9 Warranty claims shall expire one year after expiry of the war - 
ranty  period  set out in this section.  
9.10 Any further  or additional  legal  claims  are reserved.  
9.11 Inspections, directions or instructions by the Customer or by  
any person  acting  on behalf  of the Customer  shall not limit the 
right to claim under the contract, in particular with regard to  
deficiencies. In case the Supplier does not r egard the inspec - 
tions, directions or instructions as being reasonable or has  
other reservations against such, the Supplier shall notify the  
Customer of such without delay in writing and make sugges - 
tions for  improvement.  
10. Liability  for Intellectual  Property  Right  Infringements  
10.1 The Supplier guarantees that no intellectual property rights,  
including but not limited to copyright, constitute a hindrance  
for any use. 
10.2 In the event  that any third party  makes  any claims  against  the 
Customer or a n end customer of the Customer in relation to  
intellectual  property  rights,  the Customer  shall inform  the Sup- 
plier of such.  The Supplier shall indemnify the Customer  
against all costs (in particular including lawyers and court  
costs) and justified claims of third parties in connection with  
intellectual  property  rights.  
10.3 In addition the Customer may demand that the Supplier at its  
own expense  and without  delay  either  (i) obtains  a right of use 
from the party  in control  of the intellectual  property  right or, (ii) 
changes  those  parts  of delivery  infringing  the intellectual  prop- 
erty rights or exchanges such for parts which do not infringe  
the intellectual  property  rights.  
10.4 The right of the Customer to enforce any further legal cl aims  
shall not be affected  hereby.  
10.5 Any claims  for defects  as to title shall expire  in ten years  or the 
longer period  given  by law. 
11. Subcontracting  to Third  Parties  
Subcontracting  to third parties  shall  not take place  without  the 
prior written consent of the Customer and entitles the Cus - 
tomer to cancel in whole or in part and claim damages. Upon  
demand the Supplier shall make available to the Customer a  
list of the subcontractors  used  in connection  with its deliveries  
and services.  
12. Provided  Material,  Information  
12.1 The Supplier is obliged to examine components such as, e.g.  
raw material provided by the Customer or provided by the  
Supplier’s  suppliers,  manufacturers  or other  third parties  at the 
time of receipt of such componen ts as to whether these com - 
ponents show any obvious or hidden defects. In case any de - 
fects are discovered in the course of such inspections, the  
Supplier  shall immediately  inform  its suppliers  or – in case  the 
components are provided by the Customer – inform the Cus - 
tomer.  
12.2 Material and information provided by the Customer remains  
the property of the Customer and are to be stored, labeled as  
property of the Customer and administered separately at no  
expense  to the Customer.  Its use is limited  to the orders  of the 
Customer  only.  The Supplier  shall supply  replacements  in the 
event of reduction in value or loss. This also applies to the  
transfer  of allocated  material.  12.3 Any processing or transformation of the material and infor - 
mation shall take place for the Customer. The Customer shall  
immediately become owner of the new or transformed prod - 
uct. Should  this be impossible  for legal  reasons,  the Customer  
and the Supplie r hereby agree that the Customer shall be the  
owner  of the new product  at all times  during  the processing  or 
transformation. The Supplier shall keep the new product safe  
for the Customer at no extra cost to the Customer and in so  
doing  shall exercise the  duty of  care of a merchant.  
13. Tools,  Patterns,  Samples,  Confidentiality  
13.1 Any tools,  patterns,  samples,  models,  profiles,  drawings,  
specification, printing templates, gauges and other material  
provided by the Customer or made for the Customer, as well 
as any materials  derived  there  from,  shall remain  the property  
of the Customer and shall not be made available to any third  
party  nor used  for any other  purpose  than contractually  
agreed, except with the prior written consent of Customer.  
Such materials shall be protected against unauthorized ac - 
cess or use and shall be labeled as the property of the Cus - 
tomer. Notwithstanding any other rights, the Customer may  
demand  the immediate  return  of such  materials  if the Supplier  
breaches  its contractual  obligations.  
13.2 The Customer is not responsible for the content of any infor - 
mation, data, drawings, specifications and materials which it  
makes available to the Supplier in connection with the order.  
The Supplier shall have a responsibility to c heck that it is up  
to date and correct and, if this should not be the case or in  
case of any possible contradictions, the Supplier shall inform  
the Customer of such without delay in writing and shall seek  
clarification as to how to proceed. Any incorrectne ss shall not  
affect the responsibility of the Supplier in relation to its scope  
of deliveries  and services.  
13.3 The Supplier shall treat as confidential and shall not make  
available to third parties any data, drawings, specifications,  
materials, knowledge or f indings, documents, terms of refer - 
ence,  business  processes  or other  information  that it receives  
from or about the Customer in the context of performing the  
deliveries and services, as well as the conclusion of the con - 
tract and any results, with regard  to third parties – and shall  
keep the same confidential beyond the term of the contract – 
for as long as and insofar  as such  information  has not become  
publicly known by legal means or the Customer has not con - 
sented  in writing  to its transfer  in the individual  case.  The Sup- 
plier shall use this information exclusively for the purpose of  
performing the deliveries and services. The Supplier shall  
make Information available only to those employees who need  
the Information for the fulfillment of their du ties and shall en - 
sure that such employees are also subject to a duty to treat  
such information as confidential.  Insofar as the Customer  
agrees to any subcontracting to third parties, such shall be  
made  subject  to a corresponding duty  in writing.  
14. Product  Liability  
14.1 If the Customer is made subject to any claims by third parties  
based  on domestic  or foreign  product  liability  law in connection  
with deliveries by the Supplier, the Customer shall notify the  
Supplier of such. The Supplier shall indemnify the Customer  
against all justified claims of third parties as well as the costs  
(including  in particular  lawyers  and court  costs),  provided  such  
are caused  by a deficiency  in the deliveries  from the Supplier.  
The Supplier shall support Customer in the dispute with the  
injured.  
14.2 In addition, the Supplier shall reimburse the Customer for all  
costs caused thereby as a result of measures the Customer  
must take in order to prevent any risk, such as but not limited  
to warnings  or precautionary  recall  actions  of a defective  prod- 
uct. Any costs for the determination of the risk (in particular  
expert  costs)  as well as internal  administration  and processing  
costs of the Customer shall be borne by the Supplier unless  
the Supplier  does not itself provide  the proof of  cause.  
15. Assignment  of Claims,  Set-off 
Any assignment of claims existing in relation to the Customer  
as well as any set-off of counterclaims  is only allowed  with the 
prior written  approval  of the Customer.  
16. Right  to Terminate  and Cancel  
16.1 In addition to any rights provided by law to withdraw from or  
cancel  a contract,  the Customer  may cancel  the contract  in 
Unrestricted  Page  4 of 5  
 whole or in part in case (a) the Supplier is in delay with its  
delivery or service and such delay – despite a corresponding  
demand  notice  by Customer  – persists  for more  than 2 weeks  
after receipt  of such  demand  notice,  or in case  (b) that the ad- 
herence to the contract by the Customer cannot reasonably  
be expected from the Cust omer because of a reason attribut - 
able to the Supplier and taking into consideration the circum - 
stances in the individual case as well both parties’ interests.  
This might,  in particular,  apply  in case  of an actual  or possible  
deterioration  of the Supplier’s  financial  situation  thus threaten - 
ing the due fulfillment of the Supplier’s obligations under the  
contract.  
16.2 The Customer may also terminate the contract in case insol - 
vency  proceedings  or similar  proceedings  in relation  to the as- 
sets of  the Supplier are applied  for or commenced.  
16.3 In case of a termination by the Customer the Customer may  
continue  to utilize  existing  facilities,  deliveries  and services  al- 
ready performed by the Supplier in exchange for reasonable  
payment.  
17. Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Security in the Supply  
Chain  
17.1 The Supplier  is obliged  to comply  with the laws of the applica - 
ble legal system(s). In particular, the Supplier shall not en - 
gage,  actively  or passively,  nor directly  or indirectly  in any form 
of bribery,  in any violation  of basic  human  rights  of employees  
or any child  labor.  Moreover,  the Supplier  shall be responsible  
for the health and safety of its employees and shall fulfill the  
applicable minimum wage requirements. By acting in accord - 
ance  with the applicable  environmental  laws the Supplier  shall  
take adequate  measures  to avoid  the deployment  of so-called  
conflict  minerals  and shall  create  transparency  over the origin  
of raw materials.  The Supplier  shall  provide  a protected  griev - 
ance  mechanism for its own employees to report possible vi - 
olations of this Code of Conduct and will use reasonable ef - 
forts to promote  this Code  of Conduct  among  its suppliers..  
17.2 The Supplier shall provide necessary organizational instruc - 
tions  and take measures,  particularly  with regard  to the follow - 
ing security:  premises  security,  packaging  and transport,  busi- 
ness  partner,  personnel  and information  in order  to guarantee  
the security  in the supply  chain  according  to the requirements  
of respective internationally recognized initiatives based on  
the WCO  SAFE  Framework  of Standards  (e.g. AEO,  C-TPAT).  
The Supplier  shall protect  the deliveries  and services  provided  
to the Customer  or provided  to third parties  designated  by the 
Customer  against  unauthorized  access  and manipulation.  The 
Supplier  shall  only deploy  reliable  personnel  for those  deliver - 
ies and services and shall obligate any of its suppliers to take  
equivalent  security  measures.  
17.3 In addition to other rights and remedies the Customer may  
have, the Customer may terminate the contract in case of  
breach of these obligations by the Supplier. However, pro - 
vided that the Supplier's breach of contract is capable of rem - 
edy, the Customer's  right to terminate  is subject  to the proviso  
that such  breach  has not been  remedied  by the Supplier  within  
a reasonable grace  period  set by the Customer.  
18. Product  Conformity,  Product  Related  Environmental  
Protection, Dangerous Goods, Occupational Health and  
Safety  
18.1 Should the Supplier deliver products to which product related  
statutory and legal requirements apply in view of their further  
marketing in the European Economic Area or to which corre - 
sponding requirements apply regarding other countries noti - 
fied by the Customer t o the Supplier, then the Supplier must  
ensure  compliance  of the products  with these  requirements  at 
the time of transfer  of risk. Furthermore,  the Supplier  shall en- 
sure that all documents and information which are necessary  
to provide  the proof  of conformity  of products  with the respec - 
tive requirements can be furnished immediately to the Cus - 
tomer upon  request.  
18.2 Should  the delivery  contain  goods  set out in the so-called  “List 
of Declarable Substances”, ( www.bomcheck.net/suppliers/re - 
stricted - 
and-declarable -substances)  applicable  at the time of the order  
or which  are subject  to statutorily -imposed  substance  re- 
strictions  and/or  information  requirements  (e.g. REACH,  
RoHS), the Supplier shall declare such substances and pro - 
vide information  as requested  in the web database  BOMCheck  (www.bomcheck.net)  no later than the date of first 
delivery. With respect to stat utorily imposed substance re - 
strictions the foregoing shall only apply with respect to laws  
applicable at the registered seat of the Supplier or the Cus - 
tomer or at the designated place of destination requested by  
the Customer.  
18.3 Should  the delivery  contain  goods  which  are classified  as dan- 
gerous goods according to international regulations, the Sup - 
plier shall inform Customer hereof in a form agreed upon be - 
tween the Supplier and the Customer, but in no case later than  
the date of order confirmat ion. The requirements concerning  
dangerous goods in sections 6.4 and 6.5 shall remain unaf - 
fected.  
18.4 The Supplier is obliged to comply with all legal requirements  
regarding  the health  and safety  of the personnel  employed  by 
the Supplier. It must ensure that  the health and safety of its  
personnel  as well as indirect  sub-contractors  employed  to per- 
form the deliveries  and services are  protected.  
19. Cybersecurity  
19.1 Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and technical  
measures to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, integrity  
and availability  of Supplier  Operations  as well as products  and 
services. These measures shall be consistent with good in - 
dustry practice and shall include an appropriate information  
security management system cons istent with standards such  
as ISO/IEC  27001  or IEC 62443  (to the extent  applicable).  
19.2 “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes and sys - 
tems (including information systems), data (including Cus - 
tomer  data), personnel, and sites, used or processed by Sup - 
plier from time to time in the performance  of this Agreement.  
19.3 Should products or services contain software, firmware, or  
chipsets:  
19.3.1  Supplier shall implement appropriate standards, processes  
and methods to prevent, identify, evaluate and repair any vul - 
nerabilities,  malicious  code,  and security  incidents  in products  
and services which shall be consistent with good industry  
practice and standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443  
(to the extent  applicable);  
19.3.2  Supplier shall continue to support and provide services to re - 
pair, update, upgrade and maintain products and services in - 
cluding the provision of patches to Customer remedying vul - 
nerabilities  for the reasonable  lifetime  of the products and ser- 
vices;  
19.3.3  Supplier shall provide to Customer a bill of materials identify - 
ing all third -party software components contained in the prod - 
ucts. Third -party software shall be up -to-date at the time of  
delivery  to Customer;  
19.3.4  Supplier shall grant to  Customer the right, but Customer shall  
not be obliged, to test or have tested products for malicious  
code  and vulnerabilities  at any time,  and shall adequately  sup- 
port Customer;  
19.3.5  Supplier shall provide Customer a contact for all information  
security  related  issues  (available  during  business  hours).  
19.4 Supplier shall promptly report to Customer all relevant infor - 
mation security incidents occurred or suspected and vulnera - 
bilities discovered in any Supplier Operations, services and  
products,  if and to the extent  Customer  is or is likely  to be ma- 
terially  affected.  
19.5 Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its  
subcontractors and suppliers shall, within a reasonable time,  
be bound by obligations similar to  the provisions of this section  
19. 
19.6 Upon Customer’s request, Supplier shall provide written evi - 
dence of its compliance with this section 19 including generally  
accepted  audit  reports (e.g.  SSAE -16 SOC  2 Type  II). 
20. Export  Control  and Foreign  Trade  Data  Regulations  
    
Unrestricted  Page  5 of 5  
 -  
20.1 For all products to be delivered and services to be provided 
according to this agreement , Supplier shall comply with all 
applicable export control, customs and foreign trade 
regulations (“ Foreign Trade Regulations ”) and shall obtain 
all necessary export licenses, unless Customer  or any party 
other than Supplier is required to apply for the export licenses 
pursuant to the applicable Foreign Trade Regulations.  
20.2 In particular, Supplier represents and warrants that none of its 
products nor its services provided under this agreement 
contain products and/or services restricted for import under 
the Foreign Trade Regulations which, in any case, include the 
Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 2022/263 or 
765/2006, each as amended, and import restrictions enforced 
by the U.S. Custom s and Border Protection.  
20.3 Supplier shall advise Customer  in writing as early as possible 
but not later than two weeks after receipt of order any 
information and data required by Customer  to comply with all 
Foreign Trade Regulations for the Products and Serv ices 
applicable in the countries of export and import as well as re -
export in case of resale. In any  case , Supplier shall provide 
Customer  for each product and service:  
(i) the “Export Control Classification Number“ 
according to the U.S. Commerce Control List 
(ECCN) if the product is subject to the U.S. Export 
Administration Regulations; and  
(ii) all applicable export list numbers; and  
(iii) the statistical commodity code according to the 
current commodity classification for foreign trade 
statistics and the HS (Harmonized  System) 
coding; and  
(iv) the country of origin (non -preferential origin); and,  
(v) upon request of Customer : Supplier’s declaration 
for preferential origin (in case of European 
suppliers) or preferential certificates (in case of 
non-European suppliers) . 
 
20.4 In case of any alterations to origin and/or characteristics of the 
products or services and/or to the applicable Foreign Trade 
Regulations Supplier shall update the Export Control and 
Foreign Trade Data as early as possible but not later than two 
weeks aft er receipt of order.  
20.5 Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage 
incurred by Customer  due to any breach of the obligations 
according to 20.1 to 20.3. 
 
21. Reservation  Clause  
The Customer shall not be obligated to fulfill the contract if  
such  fulfillment  is prevented  by any impediments  arising  out of 
national and international foreign trade or customs require - 
ments or  any embargos  or other  sanctions.  
22. Mention  as Reference  Customer  
Only upon the Customer’s prior written approval, the Supplier  
shall mention the Customer as reference customer and/or  
make  reference  to products  or services  which  the Supplier  has 
developed for  the Customer.  
23. Dispute  Settlement  and Applicable  Law 
Spanish substantive law shall apply, excluding the provisions  
of the United Nations Law on the Sale of Goods of 11 April  
1980.  
The Court  of jurisdiction  shall be Madrid.  
SCM Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
1 of 7 SE-CORP-SCM-PT-01-A1   
Sin restricción 
 
 
 
PROCEDURE for Penalties to Subcontractors for OHP 
breaches 
 
 
 
 
Type of document: Specific Procedure. 
 
 
Procedure for Penalties to SUBCONTRACTORS for OHP breaches 
Document code 
SE-CORP-SCM-PT-01-A1 Revision 
0 Total Number of 
pages 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIEMENS ENERGY 
Prepared by 
Noelia Caldera Díez 
SCM Reviewed by 
Celia Angulo González 
HHRR Reviewed and 
approved by 
 Elena Antón Martín 
SCM 
 
 
 
Caldera Firmado digitalmente por 
Caldera Diez Noelia  DN: cn=Caldera Diez Noelia,  Diez email=noelia.caldera@siemens  c=DE, o=Siemens,  
 
energy.com  
Noelia Fecha: 2021.09.28 16:34:31  
+02'00'  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Firmado digitalmente por 71284427K 
CELIA ANGULO  (R:  A01484500) 
DN: cn=71284427K CELIA ANGULO 
(R: A01484500), c=ES, o=SIEMENS 
ENERGY SA,  
email=celia.angulo_gonzalez@siemens- 
energy.com  
Fecha: 2021.09.28 16:31:45 +02'00'   
October 2021 
Firmado digitalmente por Anton Martin
Elena
DN: cn=Anton Martin Elena, c=DE,
o=Siemens,
email=elena.anton@siemens-
energy.com
Fecha: 2021.12.16 13:27:45 +01'00'Anton Martin
Elena
SCM Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
2 of 7 SE-CORP-SCM-PT-01-A1   
Sin restricción  
 
 
CHANGE CONTROL AND VERSION HISTORY 
 
 
REV. Date Modified 
por… Page Description 
0 10-01-2021 Noelia Caldera New 
document  
     
     
     
     
     
SCM Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
3 of 7 SE-CORP-SCM-PT-01-A1   
Sin restricción  
 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Work procedures are considered an essential part of the Occupational Hazards Prevention Plan implemented by 
Siemens Energy, also constituting a basic tool to guarantee adequate safety measures when carrying out the 
most dangerous and difficult processes or tasks. 
These procedures constitute a documentary base in which to leave reflected in a sequential way, the actions to 
be carried out and the measures to be taken for the execution of the works to which they refer. 
The purpose of this procedure is to avoid, through prevention, any potentially dangerous situation that could 
affect workers in the normal course of their work. To this end, both documentary aspects, procedures, 
protection measures and any aspect of human behavior likely to cause a dangerous situation will be verified and 
monitored. 
 
 
2. PURPOSE 
The purpose of this work procedure is to establish the penalties derived in the case of non-compliance with the 
obligations regarding the prevention of occupational risks that companies and self-employed workers hired by 
Siemens Energy must comply with to intervene in those jobs in which Siemens Energy is the main contractor or 
entrepreneur (hereinafter, the "Subcontractors"). 
Establish rules of action during interventions. 
Ensure the correct coordination of business activities in compliance with the provisions of Royal Decree 
171/2004, of January 30. 
 
 
3. APLICATION SCOPE 
This procedure applies to Subcontractors that have been contracted to provide their services in interventions 
where Siemens Energy operates in a subcontracting chain. 
This procedure is applicable to all levels of subcontracting that exist in the service provision contract, and must 
ensure and guarantee compliance with the prevention standards established in the Safety Plan, Prevention Plan 
and / or Work Procedure. 
 
 
4. OBLIGATIONS OF THE SUBCONTRACTORS 
The Subcontractors are obliged to comply with all the obligations regarding the prevention of occupational risks, 
both those derived from current regulations, as well as those included in the work procedures of Siemens 
Energy, as well as those provided for in Royal Decree 171/2004, of January 30, on coordination of business 
activities. 
In order to comply with the provisions of RD 171/2004 on coordination of business activities, each Subcontractor 
will designate an interlocutor with Siemens Energy who will be responsible for coordinating compliance with said 
regulations. 
This coordination of business activities will be carried out through the e-management computer platform for the 
exchange of documentation. 
The Subcontractors must ensure that all their personnel strictly comply with the security measures established in 
the health and safety plan, risk assessment specific to the activity, procedures and application annexes for the 
work to be carried out. 
The Subcontractor will deliver all the documentation requested by the e-mana platform prior to the start of the 
works and will keep it updated throughout the intervention. 
SCM Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
4 of 7 SE-CORP-SCM-PT-01-A1   
Sin restricción  
 
 
The Subcontractor will designate a preventive resource, when it is mandatory and will be present during the 
performance of the works. 
 
 
5. NON-COMPLIANCE AND PENALTIES 
Failure to comply with any of the obligations regarding the prevention of occupational hazards and the 
coordination of business activities by the Subcontractors, both at a documentary, operational or behavioral level 
by the workers of the Subcontractors, will result in the corresponding requirement and / or penalty, depending 
on the seriousness, severity and consequence of the fault that occurred. 
Non-compliances or deviations in the prevention of occupational hazards detected by Siemens Energy will be 
notified to the Subcontractors following the format of "Written notification of safety deviations / Safety 
Notification for companies not belonging to Siemens Energy, including subcontractors" included in the 
"Procedure of action in the face of deviations and non-compliance in the area of Occupational Hazards 
Prevention”. Once the non-compliance or deviation is notified, within 3 working days, the Subcontractor must 
inform Siemens Energy, in writing, of the corrective actions taken and, where appropriate, the measures 
implemented to avoid or mitigate the damage caused to the people or facilities. In the event that Siemens 
Energy considers that the measures adopted by the Subcontractor are insufficient, it will notify it in writing, the 
Subcontractor being obliged to adopt the proposed measures or other alternatives that offer the same level of 
security. 
The breaches or deviations by the Subcontractors of the obligations regarding the prevention of occupational 
hazards will entitle Siemens Energy to terminate the contract without the right to the Subcontractors to receive 
any compensation. In addition to the termination of the contract, Siemens Energy may apply the following 
penalties: 
 
 
NON-COMPLIANCE or DEVIATIONS PENALTY 
Deviations detected in the work 
provided they do not result in a 
serious risk  to the physical integrity or 
health of the workers  
 
Minimum € 500 
Maximum 3% of the total amount of the purchase order and 
additional  items 
Deviations detected in the work 
provided that they can lead to serious 
risks to the physical integrity or health 
of the workers  
 
Minimum € 1000 
Maximum 6% of the total amount of the purchase order and 
additional items 
Deviations detected in the work 
provided that they can have very 
serious significance for the physical 
integrity or health of the workers  
 
Minimum € 2000 
Maximum 12% of the total amount of the purchase order and 
additional items 
 
 
List of Deviations: 
SCM Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
5 of 7 SE-CORP-SCM-PT-01-A1   
Sin restricción  
 
 
1. Deviations detected in the work provided they do not result in a serious risk to the physical 
integrity or health of the workers. 
 
 Inappropriate use or sporadic non-use of non-critical PPE (protective equipment), defined for each 
activity and that must be worn in the work area. 
 Using inappropriate work clothes or not wearing them in the right way. 
 Obstruct passageways due to abandonment or placement of objects. Lack of order and cleanliness, as 
well as deviations in the delimitation and signaling of the work area. 
 Small oversights in the conservation of material; as well as, in the signaling and delimitation of 
stockpiles. 
 Use of unauthorized chemical products or without the corresponding safety data sheet. 
 Failure to attend training or informative actions related to Safety in maintenance, works or projects. 
 Failure to report Near Miss or incidents suffered by both your own and the personnel in charge. 
 Do not alert when observing a situation of slight risk. 
 Other security breaches related to specific regulations in client facilities classified by the client as “mild”. 
 
 
2. Deviations detected in the work provided that they can lead to serious risks to the physical 
integrity or health of the workers. 
 
 Repetition of behaviors described in the previous block, despite having been warned. 
 Failure to comply with any Safety Essential in the execution of the work that poses a slight or low 
probability risk of hazard to the safety and health of the workers. 
 Failure to use the personal protective equipment established as critical for the development of the 
activity (class I and II PPE, for minor or intermediate risks). 
 Assign jobs to personnel who do not have adequate training to carry out the activity. 
 Do not carry out surveillance and supervision activities. 
 Failure to implement corrective actions for the deficiencies identified. 
 The abandonment of the job without just cause, when and as a consequence of the same, harm or 
damage will be caused to any worker or third party. 
 Access the facilities with restricted access without express permission. 
 Use of tools or equipment not suitable for the work. 
 Carrying out work (at height, electrical, etc.) in weather conditions that clearly increase the level of risk 
without express authorization after the adoption of specific prevention measures, for each case and 
situation, previously agreed with the line and the PRL department. 
 Refuse to carry the appropriate accreditations for special jobs or jobs that require authorizations. 
 Use of equipment not revised in accordance with current regulations or specifications. 
 Do not alert when observing a situation of serious risk. 
 Reiteration in the refusal to attend training or informative actions related to Safety in maintenance, 
works or projects. 
 Failure to repeatedly report Near misses or incidents suffered. 
 Disobey any observation related to safety made by the Preventive Resource, Health and Safety 
Coordinator, Prevention Technician, a higher command. 
 Other breaches of security related to specific regulations in client facilities classified by the client as 
"serious" or recidivism in those classified by the client as "slight". 
SCM Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
6 of 7 SE-CORP-SCM-PT-01-A1   
Sin restricción  
 
 
3. Deviations detected in the work provided that they can have very serious significance for the 
physical integrity or health of the workers. Serious breach of Safety Essentials. 
 
• Repetition of behaviors described in the previous block, despite having been warned. 
• Breaches of current legal regulations, internal regulations or Safety Essentials that pose a very serious and 
imminent risk to the safety and health of workers. 
• Access marked and / or delimited places without authorization 
• Failure to obey the order to Stop work  in the event of a serious or imminent risk situation. 
• Negligence and / or recklessness in the performance of functions that entails risk of accident for 
himself/herself or other workers or third parties, or danger of damage to facilities. 
• Carry out any work within the facilities or work areas without having the corresponding work permit. 
• Inappropriate use or non-use of critical personal protective equipment (PPE that protects against serious 
or fatal risks), defined for each activity and that should be worn in the work area. (PPE class III, that is PPE 
for Protection for Work at Height, PPE for electrical hazards or high voltage, PPEs for protection against 
solid and liquid aerosols or against gases, as well as those required to carry out an emergency rescue). 
• Do not alert when observing a situation of serious and imminent risk. 
• The omission of relief in an emergency situation. 
• Breach of action plans to correct deviations in Personal Safety issues. 
• Non-compliance with specific work procedures related to work with particularly dangerous risks (those 
included in the Safety Essentials) 
• Failure to report accidents suffered by the workers in charge, or very serious incidents. 
• Disobeying observations regarding serious safety aspects made by the Preventive Resource, Health and 
Safety Coordinator, the Prevention Technician or a higher command. 
• Other security breaches related to specific regulations in customer facilities classified by this as "very 
serious" or recidivism in those classified by it as "serious". 
 
 
Siemens Energy may prohibit access to the work to those Subcontractor personnel who have been responsible 
for a breach of occupational hazards prevention, either by action, omission or by fault in monitoring. 
In any case, the Subcontractors will be liable for the damages caused by the breach of their obligations regarding 
the prevention of occupational hazards. 
In the event that Siemens Energy is imposed by the labor authority of any type of penalty for non-compliance by 
the Subcontractors, they must be held responsible and immediately pay Siemens Energy the same penalty, 
without prejudice to any other actions that correspond to Siemens Energy. 
Likewise, failure to comply with the provisions of the legal provisions or procedures of Siemens Energy will mean 
that the supplier will no longer be automatically approved to carry out any work with Siemens Energy. 
 
 
6. LEGAL REFERENCES 
RD 604/2006, of May 19, which modifies RD 39/1997, of January 17, approving the RPS Law 31/1995 of 
November 18, on Occupational Hazards Prevention. 
SCM Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
7 of 7 SE-CORP-SCM-PT-01-A1   
Sin restricción  
 
 
Law 54/2003 of December 12, on the reform of the regulatory framework for the Prevention of Occupational 
Hazards RD 39/1997, on the Regulation of Prevention Services 
RD 171/2004, January 30, which develops article 24 of Law 31/1995, of November 8, on the Prevention of 
Occupational Hazards, regarding the coordination of business activities. 
RD 604/2006, of May 19, which modifies RD 39/1997, of January 17, approving the RPS (Regulation of prevention 
services) 
Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015, of October 23, which approves the Consolidated Text of the Workers' Statute 
Law. 
Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015, of October 30, approving the revised text of the General Law of Social Security. 
Law 23/2015, of July 21, Organizing the Labor and Social Security Inspection System. 
R.D. 928/98 Regulation on Procedure for the Imposition of Penalties 
R.D. 138/00 Regulations for the Organization and Operation of the Labor Inspection Ministerial Order of February 
12, 1998 
Legislative R.D 5/2000 on Infractions and Penalties in the Social Order 
Any other official provision related to Occupational Health and Safety that may affect the type of activities to be 
carried out. 
 
 
7. BREACHES AND PENALTIES OF THE CLIENT 
The subcontractors must fully know and assume the content, terms and conditions of the obligations regarding 
the Prevention of Occupational Hazards of Siemens Energy customers, committing themselves to comply with 
each and every one of the requirements and responsibilities that correspond to them. 
In the event that Siemens Energy is imposed any type of compensation, penalty or penalty for non-compliance 
by the subcontractors, they must be held responsible and immediately pay Siemens Energy the same 
compensation, penalty or penalty for non-compliance that Siemens Energy has had to pay to the Client, without 
prejudice to any other actions that correspond to Siemens Energy. 
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 1 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
 
 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN THE EVENT OF 
DEVIATIONS AND NON -COMPLIANCE REGARDING 
THE PREVENTION OF OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS  
 
 
Type of document: Specific Procedure .  
 
Procedure for action in the event of deviations and non -compliance regarding 
the prevention of occupational hazards  
 
Document code  
SE-CORP -HS-PT-29-A1 Revi ew 
0 Total No. of pages  18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIEMENS ENERGY  
Prepared by  
Ana Isabel Pérez  
EHS Reviewed   
Marta Espinosa  
HR Reviewed & approved 
by 
Lourdes Moreno  
EHS 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
Febrero 2023  
 
 
Firmado digitalmente por Perez 
Dorado Ana Isabel
DN: cn=Perez Dorado Ana Isabel, 
c=DE, o=Siemens, 
email=isabel.perez_dorado@siemens-
energy.com
Fecha: 2023.02.09 09:42:26 +01'00'
13171081Q 
MARTA ESPINOSA (R: A01484500)Firmado 
digitalmente por 13171081Q MARTA ESPINOSA (R: A01484500) Fecha: 2023.02.09 10:10:41 +01'00'
Firmado digitalmente por Moreno Martinez
Lourdes
DN: cn=Moreno Martinez Lourdes, c=DE,
o=Siemens,
email=lourdes.morenomartinez@siemens-
energy.com
Fecha: 2023.02.09 10:52:48 +01'00'

 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 2 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
 
CHANGE CONTROL AND VERSION HISTORY  
 
REV.  Date  Modifi ed 
by… Page Description  
0 06/24/2021  Ana Pérez  New 
document   
1 09/02/2023  Ana Pérez  9 One 
very serious 
deviation  added 
concerning  alcohol  
and drugs  
     
     
     
     
 
  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 3 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
 
Table of contents  
1. PURPOSE  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........................  4 
2. SCOPE  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 4 
3. REFERENCES  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  4 
4. RESPONSABILITIES  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  5 
5. NON -COMPLIANCE AND DEVIATIONS RELATED TO SAFE TY AND HEALTH  .. 6 
6. ACTIONS AGAINST NON -COMPLIANCE AND DEVIATIONS RELATED TO 
SAFETY AND HEALTH  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  7 
ANNEX 1 LIST OF DEVIATIONS  ................................ ................................ ............................  7 
ANNEX 2 CORRECTIVE ACTIONS  ................................ ................................ ......................  10 
ANNEX 3 CORRECTIVE ACTIONS FOR COMPANIES NOT BELONGING TO 
SIEMENS ENERGY, INCLUDING SUBCONTRACTORS  ................................ .................  13 
ANNEX 4. ROLES AND RESPONSABILITIES  ................................ ................................ ... 14 
ANNEX 5. DEVIATIONS AND NON -COMPLIANCE RECORDS FORMAT AND 
ACTIONS.  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 16 
5.1 Template for the Written Record of Safety Deviation / Safety Notification for Siemens 
Energy workers.  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................  16 
5.2 Template for the written notification of safety deviations / Safety Notification for 
companies not belonging to Siemens Energy, including su bcontractors.  ............................  16 
 
 
  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 4 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
1. PURPOSE  
 
Siemens Energy is committed to the proper management of the health, safety, and well-
being of our employees, customers, and other stakeholders who may be affected by our 
business and operational activities.  
 
The purpose of this procedure is to establish guidelines to identify situations in which 
deviations related to people's health and safety occur, as well as to specify the actions 
to be taken in these situations.  
 
Deviations related to the safety and health of people are understood to be behaviors that 
may cause harm to people. Therefore, rigorous monitoring of them is essen tial and, if 
they occur, they must be immediately corrected by SIEMENS Energy staff and, 
especially, by the managers of our organization, regardless of whether they are carried 
out on a voluntary or involuntary basis.  
 
When a person adopts unsafe behaviors, whether during their work in their own or 
someone else's facilities, they are not only putting their personal safety at risk, but also 
that of others and, additionally, they are putting into question the way of working of all 
SIEMENS personnel E nergy.  
 
All company personnel, regardless of their function, have an additional responsibility to 
make evident the behaviors associated with expectations in their daily work, serving as 
an example and reference, and to demand them from everyone who works f or SIEMENS 
Energy.  
2. SCOPE  
 
All SIEMENS Energy personnel, both those who provide services in their own centers 
and those of others.  
 
It also includes SIEMENS Energy workers from offices outside of Spain that are 
executing national projects.  
 
Companies that c arry out work in collaboration with SIEMENS Energy, including 
subcontractors, in which the coordination of business activities is required in accordance 
with the provisions of the Occupational Hazards Prevention Law.   
 
3. REFERENC ES 
 
• SIEMENS Energy  Zero Harm program  
• Law on the Prevention of Occupational Hazards (law 31/95 of 11/8/95) and its 
amendments  
• RD 171/2004, January 30, which develops article 24 of Law 31/1995, of 
November 8, on the Prevention of Occupational Hazards, regarding the 
coordination of busin ess activities and their modifications . 
  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 5 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
4. RESPONSABILI TIES  
 
All employees of SIEMENS ENERGY are obliged to comply with the principles and 
expectations of the Zero Harm Culture program (hereinafter ZHC) in their daily work and 
develop appropriate behaviors associated with the safety of people, serving as an 
example and reference, as well as to require them from everyone who works for 
SIEMENS ENERGY, correcting any non -compliance .  
 
ZERO HARM CULTURE PRINCIPLES  
 
In addition to our principles, the driving force behind our Zero Harm culture is a series of 
Behaviors and Safety Essentials.  
 
The Conducts establish ownership, responsibility and accountability at Siemens Energy, 
as well as a series of expectations for conduct that must be demonstrated by everyone 
in our company, regardless of the type of position, work activity or location.  
 
ZERO HARM CULTURE BEHAVIORS  
Demonstrated by everyone in our company, regardless of the type of position  
 
The Safety Essentials refer to safety rules a nd behavior expectations that must be strictly 
followed as they are associated with particularly dangerous risks of hazard. Non -
compliances or deviations related to these high -risk activities significantly increase the 
possibility of a serious or fatal acc ident.  

 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 6 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
SAFETY ESSENTIALS  
 
 
Since breaches of health and safety aspects pose an unacceptable risk within the 
organization's expectations, anyone is responsible for informing their line of command of 
any possible breach that they detect, being responsible for the stoppage of work in 
progress in case of imminent risk, taking into account the company's Stop Work  policy.  
 
At Siemens Energy, our highest priority is to promote a solid Zero Harm Culture in which 
injuries to people and adverse health effects are avoided and, therefore, there is no laxity 
when complying and demand compliance with behavioral expectations in everything that 
may affect them.  
 
For this reason, managers must be absolutely demanding in the face of deviations 
related to people's safety, applying a zero -tolerance polic y towards them.  
 
In the event that these breaches are carried out by workers of third companies, the 
person responsible for Siemens Energy must inform the person responsible for the 
company that employs said worker and the company that coordinates or assum es 
responsibility. in terms of safety in said workplace, so that both adopt the corrective 
measures they deem appropriate to avoid damage to people and / or facilities, including 
expelling the non -compliant person from the workplace. Siemens Energy will de mand to 
be informed of the measures adopted within 3 working days from the notification of the 
deviation.   
 
5. NON -COMPLIANCE AND DEVIATIONS RELATED 
TO SAFETY AND HEALTH  
 
In the area of Health and Safety, deviations related to people's safety are defined as 
undesirable behaviors and attitudes within the framework of the Zero Harm culture. 
Among them the following would be considered:  
 
A table is included as Annex 1, not exhaustive or limiting, and there may be others, of 
behaviors that constitute a deviation related to the safety of people, in order to facilitate 
their identification, being able to be detected from the observations made during the 
execution of the works, as well as through the investigation of incidents and accidents . 
 
  

 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 7 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
Deviations or breaches in the area of prevention of occupational hazards may also 
constitute a labor breach classified as a minor, serious or very serious offense in the 
collective agreement that is applicable to the worker who commits the offense. Thus , 
regardless of the corrective actions taken to avoid or mitigate damage to people or 
facilities, which do not constitute a sanction, the Company may decide to initiate a 
sanctioning procedure against the person who has committed the breach.  
 
The sanctioni ng power within the organization is exercised through the Human 
Resources department, who will determine if the breach constitutes a minor, serious or 
very serious infraction in accordance with the applicable regulations.  
 
Likewise, the Human Resources dep artment and the line of command will decide, in 
application of current regulations, how, if applicable, said infringement should be 
sanctioned, in view of the concurrent circumstances (the nature of the act, the 
intentionality, the level of risk or damage caused, the background , etc.), which may 
determine a different sanctioning response for apparently similar events.  
 
6. ACTIONS AGAINST NON -COMPLIANCE AND 
DEVIATIONS RELATED TO SAFETY AND HEALTH  
 
When a deviation related to human safety is detected, an immedia te response is 
essential. Otherwise, it would be reinforcing it, by conveying the message that this 
behavior has no consequence.  
 
Therefore, a response that will be proportional and graded to the nature of the deviation 
or non -compliance detected is essent ial. 
 
To provide a guide to guide the immediate actions to be taken, as well as subsequent 
actions, the table included in Annex 2 has been prepared.  
 
In any case, HR will determine whether to open a sanctioning procedure and, together 
with the command line , the sanction to be imposed.  
 
ANNEX 1 LIST  OF DEVIA TIONS  
 
1. Deviations detected in the work provided they do not result in a serious risk of 
hazard  to the physical integrity or health of the workers .  
 
• Inappropriate use or sporadic non -use of non-critical PPE (protective equipment), 
defined for each activity and that must be worn in the work area.  
• Using inappropriate work clothes or not wearing them in the right way.  
• Obstruct passageways due to abandonment or placement of objects. Lack of 
order  and cleanliness, as well as deviations in the delimitation and signaling of 
the work area.  
• Small oversights in the conservation of material; as well as, in the signaling and 
delimitation of stockpiles.  
• Use of unauthorized chemical products or without the corresponding safety data 
sheet.  
• Failure to attend training or informative actions related to Safety in maintenance, 
works or projects.  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 8 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
• Failure to report Near Miss or incidents suffered by both your own and the 
personnel in charge.  
• Do not alert when observing a situation of slight risk.  
• Other security breaches related to specific regulations in client facilities classified 
by the client as “mi nor”. 
 
2. Deviations detected in the work provided that they can lead to serious risks  to 
the physical integrity or health of the workers . 
 
• Repetition of behaviors described in the previous block, despite having been 
warned.  
• Failure to comply with any Safety Essential in the execution of the work that poses 
a slight or low probability risk to the safety and health of  the workers.  
• Failure to use the personal protective equipment established as critical for the 
development of the activity (class I and II PPE, for minor or intermediate risks).  
• Assign jobs to personnel who do not have adequate training to carry out the 
activity.  
• Do not carry out surveillance and supervision activities.  
• Failure to implement corrective actions for the deficiencies identified.  
• The abandonment of the job without just causes , when and as a consequence of 
it, harm or damage will be caused to any worker or third person.  
• Access the facilities with restricted access without express permission.  
• Use of tools or equipment not suitable for the work.  
• Carrying out work (at height, electrical, etc.) in weather conditions that obviously 
increase the leve l of risk without express authorization after the adoption of 
specific prevention measures, for each case and situation, previously agreed with 
the line and the OHP  department.  
• Refuse to carry the appropriate accreditations for special jobs or jobs that require 
authorizations.  
• Use of equipment not revised in accordance with current regulations or 
specifications.  
• Do not alert when observing a situation of serious risk.  
• Reiteration in the refusal to attend training or informative actions related to Saf ety 
in maintenance, works or projects.  
• Failure to repeatedly report a Near miss or incidents suffered.  
• Disobey any observation related to safety made by the Preventive Resource, 
Safety and Health Coordinator, Prevention Technician or a higher command.  
• Othe r breaches of security related to specific regulations in client facilities 
classified by the client as "serious" or recidivism in those classified by the client 
as "minor" .  
 
3. Deviations detected in the work provided that they can have very serious 
signifi cance  for the physical integrity or health of the workers. Serious breach of 
Safety Essentials . 
 
• Repetition of behaviors described in the previous block, despite having been 
warned.  
• Breaches of current legal regulations, internal regulations or Safety Essentials 
that pose a very serious and imminent risk to the safety and health of workers.  
• Access marked and / or delimited places without authorization . 
• Failure to obey the order to stop work ( Stop work ) in the event of a serious or 
imminent risk s ituation .  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 9 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
• Negligence and / or recklessness in the performance of functions that entails risk 
of accident for oneself or other people, or danger of damage to facilities.  
• Carry out any work within the facilities or work areas without having the 
correspondin g work permit.  
• Inappropriate use or non -use of critical personal protective equipment (PPE that 
protects against serious or fatal risks), defined for each activity and that should 
be worn in the work area.   
(Class III PPE, that is, PPE for Protection for W ork at Height, PPE for electrical 
or high voltage risks, PPE for protection against solid and liquid aerosols or 
against gases, as well as those required to carry out an emergency rescue. ) 
• Do not alert when observing a situation of serious and imminent ris k. 
• The omission of relief in an emergency situation.  
• Breach of action plans to correct deviations in Personal Safety issues.  
• Non-compliance with specific work procedures related to work with particularly 
dangerous risks (those included in the Safety Essentials)  
• Do not report accidents suffered by the people in charge, or very serious 
incidents.  
• R1: Consuming alcohol or drugs in the workplace, as well as g oing to work  
intoxicated or under the influence of any narcotic substance.  
observations regarding serious safety aspects made by the Preventive Resource, 
Health and Safety Coordinator, the Prevention Technician or a higher command.  
• Other breaches of security related to specific regulations in customer facilities 
classified by the client as "very serious" or recidivism in those classified by the 
same as "serious".  
 
The written record of the deviations corresponding to blocks 2 and 3, as well as the 
actions derived from these breaches, will be mandatory . 
 
“Deviations detected in the work whenever they can lead to serious risks  to the physical 
integrity or health of the workers” and “Deviations detected in the work whenev er they 
can have very serious significance for the physical integrity or health of the workers. 
working people. Serious breach of Safety Essentials”  
 
  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 10 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
ANNEX 2 CORRECTIVE ACTIONS  
 
Deviation or non -
compliance  Immediate action  Worker response   Subsequent performances  
Deviations 
detected in the 
work provided 
they do not result 
in a serious risk  to 
the physical 
integrity or health 
of the workers . 
 1.Immediate correction.  
 
2 Explanation of non -
compliance and 
possible consequences  
 
3. Analyze the 
response of the worker  
 Positiv e Not necessary.  
If the worker is a repeat 
offender, it is treated as 
indicated in the following 
line. 
Negativ e  
1. Inform a hierarchical 
superior.  
 
2. Inform OHP.  
 
3. Written record of the 
deviation detected 
with a required 
signature (not 
mandatory).  
 
4. Verification of the 
prevention and 
training plan for the 
worker.  
 
5. Planning a training 
Refreshment.  
 
  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 11 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
Deviation or non -
compliance  Immediate action  Worker response  Subsequent performances  
Deviations detected 
in the work 
provided that they 
can lead to serious 
risks to the physical 
integrity or health of 
the workers.  1.Immediate correction.  
 
2.Explanation of non -
compliance and 
possible 
consequences.  
 
(Written record of the 
deviation detected with 
required signature)  
 
3. Analyze the 
response of the worker.  Actions are taken in 
both cases and the 
Positive / Negative 
response will be 
assessed.  1. Inform a hierarchical 
superior.  
 
2. Inform OHP.  
 
3. Inform HR to assess 
whether a labor 
offense has been 
incurred and whether 
to initiate the 
disciplinary 
procedure.  
 
4. Written record of the 
deviation detected 
with a required 
signature.  
 
5. Verification of the 
prevention and 
training plan of the 
worker.   
 
- Evaluate the position of the 
worker regarding prevention 
(preventive resource, 
supervisor, etc.)  
-If necessary, interruption of 
the worker's tasks and 
sending to OHP training.  
-Replacement in other tasks .  
 
6. Dissemination of the 
event in the 
organization (LL) . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 12 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
Deviation or non -
compliance  Immediate action  Worker response  Subsequent performances  
Deviations detected 
in the work 
provided that they 
can have very 
serious significance  
for the physical 
integrity or health of 
the workers.  
Serious breach of 
Safety Essentials.  
 1.Immediate 
correction.  
 
2 Explanation of non -
compliance and 
possible 
consequences  
 
(Written record of the 
deviation detected 
with required 
signature)  
 
 
3. Assess stopping 
work.  
 
4. Assess the 
expulsion of the 
worker from the 
workplace.  Actions are taken 
in both cases 
and the Positive / 
Negative 
response will be 
assessed.  1. Inform the line for the worker 
to leave the job.  
 
2. Inform OHP of the event.  
 
3. Inform HR to assess whether 
a labor offense has been 
incurred and whether to 
initiate the disciplinary 
procedure.  
 
4. Written record of the 
deviation detected with a 
required signature.  
 
5. Verification of the prevention 
and training plan of the 
worker.  
 
-Evaluate the position of the 
worker regarding prevention 
(preventive resource, 
supervisor, etc.)  
-Interruption of the worker's 
tasks and sending them to 
OHP training.  
 
6. Assess the termination of the 
worker's presence in the 
facility, as well as their future 
incorporation into new jobs 
or exercising the same role 
(in relation to middle 
managers, team leaders, 
supervi sors, etc.)  
 
7. It is identified as a Relevant 
Incident and will be 
investigated.  
 
8. It is reported to the 
Directorate and it is 
disseminated to the 
organization (LL).  
  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 13 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
NOT E 
* Response of the worker : 
 
✓ The answer is positive when the person accepts the correction and expresses 
the commitment to avoid it in the future . 
 
❖ The answer will be negative when the person does not assume the breach or the 
recommendations and explanations given, tries to justify his/her behavior and / 
or does not manifest intention  to change .  
 
Also, if the person refuses to sign the record of the detected deviation provided 
for in Annex 2 and Annex 3 .   
 
ANNEX 3 CORRECTIVE ACTIONS FOR COMPANIES 
NOT BELONGING TO SIEMENS ENERGY, INCLUDING 
SUBCONTRACTORS  
 
In the event of deviation or non -compliance with regard to occupational hazards  prevention by 
non-Siemens Energy companies, including subcontractors, or by its staff, Siemens Energy will 
inform you of the deviation or non -compliance using the form provided  in the Annex 5.2.  
 
Once the non -compliance or deviation is notified, within 3 working days, the company must 
inform Siemens Energy, in writing, of the corrective actions taken and, where appropriate, the 
measures implemented to avoid or mitigate the damage caused to the people or facilities. In the 
event that Siemens Energy considers that the measures adopted by the company are 
insufficient, it will notify it in writing, the company being obliged to adopt the proposed 
measures or other alternatives th at offer the same level of security.  
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, to deviations or breaches in the prevention of occupational 
hazards carried out by companies or self -employed workers hired by Siemens Energy, the 
consequences provided for in the SIE_PGR L-19_OHP Works Management procedure will apply. 
For this purpose, a copy of the notifications sent to these entities will be transferred to the 
purchasing department .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 14 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
ANNEX 4. ROLES AND  RESPONSABILI TIES  
 
In general, non -compliance will be communicated to OHP and Project Manager 
by the person who detects the non -compliance once the immediate actions 
established in Annex 2 have been carried out.  
  
responsible (r), 
executed (e), 
informed (i).  
* it can be delegated 
to a qualified person  Person who 
detects non -
compliance  Person 
who 
breaches  Direct 
Responsible 
/ Manager  HS 
 Project 
Manager  HR 
IMMEDIATE ACTIONS  
1.Immediate 
correction.  r i r* r+e* r i  
2 Explanation 
of non -
compliance and 
possible 
consequences    r* r+e*   
4.Value 
stopping work  r,e i i  r,e r,e  
5. Assess the 
expulsion of the 
worker from the 
workplace . 
 - i r,e i r,e (agreed 
with the 
Direct 
Manager ) i 
  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 15 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
responsible (r), 
executed (e), informed 
(i). 
* it can be delegated to 
a qualified person  Person who 
detects non-
compliance  Person 
who 
breaches  Direct 
Responsible / 
Manager  HS 
 Project 
Manager  HR 
SUBSEQUENT ACTIONS  
Report incident to 
the line  i i i r+e* r+e* - 
Report incident to 
OHP  r+e i i i r+e - 
Communicate to 
HR - - i i r+e* i 
Written deviation 
record  - I i r+e* r* i 
Worker Specific 
Prevention Plan / 
Risk Assessment 
check  - - - r+e* i - 
Training refresh 
planning  - i i r+e* i - 
Change of 
worker functions 
or termination of 
activity  - i r* i i e 
Investigation of 
the event  - i i r+e* r+e* - 
Dissemination to 
the organization  - - - r+e* r+e* - 
 
 
  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 16 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
ANNEX 5. DEVIATIONS AND NON -COMPLIANCE 
RECORDS FORMAT AND ACTIONS . 
 
5.1 Template for the Written Record of Safety Deviation / Safety Notification for 
Siemens Energy workers .  
 
5.2 Template for the written notification of safety deviations / Safety Notification 
for companies not belonging to Siemens Energy, including subcontractors .  
  
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 17 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
SAFETY DEVIATION RECORD  
SAFETY NOTIFICATION  
Person who commits deviation/non -compliance  
Name,  surname  Job position,  Professional profile  
    
Person in charge of who commits diversion/non -compliance  
Name,  surname  Job position,  Professional profile  
    
Description of the event  
Date  Hour  Workplace,  project  
      
Events  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature registration  
Person in charge  Person who commits deviation  
    
This communication does NOT  constitute a sanction and does not exclude the possibility of initiating 
a sanctioning process. The purpose is to record the deviation or non -compliance observed with respect 
to the health and safety measures and established behaviors, to remember the reg ulations in force in 
the Company and to reinforce their compliance.  
 
 
 
 
 EHS Department  
SIEMENS ENERGY  
 
Page 18 of 18 
Restringido  @ Siemens Energy,2021  
 
SAFETY NOTIFICATION  
Person who commits deviation/non -compliance  
Name,  surname  Job position,  Professional profile  
    
Person in charge of the company that receives the notification  
Name, surname  Company information  
  
Contact telephone and email    
Description of the event  
Date  Hour  Workplace,  project  
      
Events  
 
Include a description of the events and identify the people who have starred in them  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature registration  
Person who commits deviation/non -
compliance  Person in charge of the company that 
receives the notification  
 
    
Within 3 working days you must inform in writing, through the email address provided, about the 
corrective measures adopted to ensure that behaviors such as those described do not occur again 
and, where appropriate, those adopted to avoid or mitigate the harm done to people.  
 