  
 
General Delivery Conditions of Siemens Energy AG for its Product Business (Version 04.2021)  
 
© Siemens Energy 202 1  
 
1. General Provisions  
1.1 Offers that do not include a deadline for acceptance (binding 
period) are not binding .  
1.2 The Agreement has been formed upon dispatch of the order 
confirmation and the annexes to the same by Siemens  Energy 
Ltd (hereinafter “Siemens Energy”) . If no specifications docu-
ment is attached to the Agreement, the goods and services 
(collectively called the “deliverable”) shall be provided as stat-
ed in the technical specifications and the rules and regulations  
in force in Switzerland on the date of the offer.  
1.3 Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the Purchaser acknowl-
edges upon entry into the Agreement that the present Condi-
tions of Delivery are binding. Any conditions of the Purchaser 
are not applicable.  
1.4 Brochu res and catalogues are not binding.  
1.5 Customer -specific systems to be developed by Siemens  Ener-
gy shall be exclusively subject to the “General Delivery Condi-
tions for Customer -specific Systems” of Siemens  Energy . 
2. Software  
2.1 Siemens Energy  software is licensed,  and not sold, under the 
end-user licence agreement (EULA) individually made or is-
sued in conjunction with the software. The software is issued in 
object code without source codes. The licence only grants the 
right to use the software in connection with th e deliverable. It 
may only be transferred together with the deliverable. The Pur-
chaser does not have the right to modify or reverse engineer 
the software.  
2.2 Any commercially available, standard software to be supplied 
by Siemens Energy  is exclusively subject  to the applicable de-
livery and licence conditions of the respective manufacturer.  
2.3 Insofar as the software contains Open Source Software (OSS), 
the OSS is listed in the menu under the heading “Licence In-
formation” or in written documentation pertaining to the soft-
ware. If the OSS licence conditions so require, Siemens Ener-
gy shall issue the OSS source codes upon payment of ship-
ping and handling costs.  
3. Prices  
3.1 Unless otherwise agreed, all Siemens Energy  prices are stated 
in Swiss francs. Deliveries are EXW o f the respective Swiss 
storage location pursuant to INCOTERMS 2020 . 
3.2 In the event of a change in the circumstances on which the 
pricing is based, including but not limited to parities between 
currencies or public/official taxes, charges, fees and customs 
duties, etc. occurring between the time of the offer and the 
agreed delivery date, Siemens Energy  has the right to adjust 
prices and conditions to the altered circumstances.  
4. Payment Terms  
4.1 Unless otherwise agreed, invoices from Siemens Energy  are 
due immediately and must be paid no later than on the 30th 
day after the invoice date, without discounts or other deduc-
tions. Payment is deemed to have been made if the total 
amount due has been credited, free of charge, to an account 
identified on th e invoice in Swiss francs and is fully available to 
Siemens Energy . The Purchaser is not permitted to offset any 
counterclaims against the payment.  
4.2 If the Purchaser fails to comply with the agreed payment peri-
ods, it shall be in default, no reminder being required, and it 
must pay default interest of 8% per annum  as of the 31st day 
after the invoice date.  
5. Reservation of Title  
Siemens Energy  shall reta in title to all of its deliverables until 
such time as it has received the agreed payments in full. Upon 
acceptance of the deliverable, the Purchaser authorises Sie-
mens Energy  to register its reservation of title. For the period of 
reservation of title, th e Purchaser shall maintain the delivered 
items at its own expense and insure them on behalf of Sie-
mens Energy  against theft, breakage, fire, water damage, and 
other risks.  
6. Delivery Period  
6.1 The delivery period begins as soon as the Agreement has 
been entered  into and all official formalities have been ob-
tained or fulfilled, as the case may be. The delivery period shall 
be deemed to have been observed if the delivery has been 
made or the Purchaser has been notified that the deliverable is 
ready for shipment. P artial deliveries are permitted.  
 
 
 
 6.2 The delivery period shall be extended for a reasonable time:  
- if Siemens Energy  does not receive in a timely manner the 
information it requires in order to fulfil the Agreement, or if 
the Purchaser subsequently requests changes or additions;  
 
- if impediments arise that Siemens Energy  is unable to avert 
despite exercising due care, regardless of whether these 
impediments occur at the facility of Siemens Energy , the 
Purchaser, or a third party. Such impediments include, by 
way of example: export and import restrictions, boycott or-
ders of national or supranational organisations, or official 
acts or omissions; labour conflicts and other disruptions of 
operations not attributable to Siemens Energy , epidemics, 
natural phenomena, hacker attacks, and terrorist activities. 
Should such impediments occur, Siemens Energy  shall in-
form the Purchaser promptly and keep it apprised of the ex-
tent and background of the impediments.  
- if the Purchaser or third parties engaged by it default on per-
forming the work to be executed by them or on fulfilling their 
contractual duties, or if the Purchaser fails to comply with the 
payment terms.  
6.3 In case of delays demonstrably caused by Siemens Energy , 
the Purchaser has the right to claim compensation for losses 
resulting from default, provided the Purchaser can prove that it 
has incurred a loss. If the Purchaser receives a substitute de-
livery in a timely manner, the aforementioned claim shall not 
apply.  
6.4 As of the end of the second week, th e compensation shall be 
no more than 0.5% for every full week of delay, but in total no 
more than 5%, calculated on the contractual price of the de-
layed portion of the deliverable.  
6.5 Once the compensation for losses resulting from default has 
reached the maximum, the Purchaser may grant Siemens a 
reasonable grace period in writing. If Siemens fails to comply 
with this period for reasons attributable to Siemens, the Pur-
chaser has the right to decline acceptance of the late portion of 
the deliverable. If par tial acceptance is financially unreasona-
ble for the Purchaser, the Purchaser has the right to withdraw 
from the Agreement and to reclaim any prior payments made 
in exchange for return of the corresponding deliverables.  
6.6 As regards late delivery or services,  the Purchaser has no 
rights or claims except for those expressly specified in this pa-
ra. 6.  
6.7 If a particular date is agreed upon in lieu of a deli very period, 
this date shall be considered as the last day of a delivery peri-
od. Paragraphs 6.1 through 6.6 are applicable accordingly.  
7. Transfer of  Benefit and Risk  
The benefit and risk shall pass to the Purchaser upon dispatch 
of the report that the deliverable is ready for shipment If no re-
port is made, the benefit and risk shall pass at the beginning of 
the transport to the storage site. If delive ry, assembly, or instal-
lation is delayed at the Purchaser’s request or for other rea-
sons not attributable to Siemens Energy , the risk shall pass to 
the Purchaser at the date and time originally scheduled.  
8. Inspection and Acceptance  
8.1 The execution of an accep tance inspection, as well as the 
conditions of this inspection, shall require a separate agree-
ment.  
8.2 The Purchaser must inspect the deliverable upon receipt and 
notify Siemens Energy  immediately in writing concerning any 
defects. If the Purchaser fails to do this, the deliverable shall 
be deemed approved.  
8.3 Siemens Energy  shall correct the defects reported to it in 
accordance with para. 8.2 as soon as possible either through 
repair or substitute delivery, at its option. The Purchaser must 
grant Siemens Energy  the time and opportunity necessary to 
correct the defects.  Replaced parts must be returned to Sie-
mens Energy . 
8.4 In respect of defects of any kind in the deliverable, the Pur-
chaser has no rights or claims except for those expressly re-
ferred to in this para.8 and in para. 9 (Warranty).  
9. Warranty  
9.1 Unless otherwise agreed, the warranty period for the delivera-
ble is 24 mon ths. This period shall begin to run upon the un-
loading of the deliverable at the Purchaser’s delivery site in 
Switzerland.  If shipment is delayed for reasons not attributable 
to Siemens Energy , the warranty period shall end no later than 
30 months from the  date of notification that the deliverable is 
ready for shipment.  
  
 
General Delivery Conditions of Siemens Energy AG for its Product Business (Version 04.2021)  
 
© Siemens Energy 202 1  
 
 
9.2 For substituted or repaired parts of the deliverable, the warran-
ty period is six months from the date of substitution or repair, if 
the warranty period for the deliverable expires earlier. In any 
case, the warranty period shall end no later than 30 months 
from the beginning of the original warranty period  
9.3 The warranty shall expire prematurely if the Purchaser or a 
third party makes alterations or repairs without the prior written 
consent of Siemens Energy  or if the Purchaser, having identi-
fied a defect, fails to take immediately all proper measures to 
mitigate losses, notify Siemens Energy  of the defect and grant 
Siemens Energy  the opportunity to correct the same.  
9.4 Siemens Energy  agrees, upon the written request of the Pur-
chaser, to correct or replace, at its option, as soon as feasible 
all parts of the deliverable that become damaged or unusable 
because of poor material, faulty construction, or defective exe-
cution until the expiry of the warra nty period. The rejected parts 
must be delivered to Siemens Energy  upon request. Where 
Siemens Energy  does not request such return, the parts shall 
be disposed of by the Purchaser.  
9.5 The only warranted qualities are those expressly designated as 
such in the order confirmation. The warranty is deemed to 
have been fulfilled if proof of the relevant quality has been pro-
vided at the time of the acceptance; otherwise, the warranty 
applies until the expiry of the warranty period, and no longer. 
Unless the warranted  qualities are satisfied in full, the Pur-
chaser shall initially have the right to correction by Siemens 
Energy . Unless this correction is fully successful, the Purchas-
er has the right to a reasonable reduction of the price. If the de-
fect is so serious that  it cannot be corrected within a reasona-
ble period, and if the deliverable cannot be utilised for the 
agreed use, the Purchaser has the right to decline acceptance 
of the defective part or, if it is unreasonable for the Purchaser 
to accept a partial delive ry, the Purchaser may withdraw from 
the Agreement. Siemens Energy  may only be required to re-
fund the amounts it has been paid for the parts of the delivera-
ble affected by this withdrawal.  
9.6 The warranty and liability of Siemens Energy  do not cover 
losses tha t have not demonstrably arisen from poor material, 
defective construction or faulty execution, e.g., as a result of 
normal wear and tear, faulty maintenance, non -compliance 
with operating rules, undue strain, inappropriate equipment, 
chemical or electrolyt ic effects, construction or assembly work 
not performed by Siemens Energy , or for other reasons not at-
tributable to Siemens Energy . 
9.7 In the event of defective software, a prerequisite for correction 
of defects is that the defect must be documented in detail , 
where possible, and reproducible in the unaltered original ver-
sion on the contractually specified reference or target hard-
ware. Defects in the software shall be corrected initially via up-
grade or update where this is possible at reasonable costs. If 
the defect prevents the Purchaser from completing important, 
time-sensitive tasks, Siemens Energy  shall find a workaround 
where this is possible within a reasonable time and effort. In 
the event of loss of or damage to data and/or data media, the 
warranty only  covers the installation of backed -up data.  
9.8 The Purchaser has no rights and claims other than those 
expressly indicated in paras. 9.1 through 9.7 in respect of de-
fects in materials, construction or execution, as well as in re-
spect of the absence of warrant ed qualities.  
10. Other Liability  
Any claims of the Purchaser other than those expressly speci-
fied in these Delivery Conditions, regardless of legal basis, in 
particular, all claims for compensation, reduction of the pur-
chase price, cancellation of or withdrawal from the Agreement 
that are not expressly specified, are excluded. Under no cir-
cumstance shall the Purchaser have any right to compensa-
tion for losses not incurred by the deliverable itself, such as 
loss of production, loss of use, loss of order s, lost profits, or 
other direct or indirect losses. This limitation of liability does 
not apply in case of gross negligence or wrongful intent or 
where precluded by mandatory law.  
11. Compliance with Export Control Regulations  
11.1 Siemens Energy shall not be obligated to fulfill this agreement 
if such fulfillment is prevented by any impediments arising out 
of national or international foreign trade or customs require-
ments or any embargoes or other sanctions . 
 
 
  
11.2 If Purchaser transfers goods (hardware and/ or s oftware and/ 
or technology as well as corresponding documentation, regard-
less of the mode of provision) delivered by Siemens Energy or 
works and services (including all kinds of technical support) 
performed by Siemens Energy to a third party worldwide, Pur-
chaser shall comply with all applicable national and interna-
tional (re -) export control regulations. In any event Purchaser 
shall comply with the (re -) export control regulations of Switzer-
land, Germany,  of the European Union and of the United 
States of Am erica.  
11.3 If required to conduct export control checks, Purchaser, upon 
request by Siemens Energy, shall promptly provide Siemens 
Energy with all information pertaining to particular end custom-
er, destination and intended use of goods, works and services 
provided by Siemens Energy, as well as any export control re-
strictions existing.  
11.4 Purchaser shall indemnify and hold harmless Siemens Energy 
from and against any claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost 
and damages arising out of or relating to any noncompli ance 
with export control regulations by Purchaser, and Purchaser 
shall compensate Siemens Energy for all losses and expenses 
resulting thereof, unless such noncompliance was not caused 
by fault of the Purchaser. This provision does not imply a 
change in bu rden of proof.  
12. Confidentiality and Data Protection  
12.1 Siemens Energy  and the Purchaser shall undertake to treat 
confidentially all documents, information, tools and software 
received in connection with this Agreement and not publicly 
available, as their own t rade secrets, even after the termination 
of the Agreement, and to refrain from distributing them unnec-
essarily within their respective companies and from making 
them available either in whole or in part to third parties, except 
subcontractors.  
12.2 If, in the course of its work on the deliverable and documenta-
tion, Siemens Energy  processes personal data, Siemens En-
ergy shall comply with the relevant data protection laws. Sie-
mens Energy  shall take appropriate measures to safeguard 
such data against unauthorised access by third parties.  
12.3 The Purchaser acknowledges that the data, information and 
documents concerning the Purchaser may be stored inside or 
outside Switzerland. They may be disclosed to Siemens Ener-
gy and to its affiliates for purposes of fulfilling the Agreement.  
13. Governing Law  
The contractual relationship shall be governed by the substan-
tive laws of Switzerland. The UN Convention on Contracts for 
the International Sale of Goods (UN CISG) of 11 April 1980 
shall not apply to this contractual relationship.  
14. Venue  
The venue for both the Purchaser and Siemens Energy  is Zur-
ich.  
However, Siemens Energy  also has the right to take legal ac-
tion against the Purchaser at the domicile of the latter.  