  
 
General Delivery Conditions of Siemens Energy for Customer -specific Systems (Version 04.2021)  
 
© Siemens Energy  2021 Page 1 of 4 
 
1. Entry into Agreement, Deliverable  
1.1 These General Delivery Conditions shall govern the contract 
relations between Customer and Siemens Energy  Ltd 
(hereinafter “Siemens Energy”) , for the delivery of systems 
(products, together with further services), which Siemens 
Energy  performs at the premises of Customer or by remotely 
accessing Customer’s IT systems. They shall also apply in the 
event that Customer indirectly accesses its own  systems via 
the Siemens Energy  systems.  
1.2 Offers that do not include a deadline for acceptance (binding 
period) are not binding.  
1.3 The Agreement has been formed upon dispatch of the order 
confirmation and the annexes to the same by Siemens Energy . 
If a separ ate specifications document is not attached to the 
Agreement, the goods and services (collectively called the 
“deliverable”) shall be provided as stated in the technical 
specifications of Siemens Energy  and the rules and regulations 
in force in Switzerland  on the effective date of the Agreement.  
1.4 Unless otherwise agreed in writing, Customer acknowledges 
upon entry into the Agreement that the present Conditions of 
Delivery are binding. Any conditions of Customer are not 
applicable.  
1.5 Agreements, amendments to the Agreement, and other 
declarations of the Parties having legal significance must be 
made in writing in order to be valid. This writing requirement 
may only be waived by means of a written document. Offers 
and confirmations of orders by Siemens Energy  may also be 
electronically signed with a Siemens Energy  Certificate.  
1.6 Siemens Energy  has the right to engage subcontractors for the 
purpose of performing certain work and/or manufacturing 
particular parts of the deliverable.  
2. Software  
2.1 Siemens Energy  software i s licensed, and not sold, under the 
end-user licence agreement (EULA) individually made or 
issued in conjunction with the software. The software is issued 
in object code without source codes. The licence only grants 
the right to use the software in connect ion with the deliverable. 
It may only be transferred together with the deliverable. 
Customer does not have the right to modify or reverse 
engineer the software.  
2.2 Any commercially available, standard software to be supplied 
by Siemens Energy  is exclusively s ubject to the applicable 
delivery or licence conditions, as the case may be, of the 
respective manufacturer.  
2.3 Insofar as the software contains Open Source Software 
(“OSS”), the OSS is listed in the menu under the heading 
“Licence Information” or in written documentation pertaining to 
the software. If the OSS licence conditions so require, Siemens 
Energy  shall issue the OSS source codes upon payment of 
shipping and handling costs.  
3. Prices  
3.1 All prices are stated in Swiss francs and are based on the 
Delivery Con ditions described herein and on Customer’s 
circumstances notified to Siemens Energy  at the time of 
pricing. All ancillary costs not expressly included in the price, 
such as assembly, transport, customs duties, insurance, and 
export, transit, import, and ot her permits, as well as 
authentications shall be borne by Customer. Furthermore, any 
and all support services, as well as travel and accommodation 
expenses for personnel, are not included in the price.  These 
costs shall be billed at the standard rates of Siemens Energy . 
3.2 In the event of a change in the circumstances on which the 
pricing is based, including but not limited to parities between 
currencies or public/official taxes, charges, fees and customs 
duties, etc. occurring between the time of the offer an d the 
agreed delivery date, Siemens Energy  has the right to adjust 
prices and conditions to the altered circumstances. In the event 
of changes in wage rates or prices of materials, the prices shall 
be adjusted in accordance with the sliding price formula o f 
SWISSMEM.  
3.3 If circumstances attributable to Customer result in additional 
expenses, Siemens Energy  shall promptly notify Customer. 
The Parties shall mutually arrange a reasonable adjustment to 
the agreed price prior to implementation.  
 
 
 
 
 4. Payment Terms  
4.1 Unless otherwise agreed, invoices from Siemens Energy  are 
due immediately and must be paid no later than on the 30th day 
after the invoice date, without discounts or other deductions. 
Payment is deemed to have been made if the total amount due 
has been credited, free of charge, to an account identified on 
the invoice in Swiss francs and is fully available to Siemens 
Energy . Customer is not permitted to offset any counterclaims 
against the payment.  
4.2 Payment periods must be observed even if transport, delivery, 
assembly, commissioning, or acceptance of the goods  or 
services are delayed or precluded for reasons not attributable 
to Siemens Energy  or if non -significant parts are missing or 
subsequent work that does not preclude use of the deliverable 
proves necessary.  
4.3 If Customer is in arrears on a payment for any r eason 
whatsoever or if, because of circumstances arising after the 
Parties entered into the Agreement, Siemens Energy  seriously 
doubts that it will receive the payments in full or on time, 
Siemens Energy  has the right, without waiving any of its other 
rights, to discontinue delivery until such time as it receives 
securities or prepayments.  
4.4 If Customer fails to comply with the agreed payment periods, it 
shall be in default, no reminder being required, and it must pay 
default interest of 8% per annum  as of t he 31st day after the 
invoice date.  
5. Reservation of Title  
5.1 Siemens Energy  shall retain title to all of its deliverables until 
such time as it has received the agreed payments in full. Upon 
acceptance of the deliverable, Customer authorises Siemens 
Energy  to register its reservation of title. For the period of 
reservation of title, Customer shall maintain the delivered items 
at its own expense and insure them on behalf of Siemens 
Energy  against theft, breakage, fire, water damage, and other 
risks.  
6. Performance of contract by remote access  
6.1 To the extent the deliverable in question is susceptible to 
remote delivery, Siemens Energy  may also perform the 
delivery by remotely accessing Customer’s systems and 
databases. Customer hereby grants Siemens Energy  the 
author isations required for this purpose and shall, at its own 
cost and expense, inform Siemens Energy  and its staff 
regarding its IT processes.  
6.2 It is the assumption of Siemens Energy  that Customer 
maintains an IT security scheme comporting with the state of 
the art, and shall ensure that the appropriate security 
measures (e.g. system security updates and anti -virus 
programs) are taken and always kept up -to-date.  
6.3 In the event that licences are needed on the side of Customer 
for Siemens Energy ’s remote access, Cus tomer shall procure 
such licences at its own cost and expense and shall maintain 
them in force throughout the entire period of the delivery.  
6.4 In order to undertake the remote access, Siemens Energy  shall 
be entitled to access Customer systems and databases 
relevant to its work.  
6.5 Siemens Energy  may copy data from Customer’s systems to 
its own systems if this is indispensible in order to perform 
troubleshooting analysis or rectify faults.  
7. Delivery Period  
7.1 The delivery period begins after issuance of the order 
confirmation and when all contractual,  technical, and official 
formalities, such as import, export, transit, and payment 
permits have been obtained or fulfilled, as the case may be, 
and the deliverable has been determined. The delivery period 
shall be deemed to have been observed if the delive rable has 
been delivered or assembled or installed, as the case may be, 
at the agreed place by the expiry of this period and if the 
acceptance can be conducted immediately. Partial deliveries 
are permitted.  
  
  
 
General Delivery Conditions of Siemens Energy for Customer -specific Systems (Version 04.2021)  
 
© Siemens Energy  2021 Page 2 of 4 
 
7.2 The delivery period shall be extended for a rea sonable time:  
- if Siemens Energy  does not receive in a timely manner the 
information and materials it requires in order to fulfil the 
Agreement, or if Customer subsequently requests changes 
or additions;  
- if impediments arise that Siemens Energy  is unable to avert 
despite exercising due c are, regardless of whether these 
impediments occur at the facility of Siemens Energy , 
Customer, or a third party. Such impediments include, for 
example: export and import restrictions, boycott orders of 
national or supranational organisations, or official acts or 
omissions; labour conflicts and other disruptions of 
operations not attributable to Siemens Energy , epidemics, 
natural phenomena, hacker attacks, and terrorist activities. 
Should such impediments occur, Siemens Energy  shall 
inform Customer promptly  and keep it apprised of the extent 
and background of the impediments;  
- if Customer or third parties engaged by it default on 
performing work or on fulfilling their contractual duties, or if 
Customer fails to comply with the payment terms;  
- If Customer has not put the necessary preconditions in place 
for Siemens Energy ’s remote access or if they fail 
temporarily or entirely;  
- If the remote access is misused or if risks to the system in 
question are present.  
7.3 In case of delays demonstrably caused by Siemens Ene rgy, 
Customer has the right to claim compensation for losses 
resulting from default, provided Customer can prove that it has 
incurred a loss as a result. If Customer receives a substitute 
delivery in a timely manner, the aforementioned claim shall not 
apply. 
7.4 As of the end of the second week, the compensation for losses 
resulting from default shall be no more than 0.5% for every full 
week of delay, but in total no more than 5%, calculated on the 
contractual price of the delayed portion of the deliverable.  
7.5 Once the compensation for losses resulting from default has 
reached the maximum, Customer may grant Siemens Energy  a 
reasonable final grace period in writing. If Siemens Energy  fails 
to comply with this period for reasons attributable to Siemens 
Energy , Cus tomer has the right to decline acceptance of the 
late portion of the deliverable. If partial acceptance is 
financially unreasonable for Customer, Customer has the right 
to withdraw from the Agreement and to reclaim any prior 
payments made in exchange for r eturn of the corresponding 
deliverables.  
7.6 As regards late delivery, Customer has no rights or claims 
other than those expressly specified in this para. 7.  
8. Cooperation between the Parties  
8.1 Siemens Energy  and Customer shall jointly strive to fulfil the 
Agreement and take in a timely manner all precautions 
necessary for purposes of fulfilling the same.  
8.2 Customer shall make in a timely manner and free of charge 
properly equipped workstations and materials (in cluding the 
necessary power supply) available to employees of Siemens 
Energy  working at Customer’s facility.  
8.3 Customer shall lend to Siemens Energy  free of charge any 
additional required materials, software, and/or test data on 
suitable data media.  
8.4 Either p arty may suspend the remote access with immediate 
effect if such access is misused or if risks to the system in 
question are otherwise present.  
9. Amendments to the Agreement  
Where unforeseen events materially affect the content of the 
deliverable or the wor k performed by Siemens Energy , as well 
as in the event that implementation becomes impossible, the 
Agreement shall be amended accordingly. If this is 
unreasonable for financial reasons, Siemens Energy  has the 
right to cancel the Agreement or the affected p arts of the 
same. If Siemens Energy  wishes to cancel the Agreement, 
Siemens Energy  shall inform Customer after having realised 
the implications of the event, even if the Parties initially agreed 
to extend the delivery period. In the event of cancellation o f the 
Agreement, Siemens Energy  has the right to payment of the 
deliverable already provided in accordance with the agreed 
price. Customer has no right to damages arising from such 
cancellation of the Agreement.  
 
 
 10. Transfer of Benefit and Risk  
The benefit and risk shall pass to Customer upon report of its 
readiness to accept delivery failing this, at the beginning of the 
transport to the storage site. If delivery, assembly, or 
installation is delayed at Customer’s request or for other 
reasons not attributab le to Siemens Energy , the risk shall pass 
to Customer at the date and time originally scheduled.  
11. Acceptance (Approval)  
11.1 Siemens Energy  shall notify Customer that the deliverable is 
ready for acceptance at least five business days in advance.  
11.2 Within one month, beginning upon notification that the 
deliverable is ready for acceptance, Customer and Siemens 
Energy  shall jointly conduct an acceptance inspection in 
accordance with the relevant contractual agreements.  
11.3 Siemens Energy  shall draw up an a cceptance record which 
shall be signed by both Siemens Energy  and Customer. The 
acceptance record must state whether the acceptance has 
taken place or been declined. Any notified defects must be 
individually included in the acceptance record.  
11.4 Siemens Energ y shall correct the recorded defects as soon as 
possible either through repair or substitute delivery, at its 
option. Customer shall grant Siemens Energy  the requisite 
time and opportunity to correct the defects. Replaced parts 
must be returned to Siemens Energy . 
11.5 If the acceptance inspection reveals only non -significant 
defects that do not materially impair the agreed use, Customer 
must accept the deliverable.  
11.6 If the acceptance inspection reveals defects that preclude the 
agreed use, Siemens Energy  shall on ce again notify Customer 
that the deliverable is ready for acceptance after correcting the 
same, for purposes of which Customer shall grant Siemens 
Energy  a reasonable grace period.  
11.7 If defects identified during the subsequent acceptance 
inspection or duri ng the warranty period cannot be corrected 
within a reasonable period and are so serious that the agreed 
use of the deliverable remains impossible, Customer has the 
right either to request a reasonable reduction of the agreed 
price, or to decline acceptanc e of the defective part or, if partial 
acceptance is unreasonable for Customer, to withdraw from 
the Agreement. In this case, Siemens Energy  may only be 
required to refund the amounts paid for the parts of the 
deliverable not accepted by Customer.  
11.8 If Custo mer does not accept the deliverable even though there 
are no defects that preclude the agreed use, or if Customer 
declines to sign the acceptance record together with Siemens 
Energy , the deliverable shall be deemed accepted upon expiry 
of the respective ac ceptance periods.  
12. Warranty  
12.1 Unless otherwise agreed, the warranty period for the 
deliverable is 24 months. This period shall begin to run upon 
acceptance of the deliverable.  If shipment is delayed for 
reasons not attributable to Siemens Energy , the warranty 
period shall end no later than 30 months from the date of 
notification that the deliverable is ready for acceptance.  
12.2 For substituted or repaired parts of the deliverable, the 
warranty period is 6 months from the date of substitution, 
completion of repair, or acceptance of the substituted or 
repaired parts, if the warranty period for the deliverable expires 
earlier in accordance with the foregoing paragraph. In any 
case, the  warranty period shall end no later than 30 months 
from the date of notification that the deliverable is ready for 
acceptance.  
12.3 The warranty shall expire prematurely if Customer or a third 
party makes alterations or repairs without the prior written 
consent  of Siemens Energy  or if Customer, having identified a 
defect, fails to take immediately all proper measures to mitigate 
losses, notify Siemens Energy  of the defect and grant Siemens 
Energy  the opportunity to correct the same.  
12.4 Defects identified during the  warranty period must be notified 
to Siemens Energy  in writing immediately but within no more 
than five business days. Siemens Energy  shall correct the 
notified defects as soon as feasible either through repair or 
substitute delivery, at its option. Where defective parts are 
replaced in the process, the defective parts shall become the 
property of Siemens Energy . 
12.5 The costs of defect corrections performed at the factory shall 
be borne by Siemens Energy . If a defect cannot be corrected 
at the factory of Sieme ns Energy , the associated costs shall be 
borne by Customer insofar as they exceed the standard 
transport, personnel, travel and accommodation expenses, as 
well as the costs of installing & uninstalling the defective parts.  
  
 
General Delivery Conditions of Siemens Energy for Customer -specific Systems (Version 04.2021)  
 
© Siemens Energy  2021 Page 3 of 4 
 
12.6 The only warranted qualities are those expressly designated as 
such in the order confirmation. The warranty is deemed to 
have been fulfilled if proof of the relevant quality has been 
provided at the time of the acceptance inspection; otherwise, 
the warranty applies until the expiry of the  warranty period, and 
no longer. Unless the warranted qualities are satisfied in full, 
Customer shall initially have the right to correction by Siemens 
Energy . Unless this correction is fully successful, Customer 
has the right to a reasonable reduction of the price. If the 
defect is so serious that it cannot be corrected within a 
reasonable period, and if the deliverable cannot be utilised for 
the agreed use, Customer has the right to decline acceptance 
of the defective part or, if it is unreasonable for Cu stomer to 
accept a partial delivery, Customer may withdraw from the 
Agreement. Siemens Energy  may only be required to refund 
the amounts it has been paid for the parts of the deliverable 
affected by this withdrawal.  
12.7 The warranty and liability of Siemens En ergy do not cover 
losses that have not demonstrably arisen from poor material, 
defective construction or faulty execution, e.g., as a result of 
normal wear and tear, faulty maintenance, non -compliance 
with operating rules, undue strain, inappropriate equip ment, 
chemical or electrolytic effects or disturbances resulting from 
equipment not supplied by Siemens Energy , construction or 
assembly work not performed by Siemens Energy , or for other 
reasons not attributable to Siemens Energy . 
12.8 In the event of defectiv e software, a prerequisite for correction 
of defects is that the defect must be documented in detail, 
where possible, and reproducible in the unaltered original 
version on the contractually specified reference or target 
hardware. Defects in the software sh all be corrected initially via 
upgrade or update where this is possible at reasonable costs. 
If the defect prevents Customer from completing important, 
time-sensitive tasks, Siemens Energy  shall find a workaround 
where this is possible within a reasonable time and effort. In 
the event of loss of or damage to data and/or data media, the 
warranty only covers the installation of backed -up data.  
12.9 For deliverables provided by subcontractors, as well as for 
standard devices originating from sub -suppliers, such as 
computers, printers etc., Siemens Energy  shall assign to 
Customer the rights vis -à-vis the subcontractors.  
12.10  The term “defect” refers to deviations in deliverables, software 
and/or documentation vis -à-vis the requirements expressly 
agreed upon in the Agreeme nt and the annexes to the same.  
12.11  Customer has no rights and claims other than those expressly 
indicated in this para. 12 in respect of defects in materials, 
construction or execution, as well as in respect of the absence 
of warranted qualities.  
12.12  Siemens Ener gy has the right to bill to Customer the costs 
associated with troubleshooting if the defects notified by 
Customer cannot be identified or reproduced in the course of 
troubleshooting. If defects in any deliverable or software are 
attributable to fault on t he part of Customer, Siemens Energy  
shall correct these defects at Customer’s request for a 
reasonable fee and on terms to be agreed upon in each case.  
13. Other Liability  
13.1 Siemens Energy  shall only be liable for the correctness of the 
data provided by Siemens Energy  at the WAN exit point of the 
computer used by Siemens Energy . 
13.2 In the event of loss or damage to data and/or data media 
material, Siemens Energy ’s liability to Customer shall be 
limited to the reinstallation of backup data.  
13.3 Customer shall bear sole responsibility for the data access it 
has requested and for compliance with the provisions of law 
applicable in connection therewith.  
13.4 Where Customer uses the remote access to make changes to 
its own system, Customer shall bear sole responsibility 
therefor .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13.5 Any claims of Customer other than those expressly specified in 
the Agreement and these General Delivery Conditions, 
regardless of the legal basis  on which they are made, in 
particular compensation for damages that have not occurred 
on the deliverable itself, such as loss of production, loss of use, 
all claims for compensation that are not expressly specified , 
reduction in price, cancellation of the  contract or withdrawal 
from the contract are excluded . Customer’s rights to 
compensation for losses not incurred by the deliverable itself, 
such as loss of production, loss of use, loss of orders, lost 
profits, or other direct or indirect losses shall onl y apply if this 
has been expressly agreed in writing and is limited, at any rate, 
to a maximum of one million Swiss francs. This limitation of 
liability does not apply in case of gross negligence or wrongful 
intent or where precluded by mandatory law.  
14. Comp liance with Export Control Regulations  
14.1 Siemens Energy shall not be obligated to fulfill this agreement 
if such fulfillment is prevented by any impediments arising out 
of national or international foreign trade or customs 
requirements or any embargoes or ot her sanctions . 
14.2 If Custom er transfers goods (hardware and/ or software and/ or 
technology as well as corresponding documentation, 
regardless of the mode of provision) delivered by Siemens 
Energy or works and services (including all kinds of technical 
suppor t) performed by Siemens Energy to a third party 
worldwide, Customer  shall comply with all applicable national 
and international (re -) export control regulations. In any event 
Custome r shall comply with the (re -) export control regulations 
of Switzerland , Germany,  of the European Union and of the 
United States of America.  
14.3 If required to conduct export control checks, Custome r, upon 
request by Siemens Energy, shall promptly provide Siemens 
Energy with all information pertaining to particular end 
customer, des tination and intended use of goods, works and 
services provided by Siemens Energy, as well as any export 
control restrictions existing.  
14.4 Custom er shall indemnify and hold harmless Siemens Energy 
from and against any claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, co st 
and damages arising out of or relating to any noncompliance 
with export control regulations by Custom er, and Custom er 
shall compensate Siemens Energy for all losses and expenses 
resulting thereof, unless such noncompliance was not caused 
by fault of the  Customer . This provision does not imply a 
change in burden of proof.  
15. Confidentiality and Data Protection  
15.1 Siemens Energy  and Customer shall undertake to treat 
confidentially all documents, information, tools and software 
received in connection with this Ag reement and not publicly 
available, as their own trade secrets, even after the termination 
of the Agreement, and to refrain from distributing them 
unnecessarily within their respective companies and from 
making them available either in whole or in part to third parties, 
except subcontractors.  
If, in the course of its work on the deliverable and 
documentation, Siemens Energy  processes personal data, 
Siemens Energy  shall comply with Customer’s instructions and 
the relevant data protection laws. Siemens Energ y shall take 
appropriate measures to safeguard such data against 
unauthorised access by third parties.  
15.2 Customer acknowledges that the data, information and 
documents concerning Customer may be stored inside or 
outside Switzerland. They may be disclosed to Siemens 
Energy  and to its affiliates for purposes of fulfilling the 
Agreement.  
15.3 Where Siemens Energy ’s performance of the services requires 
remote access to personal data, Customer shall be informed 
and requested to approve such access. Siemens Energy ’s 
access to personal data shall only be undertaken after 
Customer has granted its approval. Until such t ime as the 
approval is given, Siemens Energy ’s obligation to perform the 
contract shall be suspended, without this entailing any claim to 
compensation on the part of Customer.  
15.4 Siemens Energy  may only use information to which it becomes 
privy in the course  of performing the contract purposes of 
performing the contract, and, only in anonymised form, in order 
to undertake further development of its products.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
General Delivery Conditions of Siemens Energy for Customer -specific Systems (Version 04.2021)  
 
© Siemens Energy  2021 Page 4 of 4 
 
 
16. Rights to the Deliverable and Documentation  
16.1 All hardware pertaining to the deliverable and the design 
thereof, as well as all associated software and documentation, 
are the intellectual property of Siemens Energy  or the relevant 
subcontractors or sub -suppliers, as the case may be, 
regardless of thei r protectability.  
16.2 Customer receives the right to utilise the deliverable, including 
the software created for Customer under this Agreement, as 
well as the associated documentation, in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement.  
17. Third -party Proprietar y Rights and Claims  
17.1 Siemens Energy  shall take the steps it deems feasible and 
reasonable to ensure that the deliverable, insofar as it is 
identifiable to Siemens Energy , does not infringe on any 
proprietary rights of third parties.  
17.2 If a third party asserts  legitimate claims based on proprietary 
rights (patents, etc.) in respect of the deliverable, Siemens 
Energy  shall, at its own option and expense,  
- obtain a right of use from the party authorised to make 
dispositions as regards the affected proprietary righ t, or 
- alter the infringing parts, or  
- exchange the infringing parts for parts that are free of 
proprietary rights, or  
- take back the deliverable in exchange for a refund of the 
purchase price,  
all other claims being hereby excluded.  
Claims shall only be dee med legitimate if they have been 
acknowledged by Siemens Energy  or awarded by a final court 
decision.  
17.3 Customer is required to inform Siemens Energy  immediately if 
a third party asserts claims against Siemens Energy  on any 
legal basis whatsoever. Customer m ay not acknowledge such 
claims of its own accord.  
17.4 Customer shall support Siemens Energy  in defending against 
such claims and handling the dispute with the third party, in 
particular, in a lawsuit. In this respect, Customer shall only take 
action based on w ritten instructions of Siemens Energy . 
Siemens Energy  shall reimburse to Customer documented 
expenses incurred through the provision of such support.  
18. Consequences of Termination of the Agreement  
After the termination of the Agreement, the rights and duties 
specified in para. 14 and para. 15 shall continue to apply 
consistently to all results obtained in connection with the 
Agreement during the term of the same.  
19. Governing Law  
The contractual relationship shall be governed by the 
substantive laws of Switzerland. The UN Convention on 
Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (UN CISG) of 11 
April 1980 shall not apply to this contractual relationship.  
20. Venue  
The venue for both Customer and Siemens Energy  is Zurich.  
However, Siemens Energy  also has t he right to take legal 
action against Customer at the domicile of the latter.  