             
Page 1 of 6 
                      Unrestricted  
 
Conditions  of Purchase   
for Se rvices through Exte rnal Provide rs 
Status : September  24, 2024   
 
These present Conditions of Purchase  for Services through External 
Providers (hereinafter called “ Conditions of Purchase ”) have been 
concluded and executed between Siemens Enerji Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. 
(hereinafter called “ Siemens Enerji ” and/or “ Customer ”) and selling 
company  (hereinafter called  “ Supplier ”) and constitute  general terms and 
conditions of the  Contract (hereinafter  called “ Contract ”) which 
includes  arrangements and regulations related to goods and services 
(hereinafter  called “Services ” and/or  “Work )  to  be  delivered  to  Siemens  
Enerji.   
 
Customer  and Supplier will be referred in singular form as “Party” and 
together as “Parties” respectively.   
 
1. Scope of Work, Order  and Confirmation of Order   
1.1   Scope of Work will be specified by a written agreement to be concluded 
and executed by the concerned Parties, which will include mutual terms 
and conditions. In case that such a Contract does not exist at the 
moment of placing purchase order, purchase orde r including order of 
Customer and confirmed by stamp and authorized signatures of the 
Supplier will substitute in place of Contract. All kinds of liabilities and 
responsibilities in respect with stamp, stamp tax, charges and outlays 
required to be containe d as per tax laws of purchase orders to be 
substituted in place of Contract will be on account of the Supplier.    
1.2  Any alterations, amendments or additions  to the order shal l only be- 
come a part of the contract if the Customer accepts such in writing. In  
particular, the Customer is bound by the general terms and condit ions of 
the Supplier  only to the extent tha t such  are in accordance  with these  
Cond itions of P urchase or  if the Customer agrees to such in writ ing. The 
acceptance of deliveries or services as well as payments does not  
constitute such agreement.  If purchase order has not been confirmed by 
the Supplier within 3 days as from delivery date of purchase order, then 
the Customer will have the right to withdraw its purchase order without 
any need to give any notice and legal actions. As long as Purchase order 
is not confirmed in written form by the Supplier, provisional on final 
acceptance of deliveries to be made by the Customer would not mean 
that Work being subject to purchase order conti nues.    
1.3  Any provisions in other documents provided by the Supplier (such as  but 
not limited to specifications, data sheets, technical documentation,  
advertising materials,  order confirmation and/or shipping documents)  
regardin g legal terms, liability, restriction of use, restriction of application 
and/or restriction of suitabil ity, or any other provision that changes  the 
provisions of these Conditions of Purchase shall not be appl icable.   
1.4 Unless otherwise stipulated in writing or confirmed purchase order, the 
Customer will be able to increase or decrease scope of 
Purchase/Products/Work in ratio of 10% without obtaining written 
approval or Consent of the Supplier.  
1.5 Unless otherwise stipulated in Contract to be concluded and executed by 
the concerned parties or in confirmed purchase order, The Supplier 
accepts and agrees with Work undertaken by it will be in compliance with 
VDE, DIN and the TSE Standards (Turkish Standards Institute), norms 
and regulations being in force and effect as well as (if exists) environment 
specifications of the Customer.    
 
2. Performance of Ser vices, Employment of Staff   
2.1  The Supplier shall perform  the services with the greatest  care and state-  
of-the-art of sc ience and technology, in order to enab le the best poss ible 
result  to be achieved.  The Supplier  shall incorporate  the Customer’s  
specif ications  and inform  the Customer  promptly  if in its opinion  chan ges 
to the serv ices which wou ld resu lt in improvements are poss ible. In such 
a case, sections 4.3 and 4.4 shall apply.   
2.2  The Supplier  shall maintain a  quality management  system  (e.g., accord -  
ing to DIN EN ISO 9001).   
2.3  The Supplier shall perform the services itself or using its own employ -  
ees. Orders or parts thereof may not be ass igned or subcontracted to  
third parties without the prior written consent of the Customer.  If the  
Suppl ier fai ls to obtain such consent, the Customer shall be entitled to  
withdraw from the contract in full or in part and to demand compensation 
for damages. The Customer is not authorized to issue any labor - related 
or discip linary instructions towards the Suppl ier and its employ ees. The 
Supplier shal l produce the required employment permits for  any foreign  
employees at the request of the Customer.   2.4  For the provision of work and services, the Suppl ier shall only 
use em ployees who are not listed in the relevant Turkish, 
German, European and US - American sanctions l ists based on 
foreign trade legislation. These lists  include, but are not l imited 
to, the US Denied Persons List (DPL), the  US Unverified  List, 
the US Entity List, the US Specially Designated Nationals  List, 
the US Specially  Designated  Terrorists  List, the US Foreign  
Terrorist Organizations List, the US Specially Designated 
Global Terrorists List and the EU's Terrorist List.   
2.5  The Suppl ier shall be free to organize and arrange its work 
schedule.  The Supplier  may only perform  the services at the 
Customer’s  prem ises where this is essential for the proper 
fulfillment of the order and has  been  agreed  in writing  
beforehand.  In this case  the Customer  shall  grant the 
Suppl ier access to the appropriate premises.   
2.6  The Supplier has the sole responsibility for compl iance with all 
legal,  regulatory  and professional  requirements  with respect  to 
its employees.  The Suppl ier shall  in particular  fulfill the statutory  
wage  requirements  as well as the wage requirements from all 
applicable collective bargaining  agreem ents, me et its 
obligat ions to pay taxes and social contribut ions,  meet all legal 
and industria l law requirements as wel l as occupational  
requirements and shall only  use employees which  have the 
required  residence  and working permits  and have  proper 
socia l secur ity and acc ident insurance. In case of involveme nt 
of third parties and/or the involvement of further th ird parties by 
third parties,  the Suppl ier equal ly ensures  the compliance  with 
these  require ments. Upon request, the Supplier will also 
provide the Customer with  respective  written  proof  of 
comp liance  with these  obligat ions by the third parties.   
2.7  The Supplier  shall  indemnify  and hold harmless  the Customer  
from and against  any claims based  on the infringement of  
obligations  pursuant  to this section 2 by the Supplier or third 
parties. Further rights of the Cus tomer shall rema in unaffected. 
In particular, an  infringement of an obli gation pursuant to th is 
section 2 ent itles the Customer to term inate the  contract for 
material breach.   
3. Software Related Services   
 Should the S upplier develop or convert software for the 
Customer,  
3.1  the Supplier shall provide to the Customer all related 
documentation, the source and object code;  
3.2  at the Customer’s request, the Supplier shall provide support 
in the implementation of the application of the 
developed/converted software and shall maintain it. Insofar as 
such support and maintenance services do not fall under the 
agreed scope of th e contract, the Customer and the Supplier 
shall agree on reasonable remuneration;  
3.3  the Supplier shall comply with safe, state -of-the-art software 
development methods including secure coding standards, 
such as,  e.g. OWASP standards;  
3.4  the Customer has the right to yearly audit or have audited the 
Supplier’s compliance with the provisions of this section 3 and 
section 22 at the Supplier’s relevant site(s) without cause and, 
in addition, if the Customer has a justified suspicion that the 
Supplier is not in full compliance with those provisions, in each 
case upon reasonable prior notice.  
4. Change Requests; Additional Expenses   
4.1  The Customer may amend the requirements for the services 
and other contractual conditions according to the following 
Change Request process.  
4.2  The Customer will notify the Supplier in writing or by e -mail of 
the requested change (“Change Request”) , except for an 
increase or decrease scope of Purchase/Products/Work in 
ratio of 10%  (see section 1.4 ).  
4.3  The Supplier shall no later than seven working days after 
receiving the Change Request notify the Customer in writing 
or by e -mail, as to whether and how the Change Request will 
affect the agreed schedule, the remuneration and/or other 
contractual conditio ns and submit an offer for the 
implementation of the change request. If the implementation of 
the Change Request results in changes to the remuneration or 
the time schedule, such changes shall be calculated on the  
basis of the original calculation base. Th e Supplier is not 
obliged to submit an offer, if an implementation of the Change 
Request is unreasonably to be expected from the Supplier.  
4.4  If the Customer accepts the offer, the Change request shall 
form part of the contract and the contract  shall be amended  
and/or  supplemented through the agreed Change Request e.g. 
             
Page 2 of 6 
                      Unrestricted  
with regard to the services to be performed, the schedule and the 
remuneration.  
4.5 If in the Supplier’s opinion the Customer’s requirements or other 
circumstances attributable to the Customer are leading to increased time 
and material expenses and/or are affecting the agreed deadlines and/or 
the remuneration or if the Supplier considers changes to the services 
necessary or useful, the Supplier shall indicate this to the Customer 
promptly in writing or by e -mail. In such a case section 4.3  and 4.4 shall 
apply, except that the offer must be submitted together with the 
notification.  
4.6  Additional expenses shall be reimbursed and any additional remunera - 
tion shall be paid only if such  reimbursement  or payment  has been 
agreed expressly in writ ing in accordance with section 4.4. With regard  to 
delivery  dates,  the Supplier can only rely on a hindrance if timely and 
proper notification has been made according to section 4.5.  
 
5. Duty to Inform  
 Unless expressly agreed otherwise, the Supplier shall keep the Customer 
informed about the progress of the services carried out on behalf of the 
Customer. Upon the Customer`s request, the Supplier shall allow the 
Customer access to the documentation of the  work and services.  
 
6. Cooperation between the Contracting Partners  
6.1  Each contracting partner shall provide the other with the name of a com -  
 petent contact person who is responsible for obtaining decisions relating  
to the performance of the services.  
6.2  The Customer shall provide the Supplier’s contact person in the agreed 
data format, with all texts, documents, information and data available to 
the Customer which the Customer considers necessary for the provision 
of the services, where these are not othe rwise available to the Sup - plier. 
If the Supplier does not consider the information to be sufficient, it shall 
advise the Customer to this effect immediately.  
6.3  If it has been agreed that the Supplier is to design training material for 
provision of the services, approval of this material must be obtained from 
the Customer prior to use.  
6.4  The Supplier may only promote, offer, use or sell the results of the ser - 
vices (see section 13.1) with the explicit written permission of the Cus - 
tomer.  
 
7. Acceptance of Work Services (Werkleistungen) and Liability for  
 Defects  
7.1  Work services (Werkleistungen) shall be subject to acceptance testing  
once they have been completed by the Supplier. Following completion of 
acceptance testing, the Customer shall declare acceptance of the work 
services in writing or in other appropriate form provided the relevant work 
services are free from defects. There shall be no acce ptance in case of 
substantial defects.   
7.2  If services performed by the Suppl ier turn out to be defective, the Sup - 
plier shall at the Customer’s d iscretion e ither remedy these def ects or  
perform the services again without defects, within a reasonable period  
and at the Suppl ier’s own cost.  If the Suppl ier fails to remedy  the defects  or 
perform  the services  again  without  defects  despite  being  given  a rea- 
sona ble time limit, the Customer may withdraw from the  contract or re - 
duce the remunerat ion by a reasonab le amou nt or remedy the defect  or 
have it remedied at the Supplier’s cost and demand compensation  for 
damages in lie u of performance.   
7.3  The warranty peri od for mat erial deficiencies is three years, insofar as   
no statutory prov isions prov ide longer periods.   
7.4  The warranty period for deficiencies in title is five years, insofar as no   
statutory provisions provide longer periods.   
7.5  Further or other c laims and rights rema in unaffected.    
8. Travel Costs   
8.1  Travel and accommodation costs shal l be reimbursed to the Supplier if  
the Custom er has g iven its prior consent in writ ing or by E -mail to pay  the 
travel  costs  of the Supplier or its employees.  In such  cases,  the (net)  travel  
and accommodation  costs  shall be reimbursed  only upon  presen tation of 
copies of the re levant receipts, show ing the input tax amounts  contained 
therein (with the except ion of lump sums and mileage) and  after 
deduction of possib le input tax amounts, as fol lows:   
 Rail 2nd class Air  Economy class Kilometer Allowance  In accordance 
with tax authority guidelines Lump sum overnight  In accordance with tax 
authority guidelines accommodation  or by arrangement with the project 
manager/coordinator, on presentation of copies of relevant receipts 
including higher overnight  accommodation costs  
8.2  Prior  to commencing  any travel,  the Supplier  shall agree  the detai ls with 
the Custom er (such as, for examp le, work location, dates, se lection of  
hotel category and class of car if using a hired vehicle or private car   
instead of trave ling by rai l or air), whereby the most su itable and cost - 
effective form of transport wi ll be chosen, taking into account the urgency 
of the matter. Travelling t ime wi ll not b e reimbursed.    
9. Remuneration   
As remunerat ion for the serv ices and the rights of use granted 
to the  Custom er under section 13 be low, the Customer shall 
pay the agreed  amount to the Supplier fol lowing correct and 
timely performance of the  services.  
10.  Invoices   
10.1  Any agreed additional costs (travel and accommodation costs) 
and ap plicable V AT (where the services are subject to VAT 
legislation) shall  be listed separately in the relevant invoice. The 
due taxation of all pay ments for income -tax purposes and any 
VAT payments is the respon sibility of the Supplier.  Insofar  as 
the services performed  by the Supplier are subject to V AT and 
have bee n properly invoiced by the S upplier, the Custom er is 
prepared to pay the VAT due on the agreed remunerat ion. If 
the reverse -charge process is used for the serv ices performed  
by the Supplier, the latter shall present the invoice without 
setting out  VAT and refer to this fact by adding  “Tax liability  of 
the service  recipient   
/ Reverse Charge” to t he invoice.   
10.2  The order codes and numbers for each individual item shal l be 
shown  on the  invoices. Invoices are not payab le if these  
details are not in cluded. Duplicate invoices shall be marked as 
such. If hourly remuner ation is  agreed, the relevant time sheets 
countersigned  by the Customer shall be attached to the 
invoice.   
11.  Payment   
11.1  Unless otherwise agreed, payments shall be due and payable 
no later than 60 (sixty) days net. If payment is made within 30 
(thirty ) days, the Customer is entitled to a 3 % (three percent) 
discount. The period for payment shall commence as soon as 
any delivery or service is completed and a correctly issued 
invoice is received.     
New taxes, duties and similar expenses to be imposed by the 
State related to service/w ork being subject of Contract will 
never be reflected by the Supplier to prices whatsoever 
reasons including any changes arising from Law, Regulation 
and any other legislation during validity period of the Contract.    
Price increases  arising from a change in scope of   
service/w ork will be only possible by obtaining written consent 
and approval of the Customer following written notification on 
this subject of the Supplier is given to the Customer.    
The Supplier cannot stop and delay its shipments, due to 
reason of delay of the Customer approval or refusal related to 
price increase. In case of making rebate in cost inputs the 
Supplier accepts and approves to reflect such rebate in same 
rate to its pri ces.    
For purchases in respect with “ Services/ Works” to be 
performed by the Supplier, the Supplier is obligated to pay 
contribution premiums of Social Security Institution of its 
workers.    
11.2  Insofar as the Supplier is required to provide material testing, 
test records or qua lity contro l documents  or any  other 
document ation, such  shall be a part of the requ irements of the 
completeness of the de livery or performance. A discount shall 
also be allowed if the Customer sets  off or withholds  any 
payments  to a reasonab le extent  on accoun t of any deficiency.  
11.3  Payment  does  not constitute  an acknowledgement  that the 
correspond ing delivery or serv ices were prov ided in 
accordance with the  contract.   
12.  Delay   
12.1  Decisive  for the timely  performance  of the services  is 
whether  the agreed dead lines for performance have been met 
or, where the serv ices are subject  to acceptance  testing,  on the 
successfu l and comp lete acceptance testing of the services by 
the Customer.   
12.2  If a delay in performance  of the services or parts  thereof  or in 
their supplementary performance becomes foreseeab le, the 
Customer shall be  notified to this effect immediately and its  
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
Page 3 of 6 
                      Unrestricted  
decision shal l be obtained.   
12.3  If the Supplier falls behind schedule with the performance of the 
services, the Customer may charge a penalty. In case it exceeds the 
delivery date by 2 calendar days, a fine for delay will be imposed upon 
the total cost of order by 0.5%  in respect of each commenced working 
day and to be  deducted from the payment due to the SELLER provided 
its total does not exceed 15 % of the cost of order. However, in the case 
of a delay in the ordered good if the issued  delay penalty from the end 
customer to SIEMENS ENERJ İ exceed 15% of the cost of  order the 
(%15) limit hereby won’t be applied. For the delay exceeding 10 calendar 
days  in total the right of cancelling the order related.  
12.4  If the delay concerns a binding  intermediary deadline (contractual dead - 
line), the basis for the calculation of the penalty  shall be the services 
which were to be performed until the end of the intermediary deadline. 
Penalties for exceeding intermediary deadlines  shall be deducted from 
the penalty for exceeding the final completion date.  
12.5  If there is a delay with regard to a specific, fixed date (Fixtermin), the 
Customer is entitled to demand a penalty of 15 % ( fifteen  percent) of the 
respective order amount for this specific date and/or to withdraw from 
the contract.  
12.6  The penalty does not release the Supplier from its delivery and service 
obligations. The penalty may still be claimed if the reservation of rights 
is made no later than the date of final payment.  
12.7  Further or other claims and rights remain unaffected.    
13.  Rights of Use  
13.1  The Customer shall, whenever created, own all rights, title and interest  
in the results of the services (hereinafter called “results”) regardless of 
the stage of development reached. The Supplier shall keep the results 
for the Customer safe until they are handed over. To the extent the re - 
sults are protected by copyright or ot her, non -transferable rights and the 
Customer cannot – because of the existence of these rights – be- come 
owner of the results, the Supplier grants to the Customer the exclusive, 
worldwide, transferable, sublicensable and unrestricted right, to modify, 
to have modified, to use, to have used, to publish, to have pub -  
lished, to distribute, to have distributed, to utilize or to have utilized the 
results in their original form and as extended or modified by the Cus - 
tomer.   
13.2  If and to the extent the Customer and /or a th ird party, that has a con - 
tractual relationship with the Customer, requires the Supplier’s meth - 
ods, processes, man agement too ls, concepts, ideas and other know - 
how, that the S upplier has devel oped, created or gen erated before or   
in course of  the performance of serv ices (“Background Know-How”), in  
order to make use of the results, the Supp lier sha ll grant the Customer  a 
perpetua l, unrestricted, wor ldwide, roya lty free, non -exclusive, subli - 
censab le, and transferab le right to use or have used such Background  
Know-How.   
 
 
 
 
  
 
13.3  If the results contain inventions, ideas or designs which are 
patentable  or otherwise eligible for registration, the Customer 
is entitled, at its dis cretion and in its own name, to apply for 
such property rights in any  countries, to maintain these rights 
or to abandon them at any time. If  necessary the Supp lier shall 
assist the Customer with the appl ication;  the Supp lier shall  
refrain  from any activity  that m ay impede  the applica -  
tion and eff icient explo itation of the rights by the Customer. 
The property rights incurred as a resu lt of such appl ications 
belong to the Customer.  
13.4  The S upplier hereby waives its righ t to authorship cred it with 
respect to  the results, unless otherwise agreed in the 
individual case.   
13.5  The S upplier undertakes to ensure that the invent ions or ideas 
arising  in the course of the performance of the serv ices are 
transferred to the  Custom er free of further charge or further 
cost.   
13.6  In contracts with its employees, freelancers or third parties, 
involved in  the provision of the services in accordance with 
section 2.3 working on  the services,  the Suppl ier shall at all 
times  assure  that any and all rights  as describe d in sections 
13.1 and 13.2 are enjoyed by the Customer  exclusive ly, 
worldwide and witho ut any time l imit, or other restriction,  and 
also that they are not affected in any way by a term ination of 
the contract betwe en the Supplier and its emp loyees, 
freelancers or th ird parties. Such provisions shall survive and 
be valid after termination of  the contract between the Suppl ier 
and its employees, freelancers or  third parties. Otherwise, the 
Supplier shall compensate the Customer  for al l resulting 
damages and expenditure including but not lim ited to  
reasonable costs of legal defense and  shall indemnify and 
hold harm - less the Customer to this extent against third -party 
claims, unless the  Suppl ier is not liable for such damage, 
costs or cla ims. 
14.  Open -Source  Software   
14.1  The Supplier shall inform the Customer – at the latest at the 
time the  order is conf irmed – whether the products an d 
services to be de livered  contain open -source  components.  In 
the context of this provision “ open -source  components” 
means any  software, hardware or other information that is 
provided royalty -free by  the respective licensor to any user on 
the basis of a license with the  right to modify and/or to 
distribute (e.g. GNU General Publ ic License  (GPL), the GNU 
Lesser GP L (LGPL), or the MIT L icense). S hould the  products 
and serv ices de livered by the Supplier conta in open -source  
components, the Supplier shal l comply with all applicable 
open -source  license terms and sha ll grant a ll those rights to 
the Custom er and provide all information  which  the 
Customer  needs  in order  to comply  
 
             
Page 4 of 6 
                      Unrestricted  
 himself with the applicable license terms. In particular, the Supplier must 
deliver to the Customer promptly after the order is confirmed the  
following:  
− a schedule of all open -source  components used, indicating  the 
relevant license, its vers ion and including a copy of the  
comp lete text of such  license and includ ing a reference  to 
copyright  and/or  authorship.  Such  schedule  must  have  an un- 
derstandable structure and contain a table of contents;   
− the complete source code of the re levant ope n source soft - 
ware, including scripts and information regarding its generat -  
ing environment  insofar  as the applicable  open  source  cond i- 
tions require this.   
14.2  The Supplier shall, by the time of order confirmation at the latest, inform 
the Customer in writing whether any open -source  licenses used by the 
Supplier might be subject to a Copyleft Effect which could affect the 
products of the Customer. In the context of this provision, “Copyleft Ef - 
fect“means  that the provisions of the open source license require that 
certain of the Supplier’s products, as well as any products derived from 
such products, may only be redistributed in accordance with the terms of 
the op en source license, e.g. only if the source code is disclosed. In case 
any open -source  licenses used by the Supplier are subject to a “Copyleft 
Effect” as defined above, then the Customer is entitled to can - cel the 
order within two weeks of receipt of this information.  
  
15.  Provision of Material, Information   
15.1  Material and informat ion provided  by the Customer  or made  for the Cus-  
tomer rema in the property  of the Customer  and are to be stored,  labeled as 
property of the Custom er and adm inistered separate ly and free of  charge. 
Their use is  limited to the orders of the Customer only.  The Suppl ier shall 
supply replacements in the event of reduction of value or  loss, for which 
the Supplier is responsible, even in the event of simple  negligence. This 
also applies to the transfer of al located material.   
15.2  Any process ing or transformation  of the materia l shall  take place for the 
Customer. The Customer shal l immediately become owner of the new  or 
transformed  product.  Should  this be impossible  for legal  reasons,  the 
Custom er and the Supplier  hereby  agree  that the Custom er shall  be the 
owner of t he new product at a ll times during t he process ing or transfor - 
mation. The Supplier shal l keep the new product safe for the Customer  at 
no extra  cost and in so doing  exercise  the duty of care of a merchant.   
16.       Release of Documents  
The Supplier shall release all documents and other tools, including copies 
thereof, that it has received or produced in connection with the or - der, 
immediately after acceptance testing or handing -over of the results or, if 
acceptance testing or handing -over is not possible because of the type 
of results, after execution of the services.  
17.  Confidentiality, Data Protection   
17.1  The Supplier  shall treat as confidential  the knowledge  and findings,  doc-  
uments, terms of reference, busin ess processes or other informat ion that 
it receives from or about the Customer in the context of performing  the 
services, as we ll as the conclusio n of the contract and any resu lts, with 
regard to third parties other than those involved in the provision of  the 
services in accordance wi th section  2.3 – and shall keep the same  
confidential beyond  the term of the contract – for as long  as and insofar  as 
such in formation has not become publicly known by legal means or the 
Customer  has not consented  in writing  to its transfer  in the individual  case.  
The Supplier  shall make  confidential  information  available  only to those 
employees who need the information for the fulfillment of their  duties and 
shall ensure th at such employees are also subject to a duty to treat such 
information as confidential. The Supplier shall use this in - format ion 
exclusive ly for the purpose of performing t he serv ices.  
17.2  Insofar  as the Supplier is granted  access  to persona l data in the course  of 
provid ing the services, the Supp lier shal l comply with the statutory  
provisions relating to protection of personal data and data privacy and  
shall enable the Customer to keep itself informed that such provisions  are 
being compl ied w ith. The S upplier shall ensure that personne l (including 
employees and freelance workers) who are involved with the  processing 
of personal data committed themselves to confidential ity.  
17.3  Insofar as the S upplier performs serv ices at the prem ises of the Cus - 
tomer or has access  to the Custom er’s IT systems,  the policy  “Rules  for 
Business  Partners  of Siemens  Energy”  shall also apply  which  will in this 
case  be prov ided to the S upplier. The S upplier’s access t o the Cus - 
tomer’s IT systems requ ires the expl icit prior consent of the Customer  
who wil l decide ab out the concrete type of access an d is subject to the 
Supplier`s accept ance of the applicable  rules  for the access  of third par-  
ties.  
17.4  The S upplier shall impose an ob ligation that corresponds to th is sec tion 
17 upon those third parties that it involves in the provision of the  services 
in compl iance with section 2.3.   
18.  Assignment of Claims   Any assignment of any claim is only allowed with the prior 
written approval of the Customer.  
 
19.  Cancellation, Right of Termination; Consequences of 
Termination  
19.1  The Customer is entitled to cancel an order which entails the 
performance of training services in whole or in part until 14 
(fourteen) days before the scheduled training date without 
incurring any costs. If cancellation takes place at a later date, 
the Supplier is entitled to a reimbursement of the costs 
incurred because of such cancellation, limited in any case to 
the order amount of the respective cancel led service.   
19.2  The Customer is  entitled  to terminate  the contract  by giving 
four weeks’  notice to the end of a calendar month.   
19.3  If the contract is term inated premature ly accordi ng to section 
19.2, the  Customer shal l pay for the services performed to the 
point at which the  contract was terminated and the additional 
costs incurred directly and  verifiably as  a resu lt of such  
termination. The Customer sha ll not be   
liable for any additional  claims  of the Supplier  for fulfillment  or 
damages  due to such termination.   
19.4  The righ t to terminat e the contract for cause rema ins 
unaffected by the  forego ing. In particular, the Custom er may 
terminate the contract  for cause  in case  (a) the Supplier  is in 
delay  with its delivery or service  and such de lay – despite a 
correspond ing rem inder by the Custom er - per- sists for more 
than two weeks aft er rece ipt of such rem inder or in case  (b) 
the Supplier violates laws being in force and effect, (c) the 
Supplier acts  against  terms  and  conditions of the Contract, 
or (d)  adherence to the contract by the Custom er cannot 
reasonab ly be expected from th e Customer because of a 
reason attr ibutable to the Suppl ier and taking into 
consideration the circumstances of the case  and both parties 
interests. This might, in particular, apply in case of an  actual 
or possib le deterioration of the Suppl ier`s financial situation 
thus  threatening the due fulfillment of the Suppl ier´s 
obligations under the  contract.   
19.5  The Customer may a lso terminate the contract in case s of 
change in partnership  structure or governing rights, 
bankruptcy, insolvency  proceedi ngs or sim ilar proceedings in 
relation to the assets of the Supp lier are applie d for or 
commenced.   
19.6  In case of a termination by the Customer, the Customer may 
use the  equipment available for the further provision of 
services, or se rvices al - ready provided by the Supplier, 
against reasonable remuneration.   
20.  Code of Conduct for Supplie rs, Security in the Supply 
Chain   
20.1  The Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the 
applicable legal  system( s). In particu lar, the Supplier wi ll not 
engage, actively or passively, nor directly or ind irectly in any 
form of bribery, in any vio lation of  basic human rights of 
employees or any child labor and  the Supplier shall comply 
with the regulations of the Siemens Energy Code of Conduct 
and address these expectations to its own suppliers along its 
supply chain.  Moreover, the S upplier will take responsibility  
for the health  and safety  of its  empl oyees  and shall fulfill the 
applicable minimum wage requirements. By acting in 
accordance with the  applicable  environmental  laws,  the 
Supplier  shall take  adequate  measures to avoid the 
deployment  of so -called confl ict minerals  and shall create 
transparency over the  origin of raw materi als. The Supplier 
shall provide a protected grievance mechanism for its own 
employees  to report possib le violations of this Code of 
Conduct and wil l take reasonable measures to make its suppliers 
comply with the principles of this Code of Conduct and to verify 
this on a risk basis . Supplier shal l be obliged to duly  document 
its compliance with the Code of Conduct. Customer and its  
representat ives or a third party  appo inted by the Custom er and  
reason ably acceptable  to Supplier  shall be entitled  (but not 
obliged)  to conduct   
– also at Supplier’s premises – inspections in order to verify 
Suppl ier’s comp liance with the contractual ob ligations, in 
particular with the Code  of Conduct. Any  such inspection  may 
only be cond ucted in accordance  with the applicable data 
protection law and shall neither unreasonably  interfere with 
Suppliers' business activities nor violate any of Suppl iers' 
confidential ity agreements with third parties. Suppl ier shall 
reasonably  cooperate  in any inspection  to be conducted.  
Suppl ier shall immediately  initiate any remedial actions  if it 
detects any vio lation of the Code of  Conduct by itself or its  
subcontractors and/or and those third  parties  engaged in the 
course of  provision of the services according to section 2.3  
above  and shall promptly  inform  Customer  of any such  
violation  and the remed ial action  if and to the extent  such  
breach  affects  the contract.   
20.2  The Supplier  shall provide the necessary  organ izational 
             
Page 5 of 6 
                      Unrestricted  
instructions  and take measures, particu larly with regard to the follow ing 
secur ity: prem ises secur ity, packag ing and transport, business partner, 
personnel and information - in order to guarantee the security in the 
supply  chain accordi ng to the requirements  of respective i nternat ionally  
recog nized  initiatives  based  on the WCO  SAFE Framework  of 
Standards  (e. g.  AEO, C-TPAT).  The Supplier  shall protect  the goods  and 
services  provided to the Customer or provided to third parties designated 
by the  Customer  against  unauthorized  access  and manipulation.  The 
Supplier  shall only deploy  reliable personnel  and shall obligate  any sub-
suppliers  to take equivalent measures and to obl igate also their 
subcontractors  accordi ngly. 
20.3  In add ition to other rights and remed ies the Custom er may have, the  
Custom er may terminate  the contract  in case  of breach   of  the 
obligations und er section 20 by the Supp lier. However, prov ided that  
Supplier’s breach  of contract  is capa ble of remedy,  the Custom er’s right 
to terminate is subject to the prov iso that such breach has not been  
remed ied by the Supplier with in a reasonab le grace per iod set by the  
Customer.   
21.  Product Conformity, P roduct Related Environmental Protection   
including Substance De claration, Dangerous Goods, Occupational 
Health and Safety   
21.1  Should the Supplier  deliver products,  to which product -related statutory  
and legal requirements apply in view of their placing on the market and  
further marketing in the European Economic  Area , marketing in Türkiye  
or to which correspon ding requ irements app ly regarding oth er coun tries 
notified by the  Customer  to the Supplier,  then the Supplier  must ensure  
compl iance  of the products  with these  requirements  at the time of transfer  
of risk. Unless agreed otherwise in writing, the Supplier shall provide the 
Customer the following documents in the Turkish language; (i) the instructions 
on assembly, use, maintenance and safety of the product, (ii) information to be 
given to end users for them to  be protected from the risks that the product may 
carry, and (iii) environment, health and safety rules regarding the product. Fur- 
thermore, th e Supplier must ensure that all documents and informat ion 
which are necessary to provide the proof of conformity of products with  the 
respective requirements can be furnished immediately to the Custom er 
upon request.   
21.2  Should the Supplier deliver products, substances of wh ich are set out  in 
the “List  of Declarable  Substances” ( www.bomcheck.net /suppliers/  
restricted -and-declarable -substances -list) appl icable at the time of the  
order or wh ich are subject to statu torily-imposed substance restrictions  
and/ or information requirements (e. g. RE ACH, RoHS), the Supplier  shall 
declare such substances and prov ide information as requested in the web 
database BOMcheck ( www.BOMcheck.net )  no later than the  date of first 
delivery of  products. With respect to statutori ly imposed  substance 
restrictions the foregoing shal l only apply to laws which are  applicab le at 
the registered seat of the Supp lier or the Custom er or at  the designat ed 
place of de livery requested by the Customer.   
21.3  Should the delivery contain goods which – according to international  
regulations  – are classified  as dangerous  goods,  the Suppl ier will inform  
the Customer hereof in a form agreed upon between the Supplier and  the 
Customer, but in no case later than the date of order confirmation.   
21.4  The Supplier is obliged to comply with all legal requirements regarding  the 
health and safety  of the personn el employed  by the Supplier.  It must  
ensure that the health and safety of its  personnel as well as indirect  
subcontractors em ployed to p erform the deliver ies and serv ices is pro - 
tected.  
22.  Cybers ecurity   
22.1  The Supplier  shall  take appropriate  organizational  and technical   
measures to ensure the confidential ity, authenticity, integrity and avail - 
ability of Supplier Operations as well as products and services. These  
measures shall be consistent with good industry pract ice and sha ll in- 
clude  an appropriate  information  security  management  system  con- 
sistent with standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the ex - 
tent appl icable).   
22.2  “Supplier Operat ions” means a ll assets,  processes  and systems (in - 
cluding informat ion systems), dat a (including Customer dat a), person - 
nel, and s ites, used or processed by the S upplier from t ime to t ime in the 
performance of this contract.   
22.3  Should products or services contain software, firmware, or chipsets:   
22.3.1 the Supplier shall  implement  appropriate  standards,  processes  and  
methods  to prevent,  identify,  evaluate  and repair  any vulnerabilities,  
malicious code, and security incidents in products and services which  
shall be consistent with good industry practice and standards such as  
ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent appl icable);   
22.3.2 the Supplier shall cont inue to supp ort and provide serv ices to repa ir, 
update, upgrade and maintain products and services including the pro - 
vision of patches to the Customer remedying vulnerabil ities for the rea - 
sonabl e lifetime of the products and services;   
22.3.3  the Supplier shall provide to the Customer a bil l of materia ls identifying  all 
third-party software components contained in the products. Third - party 
software shall be up to date  at the t ime of de livery to the Customer;   22.3.4 the Supplier shall grant to the Customer the right, but the 
Customer shall not be obliged, to test or have tested products 
for malicious code and vulnerabilities at any time, and shall 
adequately support the Customer;  
22.3.5 the Supplier shall provide the Customer a contact for all 
information security related issues (available during business 
hours).  
22.4  The Supplier shall promptly report to the Customer all relevant 
information security incidents occurred or suspected and 
vulnerabilities dis - covered in any Supplier Operations, 
services and products, if and to the extent the Customer is or 
is likely  to be materially affected.  
22.5  The Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve that 
its sub - contractors and suppliers shall, within a reasonable 
time, be bound by obligations similar to the provisions of this 
section 22.  
22.6  Upon the Customer’s request, The Supplier shall provide 
written evidence of its compliance with this section 22 
including generally accepted audit reports (e.g., SSAE -16 
SOC 2 Type II).  
23.  Export Control and Foreign Trade Data Regulations  
23.1 The Supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, 
customs and foreign trade regulations (“Foreign Trade 
Regulations”). In particular, the Supplier represents and 
warrants that none of its products nor its services provided 
under the contract co ntain products and/or services restricted 
for import under the Foreign Trade Regulations applicable to 
the Customer, including but not limited to Council Regulations 
(EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 2022/263 or 765/2006, each as 
amended, and import restrictio ns enforced by the U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection. The Supplier shall advise the 
Customer in writing within 2 weeks of receipt of the order - and 
in case of any changes without undue delay – of any 
information and data required by the Customer to compl y with 
all Foreign Trade Regulations in case of export and import as 
well as re -export, including without limitation:  
• All applicable export list numbers, including the Export 
Control Classification Number according to the U.S. 
Commerce Control List (ECCN); and  
• the statistical commodity code according to the current 
commodity classification for foreign trade statistics and 
the HS (Harmonized System) coding including the 
respective tariff basis on which the classification of the 
product has been performed (e.g.  EU Combined 
Nomenclature, TARIC, US HTS) ; an 
• the country of origin (non -preferential origin); as well as 
the region of origin, if applicable for the respective 
country of origin; proof of origin (e.g.  Packing -List, 
Delivery Note, BOL, GAI); and  
• upon request of the Customer: preferential statement 
including Supplier’s declaration of preferential origin (in 
case of European suppliers) or preferential certificates 
(in case of non -European suppliers); and  
• upon request of the Customer: evidence of the country 
of origin of the iron and steel inputs used for the 
processing of the  products.  
Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage 
incurred by the Customer due to any breach of the obligations 
according to this section 23.1.  
23.2 Ban on re -exports to Russia („No -Russia -Clause“)  
 The following clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) the 
Customer supplies any goods or technology to the Supplier in 
the course of the execution of the contract, (ii) such supplied 
goods or technology are or refer to goods listed in the 
Annexes set o ut in Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 
and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended and (iii) 
and the supply takes place from the EU to a third country 
except for partner countries according to Article 12 g EU 
Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8 g EU Regulation No. 
765/2006 as amended:  
 - The Customer hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the 
Supplier agrees, not to re -export and/or forward, directly or 
indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for use in Russia or Belarus 
any supplied goods as well as technology (and related 
documentation, re gardless of the mode of provision) provided 
by the Customer to the Supplier under the contract.  
 - The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the contract by 
written notice in the event of a breach by the Supplier of the 
obligation pursuant to this section 23.2. Upon termination, the 
Supplier shall pay to the Customer all costs and damages 
incurred b y the Customer from such termination. In any case, 
the Supplier shall pay the Customer liquidated damages in the 
amount of 20 % of the contract price.  
 
             
Page 6 of 6 
                      Unrestricted  
 
 - Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove in this section 23.2, the 
Supplier shall indemnify and hold harmless the Customer in full 
from and against any claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and 
damage asserted by public authorities or other third parties against 
the Customer arising out of or relating to a breach by the Supplier 
of the obligation under this section 23.2 and the Supplier shall 
compensate th e Customer for all losses and expenses incurred 
resulting thereof.  
24.  Reservation Clause  
 The Customer shall not be obligated to fulfill the contract if such 
fulfillment is prevented by any impediments arising out of national 
or internat ional foreign trade or customs requ irements or any 
embargo es or other sanctions.   
25.      Mention as Reference Customer   
 Only upon the Customer’s prior written approval, the Supplier shall 
be allowed to mention the Customer as a reference customer  and/or make reference to products or services which the Supplier 
has developed during the performance of an order for the 
Customer and/or to make press releases or other public 
declarations in connection with the order.  
26.      Supplementar y Provisions   
26.1  Insofar as the provisions of these Conditions of Purchase do not 
regulate certain matters, relevant statutory provisions shall apply.  
26.2  The Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damages 
incurred by the Customer due to any breach of these conditions, in 
particular of sections 7, 12, 13, 14, 20, 21, 22 and 23 .  
27.  Place of Jurisdiction and Applicable Law   
27.1 It is essential to settle disputes to be arisen between the Customer 
and the Supplier in amicable, peaceful manner. But, if the disputes 
could not be settled down in  this manner, then Istanbul (Anatolia) 
Courts and Enforcement Departments will have full power and 
authorization to settle such dispute .
 
 
 
 
 
 