           
Page 1 of 5 
               Unres tricted  
 
         Conditions  of Purchase   
          Status : September  24, 2024  
 
These present Conditions of Purchase (hereinafter called “ Conditions of 
Purchase ”) have been concluded and executed between Siemens Enerji 
Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (hereinafter called “ Siemens Enerji ” and/or 
“Customer ”) and selling company  (hereinafter called  “ Supplier ”) and 
constitute  general terms and conditions of the  Contract (hereinafter  called 
“Contract ”) which includes  arrangements and regulations related to goods 
and services (hereinafter  called  “Produ ct” and/or “Delivery ” and/or  “Work )  
to  be  delivered  to  Siemens  Enerji.   
 
       Customer and Supplier will be referred in singular form as “Party” and together  
       as “Parties” respectively.   
1. Scope of Work, Order  and Confirmation of Order   
1.1      Scope of Work will be specified by a written agreement to be concluded 
and executed by the concerned Parties, which will include mutual terms 
and conditions. In case that such a Contract does not exist at the moment 
of placing purchase order, purchase orde r including order of Customer 
and confirmed by stamp and authorized signatures of the Supplier will 
substitute in place of Contract. All kinds of liabilities and responsibilities 
in respect with stamp, stamp tax, charges and outlays required to be 
contained as per tax laws of purchase orders to be substituted in place 
of Contract will be on account of the Supplier.    
1.2  Any alterations, amendments or additions to the order shall only be - 
come a part of the contract if the Customer accepts such in writing. In 
particular, the Customer is bound by the general terms and conditions of 
the Supplier only to the extent that such are in accordance with these 
Conditions of Purchase or if the Customer agrees to such in writing. The 
acceptance of deliveries or services as well as payments does not 
constitute such agreement.   If purchase order has not been confirmed 
by the Suppli er within 3 days as from delivery date of purchase order, 
then the Customer will have the right to withdraw its purchase order 
without any need to give any notice and legal actions. As long as 
Purchase order is not confirmed in written form by the Supplier, 
provisional on final acceptance of deliveries to be made by the Customer 
would not mean that Work being subject to purchase order continues.    
1.3  Any provisions in other documents provided by the Supplier (such as  but 
not limited to specifications, data sheets, technical documentation,  
advertising materials,  order confirmation and/or shipping documents)  
regardin g legal terms, liability, restriction of use, restriction of application 
and/or restriction of suitabil ity, or any other provision that changes  the 
provisions of these Conditions of Purchase shall not be appl icable.   
1.4 Unless otherwise stipulated in writing or confirmed purchase order, the 
Customer will be able to increase or decrease scope of 
Purchase/Products/Work  in ratio of 10% without obtaining written 
approval or Consent of the Supplier.  
1.5 Unless otherwise stipulated in Contract to be concluded and executed  by 
the concerned parties or in confirmed purchase order, The Supplier 
accepts and agrees with W ork undertaken by it will be in compliance with 
VDE, DIN and the TSE Standards (Turkish Standards Institute ), norms  
and regulations being in force and effect as well as (if exists) environment  
specifications of the Customer .    
 
2. Rights of Use   
2.1  The S upplier hereby grants the Custom er the fo llowing non -exclusive,   
transferable, worldwide,  and perpetual rights:   
2.1.1  to use the de liveries and serv ices includ ing re lated documentation, to   
integrate them into other products and to distribute them.   
2.1.2  to instal l, launch, test and operate software and its related documenta -  
tion (hereinafter col lectively referred to as “Software” ).  
2.1.3  to sub license the rig ht of use under section 2.1. 2 above to aff iliates ( an 
affiliated company, being any legal entity (“Company”),  which directly or 
indirectly is controlled by the Customer, controls the Customer,  or is 
controlled by a Company which directly or indirectly controls the 
Customer , herein - after referred  to as “Affiliates”),  to contracted  third 
parties, to distributors  and to end customers.   
2.1.4  to license to Affiliates and other distributors the right to sublicense the   
right of use under section 2.1.2 above to end customers.   
2.1.5  to use the Software for integrat ion into oth er products and to   
copy the  Software, or to allow Affi liates, contracted th ird parties or 
distributors  to use and copy the S oftware.   
  
2.1.6  to distribute, se ll, hire out, lease,  make ready for download or make  
publicly  available  the Software,  e.g., in the context  of application  service  
providing or in other cont exts, and to copy the S oftware to the extent  required, always prov ided that the number  of licenses be ing 
used at  any one time does not exceed  the number of licenses 
purchased.   
2.1.7  to sub license the right of use  under section 2.1. 6 above  to  
Affiliates contracted th ird parties and d istributors.    
2.2  In add ition to the rights granted  in section 2.1 above, the   
            Custom er, Affiliates and distributors  are authorized  to   
       allow  end customers  to transfer the respective l icenses.  
 
2.3  All sublicenses granted by the Customer must conta in 
appropriat e protection for the intellectual  property  rights  of the 
Supplier  in the Software.  All sublicenses  must conta in any  
contractua l provisions  used  by the Customer to protect its own 
intellectual property rights.   
2.4  The Suppl ier shall infor m the Customer - at the latest at the 
time the  order is conf irmed - wheth er the products and serv ices 
to be de livered  contain open -source  components.   
In the context of this provision “ open -source  components” 
means any  software, hardware or other information that is 
provided royalty -free by  the respective licensor to any user on 
the basis of a license with the  right to modify and/or to distribute 
(e.g., GNU General Publ ic License  (GPL), the GNU Lesser 
GPL (LGPL), or the MIT L icense). S hould the  products and 
services de livered by the Supplier conta in open -source  
components, the Supplier shal l comply with all applicable 
open -source  license terms and sha ll grant a ll those rights to the 
Custom er and pro - vide all information which the Customer 
needs in order to comply him - self with the applicable l icense 
terms. In particular, the Supplier must  deliver to the Customer  
promptly  after the order  is confirmed  the following:  
- A schedule of all open -source  components used, indicating 
the relevant  license, its version and including a copy of the 
complete text  of such  license  and includ ing a reference  to 
copyr ight and/or  author - ship. Such  schedule must have an 
understandable structure and  contain a table of contents.   
- The comp lete source code of the re levant open -source  
software,  including scripts and information regarding its 
generating environment insofar as the applicable open -
source  conditions require this.   
2.5  The Supplier shall by the time of order confirmation at the latest 
inform  the C ustomer in writ ing wheth er any open -source  
licenses used by the  Suppl ier might be subject to a Copyleft 
Effect which  could affect the  products of the Customer. In the 
context of this provision, “Copyleft Effect “means  that the 
provisions of the open -source  license require that  certai n of the 
Supplier’s products, as wel l as any products derived from  such 
products, may on ly be redistr ibuted in accordance wi th the 
terms  of the open -source l icense, e.g., only if the source code 
is disclosed. In  case any open -source licenses used by the 
Supplier are subject to a  “Copyleft  Effect”  as defined  above,  
then the Customer  is entitled to cancel the order within two 
weeks of receipt of this information.  
               3.          Term and Penalty for Breach   
    3.1        For the purposes of establishing the timeliness of delivery, the    
                 relevant  point in time is the date of receipt at the place of   
                destination/del ivery  accordi ng to Incoterms ® 2020 designat ed  
                by the Custom er, and for  deliveries  involving  installation,   
                  commissioning  or rectification  services,  the relevant point in    
                time shal l be the date of acceptance by the Customer.   
 
             3.2          If any delay  in delivery  or performance  or rectification is     
                               anticipated,  the Customer shall be notified immediately, and  
                            its decision sought.   
             3.3         If – in the event of delay – the Supplier cannot prove that it is  
                           not responsible for the delay, the Customer may charge a  
                           penalty. In case it exceeds the delivery date by 2 calendar  
                           days, a fine for delay will be imposed upon the total cost of  
                           order by 0.5%  in respect of each commenced working day   
                           and to be deducted from the payment due to  
                           the SELLER provided its total does not exceed 15% of the  
                           cost of order. However, in the case of a delay in the ordered  
                           good if the issued delay penalty from the end customer to  
                           SIEMENS ENERJİ exceed 15% of the cost of order the (%15)  
                           limit hereby won’t be applied. For the delay exceeding 10    
                           calendar days in total the right of cancelling the order related    
                           to SIEMENS ENERJİ and of not making payment of the   
                           respective order is reserved.  
                           In the event that the appropriate reservation of rights is not  
           
Page 2 of 5 
               Unres tricted  
                           made at the time of acceptance of delivery, services or   
                           rectification, this penalty may still be claimed if the reservation   
                           of rights is made no later than the date of final payment.  
            3.4          Additional or other statutory rights are not affected hereby.  Cancelation of  
                          the order will not affect the applicability of the penalties accrued until the  
                          day off cancelation. Penalties paid due to the order cancelation will not  
                          release the Supplier from the obligation to compensate all the damages  
                          occurred.  
 
4.         Transfer of Risk,  Dispatch and Place of P erformance, Transfer of   
                           Title   
           4.1          For deliveries  involving  installation,  commissioning,  or services,  the  
               transfer of risk occurs on accept ance and for deliver ies not involving         
                 installation or commission ing, the transfer of risk shal l be upon receipt  by  
               the Customer at the named place of destination/del ivery according  to  
               Incoterms ® 202 0. Unless agreed otherwise, DDP (named place of   
                destination)  Incoterms  ® 2020  shall apply, if  (a) the seat of the Supplier  and  
                 the named  place of  destinat ion are within the same  country  or if (b) the seat  
              of the Supplier and the name d place of destination are both  within the  
              European Un ion. If neither (a) nor (b) are fu lfilled, then DAP  (named  place   
        of destination)  Incoterms  ® 2020  shall apply,  unless  agreed otherwise.   
           4.2          Unless otherwise  agreed,  the costs  of adequat e packag ing shall be  
                             borne by  the S upplier. In case  transportat ion costs are borne by  the  
                             Customer, notice of readiness for dispatch shal l be given together with  the   
                           information set out in section 4.3 hereunder. On the Customer’s re quest  
                          a Siemens Energy routi ng order too l must be used by the Supp lier.  
                              Transport  shall be arranged  by the Supplier  at the lowest  poss ible cost,  
                           insofar as the Customer has not requested a particular method of  delivery  
                          or the conclusion of the contract for carr iage by the Customer.  Any  
                               supp lement ary costs  arising  from non-conformity  with the transport   
                             requirements  includ ing costs  arising  from the non-applicat ion of the Sie-  
                             mens Energy routing order too l shall be borne by the S upplier. In case   
                             DAP/DDP (named p lace of destination) Incoterms ® 2020 is agreed,  the  
                          Customer may also  determine the method of transportation. Any   
                             supp lementary costs arising from the need to meet the de livery dead -  
              line by way of expedited delivery shal l be borne by the Supplier.   
           4.3         Each delivery shal l include a packing note or delivery note with details   
              of the contents as wel l as the comp lete order number.   
           4.4         As far as the  Custom er and th e Supplier agree that th e Supplier orders   
              the transport of de liveries cont aining dang erous goo ds for account of  the      
              Custom er, the Supplier is responsi ble to transfer the necessary legally   
                required dangerous  goods  data to the freight  forwarder  nominated  by the  
              Customer when placing the transport order. The Supplier is in  these   
         cases  also responsib le for pack ing, mark ing, labelling,  etc. in comp liance   
        with the regulation relevant  to the mode(s)  of transport  used.   
          4.5         If the Customer informs the Supplier that following the initia l transport   
                            another transport with a different mode of transport is schedule d, the   
                            Suppl ier will also follow the relevant  legal  requirements  concerning  dan-  
                            gerous goods with regard to such o ngoing transport.   
          4.6        Transfer of title shall be upon del ivery or acceptance by the Customer,   
             as the case may be.   
        5.            Payment, Invoices   
         5.1      Unless oth erwise agreed, payments shall be due and payabl e no later  
                than 60 (sixty) days net. If payment is made within 30 (thirty ) days,  the                  
                Customer is entitled to a 3 % (three percent) discount. The period  for    
                  payment  shall  commence  as soon  as any delivery  or service is completed  
                and a correctly issued invoice is received.   
                       New taxes, duties and similar expenses to be imposed by the State related   
                       to Work being subject of Contract will never be reflected by the Supplier to  
                       prices whatsoever reasons including any changes arising from Law,  
                       Regulation, and any other legislation during validity period of the Contract.    
                       Price increases arising from a change in scope of   Work will be only   
                       possible by obtaining written consent and approval of the Customer   
                       following written notification on this subject of the Supplier is given to the  
                      Customer.    
                      The Supplier cannot stop and delay its shipments, due to reason of delay of   
                      the Customer approval or refusal related to price increase. In case of making  
                      rebate in cost inputs the Supplier accepts and approves to reflect such rebate  
                      in same rate to its prices.    
                      For purchases in respect with “Works” to be performed by the Supplier, the  
                      Supplier is obligated to pay contribution premiums of Social Security  
                      Institution of its workers.   
       5.2  The order number as wel l as the number of each individual  item shall  be 
detai led in invoices.  Insofar  as any such  details are omitted, invoices shal l 
not be payable. Copies of invoices shall be marked as du plicates.               5.3  Insofar as the Supplier is required to provide material testing,  
                            test records or qua lity contro l documents  or any  other  
                            document ation, such  shall be a part of the requ irements of  
                            the completeness of the de livery or performance. A discount  
                            shall also be allowed if the Customer sets  off or withholds  any  
                               payments  to a reasonab le extent  on accoun t of any deficiency.   
           5.4    Payment  does  not constitute  an acknowledgement  that the      
                correspond ing delivery or serv ices were prov ided in   
              accordance with the  contract.   
           6. Inspection upon r eceipt   
           6.1 The Customer shal l immediately  upon receipt at the named   
                           place  of destin ation exam ine whether  a delivery  corresponds    
                              to the quantity and type of products  ordered  and wheth er there   
                           are any externa l recogn izable transportation damage or  
                           other obvious deficiencies.  The Customer’s acceptance of  
                           the committed Work will be pending until the acceptance of  
                           the end customer.  
Quantity and calculation control of delivery will be conducted 
so it will be determined whether being in conformity with terms 
and conditions stated in purchase order, then no payment will 
be made by the Customer to the Supplier till delivery invoice is 
accepted by the Customer. If the Supplier does not complete 
and/or rectify the Work in accordance with the written 
directions and within the time stated in such directions given 
by the Customer, the Customer, reserving its compensation 
rights, shall be entit led to complete itself or make completed 
the Work by third parties on behalf of the Supplier or to 
terminate this Contract.    
Faults and defects determined on Work will be remedied and 
corrected gratis (free of charge) by the Supplier within period 
to be granted by the Customer. It may be replaced with the 
new one under the Customer own discretion.   
Unless otherwise stipulated in Contract or in confirmed 
purchase order provided that written approval is obtained 
before then partial shipments will be accepted by the 
Customer.    
However, the Customer will have the right to cancel Work 
unilaterally being subject of confirmed purchase order by 
rejection partial delivery request.    
The Supplier will take back from the Customer material not 
accepted by the Customer within 10 (ten) days as from 
notification date, and related costs and expenses to be 
covered by the Supplier. If material is not taken back, then the 
Customer will not be l iable and responsible for damage and 
losses to be occurred on material.    
           6.2 Should the Customer discover any deficiency in the course of   
these  inspections  or at any later  stage, it shal l inform the 
Supplier of such  deficiency.   
           6.3   Comp laints may be raised wi thin one month of delivery of a 
product or  performance, and insofar as deficiencies are not 
discovered unti l commissioning, processing or first use, within 
one month of detection.   
           6.4  In this regard the Customer shal l have no other duties to the    
            Supplier  other than the duties of inspection and notif ication  
            above.     
           7. Warranty   
           7.1   If deficiencies  are identified  before  or durin g the transfer  of risk 
or during  the warranty  period provided  for in section  7.8 or 7.9,  
the Supplier  must  at its own expense and at the discretion of 
the Customer either repair  the deficiency or prov ide re -
performance of serv ices or rep lacement of  deliveries (= 
rectif ication). This provision also appl ies to deliveries subject to 
inspection by sample tests. The discretion of the Customer shall  
be exercised fairly and reasonably.   
           7.2   Should the Supplier fai l to rectify (i. e. repair or replacement) 
any deficiency within a reasonable time period set by the 
Customer, the Customer is entitled to:   
           7.2.1  cancel the contract in who le or in part w ithout being subject   
                            to any liability for damages; or   
           7.2.2  demand a reduction in price; or   
           7.2.3     undertake itself any repair at the expense of the Supp lier or re -   
perfor mance of serv ices or repl aceme nt of de liveries or arrang e 
for such to  be done; and  claim damages in lieu of performance.  
   For the  purposes of establishing th e timeliness of rectif ication,  
the rele vant point in time is the date of receipt at the place of  
destination.   
 
           
Page 3 of 5 
               Unres tricted  
 
7.3  The rights accordi ng to section 7.2 may be exerc ised w ithout further   
deadline if the Customer has a strong particular interest in immediate  
rectification in order  to avoid  any liabi lity of its own for delay  or for other  
reasons  of urgency  and it is not reasonab le for the Customer  to request  
the Supplier to rectify the deficiency within a reasonable time period.  The 
legal provisions on the dispensability of setting a deadline remain  
unaffected hereby.   
7.4  The above -mentione d rights sha ll expire one year from the dat e of 
notification of the deficiency but in no instance before the expiry of the  
warranty periods set out in this section.   
                7.5  Additional or other statutory rights are not affected hereby.  The Supplier   
                           guarantees that all the products and work  under this   Contract  are new,  
                           unused and in compliance with this Contract . In case  of a defect, the  
                           Supplier will  immediately inform the Customer .   
7.6  If the Supp lier provides subsequent performance  or repa irs,    
            the warranty  periods set out in section 7.8 and 7.9 shall       
            begin  to run once again.  
7.7  Notwithstanding  the transfer  of risk regarding  delivery,  the Supplier  
shall bear the costs  and risk related  to the rectification (e. g.  return  
costs, cos ts of transport, costs of de- and re -instal lation).  
7.8  The warranty period for deficiencies of material is three  
            years, insofar  as no statu tory prov isions prov ide longer periods.   
7.9  The warranty period for deficiencies in title is five years,  
            insofar as no  statutory provisions provide longer periods.   
7.10  For del iveries not involving instal lation or commissioning, the  
 warranty  period begins to run with receipt at the place of destination 
named by  the Customer.  For deliveries  involving  installation,  
commission ing or services, the warranty  period begins to run with 
accept ance by the Customer. Upon del ivery to locations where the 
Customer is operating out side its premises, the warranty period begins 
with the acceptance by  the end customer, i n no case later than one year 
after transfer of risk.   
  
8. Supplier’s Duty to Verify and to Inform   
8.1  The Suppl ier is obl iged to examine components such as, e.g., raw ma -  
                            terial, provided by the Custom er or provided by the Supplier’s  suppliers,          
                               manufacturers or other third parties at the time of receipt of such com -  
                               ponents as to wheth er these comp onents show any obvio us or h idden   
                              defects. In case any defects are discovered in the course of such in -  
                              spections,  the Supplier  shall immediately  inform its  suppliers  or – in the  
                              case the comp onents are prov ided by the Customer – inform the  
                            Customer.   
               8.2      It  is essent ial that the products  are delivered  free of any third-party    
                             rights. Thus,  the Supplier is under a duty to verify title and inform the   
                             Customer of any possible confl icting industrial and intellectual property    
                             rights. A ny breach of such duty is  subject to the norma l statu tory limitation  
                          period.   
              9.        Quality Management, Subcontracting to Third Parties, Controlling   
              9.1       The  Supplier  shall maintain a  quality management  system  (e.g., accord -  
                          ing to DIN EN ISO 9001).   
              9.2       Subcontracting  to third parties  shall not take place  without  the prior writ-  
              ten consent of the Customer and entitles the Customer to cancel the     
               contract in whole or in part and claim damages.   
              9.3      The Customer may have access to the manufacturing and storage   
              facilities of the Supplier at any time. The Customer may also control     
              instruments, machinery, equipment, materials and  goods used in the      
              manufacturing process. The Supplier accepts and undertakes that he will  
              provide all kinds of facilities to the Customer with respect to the controlling   
              to be made by the Customer.    
10.  Provided Materi al, Information   
           10.1       Material and information prov ided by the Customer rema ins  
                         the property of the Customer and are to be stored, labeled as   
                         property of the  Customer  and admin istered  separately  at no   
               cost to the Customer.  Their use is limited to the orders of the  
                         Customer only. The  Supplier  shall supply replacements in the                            event of reduction of value or loss, for  which the Suppl ier is   
                 responsible, even  in the event of simple negligence. This  
                         also appl ies to the transfer of allocated material.   
           10.2        Any processing or transformation of the material and information    
                         shall  take place for the Customer. The Customer shal l              
                          immediately become  owner of t he new or transformed product.   
                         Should this be imposs ible for  legal reasons, the Customer  and   
                         the Supplier hereby  agree that the  Customer shall be the owner  
                         of the new product at all times during the  process ing or  
                          transformat ion. The S upplier shall keep the new product  safe for  
                              the Customer  at no extra  cost and in  so doing  exercise  the duty  
                            of care of a merchant.   
           11.  Tools, P atterns, Samples,  Confidentiality   
           11.1       Any tools , patterns , samples , models,  profiles , drawings , 
                        standard  specif ication sheets, printing templates and materials   
                         provided by the  Custom er or made for the Customer, as we ll  
                         as any materia ls derived  there from, shall not be made   
                         available to any th ird party nor used for  any other purpose  than  
                               those  contractual ly agreed  except  with the prior written  consent   
               of the Customer.  Such  materials  shall be protected  against  
                          unaut horized access or use. S ubject to any further rights the   
                             Customer may demand that such materials be returned if the  
                          Supplier  breaches these duties. 
 
           11.2       The Supplier  shall treat as confidential  the knowledge  and findings,   
                                documents, terms of reference, busin ess processes or other  
                        informat ion that it receives from or about the Customer in the  
                         context of performing  the de liveries and serv ices, as we ll as the  
                         conclusion of the contract  and any resu lts, with regard to th ird  
                         parties - and sha ll keep the same  confidential beyond  the term of   
                              the contract  – for as long  as and insofar  as such in formation has  
                         not become publicly known by legal means or  the Customer  has  
                                  not consented  in writing  to its transfer  in the individual  case.  The  
                            Supplier  shall make  confidential  information  available  only to  
                            those employees who need the information for the fulfillment of  
                         their  duties and shal l ensure th at such employees are also  
                         subject to a duty  to treat such information as confidential. The  
                          Supplier shall use this in - format ion exc lusive ly for the purpose    
                         of performing the deliver ies and  services. Insofar  as the  
                         Custom er agrees  to any subcontract ing to a  third party, such  
                         third party shal l agree to such terms in writing.   
          12.  Assignment of Claims          
      
              Any assignment of any cla im is only allowed with the prior    
              written approval of the Customer.  
  
         13.  Right to Terminate and Cancel   
         13.1       In additi on to any rights prov ided by law to wi thdraw from or   
                        cancel a  contract, the Customer may cancel the contract in whole   
                        or in part in case (a) the Supp lier is in delay with its del ivery or   
                        service and such  delay – desp ite a correspond ing reminder by  
                        the Custom er - persists for more than two weeks after receipt of   
                        such rem inder or in case (b) the Supplier  violates laws being in  
                        force and effect, (c) the Supplier acts against terms  and   
                        conditions of the Contract, or (d) adherence to the contract  
                        fulfillment of the Suppl ier’s obl igations under the  contract.   
 
          13.2       The Customer may a lso terminate the contract in cases of change  
                         in partnership  structure or governing rights, bankruptcy,  
                         insolvency pro ceedi ngs or sim ilar proceedings  in relation to the  
                         assets of the Supp lier are applie d for or com menced.   
 
             In case of a term ination by the Customer the Custom er may   
             continue to util ize exist ing faci lities, de liveries or serv ices a lready     
             performed by  the Supplier in exchan ge for reasonable payment.  
 
 
           
Page 4 of 5 
               Unres tricted  
 
14.  Code of Conduct for S iemens Energy Suppliers , Security in 
the  
Supply Chain   
14.1  The Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable  
legal  system( s). In particu lar, the Supplier wi ll not eng age, actively 
or pas - sively, nor directly or ind irectly in any form of bribery, in any 
violation of  basic human rights of employees or any child labor  and 
the Supplier shall comply  with the regulations of the Siemens 
Energy Code of Conduct and address these expectations to its own 
suppliers along its supply chain .. Moreover, the S upplier will take 
responsibility  for the health  and safety  of its  empl oyees  and shall 
fulfill the applicable minimum wage requirements. By acting in 
accordance with the  applicable  environmental laws , the Supplier  
shall take adequate  measures to avoid the deployment  of so -called 
confl ict minerals  and shall create transparency over the  origin of raw 
materi als. The Supplier shall provide a protected grievance 
mechanism for its own employees  to report possib le violations of 
this Code of Conduct and wil l take reasonable measures to make its 
suppliers  comply with the principles of this  Code of Conduct and to verify 
this on a risk basis . Supp lier shal l be obl iged to duly document its 
comp liance with the  Code of Conduct. Customer and its 
representatives or a third party ap pointed by the Customer and 
reasonably acceptable to Suppl ier shall  be entitled (but not obliged) 
to conduct – also at Suppl ier’s premises – inspect ions in  order  to 
verify Supp lier’s comp liance  with the contractual  obligations,  in 
particular  with the Code  of Conduct.  Any such  inspection  may only 
be conducted in accordance with the appl icable data protec tion law 
and shall neither unreasonably interfere with Suppl iers' business 
activities nor violate any of Suppliers' confidentiality agreements  
with third parties.  Supplier  shall reasonably  cooperate  in any 
inspection  to be conducted. Suppl ier shall immediately  initiate any 
remedial actions if it detects any violation of the Code of Conduct 
by itself or its subcontractors and sha ll prompt ly inform Custom er of 
any such v iolation and the remed ial action  if and to the extent  such 
breach  affects  the contract.   
14.2  The Supplier  shall provide the necessary  organ izational 
instructions  and take measures, particu larly with regard to the 
follow ing secur ity: prem ises secur ity, packag ing and transport, 
business partner, person - nel and information - in order to guarantee 
the security in the supply  chain accordi ng to the requirements  of 
respective i nternat ionally  recog nized  initiatives  based  on the WCO  
SAFE Framework  of Standards  (e. g.  AEO, C-TPAT).  The Supplier  
shall protect  the goods  and services  provided to the Customer or 
provided to third parties designated by the  Customer  against  
unauthorized  access  and manipulation.  The Supplier  shall only 
deploy rel iable personne l for those goods and serv ices and  shall 
obligate any sub -suppliers to take equivalent security measures.   
14.3  In add ition to other rights and remed ies the Custom er may have, the  
Custom er may term inate the contract in case of breach of the 
obligations  under  section 14  by the Supplier.  However,  provided  that 
the Supplier’s breach of contract is capable of remedy, the 
Customer’s right to  terminate is subject to the proviso that s uch 
breach has not been rem edied by the S upplier with in a reasonab le 
grace p eriod set by the Cus tomer.   
15.  Product Conformity, P roduct Related Environmental  
Protection  including Substance De claration, Dangerous 
Goods, Occupational Health and Safety   
15.1  Should the Supplier  deliver products,  to which product -related 
statutory  and legal requirements apply in view of their placing on the 
market and  further marketing in the European Economic  Area , 
marketing in Türkiye  or to which correspon ding requ irements app ly 
regarding oth er coun tries notified by the  Customer  to the Supplier,  
then the Supplier  must ensure  compl iance  of the products  with these  
requirements  at the time of transfer  of risk. Unless  agreed otherwise in 
writing, t he Supplier shall provide the Customer  the following documents in 
the Turkish language ; (i) the instructions on assembly, use, maintenance 
and safety  of the product , (ii) information to be given to end users for them 
to be protected from the risks that the product may carry , and (iii) 
environment, health and safety rules  regarding the product . Furthermore, 
the Supplier must ensure that all documents and informat ion which 
are necessary to provide the proof of conformity of products with  the 
respective requirements can be furnished immediately to the 
Custom er upon request.   
15.2  Should the Supplier deliver products, substances of wh ich are set 
out in the so -called “List of Declarable Substances” 
(www.bomcheck.net/ supp liers/restricted -anddeclarab lesubstances -
list) applicable  at the time of the order or wh ich are subject to 
statutori ly imposed substance  restrictions and/ or informat ion 
requirements (e. g. RE ACH, RoHS), the  Supplier sha ll declare such 
substances and prov ide informat ion as re - quested  in the web 
database  BOMcheck  (www.BOMcheck.net )  no later than the date of 
first delivery of products. With respect to statutori ly im - posed  
substance  restrictions  the forego ing shall only apply to laws  which are applicable at the registered seat of the Supplier or the Cus - 
tomer or at the place of destination named by the Customer.   
15.3  Should the delivery contain goods which – according to international  
regulations  – are classified  as dangerous  goods,  the Suppl ier will 
inform  the Customer hereof in a form agreed upon between the 
Supplier and  the Customer, but in no case later than the date of 
order confirmation.  The requ iremen ts concerning dang erous goods 
in section 4.4 and 4.5  rema in unaffected.   
               15.4      The Supplier is obliged to comply with all legal requirements   
                             regarding  the health and safety  of the personn el employed  by   
                                    the Supplier.  It must  ensure that the health and safety of its   
                  personnel as well as indirect  subcontractors em ployed to  
                            perform the deliver ies and serv ices is pro tected.   
              16.         Cybers ecurity   
 
              16.1       The Supplier shall take   appropriate   organizational   and   
                       technical  measures to ensure the confidential ity, authenticity,  
                             integrity and avail - ability of Supplier Operations as well as  
                            products and services. These  measures shall be consistent  
                            with good industry pract ice and sha ll include  an  
                appropriate  information  security  management  system  con-  
                               sistent with standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443  
                            (to the ex tent appl icable).   
 
              16.2     “Supplier Operat ions” means a ll assets,  processes  and systems    
                          (including informat ion systems), dat a (including Customer dat a),   
                           person nel, and s ites, used or processed by the S upplier from   
                          time to t ime in the performance of this contract.   
             16.3      Should products or services contain software, firmware, or   
                          chipsets:   
             16.3.1  the Supplier shall implement  appropriate  standards,     
               processes  and methods  to prevent,  identify,  evaluate  and   
                repair  any vulnerabilities,  malicious code, and security   
                          incidents in products and services which  shall be consistent   
                          with good industry practice and standards such as  ISO/IEC   
                          27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent appl icable);   
            16.3.2  the Supplier shall cont inue to supp ort and provide serv ices to   
                          repair, update, upgrade and maintain products and services   
                           including the pro vision of patches to the Customer remedying  
                          vulnerabil ities for the rea - sonabl e lifetime of the products and   
                          services;   
 
            16.3.3   the Supplier shall provide to the Customer a bil l of materia ls   
                           identifying  all third-party software components contained in the    
                         products. Third - party software shall be up to date  at the t ime of  
                         delivery to the Customer;   
            16.3.4   the Supplier shal l grant to the Customer  the right, but the     
                         Customer  shall not be ob liged, to test or have tested products for     
                         malicious code  and vulnerabilities at any time, and shall   
                         adequately support the Customer;   
            16.3.5   the Supplier  shall provide  the Customer  a contact  for all   
                         information  security re lated issues (avai lable during business   
                         hours).  
            16.4      The Supplier shall promptly report to the Customer all relevant   
                          informat ion security inci dents occurred or suspected and   
                          vulnerabi lities dis - covered  in any Supplier  Operat ions,   
                             services and products,  if and to the extent the Customer is or is   
                          likely to be material ly affected.   
           16.5        The S upplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its   
                           subcontractors and suppl iers shal l, within a reasonable time, be  
                          bound by  obligations similar to the provisions of this section 16.   
           16.6        Upon the Customer’s  request, the Supplier shal l provide written   
                          evidence  of its compl iance  with this section  16 including    
                generally  accepted audit reports ( e.g., SSAE -16 SOC 2 Type I I).  
           17.        Export Control and Fore ign Trade Data Regulations   
  17.1.  The Supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, customs  and 
foreign trade regulations (“Foreign Trade Regulations”). In particular, the 
Supplier represents and warrants that none of its products nor its services 
provided under the contract contain products and/or services restricted for 
import under the Foreign Tr ade Regulations applicable to the Customer, 
including but not limited to Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 
2022/263 or 765/2006, each as amended, and import restrictions enforced 
by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The Supplier shall advi se the 
Customer in writing within 2 weeks of receipt of the order - and in case of 
any changes without undue delay - of any information and data required by 
the Customer to comply with all Foreign Trade Regulations in case of export 
and import as well as r e-export, including without limitation:  
 
           
Page 5 of 5 
               Unres tricted  
• all applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control 
Classification Number according to the U.S. Commerce Control List 
(ECCN); and  
• the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity 
classification for foreign trade statistics and the HS (Harmonized System) 
coding including the respective tariff basis on which the classification of the 
product has been performed (e.g.  EU Combined Nomenclature,  TARIC, 
US HTS) ; and  
• the country of origin (non -preferential origin); as well as the region of origin, 
if applicable for the respective country of origin; proof of origin 
(e.g. Packing -List, Delivery Note, BOL, GAI); and  
• upon request of the Customer: preferential statement including Supplier’s 
declaration of preferential origin (in case of European suppliers) or 
preferential certificates (in case of non -European suppliers); and  
• upon request of the Customer: evidence of the country of origin of the iron 
and steel inputs used for the processing of the  products.  
Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage incurred by the 
Customer due to any breach of the obligations according to this section 
17.1. 
17.2. Ban on re -exports to Russia („No -Russia -Clause“)  
The following clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) the Customer              
supplies any goods or technology to the Supplier in the course of the execution 
of the contract, (ii) such supplied goods or technology are or refer to goods listed 
in the Annexes set out in Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8g 
EU Regulation  No. 765/2006 as amended and (iii) and the supply takes place 
from the EU to a third country except for partner countries according to Article 12 
g EU Regulation No. 833/20 14 and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as 
amended:  
- The Customer hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the Supplier agrees, not to 
re -export and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for use in 
Russia or Belarus any supplied goods as well as technology (and related 
documentation, re gardless of the mode of provision) provided by the Customer 
to the Supplier under the contract.  
-  The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the contract by written notice in the      event of a breach by the Supplier of the obligation pursuant to this section 17.2.    
Upon termination, the Supplier shall pay to the Customer all costs and damages 
incurred by the Customer from such termination. In any case, the Supplier shall 
pay the Customer liquidated damages in the amount of 20 % of the contract price.  
- Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove in this section 17.2, the Supplier 
shall indemnify and hold harmless the Customer in full from and against any 
claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public 
authorities or other third pa rties against the Customer arising out of or relating to 
a breach by the Supplier of the obligation under this section 17.2 and the Supplier 
shall compensate the Customer for all losses and expenses incurred resulting 
thereof.  
18. Reservation  Clause                                                                                                                 
The Customer shall not be obligated to fulfill the contract if such 
fulfillment is prevented by any impediments arising out of national     
or international foreign trade or customs requirements or any  
embargoes or other sanctions.   
19.  Mention as Reference Customer  
    Only upon the Customer’s prior written approval, the Supplier shall be  
allowed to mention the Customer as a reference customer and/or 
make  reference to products or services which the Supplier has 
developed during the performance of an order for the Customer.  
20.  Supplementary Provisions  
20.1  Insofar as the provisions of these Conditions of Purchase do not  
regulate certain matters, relevant statutory provisions shall apply.  
20.2  The Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damages incurred 
by the Customer due to any breach of these conditions, in particular of 
sections 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16 and 17 . 
21.  Place of Jurisdiction and Applicable Law  
21.1  It is essential to settle disputes to be arisen between the Customer and 
the Supplier in amicable, peaceful manner. But, if the disputes could 
not be settled down in this manner, then Istanbul (Anatolia) Courts and 
Enforcement Departments will have full po wer and authorization to 
settle  such disputes under Turkish law.   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 