 
 Page 1 of 4 
 
General Conditions of Purchase  
GCP20 11 
 
T1827/007 ( 04/17)_Rev. 9 ITCL  
Formation and Content of Contract  
1.1 Commencement of design, manufacture, delivery, start of invoicing or supply of the goods or services implies acceptance of th e order by the Seller under 
these General Conditions of Purchase.  
1.2  The contract shall consist of and the order of precedence s hall be:  
 Any special conditions written or referred to on the face of the order.  
 These General Conditions of Purchase.  
 The Technical Specification referred to on the face of the order.  
 Correspondence listed on the face of the order . 
1.3 The contract co nstitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations or agreement s related 
to the contract, whether written or oral.   
 
2. Inspection and Testing  
2.1 The Buyer and any third party authorised by the Buyer shall be entitled to inspect or test the goods or services at any reasonable time.  
2.2 The Seller shall give at least five working days' advance notice in writing of tests, and the Buyer and any third party autho rised by the Buyer shall be 
entitled to at tend the tests. If the Buyer attends for such tests and the Seller is not able to carry out such tests the Seller shall compe nsate the Buyer for 
all costs incurred at such attendance (including the costs of the Buyer’s own personnel).  
2.3  The Seller shal l provide the Buyer with such test certificates as the Buyer may reasonably require.  
2.4 Inspection and testing in accordance with this clause shall not relieve the Seller of any liability nor imply acceptance of t he goods or services.  
 
3. Title and Risk  
3.1 Title to the goods shall pass to the Buyer on delivery or if earlier upon payment to the Seller of not less than 51% of the c ontract price of those goods.  
3.2 Risk in compliant goods delivered in accordance with the contract shall pass to the Buyer on delivery.  
3.3 Goods belonging to or provided by the Buyer which are in the Seller's custody for any purpose shall be clearly marked and rec orded by the Seller as 
belonging to the Buyer and shall be at the Seller's risk.  
3.4 The Seller supplies the goods un der the contract with good title and free from encumbrances. The Seller acknowledges that the goods may be sold on 
to an end user by the Buyer . The Seller indemnifies and holds harmless the Buyer against the consequences of any breach of this Clause 3.4.  
 
4. Delivery Date  
4.1 The delivery date or dates, date of completion of the works or services or in the case of a service being performed at interv als, the period of the contract, 
shall be that or those specified in the order. The Seller shall furnish such programmes of design, manufacture, delivery and installation as the Buyer may 
reasonably require. If the contract includes the carrying out of tests on the goods after their receipt by the Buyer, then de livery shall not be deemed 
complete until such tests have been passed to the reasonable satisfaction of the Buyer.  
4.2 The Seller shall notify the Buyer immediately he becomes aware that any delivery or performance is likely to be delayed beyon d the specified date or 
dates. Failure by the Seller so to notify  any likely delay shall entitle the Buyer to terminate without liability all or part of the contract and to compensation 
for any losses resulting from the failure or delay.  
4.3 If the Seller fails to deliver on or before the delivery date or dates, there s hall be deducted from the price or paid to the Buyer by the Seller 1% of the 
value of such parts of the contract as cannot in consequence of the said failure be put to the use intended for each week of delay to a maximum of 15% 
of the said value.  
 If any p art of the contract in respect of which the Buyer has become entitled to the said 15% remains uncompleted, the Buyer may give  notice to the 
Seller requiring completion and the notice shall fix a final date for completion which shall be reasonable in all th e circumstances.  
 If for any reason the Seller fails to complete within such time, the Buyer may by further notice to the Seller elect to requi re the Seller to complete, or to 
terminate the contract in whole or in part and recover from the Seller any loss suffered by the Buyer by reason of the said failure.  
 
5. Deficiency in Quantity and Damage  Before Delivery  
5.1 The Buyer shall advise the Seller of any deficiency in quantity  or visible external damage within the following time limits:  
 5.1.1  Deficient quantities or visible external  damage shall be advised within 14 days of the date of delivery of a consignment or part consignment.  
 5.1.2  Non-delivery of the whole consignment shall be advised as soon as is reasonably practicable . 
 
6. Compliance   
6.1 Goods and/or services shall exactly conform to and fulfil the requirements of the contract and shall be fit for purpose. They  shall be made or performed 
in accordance with good engineering practice and all applicable standards and legislation. Goods shall be delivered complete with all instructions, 
warnings and other data necessary for safe and proper operation. Goods or services which do not comply with any or all of the  above shall be considered 
to be defective no matter how slight any breach, shor tfall or excess.  
6.2 If for any reason the Seller is uncertain as to whether the goods or services to be supplied by it will comply with the contr act, it must promptly and before 
despatch inform the Buyer in writing with full details of the possible non -compliance. Written acceptance or rejection of the Seller's application will then 
be provided by the Buyer as soon as possible.  
6.3 If, in respect of any part of the goods and/or services, the Buyer shall at any time, within 36 months of delivery or 24 mont hs of putting into commercial 
use (whichever occurs first), decide that any work done or equipment supplied or materials used by the Seller (including equi pment work or materials 
supplied under this Clause) is or are defective  in design or otherwise  and, as soon as reasonably practicable , notify the Seller of the decision, specifying 
particulars of the defects alleged and of where the same are alleged to exist or to have occurred, then the Buyer at its sole  option may without prejudice 
to its other rights a nd remedies : 
 (i) require that the Seller shall with all speed and, at his own expense, at the location specified by the Buyer, make good the d efects so specified ; 
 (ii) take, at the cost and liability of the Seller, such steps as may in all the circumstan ces be required to make good such defects or replace the 
goods ; 
(iii) providing they have not been put into commercial use, reject the goods and require the Seller to collect them promptly at its  own cost and repair 
or replace them within such time as may be stipulated by the Buyer ; 
(iv) grant a concession to accept the defects subject to such reservation and/or deduction from the Price which in the opinion of the Buyer reflects 
the costs incurred or likely to be incurred by the Buyer as a direct result of the circumstances giving rise to the concession or the granting thereof 
and the benefits (including any reduction in liabilities) accruing or likely to accrue to the Seller by the granting of such a concession ;  
 and, in addition  to any of the above stated  rights and remedies,  the Buyer may require the Seller to repay , or may set off against the Seller , all costs 
incurred by the Buyer  in the Buyer’s sourcing, field service, project management, quality and engineering departments , which would not have been 
incurred but for such defect .  
 Repairs and replacements shall themselves be subject to the foregoing obligations from the date of delivery, re -installation or passing of tests (if any) 
whichever is appropriate after repair or re placement.  
 
 Page 2 of 4 
 
General Conditions of Purchase  
GCP20 11 
 
T1827/007 ( 04/17)_Rev. 9 ITCL  
6.4 If the Seller fails to remedy any defect as above provided, the Seller shall return any money paid by the Buyer in respect of  the defective items or item 
which cannot be used by reason of such defect  and pay the Buyer any costs and expenses suffered by the Buyer due to the Seller’s failure,  and the 
Buyer shall be entitled to terminate the contract or part thereof without prejudice to its other rights and remedies.  
 
7.  Variations  
7.1 The Seller shall accept and perform any reasonable variatio n in scope, specification, quantity or delivery requested by the Buyer. The price shall be 
adjusted to reflect the variation having regard to the rates and prices used in the contract or, where these are not relevant , to what is fair and reasonable.  
7.2 Neither party shall be bound by any variation to the contract unless and until it is confirmed by an official order amendment i ssued by the Buyer.  
 
8. Price and Payment  
8.1 The prices stated on the order are fixed and firm for the duration of the contract.  
8.2 Unless otherwise stated in the order, the contract price shall be inclusive of the costs of delivery C.I.P. (as defined in In coterms® 2010) to the delivery 
address stated on the face of the order.  
8.3 Unless otherwise agreed in writing, paym ent shall be made by the Buyer against services performed in accordance with the contract or delivery of 
compliant goods together with all documentation required under the contract within 120 days following submission of an acceptable invoice.  
 If payment  of any sum payable is delayed the Seller shall be entitled to receive interest on the amount unpaid during the period of dela y. The interest 
shall be paid at the rate of three per cent per annum above the London Interbank Overseas Rate (LIBOR) in force fr om time to time during the period of 
delay.  
 
9. Free-issue Materials and Tooling  
9.1 Where tooling (including patterns, dies, moulds, jigs and fixtures and the like) is manufactured or acquired by the Seller sp ecially for the purpose of the 
contract, title  to it shall pass to the Buyer upon its creation or acquisition. The Seller shall deliver up such tooling to the Buyer on dema nd. 
 9.2 Where the Buyer for the purpose of the contract issues materials (including equipment, components, tooling, patterns, die s, moulds, jigs and fixtures and 
the like) free of charge to the Seller, such materials shall be clearly marked as and remain the property of the Buyer. Selle r shall maintain all such 
materials in good order and condition subject, in the case of tooling, p atterns and the like, to fair wear and tear. The Seller shall use such materials solely 
in connection with the contract. Any surplus materials shall be disposed of at the Buyer's discretion. Damage to or waste of such materials arising from 
bad workmanship  or negligence of the Seller shall be made good at the Seller's expense. Without prejudice to any other rights of the Buyer, t he Seller 
shall deliver up such materials, whether further processed by the Seller or not, to the Buyer on demand.  
 
10. Intellectu al Property Rights and Confidentiality  
10.1 All information and know -how including drawings, specifications and other data provided by the Buyer in connection with the contract shall remain at a ll 
times the Buyer's property and may be used  only by the Sell er (and not any third party)  for the  sole purpose of performing the contract. The Seller shall 
keep the information and know -how confidential  and shall not disclose or sub -licence such information and know -how to any third party including, without 
limitati on, affiliates of the Buyer or the Seller.  The Seller  shall return any such information and know -how to the Buyer upon request. Information relating 
to the Buyer’s business which comes to the notice of or into the possession of the Seller as a result of th e performance of the contract shall be kept 
confidential by the Seller.  
10.2 The Seller shall indemnify the Buyer (except in respect of designs provided by the Buyer) against all claims arising from inf ringement of intellectual 
property rights in relation to the goods , processes  or services which are the subject of the contract.  In addition, the Seller shall obtain for the Buyer the 
right to possess and use the respective goods and processes free of charge or replace them free of charge with goods or proce sses not infringing third 
party rights.  
10.3 The Seller shall neither quote nor supply parts made with the Buyer's tools or materials, or to the Buyer's patterns, drawing s, specifications or designs, 
to any third party , including without limitation affiliat es of the Buyer, without  the Buyer's prior written consent.  
10.4 Any inventions, patents, copyrights, design rights and other intellectual property rights arising from the execution of the o rder shall become the property 
of the Buyer and the Seller shall n ot disclose the same to any third party. The Seller shall do all things and execute such documents as may be necessary 
to assign such property to the Buyer.  
 
11. Force Majeure  
11.1 If performance of the contract is delayed by any act of God, act or omissio n of government, war or similar event (excluding strikes or other industrial 
disputes) beyond either party's reasonable control ("Force Majeure"), then the time for performance shall be amended accordin gly subject to the delayed 
party promptly informing th e other of the event and taking all reasonable steps to reduce the delay.  The Buyer is entitled to a refund of any advance 
monies paid to the Seller in the event of termination by the Buyer due to force majeure.   
 
12. Termination  
12.1 The Buyer may termina te the contract or part thereof without prejudice to any other of its rights under the contract or at law and without liabili ty to the 
Seller if:  
 12.1.1  an event of Force Majeure does or is likely to delay performance more than 30 days, or  
 12.1.2  the Sel ler is in breach of any of its obligations and does not remedy or commence to remedy the breach as soon as reasonably possibl e 
(and within seven days of a notice to remedy or commence to remedy from the Buyer), or  
 12.1.3  entitled to do so under the provi sions of Clause 4.2 or Clause 6.4, or  
 12.1.4  the Seller becomes bankrupt or insolvent or (being a Company) makes an arrangement with its creditors or has a receiver or ad ministrator 
appointed or commences to be wound up , or 
 12.1.5  permitted to do so unde r Clause 15.3.   
12.2 On termination for default under Clauses 12.1.2 and 12.1.3, the Seller shall compensate the Buyer for the cost of completing the goods or services 
contracted to be supplied by the Seller.  
12.3 The Buyer may terminate the contract for convenience . In such event, and provided that the Seller is in compliance with its obligations under the contract, 
the Buyer shall compensate the Seller for costs reasonably and properly incurred until then in perfo rming the contract which would otherwise represent 
an irrecoverable loss to the Seller, subject to the Seller taking all reasonable steps to minimise its losses and subject to reasonable proof being provided. 
Compensation shall not in any event exceed the contract price.  
12.4 Termination of the contract in whole or in part, however occasioned, shall not affect or prejudice provisions of the contract  which by their nature are 
intended to continue, including Clauses 10, 12.2, 12.3, 13, 17 or 20.   
 
13. Liabili ty for Accidents and Damage  
13.1 The Seller shall at all times during and after performance of the contract indemnify the Buyer against:  
 
 Page 3 of 4 
 
General Conditions of Purchase  
GCP20 11 
 
T1827/007 ( 04/17)_Rev. 9 ITCL  
 13.1.1  all loss or damage to property and all claims and expenses in connection therewith caused by the acts or omissi ons of the Seller, its sub -
contractors, employees and agents; and  
 13.1.2  liability for death and personal injury and all claims and expenses in connection therewith caused by the Seller, its sub -contractors, 
employees and agents.  
13.2 Neither party shall have any liability whatsoever to the other for the other's loss of profit, loss of production, loss of business , loss of use or loss of 
revenues arising by way of indemnity or from any breach of contract, negligence, breach of statutory duty or other wise.  
13.3 The Seller shall take out and keep in force suitable public and products liability insurance against its liabilities under th is clause and shall demonstrate 
the same to the Buyer at all reasonable times.  
 
14. Health, Safety and the Environment  
14.1 The Seller shall provide to the Buyer in writing all data, instructions and warnings as are required to comply with applicabl e legislation relating to health, 
safety and the environment and shall indemnify the Buyer against any and all liabilities, cl aims and expenses which may arise as a result of the Seller's 
failure to do so.  
14.2 If any of the goods to be supplied under the contract contain any hazardous substances or require any special precautions to be taken to ensure safety 
in handling, transp ort, storage or use and for the protection of the environment, the Seller shall prior to their delivery furnish to the Buyer written details 
of the nature of those substances and the precautions to be taken. The Seller shall ensure that before despatch app ropriate instructions and warnings 
are clearly and prominently marked on the goods or securely attached to them and on any containers into which they are packed . 
14.3 Without prejudice to clause 14.2, if transport of goods is to be performed by a carrier c ommissioned by the Buyer, the Seller shall submit information and 
data concerning dangerous goods to the carrier in accordance with applicable legal requirements. Such data and information sh all be relevant to all 
modes of transport to be used if the Buyer  informs the Seller, or if the Seller is aware, that multimodal transport is to be used. The Seller is liable for any 
expenses, loss or damages incurred by the Buyer due to any breach by the Seller of its obligations under this clause 14.3.  
14.4 The Buyer,  Seller and any third parties involved in the site, as appropriate, shall at all times co -ordinate their activities to ensure that work is carried out 
safely. After confirmation of order and before any mobilisation of personnel, they shall agree instructio ns (including method statements and risk 
assessments to establish a safe system of work. Each party shall promptly notify the others of any health or safety hazards a nd incidents at the site. The 
Seller shall at all times whilst attending or working on any  site familiarise itself and fully comply with all relevant health, safety and environmental laws, 
rules, regulations and procedures, the Buyer’s health and safety policies, and any other requirements which may reasonably be  notified by the Buyer to 
the Se ller. 
14.5 If the goods or services contain items which are subject to statutorily -imposed substance restrictions and/or information requirements which apply at the 
place of the Seller, the place of the Buyer or the place of delivery (including, but not li mited to, REACH and RoHS) the Seller shall declare such substances 
in the web database BOMcheck ( www.BOMcheck.net ) or in a format reasonably required by the Buyer no later than the first date for delivery. The Seller  
shall declare, in the aforementioned manner, all substances which are set out in the “Siemens List of Declarable Substances” (accessible via BOMcheck 
or http://www.siemens.com/sustainability/pool/umweltmanagement/declarationliste_e.pdf ) applicable at the time of delivery.  
14.6 If the goods or services contain items which are classified as dangerous goods according to international regulations, the Se ller shall have informed the 
Buyer prior to formation of this contract.  
 
15. Export Control and Foreign Tra de Data Regulations  
15.1 The Seller shall comply with all applicable export control, customs and foreign trade regulations (collectively “Foreign Trad e Regulations”). The Seller 
shall advise the Buyer in writing within two weeks of receipt of the order, an d in the case of any changes without undue delay, of any information and 
data required by the Buyer to comply with all Foreign Trade Regulations in the case of export and import as well as re -export of the goods or services, 
including without limitation:  
- all applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control Classification Number according to the U.S. Commerce Control  List (ECCN); and  
- the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity classification for foreign trade statistics  and the HS (Harmonized System) coding; 
and  
- the country of origin (non -preferential origin); and, upon request of the Buyer, the Seller’s declaration of preferential origin (in case of European 
suppliers) or preferential certificates (in case of non -European suppliers).  
15.2 Without diminishing any other right or remedy which the Buyer may have under the contract or at law, failure by the  Seller to comply with clause 15.1  
entitles the Buyer to do one or more of the following:  
(a) terminate the contract u nder clause 12.1.2;  
(b) withhold any sums due to the Seller until such time as the Seller has complied and the Buyer has verified such compliance.  
The Seller shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage incurred by the Buyer due to any breach of the obli gations in clause 15.1, unless the Seller is 
not responsible for such breach.  
15.3 Notwithstanding clause 11.1, t he Buyer  shall not be obligated to perform this contract to the extent that such performance is prevented, hindered, 
restricted or delayed by any impediments arising out of any national or international foreign trade or customs requirements o r any embargoes or oth er 
sanctions, in each case whether or not foreseeable by the Buyer . If the Buyer ’s performance is prevented, hindered, restricted or delayed for more than 
four months by any cause referred to in this clause 15.3 , then either party may, and while the cause of the non -performance still exists, terminate the 
contract (in which event clause 12.1.5 shall apply).  
 
16. Assignment  
16.1 The contract shall not be assigned or sub -contracted by the Seller as a whole. The Seller shall not assign or sub -contract any part  of the work without 
the Buyer's prior written approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, but the restriction contained in this clause sh all not apply to sub -contracts 
for materials, minor details, or any part for which the sub -contractor is named  in the contract. The Seller shall be responsible for all work done and goods 
supplied by all sub -contractors.  
16.2 The Buyer may assign this contract to any company which is a member of the SIEMENS Group.  
 
17. Disputes with Third Parties  
17.1 If any third  party makes any claim against the Buyer arising from the performance of the contract by the Seller, or in respect of goods or  services supplied 
under it, the Seller shall at its own expense on request by the Buyer join the Buyer in defending the claim. Th e decision of any court or arbitration tribunal 
deciding upon the claim shall, so far as is relevant, be admitted as conclusive in any consequent claim made by the Buyer aga inst the Seller under the 
contract.  
 
18. Taxes  
18.1 The Buyer shall be entitled to  deduct from payments to be made to the Seller under the contract any taxes, national insurance contributions and similar 
charges if the Seller fails to provide the Buyer with proper certification of exemption from such deductions.  
 
 
 Page 4 of 4 
 
General Conditions of Purchase  
GCP20 11 
 
T1827/007 ( 04/17)_Rev. 9 ITCL  
 
 
 
 
19. Code of Conduct for Siemens S uppliers  
19.1 The Seller  shall comply with the principles and requirements of t he "Code of Conduct for Siemens  Suppliers" attached hereto (hereinafter the “Code of 
Conduct”).  The Seller is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal system(s). In particular, the Seller will not engage, actively or passively, 
nor directly or indirectly in any form of bribery, in any violation of basic human rights of employees or any child labor. Mo reover, the Seller will take 
responsi bility for the health and safety of its employees, the Seller will act in accordance with the applicable environmental laws a nd will use best efforts 
to promote the Code of Conduct among its suppliers.  
19.2 The Seller shall provide necessary instructions a nd take suitable measures in relation, but not limited, to security of premises, packing, transport, business 
partners, personnel and information in order to guarantee security in the supply chain pursuant to the requirements of any in ternationally recogni zed 
initiatives based on the WCO SAFE Framework of Standards (such as AEO and C -TPAT). The Seller shall protect the goods and services against 
unauthorized access and manipulation. The Seller shall only deploy reliable personnel in relation to the goods an d services and shall procure that its 
suppliers take security measures no less stringent than those set out in this clause 19.2.   
19.3 In addition to other rights and remedies the Buyer may have, the Buyer may terminate the contract and/or any purchase or der issued thereunder in case 
of breach of these obligations by the Seller. However, provided that Seller’s breach of contract is capable of remedy, the Bu yer’s right to terminate is 
subject to the proviso that such breach has not been remedied by the Sell er within a reasonable grace period set by the Buyer.  
 
20. Law 
20.1 This contract shall be construed as an English contract governed by the laws of England and Wales except for its conflict of laws provisions. Disputes 
under or in connection with it shall be subject to the non -exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts. The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the 
International Sale of Goods signed in Vienna in 1980 shall not apply to this contract.  
20.2 If any dispute arises out of this contract, t he parties shall attempt to settle it by mediation in accordance with the Centre for Dispute Resolution (CEDR) 
Model Mediation Procedure. No party may commence any court proceedings or arbitration in relation to any dispute arising out of this contract unt il they 
have attempted to settle it by mediation and that mediation has terminated.  
20.3 If this contract is a construction contract for the purposes of Section 108 of the Housing Grants, Construction and Regenerat ion Act 1996 the SIEMENS 
Adjudication proc edure current at the date of the reference shall apply to any dispute referred to adjudication.  
 
21. Obsolescence  
21.1 If Seller decides to discontinue the supply of a Deliverable, S eller shall provide Buyer  with at least lead time (for the relevant Delive rable) plus twelve 
(12) months’ prior written notice to the date on which such Deliverable will be delivered for the last time. In this case, or  in the event that for other reasons 
the S eller cannot or will not meet its contractual obligations, the S eller agrees, if requested by Buyer , to grant Buyer  a right of reproduction for all 
discontinued Deliverables under this Agreement. If Buyer  exercises its right of reproduction, the S eller shall make available to Buyer  all necessary 
intellectual property rights for the reproduction (including, but not limited to, patents, utility models and registered designs, trademarks and copyright s), 
together with documents that are in the S eller’s possession (including, but not limited to, design and production drawings, cir cuit diagrams, other technical 
documentation), as well as the production, manufacturing tooling and testing equipment available for this purpose, in return for fair compensation. If 
necessary, in this case the S eller shall also cooperate in transferring pr oduction, and shall make available sufficient numbers of qualified personnel. In 
the event of different opinions with respect to the amount of the fair compensation, the S eller shall grant Buyer  the right of reproduction in return for 
payment of the amount  that is not in dispute between the Parties. The fair compensation shall be determined thereafter in accordance with the dispu te 
resolution Section of this Agreement.  
21.2 Seller shall bear additional costs incurred by Buyer  due to the storage of discontin ued Deliverables.  
21.3 In the event that it becomes necessary, for example for reasons of sales strategy or competition policy, for the S eller, Buyer , or third parties to produce 
Deliverables, or have them produced in third countries, the S eller shall supp ort Buyer  in this regard. The Parties will reach an agreement that preserves 
both sides’ interests, in particular with regard to any necessary technology transfer.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 