 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
1 TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR PURCHASE OF GOODS AND SERVICES - USA 
These Terms and Conditions for purchase of Goods and/or Services (“Terms”) by Siemens Energy, Inc. in the 
USA (“Siemens Energy”) and all documents attached hereto or referenced herein (“Exhibits”), including the Purchase 
Order form, amendments or change or ders if any, shall constitute the contract for the Goods/Services purchased by 
Customer (collectively “Purchase Order”). “Customer” means Siemens Energy, Inc., the Siemens Energy entity or 
Siemens Energy Affiliate identified in the Purchase Order. “Supplie r” means the party identified in the Purchase Order . 
Supplier and Customer are authorized to do business or maintain a registered agent in the USA. Customer and Supplier 
are, individually, referred to as a “Party” and, collectively as the “Parties”. “Affil iate” means, with respect to a Party, any 
other party who directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common 
control with such Party.  “Representatives” mean a Party’s  and its respective Affiliates’ di rectors, officers, principals, 
employees, agents, representatives and/or subcontractors. “Goods” mean products, materials, raw materials, supplies, 
equipment, information, Work Product, data, drawings, designs, specifications, firmware, hardware, reports a nd/or 
software furnished by Supplier hereunder. “Services” mean the tasks/deliverables to be provided/performed by Supplier 
as set forth in the Purchase Order. The Purchase Order is effective and is expressly conditional upon Supplier’s assent 
to all terms  and conditions in the Purchase Order that are different from or additional to those stated in Supplier’s 
quotation, proposal, or other offering documents.  Customer hereby gives notice of objection to any different or additional 
terms offered by Supplier in any response to th e Purchase Order.  Shipment of any Goods or the performance of any 
Services by Supplier shall be deemed to constitute Supplier’s assent to these Terms.  
1. Communications and Change Orders .  
(A) All written communications shall (i) be directed to the addresses set forth in the Purchase Order, (ii) refer 
to the Purchase Order number and (iii) be delivered in accordance with the Purchase Order.    
(B) If Customer requires modifications to the Goods/Services, the Parties shall negotiate an equitable 
adjustment in the form of a change order or amendment. Supplier shall not make any changes without Customer’s 
prior written consent.   
2. Pricing, Terms of Payment, Taxes and Duties . 
(A) The purchase price set forth in the Purchase Order shall be in US Dollars, shall be firm and shall include 
Supplier’s overhead, insurance, packaging, storage and shipping, wages and other amounts owed to Supplier’s 
Representa tives, including all administrative and travel expenses, taxes, customs, tariffs and all other costs, and 
expenses (including transfer pricing) applicable to the Goods/Services. The purchase prices for Goods (both tangible and 
intangible) and Services shal l be separately stated. Supplier shall not be entitled to final payment unless and until it has 
furnished to Customer and/or executed such receipts, affidavits, releases of lien, or other evidence as may be required by 
Customer to establish to the satisfac tion of Customer that no lien or claim exists.  Supplier shall furnish a monthly 
statement certifying that all amounts due by the Supplier for wages, services and materials furnished by the Supplier , 
including the same for any of its Representatives , for t he month covered by the Supplier’s invoice(s) have been paid. 
Supplier ’s acceptance of final payment shall operate to release and discharge any and all claims of Supplier or any party 
that may claim by or through it, and any and all liability of Customer , hereunder or in connection herewith.  
(B) Customer shall not be responsible for the payment of any taxes, customs, tariffs, fees or duties other than those 
required to be paid by Customer under Applicable Law (defined below) and which are clearly itemized o n Supplier’s 
invoice(s). Customer shall provide tax exemption certificates or other applicable tax documents as reasonably requested by 
Supplier.   
(C) Unless otherwise set forth in the Purchase Order, invoices are due and payable net one hundred twenty (120) 
days after receipt of the Goods (including all documents required in the Purchase Order), performance of the Services, and 
a receipt of a correc t undisputed invoice by Customer.  Payment(s) shall be by electronic banking method identified in the 
Purchase Order.   
3. Title, Risk of Loss, Delivery .   
(A) Title to Goods, and title or license to Services, shall pass to Customer at the earlier of (i) paym ent by Customer 
or (ii) receipt of the Goods/Services by Customer per the delivery terms in the Purchase Order.  In the event of advance 
or progress payments, Supplier shall (a) reasonably identify or otherwise mark the Goods/Services as Customer’s 
propert y; (b) sign and deliver such documents for Customer to confirm that title or license has passed to Customer; and 
(c) if requested by Customer, provide an advance payment bond acceptable to Customer. Goods/Services shall be 
delivered free and clear of all l iens or claims.   
(B) For Goods purchases, the Purchase Order shall state the (i) mode, manner and timing of delivery to Customer, 
its end user(s) or designee(s) and (ii) address of final destination.  Regardless of the shipping terms used, risk of loss to  
the Goods shall remain with Supplier until Goods are in the possession, custody and control of Customer.  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
2 (C)  Shipments sent C.O.D. without Customer’s written consent will not be accepted and will be at Supplier’s risk.  
Supplier is instructed to ship onl y the quantities specified in the Purchase Order.  Any deviation caused by conditions of 
loading, shipping, packing, or allowances in manufacturing processes may be accepted by Customer only pursuant to a 
duly executed amendment or change order as set fort h in Section 1(B).  Customer reserves the right to return, without 
liability, any overshipment at Supplier’s expense.  
(D) Supplier shall comply with Customer’s delivery dates at its sole cost unless the Parties otherwise agree in 
writing. If a delay origi nates with Supplier or its Representatives, Supplier shall be solely responsible for expedited 
delivery and other charges to meet delivery dates.  Goods shipped in advance of Customer’s delivery dates may, at 
Customer’s option, be returned to Supplier at S upplier’s expense.  Customer reserves the right to delay shipment of the 
Goods for up to thirty (30) days at no additional cost.  
(E)  Time is of the essence with respect to Supplier’s obligations hereunder.  Supplier shall provide sufficient labor, 
materia l, services, management forces, plant facilities and equipment working such hours, including night shift, overtime, 
weekends and holidays as may be required by Customer to assure compliance with the established schedule and/or 
completion /delivery  date. Sup plier shall be solely responsible for the safe and lawful transportation of any personnel and 
Goods in connection with the performance required hereunder.  If the Purchase Order does not specify liquidated 
damages, then Supplier shall be responsible for Cu stomer’s actual costs and damages resulting from late delivery of the 
Goods and/or Services.   If liquidated damages for delay in delivery or completion are set forth in the Purchase Order, 
Supplier expressly agrees that (i) such liquidated damages were sp ecifically negotiated by the Parties and are in lieu of 
Customer’s actual damages for delay, which both Parties agree such damages would be difficult or impossible to 
calculate, (ii) such liquidated damages constitute a fair and reasonable estimate of the amount of damages that would be 
incurred by Customer in the event of such delays in delivery or completion of the Goods and/or Services in light of 
anticipated harm, and the difficulties of proof of and inconvenience or non -feasibility of obtaining any ade quate remedy, 
(iii) such liquidated damages are not intended as and shall not be deemed or construed as penalties, and (iv) it waives 
any right to contest the validity or enforceability of such liquidated damages. Notwithstanding any such payment of 
liquid ated damages for late delivery, Supplier shall remain obligated to meet the delivery terms.  
4. Inspection and Quality Control .  Customer , its Representatives and/or end user(s) may inspect, test, reject or 
accept Goods/Services during manufacture or performance. If inspections/tests are made on Supplier's premises, 
Supplier, without additional charge, shall provide reasonable facilities an d assistance for the safety and convenience of 
Customer’s inspectors. Customer’s inspections/tests will not unduly interfere with Supplier’s business. Supplier shall 
maintain quality control and inspection systems as mutually agreed upon by the Parties and  provide Customer with 
quality assurance documentation, manuals or certifications. Notwithstanding prior inspection or testing, payment, or 
passage of title, all Goods/Services shall be subject to final inspection and written acceptance at final destinatio n, with 
such rights of inspection/rejection being in addition to any other rights or remedies of Customer under th e Purchase 
Order or Applicable Law. If Customer rejects all or part of the Goods, Customer may return Goods to Supplier, at 
Supplier’s sole ri sk and expense, for rework or replacement, and Supplier shall ship conforming Goods within ten (10) 
days of Supplier’s receipt of the rejected Goods.  If Customer determines, in its sole discretion, that Supplier is unable to  
rework or replace Goods within  the time required by Customer, Customer may: (A) rework or have another supplier 
rework the Goods, the cost of such rework to be paid by Supplier; (B) return Goods to Supplier for full credit and obtain 
replacement from an alternate source, at Supplier’s expense; or (C) produce replacement Goods at Supplier’s expense. 
All Services found to be defective or nonconforming shall be re -performed at Supplier’s expense.  
5. Goods and Services Warranty .  
(A) GENERAL WARRANTIES: Supplier represents and warrants that i t shall perform the Services and furnish the 
Goods in a professional and workmanlike manner, and the Goods/Services furnished hereunder  
 (1) shall (i) be new and of merchantable quality, (ii) be fit for and capable of the intended use; (iii) be of high 
quality and free from any defect or nonconformity in design, workmanship or materials; (iv) not be government or 
commercial surplus, used, remanufactured or reconditioned or of such age or so deteriorated as to impair the 
usefulness or safety thereof,  and (v) strictly conform to the requirements of th e Purchase Order, Customer’s 
specifications, drawings, samples and other descriptions or instructions furnished by Supplier or Supplier’s 
Representatives, generally accepted professional, engineeri ng, manufacturing and/or technology standards, and 
Applicable Law; in each instance, until the later of eighteen (18) months after the Goods are first placed into service 
or thirty -six (36) months after delivery, and in the case of Services, eighteen (18) months after the completion of the 
Services;   
 (2) (i) are free of any liens, encumbrances or claims, (ii) are free of Asbestos, Asbestos containing 
materials or any other materials prohibited by Applicable Laws; (iii) bear all markings, labels, warnings,  notices or 
other information required under Applicable Law; and (iv) do not contain any substance prohibited by national or 
international regulations applicable to the Supplier or Customer, or at the point of delivery;  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
3 (3) do not (i) infringe, violate or  misappropriate any intellectual property right(s) of third parties or (ii) violate 
Applicable Laws; and  
(4) Supplier has all of the rights, permits, licenses and authority necessary to perform its obligations 
hereunder.  
(B) TECHNOLOGY WARRANTIES: Supplie r further represents and warrants that (i) Goods/Services including 
any software, related documentation, updates furnished hereunder and the media it is delivered on, or any 
“Software as a Service” or “Cloud” service, have been scanned for viruses and othe r malicious code and have been 
found to be free from viruses and malicious code; and (ii) the Goods/Services do not (a) grant access to servers, 
systems or programs of Customer, its Affiliates or Representatives or Customer’s end user customers by person(s ) 
other than Customer, its Affiliates or Representatives or (b) contain any program, routine, code, device or other 
undisclosed feature including but not limited to a time bomb, ransomware, virus, software lock, trojan horse, worm 
or trap door (“Disabling Feature”) that is designed to delete, disable or interfere with the Goods/Services, infect the 
host or perform an unauthorized process, and if any Disabling Feature is discovered or reasonably suspected to be 
present, Supplier shall immediately notify Cust omer and, at its sole expense, delete such Disabling Feature and 
carry out the recovery necessary to remedy its impact.  
(C) For a breach of Supplier’s warranty, Customer’s remedies shall include but not be limited to Supplier’s 
correction of  any nonconfo rmity with the warranty at its sole expense, and at the sole discretion of Customer, 
Supplier shall promptly (i) repair or replace the nonconformity (and correct any plans, specifications, or drawings 
affected); (ii) furnish Customer or its end users any m aterials, parts and instructions necessary to correct the 
nonconformity, including reimbursement for Customer’s costs; or (iii) pay Customer a mutually agreed portion of the 
Purchase Order price. Customer shall also be entitled to recover all costs and exp enses incurred directly by 
Customer, its Representatives or payable to third parties, including additional costs of Customer’s personnel or 
other labor, evaluation, re -working or scrapping, or transportation costs, or costs incurred in remo ving defective o r 
nonconforming Goods/Services from proper ty, equipment  or produ cts from property or premises where they ha ve 
been  incorpora ted.  
(D) The warranty with respect to any corrected Goods/Services shall be subject to the same terms as the 
original warranty except that the warranty on any corrected or replaced Goods/Services shall be the longer of (i) 
one year from the date of repair or replacement or (ii) until the end of the original warranty period.  
(E) Customer's approval of Supplier's samples, p rototypes or first articles shall not be construed as a waiver of 
any express or implied warranty.  
(F) In addition to any other obligations set forth in this Article 5, Supplier shall pass through all assignable 
third-party manufacturers’ warranties appli cable to Goods/Services furnished by Supplier. In the event a third -party 
warranty is not assignable, Supplier shall enforce its warranty against a third -party at Supplier’s expense upon 
Customer’s reasonable request. Supplier shall immediately notify Cust omer in writing of product recalls and/or 
product safety notices that concern the Goods/Services.  
(G) Customer shall have the right to assign all Supplier warranties under th e Purchase Order to third parties 
including Customer’s customers/end users who shall have all rights to enforce such warranty.  
6. Customer Furnished Property .   
(A) The term “Customer Furnished Property” shall mean all tools, patterns, equipment, materials or oth er 
property which, pursuant to the Purchase Order, is either (i) supplied by or on behalf of Customer or its 
Representatives to Supplier to perform the Services or furnish the Goods, (ii) purchased by Customer from Supplier 
which is to be “delivered in pla ce” and stored at Supplier’s facility, or (iii) to be stored and maintained by Supplier at 
a Supplier facility.  Title to Customer Furnished Property shall remain with Customer (or Customer’s customer, 
vendor, or other party which owns title thereto), and Supplier shall bear all risk of loss or damage thereto while in 
Supplier’s care, custody or control.  For Customer Furnished Property in Supplier’s possession, custody or control, 
Supplier shall insure against loss and damage in an amount equal to full rep lacement cost. Customer Furnished 
Property is furnished by Customer “AS IS”, “WHERE IS”, AND “WITH ALL FAULTS ”.  
(B) With respect to Customer Furnished Property covered in subsections 6( A)(i) and (ii) above, Supplier shall 
not use such Customer Furnished Prope rty on any work other than the Goods/Services. Supplier shall, at its own 
expense, maintain and repair such Customer Furnished Property and return it to Customer when required in the 
Purchase Order or as otherwise directed by Customer in the condition in w hich received, reasonable wear and tear 
excepted.  
(C) With respect to Customer Furnished Property described in subsection 6(A)(iii) above, Supplier shall make 
no use of such Customer Furnished Property other than to properly off load, store and maintain the same as set 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
4 forth in the Purchase Order and return the same to Customer in the condition when received by Supplier.  Supplie r 
shall clearly mark Customer Furnished Property to show Customer's ownership.  Th e Purchase Order shall remain 
in effect so long as Supplier possesses Customer Furnished Property.  
(D) Supplier shall ensure that the Customer Furnished Property does not become the subject of any lien, tax, 
charge, duty, encumbrance, defect or other impediment of the same or any other kind, and, without limiting any of 
its other obligations Supplier hereby indemnifies Customer in full against all costs, expenses and damages, 
including taxes, that Customer incurs or suffers, whether directly or indirectly, arising as a result of breach of this 
Section 6( D). 
(E) Upon written notice from Customer, or expiration or termination of the Purchase Order (whichever first 
occurs), Supplier shall  make available, return to Customer or dispose of Customer Furnished Property as Customer 
directs in writing or as otherwise may be set forth in the Purchase Order. Customer reserves the right to abandon 
Customer Furnished Property at no additional cost to  Customer. Upon such direction , termination, or expiration, 
unless otherwise set forth in the Purchase Order or specified in such notice, Supplier shall package the Customer 
Furnished Property  suitable for vehicular transport.  Supplier shall make the Cust omer Furnished Property available 
for pickup by Customer at the Supplier’s facility where present within ten (10) days after such written notice, which 
will constitute Supplier’s delivery of the Customer Furnished Property  to Customer. Customer will arrang e for and 
bear the cost of loading the Customer Furnished Property at the Supplier’s facility and transporting the Customer 
Furnished Property from the Supplier’s facility to the designated Customer location.  If Supplier fails to make the 
Customer Furnished Property available then, without limiting any of Customer’s rights or remedies (i)  Supplier shall, 
upon written demand from Customer pay Customer any expenses in cluding without limitation legal costs incurred 
by Customer in tracing and recovering possession of the Customer Furnished Property, including the costs to seek 
and obtain an injunction or other writ to enter and remove said Customer Furnished Property fro m Supplier’s or its 
Representative ’s premises with respect to which Supplier consents and agrees not to contest or defend.  
7. Packaging . 
(A) Except where the Purchase Order includes alternative requirements, Supplier shall be responsible for packaging 
Goods, and the clear and conspicuous marking of Goods and packaging, in accordance with Applicable Law, industry 
standards and in a manner sufficient to permit  efficient handling,  to provide adequa te protection and  comply wi th 
requiremen ts of carrier and Applicable Law.  
(B) Packing slips iden tifying the Purchase Order  number  and part number  must accompany  each shipmen t. The 
exterior of each shipping container or package will be clearly marked with Customer’s Purchase Order number and 
country of origin, which shall also be marked on Goods, and any specified packaging/marking requirements stated in the 
Purchase Order, in a clear, conspicuous and permanent manner.  Supplier shall provide all necessary shipping 
documents, including, but not limited to, customs invoices and packing lists in accordance with Customer’s requirements 
and Applicable Law.  Damages and  costs incurred  by Customer, its Representative or end user re sulting from Supplier or 
its Representative’s failure to comply with this Section shall be paid by Supplier. If Supplier uses wood packaging 
materials for cargo that will cross international borders, then Suppl ier warrants that (a) it shall meet all of the 
requirements of United States Code of Federal Regulations (“CFR”) 7 CFR §319.40 -3(b)(1) and CFR §319.40 -3(b)(2) 
and (b) such wood packaging materials shall be International Standards for Phytosanitary Measures  Number 15 ( ISPM  
15) compliant and properly marked . 
8. Intellectual Property . 
(A) Background Ownership: Each Party shall retain all right, title and interest it may have with respect to Items 
acquired or developed before the effective date or independently of th e Purchase Order.  “Items” means ideas, 
inventions, discoveries, processes, methods, designs, know -how, strategies, techniques, formulas, models, instructions, 
specifications, technical information, computer programs including software (in source and object  code forms), firmware 
and related operating instructions and documentation, trademarks, service marks, and works of authorship of all kinds, 
including notes, reports, memoranda, writings, plans, outlines, research, data, figures, descriptions, drawings, d iagrams, 
charts, sketches, patterns, compilations, lists, surveys, interview guides, and recordings in any form or medium and 
whether or not patentable or copyrightable.  
(B) Foreground Ownership:  As between the Parties, Customer shall be the sole owner of and shall have all right, 
title and interest in all Work Product, including all related copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights, inclu ding 
without limitation, any derivative works, or inventions or trademarks relating to existing intellectual property.  “ Work 
Product” means all Items and any other work product conceived, created, developed, produced, prepared, collected, 
compiled or generated by Supplier, its Affiliates or Representatives in connection with performing the Services or 
producing the Goods including but not limited to modifications and improvements thereto. Supplier shall not cause or 
permit any Work Product to be subject to any lien or encumbrance.  Supplier hereby, irrevocably, in perpetuity and 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
5 without further consideration, ass igns to Customer all right, title and interest that Supplier, its Affiliates and/or 
Representatives has or may have in the future anywhere in the world in all Work Product.  
(C) Works made for Hire:   Customer will be considered the “person for whom the work was  prepared” for purposes 
of determining the authorship of any copyright in Work Product, and all copyrightable aspects of Work Product will 
constitute “works made for hire” as that term is defined under Section 101 of the U.S. Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. § 101 , as 
amended (“Copyright Act”), or analogous provisions under other Applicable Laws, and will be owned exclusively by 
Customer upon creation.  If (and to the extent) any of the foregoing (or any part or element thereof) is found as a matter 
of law not to b e a “work made for hire” under Applicable Laws, Supplier hereby irrevocably, in perpetuity and without 
further consideration, assigns to Customer (its successors and assigns) all right, title and interest that Supplier has or 
may have in the future in and to all United States and foreign copyrights in Work Product and all copies thereof.  
(D) Disclosure; Further Assurances:   Supplier shall disclose and describe all Work Product to Customer and, 
promptly upon Customer’s request, provide any requested information or documentation related to Work Product.  Upon 
Customer’s request, Supplier will execute and deliver to them all documents and provide all testimony necessary to 
register and enforce intellectual property rights in Work Product solely in the name of Custo mer (or its designee).  
Supplier irrevocably designates and appoints Customer (or its designee) and its legal representatives and nominees, as 
Supplier’s agent and attorney -in-fact to prosecute and enforce any applications and intellectual property rights as to Work 
Product.  
(E) Background License:  Supplier hereby grants to Customer and its end user(s), a non -exclusive, freely 
transferable, royalty -free, fully paid -up, worldwide, license in and to, all Items owned or licensed by Supplier which are 
necessary for  the use and enjoyment by Customer and its end user(s) of Goods/Services and Work Product hereunder.  
(F) Third -Party Intellectual Property:  Supplier shall not embed or incorporate any third -party intellectual property  into 
Goods/Services without (i) Customer’s written consent and (ii) Supplier providing to Customer and/or its end users a list 
of third -party intellectual property (contained within or necessary to use Goods/Services), together with royalty -free, paid -
up licenses to Customer, its Affiliates and its or their end user(s).   Any such license shall include a perpetual software 
license for software used in or required for the operation of Goods/Services, including but not limited to all modifications 
or addition s to software, as well as related documentation and technical information.  Any software maintenance or 
support service shall be the subject of an Exhibit to the Purchase Order.  
9. Indemnification .   
(A) Supplier shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Customer , its Affiliates, and their Representatives and 
assigns from and against all claims, suits, causes of action, losses, liabilities, liens, damages, assessments, costs, 
expenses, demands, complaints or actions including but not limited to reasonable attorney s’ fees and court costs 
(collectively “Claims”) concerning (i) death, personal injury, or property damage arising or resulting from (a) Supplier or i ts 
Representative’s negligence or willful misconduct, or (b) the Goods/Services furnished hereunder; (ii) n onpayment of 
wages, benefits, fees, amounts owed, and/or any taxes (including penalties and interest) associated therewith arising 
from Supplier’s Representatives, suppliers, contractors, and/or materialmen which may include liens or encumbrances on 
the Go ods/Services or the premises on which located; (iii) a challenge to title to the Goods/Services ; (iv) infringement or 
misappropriation of any third -party’s intellectual property rights in connection with  the Purchase Order or Customer’s, its 
Representatives or Customer’s end user’s use of the Goods/Services; (v) violation of Applicable Law; (vi) damage or loss 
to, or arising out of, or resulting from  Customer Furnished Property; (vii) breach of the Siemens  Energy Data Privacy 
Requirements for Personal Information, if applicable; or (viii) breach of th e Purchase Order by Supplier or its Affiliate(s) or 
Representative(s).  
(B) If Customer receives written no tice of a Claim, Customer shall give prompt written notice to Supplier. 
Customer’s delay or deficiency in notifying Supplier shall not relieve Supplier of liability or obligation unless such delay 
materially impacts the defense of the Claim. If the settlem ent of a Claim may result in ongoing liability to or detrimentally 
impacts Customer, its Affiliates, Representatives or end users, then such settlement shall require the prior written 
consent of Customer. Customer may have its own counsel at Customer’s cos t at all related proceedings.  
(C) In case either Party reasonably believes the Goods/Services, or any part thereof, may be the subject of an 
intellectual property Claim, Supplier shall at its own expense: (a) procure Customer, its Representatives and/or end 
user’s right to continue using the Goods/Services; (b) replace with substantially equivalent non -infringing Goods/Services; 
or (c) modify the Goods/Services in compliance with Applicable Laws so it becomes non -infringing.  
(D) Supplier expressly and specifically waives its immunity under applicable workers’ compensation and/or industrial 
insurance laws regarding liability against Customer, its Affiliates or its or their end users for Claims brought by Supplier’ s 
employees against any of them.  
10. Confidentiality . 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
6 (A)  “Confidential Information” shall mean any proprietary, business, financial, or technical information of Customer, 
received by Supplier under the Purchase Order in hard copy, electronic format, verbal, visual or any other form, marked 
or unmarked,  (including copies or restatements thereof) relating to, without limitation, the intellectual property, know -how, 
Items,  businesses, operations, finances, pricing, forecasts, projections, analyses, systems, user identification numbers or 
passwords of Customer , and/or commercial, marketing, research and development, or other plans and strategies, end 
user and/or vendor information , which is furnished or revealed by Customer to Supplier and described or identified at the 
time of disclosure as being confident ial or proprietary, or alternatively, whose confidential or proprietary nature is 
apparent from the context of the disclosure or the contents or nature of the information disclosed.  The Purchase Order 
shall be deemed Confidential Information of Customer.   
(B)  Obligation of Confidentiality and Limited Use:  Supplier will use Confidential Information only to perform its 
obligations under the Purchase Order. Supplier shall not use Confidential Information for any other purpose. Supplier will 
prevent the discl osure and protect the confidentiality of the Confidential Information both during and after the term of the 
Purchase Order by using the same means it uses to protect its own confidential information, but in any event no less than 
reasonable means. Supplier  will not use Confidential Information for the benefit of, or transmit or disclose Confidential 
Information to any third party without first obtaining the express written consent of Customer, but in no event to a direct 
competitor of Customer. Supplier sha ll not copy, distribute or disclose Confidential Information except to those of its 
Representatives who have a need to know such Confidential Information as required to perform its obligations under the 
Purchase Order, provided that such Representatives ar e advised of and agree in writing to abide by the confidentiality 
obligations set forth herein or by confidentiality obligations (including those within employment agreements) that are at 
least as restrictive as those set forth herein. A Supplier shall not  reverse engineer (to include: measure, conduct multi -
dimensional scan/print), disassemble or decompose any prototypes, software or other tangible objects which embody 
Confidential Information. A Supplier shall not use Confidential Information to produce m arketing materials, engage in 
sales activities or generate revenue without express written approval of Customer.  Compliance by Representatives with 
the confidentiality and use obligations in the Purchase Order will remain the responsibility of Supplier, a nd both Supplier 
and its Representatives shall be liable for any breach of the Purchase Order by Representatives.  Each Supplier shall 
take all reasonable steps to prevent or halt unauthorized use or disclosure of Confidential Information by or through its elf 
or its Representatives. Supplier will not make or issue, or cause to be made or issued, any announcement or statement 
regarding activities under the Purchase Order, for dissemination to the general public or any third party without the prior 
written co nsent of Customer.  
(C)  Disclosure s Required by Law:  In the event Supplier is required by a court or federal, state  or local agency to 
disclose Confidential Information, Supplier shall promptly notify Customer of such order so that Customer may seek a 
protective order or take any other action as it deems appropriate.  In such circumstances, the Supplier shall exercise all 
reasonable efforts to disclose only the minimal amount of Confidential Information required to satisfy such order.  
(D)  Exclusions:  Confidential Information will not include any information or data if Supplier can show that such 
information: (i) was or  becomes generally available to the public through no breach of the Purchase Order by Supplier or 
its Representatives; (ii) was rightfully in Supplier's or its Representatives’ possession prior to receipt from Customer; (ii i) 
becomes rightfully available t o Supplier or its Representatives from a source other than Customer who is free to lawfully 
disclose such information to Supplier or its Representatives; (iv) is approved for release by written agreement of 
Customer; or (v) is independently developed by Su pplier or its Representatives, as evidenced by written records, without 
the use of Customer's Confidential Information. Confidential Information shall not be deemed to be in the public domain 
merely because any part of the Confidential Information is embod ied in general disclosures or because individual 
features, components or combinations thereof are known or become known to the public.  
(E)  Return of Confidential Information:  Confidential Information shall remain the property of Customer. Within thirty 
(30) days of receipt of a request from Customer, Supplier will return Customer's Confidential Information, including all 
copies thereof, or certify in writing to Customer that all Confidential Information received under the Purchase Order, 
including all copi es thereof, has been destroyed.  
(F)  Remedies:  Any violation of the Purchase Order by Supplier may cause irreparable harm to Customer.  The 
Parties agree that upon any actual or threatened violation of this Section by Supplier, Customer is entitled to seek 
preliminary and other injunctive relief against such violation, in addition to any other rights or remedies which Customer 
may have at law or in equity, plus reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs incurred in pursuing a breach of this 
Section.  
(G)  Immunity:  An individual who is a Supplier Representative will be immune from liability for the confidential 
disclosure of trade secrets (i) to a governmental agency to report a suspected violation of law or (ii) to a court, if the 
individual complies wit h the Defend Trade Secrets Act, 18 U.S.C. Section 1833(b).  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
7 11. Representations, Warranties and Covenants .  In addition to warranties set forth elsewhere in th e Purchase Order, 
Supplier for itself and on behalf of its Affiliates and Representatives hereby repre sents and warrants for the term of the 
Purchase Order as follows:  
(A) None of Supplier, its Affiliates or Representatives is (i) the target of or designated under any sanctions program 
that is established by statute or regulation of the United States, by Executive Order of the President of the United States, 
or by designations of any department or agency of the United States government including but not limited to those 
designations reflected in the “list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Perso ns” of the Office of Foreign Asset 
Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, or (ii) without limiting subsection (i) above, is debarred, suspended, proposed 
for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in the Purchase Orde r by any United States 
or state or local authority, department or agency;  
(B) Supplier’s Representatives are legally authorized to work in the United States and Supplier shall complete as 
required by Applicable Law the Department of Labor’s Form I -9 and to  retain it for the statutorily designated period and, if 
requested by Customer, Supplier shall provide copies of such Forms I -9 to Customer unless such disclosure shall be 
prohibited by Applicable Law;  
(C) For Services provided at Customer’s, it’s end user  or third -party’s premises, Supplier has examined the worksite in 
order to acquaint itself with the local conditions, including applicable regulations codes, permits, licenses, registrations,  
environmental standards, and notification requirements concerning site safety and/or security;  
(D) Supplier has not and will not, absent prior written approval from Customer, take any actions that: (i) create, or 
purport to create, any obligation on behalf of Customer, or (ii) grant, or purport to grant, any rights or immunities to any 
third-party under C ustomer’s intellectual property or proprietary rights ; and  
(E) Supplier, its Affiliates and Representatives shall comply with the requirements of Section 20(C) below.  
12. Environment, Health and Safety .  
(A) Supplier and its Representati ves shall, in addition to other obligations set forth in th e Purchase Order (i) comply 
with Applicable Laws concerning health, the environment, safety, or pertaining to or regulating pollutants, contaminants, 
or hazardous, toxic or radioactive substances, mat erials or wastes, including without limitation the handling, 
transportation and disposal thereof, or governing or regulating the health and safety of personnel, including but not limited  
to the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, the Resource Conse rvation and Recovery Act, and the Toxic 
Substance Control Act (“TSCA”), as amended (collectively referred to as “EHS Laws”) (pollutants, contaminants, 
substances, materials or wastes as defined under EHS Laws shall be referred to collectively as “Hazardous  Materials”); 
(ii) ensure that Goods/Services  comply at all times  with EHS Laws, (iii) mitigate hazards to the environment and to the 
health and safety of persons, (iv) ensure the Goods/Services, and any and all parts, components, or material thereof, 
bear all markings, labels, warnings, notices or other information required under applicable EHS Laws, (v) select and use 
only equipment, including but not limited to personal protection equipment, that comports with EHS Laws, train its 
Representatives in the  use of such equipment in a safe and lawful manner, and maintain such equipment in good working 
order at all times, (vi) afford Customer and/or its Representatives access to all records pertaining to environmental, health  
and safety matters, in any form, p ursuant to Customer’s audit rights herein, (vii) immediately notify Customer of any 
incident involving death, injury or damage to any person or property in connection with the Purchase Order, (viii) upon 
Customer’s request, conduct an incident investigatio n or support such investigation (at Supplier’s expense) conducted by 
Customer, (ix) notify Customer, its end user and/or its or their Representatives of any solid or hazardous waste (as so 
defined under EHS Laws) generated in the course of Supplier or its Representative’s providing Goods/Services at a Work 
Site (as defined below) and (x) comply with the substance declarations and other requirements set forth in Exhibit A . 
(B) Where the Purchase Order includes the presence of Supplier or its Representatives on the premises of 
Customer, Customer’s end user, or any other location other than the premises of Supplier (“Work Site”), Supplier shall: 
(1) be solely responsible for the safety, health, medical surveillance, industrial hygiene, training and all other ma tters 
relating to safety and health of its Representatives at the Work Site, (2) appoint a competent person as its representative 
for environmental, health and safety who shall take part in safety discussions with Customer, its Representatives, end 
user, o r the owner of the Work Site, (3)  be solely responsible for the handling, use, transportation and disposal of any 
and all substances regulated under the EHS Laws which Supplier or its Representatives bring onto the Work Site or 
generate in the performance  of the Purchase Order, including but not limited to excess, waste or residue, containers or 
any of such substances not consumed, and for any spills, releases or discharges of such substances, strictly in 
accordance with EHS Laws, and (4) ensure Supplier’s   Representatives participate in any site -specific safety training and 
comply with all rules and requirements of Customer, its end user, or such other owner of the Work Site.  
(C)  Prior to commencing any Services at a Work Site, Supplier shall, in accordance with EHS Laws provide and 
comply with a site -specific health and safety plan, Work Site requirements, and shall make the same available to 
Customer or its Representatives a t Customer’s request. If Supplier fails to comply with this Section, Customer may, at its 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
8 sole option and without limiting its other rights, order Supplier or its Representatives to cease Services until Supplier 
complies at Supplier’s sole cost and expense .  If Supplier is unable or refuses to take corrective action hereunder 
Customer may contract with a third -party or otherwise continue such Services at the Work Site and charge Supplier 
excess cost caused to Customer.   Customer shall have the right, at it s sole discretion, to remove Supplier or its 
Representatives from a Work Site for violation of this Section, EHS Laws, or requirements applicable to the Good or 
Services.  
(D) Supplier warrants that every chemical substance or material sold, transferred or delivered under th e Purchase 
Order, including any chemical substance that is or is contained in any Goods/Services, shall, at the time of sale, transfer 
or delivery, be (1) on the list of chemical substances published by the Administrator of the U.S. Envir onmental Protection 
Agency pursuant to TSCA, otherwise known as the TSCA Inventory, or (2) exempted from such list under 40 CFR 
720.30 -38, and (3) able to be lawfully and safely used and transported in any jurisdiction to or through which such  Goods 
will likely be shipped.  Without limiting its other obligations, Supplier shall comply with Section 13 of TSCA, including 
without limitation requirements that importers certify that such substance or material is either in compliance with TSCA 
(positive certific ation) or are not subject to TSCA (negative certification) before importing a chemical substance, mixture 
or article containing a chemical substance or mixture into the USA.   
13. Termination . 
(A) Customer may suspend or terminate for its convenience th e Purch ase Order upon written notice to Supplier and, 
upon receipt of notice, Supplier and its Representatives shall, in addition to complying with the requirements of such 
notice, immediately (i) stop production and delivery of all Goods/Services, (ii) accept no  orders for Goods/Services and 
(iii) protect all Goods/Services under Supplier’s control in which Customer may have a full/partial interest. In the event of  
a suspension, Supplier shall not resume until the suspension terminates as set forth in Customer’s notice.  For a 
terminated Purchase Order, Supplier will provide Customer with written evidence of any costs, if any, Supplier incurred 
resulting from the termination for convenience within thirty (30) days from the effective date of termination. If the Par ties 
are unable to agree on compensation for such termination, Supplier shall be paid a reasonable termination charge 
consisting of a percentage of the Purchase Order price reflecting the percentage of work performed prior to the notice of 
termination plus  the actual direct costs resulting from termination, with such total amount not to exceed the Purchase 
Order price.  
(B) Without limiting any other termination rights of the Customer set forth in these Terms, a Party may terminate th e 
Purchase Order for ca use upon thirty (30) days prior written notice in the event the other Party hereto (“Non -Terminating 
Party”) (i) materially breaches th e Purchase Order and fails to cure the breach within this thirty (30) day period  or (ii) 
becomes insolvent, ceases busin ess as a going concern, becomes unable to pay its debts generally as they become 
due; has a petition for an order for relief under the bankruptcy/insolvency laws or for reorganization, composition, 
adjustment or other relief of debtors, makes an assignment  for the benefit of creditors, has a receiver or liquidator 
appointed for such Non -Terminating Party or a court of competent jurisdiction orders the winding up or liquidation of the 
affairs of the Non -Terminating Party.  
(C) Th e Purchase Order may be termi nated by Customer without penalty immediately upon written notice to 
Supplier if Supplier or its Representatives violate any EHS Laws or Trade Regulations.  
(D) Without limiting Customer’s other rights or remedies, if Customer terminates th e Purchase Order under (B) or 
(C) hereof, (i) Supplier shall immediately perform its obligations in (A)(i) through (iii) hereof, (ii) Customer may procure 
Goods/Services from alternative sources without obligation to Supplier, (iii) Supplier shall pay Custo mer any additional 
costs incurred for re -procured Goods/Services and (iv) Customer or its Representatives may enter upon Supplier’s 
premises during business hours to take possession of and remove Customer Furnished Property and Goods to which title 
has pas sed to Customer. Regardless of the reason for termination, Customer's total liability to Supplier related to such 
termination shall not exceed the Purchase Order price of the Goods/Services to which such termination applies.    
14. Open  Source  Software . Suppli er shall inform Customer no later than five (5) days following receipt of the Purchase 
Order, whether the Goods/Services include “Open Source Software” and identify all third -party software included in the 
Goods or Services.   As used herein “Open Source S oftware” means any software that is licensed royalty -free (i.e., fees 
for exercising the licensed rights are prohibited, whereas fees for reimbursement of costs incurred by licensor are 
generally permitted) under any license terms or other contract terms ( “Open License Terms”) which require, as a 
condition of modification and/or distribution of such software and/ or any other software incorporated into, derived from or 
distributed with such software (“Derivative Software”), either of the following:  (i) tha t the source code of such Software 
and/or any Derivative Software be made available to third parties; or (ii) that permission for creating derivative works of 
such Software and/or any Derivative Software be granted to third parties.  If  Open Source Softwa re is included, Supplier 
shall deliver to Customer, not later than the date of order confirmation, (i) a schedule of all Open Source Software files 
used, indicating the relevant license and including a copy of the complete text of such license; (ii) the so urce code of the 
Open Source Software; and (iii) a written declaration that Customer’s intended use of the Open Source Software will not 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
9 be subject to a “Copyleft Effect”  which means the Open License Terms require that certain of the Supplier's products, as 
well as products derived thereby, may only be distributed further in accordance with the terms of the Open License 
Terms. Should Supplier not inform Customer of Open Source Software or otherwise breach this Section, it shall be a 
material breach and Sup plier shall indemnify and defend Customer, its Representatives and Customer’s end user (s) from 
all Claims arising from such breach, and Customer shall be entitled to cancel the Purchase Order without penalty.  
15. Export Control and Trade Regulations .  
(A)  For all Goods to be delivered and Services to be provided according to th e Purchase Order, Supplier shall 
comply with all applicable export control, customs  and trade regulations (“Trade Regulations”) and shall obtain all 
necessary export licenses, unless Customer or any party other than Supplier is required to apply for the export licenses 
pursuant to the applicable Trade Regulations. In particular, Supplier  represents and warrants that none of its Products 
nor its Services provided under the Purchase Order contain products and/or services restricted for import under the 
Trade Regulations which, in any case, include the Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/ 2014, 2022/263 or 765/2006, 
each as amended, and import restrictions enforced by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.  At the request of 
Customer, Supplier shall provide in writing, not later than three (3) days of request, the necessary information req uired to 
comply with the applicable Trade Regulations; including re -export limitations in case of resale. To the extent Supplier is 
requested to deliver Goods/Services regulated under the Arms Export Control Act or the Atomic Energy Act, Supplier 
shall adv ise Customer in advance of order or contract acceptance.  Regardless, and upon delivery, Supplier shall provide 
Customer for each Good and Service delivered the following trade data as applicable: (i) “Export Control Classification 
Number“ according to the  U.S. Commerce Control List (ECCN) or the Munitions List Category Designation according to 
the US Internati onal Traffic in Arms Regulations, and all other  export control list numbers;(ii) the statistical commodity 
code according to the current commodity c lassification for foreign trade statistics and the HS (Harmonized System) 
coding; (iii) the country of origin (non -preferential origin); and (iv) Supplier’s declaration for preferential origin (in case of 
European suppliers) or preferential certificates (i n case of non -European suppliers).  Supplier shall be liable for any 
expenses and/or damage incurred by Customer due to any breach of its obligations under this Section. In the event 
Supplier has knowledge of any alterations to origin and/or characteristic s of the Goods/Services and/or to the applicable 
Trade Regulations, it shall notify the Customer not later than three (3) days after discovery. Supplier shall be liable for 
any expenses and/or damages incurred by Customer due to the lack of or inaccuracy o f said export control and foreign 
trade data.  Customer shall not be obligated to fulfill this agreement if such fulfillment is prevented by any impediments 
arising out of national or international foreign trade or customs requirements or any embargoes or other sanctions.   
(B)  Supplier and its Representatives (including but not limited to distributors, re -Suppliers, and freight forwarders) 
shall ensure that Goods meeting the definition of “Hazardous Materials”, “hazardous goods”, “dangerous goods” or 
“hazardo us chemical substances” under Applicable Laws are packaged, labeled, stored, used, handled and transported  
as required by such laws.  
16. C-TPAT and Security in the Supply Chain . Supplier, its Affiliates and Representatives, when providing Goods/Services to 
the Customer internationally, shall support the efforts of the Customer regarding security in the supply chain, as directed by  
the World Customs Organization SAFE Framework of Standards, US Customs & Border Protection C -TPAT standards or 
any other applicabl e customs trade security programs (e.g. AEO). Upon request, Supplier agrees to provide Customer’s 
declaration on security in the supply chain or other documentation recognizing Supplier’s participation in a national customs  
supply chain security program.  The Supplier agrees to allow Customer or a Representative to reasonably verify adherence 
to the declaration’s statements including to on -site inspections. If Customer has identified that Supplier has not fulfilled 
obligations set forth in this Section, the  Parties shall mutually agree on a remediation plan. If Supplier fails to comply with a 
mutually agreed remediation plan, the Customer may terminate th e Purchase Order without liability. Supplier, its Affiliates 
and Representatives shall, if applicable, co mply with United States Importer Security Filing (ISF) requirements, also known 
as 10+2, which requires Supplier to submit specific information for all its ocean shipments destined for US ports pursuant to  
US Customs Border Protection (CBP) regulations. If  Supplier, its Affiliates or Representatives fail to provide complete and 
accurate information to the ISF filing agent identified by Customer pursuant to CBP regulations, such failure may result in 
delays, detention of the cargo or of the ocean vessel, or liquidated damages charged by US Customs Border Protection.  
17. Siemens  Energy Code of Conduct . Supplier shall comply with the principles and requirements of the " Siemens  Energy  
Code of Conduct for Siemens  Energy Suppliers and Third -Party Intermediaries" attached hereto as Exhibit B  (hereinafter 
the “Code of Conduct”). If and as requested by Customer, Supplier shall not more than once a year (at its option) provide 
to Customer either (A) a written self -assessment in the form provided by Customer or (B) a written report approved by 
Customer describing the actions taken or to be taken by Supplier to assure compliance with the Code of Conduct.  In 
addition to any other rights and remedies Customer may have, in the event of (i) Supplier's material or repeated failure to 
comply with the Code of Conduct or (ii) Supplier's denial of Customer’s right of inspection as provided for in the Purchase 
Order, after providing Supplier reasonable notice and a reasonable opportunity to remedy, Customer m ay terminate th e 
Purchase Order without any liability whatsoever. Material failures include, but are not limited to, incidents of child labor,  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
10 corruption and bribery, and failure to comply with environmental protection requirements. The notice and remedy 
provisions herein shall not apply to material failures set forth in the preceding sentence.  
18. Force Majeure .  A Party shall notify the other Party hereto in writing within twenty -four (24) hours of the knowledge of 
and/or occurrence of a Force Majeure event a nd neither Party shall be considered to be in default of th e Purchase Order if 
and to the extent that its failure or delay in performance is actually caused by Force Majeure.  “Force Majeure” means acts o f 
God or nature, acts of civil or military authority , fires, floods, epidemic, war, or like occurrences that are beyond the control 
and without the fault of either Party. Strikes or other labor troubles involving a Party or its Representatives shall not con stitute 
Force Majeure. A Party shall use commercial ly reasonable efforts to mitigate the effect of such Force Majeure and relief 
granted to the Party experiencing Force Majeure shall be limited to an extension of the time of performance.  If Supplier 
experiences a Force Majeure Event for more than ninety ( 90) days, Customer shall have the right to terminate the Purchase 
Order and is entitled to a refund of all monies paid to Supplier subject to costs approved in advance by Customer in writing.   
19. Compliance with Laws . Supplier and its Representatives shall co mply with all applicable laws and regulations, including 
but not limited to Sections 6, 7 and 12 of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, and  regulations and orders of the United 
States Department of Labor issued under Section 14 thereof (collectively the “FLSA”),  as well as all other laws relating to 
those relating to the manufacture, purchase, resale, exportation, transfer, assignment or use of the Goods and/or Services 
(“Applicable Laws”). In addition, Supplier shall obtain all required licenses, per mits, authorizations, registrations or approvals 
required with respect to  the provision of Goods and/or performance of Services hereunder.   
20. General . 
(A) Software Maintenance/Support . If Supplier provides software maintenance or support service, such service shall 
be the subject of an Exhibit.   
 
(B) Audit .  Customer, its Affiliate(s) or Representative(s) may conduct audit(s) of Supplier.  Supplier and its 
Representatives shall mainta in accurate and complete records (“Records”) which are reasonably sufficient to determine 
Supplier’s compliance with the Purchase Order.  Such Records shall be kept in accordance with recognized commercial 
accounting practices and, except where a longer re tention period may be provided in th e Purchase Order, shall be 
retained by Supplier for a minimum of seven (7) years after the later of the (i) last delivery of Goods/Services or (ii) 
expiration of the Term of th e Purchase Order.  Such audits shall be cond ucted with reasonable prior notice to Supplier.  
In connection with such audit(s), Supplier shall reasonably make available, during normal business hours, personnel 
familiar with the Records.     
(C) Cybersecurity and Data Privacy Requirements .  Supplier an d its Representatives shall comply with the (i) 
Siemens  Energy Cybersecurity Requirements (“Cybersecurity Requirements”) set forth in Exhibit C  and (ii) Siemens  
Energy Data Privacy Requirements for Personal Information (“Data Privacy Requirements”) set forth in Exhibit D  in the 
event Supplier handles Personal Information (as defined in Exhibit D ) of Customer and/or its parent, subsidiaries, 
Affiliates, Customer’s end use r or Representatives in connection with th e Purchase Order.  In addition to the audit rights 
in Section 20(B), Customer, its Affiliate or Representative(s) may conduct audit(s) of Supplier, its Affiliates’ and 
Representatives’ compliance with the Siemens  Energy Code of Conduct and/or the Siemens Energy Data Privacy 
Requirements on no less than forty -eight (48) hours prior notice to Supplier.  This right shall apply to Supplier’s facilities 
and Supplier’s third -party data centers and vendors.  Supplier’s fai lure to comply with and/or remediate any such 
noncompliance with the Cybersecurity Requirements and/or Data Privacy Requirements shall be a material breach of th e 
Purchase Order and, in addition to other remedies, Customer shall be permitted to immediately  terminate th e Purchase 
Order without penalty.  
(D) Insurance and Expenses .  Supplier and its Representatives shall comply with the insurance requirements set 
forth in Exhibit E  attached hereto. Neither Supplier nor its Representatives shall incur any expen se unless it has been 
authorized in advance by Customer.  
(E) Assignment; Successors .  Supplier shall not assign all or part of th e Purchase Order, or transfer any rights or 
obligations hereunder, without the prior written consent of Customer . Customer  may assign (i) its rights and obligations  
hereunder , without recourse or consent  of Supplier , to any party, including without limitation a Customer subsidiary, Affiliate or 
Affiliate’s successor organization (whether as a result of reorganization,  restructuring or sale of substantially all of Customer’s 
assets ) and (ii) the Purchase Order, in whole or in part, to any party, including without limitation any Customer subsidiary, 
Affiliate, or Customer’s customer/end user.  
(F) Subcontracting .  Supplier shall be solely responsible for the proper selection, supervision, acts and omissions of 
its Affiliates and Representatives.  
(G) Other Terms and Amendments . The terms and conditions contained in any sales order, acknowledgment, 
invoice, website, l etter, writing, software or file (such as “clickwrap”, “shrink -wrap”, or website terms of use), or other 
document or medium shall not be applicable or amend th e Purchase Order nor bind the Parties hereto or their Affiliates 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
11 or Representatives. Th e Purchase  Order, including these Terms, may only be amended by a change order or 
amendment pursuant to Section 1B.  
(H)  Government Contracts .  When the Goods/Services are to be used in the performance of a contract or 
subcontract with a governmental authority, app licable government contract requirements attached to th e Purchase Order 
shall apply and are incorporated herein by reference.   
(I) Set-Off.  Customer shall have the right to set -off and deduct from Supplier’s invoice(s) related to th e Purchase 
Order any amount(s) owed by Supplier to Customer.  
(J)  Relationship of the Parties . Supplier, its Affiliates and Representatives are independent contractors of Customer  
and nothing herein shall be construed as creating any other relationship.  
(K)  Governing Law/Jurisdiction and Dispute Resolution .  All matters arising out of or in connection with th e 
Purchase Order, including the construction and interpretation thereof, shall be governed by the federal laws, rules, 
regulations and executive orders of the United States and the laws of the State of Florida without regard to conflicts of 
laws principles. The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the I nternational Sale of Goods is 
expressly excluded.  Any action or proceeding filed by Supplier against Customer  under or in connection with the Purchase 
Order shall be filed exclusively in the state or federal courts in Orlando, Florida, which shall then have exclusive jurisdic tion, 
and Supplier submits to the personal jurisdiction of such courts for the purpose of litigating any claims or disputes. EACH 
PARTY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL IN ANY ACTION 
OR PROCEEDING RELATED IN ANY WAY TO TH E PURCHASE ORDER .  Notwithstanding the preceding, Customer 
may seek and obtain injunc tive relief as set forth in Section 10(F) hereof, or to protect its Confidential Information, trade 
secrets, patents, copyrights or other intellectual property in any court of competent jurisdiction anywhere situated.   
(L)  Publicity .  Supplier  shall in n o event refer to or use, or permit any persons to refer to or use, Customer’s name, 
trademarks, service marks or logos in any advertising, promotional materials, press releases or other publicity, or identify 
to any third -party that it is a supplier to or has any contractual or any other relationship with Customer without obtaining 
the prior written consent of Customer in each case.   
(M)  Non-Waiver .  Failure of any Party to enforce its rights under th e Purchase Order shall not constitute a waiver of 
such rights or of any other right under th e Purchase Order or Applicable Law.  
(N)  Severability .  If any provision of th e Purchase Order is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining 
provisions w ill not in any way be affected or impaired. A court may modify the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision to 
reflect, as closely as possible, the Parties’ original intent.  
(O)  Survival .  The Confidentiality, Indemnification, Warranty, Intellectual Pr operty, Title and Risk of Loss, 
Termination, Export Control and Trade Regulations, General Provisions and any provision, which contemplates 
performance or observance subsequent to termination or expiration shall survive termination or expiration of th e 
Purchase Order.  
(P) Affirmative Action . Supplier shall comply with Customer’s requirements as promulgated by the U.S. 
Department of Labor, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs set forth in Exhibit F . 
(Q)  Order of Precedence .  In the event of a conflict, am biguity or inconsistency, the following order of precedence 
of the documents relating to the Purchase Order shall apply:  (a) if the Purchase Order is issued under a written purchase 
agreement which has been negotiated between the Parties to govern the Pur chase Order (a “Master Agreement”), then 
the terms of the Master Agreement (including the order of precedence set forth in that Master Agreement); (b) if there is 
no Master Agreement, then (i) an amendment or change order issued by Customer in accordance w ith th e Purchase 
Order , (ii) the Purchase Order form, (iii) the applicable Exhibits to the Purchase Order, and (iv) these Terms.   
(R)  Complete Agreement and Counterparts .  The Purchase Order shall constitute the entire agreement between 
Customer and Supplier and shall supersede all previous communications, representations, agreements or 
understandings, whether oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The hea dings used in th e Purchase 
Order are for reference and shall not limit or affect the meaning or interpretation of any of the terms hereof.  The 
Purchase Order may be executed in one or more counterparts, and when delivered and executed by both Supplier and  
Customer shall constitute a single binding agreement . 
 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
12 Exhibit A  
Substance Declaration  
If Supplier furnishes Goods that are subject to restrictions, rules or regulations for Hazardous Materials or other substance s 
comprising, part of or contained in such Goods, including but not limited to statutes, rules, regulations, codes, rules, 
standards and requirements of (1) EHS Laws, (2) governing, controlling or regulating Hazardous Materials, including but not 
limited to the Restriction on the Use of  Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipm ent (hereinafter 
“RoHS ”), Directives 2002/96/EC and 2012/19/EU as well as their respective incorporation into EU member states’ legislation 
including any amendments thereto (hereinafter “ WEEE ”), (3) the Regulation EC 1907/2006 of the European Parliament an d 
of the Council concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals including any amendment 
thereto (hereinafter “ REACH ”), (4) EC Directive 2006/66/EC on Batteries and Accumulators and Waste Batteries and 
Accumulators and/o r (5) TSCA, without limiting Supplier’s obligations under th e Purchase Order, Supplier shall comply with 
the requirements of this “Substance Declaration”.   
Supplier shall submit to Customer with each Good, the chemical substances contained therein or in t he Service 
deliverable, and/or Material Safety Data Sheets, Safety Data Sheets or other such documentation as required by 
Applicable Laws (including without limitation the OSHA Hazardous Communication Standard 29 CFR 1910.1200 et seq.).  
If Supplier furnis hes Goods that are subject to substance restrictions, rules or regulations including but not limited to those 
identified in this Exhibit, Supplier  shall de clare such substances on the Customer web database BOM check 
(www.BOM check.net) or, only if and approved in writing in advance by Customer,  in another  reasonable  format  provided 
to Customer no  later than first delivery date of the Good s, and Supplier shall prior to Supplier ’s first delivery of 
Goods complete and comply with the Declarable Substances -Form (hereinafter “Substance Declaration”) in the Customer 
supplier portal “ Ariba ” or in hard copy forwarded to Customer.  I n addit ion, for Goods  that are subject to substance 
restrictions, rules or regulations Supplier shall provide ordering en tity with a safety data sheet required in Article 31of the 
Regulation EC 1907/2006 (REACH) and Supplier shall keep this Substance Declaration up to date.  Should  a delivery 
hereunder contain “dangerous  goods” as so classified pursuant to Applicable Laws , Supplier  shall notify  Customer  in 
writing in sufficient detail to identify the Goods, the hazards, and the laws, rules or regulations applicable thereto no lat er 
than three (3) business days after receipt of the Purchase Order.   
  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
13 Exhib it B 
Siemens  Energy  Code of Conduct for Siemens Energy Suppl iers and Third -Party Intermediaries  
This Code of Conduct defines the basic requirements placed on the suppliers and third -party intermediaries of 
Siemens Energy concerning their responsibilities towards their stakeholders and the environment. The supplier 
and/or third -party intermediary declares herewith to:  
 
 
Legal Compliance  
• Comply  with the laws and regulations of the applicable legal systems.   
 
Human Rights and Labor Practices    
To ensure respect of all internationally proclaimed human rights by avoiding causation of and complicity in any 
human rights violations, heightened attention shall be paid to ensuring respect of human rights of specifically 
vulnerable rights holders or gro ups of rights holders such as women, children or migrant workers, or of 
(indigenous) communities.   
➢ Prohibition of Forced Labor   
• Neither use nor contribute to slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labor and human trafficking.   
 
➢ Prohibition of Child La bor   
• Employ no workers under the age of 15 or, in those countries subject to the developing country 
exception of the ILO Convention 138, employ no workers under the age of 14.   
• Employ no workers under the age of 18 for hazardous work according to ILO Con vention 182.  
  
➢ Non-Discrimination and Respect for Employees  
• Promote equal opportunities and treatment of employees, irrespective of skin color, race, nationality, 
ethnicity, political affiliation, social background, disabilities, gender, sexual identity and orientation, 
marital status, religious conviction, or age.    
• Refuse to tolerate any unacceptable treatment of individuals such as mental cruelty, sexual harassment 
or discrimination including gestures, language and physical contact, that is sexual, coercive, threatening, 
abusive or exploitative.  
  
➢ Working Hours,  Wages & Benefits for Employees  
• Recognize the legal rights of workers to form or join existing trade unions  and to engage in collective 
bargaining; neither disadvantage nor prefer members of employee organizations or trade unions.  
• Adhere to all applicabl e working -hours regulations globally.   
• Pay fair wages for labor and adhere to all applicable wage and compensation laws globally.   
• In the event of cross -border personnel deployment adhere to all applicable legal requirements, 
especially with regard to minimum wages.   
  
➢ Health & Safety of Employees  
• Act in accordance with the applicable statutory and international standards regarding occupational 
health and safety and provide safe working conditions.   
• Provide training to ensure employees are educated in health & safety issues.  
• Establish a reasonable occupational health & safety management system¹.   
 
➢ Grievance Mechanism  
• Provide acces s to a protected mechanism for their employees to report possible violations of the 
principles of this Code of Conduct.  
 
Environmental Protection  
• Act in accordance with the applicable statutory and international standards regarding the environment. 
Minim ize environmental pollution and make continuous improvements in environmental protection.  
• Establish a reasonable environmental management system¹.  
  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
14  
Fair Operating Practices  
➢ Anti-Corruption and Bribery   
• Tolerate no form of and do not engage directly or indirectly in any form of corruption or bribery and do 
not grant, offer or promise anything of value to a government official or to a counterparty in the private 
sector to influence official action or obtai n an improper advantage.  This includes to renounce from giving 
or accepting improper facilitation payments.  
  
➢ Fair Competition, Anti -Trust Laws  and Intellectual Property Rights  
• Act in accordance with national and international competition laws and do not participate in price fixing, 
market or customer allocation, market sharing or bid rigging with competitors .  
• Respect the intellectual property rights of others.   
  
➢ Conflicts of Interest  
• Avoid and/or disclose internally and to Siemens  Energy all conflicts  of interest that may influence 
business relationships , and to avoid already the appearance thereof.  
  
➢ Anti-Money Laundering, Terrorism Financing  
• Not directly or indirectly facilitate money laundering or terrorism financing.  
  
➢ Data Privacy and Cybersecurity  
• Process personal data confidentially and responsibly, respect everyone’s  privacy and ensure that 
personal data is effectively protected and used only for legitimate purposes.  
• Commit to have an adequate Cybersecurity management framework established in its organization 
based on good industry practice, to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, integ rity, and availability of 
data, processes, products, systems and services.  
  
➢ Export Control and Customs  
• Comply  with the applicable export control  and customs regulations.  
  
 
Responsible Minerals Sourcing    
• Take reasonable efforts to avoid in its products the use of raw materials which originate from Conflict -
Affected and High -Risk Areas and contribute to human rights abuses, corruption, the financing of armed 
groups or similar negative effects.  
  
 
Supply Chain  
• Use reasonable efforts to make  its suppliers comply with the principles of this Code of Conduct.  
• Comply with the principles of non-discrimination with regard to supplier selection and treatment.  
 
 
 
 
 
1 https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/company/about/supply -chain -management/sustainability -in-the-supply -
chain/code -of-conduct.html   
 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
15 Exhibit C  
SIEMENS  ENERGY CYBERSECURITY REQUIREMENTS  
1. Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and technical measures to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and 
availability of Supplier Operations as well as Goods and Services. These measures shall be consistent with good industry 
practi ce and shall include an appropriate information security management system consistent with standards such as ISO/IEC 
27001 or IEC 62443 and guidelines such as NIST Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, and NIST SP 
800-53 Security a nd Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations  (to the extent applicable).  
2. “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes and systems (including information systems), data (including Customer 
data), personnel, and sites, used or proce ssed by Supplier from time to time in the performance of th e Purchase Order .  
3. Should Goods or Services contain software, firmware, or chipsets:  
(i) Supplier shall implement appropriate standards, processes and methods to prevent, identify, evaluate and repair any 
vulnerabilities, malicious code, and security incidents in Goods and Services which shall be consistent with good 
industry practice and standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable);  
(ii) Supplier shall continue to support a nd provide Services to repair, update, upgrade and maintain Goods and Services 
including the provision of software  patches to Customer remedying vulnerabilities for the reasonable lifetime of the 
Goods and Services;  
(iii) On the date of delivery (a) Supplier sha ll provide  Customer with a “Software Bill of Materials” (“SBOM”) identifying all 
third-party software components contained in the Goods  and (b)  all third-party software shall be up -to-date or capable 
of being fully updated to ensure functionality and cyber security of such software ; 
(iv) Supplier shall notify Customer in writing within a commercially reasonable timeframe prior to any software reach ing 
end-of-life to ensure the functionality and cy bersecurity of the applicable Goods and Services affected by the end -of-
life software ; 
(v) Supplier shall grant to Customer the right, but Customer shall not be obliged, to test or have tested Goods for malicious 
code and vulnerabilities at any time, and shall  adequately support Customer;  
(vi) Supplier shall provide Customer a contact for all cyber security related issues (available during business hours).  
4. Supplier shall promptly and proactively report to Customer all relevant cyber security incidents that have occurred or are 
suspected and all vulnerabilities discovered in any Supplier Operations, Services and Goods, if and to the extent Customer is 
or is likely to be materially affected. For this purpose, Supplier shall publish cybersecurity advisories on their public website or 
promptly notify  Customer’s ProductCERT (see https://new.siemens.com/global/en/products/services/cert.html ). 
5. Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its Representatives  shall, within a reasonable time, be bound by 
obligations similar to the provisions of this Exhibit C.  
6. Upon Customer’s request, Supplier shall provide written evidence of its compliance with this Exhibit C including generally 
accepted audit reports (e.g., SSAE -16 SOC 2 Type II).  
7.  Supplier shall comply with secure  software developme nt practices and methods at a minimum by adhering to current state -of-
the-art secure coding standards and guidelines (e.g. , SAFECode’s Fundamental Practices for Secure Software Development, 
NIST’s Secure Software Development Framework , OWASP standards, or, if applicable , other similar standards).  
 
  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
16 Exhibit D  
SIEMENS  ENERGY DATA PRIVACY REQUIREMENTS FOR PERSONAL INFORMATION  
1. Definitions . 
(a) “Agreement ”, for the purposes of these Data Privacy Requirements (“ Requirements ”), means the Purchase 
Order, and, if applicable, the written purchase agreement which has been negotiated between the Parties to govern the Purchase 
Order.  
(b) “Applicable Data Privacy Laws ” means data privacy, security, and destruction laws that are generally applicable 
to owners of Personal  Information and/or their service providers, including but not limited to laws entitling Data Subjects to 
notification and disclosure about, or rights of access, control, deletion, and correction of, or rights to require consent fo r and the 
ability to opt -into or opt -out of the use of, Personal Information.  
(c) “Data Breach ” means any actual or reasonably suspected access, loss, acquisition, use, modification, or 
disclosure of Personal Information that is either unlawful, not authorized by Customer or this Agreement, unrelated to the Supplier’s 
performance under this Agreement, or would require notification of such event to any third -party pursuant to any applicable law.  
(d) “Encryption ” means the protection of data in electronic or optical form, in sto rage or in transmission, by using an 
algorithmic process to transform data into a form in which the data is rendered unreadable or unusable without use of a confi dential 
process or key, such as by using (i) an encryption technology that has been adopted by  an established standards setting body  (e.g.,  
Federal Information Processing Standards (“FIPS ”) issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology  (“NIST ”)), which 
renders such data indecipherable in the absence of associated cryptographic keys necessary to enable decryptions of such data; 
and (ii) appropriate management and safeguards of cryptographic keys to protect the integrity of the encryption using guideli nes 
promulgated by an established standards setting body  (e.g., NIST) .  
(e) “Personal  Information ” means any information received or collected from, through, at the direction of, or on 
behalf of Customer, its employees, or its customers, which is information that identifies, relates to, describes, is capable of being 
associated with, or co uld reasonably be linked (directly or indirectly) with, or can be used to identify a natural person (each, a “ Data 
Subject ”). 
(f) “Processing ” (including “ Process ” and “Processes” ) means receiving, storing, maintaining, retaining, handling, 
collecting, transferring, transmitting, disclosing, destroying, altering, using, or accessing (include accessing via any Cust omer 
network or system) Personal Information, whether or not by autom atic means, in any form including but not limited to electrical, 
digital, wireless, electromagnetic technology, or written form.  
2. Supplier Obligations . 
(a) Supplier shall and shall cause its Affiliates and their respective Representatives to comply with and Pro cess 
Personal Information in accordance with these Requirements and Applicable Data Privacy Laws. Supplier shall provide 
information and cooperation as Customer may reasonably require in order for Customer to comply with such laws.  
(b) Customer hereby instruc ts Supplier, and Supplier hereby agrees, to Process Personal Information only as 
necessary to perform Supplier’s obligations under this Agreement and for no other purpose.  Supplier may not use the Personal  
Information for its own purposes, nor shall Suppl ier sell, rent, release, disclose, disseminate, make available, transfer, or 
otherwise communicate the Personal Information.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Supplier may use the Personal Information to 
detect data security incidents, or protect against fra udulent or illegal activity, and for internal use to build or improve the quality of 
its Services, provided that the use does not include building or modifying household or consumer profiles to use in providing  
services to another business or correcting or  augmenting data acquired from another source.  
(c) Supplier shall, and shall cause its Affiliates and their respective Representatives, to maintain and implement a 
written data security program that contains administrative, technical, and physical safeguards t o protect Personal Information 
from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, or destruction (“ Security Measures ”), including those necessary 
for Supplier to perform its obligations under this Agreement and comply with Applicable Data Priv acy Laws.  Supplier shall 
provide Customer with copies of and/or information concerning Supplier’s Security Measures, including results of regular 
penetration testing, upon request. Customer shall have the right to conduct onsite inspections and/or audits (at its sole cost upon 
advance notice during normal business hours under the supervision of a representative of Supplier) of the Security Measures, 
and Supplier agrees to cooperate with such inspections or audits. Further, upon Customer’s  request , Supplier  shall provide 
copies of its most recent SSAE -16 SOC2 Type II audit report or other reasonable documentation for examination of Supplier’s 
internal controls and procedure regarding the Security Measures.  
(d) In the event of a Data Breach, Supplier shall (i) n otify Customer immediately of such Data Breach both via its 
normal contact person with Customer for the related service, as well as via email to dataprotection @siemens -energy.com , (ii) 
promptly provide to Customer a detailed description of the incident, the data accessed, the identity of affected Data Subject s, if 
any, and such other information as Customer may reasonably request concerning the Data Breach, (iii) assist Customer i n 
investigating, remedying, and taking any other action Customer deems reasonably necessary regarding such Data Breach and 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
17 any dispute, inquiry or claim that concerns the Data Breach. Supplier shall, at its sole cost and expense, investigate and 
remediate the Data Breach, and assist and cooperate with Customer concerning any legally required notifications or disclosures 
to affected Data Subjects , credit reporting agencies  and/or government authorities.  
(e) Supplier shall defend, indemnify, reimburse, and hold harmless Customer and any of its Affiliates, directors, 
officers, employees and Representatives from and against any claim, demand, cause of action, class action, arbitration, 
judgment, liability, damage, fine, penalty, public relations expenses, governmen t investigation or inquiry, remediation and 
mitigation effort (including but not limited to notification letters, credit monitoring services, identity theft insurance, r eimbursement 
for credit freezes, fraud resolution services, identity restoration servic es, toll free information services for affected Data Subjects , 
and any similar service that entities make available to impacted Data Subjects in the event of an incident), and costs and 
expenses relating thereto (including but not limited to costs of defen se, settlement, adjudication, expert fees, court costs, 
investigation expenses, discovery costs, and reasonable attorneys’ fees, costs and disbursements of legal counsel) arising fr om, 
related to, or in connection with any Data Breach or any other breach o f these Requirements. This indemnity shall not be 
construed to limit Customer’s rights, if any, to common law indemnity.  
(f) Customer shall make the ultimate determination as to whether a Data Breach requires notification to 
individuals, third parties, law en forcement, the media, and/or regulators, and, if so, whether such notifications will be provided by 
Customer or Supplier. If Customer requires that Supplier provide such notifications regarding a Data Breach, any such notices  
must be approved, in advance, by Customer. Customer’s approval shall also be required for the manner of delivering notice of a 
Data Breach.  
(g) Supplier shall not, and shall cause its Affiliates and Representatives to not, transfer any Personal Information 
through an electronic, non -voice transmission to a person outside of the secure system of Supplier unless Supplier uses 
Encryption to ensure the security of such electronic submission.  
(h) Supplier shall mitigate, to the extent practicable and at its cost, any harmful effects from any Data Breach 
(including steps to protect the operating environment). Supplier also shall take prompt steps designed to prevent the recurre nce 
of any Data Breach , including any action required by applicable federal and state laws and regulations.  
 
(i) Supplier shall make itself and any of its Representatives  assisting Supplier in the performance of its obligations 
available to Customer, at no cost, to testify in the event of a Data Breach or other violation of these Requirements that results in 
litigation or administrative proceedings against Customer, its directors, officers, agents or employees.  
(j) Supplier shall not move any data storage device containing Personal Inf ormation beyond the physical controls 
of Supplier, its Affiliates, or their respective Representatives, unless Customer  consents and Encryption is used to ensure the 
security of the Personal Information, and in any event shall notify Customer at least thir ty (30) days prior to any such movement.  
(k) To the extent that Supplier Processes  Personal Information that has been received by Customer (or otherwise) 
from a data controller located in the European Economic Area, Supplier shall ensure - in coordination wit h Customer - an 
adequate level of data protection or appropriate safeguards as required by the European General Data Protection Regulation  
(“GDPR ”) (e.g., Articles 44 through 46) (or any replacement regulation), such as by entering into the EU Model Clauses with 
Customer and/or such data controller.  
(l) If Supplier receives a “request to know” or a “request to delete” (as defined by Applicable Data Privacy Laws) 
from a Data Subject, the Supplier shall either (1) act on Customer’s behalf in responding to t he request and advise Customer 
accordingly, or (2) inform the Data Subject that the request cannot be acted upon because the request has been sent to Suppli er 
instead of Customer.  
(m) Supplier shall return or destroy (at Customer’s election), or cause or arran ge for the return or destruction, of all 
Personal Information, including all originals and copies in any medium and any materials derived from or incorporating such 
Personal Information, upon the earlier of (i) the expiration or earlier termination of this  Agreement; or (ii) the date that the 
Personal Information is no longer reasonably necessary for the Supplier to perform its Services under this Agreement. Supplie r 
shall promptly comply with any request from Customer to delete specified Personal Informati on. 
(n) Supplier shall cause each of its Affiliates and its and their respective Representatives  and permitted 
subcontractors who handle Personal Information to be bound in writing to standards no less stringent than these Requirements.  
(o) Supplier acknowledges and agrees that if any new Applicable Data Privacy Laws that have different 
requirements than those included in this Agreement come into effect during the term of this Agreement, Supplier shall comply 
with such new requirements, and such requirements shall  be deemed to be required by this Agreement.  However, if Supplier 
notifies Customer that any such new requirements are materially different than required by preexisting Applicable Data Privac y 
Laws and that the implementation thereof would materially incr ease Supplier’s costs, then the Parties shall negotiate in good 
faith an amendment to mutually revise the terms of this Agreement to implement those requirements.  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
18 (p) Supplier  waives all rights of subrogation against Customer  and their insurers for damages or claims arising 
hereunder to the extent that such damages or claims are covered by the Supplier’s  insurance or would have been covered but 
for the application of a deductible.  
(q) With respect to Personal Information transferred or otherwise made available to Customer  by Supplier  or by 
any third -party on Supplier’s  behalf in connection with the performance of the Services, including without limitation any Personal 
Information of applicants, candidates, Supplier’s  customers  and any of its Representatives , Suppli er warrants, covenants and 
agrees that:  
i. The Personal Information has been legally obtained; and  
ii. Supplier  has the authority and/or has obtained all necessary consents from the subject individuals required 
under Applicable Data Privacy Laws to enable the Personal Information to be transferred, disclosed, and 
otherwise used by or on behalf of Customer , and proc essed, copied, analyzed, combined, stored, deleted, 
destroyed, transferred or otherwise used by or on behalf of Customer , provided such use by or on behalf of 
Customer  is in accordance with this Agreement or for the purposes of any future business or deali ng with 
Supplier , including developing and/or maintaining relationships with current or prospective customers and 
suppliers.  
(r) If Supplier is to provide temporary workers or contractors who reside in the state of California as part of its 
Services to Custome r, then Supplier shall provide each of the temporary workers or contractors who are assigned with a copy of 
Customer’s  privacy notice addressing the State of California that can be accessed upon request or via the following link:  
https://www. siemens -energy.com/us/en/general/privacy -notice.html .  
3. Supplier hereby certifies that Supplier understands the restrictions contained herein and will comply with them.  Supplier 
understands and agrees on behalf of itself, its Affiliates and its and their respective Representatives that these Requiremen ts 
are an integral part of this Agreement  and, a violation of any of these Requirements shall be considered a material breach by 
Supplier of this Agreement , entitling Customer to remedies, including but not limited to, immediate termination of this Agreement  
without penalty.  
4. If a provision of these Requirements is contrary to a provision of any other agreement between Supplier and Customer 
(including any inconsistencies in defined or capitalized terms), the most stringent provision shall control. The “most string ent 
provision” shall mean the provision that provides the greatest privacy and security pro tection for Personal Information and that 
best permits compliance with Applicable Data Privacy Laws.  
 
  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
19 Exhibit E  
Insurance  
 (A)  Supplier shall, at its sole expense, maintain the types of insurance coverage(s) listed below. The required coverage 
limits fo r each type of insurance listed below shall be the greater of: (i) the coverage limits listed below; or (ii) if the 
Purchase Order requires Supplier to maintain higher limits, then the coverage limits specified in the Purchase 
Order.  Evidence of insurance  required by th e Purchase Order is to be furnished before any Goods/Services is 
commenced.  Supplier and its Representatives shall maintain such insurance in full force and effect during the term 
of the Purchase Order, and, in addition, for as long as Supplier is under any warranty obligations arising out of th e 
Purchase Order.  All insurers on required insurance coverage(s) shall have an A.M. Best Rating of A - /VIII or better.  
Customer and its Affiliat es, and its or their Representatives, Customer’s customer or end user and/or any other 
party designated on the Purchase Order as applicable shall be included as additional insureds with respect to the 
Commercial General Liability and Automobile Liability p olicies/coverage(s).  All insurance certificates shall be in a 
form satisfactory to Customer and shall stipulate that the insurance will not be canceled without at least thirty (30) 
days prior written notice beginning upon the day of receipt of registered mail concerning same by Customer.  
Supplier shall deliver the certificates of insurance, naming Customer and, if requested , Customer’s customer  or end 
user, as the Certificate Holder. All of Supplier’s policies of insurance shall be primary insurance and n oncontributing 
with any other insurance maintained by Customer, Customer’s customer  or end user and/or other parties.  All of 
Supplier’s policies of insurance, except for Worker’s Compensation and Employer’s Liability, shall contain a cross -
liability or se verability of interest clause.  The limits of insurance set forth below may be satisfied by any combination 
of excess and primary insurance coverage. Supplier shall require all its insurers to waive all rights of subrogation 
against Customer, Customer’s cu stomer  or end user, and their respective Affiliates, and Representatives, and any 
other party designated as an additional insured.  
 (B)  Supplier shall maintain the following insurance coverage(s):  
(i)  Worker's Compensation Insurance  in accordance with the statutory requirements of the location in which the 
Purchase Order is performed.  If there is an exposure to injury to Supplier’s employee under the U.S. 
Longshoremen’s and Harbor Worker’s Compensation Act, the Jones Act or under laws, regulations or s tatutes 
applicable to maritime employees, coverage required by law shall be provided for same. Supplier shall maintain 
Worker’s Compensation coverage for personnel involved in the supply of Goods or Services under the Purchase 
Order even if Supplier is sta tutorily exempt from the applicable jurisdiction’s worker’s compensation mandate.  
(ii)  Employer's Liability Insurance with the following limits of liability:  
• $1,000,000 for each occurrence;  
• $1,000,000  policy  aggregate for occupational disease;  
• $1,000,000  each employee  for occupational disease . 
(iii)  Commercial General Liability Insurance , in occurrence coverage form, with minimum limits of $5,000,000 per 
occurrence, including the following coverages:  
• Produc ts and Completed Operations  
• Contractual Liability insuring the indemnity obligations assumed by Supplier under th e Purchase Order  
• Premises/Operations  
• Underground, Undermining, Explosion and Collapse (XCU) Hazard,  
• Broad Form Property Damage (including Com pleted Operations)  
(iv)  Automobile Liability Insurance , including coverage for owned, hired, and non -owned automobiles and trucks 
used by or on behalf of the Supplier providing insurance for bodily injury, liability and property damage liability with 
minimum limits for each type of coverage of $5,000,000 per accident .  
 (C)  The following coverages are specifically required if the Purchase Order involves:  
(i) exposure to or handling of Hazardous Materials , then Environmental Impairment Liability Insurance (including 
Asbestos) with limits of $5,000,000 per occurrence; (ii) watercraft owned, operated or chartered by Supplier or its 
Representatives, liability arising out of such watercraft shall be insured by General Liability (with the watercraft 
exclusion deleted), Marine General Liability, or Protection and Indemnity Insurance with a combined single limit  of 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
20 no less than $5,000,000 per each occurrence; (iii) aircraft (fixed wing or helicopter) owned, operate d or chartered by 
Supplier or its Representatives, liability arising out of such aircraft shall be insured for not less than $10,000,000 
combined single limit each occurrence; (iv) access, storage, transmission or processing of Customer’s, its 
customer’s or end user’s, its or their Representatives’ confidential information, Supplier shall procure Cyber Liability 
or Technology Errors and Omissions Insurance providing coverage, for acts, errors, omissions, and negligence of 
Supplier’s employees and contractor s giving rise to potential liability, financial and other losses relating to data 
security and privacy, including cost of defense and settlement, in an amount of at least $5,000,000 each 
occurrence; (v) engineering, design and/or development services, Supp lier shall procure Professional Liability 
(Errors and Omissions) Insurance providing coverage for the negligent acts, errors, or omissions of Supplier  or its  
employees during the performance of professional services in an amount not less than $5,000,000 pe r claim or 
occurrence; (vi) Customer or Customer’s customer ’s or end user’s property under the care, custody and control of 
Supplier or Supplier’s Representatives (including during rigging, storage or transport), Supplier shall obtain 
insurance covering lo ss or damage to such property on a 100 percent (100%) replacement cost basis, which 
insurance shall provide coverage to Customer and Customer’s customer  or end user (as appropriate), each as their 
respective interests may appear; (vii) Supplier, its Affili ates and/or its and their respective Representative being 
granted access to Customer or Customer’s Affiliate’s facilities, premises and/or computer systems, Supplier shall 
procure Employee Dishonesty and Computer Fraud Insurance covering losses arising out  of or in connection with 
any fraudulent or dishonest acts committed by its personnel, acting alone or with others, in an amount not less than 
$1,000,000 per occurrence  including a third -party endorsement extending coverage to losses suffered by Customer 
as a result of the fraudulent or dishonest acts of Supplier’s personnel . 
 (D) The procurement, maintenance  or acceptance of insurance coverage by Customer, if any, shall not: (i) relieve 
Supplier of liability for loss or damage in excess of the policy coverage limits specified herein; or (ii) limit or release 
Supplier of its obligations or liabilities under th e Purchase Order.  
 (E) No delay or failure in declaring any default or in enforcing any of the requirements of this Exhibit E , and no course of 
dealing between Customer and Supplier shall constitute a waiver of any of the requirements of this Exhibit E .     
 
 
Siemens Energy, Inc. - Terms and Conditions for Purchase of Goods and Services - USA 
(Version 3. 1, January  15, 2023) 
21 Exhibit F  
Affirmative Action  
As a federal contractor/subcontractor, the Customer is required to comply with certain federal regulations, including 
the regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Federal Contract  Compliance Programs 
(“OFCCP”). As a federal contractor, the Customer is also required to ensure compliance of the OFCCP by its 
subcontractors, vendors and suppliers covered under the OFCCP (each, a “Covered Party”).  Supplier is hereby 
notified of Custome r’s policy related to affirmative action and our mutual OFCCP obligations to the extent Supplier, 
its subcontractors, vendors or suppliers is a Covered Party.  
The Customer is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer and does not discriminate on the  basis of race, 
color, creed, religion, national origin, ancestry, sex, age, physical or mental disability, marital status, pregnancy, 
genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, protected veteran or military status, or any other 
consideratio n not related to the person’s ability to do the job or otherwise made unlawful by federal, state or local law 
in the following employment practices, including among others: recruiting, hiring, placement, transfer, promotion, 
demotion, selection for trainin g, layoff, termination, shift assignment, determination of service, rates of pay, benefit 
plans, and all forms of compensation and other personnel actions.  
As a federal contractor/subcontractor, the Customer’s Covered Parties (including Supplier and its Co vered Parties, if 
applicable) also have an obligation to comply with equal opportunity and affirmative action principles.  Therefore, the 
Customer’s Covered Parties (including Supplier and its Covered Parties, if applicable) will take appropriate action in  
support of these principles.  Through our mutual effort and cooperation, we will continue to provide a working 
environment that appreciates and encourages diversity, promotes equal employment opportunity and is free from 
any type of discrimination.  
Suppli er and its Covered Parties, if applicable, shall abide by the requirements of the “Equal Opportunity Clause” in 
Section 202 of Executive Order 11246. See 41 CFR 60 -1.4(a); 29 CFR part 471, appendix A to subpart A of 
Executive Order 13496.  
The following sha ll also apply if the Supplier is a Covered Party:  
For contracts of $100,000 or more, Supplier shall comply with the following: The Supplier, contractor and 
subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR 60 -300.5(a). This regulation prohibits 
discr imination against qualified protected veterans and requires affirmative action by covered prime 
contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance in employment qualified protected veterans.  
 
For contracts of $10,000 or more, Supplier shall comply with t he following:  The Supplier, contractor and 
subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR 60 -741.5(a). This regulation prohibits 
discrimination against qualified individuals on the basis of disability and requires affirmative action by 
covered pr ime contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals 
with disabilities.  
 