Siemens Energy  
Business Conduct Guidelines
We make real what matters
AccountableResponsável 担当Responsabileمسؤول
Verantwortlich
Odpowiedzialny
ответственныйOdpovědnýSorumluVerantwoordelijk
Responsableความรับผิดชอบ
2Preface 3, 4
We energize society 5
Our motivation and common values
Our basic principles 6
We behave correctly 7
We respect each other 8
We create trust 9
We protect our company 9
As managers, we have  
a special responsibility10Our responsibility 11
We look after each other  
and ourselves12
Basic working conditions 12
Health, occupational safety,  
and personal security13
Our markets:  
we act fairly and reliably14
Fair competition: we place  
integrity at the heart  
of everything we do14
We are successful in  
fair competition: antitrust law  
and fair competition18
We comply with trade  
and export control regulations20
Collective Action:  
our commitment to clean  
markets pays off20
Our company: we create  
trust and protect what makes  
Siemens Energy valuable21
The Siemens Energy brand: a promise  
of innovation and quality21
Conflicts of interest –  
we only make business decisions  
in the interest of Siemens Energy22Money laundering and the funding  
of terrorism – not with us!24
Financial integrity – this is 
how we strengthen the trust 
placed in us25
Insider trading –  
neither for us, nor for others!26
How we responsibly protect  
our corporate assets27
Data protection and privacy  
– we are aware of our responsibilities29
Our portfolio:  
world-class products, services,  
and industry solutions30
Our partners: we work  
with responsible partners31
Our responsibility to society  
and the environment32
Our commitment to  
international agreements  
and recommendations32
Human rights 33
Environment 34Our reporting  
procedures35
What to do if there are signs 
of possible misconduct
Index 37
Imprint 38F
F1
F2 
G
G1
G2
G3
G4
H
H1
H2H3
H4
H5
H6
H7
I
J
K
K1
K2
K3A
B
C 
D
E
3
PrefaceBusiness Conduct Guidelines | September, 2020
 
 
Compliance is about adhering to all laws and rules in  
our business transactions. This may read as a commonly 
accepted definition. However, I strongly believe that 
living the spirit of compliance goes beyond fulfilling 
official requirements, rules, and regulations.
At Siemens Energy, we are tackling one of the most 
exciting tasks a company can have. Our purpose is to 
shape energy transitions worldwide: We energize society 
– this is what we stand for. Our products, solutions, and 
services should help our customers for the greater good 
of our communities.
A society worth living in requires ceaseless commitment 
to personal responsibility. In a constant process of 
interaction, we have choices to make – choices that 
either contribute to or undermine the common good.  
We at Siemens Energy choose the former.
We can accomplish a great deal for society if we stay true 
to our values: We are caring, respectful, and accountable. 
These values shape our company culture and actions. 
They call on us to comply with laws and regulations, 
always and wherever we operate. There is zero tolerance 
for violations. We will be successful because we take 
compliance seriously.You can find the principles and values for compliance  
and integrity in our Business Conduct Guidelines.  
The rules compiled here apply to relationships with our 
customers, business partners, and the societies in which 
we live and work. Without exception, these rules are 
mandatory for all of us.
Siemens Energy operates in more than 90 countries.  
We know there are significant compliance risks in many 
of them. This brochure offers you guidance for your 
actions. I therefore ask you to carefully study the 
content. Whenever you have the slightest doubt about 
what you should do, please contact the Compliance 
Department. Our colleagues are there to help you with 
advice and support.
Siemens Energy aims to become the world’s most valued 
energy technology company. Compliance is the base to 
reach that goal.Dr. Christian Bruch
President and CEO Siemens Energy
“We energize society.”
4
Our responsibilityMunich, September 2020
 
 
We energize society. Our purpose emphasizes the deep 
impact that our business has on society and the quality 
of life across the globe. For us to fulfill this purpose, our 
partners and communities need to place their trust in us. 
Compliance with the law in each country where we do 
business is one of the basic conditions to earn this trust.
The Siemens compliance crisis in 2006 has taught us 
how easily this trust can be destroyed and the terrible 
damage that can arise from compliance violations.  
As a consequence, Siemens built a Compliance System 
now recognized as one of the best in the world.
Siemens Energy is building on this strong foundation. 
The Business Conduct Guidelines are the heart of our 
Compliance System. They represent the framework in 
which we operate. All employees, managers, and 
Managing Board members must live the content of our 
Business Conduct Guidelines in their daily business. Even 
more than ten years after the compliance crisis, we must 
stay vigilant towards any risks and challenges to our 
integrity that may arise in our day-to-day business, 
especially in uncertain situations.The rules of the Business Conduct Guidelines are brought 
to life by our values and the way we adhere to them.  
Our Siemens Energy values Caring, Agile, Respectful,  
and Accountable define our culture and the way we 
behave: We focus on the customer, we decisively move 
forward, we are open and inclusive, and we build strong 
partnerships. Compliance is a non-negotiable part of this 
culture.
Acting in compliance with the law and the Business 
Conduct Guidelines is the core responsibility of each of 
us at Siemens Energy. We, as the Legal and Compliance 
organization of Siemens Energy, are here to support you 
and help you find solutions to challenging situations.  
If you have questions regarding the application or 
interpretation of the Business Conduct Guidelines,  
or if you notice any potential violation of the Business 
Conduct Guidelines, please do not hesitate to contact us 
at any time. In addition, you can report any information 
regarding possible misconduct to our “Speak Up” Hotline  
or our Ombudsperson . Whichever option you choose, 
you can be sure that your report will be followed up 
professionally, promptly, and fairly.
Dr. Ilkin Karakaya
Group General Counsel and Head of Legal and ComplianceDr
. Anita Schieffer
Group Compliance Officer
Preface“Compliance is everybody’s responsibility.”

5
Our motivationOur passion for technology 
drives us to set standards and 
create added value in the  
long-term for our customers, 
society and every individual.
Werner von Siemens,  
would have called this 
“inventiveness.”Our guiding 
principle is:Values, Behavior,  
Leadership, People  
Orientation, and Equity.
We provide the single most 
essential element for growth 
and prosperity: electricity.  
We keep the lights on for more 
than 800 million households 
across the globe.Our success is based on a strong 
corporate culture. That is why we 
drive an Ownership Culture that 
consists of five components:
The Business Conduct Guidelines 
provide us with orientation.They set forth our behavioral  
expectations and obligations.5
The Business Conduct Guidelines help us apply our values: 
caring, agile, respectful, and accountable
• We are caring. We listen to our customers and adapt to 
their needs.
• We are agile, move fast with simplicity and focus.
• We are respectful, open and inclusive.
• We are accountable and deliver on our promises.
This is how we jointly make real what matters.We make real 
what matters.Always act as if  
it was your  
own company.We energize society
 
Our motivation and common values

We behave correctly  
We respect each other  
We create trust  
We protect our company  
As managers, we have a special responsibilityA
B
C
D
EOur basic principles
Our basic principles guide our decisions 
and overall conducts as employees  
of Siemens Energy
7We comply with the applicable laws of the countries in 
which we operate and ensure the implementation of all 
company guidelines, processes, and controls.
What laws must we obey?
We must be aware of and comply with the laws and 
regulations that apply to our daily work. These laws  
and regulations may vary from country to country.  
If we are uncertain or have questions, we contact  
Legal and Compliance.
 
What are the consequences of violations for  
our company and for us as employees?
Violations of the law or failure to comply with the 
Business Conduct Guidelines can have serious 
consequences for our company and us.How does "100% Energy, 100 % Compliance " apply to your 
decisions?
I am a 100 % sure that...
•  My decisions are in best interests of Siemens Energy
and aligned with our values
•  My decisions are lawful
• I take full responsibility for my decisions
•  I am comfortable with my decisions or their consequences
appearing on the front page of a newspaperWe behave correctly
A
These consequences can be,  
 
for each of us:  
• Disciplinary action
• Fines and damages
• Imprisonment
 
for our company:  
• Damage to Siemens Energy’s reputation, brand,  
and market value
• Significant fines and damages
• Disgorgement of profit
• Exclusion from public and private contracts
Our basic principles
8We respect the personal dignity, privacy, and rights of 
each individual. We believe diversity enriches our 
workplace. We work together without regard to ethnic 
origin, culture, religion, age, disability, skin color, 
gender, sexual identity and orientation, or worldview.
We do not tolerate discrimination, sexual or any other 
form of harassment, or inappropriate behavior toward  
individuals or groups.
We apply these principles of respect to each other and 
third-parties with whom we interact, including our 
suppliers, customers, and business partners.What does this mean in practice? What behavior 
is unacceptable? Here are a few examples:
• Racially offensive or xenophobic material is placed  
on a colleague’s desk;
• Innuendo or comments hostile to the disabled;
• Gender-specific harassment or violence, including 
assaults, unwanted advances, or improper remarks  
or jokes; or
• Display improper images or objects, including those 
with sexual content.We respect each other
B
Our basic principles
9We interact with each other in a 
respectful and reliable manner
We are open and honest. We take our responsibility 
seriously, we are reliable, and we only make promises  
we can keep.
We are sincere. We help clarify and eliminate potential 
deficiencies, problems, and misunderstandings.  
We do everything to fulfill the trust placed in us by our 
customers and the users of our products, services, and 
industry solutions.
 
What do we do when we make a mistake?
We all make mistakes at work. We foster a culture where 
we learn from our mistakes. We deal openly with them  
to prevent them from recurring. This is the only way  
to learn from mistakes and help prevent them from 
recurring. While most mistakes are minor, others could 
have serious consequences and should be reported.We protect and promote Siemens Energy’s reputation 
and values. They are essential for our business success 
and ensure the sustainable future of our company. If we 
act illegally or inappropriately, we can cause considerable 
damage to the company.
What do we do if we observe a violation of  
the Business Conduct Guidelines?
We do not look away when we recognize possible 
violations of the Business Conduct Guidelines,  
even if they do not involve us personally. The company 
has numerous outlets to report possible violations of  
the Business Conduct Guidelines (see chapter “Our 
reporting procedures”). In many cases, timely reporting 
is important to avoid or minimize negative consequences 
to the company.We create trust We protect our company
 C
 D
Our basic principles
?
?
10Our managers lead by example  
and set the appropriate tone  
from the top
As managers, we bear a special responsibility and we 
take seriously our duty of care for the employees 
entrusted to us.
We create a trusting working environment and are 
always available to discuss with our employees 
uncertainties, compliance with legal requirements, 
questions, or professional and personal concerns with 
our employees.
We set a good example and ensure our teams understand 
the importance of acting in accordance with the Business 
Conduct Guidelines.
We take every indication of possible misconduct seriously 
and report it to Legal and Compliance. We protect the 
identity of employees who report potential misconduct 
and protect them from retaliation or other negative 
impact.
We fulfill our organizational and supervisory duties.
E
Our basic principlesAs managers, we have 
a special responsibility
What are our organizational and  
supervisory duties?
• We carefully select employees based on their personal 
and professional qualifications and suitability. The duty 
of care increases with the importance of the task the 
employee has to perform (Duty of Selection).
• We define binding tasks precisely and completely, 
especially with regard to compliance with legal 
requirements (Duty to Issue Instructions).
• We ensure that compliance with legal requirements is 
constantly monitored (Duty to Monitor).
• In our day-to-day business, we clearly communicate 
the importance of responsible business conduct, 
compliance with legal requirements, and the 
consequences of our misconduct (Duty to 
Communicate).
Managers’ special responsibilities and duties do not 
release us from our own responsibilities as employees.
We must work together to comply with the laws and
Siemens Energy guidelines.

We look after each other and ourselves  
Our markets: we act fairly and reliably  
Our company: we create trust and protect  
what makes Siemens Energy valuable 
Our portfolio: world-class products, services,  
and industry solutions  
Our partners: we work with responsible partners   
Our responsibility to society and the environmentF
G
H
I
J
KOur responsibility
We make real what matters

12Basic working conditions
Siemens Energy fosters fair cooperation among 
management, employees, and employee representatives, 
and protects the fundamental rights of its employees.
 
No discrimination or intimidation
The principles of equal opportunity and equal treatment 
are guaranteed without regard to skin color, ethnic or  
social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual identity,  
worldview, or gender. In accordance with the labor laws 
of the countries in which Siemens Energy operates, 
discrimination based on these characteristics, sexual 
harassment, or other inappropriate behavior toward 
individuals or groups will not be tolerated.
 
Prohibition of child labor
Child labor is strictly prohibited.Siemens Energy protects our fundamental rights as 
employees, our health, our personal security,  
and occupational safety at all locations throughout  
the world and when we are on business travel.
Free choice of employment
No one should be employed or forced to work against  
their will. All forms of forced labor are prohibited.
 
Adequate compensation
Siemens Energy pays fair wages for labor and adheres to 
all applicable wage and compensation laws globally. 
Siemens Energy observes “equal pay” principles and does 
not discriminate on the basis of gender.We look after each other and ourselves
Working hours
Siemens Energy adheres to all applicable working-hours  
regulations globally.
 
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Siemens Energy recognizes the legal rights of workers to 
form or join existing trade unions and to engage in 
collective bargaining. Members of employee organizations 
or trade unions are neither disadvantaged nor preferred. 
Siemens Energy constructively cooperates with employees, 
employee representatives, and trade unions. 
Even in the event of disputes, Siemens Energy strives to 
ensure sustainable and constructive cooperation in the 
long term and for solutions that reflect the interests of 
the company and the interests of its employees.
F
F1
Our responsibility
13Health, occupational safety,  
and personal security
Siemens Energy cares about us as part of its  
corporate responsibility.
 
Our health
Siemens Energy protects and promotes our health and 
well-being, guards against the risk of work-related 
accidents, and offers a wide-range of support to maintain 
and promote our physical and mental health.
 
Our occupational safety
Siemens Energy provides a safe work environment to 
ensure employees return home healthy and unharmed  
at the end of the working day.  We ourselves contribute 
to this:
F2
This is what we do:
• We observe the safety regulations at our  
workplace.
• We avoid risky behavior.
• When we recognize dangerous situations, we 
take appropriate action.This is what we do:
• We educate ourselves in advance about the
security risks in the countries to which we will be 
traveling and comply with prescribed security 
procedures and requirements.
• We do not expose ourselves or our colleagues to
unnecessary hazards through reckless behavior 
or by ignoring security regulations.
• We react quickly in a critical situation, contact the
emergency hotline at +49 (89) 7805 – 12345 
(staffed 24 hours a day), and follow the relevant  
security instructions.
• We report security incidents promptly to our 
security officer and/or use the security incident
reporting tool “IncidentReporting@Siemens”(IR@S).
Our employees are our  
most valuable asset.  
Health and safety are our 
top priority.We set a good example.
Our responsibilityOur personal security
Siemens Energy is active worldwide, including in areas and 
situations where the security situation is critical. To protect 
our employees, the company, and our business in the best 
possible way, Siemens Energy identifies and analyzes 
global security risks and assesses their potential impact.
!!
14Fair competition: we place integrity 
at the heart of everything we do
We reject all forms of corruption and bribery.
We do not tolerate any form of corruption in our business 
dealings anywhere in the world. This includes our 
business dealings through our external partners.
 
Corruption
Corruption is dishonest or illegal behavior, especially by 
people in power, typically involving bribery. It can also 
include other acts, such as fraud, embezzlement, 
favoritism, and nepotism.
The most common form of corruption is bribery.  
Siemens Energy does not tolerate any form of bribery.Fair competition is in line with our values: caring, agile, 
respectful, and accountable. Siemens Energy stands for 
fair competition in which only market economy criteria 
(quality, price, innovation, service, etc.) are the decisive 
factors for business decisions. Competition should not be 
distorted by unfair methods or means.
Bribery is the act of offering, promising, or giving 
money, gifts, or other benefit to a public official or 
public or private employee with the aim of receiving 
improper advantages. Bribery is a criminal offense 
worldwide.
 
The term “public official” or “member of the public 
sector” covers any person employed by or 
commissioned by a public authority. This includes all 
government officials and employees of non-
governmental institutions who are regarded as public 
officials in accordance with applicable law.Our markets: we act fairly and reliably
G
G  1
This is what we do:
• We do not actively or passively engage in any  
form of corrupt conduct.
• We report all suspected corrupt activity to our  
Legal and Compliance organization.
Our responsibility!
15We do not tolerate  
any form of bribery
Gifts and hospitality – yes, but only  
to a reasonable extent
In many cultures, gifts and invitations to entertainment 
events are important for developing and deepening 
business relationships. However, some gifts and invitations 
may unreasonably influence the recipient’s decision-
making or create the appearance of improper influence.
What are facilitation payments?
A facilitation payment is the payment of a relatively small 
amount of money, or the granting of any other benefit, 
usually to low-ranking public officials, for their personal 
benefit or to expedite the performance of a routine 
governmental action.
Facilitation payments are prohibited and can be prosecuted. 
This is what we do:
We do not
• Give or accept excessive gifts or entertainment;
• Give or accept excessive travel expenses;
• Give or accept inappropriate donations,  
sponsorship, or memberships;
• Give or accept inappropriate monetary payments;
• Use third-parties to bribe on Siemens Energy’s 
behalf; or
• Give or accept improper facilitation payments.
This is what we do:
• We do not provide or accept overly generous gifts  
or hospitality.
• We do not provide or accept gifts or hospitality in 
exchange for business or other benefits.
Our responsibility!
!Gifts and hospitality must:
• be in accordance with applicable laws  
and regulations,
 
Regulations
Our business counterparts, especially government 
officials, often have their own internal rules that restrict 
their ability to accept gifts and hospitality. These rules 
can be very strict and we must be aware of and adhere  
to them.
• Be transparent and correctly recorded in the 
company’s books and records;
• Be appropriate in terms of type, value, and frequency 
to the occasion and the position of the recipient;
• Not be offered, provided, demanded, or accepted with 
the expectation of any type of advantage; and
• Never give the appearance of dishonesty or  
inappropriateness.
16Political engagement
Continuous dialog with political decision-makers is highly 
relevant for the success of a global company. We are 
committed to political neutrality. Siemens Energy 
activities with respect to politicians, parties, and 
positions will be non-partisan; and solely in support of 
Siemens Energy business goals. We comply with the law 
and Siemens Energy guidelines.Payment of travel expenses –  
yes, but only when reasonable and allowable
Siemens Energy may be required to pay third-party travel 
expenses in certain business transactions. However, 
excessive reimbursement can inappropriately influence 
the recipient or at least create the appearance of influence.
This is what we do:
Sponsorships, donations, charitable contributions, 
and memberships:
• Must be carefully examined to determine whether 
they promote the company’s legitimate objectives;
• May not be promised, offered, or made to obtain 
improper business advantages or for other 
unethical purposes;
• Must be religiously and politically neutral; and
• Must strengthen our brand and our social 
commitments. It is not enough to consider legal 
requirements alone.
This is what we do:
• We only pay justified and appropriate  
travel expenses.
• We adhere to the aforementioned regulations  
for gifts and hospitality.
Our responsibility!
!Sponsorships, donations, charitable contributions, 
and memberships – yes, but only to promote 
corporate goals
Sponsorships, donations, charitable contributions, and 
memberships are important to our social commitment 
and the pursuit of our corporate goals.
17This is what we do:
• We scrutinize and monitor business partners and 
take into account their respective risks.
• We are committed to ensuring that our partners 
in our value chain know and adhere to our values 
and compliance standards.
• We insist on contract provisions that require our 
business partners to act in compliance with all 
applicable rules and regulations.Here are some red flags we must critically  
question and clarify:
• Inconsistencies in records and payments;
• High prices with deep discounts or unduly high  
profit margins;
• Contractual partners with unclear responsibilities  
or questionable qualifications;
• Suspicious personal relationships or business 
arrangements;
• Unusually high fees, commissions, gifts, 
entertainment, or hospitality;
• The rejection of anti-corruption  contract clauses;
• The demand for prepayment without plausible 
business reasons; and
• Demands for cash payments or transfers to offshore 
bank accounts or third-parties.This is what we do:
• We only maintain accounts or funds for  
legitimate purposes.
• We only make payments to third-parties that  
are legal and have legitimate purposes.
• We only make payments when there is proper 
documentation.
Our responsibilityOutgoing payments – yes, but only if used lawfully
Payments to third-parties are made every day in the 
course of business at Siemens Energy. Processes and 
tools help us ensure these payments are properly 
documented and provided for proper purposes.Involvement of third-parties – yes, but without bribery
There are many legitimate reasons for involving third-
parties in business relationships. However, using third-
parties to unlawfully or improperly influence public 
officials or private individuals is prohibited. We therefore 
scrutinize business partners at the beginning of our 
business relationships and monitor the relationships as 
they develop.
!
!
18“I will not sell the future  
for instant profit.”
 
Werner von Siemens
We never talk to competitors about:
• Prices, price components, or other conditions;
• Market, customer, or territory allocation;
• Business opportunities or incoming orders;
• Capacities, production volumes, or quotas;
• Corporate strategies or future market behavior; for 
example, sales strategies, current and future product 
developments, investments, and boycotts;
• Offers and tenders; and
• Conduct during tenders or the submission of  
bogus offers.This is what we do:
• We only talk to competitors if we have a 
compelling business reason and there are no 
antitrust concerns.This is what we do:
• We also support open competition in our 
relationships with customers, sales partners,  
and suppliers.
• We never talk to customers, sales partners,  
or suppliers about:
– Adherence to resale prices. In many cases, 
however, non-binding recommendations, 
without pressure or incentives, regarding 
resale prices and the establishment of 
maximum sale prices are permissible; or
– Obstruction of exports or re-imports.
• We respect third parties’ trade secrets and other 
information they wish to keep confidential.This is what we do:
• We never enter into anticompetitive agreements 
with competitors.
Our responsibilityWe are successful in fair competition:  
antitrust law and fair competition
Antitrust law protects free, undistorted, and effective 
competition for the benefit of customers, companies, 
and society as a whole.
Antitrust violations can have serious consequences for 
our company and the employees involved, such as 
imprisonment, high fines, exclusion from public tenders, 
claims for damages and damage to reputation.
G  2
What are anticompetitive agreements?
Anticompetitive agreements include price fixing,  
market, customer, or territory allocations, and  
bid rigging with competitors. Abusing a dominant 
position (indicator: more than 30 to 50 percent market 
share) is also prohibited.
?!! !
19What is confidential information that deserves 
special protection?
Trade secrets and other information that third parties wish 
to keep confidential is not intended to be made public.  
This may include non-public information from or about 
Siemens Energy, suppliers, customers, employees, agents, 
consultants, or other third-parties that is protected under 
legal and contractual requirements.
 
This can include, for example:
• Prices, sales, profits, markets, customers, and other 
business matters;
• Offer documents;
• Information on manufacturing, research, and 
development processes;
• Technical information; and
• Internal reporting figures.A few examples of what we do not do:
• We do not gather such information in a  
problematic manner.
• We do not use information if we have reason to 
believe that it constitutes a trade secret of a third party 
and has been illegally obtained or disclosed.
• We do not use confidential documents from previous 
employers or store them on Siemens Energy networks.
This is what we do:
• For products where Siemens Energy may have a 
dominant position (indicator: greater than 30 to 
50 percent market share), we contact Legal and 
Compliance before engaging in the following 
types of conduct:
– Exclusivity agreements or loyalty discounts;
– Excessively high or low “competitive prices”;
– Bundled sale of a “strong market” product with 
other products;
– Unequal treatment of business partners 
(except where there is an objective 
justification, such as, for example, different 
sales prices due to a volume discount); or
– Refusal of delivery or license (without an 
objective justification).
• We have certain proposed collaborations 
examined in advance by Legal and Compliance, 
such as:
– Working/bidding partnerships, consortia;
– Joint research and development;
– Specialization/joint production;
– Standardization and harmonization;
– Joint purchasing;
– Exclusive distribution/exclusive procurement;
– Market information systems/benchmarking; and
– Exclusivity agreements and exclusive  
territory allocation in distribution and  
licensing agreements.
• We only participate in association meetings if 
there is a written invitation with an agenda, 
representatives of the association are present, 
and minutes are kept. Further information can  
be found in the “Trade Association Activities - 
Antitrust Guidance.”
Our responsibility
?!
20We comply with trade and  
export control regulations
As a company with international operations, it is 
essential for Siemens Energy to comply with the export 
control and customs regulations applicable to national 
and international trade.
Collective Action: our commitment 
to clean markets pays off
Siemens Energy faces significant compliance risks in 
numerous markets. Collective Action is our strategic 
response to this challenge. Together with other 
companies, the public sector, and civil society, we enter 
into integrity and compliance pacts with our partners for 
business cooperation and support binding agreements 
for individual sectors and markets. Through these joint 
efforts, we aim to create fair, level, and clean market 
conditions for all participants.This is what we do:
• We carefully ensure that the applicable  
customs and foreign trade regulations,  
including regulations on security in the supply 
chain, are checked, implemented, and complied 
with when goods are traded or transported, 
services are provided, or other technical know-
how or software is transferred.
• We thoroughly audit business in sanctioned 
countries.
• We ensure that all applicable export control 
regulations (such as those of the European Union 
and the United States) are checked and complied 
with in Siemens Energy’s business activities,  
even outside the respective territories.
• We distance ourselves from a transaction and 
alert Export Control when there are indications  
of possible infringements or unauthorized use of 
our products, services, or industry solutions.
G  3
G  4
Our responsibility!
21This is what we do:
• We are innovative and constantly working on 
new business ideas. However, we always make 
decisions to protect or strengthen the Siemens 
Energy brand, not in favor of a particular 
business alone.
• When in doubt and before making a decision 
regarding the Siemens Energy brand, we contact 
the Brand Design Hotline  
(design-support@siemens-energy.com).This is what we do:
• We, as inventors, support Siemens Energy  
by filing for intellectual property rights in a timely 
manner.
• We report suspected violations of our intellectual 
property rights.
• We use computer software only in accordance 
with applicable license terms and ensure 
compliance with all license requirements of 
integrated third-party software, commercial, and 
open source software, in our products and 
solutions.
• We respect the intellectual property rights  
of third-parties.Our company: we create trust and protect 
what makes Siemens Energy valuable“A strong brand reflects not only a company’s offerings but also what it stands for.  
And a strong brand opens doors and keeps them open. We must not underestimate  
the importance of being a trustworthy brand to our stakeholders, as this is the key to 
fulfilling our purpose to energize society.”
 
Dr. Christian Bruch, President and CEO of Siemens Energy
H
The Siemens Energy brand:  
a promise of innovation and quality
The Siemens Energy brand is an integral part of our 
business and, therefore, has significant strategic 
importance. It is one of our major corporate assets and 
competencies, generates trust, and has a positive effect 
on all our business activities. With the Siemens Energy 
brand, we distinguish ourselves from the competition.
H  1
Our responsibilityIn addition to the Siemens Energy brand, intellectual 
property rights, patents, copyrights, and confidential 
know-how, and their protection, are essential for our 
business success. 
!!
22To protect ourselves and our company, we pay 
close attention to possible conflicts of interest.  
The following questions help us assess whether there is  
a conflict or an appearance of a conflict:
• Is the decision we make for Siemens Energy influenced 
by personal interests?
• What impression would the situation leave on third-
parties, such as customers, business partners, and 
investors?
• How would the public react to my business decision?
 
Here is a classic example of an internal  
conflict of interest:
There is an intimate relationship between an employee 
and a manager. The manager is obliged to disclose the 
conflict of interest at an early stage and change the 
reporting relationship.This is what we do:
• We make business decisions in the best interest 
of our company and not on the basis of personal 
interests.
• We anticipate and avoid situations in which the 
appearance of a conflict of interest may arise.
• We do not, as part of our work for Siemens Energy, 
engage companies with which we have a personal 
interest if it could personally benefit us, whether 
or not we have or can exert direct or indirect 
influence on Siemens Energy’s business decision.
• We inform our managers of any personal interest 
that might exist in connection with the 
performance of our official duties.Handling of the Siemens Energy brand and other 
intellectual property rights
 
What makes the Siemens Energy brand  
so valuable?
The brand:  
• Provides focus to our stakeholders, such as customers, 
employees, etc.;
• Distinguishes us from the competition; and
• Ultimately generates trust.
 
Why are intellectual property rights so  
important to Siemens Energy?
If our innovations are not protected, third-parties can 
copy our products, which leads to a loss of competitive  
advantage. When our innovations are infringed, we lose 
the value of our investments in research and development.
 
Conflicts of interest – we only 
make business decisions in the 
interest of Siemens Energy
We are not influenced by personal interests when  
making business decisions. Such conflicts of interest can 
hinder Siemens Energy’s success in that decisions are 
made contrary to Siemens Energy's interest, customers 
are driven away, or important information is disclosed.Conflicts of interest may, for example:  
• Harm Siemens Energy if contracts are awarded on  
the basis of personal relationships that contain inferior 
terms from those of competitors; and
• Lead to reputational damage if they are made public; 
dissatisfied employees or former customers could 
communicate conflicts to the outside world.
There is a conflict of interest in day-to-day  
business if our personal interests differ from those 
of Siemens Energy.
H  2
Our responsibility
?
?
?!
23Secondary employment
A conflict may also arise in the performance of secondary 
employments that prevent us from properly performing 
our duties at Siemens Energy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary employment can only be prohibited,  
and previously granted permission can be revoked, 
if it leads to an impairment of the employee’s work  
performance, interferes with his or her duties within the 
company, or if there is a risk of a conflict of interest.  
Occasional writing, lecturing, and similar activities,  
and temporary seasonal or clerical work are not regarded 
as secondary employment.Investment in third-party companies
Conflicts of interest can also arise through investments  
in third-party companies.This is what we do:
• We do not operate or work for a company that 
competes with Siemens Energy.
• We do not engage in any activity that competes 
with Siemens Energy. This is what we do:
We inform the Human Resources department in  
writing of any direct or indirect investment in  
companies:
• That are business partners of Siemens Energy  
if we are engaged in business with the company 
or have a board or management role in  
the company. With respect to publicly traded 
companies, this only applies if the investment 
exceeds three percent of the total capital; or
• That compete with our company if we can 
influence the management of the competitor 
through this investment. This is presumed if the 
interest exceeds three percent of the total capital 
of the company.This is what we do:
• Before we engage in paid secondary 
employment, we consult with our managers.  
We inform the Human Resources department  
in writing that we would like to take up paid 
secondary employment and will only do so  
after obtaining written consent.
Our responsibilityCompetition with Siemens Energy
A conflict of interest may also arise in business 
relationships with or through investments in a 
competitor or customer of Siemens Energy.
Typical examples of a competitive situation:
• The employee also works for or advises a competitor 
of Siemens Energy.
• The employee himself competes directly with  
Siemens Energy.
• There are personal or family ties to competitors.!
! !
24Money laundering and the funding 
of terrorism – not with us!
Delivery and supply activities entail the risk of being 
abused for money laundering or terrorist financing.
Siemens Energy strives to maintain business relationships 
only with reputable customers, partners, and companies 
whose business activities comply with legal requirements 
and whose financial resources are of legitimate origin.
 
Money laundering is the disguising of the origin of 
money or other assets from criminal activities and 
moving them into the legitimate economy. In addition to 
monetary support, the funding of terrorism may include 
other assets such as goods or merchandise.This is what we do:
• We use a risk-based approach to verify the 
identity and economic background of customers, 
business partners, and other third-parties, and 
the origin of payments to ensure they come from 
legitimate sources.
• We immediately inform Legal and Compliance or 
our manager in the event of suspicious activity. 
When necessary, Siemens Energy reports 
suspicious activity to law enforcement authorities.
H  3
Our responsibility!
25Am I responsible for tax matters even if I do not 
work directly in the Finance or Tax Department?
Yes. We are all responsible for tax matters in the context 
of our business activities. The correct fiscal representation 
of a business activity is not only the responsibility of the 
Finance or Tax Department. All transactions must be 
reflected correctly for tax purposes. For example,  
a customer invoice must contain, among other things, 
accurate information about the content of the service 
provided and the correct VAT.
 
I am planning a business transaction with a 
customer abroad. What do I have to do from  
a tax perspective?
If you are unsure about the tax consequences of the 
transaction, contact the Tax Department for advice.This is what we do:
• When applying tax laws, or in the event of 
conflicts between tax regulations, we ensure the 
tax result is consistent with the relevant 
economic and legal circumstances and our 
business models.
• We do not use artificial structures or letterbox 
companies whose sole purpose is to obtain 
unlawful tax advantages.
• We provide tax authorities with transparent 
information on our tax strategy and business 
activities in accordance with existing regulations.
Our accounts and records include all data, 
certificates, and other written materials provided 
for financial reporting and disclosure purposes, and 
materials collected for other purposes.This is what we do:
• We ensure our books and records are kept 
completely, accurately, and truthfully. They are 
prepared on time and in accordance with the 
applicable rules and standards.
• We comply with the Financial Reporting 
Guidelines and follow internal control processes.
• We provide correct and complete information for 
financial reporting purposes.Financial integrity – this is how we 
strengthen the trust placed in us
As an international company, Siemens Energy is 
committed to accurate and truthful reporting to 
investors, employees, customers, business partners,  
the public, and all government agencies. We follow all 
applicable laws, regulations, standards, and practices.
H  4
Our responsibility
?
?! !
26How do we know if we are an insider?
We must consider whether information we receive can 
have a significant impact on our share price such that, if 
disclosed, it represents insider information. Ultimately,  
Siemens Energy cannot make this decision for us. 
Furthermore, it is not the formal inclusion in an insider 
list that is decisive, but whether we are actually aware of 
insider information. Whether an insider list is opened 
and who is included in it should be viewed as a separate 
decision to be made by the company. This also applies to 
insider information that concerns another company.Can we be sure we are not violating the ban on 
insider trading when participating in employee 
stock ownership programs?
Siemens Energy strives to enable us to participate in 
employee stock ownership programs with the lowest 
possible risk of violating the insider trading prohibition. 
However, this does not rule out the possibility that we 
may have knowledge of insider information in individual 
cases. Therefore, when actively participating in employee 
stock programs, we should always ask ourselves whether 
we can make the purchase or sale decisions without 
being influenced by possible insider information.This is what we do:
• We do not engage in transactions based on 
insider information, such as the purchase or sale 
of a share or option or the cancellation of a share 
purchase order, for us or for others.
• We do not induce others, such as friends or bank 
advisors, to engage in securities transactions on 
the basis of insider information, and we do not 
recommend such transactions to them.
• We treat insider and potential insider information 
with strict confidentiality and ensure that 
unauthorized persons cannot gain access to it.Insider trading – neither for us,  
nor for others!
Insider information may not be used or disclosed  
without authorization.
 
What is insider information?
In our work, we often come into contact with confidential 
information. If it becomes known, some of this information 
may even be important enough to have a material effect 
on the share price of Siemens Energy or another 
company, such as, for example, one of our publicly 
traded customers or suppliers, one of our publicly traded 
subsidiaries, or a joint venture partner. This is called 
“insider information” as long as it has not yet been 
published. Insider information can also consist of many 
individual pieces of information that we have gained, for 
example, from discussions and documents inside and 
outside the company or received incidentally. Our 
individual knowledge of the situation always matters.
 
What is an insider and what are the 
consequences of being an insider?
An insider is someone who has inside information. This 
person is subject to strict legal requirements. In almost 
all countries in which Siemens Energy operates, there  
are severe sanctions for the prohibited use of insider 
information. Such misuse could have considerable 
consequences for the company concerned, and result in 
personal and criminal liability.
H   5
Our responsibility
?
?!
27
This is what we do:
• We identify critical business assets in our 
respective areas of responsibility and classify 
them according to their potential impact in the 
event of a security incident.
• We develop and implement holistic  
protection measures based on the classification  
of corporate assets.
• We ensure the sustainable protection of our 
corporate assets by regularly reviewing  
the classifications and protection measures.How we responsibly protect our 
corporate assets
Our corporate assets are essential to our business 
success. For this reason, we ensure that these assets are 
handled responsibly and fully protected. As employees, 
we play a decisive role in achieving this goal.
 
We identify our critical corporate assets and 
implement protection measures to adequately  
protect them  
In order to adequately protect our corporate assets,  
we need to know and evaluate them.
H   6
We treat company information with due care
Siemens Energy attaches great importance to ensuring 
that sensitive company information cannot fall into the 
hands of unauthorized persons or third-parties. In this 
way, we create the trust required for worldwide 
cooperation with customers and partners.
Our responsibility!
28This is what we do:
• We classify information according to company 
specifications and treat it according to its 
protection class. This means we do not use 
information and documents marked “restricted”, 
“confidential”, or “strictly confidential” externally. 
This also applies to internal social media 
platforms, unless the terms of use permit 
otherwise.
• We only send confidential or critical business 
content in encrypted form and store it accordingly.
• We do not share personal passwords and access 
codes with third-parties.
• We do not disclose confidential information.
• We always adhere to the Basic Principles of 
Communication when dealing with company 
information. This also applies to business and 
personal use of social media.Basic Principles of Communication
• We take the confidentiality of internal company 
information into account in all communications.
• We check non-public information for its potential 
status as insider information prior to publication.
• We adhere to the defined core messages to ensure the 
company-wide consistency and reliability of the 
messages.
• We are particularly cautious with forecasts and other 
forward-looking statements.
• We respond to rumors and speculation with  
“No comment”.
• We are careful during our private conversations.
• We do not communicate within the “quiet period”.
Examples of confidential information can be found 
in the chapter on free competition (chapter G2).
 
We handle company equipment and facilities  
with due care  
We treat with care the company equipment and facilities  
at our disposal for our daily work.This is what we do:
• We take responsibility that the facilities and 
materials provided to us, such as telephones, 
laptops, e-mail and intranet, internal social media 
platforms, copiers, mailrooms, and tools, are only 
used for business purposes consistent with local 
company policy.
• We are permitted to use corporate Internet access 
for private purposes – including external social 
media – consistent with local company policy.
• When we privately publish content on social 
media platforms and identify ourselves as 
Siemens Energy employees, we make it 
unmistakably clear, through a disclaimer or 
otherwise, that we are expressing our personal 
opinion and that it does not necessarily reflect 
the position of our company.
• We do not retrieve or share information that 
supports or encourages racial hatred, glorification 
of violence or other crimes, or content that is 
sexually offensive to a particular culture.
• We ensure that no recordings, files, images, or 
sound reproductions are made using our company’s 
equipment, unless it directly relates to our 
professional activity and our manager approves.
Our responsibility! !
29This is what we do:
• We collect and process personal data 
confidentially, only for legitimate, predetermined 
purposes, and in a transparent manner.
• We only process personal data if it is protected 
against loss, modification, and unauthorized use 
or disclosure by appropriate technical and 
organizational measures.
• We will immediately inform our company’s local 
Data Protection Organization of possible data 
protection violations.Data protection and privacy –  
we are aware of our responsibilities
The protection of personal data plays an important  
role in our digitized world. We handle it carefully and 
responsibly and respect everyone’s privacy.  
The loss or improper use of personal data can have 
serious consequences for the individuals concerned.  
It is therefore very important for Siemens Energy to 
ensure that this data is effectively protected and used 
only for legitimate purposes.All of us who handle the personal data of employees, 
customers, or third-parties bear a high level of responsibility.
Personal data is information about specific or 
identifiable natural persons, such as name and 
address, photos, personnel number, bank data, digital 
identifiers, or health data.
H   7
Our responsibility!
30The ten principles for cyber security  
(Charter of Trust) are:
01 Responsibility for cyber and IT security
02 Responsibility for the digital supply chain
03 Cyber security as the plant standard
04 Focusing on the needs of users
05 Innovation and co-creation
06 Making cyber security an integral part of training
07 Certification of critical infrastructures and IoT solutions
08 Increasing transparency and responsiveness
09 Regulatory framework
10 Promoting joint initiatives
 
More information about the Charter of Trust can  
be found at: www.charter-of-trust.comSiemens Energy stands for world-class quality and wants 
to inspire its customers with excellent and innovative 
products, services, and industry solutions.
Our top priority is the security of our portfolio for 
customers and all those who come into contact with it, 
and its legal conformity, quality, and environmental 
compatibility. Products and services sold by Siemens 
Energy do not pose unacceptable risks to life, health,  
or property. Compliance with applicable technical 
regulations for approval and marketing in our market 
countries is a fundamental requirement for the design 
and distribution of our products and services. We keep 
our technical promises (technical compliance).
In a world of “smart products” and ever-increasing 
digitalization, our aim is to fulfill the trust placed in 
Siemens Energy and in us.Our portfolio: world-class products, 
services, and industry solutions
I
Where can violations occur in the area  
of technical compliance?
• Active deception: Making declarations that contain 
false product information.
• Deception by omission: Omitting information about 
product defects at any point in their development, 
marketing, or use.
This is what we do:
• In our areas of responsibility, we ensure that our 
products, services, and industry solutions are safe 
and comply with applicable legal requirements in 
our market countries for their safety, approval, 
marketing, and use.
• We keep our technical promises.
• If we become aware of any quality, safety, or other 
conformity defects in our area of responsibility, or 
if there are any indications of such defects, we will 
follow-up and report them.
• We observe the ten principles of cybersecurity in 
everything we do.
Our responsibility
?!
31Business relationships with our customers,  
suppliers, and other business partners are fundamental  
to Siemens Energy.
We maintain business relationships only with reputable 
partners who comply with the law.
We protect the interests of our customers through  
the careful selection of suppliers and other business 
partners and through the standards we set for our  
own actions. That is why we cooperate with excellent  
partners worldwide.Our partners: we work  
with responsible partners
J
The Code of Conduct is based, among other things,  
on the UN Global Compact and the principles of  
the International Labor Organization, and it reflects  
the Siemens Energy Business Conduct Guidelines, which 
apply to the entire company.
The following principles apply to cooperation  
with our partners:  
• We work closely with our suppliers  
and business partners.
• We partner with our suppliers and help them improve.
• We constantly analyze our current business 
relationships and react immediately to emerging risks.
• We only work with suppliers who are prepared to 
eliminate problems or implement risk reduction measures.
• We conduct appropriate due diligence reviews, 
including compliance with export controls and  
anti-money laundering laws.
• We assess project risks when deciding whether  
to bid on a project.
This is what we do:
• We carefully select our suppliers and other 
business partners.
• We contractually oblige our suppliers and 
business partners to adhere to a uniform Siemens 
Energy Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers and 
Third-Party Intermediaries.
• Sustainability is a core element of our supplier 
management.
Our responsibility!
32Our commitment to international 
agreements and recommendations
Siemens Energy is participant of the United Nations 
Global Compact. Its ten principles are binding  
on the entire company.
We are committed to promoting these principles  
within our sphere of influence. Respect for human rights, 
fundamental employee rights, environmental protection, 
and the ban on corruption are an integral part of our business.Siemens Energy serves society wherever we operate.  
As a globally active company with innovative and 
investment capabilities, Siemens Energy shares 
responsibility for sustainable development worldwide 
and makes a variety of contributions to it. In addition, 
Siemens Energy is voluntarily and purposefully 
committed to promoting social concerns and needs.
In line with its commitment under the Global 
Compact, Siemens Energy expects us and our 
suppliers and business partners worldwide to comply 
with the following guidelines:
• International Bill of Human Rights, consisting of:
– Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
– International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; and
– International Covenant on Economic, Social and 
Cultural Rights.Our responsibility to society  
and the environment
• European Convention on Human Rights;
• ILO (International Labour Organization) Tripartite 
Declaration of Principles on Multinational Enterprises 
and Social Policy and ILO Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work, (in particular, on the 
following topics: elimination of child labor, abolition of 
forced labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of 
association, and the right to collective bargaining), 
and fundamental freedoms;• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises;
• Agenda 21 on sustainable development (final 
document of the fundamental UN Conference on 
Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro);
• UN Convention against Corruption; and
• OECD Convention against Bribery of Foreign  
Public Officials.
K
K   1
Our responsibility
33Human rights
Siemens Energy proclaims human rights are a core 
element of responsible business conduct and advocate 
for human rights in its value chain. Siemens Energy 
operates in close alignment with the United Nations’ 
guiding principles for business and human rights.
Compliance with the human rights laws and regulations 
is essential. Siemens Energy expects us to act in 
accordance with the principles of the Global Compact.
Key principles of the Global Compact
• Principle 1:  
Businesses support and respect the protection of 
internationally recognized human rights.
• Principle 2:  
Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in 
human rights abuses.
• Principles 3 to 6:  
Businesses recognize the essential requirements 
regarding workers’ rights.Which groups are particularly in need  
of protection?
These include – depending on the specific facts and  
legal circumstances – members of indigenous peoples, 
children, people with disabilities, and people who are 
disadvantaged or exposed to special risks because of 
their skin color, ethnic or social origin, religion, age, 
disability, sexual identity, worldview, or gender.This is what we do:
• We examine the decisions that we make on 
behalf of our company at an early stage for 
possible adverse effects on the human rights  
of others inside and outside Siemens Energy.
• We strive to avoid or mitigate negative effects  
on human rights that occur in connection with 
our business activities, regardless of whether 
Siemens Energy has caused or contributed  
to these effects.
• We respect the human rights of local 
communities and of people who are particularly 
vulnerable.
K   2
Our responsibility!

34
This is what we do:
• Climate protection is closely linked to energy 
consumption. We use energy rationally  
and efficiently.
• We try to avoid or recycle waste.
• We design our processes to achieve the best 
possible environmental compatibility of products 
and plants and avoid unnecessary emissions and 
noise pollution.Environment
Environmental protection is a corporate responsibility, 
social responsibility, and an important success factor for 
Siemens Energy. In all units of the company and in all 
countries in which we operate, it is our goal to protect 
the environment and conserve resources.
We work on environmental protection within the 
company and together with our customers, for example, 
by continuously improving energy and resource efficiency.
Siemens Energy expects us to engage in environmentally 
conscious behavior every day. We should be aware of our 
exemplary roles when it comes to the environment.What environmental programs does  
Siemens Energy have?
The Siemens Energy environmental programs are 
designed to conserve resources throughout the entire 
product life-cycle, reduce waste for disposal, and make 
our own business activities CO2 -neutral. The Siemens 
Energy Environmental Portfolio is our and our company’s 
response to climate change, resource scarcity, and 
threats to the environment.
Our company meets the ecological demands of its 
partners by developing future-oriented and resource-
efficient solutions, products, and business models. 
Consistent and innovative environmental protection 
management is an integral part of our business 
processes and goes beyond legal requirements.  
We exert an influence on environmental impacts at an 
early stage in product and production planning, not only 
in the manufacturing phase, but also in the design,  
sales, utilization, service, and disposal phases.  
Climate protection plays a particularly important role  
for our company.
K   3
Our responsibility!
Our reporting procedures
What to do if there are signs of 
possible misconduct?

36Siemens Energy expects us to report possible violations  
of the Business Conduct Guidelines. In so doing, we help 
to identify and eliminate misconduct and grievances and 
protect ourselves and the company against risks or 
damages that may result. 
 
We may report circumstances that indicate a violation 
of the Business Conduct Guidelines to the following 
persons or entities:
• Managers;
• Group  Compliance Officer;
• Compliance department  and Legal department;
• Human Resources personnel;
• “Speak Up” Hotline ;
• Siemens Energy Ombudsperson ;
• Employee representatives.
Information on possible violations of the Business 
Conduct Guidelines can be provided confidentially and  
anonymously as needed. Siemens Energy will examine all 
reports and take appropriate measures. Siemens Energy 
does not tolerate any retaliation against complainants or 
whistleblowers. Violations of this prohibition will be 
punished as compliance violations.All allegations of possible violations of the Business 
Conduct Guidelines are responded to in accordance with 
formal company-wide processes. These processes take 
into account the presumption of innocence and the 
participation rights of employee representatives where 
required by local policy. Siemens Energy will take 
appropriate disciplinary action in the event of 
demonstrable violations.
Siemens Energy will apply the same principles to 
allegations of wrongdoing brought by third-parties.
Our reporting procedures
37Agenda 21 32
Anticompetitive agreements 18
Antitrust law 18
Association meetings 19
Basic principles 6-10
Basic Principles of Communication 28
Basic working conditions 12
Books and records 15
Brand Design Hotline 21
Brand Siemens Energy 2-4, 7, 9, 12-17 , 19-37
Bribery 14, 15, 17, 32
Business decisions 14, 22
Business partners 3, 8, 17, 19, 22-25 , 31, 32
Charitable contributions 15, 16
Charter of Trust 30
Child labor 12, 32
Collective Action 20
Company equipment and facilities 28
Company information 27, 28
Company violations 4, 36
Computer Software 21
Confidential information  19, 26, 28
Conflict of interest  22, 23
Copyrights 21, 37
Corporate assets 21, 27
Corruption 14, 17, 32
Customs 20
Cyber security 30Damages 7, 18, 36
Data protection 29
Data Protection Organization 29
Dominant position 18, 19
Donations 15, 16
Employee representatives 12, 36
Employee stock ownership programs 26
Environmental compatibility 30, 34
Environmental programs 34
Environmental protection 32, 34
Equal treatment 12
European Convention on Human Rights 32
Export Control 20
Facilitation payments 15
Fair competition 14, 18
Financial integrity 25
Financial Reporting Guidelines 25
Fines 7
Gifts and hospitality 15, 16
Group  Compliance Officer  4, 36, 37
Health 12, 13, 29, 30
Hotline “Speak Up” 36
Human rights 32, 33
Insider 26, 28
Insider information 26, 28
Insider list 26
Insider trading 26Integrity 3, 4, 14, 20, 25
Integrity and compliance pacts 20
Intellectual property rights 21, 22
International agreements   
and recommendations 32
International Labour Organizations (ILO) 32
Investment in third-party companies 23
Involvement of third-parties 17
IT security 30
Legal and Compliance 7, 10, 14, 19, 24, 37
Managers 10, 22, 23, 26
Memberships 15, 16
Money laundering 24, 31
Occupational safety 12, 13
OECD Convention against Bribery  
of Foreign Public Officials 32
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 32
Ombudsperson 36
Open competition 18
Organizational and supervisory duties 10
Outgoing payments 17
Patents 21
Personal data 29
Personal security 12, 13
Portfolio 30, 34
Privacy 8, 29
Proper documentation 17
Quality 14, 21, 30
Quiet period 28Reporting procedures 9, 36
Reputational damage 22
Responsibility 10-24 , 32
Secondary employment 23
Social media 28
“Speak Up” 36
Sponsorships 15, 16
Suppliers 8, 18, 19, 26, 31, 32
Tax regulations 25
Technical compliance 30
Terrorism funding 24
Trade and export control regulations 20
Travel expenses 15, 16
Trust 18, 19, 21, 22, 25, 27, 30
UN Convention against Corruption 32
UN Global Compact 31, 32
Universal Declaration of Human Rights 32
Value chain 17, 33
Violations of the law 7
Whistleblowers 36
Working hours 12FS
G
H
QIR
L
M
OT
U
V
WPIndex
A
B
C D
E
Siemens Energy
Siemens Energy AG  
Legal and Compliance  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 München
 
 
For the publisher:
Dr. Anita Schieffer,  Group Compliance Officer
 
Edition:  2022
Copyrights:
All rights, also that of translation, reprint and copy, 
or parts thereof, are reserved.
This document will not be recalled in the event of 
any alterations.
 
Article No. LCXX-B10001-00-7600  
 
© Siemens Energy, 202 2
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG.
 
www.siemens-energy.com/compliance