siemens-energy.com/sustainabilitySustainability at  
Siemens Energy
Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023 
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 2The energy sector has the greatest levers – and a prime  
responsibility – for decarbonization. To support this, we have set 
ourselves ambitious targets across the entire value chain; this includes 
the aim to be climate neutral in our own operations by 2030.Climate neutral: 
Delivering on our 
commitments
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 3Our Climate Neutral Program is part of our commitment to decarboniza-
tion across the entire value chain. We are working hard to reduce emis-
sions within our own operations. Every ton of emissions counts.
The goal of the CNP is to become climate neutral in Siemens Energy’s own 
operations by 2030. The interim goal is to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas emissions – according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol – 
by 46% by 2025, compared to 2019. The integration of Siemens Gamesa 
into the CNP is ongoing.
Aiming at quick wins
Achieving climate neutrality in our sector and in a company of our size is 
an ambitious undertaking. Naturally, we started with where we could 
achieve rapid implementation and impact. The switch to green power was 
obvious. The challenge was the global scope, requiring collaboration 
between the Business Areas, our countries of operation, real estate, pro-
curement divisions, and the global sustainability team.The urgent call for more energy efficiency has struck a chord within the 
company. Saving primary energy makes good business sense, especially in 
times of rising costs. In fiscal year 2023, we managed to reduce our primary 
energy by 15% due to  reduced testing of gas turbines, energy efficiency 
measures, and consolidation of locations. 
The program’s levers are:
• Using renewable electricity: In fiscal year 2023 (i.e., by September 
30), we achieved our target of 100% of our electricity consumption com-
ing from renewable sources – globally.
• Reducing energy consumption and increasing electrification: We 
aim to reduce the consumption of primary energy and have energy effi-
ciency projects in place at various locations for buildings and process 
optimization.
• Reducing SF6 emissions: With our Blue Portfolio, we have set our -
selves the target to reduce our SF6-related emissions by 60% by 2030 
compared to a 2019 baseline.
• New mobility concepts: We are aiming for 100% CO2-neutral benefit 
cars by 2030 by implementing our car policy globally.
In 2023, we have achieved a reduction of emissions of CO2 equivalents 
(CO2e) of about 59% in Scopes 1 and 2 against 2019. This means we 
reached our milestone for 2025 two years earlier than anticipated. For 
more information on our achievements, see the  Decarbonization chapter 
in the Sustainability Report 2023 .Austria: Efficiency gains save energy
To advance our Climate Neutral Program, the Siemens Energy power 
transformer site in Linz (Austria) is following a clear path to decarbon-
ization. “We started two years ago by analyzing where our highest  
levels of CO2 emissions were,” explains Stefan Mehrl, Location Man-
ager at the Linz factory. “This led to a switch to electric process heat-
ing called “power-to-heat” to replace natural gas. Furthermore, we 
have executed various energy efficiency projects, including window 
adjustments, a partial conversion to LED lighting, changed hall lighting 
times, and the installation of a photovoltaic system.” This PV system 
covers approximately 30% of the site’s electricity demand, and two  
further phases of installation are planned. “More recently, we focused 
on the ventilation system for the production areas for insulating parts 
and winding,” Mehrl continues. “Our solution is night and weekend 
programs, reducing ventilation at times when it is not needed. This 
enabled us to save a third of the electricity required in the relevant 
areas.” The workforce has also learned about energy-saving measures 
and was encouraged to contribute and get updated on progress and 
results. For its energy efficiency measure of optimizing the ventilation 
system in the workshop in Linz, Siemens Energy received the 2023  
“klimaaktiv” award from the Austrian Ministry of Climate Protection.

Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 4Bigger challenges ahead
But the work has only just begun – it will get harder to significantly reduce 
our emissions the closer we get to climate neutrality. We are continuing to 
invest in infrastructure, including energy-saving measures, decarbonizing 
heating energy, and strategically looking into various options to decarbon-
ize manufacturing processes and testing sites. Our Business Areas are ini-
tially focusing on their respective top-ten emitting sites, covering approxi-
mately 60% of the emissions. They are working closely with the real estate 
department to implement decarbonization measures and upgrades. In par -
allel, operations at country level are investigating measures relating to the 
car fleet and logistics. 
Our Business Area Grid Technologies (GT) faces a particular challenge in 
reducing leakages of sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), a greenhouse gas with a 
global warming potential 23,500 times higher than CO2 that makes up 
more than 50% of the Scope 1 and 2 emissions. The gas is used in cylin-
der-shaped insulators in high-voltage switchgears, where leakages can 
occur. Now we are in the process of moving to an SF6-free Blue Portfolio, 
based on technical air insulation and vacuum switching technology. Our 
aim is to reduce our SF6-related emissions by 60% until 2030, compared to 
2019 levels. In fiscal year 2023, we achieved a reduction of 57% compared 
to the base year and of 11% compared to fiscal year 2022.
With all these measures combined, and even more to come, we aim to 
continue to deliver on our target to become climate neutral by 2030 step 
by step.Energy-saving measures
Manufacturing  
process
Testing sitesDecarbonizing  
heating energyBrazil: Carbon fee funds journey to net zero
Carbon pricing can be an effective instrument to incorporate the  
external cost of climate-related damage into the prices of products  
and services. As a company measure, defining a virtual price per ton  
of greenhouse gas emissions creates an incentive to lower emissions. 
This contributes to a more realistic picture of the cost of investments 
by considering potential damage that an investment can cause in the 
long run. As part of our Climate Neutral Program in Brazil, we have 
attached a fee to the emissions of CO2 equivalents (CO2e) arising from 
the manufacturing of our products (Scopes 1 and 2). The Business Area 
raises funds that are reinvested to provide capital for our journey to cli-
mate neutrality. Since fiscal year 2020, the scheme has gathered some 
€356,000, which we are investing in eight projects, saving around 650 
tons of CO2e. Employees are encouraged to submit project ideas that 
contribute to emission savings and low abatement costs. Projects are 
selected based on potential savings. One example is our investment in 
high-efficiency motors, replacing the electric motors of exhausters, 
vacuum systems, air conditioners, air compressors, fan coils, and older 
production equipment with more efficient, economical motors, lead-
ing to energy savings and a less negative environmental impact. 60 
such motors have been selected for replacement in three waves until 
fiscal year 2024, with the total investment of about €100,000 financed 
through the internal carbon fee. On average, each replaced motor con-
tributes to 8.5% of energy savings, with the scheme expected to avoid 
57 tons of CO2e per year and recover some €195,000 of savings within 
ten years.

Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 5At Siemens Energy, our mission is to support our customers in transition-
ing to a more sustainable world based on our innovative technologies and 
our ability to turn ideas into reality. Our goal is to become the world’s lead-
ing energy technology company with a focus on sustainability. 
Our portfolio, extensive energy experience, and ambitious strategy to 
decarbonize global energy systems are all central to our efforts to be a val-
ued partner and driver of the energy transition. Siemens Energy is one of 
the largest suppliers of technology in the energy and electricity sector, 
serving the entire scope of the energy market. 
With our broad portfolio of products, solutions, and services, we cover 
almost the entire energy value chain – from low- or zero-emission power 
generation, transmission, and storage to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions and optimizing energy consumption in industrial processes, 
complemented by a wide range of training and service offers. This portfo-
lio allows us to address the different speeds at which the energy transition 
is moving forward.
Our company structure
In May 2022, Siemens Energy announced its tender offer to acquire all 
remaining shares in Siemens Gamesa. The tender offer concluded in 
December 2022, and following a corresponding purchase order, Siemens 
Energy held around 98% of Siemens Gamesa shares. In June 2023, the 
minority shareholders of Siemens Gamesa approved a capital reduction, 
thus paving the way for the company’s full integration into Siemens 
Energy, which now holds 100% of the Siemens Gamesa shares. Company overview
Siemens Energy changed its corporate and reporting structure as of fiscal 
year 2023. As a result, the former Divisions of the reportable segment Gas 
and Power (GP) have been newly structured into Gas Services (GS), Grid 
Technologies (GT), and Transformation of Industry (TI), which together 
with Siemens Gamesa now form the four Business Areas of the Siemens 
Energy Group. 
You can find more information on our set-up in the  Sustainability Report 
2023 . 
As of September 30, 2023, Siemens Energy employs about 96,000 people 
in more than 90 countries worldwide.
 Orders
(in billions of €)
~ 50~ 31Revenue
(in billions of €)Key financial indicators
~ 112Order backlog
(in billions of €)
Our company structure
Gas Services Siemens Gamesa Transformation  
of IndustryGrid Technologies Siemens Energy
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 6Our world is facing an ever-increasing need for a reliable and affordable energy 
supply to support economic development and ensure stable societies. At 
Siemens Energy, we believe innovative technologies are the key to combating 
climate change. 
With our portfolio that spans the energy value chain as well as with our global 
setup, we are in a unique position to shape the energy transition and support 
global development toward net zero. However, to achieve this, it is key that we 
set the course today to be prepared for the future. 
We will continue our journey toward a sustainable portfolio that will drive prof-
itable growth for our company. Based on our three strategic pillars that are 
fundamental to achieving this goal, we are continuously developing new prod-
ucts and technologies that have either zero emissions or significantly lower 
emissions than comparable technologies. We focus on the following levers:
• Expand renewables
• Transform conventional power
• Strengthen electricity grids
• Drive industry decarbonization
• Secure supply chainsStrategic focus
Our Sustainability Program is integrated into our company strategy. The 
program is structured around topics that help us to contribute to the most 
relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and be a sustainability leader in the industry. The SDGs and their related targets are fostering a 
new understanding of how economic development can be reconciled with 
social and environmental challenges. To ensure our efforts have the big-
gest impact, we focus our activities on SDG 5, 7, 8, 9 and 13.
At the core of our Sustainability Program is the goal to decarbonize energy 
systems along the entire value chain. With our commitment to responsible 
operations, we are also leveraging Siemens Energy’s societal impact. Our 
ESG rating results show that we are continuously improving our perfor -
mance. You can find more information on our ambition and program in 
the  Sustainability Report 2023 . 
Our businesses, regional entities, and central functions are responsible for 
implementing the Sustainability Program. Major achievements and exam-
ples from the businesses are highlighted on the following pages.
 Our Sustainability Program
We  
energize  
societyDecarbonizing
our business
Responsible
operations•  Climate-neutral own  
operations
• Product stewardship• Employee engagement
•  Conservation of resources•  Net zero products,  
services, and solutions
• Societal engagement• Human rights• Compliance & integrity•  Decarbonized supply chain
• People development• Inclusion & diversity•  Occupational health & safetyWe focus on building our company based on three strategic pillars:Our strategic pillars
Reducing GHG footprint 
and energy consumption 
in industrial processesTransport and  
storage of electricityLow- or zero-emission 
power generation
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 7Sustainability performance highlights
Customers and innovation
Innovation is key to creating the future. We value co-creation and 
partner with our customers to decarbonize energy systems.
Innovation is the core of our business. Our simple, fast, and  
unified approach to R&D has three elements:57 
Net Promoter Score (NPS)¹
€ 1.1  billion 
investment in R&DFocus 
We select, prioritize,  
and commit to ideas 
from a strategic 
perspectiveAccelerate 
We accelerate ideas 
to maturity through 
dedicated channelsSustain 
We strive for  
tangible returns and 
measurable value 
creation
¹ Index measuring willingness of customers to recommend a company’s products or services to others, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).Decarbonization
Climate neutrality  
in our own operations  
by 2030Net zero  
supply chainNet zero  
products, services,  
and solutionsOur strategy to decarbonize global energy systems is based on our aspiration 
to reach net zero across the entire value chain, in line with the 1.5°C target.
Target reduction  
of Scope 1 + 2  
GHG emissions³  
by 2025:  
46%
² kg CO2e/€ PVO spent, base year 2018. ³ base year 2019. ⁴ SBTi = Science Based Targets initiative, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa). ⁵ Target year 2030.Target reduction  
of relative Scope 3  
GHG emissions in our  
supply chain by 2030²:  
30%Status 19%
Target reduction  
of SF6 emissions⁵ 
compared to 2019:  
60%Status 57%Status 59% Status 27%
Status 100%Commitment  
via SBTi⁴:  
28%  
reduction of GHG from 
the use of sold products  
by 2030³
Target:  
100%  
share of renewable 
electricity by 2023
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 8Selected examples for innovation and decarbonization
Green steel production
Producing steel is an energy-intensive and climate-impacting process. Pio-
neering steel producers in Europe are investing in Green Steel, using an 
electric arc furnace instead of a coal-fired furnace and hydrogen as a 
reducing agent. Siemens Energy is supplying substations with transform-
ers and switchgear to Salcos and Feralpi Stahl to power their electric arc 
furnaces in the steel rolling mills. Feralpi Stahl has chosen our F-gas-free 
switchgear, eliminating the use of SF6. Siemens Gamesa is also looking to 
utilize more sustainable steel in its GreenerTower, which consists of 
approximately 80% steel plates. The new GreenerTower will lead to a CO2 
reduction of at least 63% in the tower steel plates compared to conven-
tional steel, while maintaining the same steel properties and quality.Siemens Energy transformer factory in Nuremberg.
Enabling the co-firing of hydrogen in gas-run power 
stations
The German utility company EnBW and Siemens Energy are jointly devel-
oping the use of green hydrogen as a climate-friendly fuel in future power 
plants. One pilot project we regard as important is the EnBW district heat-
ing power plant in Stuttgart-Münster, where natural gas is expected to ini-
tially replace coal in approximately three years. All systems are constructed 
from the very beginning to allow natural gas to be replaced with hydrogen 
as quickly and completely as possible. Two SGT-800 gas turbines from 
Siemens Energy are at the heart of the installation. We estimate that green 
hydrogen will be available in sufficient quantities within ten to twelve 
years. Similarly, one of Austria’s largest gas turbines was in the process of 
being rebuilt on the site of the Donaustadt power plant in the reporting 
year. Before the end of fiscal year 2023, the consortium of Wien Energie, 
RheinEnergie, Siemens Energy, and Verbund plans to add hydrogen for 
power generation for the first time as part of an operational trial. The trial 
will be the first of its kind in the world at a commercial combined-cycle gas 
turbine plant in this power class.Gas turbine maintenance at the Donaustadt power plant.
Transforming the oil & gas sector with bio-methanol
Siemens Energy and The Net Zero Technology Centre (NZTC) have show -
cased an SGT-A20 gas turbine running on 100% bio-methanol. The world’s 
first test of its kind, conducted in February at the RWG test facility in Aber -
deen, demonstrated that methanol is a viable alternative fuel. The demon-
stration test showed a reduction in NOX emissions of 80% as well as a 
reduction in CO, SOX and the elimination of smoke in the exhaust. There 
are various forms of methanol where bio-methanol reduces CO2 emissions 
by up to 75% (compared to a diesel baseline) and e-methanol is carbon 
neutral. The SGT-A20 test demonstrated a retrofittable solution to enable 
the use of methanol as a low-carbon alternative fuel in the offshore oil and 
gas industry. By modifying existing assets and testing innovative technolo-
gies and fuels, we believe there is potential to transform the existing oil 
and gas sector, protect and create jobs, and show that immediate changes 
can reduce emissions.
Gas turbine powered by a hundred percent methanol.
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 9Sustainability performance highlights
² Excluding construction and other waste. 
¹ Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.Occupational health and safety 
Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, 
partners, contractors, and suppliers is our utmost priority.
2.67 
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 
of employees and contractors¹Product stewardship
Our approach to product stewardship includes all environmental aspects, 
with a strong focus on climate change adaptation and resource efficiency.
73% 
coverage of  
portfolio by life cycle 
assessments  
(LCA)Conservation of resources
We aim to minimize our impact on the environment. Our environmental 
management systems are founded on the principles and elements of the 
international ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 standards or energy audits.
3.25  million m3 
water consumption82% 
share of recycling²Zero Harm Framework
We promote a strong Zero Harm culture that aims to prevent injuries 
and adverse effects on people and the environment.
4 
Principles6 
Behaviors8 
Essentials
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 10Selected examples of responsible operations
Zero Harm Champions League
The Zero Harm Champions League was announced on Zero Harm Day  
and is designed to recognize teams that demonstrate outstanding perfor -
mance in one or more of the Zero Harm Behaviors or Essentials. A total  
of 300 teams applied, and this fiscal year, 14 teams were selected to join 
the champions league based on their deep commitment to health, safety, 
and environmental practices in their daily actions. The winners were per -
sonally congratulated by Siemens Energy’s board members and shared 
their best practices and lessons learned with other teams across the orga-
nization.Setting an example for health and safety in the workplace.
Green factory in Nuremberg
The Nuremberg power transformer factory has installed a highly innova-
tive solar system on its exterior façade. The flexible photovoltaic modules 
are made from 2 mm thin hydrocarbon-based materials that are ultra-light-
weight. The flexible film has the worldʼs lowest carbon footprint and can 
be thermally recycled at the end of its life cycle. The use of the photovol-
taic film opens up new possibilities for utilizing additional areas on the fac-
toryʼs premises to generate solar power. The site has also established a 
12-acre green area for native plants, insects, and small animals on a former 
sports compound. Smaller and previously unused open spaces have also 
been converted into flowering meadows, creating a habitat for insects and 
six bee colonies. The transformer factory beesʼ blossom honey is a popular 
gift for our customers.Installation of flexible photovoltaic film modules on Nuremberg power transformer 
factory.
Sustainable balsa wood as a core material for wind 
turbine blades 
To reduce the environmental impact of wind turbine blades, Siemens 
Gamesa is exploring the use of balsa wood in the structural core of their 
blades. Balsa wood is classified as hardwood, and it is light and adaptable. 
These properties make it ideal for many applications including wind tur -
bine blades, marine, and other mobility applications. Balsa wood is 
fast-growing and does not require the use of fertilizers or other added 
resources, so, like bamboo, it can be grown more sustainably. In Central 
America, where it is native, balsa wood is self-sowing in sometimes incon-
venient spots. Balsa can therefore be grown and harvested with little envi-
ronmental impact. Siemens Gamesaʼs goal is to purchase balsa wood that 
has been responsibly sourced to fight illegal logging. The suppliers used 
are required to be certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, DNV-GL, or 
similar schemes, have signed our Code of Conduct, and are monitored 
regularly.
Reducing the environmental impact of wind turbine blades.
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 11Sustainability performance highlights
Societal engagement
Our global engagement addresses needs in 
the countries in which we operate.
€ 2.59  million 
total donations¹ SE (excluding Siemens Gamesa).
Compliance & integrity
Our company-wide zero-tolerance approach aims to 
ensure a strong culture of business ethics and compliance.
Our Business Conduct 
Guidelines are binding 
for all executives and 
employees worldwide.95%  
of employees 
trained on our 
Business Conduct 
GuidelinesWorking at Siemens Energy
Our People Agenda promotes a thriving environment, game-changing leaders, 
and a vibrant workforce.
Share of females
Training hours
12 
Total average training hours per employeein top leadership positions¹ 
in fiscal year 2023 
28%Our target in top leadership positions 
by 2025
25%by 2030 
30%Sustainable supply chain management
We apply stringent environmental and social standards to contribute to a 
sustainable supply chain.
€ 23.5  billion 
procurement volume97%  
increase in  
supplier self- 
assessments16%  
increase in external 
sustainability  
audits
Human rights
We are committed to ensuring respect for human rights 
along the value chain within our sphere of influence.
We conduct human rights due 
diligence for our customer projects.
Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 12Selected examples of responsible operations
Decarbonization efforts in the Chinese supply chain
Siemens Energy China is working toward building a sustainable and con-
nected supplier network as part of the global supplier decarbonization pro-
gram. The procurement teams engaged with and encouraged more than 
300 suppliers to implement decarbonization measures, and requested sup-
pliers to increase their green electricity coverage to at least 70%. Proactive 
measures were taken to communicate with internal and external stake-
holders, and a competitive price for green electricity certificates (I-REC) 
was successfully negotiated for the suppliersʼ network. In fiscal year 2023, 
about 52% of the suppliers had implemented decarbonization measures, 
with the other suppliers continuing to be further monitored. To provide 
additional support, the team also conducted decarbonization knowledge 
training, attended by around 130 suppliers.Tackling the decarbonization challenge head on.
Human rights program in Brazil
Large enterprises contribute to and support local and national development, 
but they also impact the surrounding population, with children and ado-
lescents being even more vulnerable to these impacts. In Brazil, Siemens 
Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) developed a human rights program in 
partnership with the Childhood Foundation. The program aims to tackle sex-
ual abuse and the exploitation of children and adolescents living in the com-
munities surrounding major construction sites of Siemens Energy. Siemens 
Energy Brazil has committed itself to adopting principles and procedures 
that contribute to promoting and guaranteeing the rights of children and 
adolescents in Brazil. This includes raising awareness among and providing 
guidance to employees and third parties on the protection of children and 
adolescents, performing human rights impact assessments for projects 
involving construction sites, defining an action plan to prevent and address 
the sexual exploitation of children and adolescents, and finally, promoting 
decent working conditions for employees and third parties (guidelines on 
quality of life, housing, food, leisure, and commuting for workers).
Recognition for promoting LGBTQIA+ rights in Mexico 
To strengthen the rights of the LGBTQIA+ community in Mexico, the 
Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Foundation launched the sixth annual “HRC 
Equidad MX: Programa Global de Equidad Laboral” in December 2022. The 
program is modeled after HRCʼs Corporate Equality Index, the premier 
LGBTQIA+ workplace equality benchmarking survey in the U.S., and aims 
to evaluate LGBTQIA+ workplace inclusion at major Mexican businesses 
and multinationals. Siemens Energy received certification and earned top 
ratings in the 2023 report. This recognition was based on our Proud2bMe 
strategy to deploy actions specifically to promote inclusion and visibility 
for the LGBTQIA+ community in our local organization. This includes train-
ing, campaigns, safe helplines, and surveys to understand the key chal-
lenges the community is facing.
Celebrating differences and diversity at Siemens Energy.
Digital engineering laboratory for the University of 
Lagos 
Siemens Energy established a state-of-the-art engineering laboratory for 
students at the University of Lagos, Nigeria, to support their learning in 
programmable logic controller (PLC) programming. With this investment, 
we are providing appropriate tools to support future generations in devel-
oping the skills necessary to tackle the challenges of energy security and 
energy transition. To further improve learning and develop better social 
interaction among students, Siemens Energy also added a calming room 
environment designed to help students and faculty decompress, destress, 
and get ready to learn. Siemens Energy donates engineering laboratory to the University of Lagos.

Siemens Energy Summary of the Sustainability Report 2023Page 13Decarbonizing our business Responsible operationsOur sustainability performance 
Performance indicator Unit 2023 2022
Greenhouse gas emissions
Scope 1+2 emissions
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 182 215
thereof SF6 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 32 35
thereof fleet 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 25 32
Scope 3 downstream emissions¹
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 1,098,370 1,252,319²
intensity metric tons CO2 e/ 
€ order intake0.022 0.033
Scope 3 upstream emissions³
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 9,230 9,182
intensity kg CO2 e/€ PVO spent 0.414 0.451
Energy
Energy consumption million gigajoule 5.19 5.80
Share of green electricity % 100 90Performance indicator Unit 2023 2022
Research & development
Research & development expenses million € 1,123 1,078
Sustainable supply chain management
External sustainability audits at suppliers no. 194 167
Waste
Waste recycling and recovery rate % 82 81
Water
Water consumption million cubic meters 3.25 3.45
Product stewardship
Portfolio coverage by Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) % 73 72
Employees
Share of women in overall workforce % 20 20
Share of women in top leadership positions⁴ % 28 22
Training hours per employee no. 12.0 10.3
Occupational health and safety
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of employees and contractors⁵ no. 2.67 2.27
Societal engagement
Donations million € 2.59 3.62¹ Includes category “use of sold products” only (well-to-tank emissions are included, biogenic emissions have been excluded). Siemens Gamesaʼs emissions equal zero.
²  Fiscal year 2022 emissions were recalculated to reflect the reduction of the expected lifetime for gas and steam turbines in power generation from 30 years to 28 years and 
an H2 co-firing project in fiscal year 2022.
³  Includes categories “purchased goods and services“ and “transportation and distribution” only. 2022 data was adjusted to include Siemens Gamesa. Due to the partially 
undefined material codes of the purchasing volume at Siemens Gamesa, approximately 10% of the CO2e emissions were extrapolated. In fiscal year 2023, 325 kilotons of 
the 9,230 kilotons CO2e emissions were calculated using a consumption-based method.
⁴    Excluding Siemens Gamesa.
⁵  Total Recordable Injury Rate: Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed. Recordable injuries are accidents that result in lost time, restricted 
work, or medical treatment. 
 siemens-energy.com
 x.com/Siemens_Energy
 linkedin.com/siemens-energy
For the full sustainability report see:  
 www.siemens-energy.com/sustainability-report-23
Published by
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com  
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com  
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
siemens-energy.com/sustainability  
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.