SGT5-9000HL Heavy-duty gas turbine (50 Hz) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SGT5-9000HL gas turbine The next generation of advanced air-cooled gas turbines Our HL-class gas turbines are paving the way to the next level of efficiency and performance. Derived from proven H-class technology in an evolutionary development step, the next generation of advanced air-cooled gas turbines uses a series of new, but already tested technologies like super-efficient internal cooling features for blades or vanes and an advanced combustion system to increase firing temperature. The result: A technology carrier to the next level with a combined cycle efficiency beyond 64%, with a midterm goal of even higher efficiencies. The HL-class consists of two engines: The SGT5-9000HL for 50 Hz, and the SGT6-9000HL for 60 Hz. Explore our interactive gas turbine portfolio World record holder  for the SGT5-9000HL Gas Turbine at SSE Thermal’s Keadby 2 Power Station in North Lincolnshire, UK Keadby2 Power Station: the future of power generation in the UK Read the story template-360-siemens Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Discover the key facts of the HL-class and watch the video Visit web page Highlights of the SGT5-9000HL Fast start-up capability The gas turbine is capable of world-class fast cold starts and hot re-starts due to the light and stiff rotor with internal cooling air passages and free thermal expansion of rotor and casing parts during transients. Hydraulic Clearance Optimization (HCO), an active clearance control,  ensures robustness and low turbine degradation at start-up. GT ramp-up rate 85 MW/min. Advanced combustion system for high efficiency (ACE) The advanced can-annular combustion system with dual fuel capability allows for higher firing temperatures and more operational flexibility. 25 premix burners improve the fuel/oxygen mixing. The ACE combustion system allows for GT turn-down to 30% minimum environmental load. Advanced coatings All turbine blades and vanes are equipped with an innovative multi-layer thermal barrier coating. This leads to higher combined cycle efficiency due to less cooling air consumption and reduced operational costs due to higher blade robustness. Minimized maintenance costs and outage times The HL-class has been designed to minimize outage times. Rotor de-stacking can easily be done on site thanks to the Hirth-serrated disc assembly. All rotating compressor and turbine blades can be replaced without rotor lift or rotor de-stacking. Turbine blade 1 and turbine blade 4 are removable without cover lift. With 33kEBH service intervals the service concept is very competitive. Easy plant integration Due to proven and validated package and plant concepts the HL-class can easily be integrated in our power plants for simple cycle or combined cycle operation. This enables fast project execution. More than 50,0000  hours are saved on site due to modularized design and pre-engineered solutions. Derived from proven H-class technology The new HL-class is based on the reliable engine architecture of the SGT-8000H series with design features that have proved reliability in operation for years: Hydraulic Clearance Optimization (HCO) Single tie bolt with Hirth serration 4-stage air-cooled turbine Can-annular combustion system Core engine Key technology Power plants Service Fuels Emissions When experience meets evolutionary innovation Based on proven design and relying on the vast fleet experience of the SGT-8000H series, the new SGT5-9000HL combines the best of past experience with newly developed technologies. Thus, efficiency and performance are pushed to the next level. The HL-class consists of two engines: The SGT5-9000HL for 50 Hz, and the SGT6-9000HL for 60 Hz. A modular design approach allows for a substantial number of common parts. The  HL-class is designed for high operational flexibility and has a joint DNA with the proven Siemens Energy H-class: Air-cooled 4-stage turbine, steel rotor / hirth serration / single tie bolt design, Hydraulic Clearance Optimization (HCO), c an-annular combustion system One portfolio with common design Common parts minimize manufacturing risks and shorten lead times Rapid answer to the grid World-class fast cold starts and hot-restarts due to the light and stiff rotor with internal cooling air passages Tested technologies for higher efficiency and performance To achieve top performance and efficiency levels, the HL-class turbines are operating at highest combustion temperatures with an advanced combustion system.An innovative multi-layer thermal barrier coating and super-efficient internal cooling features are protecting turbine blades and vanes while reducing the need of cooling air. Additionally, advanced 3D blading leads to higher aero efficiency in the compressor.  A free-standing, internally cooled turbine blade 4 reduces exhaust losses and allows for higher exhaust temperatures to enhance the water-steam cycle. Evolutionary 3D blading for higher aero efficiency Advanced combustion system for higher firing temperatures and more operational flexibility Innovative multi-layer coating and ultra-efficient internal cooling features for blades and vanes for better blade robustness and less cooling air consumption Large free-standing turbine blade 4 for higher power output Plug-and-Play power core Siemens Energy has re-invented the methodology for plant construction with a modular Power Core™.The Power Core™ consists of prefabricated Siemens Energy Solution Blocks and prefabricated pipe racks. These plug-and-play blocks are fabricated and tested in a controlled manufacturing environment and delivered to site as large modules which can be lifted into place for assembly. This results in increased safety on site, accelerated schedules, less dependence on the availability of skilled local labor and in the end lower project risk. HL-class power plants are based on one or more HL-class gas turbines and can achieve more than 64% efficiency in combind cycle operation: SCC5-9000HL 1x1: 880 MW SCC5-9000HL 2x1: 1,760 MW Designed for low maintenance costs and short outage times All components are designed with high focus on optimized LCOE, highest availability and serviceability. Several service features are supporting this. All rotating blades replaceable without rotor lift/rotor de-stacking Easy rotor de-stacking on site due to disc assembly with Hirth serration and central tie rod All turbine vanes and blades replaceable without rotor lift; vane 1, blades 1 & 4 replaceable without cover lift Tremendous service fleet experience and continuous development result in a competitive service concept with 33,000 Equivalent Base Hours (EBH) / 1,250 Equivalent Starts (ES). We offer Long Term Programs (LTP) , overhaul services, field service, spare parts, reconditioning of components and modernization upgrades. Whether scheduled service or short-term support, our specialists are there for you, on-site all over the world. Fast maintenance with service-friendly design for reduced down times Simplified outage through easy burner replacement thanks to innovative robot technology (picture: exemplary application – SGT5-8000H burner replacement) Fuel flexibility matters The SGT6-9000HL runs on natural gas, LNG, distillate oil, or other fuels. The engine is equipped with DLE burners and has the capability to burn up to 50 vol% of hydrogen (H₂). Designed to fullfil environmental requirements While reaching highest levels of performance and efficiency, the HL-class is still complying with NOx and CO regulations. NOx emissions: Down to 2 ppmvd (with SCR), or ≤25 ppmvd (without SCR). Technical data for the SGT5-9000HL Simple cycle power generation Combined cycle power generation Physical dimensions Performance data for simple cycle power generation Power output 593 MW(e) Fuel (examples) Natural gas, LNG, distillate oil. Other fuels on request Frequency 50 Hz GT ramp-up 85 MW/min Gross efficiency > 43% Heat rate < 8,375 kJ/kWh (< 7,938 Btu/kWh) Turbine speed 3,000 rpm Pressure ratio 24.0 : 1 Exhaust mass flow 1,050 kg/s (2,315 lb/s) Exhaust temperature 670°C (1.238°F) NOₓ emissions down to 2 ppmvd with SCR, down to 25 ppmvd without SCR CO emissions 10 ppmvd Simple cycle ratings are  gross at ISO conditions natural gas fuel. Actual ratings will vary with project specific conditions and fuel. Performance data for combined cycle power plant SGT5-9000HL CC 1x1 SGT5-9000HL CC 2x1 Frequency 50 Hz 50 Hz Gross plant output 880 MW 1,760 MW Gross plant efficiency >64 % > 64% Plant turn down < 40% < 40% Gross heat rate <5,625 kJ/kwh (<5331 Btu/kWh) < 5,625 kJ/kWh (< 5,331 Btu/kWh) Number of gas turbines 1 2 Pressure/reheat Triple/yes Triple/Yes Steam temperature >600° C (>1,112 ° F) > 600° C (> 1,112° F) Combined cycle ratings are gross at ISO conditions natural gas fuel. Actual ratings will vary with project specific conditions and fuel. Physical dimensions and weight Core turbine Approx. weight 497,000 kg (1,095,700 lb) Length 13.0 m (42.6 ft) Width 5.3 m (17.4 ft) Height 5.5 m (18.1 ft) SGT-9000HL: A dream comes true … Personal reflections after one year of testing: “I would be lying if I said I didn’t hold my breath during that first start-up a year ago. In some ways, it felt like I was holding my breath for five years, building up to that moment. What a thrill it was to see all burners lit up, the first time we tried Read full article here Find out more about our gas turbine offerings In our download section, you can find brochures, technical papers, and more. Or you can contact us directly for specific inquiries. Fact sheet and technical paper HL-class fact sheet PDF (443 KB) Download HL-class whitepaper 2020: "A decade in the making – Siemens Energy HL-class now delivers power to the grid" PDF (1 MB) Download Gas turbine portfolio (interactive PDF) PDF (18 MB) Download Articles and papers Technical papers Download Poster SGT-9000HL PDF (130 KB) Download Siemens Energy HL-class gas turbines are based on proven H-class technology Around 85 Siemens Energy H-class turbines in commercial operation, with more than 2 million fired fleet hours. Overall, about 100 units are under contract. io.visual.referencemap Lincoln County CT Addition, North Carolina – USA Groundbreaking 2018 Turnkey plant, subject to innovative agreement between Siemens Energy and Duke Energy to test and validate advanced gas turbine technologies over several years Start of testing SGT6-9000HL: 2020 Tested technologies will lead to combined cycle efficiency > 64% and a combined cycle power output of 577 MW Fast-ramping peakers support solar and bridge the way to net zero Groundbreaking 2018 Turnkey plant, subject to innovative agreement between Siemens Energy and Duke Energy to test and validate advanced gas turbine technologies over several years Start of testing SGT6-9000HL: 2020 Tested technologies will lead to combined cycle efficiency > 64 Read more Free whitepaper download The climate case for hydrogen technologies in Vietnam Vietnam’s Mekong Delta is extremely vulnerable to climate change. Learn how hydrogen technologies can help Vietnam reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve carbon-free power sector (English/Tiếng Việt). Read more A cleaner power sector for Vietnam Nearly 80% of Vietnamese citizens are concerned about air pollution. Learn how a cleaner power sector can help Vietnam improve air quality (English/Tiếng Việt). Read more Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025