White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
Frei verwendbar   © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  1 
 
 
  
siemens -energy.com   
siemens -energy.com  e-Methanol  
A universal green fuel  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
Frei verwendbar   © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  2  
 
 
siemens -energy.com   Content s 
01 Introduction  
01 Decarbonization of global energy systems  
02     Carbon -free and carbon -neutral energy carriers  
03     Methanol markets today and tomorrow  
02 Methanol – characteristics and conversion processes  
01 Conventional Methanol and e -Methan ol 
02     CO2 sources for green e -Methanol  
03     e-Fuels derived from e -Methanol  
   Methanol -to-Gasoline process  
   Fischer -Tropsch synthesis  
03 Economic  factors  and use -cases of e -Methanol for transport  sector  
01 Cost and prices  
02     Use-cases in the transport sector  
   Road transportation  
   Shipping  
   Aviation  
04 Roadmap for implementing e -Methanol  
01 Pilot and demonstration plants  
02     Large -scale production  
 
05  An e-Methanol economy – Vison or fantasy?  
 
 
 
White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  3 1 Introduction  
Decarb onization of global energy systems  
Global emissions of CO 2, the most important greenhouse gas , are continuously  increasing and were predicted  to reach  33 
Gt in the year 2019. While significant progress has been made in the power sector over the last one to two decades , with 
a growing share of rene wable energy sources of roughly 22  percent , the rate of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission  in other 
sectors ha s stagnated or even increased. In the meantime, governments are putting more and more focus on 
decarbonizing the transport, industry , and heat ing secto rs. 
Today , 40 percent  of global emissions are from electricity production (Figure 1 ). Due to the steadily improving economics 
of solar PV and wind power generation, and increasing improvement s in electricity storage costs, the fu ture 
decarbonization of the power sector will gradually progress. In contrast , the industry and transport sectors are together 
responsible for 45  percent  of the world’s  CO 2-emissions. In these sectors, r enewable energy sou rces (RES) have only 
reduced emissions by eight percent . Decarboniz ing these sectors  is more complex and costly compar ed with  the power 
sector,  and it will most likely come from a  combination of electrification and carbon -neutral fuels and feedstocks.  
 
Figure 1: Energy related global CO 2-emissions and their shares by sectors .   
It is no surprise, that carbon -free and carbon -neutral energy carriers, that are based on green hydrogen  have recently be-
come the focus of attention. Renewable electricity product ion costs have dropped to levels far below €25/MWh el at many 
favorable locations around the globe. Green  hydrogen and synthetic e -fuels based on renewable electricity are therefore 
seen as favorites for decarboniz ing those sectors, which are not easy to electrify and still use energy carriers with a high 
carbon footprint.  
 

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  4 Carbon -free and carbon -neutral energy carriers  
e-Fuels and biofuels are highly relevant for reduci ng CO 2-emissions , especially in the transport sector . Using existing 
infrastructures (distribution, filling stations), this sector’s deep decarbonization is expected to come from these carbon -
neutral e -fuels. On the other hand , there is a common understanding that global b iofuel resources are limited , and 
thereby their contribution to decarbonizing of energy systems is limited as well. Furthermore, the restrictions on food -
based biofuels will become tighter in the future and shrink  these resources even more. e-Fuels are per ceived as the only 
option for provid ing large volumes of carbon -neutral liquid fuel s in the future (Figure 2).  
 
Figure 2: Low  CO 2-emission fuel options for global transport in million s of tons (source: IEA statistics 2019)  
Compressed gaseous green hydrogen and liquid e -fuels provide important benefits . They are extremely  energy -dense, 
easy to store and in addition to serving  as energy carriers , they can be used as carbon -free or low -CO 2 feedstock for indus-
trial and chemical processes. The m ost prominent hydrogen -based synthetic e -fuels feedstocks are e -Methane, e -Metha-
nol and e -Ammonia. Each has its own characteristics in terms of production process, combustion features, and safety that 
mee t the requirements of their various use cases.  
 
Methanol markets today and tomorrow  
Methanol is a universal chemical compound  that today is still being produced from coal and natural gas -derived synthesis 
gas (H 2 and CO). It is used in large quantaties  (more than 98 Mt in 2019), primarily  as a feedstock for chemicals (80  
percent ) and in smaller volumes as an energy carrier (20  percent ). The largest  volumes and strongest growth over the last 
five years have been  methanol -to-olefin conversion and formaldehyde -production. The production of conventional 
methanol is well established; large -scale methanol plants have a production -capacity of up to 1.5 Mt/ a. Figure 3 shows 
the steady growth in global consumption  in recent  years.  
In the future, non -fossil e -Methanol will see vast new application fields. It becomes sustainable or ”green” when  it is 
produced from renewable hydrogen of either biological (bio -methanol) or electrochemical origin (e -Methanol) and CO 2. 
This paper focuses on the green hydrogen path, which uses renewable electricity.  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  5  
Figure 3: Global annual methanol consumption by application (source: Methanol Institute)  
Conventional and e -Methanol are chemically identical but are distinctly different in terms of their CO 2 footprint, which is 
on the order of 10 g CO 2/MJ th for green methanol and  80-90 g CO 2/MJ th for fossil -sourced methanol. Green e -Methanol 
belongs in the category of carbon -neutral fuels. This means that its combustion releases approximately as much CO 2 as it 
gets bound when being produced. CO 2 losses are from the conversion process and transportation and di stribution. 
Independent of the source, reusing emitted CO 2 results in an overall prevention  of nearly net 50 percent  of CO 2 emissions 
to the atmosphere, and the CO 2 cycle is closed in principle (Figure 4).  
 
Figure 1: Coupling PtL with industrial CO 2-emissions reduces net CO 2-emissions by up to 50  percent  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  6 It is obvious, that the primary energy used to produce largely carbon -neutral energy carrier needs to be green, produced 
in a dedicated way by renewable electricity. Interaction s with electricity grids should be minimized as long as their 
electricity  mix is still linked to CO 2 emissions. On the othe r hand, integrating Power -to-Liquids (PtL) processes into the 
existing grids can contribute to the overall power balance and grid stability as an additional and flexibly usable  electricity -
consuming element ( demand -side management). These  effects should be  considered in the future design of large PtL 
facilities and their optional grid connection s. 
 
2 Methanol : Characteristics  and conversion processes  
Conventional methanol and e -Methanol  
Methanol (CH 3OH) is the simplest alcohol  and consist s of a methyl group coupled to a hydroxyl group. The single oxygen 
atom “liquefies” methane (CH 4), and therefore  provides significant advantages in handling compared with  the gaseous 
methane (natural gas). Methanol is a light, colorless, volatile, flammable , and water -soluble substance with a distinctive 
alcohol odor. It is toxic but easy to control , especially in industrial applications. The essential advantage of (e -)Met hanol is 
its high compatibility with existing infrastructure  like tanks, pipelines , and  fueling stations as well as existing propulsion 
technologies.  
Today methanol is produced primarily from natural gas by means of  steam methane reforming (SMR), a mature,  highly 
integrated and cost -effective process. But when derived from fossil sources, th e production of this conven tional “grey” 
methanol i nvolves  high CO 2 emissions. From an economic  perspective , however, it is hard to outperform when the 
hydrogen is produ ced from RES and convert ed with CO 2, due to low natural gas and CO 2 prices.  
The synthesis of methanol from H 2 and CO (synthesis gas) and from H 2 and CO 2 are exothermal chemical reactions. When 
converting it from CO 2, one mol of H 2 (per mol methanol) is lost as water. The process performance is primarily  
determined by the reaction temperature, pressure and catalyst  features. To obtain high conversion rates , internal 
recycling of the product gas is still required  in today’s processes . 
One method  for partial ly decarboniz ing conventional methanol production from fossil sources uses green hydrogen to 
balance the potential mismatch of H 2 and CO/CO 2 in the synthesis gas acquired  from substances like  coal (Figure 5).  
 
Figure 5: Pathways for synthesizing methanol  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  7 CO 2 sources for green e -Methanol  
In terms of the chemistry, all CO 2 sources can be used to produce e -Methanol. The CO 2 molecule is identical, whether it is 
emitted from a coal -fired power plant or from combusting biomass.  e-fuels and e -Methanol are determined to be green or 
sustainable as long as the energy required in the processing is renewable.  
However, there is an ongoing dispute  about whether CO 2 from combustion processes can be used for green products. 
There is a co ncern, that this could lead to a rationale for  using fossil fuels and thereby emitting greenhouse gases . 
Biomass -based CO 2 and CO 2 derived from the air  - direct air capture (DAC) - are clearly preferred for produc ing e-fuels 
because they lead directly to a short -term closed CO 2 cycle (carbon neutrality). On the other hand , CO 2 emissions from 
specific  industrial sources  like cement production and from steel works are mostly inherent, and thereby unavoidable. Re -
using the CO 2-emissions for PtL pr ocesses has a similar effect and is clearly environmentally benign. Bonding CO 2 from 
sour gas treatment and natural gas utilization  like power generation using highly efficient gas turbines, will be evaluated 
case by case. Each application field and projec t will need  to be ecologically assessed and the produced e -fuel will be 
certified by independent institutes for their compliance with all environmental measures  including their  GHG impact.  
Nevertheless, each re -use of CO 2, whatever its  source, has similar CO 2 emission conservation  effects due to the creation of 
a CO 2-neutral cycle  (see Figure 4 ). While carbon capture from flue gas is technologically developed to a great extend  and 
the economics  are acceptable , DAC technology is still un der development. Its technological feasibility has been 
demonstrated in principle in initial  demo -projects, but industrial -grade systems have not yet been built and the capture 
costs are still too high to implement it in large -scale commercial projects.  
However, with the projected decrease of investment and operating costs, DAC will support the production of e -Fuels, even 
in long -term future poor availability of industrial CO 2 sources. In this way the CO 2 supply will become independent of any 
fossil sources  and thereby PtL projects may be applicable all over the world.  
 
e-Fuels derived from e -Methanol  
In addition to the direct use of e -Methanol, the methanol pathway opens the route to other carbon -based CO 2-neutral e -
fuels. When e-Methanol is finished by converting it into e -Dimethylether (CH 30CH 3), e-Hydrocarbons (C xHy) like e-Gasoline 
and e-Kerosene will be able to replace their fossil counterparts. The electricity -based fuels become in this manner direct 
drop -in fuels, which are completel y compatible with the existing fossil counterparts. They are synthetically produced and 
usable in existing engines, turbines and heating systems wit h no  need for extensive modification. Concurrently, all exist-
ing infrastructure for fuel transport, storage and fueling can be  used without modification . The processes used to conver t 
methanol  to higher carbon -chain hydrocarbons are called  Methanol -to-Gasoline (MtG) and Methanol -to-Kerosene (MtK).  
Nevertheless, t oday t he more common  way to produce synthetic gaso line or kerosene uses  the Fischer -Tropsch process. e -
Diesel and other synthetic products like green -labeled waxes for the cosmetic s industry are also produced using this 
method . The Fischer -Tropsch process uses hydrogen and carbon monoxide as educts; for t he green path , the CO 2 needs to 
first be reduced to CO  (see Figure 6 ). 
 
 
 
White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  8  
 
Figure 6: Alternative process pathways for the production of green e -Gasoline  
 
 
Methanol -to-Gasoline process  
ExxonMobil’s MtG -technology is a well -known  method for produc ing certificated gasoline from methanol. The first plants 
were built in the 1980s, and have demonstrated the ir high technology -readiness, process performance , and reliability for 
decades. At that time , the main purpose for investing in this novel gasoline pro duction route was to become independent 
of crude oil refining.  
Today, MtG can support the creation  and strengthening an (e -)methanol economy, using e -Methanol as a commodity  hub 
for the gasoline and kerosene supply. The chemical route of the MtG process is  based on the intermediate formation of 
dimethylether (DME) and dehydrogentation. After condens ing of the water , the product spectrum typically contains 85 to 
90 percent  light gasoline (mainly C 5+ hydrocarbons) and some 10  percent  LPG ( liquified petroleum gas) as a byproduct 
(Figure 7).  
 
 
 
Figure 7: Simplified flowsheet of the Methanol -to-Gasoline process (source: Exxon)  
 
The overall energy efficiency of the conversion process has been assessed at 92  percent . Through the electricity -based route 
leading to e-Gasoline , a decarbonization rate of about 90  percent  compared with  the conventional route can be achieved , and 
- as a synthetic product - e-Gasoline is free of sulfur and nitrogen. The implementation of the latest technologies  to produce  
synthetic e -fuels will also lead to the introduction of e -Methanol in the transport sector.  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  9 3 Economic  factors  and use -cases of e -Methanol for transport  
 
Cost and prices  
The electrical energy needed to split the water is the most dominant economic parameter in the e-Methanol production 
chain. Its share in the final product cost varies between 30 and 40  percent , depending on regional renewable electricity 
costs. Figure  8 shows the correlation between electricity price and e -Methanol production cost. Under climate con ditions 
beneficial for wind power generation in Europe , green electrical energy can be produced at €25-50/MWh el. The 
electrolysis could be operated at up to 4,500 h/a. These  conditions result in an e -Methanol production cost  of €800 to 
900/t (Figure 8).   
 
Figure 8: Production cost of e -Methanol based on electricity price  
In contrast , in many regions worldwide with the most favorable conditions for generating wind and solar , electricity cost s 
below €20/MWh el and very high load factors for electrolysis are feasible. At th ese locations , the  e-Methanol production 
cost c ould  be as low as €600-650/t, depending on the cost for CO 2. Our reasons for optimism include  the decreasing cost 
of equipment and project financing. Even when considering costs for an intercontinental transport of about €30 to 60/t to 
the European end -consumers , the overa ll cost for imported e -Methanol would be much lower than if it w ere produced  in 
domestic markets. Furthermore, the potential for gene rating renewable electricity in central Europe, which is limited also 
for regulatory reasons, could not possibly match the future  demand for e -fuels needed in other  countries.  
In the past, prices for conventional methanol produced primarily  from natural gas have fluctuated significantly between 
€300 and more than 450/t. Because  they are related to the prices of fossil sources,  in the future, fluctuating prices for 
fossil methano l can also be expected. This effect, as well as an increase of CO 2 prices , could make f uture  price calculation s 
uncertain. e-Methanol production cost are dominated by investment costs and are thereby highly predictable and con-
stant , from project launch over the plant ’s lifecycle . The curren t price gap between grey and green products is projected to 
decrease.  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  10 Nevertheless, due to the ir significant ly lower CO 2 footprint , and in order to strengthen the worldwide fuel decarboniza-
tion efforts, a price premium for green e -fuels is needed. The situation is comparable to biofuels, for which a market price 
well above that of fossil gasoline has been already established and accepted  in the market. A benchmark for future  e-
Methanol prices c an be evaluated by looking at the bioethanol sector, which recently experience d a drastic increase in 
prices. Taking into consideration its energy content and CO 2 footprint , e-Methanol prices up to €1000/t seem to be realis-
tic in a mid -term future. This scenari o provides a  viable business cases for large -scale e -Methanol plants abroad for export 
to Europe.  
 
Use-cases in the transport sector  
Until now, main approaches  for reducing CO 2-emissions from the transport sector have been focus ed on improv ing engine 
efficiency and blending conventional gasoline/diesel with  biofuels. However, t he remarkable specific emission s savings 
per car have been  compensated by the increase in the  car fleet and the popularity of big cars. Over the last decade, multi-
ple low  CO 2-emission drive  concepts have been introduced to the market, at times triggering controversial discussion.  
The m ost important advances  are electrical drives (e -cars), either directly powered from batteries, or from hydrogen via 
fuel cells . This  concept  is still facing challenges , including the  high cost and low availability of the appropriate hydrogen 
infrastructure. Conventional biofuels  have been successfully introduced to the market , but they are approach ing their lim-
its due to insufficient capacity as well as competition with food production. As a novel decarbonization instrument, e-
fuels are increasingly considered as serious alternative to other proposed solutions, especially due to their compatibility 
with established fuel infrastructure. This is an important factor , especially valid for regions with large existing car fleets 
that also l ack the capital for a radical change to battery or hydrogen drives. Mo st importantly, an  immediate conservation  
in CO 2-emission can be achieved by implementi ng e-fuels. 
All of alternatives mentioned will gain  in importance, partly in competition, partly supplementing each other, specifically 
for each use case, with their individual benefits and disadvantages. Figure 9 summarizes the different aspects.  
So far, the glo bal low -carbon fuel markets have been  dominated by biofuels. In 2019 roughly  96 Mtoe (million tons oil 
equivalent) of biofuels were marketed worldwide (IEA). The m ost important biofuels are bioethanol with a global produc-
tion of about 57 Mtoe and biodiesel  at 39 Mtoe. This corresponds to a share of global fuel consumption in transport sec-
tor of roughly 4  percent . Global biofuel production would hypothetically need to triple by 2030  in order to fulfill the pro-
jected demand in the 1.5 K global warming mitigation scenarios. There is a common understanding that worldwide bio-
mass resources w on’t be sufficient to meet  these requirements , especially considering the tighter regulations on biomass 
resources that were put in place to prevent competition with fo od production ( second  generation biofuels).  
e-fuels will be urgently needed in order to overcome these shortages. Up to now, their global production has been  very 
limited; only a small number of e -Methanol plants are in operation  (see Figure 17 ). Neverthel ess, a future shift to carbon -
neutral e -fuels, especially e -Methanol, e -Gasoline and e -Kerosene, could make a significant contribution to efforts to de-
carboniz e the transport sector worldwide.  
 
White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  11  
Figure 9: Opportunities for decarbonizing transport sector  
In general, if renewable electricity is sufficiently available in a given  region, e -mobility based on batteries is prefer red due 
to its high well -to-wheel efficiency. But even in this case, due to their high weight, batteries for long -distance heavy -duty 
transport ation vehicles  are most likely not feasible. For these applications , highly energy -dense green hydrogen  and espe-
cially e -fuels are a better option. And in contrast to electrical energy , they can be economically imported from far away 
regions abroad:  for example , arid areas  that are rich in wind and solar energy but not suitable for biomass production. 
Synthetically produced e -fuels a lso contribute to the desulfurization (SO x) and denitrification (NO x) of the transport sec-
tor. e -Fuels for land mobility can also profit from synergies to shipping and aviation, where e -fuels will need to play an 
important role in decarbonization.  
It is true that the various  stages of the conversion chain - from renewable electrical to chemical and finally to motion ( for 
example  powering  a car) - are associated with different kinds of substantial losses. For land transportation, a well -to-
wheel efficiency in range of 15  percent  is expected. That is clearly inferior to  e-mob ility. On the other hand , because re-
newable resources are infinitely available worldwide and will be technically exploited more and more in an increasingly 
economical way, the losses in efficiency are of lower priority as long as the final economics are ac ceptable (Figure 10).  
At a first stage, large -scale PtL project at sites with the lowest costs for renewable electricity production, e -Methanol pro-
duction costs are estimated at €130/MWh th. This corresponds to €150/MWh th for e -Gasoline (about €1.30/l, tax -free).  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  12  
Figure 10: Energy balance and cost structure  of the Power -to-Gasoline process (simplified)  
 
 
Road transportation  
Methanol has been  an established additive to gasoline as anti -knock agent  for decades . Up to three percent  by volume is 
allowed for blending with conventional gasoline in accordance with  European specifications; higher admixture rates are 
technically feasible (Figure 11). Admixing 15 to 20  percent methanol does not require substantial modification  to today’s 
engines. Eni i n Italy has tested a fuel type containing 20  percent  methanol; in China regulations for up to pure methanol 
(M15 … M100) have been implemented, modified engines are in operation in large car fleets. So far, China’s motivation 
for using methanol as a fuel f or transport ation  is to become more independent from oil imports and to mitigate local 
emissions of pollut ants  from conventional fuels. e -Methanol is becoming increasingly interesting  as an easy drop -in op-
tion for reduc ing the mobility’s CO 2 footprint.  
The production of biodiesel requires  about 10  percent methanol, which today is obtained from fossil sources. Simply re-
placing it with e-Methanol would a lso reduce the carbon footprint of biodiesel. Anti-knock agents based on methanol 
could be ea sily replaced with  decarbonized e -Methanol.  
As mentioned, in order to become more compatible with conventional fuels, e -Methanol can be converted into synthetic 
e-Gasoline (MtG -process). Its CO 2-footprint of app roximately  10 g/MJ th would enable a more than 90  percent  reduction in 
CO 2-emissions compared with  fossil fuels.  
DME is also an excellent synthetic substitute for conventional diesel oil with only minor modifications to modern, highly 
energy -efficient diesel engines. Largely c arbon -neutral e -DME could help decarbonize the transport sector, including 
buses and freight transport ation . 

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  13   
Figure 11: Options for blending gasoline with  ethanol and methanol (Source: Turner, Pearson)  
 
Shipping  
Like the other transportation sectors, the shipping industry is facing significant challenges  resulting from the technologi-
cal changes forced by global warming. Typical fossil fuels like heavy fuel oil that ha ve dominated this sector for more than 
100 years will be repla ced by low carbon fuels as the shipping industry urgently seeks  to reduce its pollutants and green-
house gas emissions. Today , shipping accounts for two to three percent  of global CO 2 emissions, a share that will rise with 
growing trade if left unchecked. T he International Maritime Organization (IMO) has therefore set a target to reduce emis-
sions by 50  percent  in 2050 (relative to 2008, Figure 12). Individual companies are moving ahead with more ambitious 
goals.  
 
Figure 12: GHG strategy of the  International Marine Organization (IMO).  
Total: refers to the absolute amount of GHG emissions from international shipping. Intensity: Carbon dioxide emitted per 
ton-mile. (Source: IMO)  
In addition to improving drive efficiency, better logistics , and redu cing the transportation velocity , changing the fuel s 
used in the shipping sector  is a promising measure for reduc ing CO 2-emissions. Alternatives to today’s heavy fuel oils  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  14 include  low-carbon or even carbon -free fuels : liquified natural gas (LNG), methanol,  hydrogen and ammonia, all of which 
are clean fuels that are also highly relevant because of the recent more stringent SO x- and NO x- emissions restrictions . In a 
first step , they may be still produced from fossil sources  and still charged with associated  CO2 emissions. Nevertheless, the 
shift toward the green electricity -based variants can be made  smoothly for existing fleets and for new ships, immediately 
leading to a huge  reduction of CO 2 emissions. However, today it is an open question  as to which of the se e-fuels will pre-
vail in the shipping sector  over next 10 to 30 years. Each has its advantages in different use cases. Future shipping will 
most likely implement a more diverse fuel and propulsion spectrum than today.  
For instance, e -Methanol is predestin ed for large  passenger ships like ferries and cruise  ships , and it can also be easily 
used in  inland waterways. Methanol -driven ships are already in use, for example  the “Stena -Germanica” ferry since 2015 
and the  methanol -fueled transport ation  fleet operated by Methanex. An important advantage of methanol over LNG is 
that there is no climate -damaging methane slip from the reciprocating engine’s operation. In addition to  combustion en-
gines fuel cells , that run on methanol ( direct methanol fuel cell, DMFC) are under development . They could be used for 
applications like feeding electrical drives and generat ing power and heat for on -board facilities of cruise ships.  
For large -scale bulk ships  operated by small, highly trained  crews , e-Ammonia is being intensively discussed as a CO 2-free 
fuel for ship operation. e-Ammonia is produced from green hydrogen  and nitrogen using the established Haber -Bosch 
process. The broad introduction of e -Ammonia – similar to e -Methanol – would be able to use an established infrastruc-
ture for distribution and application. A white paper is  available from Siemens Energy  that addresses e -Ammonia.  
 
Aviatio n 
Aviation accounts for 2.4  percent  of global CO 2 emissions (918 Mt CO 2 in 2018). In addition to improvements in propul-
sion efficiency (1.5  percent/ a between 2009 and 2016), the potential future application of batteries for short distance 
flights , and us ing bio-kerosene, it will be necessary to deploy synthetic e -fuels to mee t the increasing fuel demand and 
simultaneously significantly reduce CO 2 emissions. High quality synthetic e -Kerosene also reduces the emission of dust; it 
can be  directly applied without complex and expensive retrofits. Hydrogen  is different: it requires special  tank systems, 
intensive testing and approvals , and may face acceptance issues. Similar to land transportation, hydrogen requires a  mod-
ified  supply chain and infrastructure.  
There are no obligatory CO 2 reduction targets, comparable to the European r egulation s on  land transport, that are ad-
dressed in the Renewable Energy Directive (RED). Nevertheless, the Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) and International 
Air Transportation Association (IATA) have committed to the effort by releasing a  target of a 50 percent  reduction in net 
aviation CO 2 emissions by 2050 (Figure 13). A more stringent commitment published in September 2020 by the “one-
world” association that unifies 13 airlines and a bout  20 of their affiliates  in an effort to approach net-zero carbon emis-
sions by 2050.  
The aviation industry introduced their own category of CO 2-neutral fuels  - Sustainable Aviation Fuels (SAF)  - which can be 
either produced from biomass, waste or us ing of renewable electrical ene rgy to produce Powerfuels. These are projected  
to become the best option for implementing RES in the aviation sector. However, until  now, the aviation industry views  
Powerfuels only as a long -term solution.  
 
White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  15  
Figure 13: CO2 emissions reduction targets for  the aviation sector (Source: based on Carbon Offsetting and Reduction 
Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA)  
Similar to  e-Gasoline, e -Kerosene can be synthesized via two routes, the Fischer -Tropsch process  that includ es a refining 
stage and the more s elective MtK process, which is not yet commercially available, and will be implemented in demon-
stration projects. Both pathways have achieved comparable technology -readiness levels.  
The MtK process is quite similar to MtG . It must be modified to produce the C9-C14 chain hydrocarbons, typical of jet fuel. 
The f irst R&D projects, for example KEROSyN100 , are under development, while Fischer -Tropsch kerosene from biogas has 
been already certified for 50 percent  blend ing with conventional jet fuel.  
 
 
4 Roadmap for implementing e -Methanol   
 
Pilot and demonstration plants  
As shown in Figure 14, there are very few plants  worldwide  for produc ing of renewable methanol, an most of them are 
producing bio -methanol from biomass/waste. Only one commercial plant in Iceland uses green Hydrogen from water elec-
trolysis and CO 2 taken from local geological sources. At 4 kt/yr , its production capacity is quite limited. The small -scale 
plant has been c ontinuously operated since 2012 and has proven its technological maturity. e -Methanol produced on the 
island is market ed through various channels in continental Europe. There  are plans to expand the plant’s production ca-
pacity, but no final investment decision s have been made . 
In the context  of the BMWi funded E2Fuels project Siemens Energy is working with the Stadtwerke Ha ssfurt, MAN Energy 
and academia to pursu e the developm ent of the novel PtMethanol concept, which should become more efficient and op-
erationally flexible, fulfilling  the needs from volatile RES. The r esults of lab-scale tests of the synthesis concept will be 
implemented in a pilot p roject . The first production of e-Methanol  is expected in 2021.  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  16  
Figure 14: The f irst projects for renewable methanol production are already in operation  
 
Large -scale production  
It is clear , that in parallel to small -scale demonstration plants, scalability and ma turity in large -scale plant operation ha ve 
to be achieved quickly. Only fast development  coupled with lowering the investment risk and construction costs can help 
to build up required production capacit y. Figure 15 gives an example of estimated  balance data for a PtMethanol plant , 
which will be constructed in Chile . This project , launched in December 2020 , will demonstrate an interaction of all essen-
tial plant components , as well as  create a basis for scaling up large size plants , in range of man y hundreds MW. These 
plants , usually located  in regions with a high production potential and low cost, green electricity , are  dedicated for pro-
duction of green hydrogen, w/o use of grid electricity . Nevertheless, in regions with weak grid infrastructure , PtL plant s 
could  be connected to the grid, stabilize and improve its reliability.   
 
Figure 15: Simplified process flow diagram and mass balance for an exemplary Power -to-Methanol plant  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  17 PtL plants can be designed using m odular concepts with single  train ele ctroly sis capacities of up to 200 MW el. High ly 
standardized process units  for example,  the electrol ysis systems, econom ies-of-scale for the chemical syntheses and pre -
manufactured components will help reduce invest ment costs  and shorten the construction  time.  
Nonetheless,  large -size and complex PtL -projects require extensive e xperience in project development, financing and exe-
cution . During the introduction phase over coming years, risk sharing, close partnerships, governmental support and l ast 
not at least: public acceptance  can speed up evolvement it this well promising technology , and positively  impact the re-
duction of net CO2 emissions.  
In close collaboration with customers and partners Siemens Energy is currently developing its first PtL  projects, by draw-
ing on the company’s technology expertise, its products, flexible PEM (Polymer Electrolyte Membrane) electrolysis, and its 
extensive solution and project management experience . The first pre -commercial Haru Oni project will be realized in Pata-
gonia  Province in Chile , fig. 15, 16. 
 
Figure 16: Haru -Oni pilot plant, Patagonia, Chile  
The Haru Oni project will be the first commercial industrial-scale plant for production of climate-neutral e-fuels. Produc-
tion capacities of e-fuels are planned to reach 130,000 litres during the pilot plant operation by 2022, 55 million litres for 
the first phase of commercial plant by 2024 and up to 550 million litres in the following phase. The “Haru Oni” pilot pro-
ject takes advantage of the excellent wind conditions in southern Chile to produce carbon-neutral fuel using wind power. 
Final products will be e-methanol and e-gasoline, produced from methanol via methanol-to-gasoline process. The project 
is supported through funding by the German government under the National Hydrogen Strategy program. Siemens En-
ergy has developed the Haru Oni project with partners such as HIF, Porsche AG, and Chilean ENAP. The project will 
demonstrate the Siemens Energy’s PEM electrolysis technology in an industrial scale.

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  18 Siemens Energy has recognized the value of PtX -solutions for the decarbonization of multiple industries  man y years ago . 
The company is preparing to provide a full range of customized solutions for each application, beginning with production 
of electricity from wind, offering of green hydrogen and e -fuels production or ending with carbon -free re-electrification. 
All of these stages will be available on a component , as well as on a turnkey basis (Figure 17, also see Siemens Energy’s 
white paper o n Power -to-X). 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 7: Siemens Energy's modular approach to Power -to-X plants.  
 
 
 
Using well proven  plant components, known from the electricity production, transformation  and distribution, having ex-
tensive experience in serving the oil & gas industry , as well as developing own key -PEM electrolysis -technology,  in part-
nerships with global e -fuel synthesis technology leaders, Siemens Energy is well prepared to deliver any kind of solution 
with  benefit for the climate protection and customers satisfaction.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  19 5 An e -Methanol economy – Vision or fantasy?  
Methanol is a universal chemical compound. It can be easily synthesized from material s containing carbon  (CO, CO 2) and 
H2. And it can  be used as an energy carrier or to produce other fuels as well as a basic feedstock for numerous chemical 
products.  
In the 1990s the Nobel laureate chemist George A. Olah was already promot ing the introduction of a so -called methanol 
economy which, however, has did not enjoy a positive res ponse  from industry and politics at the  time. However, with the 
need to decarbonize our existing energy consumption patterns and drastically decreasing the cost of electrical energy 
from RES, his idea of establish ing a methanol economy is being seen completely new light . Olah’s idea of a closed CO 2 
balance via e -Methanol may very well become a reality for economic and environmental reasons (Figure 1 8).  
In prin ciple, the transition to a green e -Methanol economy and the installation of e -Methanol hubs would be fairly simple: 
green hydrogen is produced at RES rich locations, converted into an energy -dense, liquid fuel (methanol), stored and dis-
tributed using estab lished infrastructures, and used in different applications. This is how e -Methanol can integrate RES all 
over the world in the existing infrastructures of the transport sector, the chemical industry, and heating and decentral 
power supply systems. The conc ept becomes even more sustainable if the auxiliary energy - for example, for water treat-
ment and CO 2 capture and logistics - comes from green sources. Many areas and their populations all over the world 
would profit by becoming players in an e -Methanol eco nomy – including deserts with no resources to produce green en-
ergy from biomass, windy regions with no or low industrial development, and oil -exporting countries that are looking for 
new business opportunities. Regions that were left behind during earlier industrialization would be able to create a sus-
tainable, autonomous and successful future.  
 
Figure 18: The concept of a sustainable e -Methanol economy  

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  20 Countries like Germany will not be able  to achieve an energy transition that is based entirely on local RES. As with fossil 
fuels , the need to import energy will persist  in an e -Methanol economy. Applications in the transport sector could pioneer 
the introduction of e -fuels. Figure 1 9 shows a roadmap of the different applicati on fields and implementation steps for e-
Methanol and carbon -based e -fuels in general.  
 
Figure 19: Scenario for evolvement of the green e -Methanol economy  
The technologies needed to realize PtX are ready for scale -up in principle, and the concepts necessa ry to create large -scale 
PtL plants already exist. Investors are becoming  increasingly interested in these new green opportunities, and e-fuel off -
takers are recognizing the opportunity to reduce their carbon footprint in a  sustainable  way. If adequately p romoted by 
policy  – in other words, supported by regulations and incentives during introduction  - and stimulated by the public’s inter-
est the transition to an e -Methanol economy is likely to succeed . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

White Paper “ e-Methanol ” 
 © 202 1 Siemens Energy  Page  21 Impressum  
www.siemens -energy.com/hydrogen  
 
Publishe d by   
Siemens Energy  Global GmbH & Co . KG 
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739  Munich , Germany  
 F
or more information, please contact : support.energy@siemens-energy.com
 
Authors : Dr. Peter Kl uesener, Dr. Ireneusz Pyc, Dr. Gerhard Zimmer mann  
 
Graphics : Siemens Energy  
 
© Siemens Energy, 202 1  
 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation 
and transmission to storag e. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and 
steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 per-
cent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable 
Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the elec-
tricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Si emens Energy employs more than 90,000 
people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020.   
www.siemens -energy.com  
 
Disclaim er 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the products.  The requested performance 
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other 
companies whose use by third par ties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners . 
   