 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Power -to-X: 
A closer  look  at 
e-Ammonia  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
siemens -energy.com/electrolyzer  
White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  2  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Content s 
Introduction  
Page  3 
1.1 Transitioning  towards  net-zero  systems  
1.2 What  is e-Ammonia?  
1.3 E-Ammonia  can be made  at large -scale  
1.4 Ammonia  health  and safety  considerations  
 
Economic  feasibility  and drivers  
Page 7  
2.1 Production  cost of e-Ammonia  
2.2 Storage  and transport  of e-Ammonia  
 
Key markets  
   Page 10  
3.1 Existing  market:  fertilizers  and other  chemicals  
3.2 Emerging  markets:  energy  
3.3 Comparing  e-Ammonia  with  other  e-Fuels  
 
A closer  look  at e-Ammonia  around  the globe  
   Page 13  
4.1 Sustainable  economic  growth  
4.2 E-Ammonia  opportunities  in existing  markets  
4.3 A new  wave  of green  industry  
 
Conclusions  
   Page 15  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  3  
  
 
 
 
1. Introduction  
 
 
1.1 Transitioning  towards  net-zero  systems  
Humanity  is at the beginning  of an unprecedented,  rapid  transition  towards  sustainable  systems.  A sense  of urgency  is 
mounting  to achieve  a net-zero system  by mid-century  in order  to limit  global  warming  to well below  2 °C above  preindus - 
trial levels,  as advised  by the Intergovernmental  Panel  on Climate  Change  (IPCC).  Already,  nations  are heeding  this warn - 
ing, signing  net-zero targets  into law, and mobilizing  a significant  push  for deep  decarbonization.  
 
Achieving  the required  systemic  transformation  requires  considering  a range  of technologies.  One highly  relevant  technol - 
ogy for decarbonizing  several  sectors  is e-Ammonia.  E-Ammonia  is a carbon -free chemical  and fuel made  from  renewable  
electricity,  water,  and air that can be rapidly  deployed  at scale,  building  on a century  of industrial  ammonia  infrastructure  
and expertise.  
 
E-Ammonia  is relevant  for decarbonizing  the existing  ammonia  market – a vast market  worth  tens of billions  of euro  and 
growing  – as well as for emerging  applications  in decarbonizing  parts  of the energy  sector,  including  shipping,  large  scale  
energy  storage,  distributed  power  generation  and the bulk delivery  of hydrogen.  The significant  advantage  of e-Ammonia  
as an energy  vector  is the low cost of storage  and transport,  especially  when  compared  to green  hydrogen.  
 
Based  on both  these  large  existing  and emerging  markets,  e-Ammonia  is a crucial  technology  in the transition  to net-zero  
and thus  warrants  a closer  look.  
 
 
 
 
1.2 What  is e-Ammonia?  
Ammonia  is a compound  made  of nitrogen  and hydrogen  with  the chemical  formula  NH 3. Over  180 million  tons  of ammo - 
nia are already  produced  annually  for various  uses,  including  agricultural  fertilizer,  refrigeration,  pharmaceuticals,  textiles,  
and explosives.  Ammonia  is produced  today  using  fossil  fuel feedstocks  and energy.  E-Ammonia , also called  green  ammo - 
nia, is chemically  the same  compound;  however,  it is differentiated  from  traditional  ammonia  by virtue  of its carbon -free 
method  of production.  
 
E-Ammonia  is made  from  three  simple  inputs:  water,  air, and renewable  electricity.  First,  hydrogen  is generated  from  
water  using  electrolysis  (green  hydrogen ) and nitrogen  is separated  from  air. Second,  these  feedstocks  of hydrogen  and 
nitrogen  are combined  in the century -old Haber -Bosch  synthesis  process  to make  ammonia.  In the production  of e-Ammo - 
nia, all processes  are driven  by renewable  electricity,  and thus  there  are no CO₂ emissions.  
N₂ + 3 H₂ → 2 NH₃ 

White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  4  
  
 
 
 
Traditional  ammonia  production  (i.e. “grey”  or “brown”  ammonia)  uses  natural  gas or coal to provide  both  the hydrogen  
feedstock  as well as the energy  to power  the Haber -Bosch  synthesis  process.  As a result,  traditional  ammonia  production  
releases  almost  1.8%  of global  CO₂ emissions,  making  ammonia  production  one of the most  carbon  emitting  industries  in 
the world.1 Fossil -fuel derived  ammonia  is produced  at industrial  scales  in over  60 countries,  including  China,  India,  Russia,  
USA,Trinidad  & Tobago,  Indonesia,  and Saudi  Arabia.  
 
 
 
 
1.3 E-Ammonia  can be made  at large -scale  
Ammonia  Making  e-Ammonia  is technologically  feasible  today  using  electrolysis  of water,  nitrogen  separation  from  air, 
and existing  Haber -Bosch  synthesis  technology.  To demonstrate  this,  Siemens  Energy  designed  and built  the world’s  first 
roundtrip  e-Ammonia  demonstration  plant  at the Rutherford  Appleton  Laboratory  in the UK. 
 
A first step in industrial  e-Ammonia  production  is to add electrolysis  capacity  at existing  fossil -fuelbased  ammonia  plants  
in low percentages.  This stepping -stone  can be beneficial  for increasing  familiarity  with  the e-Ammonia  process  and reduc - 
ing CO 2 emissions  of existing  assets  by displacing  part of the fossil  fuel hydrogen  with  green  hydrogen.  The scale  of this 
green  hydrogen  production  would  not necessarily  be small,  as traditional  Haber -Bosch  synthesis  plants  are very large.  
Today,  industrial  ammonia  production  plants  average  500 – 1,500  metric  tons  per day (MTPD)  of ammonia,  with  the larg- 
est plants  achieving  over  3,500  MTPD.  As an example  of the large -scale  nature  of ammonia,  replacing  just 200 MPTD  of 
this production  with  green  hydrogen  would  require  150 - 200 MW of renewable  electricity  resources  paired  with  similar  
sized  electrolysis,  assuming  50%  capacity  factor.2 
 
As a next  step,  new  e-Ammonia  plants  will be built  with  large  renewable  energy  resources.  A challenge  with  entirely  
e-Ammonia  production  is the process  flexibility  needed  to manage  variable  renewable  energy  sources,  such  as solar  and 
wind.  Today,  Haber -Bosch  plants  are optimized  for continuous  operation  based  on fossil  fuel feedstock,  and therefore  
operate  with  limited  flexibility.  Risks  to flexible  operation  include  reduced  catalyst  and equipment  lifetime  due to thermal  
 
1 The Royal  Society.  (2020).  Ammonia:  zero-carbon  fertilizer,  fuel and energy  store.  London.  
 
2 Assuming  an electricity  input  of 9-12 MWh/tonne  e-NH3  from  calculations  based  on 

White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  5  
  
 
 
 
cycling  and decreased  production  efficiency.  A solution  that could  be implemented  today  to manage  intermittent  renew - 
able energy  feedstock  with  an inflexible  Haber -Bosch  process  would  be to use a large  hydrogen  storage  buffer.  With  this 
design,  there  would  always  be constant  feedstock  for the Haber -Bosch  process.  A better  and more  cost-effectiv e solution  
would  involve  optimizing  the Haber -Bosch  process  to vary output  in line with  the renewable  energy  input.  This turn-down  
capability  can likely  be achieved  through  various  plant  design  and operation  techniques.  
 
Finally,  new  technologies  for e-Ammonia  synthesis,  such  as lower  pressure,  lower  temperature,  or electrochemical  synthe - 
sis are still in lab-scale  research  phases.  Near -term  e-Ammonia  production  facilities  will likely  use Haber -Bosch  synthesis  
with  some  form  of flexibility  management.  
 
 
1 Siemens  Energy  e-Ammonia  demonstrator  at Rutherford  Appleton  Laboratory  in Oxfordshire,  UK. Picture  courtesy  of the Science  and Technology  
Facilities  Council,  UK. 
 
 
1.4 Ammonia  health  and safety  considerations  
Ammonia  is safely  handled  in many  industrial  and agricultural  environments  around  the world  today.  There  are over  
10,000  ammonia  storage  sites  in the USA alone,  including  in ports  and agricultural  locations.1 While  safe bulk ammonia  
storage  and transport  exist  today,  ammonia  does  have  corrosive  and toxic  characteristics  that warrant  careful  health  and 
environmental  considerations.  
 
Ammonia  is a pungent,  colorless  gas at ambient  pressure  and temperature.  It is commonly  stored  in liquid  form  either  at 
modest  pressures  (10 – 15 bar) or refrigerated  to -33°C  at ambient  pressure.  Ammonia  is readily  detected  by smell  at con- 
centrations  below  levels  that are harmful  to health,  with  a characteristic  smell  found  in common  household  cleaners  and 
smelling  salts.  In nature,  ammonia  is produced  from  bacterial  processes  and when  plants,  animals,  and animal  wastes  
decay.  
Regarding  environmental  impact,  ammonia  itself  is not a greenhouse  gas, however  it does  decompose  to NOx (a potent  

White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  6  
  
 
 
 
greenhouse  gas) in the atmosphere.  Only  a fraction  of the ammonia  used  in agriculture  is taken  up into food  and the 
remainder  runs  into water,  soil, and air. Therefore,  current  agricultural  practices  require  management  of ammonia  release  
to the environment.  Emissions  can be completely  controlled  when  using  ammonia  for energy  purposes.  Fundamentally,  
generating  energy  from  ammonia  involves  converting  ammonia  back  into nitrogen  and water.  Fortunately,  existing  
post -combustion  technology,  such  as selective  catalytic  reduction  (SCR),  can be used  to reduce  NOx to nitrogen  and water  
in the case  that some  NOx emissions  are generated  from  an ammonia  combustion  system.  Moreover,  the existing  SCR 
process,  which  is often  used  for scrubbing  NOx emissions  from  diesel  engines,  actually  utilizes  ammonia  (or derivatives  
such  as urea)  as the chemical  reducing  agent  
 
 

White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  7  
  
 
 
 
2. Economic  feasibility  and drivers  
 
 
2.1 Production  cost of e-Ammonia  
The dominant  factor  in the production  cost of e-Ammonia  is the cost and availability  of renewable  electricity.  Over  90%  of 
the renewable  electricity  required  for e-Ammonia  synthesis  is consumed  in the production  of green  hydrogen  via electroly - 
sis. The Haber -Bosch  and nitrogen  separation  processes  account  for approximately  7% and 1% of electricity  consumption,  
respectively.3 The availability  of renewable  energy  (i.e. capacity  factor)  affects  asset  utilization  as well as the quantity  of 
hydrogen  buffering  required  for Haber -Bosch  flexibility  management.  Other  factors  affecting  the production  cost of e-Am- 
monia  are the cost and efficiency  of electrolysis  as well as the cost of capital.  Beyond  production  cost,  the storage  and 
transport  costs  for e-Ammonia  delivery  to a customer  are relatively  low,  in contrast  to many  methods  of transporting  
hydrogen.  
 
Renewable  electricity  and electrolysis  are forecasted  to continue  experiencing  cost reductions  over  the next  5 to 10 years.  
Solar  and wind  technologies  have  well-established  technology  experience  curves  and the specific  investment  cost of 
electrolysis  will be reduced  by upscaling,  improving  the manufacturing  process  (automation)  and/or  substituting  high -cost 
materials.  Already  today,  e-Ammonia  is approaching  competitiveness  with  grey  ammonia  in regions  with  high  capacity  
factors  and low-cost renewable  energy  sources,  such  as Chile4, Morocco,  and Australia.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Assuming 8.4 MWh/t NH3 for green hydrogen (70% efficient), 0.6 MWh/t NH3 for Haber -Bosch, and 0.1 MWh/t NH3 for air separation.  
Nayak -Luke, R., Banares -Alcantara, R., & Wilkinson, I. (2018). “Green” Ammonia: Impact of Renewable Energy Intermittency on Plant Sizing and  
Levelized  Cost  of Ammonia.  Industrial  and Engineering  Chemistry  Research(57),  14607−14616.  doi:10.1021/acs.iecr.8b02447  
4 Armijo,  J., & Philibert,  C. (2020).  Flexible  production  of green  hydrogen  and ammonia  from  variable  solar  and wind  energy:  Case  study  
of Chile  and Argentina.  International  Journal  of Hydrogen  Energy,  1541 -1558.  doi:10.1016/j.ijhydene.2019.11.028  

White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  8  
  
 
 
 
2.2 Storage  and transport  of e-Ammonia  
The significant  advantage  of ammonia  as an energy  vector  is the low cost of storage  and transport,  especially  when  com - 
pared  to hydrogen.  Ammonia  can be stored  as a liquid  via mild  pressurization  (10 bar at 25°C)  or via refrigeration  (-33°C  at 
1 bar).  In comparison,  hydrogen  requires  extremely  low temperatures  to liquefy  (-253°C  at 1 bar) or very high  pressure  to 
store  at a comparable  energy  density  (above  700 bar).  Storing  bulk  hydrogen  aboveground  generally  uses  tanks  at pres- 
sures  up to 200 bar. However,  this form  of storage  is over  50 times  more  expensive  and 7 times  more  space -consuming  
than  storing  the equivalent  hydro gen in the form  of ammonia.5 While  some  locations  in the world  have  favorable  geology  
for low-cost underground  salt cavern  storage  of hydrogen,  ammonia  can be applied  in a geographically  independent  
context.  
 
Transport  of ammonia  is well understood  via pipeline,  rail, truck,  and ship,  with  roughly  20 million  tons  per year  being  
exported  and globally  traded.  Many  ports  around  the world  can load,  unload,  and store  industrial  scales  of ammonia.1 The 
transport  cost of ammonia  via ship is approximately  30 US$ per metric  ton per 1,500  km.6 This low cost of transport  may 
justify  the production  cost differential  between  regions  of favorable  renewable  electricity  resources,  such  as Chile  and 
Morocco , and markets  such  as Europe  and Asia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 Hydrogen  aboveground  storage  CAPEX  670 USD/kg  H2(6) and ammonia  2 USD/kg  NH3 (11 USD/kg  H2)(17) 
6 Bruce,  S., Temminghoff,  M., Hayward,  J., Schmidt,  E., Munnings,  C., Palfreyman,  D., & Hartley,  P. (2018).  National  Hydrogen  Roadmap.  
Commonwealth  Scientific  and Industrial  Research  (CSIRO).  

White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Box 1: Ammonia  is practical  for large -scale  energy  storage  
 
Ammonia  has a key advantage  in storage  capability.  Large -scale  storage  will become  especially  useful  for ensuring  
reliability  and dispatchable  energy  for net-zero national  electricity  grids.  This has led to substantial  interest  in 
hydrogen  gas turbine  generation  for seasonal  grid balancing  and mid to long -term  electricity  storage.  Siemens  
Energy  has substantial  hydrogen  compatibility  in our gas turbine  portfolio  with  a target  of 100%  H2 compatibility  
across  the portfolio  by 2030.  Research  is ongoing  in ammonia  firing  of gas turbines  and ammonia/  hydrogen  blends.  
 
To highlight  the differences  in practical  
storage  of large  quantities  of energy,  take 
an 88 MW SGT-800 combined  cycle  gas 
turbine  (CCGT)  power  plant  operating  at 
59%  fuel efficiency  running  on hydrogen.  
Storage  options  for one week  of hydrogen  
fuel stored  in the form  of hydrogen  is 
compared  in the figure  with  one week  of 
hydrogen  fuel stored  in the form  of ammonia:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Assumptions:  Tube  trailer  = 800 kg H2, 
Pipeline:  1.4 Diameter  pipeline  at 100 bar 
(12 ton H2/km)7, NASA  Spherical  Liquid  
Cryogenic  Tank:  230 tons  H2, Teeside  Salt 
Caverns8 810 tons  (210,000  m3 at 45 bar).  
50,000  t ammonia  storage  tank9: single -wall 
refrigerated,  concrete  containment  walls.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 J. Andersson  and S. Gronkvist,  “Large -scale  storage  of hydrogen,”  International  Journal  of Hydrogen  Energy,  v. 44, 11901 -11919,  
2019.  
8 E. Wolf.  “Large -scale  hydrogen  energy  storage,”  J. Garche  (Ed.),  Electrochemical  energy  storage  for renewable  sources  and grid 
balancing,  Elsevier,  Amsterdam  (2015),  pp. 129-142 
9 McDermott.  QAFCO  Ammonia  Storage  Tanks  – Snamprogetti.  https://www.mcdermott.com/What -We-Do/Project -Profiles/  
QAFCO -Ammonia -Storage -Tanks  (Accessed  May 05 2020).  
White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  10  
  
 
 
 
3. Key markets  
 
 
3.1 Existing  market:  fertilizers  and other  chemicals  
Over  80%  of ammonia  produced  today  is used  in the fertilizer  sector.  Ammonia  is used  directly  as a fertilizer  and as a 
feedstock  for other  chemical  fertilizers,  such  as urea,  ammonium  nitrate,  and other  NPK combination  fertilizers.  The cur- 
rent ammonia  fertilizer  market  consumes  over  25 million  metric  tons  per year  of hydrogen.  Thus,  decarbonizing  the exist - 
ing ammonia  market  represents  a large  opportunity  for e-Ammonia  to significantly  reduce  global  emissions.  
 
3.2 Emerging  markets:  energy  
Transport  Fuel 
E-Ammonia  is increasingly  viewed  as a promising  fuel for decarbonizing  the shipping  sector.  Recent  industry  reports  
highlight  ammonia’s  role in the future  of shipping,  including  reports  from  DNV -GL10, NYK11, Maersk12, Lloyd’s  Register13, 
Korean  Register14, etc. Ammonia  plays  a key role in decarbonizing  shipping  in the UK Committee  on Climate  Change  Net 
Zero  report.15 Favorable  attributes  of e-Ammonia  for shipping  fuel are the relative  high  energy  density,  zero carbon  con- 
tent,  and the scalability  of production  to meet  the global  demand  (especially  compared  to biofuels).  Ship  engine  manufac - 
turers,  including  MAN  Energy  Solutions,  have  already  begun  testing  ammonia -fueled  engines  and are exploring  concept  
designs  for ammonia  fueled  ultra -large  container  ships.16 As detailed  in Section  1, existing  post -combustion  SCR technolo - 
gy can be used  to reduce  undesirable  NOx emissions  should  they  arise  from  direct  ammonia  combustion  engines.  For other  
applications  in transport  sector  such  as long -haul  trucking  and aviation,  other  synthetic  liquid  fuels  e.g. e-Methanol,  
e-Gasoline,  or e-Kerosen e might  be the preferred  options.  
 
 
 
 
 
10 DNV -GL. (2019).  Maritime  Forecast  to 2050:  Energy  Transition  Outlook  2019.  
11 NYK (2020)  NYK Examines  Concept  of Using  Ammonia  as Marine  Fuel.  NYK Press  Release.  Jan 30 2020.  Online.  
12 Maersk  (2019).  Alcohol,  Biomethane  and Ammonia  are the best-positioned  fuels  to reach  zero  net emissions.  Maersk  Press  Release.  24 
Oct 2019.  Online.  
13 Lloyd’s  Register  (LR) & University  Maritime  Advisory  Services  (UMAS).  (2019).  Zero  Emission  Vessels  (ZEV):  Transition  Pathways.  
14 Korean  Register  (KR).  (2019).  Forecasting  the Alternative  Marine  Fuel:  Ammonia.  KR. 
15 Committee  on Climate  Change  (CCC).  (2019).  Net Zero:  The UK’s contribution  to stopping  global  warming.  London.  
 
16 16 MAN  Energy  Solutions.  (2019).  Engineering  the future  two-stroke  green -ammonia  engine.  Copenhagen.  

White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  11  
  
 
 
 
Long  duration  and long  distance  energy  storage  
Ammonia  has relatively  low storage  and transport  costs  which  makes  it a very versatile  energy  vector,  similar  to present  
day fossil  fuels.  Ammonia  may be useful  for seasonal  storage  of energy  for electricity  and heating  needs.  As highlighted,  
hydrogen  storage  in salt caverns  may  be more  favorable  for seasonal  energy  storage  in certain  geographies,  while  ammo - 
nia offers  a geographically  independent  solution.  
 
Overall,  the lower  cost of storing  and transporting  ammonia  compared  to hydrogen  may economically  justify  ammonia  as 
a medium  for trading  energy  between  countries.  For example,  the IEA identified  a cost advantage  for Japan  to import  
hydrogen  in the form  of ammonia  from  Australia  rather  than  produce  hydrogen  using  local  renewable  resources.17 Similar  
economics  may  emerge  in other  geographies,  including  supply  in the Middle  East,  North  Africa,  and Latin  America  paired  
with  demand  in parts  of Asia and Europe.  
 
Hydrogen  carrier  
E-Ammonia  is cost effective  method  for storing  and transporting  green  hydrogen,  which  may  play a role in enabling  
green  hydrogen.  In applications  that require  hydrogen,  ammonia  can be decomposed,  or “cracked,”  back  into nitrogen  and 
hydrogen  to deliver  hydrogen  to the end-user.  The technology  for ammonia  decomposition  is mature;  however,  the re- 
quired  purity  for some  hydrogen  applications,  including  PEM  fuel cell vehicle s, is less than  0.1 ppm  residual  ammonia.  The 
technology  for achieving  this strict  purity  in a cost effective  manner  is still being  developed.  Some  applications  of hydro - 
gen do not require  such  high  purity,  including  alkaline  fuel cells  and gas turbines.  Siemens  gas turbines  (SGT)  will be 100%  
hydrogen  compatible  by 2030,  and therefore,  e-Ammonia  may  also be a useful  hydrogen  carrier  for heating,  industrial  use, 
and combustion  power  systems.  
 
3.3 Comparing  e-Ammonia  with  other  e-Fuels  
The principal  advantage  of e-Ammonia  is its zero carbon  content.  Its use as an energy  vector  is therefore  supportive  of 
net-zero  systems  without  the upstream  or downstream  carbon  capture  required  by carbon -containing  alternatives.  
 
A second  advantage  is e-Ammonia’s  practical  and cost-effective  energy  density,  which  enables  it to be a genuine  alterna - 
tive to fossil  fuels  for bulk and seasonal  storage  of energy  and the global  transportation  of renewable  energy.  It is a practi - 
cal hydrogen  vector,  too: ammonia  is more  energy  dense  by volume  than  liquid  hydrogen  as well as cheaper  to store  and 
transport,  as liquid  hydrogen  requires  25% -40%  of the energy  of hydrogen  to liquify  it at -253 °C.17 Ammonia  can be readily  
cracked  back  into hydrogen,  and thus  provide  a feasible  and geology -independent  bulk  hydrogen  supply  chain  for energy  
sectors  already  committed  to hydrogen  as a fuel (such  as mobility  and gas turbines).  Ongoing  research  and development  
activities  into the combustion  of ammonia  blends  – and even  direct  ammonia  combustion  – offer  a path  to further  effi- 
ciency  gains  and equipment  cost reductions  for the use of ammonia  as an energy  vector.  
 
A third  advantage  is the technological  maturity.  E-Ammonia  can be synthesized  from  widely  abundant  resources  (renew - 
able energy,  air, water)  using  industrially  mature  processes.  Because  ammonia  synthesis,  storage,  and transportation  
infrastructure  already  exists,  e-Ammonia  can be rapidly  deployed  as an energy  vector  at the scales  required  to make  mean - 
ingful  reductions  to carbon  emissions.  
 
The main  disadvantage  of ammonia  is its toxicity,  as discussed  above.  This means  ammonia  is unlikely  to become  a con- 
sumer  product,  for example.  However,  the existence  of a significant  worldwide  ammonia  industry  today  provides  strong  
evidence  that the risks  associated  with  ammonia  use can be reduced  to acceptable  levels  within  an industrial  setting  
through  appropriate  equipment,  design,  and control  measures.  A second  disadvantage  is the formation  of NOx emissions  
in combustion  systems.  As previously  discussed,  existing  technology  for NOx scrubbing  is already  widely  available  and 
research  and development  is active  in preventing  NOx formation  in the combustion  systems  in the first place.  
 
E-Ammonia  has similar  energy  requirements  for synthesis  to other  carbon -containing  e-Fuels  (e-Methanol,  for example);  
as with  other  e-Fuels  the synthesis  energy  requirement  is dominated  by the energy  required  to produce  the hydrogen  
feedstock.  Compared  to carbon -based  e-Fuels,  e-Ammonia  may  be a cheaper  energy  carrier  in the long  term  due to feed - 
stock  cost of nitrogen  (N2) compared  to carbon  dioxide  (CO 2). In the near  term,  biogenic  and industrial  waste  streams,  are 
sources  of low-cost CO 2 feedstock.  However,  in the long  term,  recovering  CO 2 from  the atmosphere  via direct  air capture  
(DAC)  will be required  for large -scale  carbon -based  e-Fuel production.  The cost forecasts  for DAC are uncertain,  but atmo - 
spheric  nitro gen has a fundamental  advantage  over  atmospheric  CO 2 because  the concentration  of nitrogen  in the atmo - 
17 IEA. (2019).  The Future  of Hydrogen:  Seizing  today’s  opportunities.  International  Energy  Agency.  
White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  12  
  
 
 
 
sphere  is so much  higher  than  the concentration  of CO 2 (78%  for N2 compared  to <0.5%  for CO 2).Meanwhile,  carbon -based  
e-Fuels  have  an advantage  of higher  compatibility  with  existing  fossil  fuel infrastructure  (e.g.  e-Fuels  for automobiles  and 
aviation),  and are appropriate  in applications  where  zero-carbon  alternatives  such  as hydrogen  and ammonia  are difficult  
to deploy.  Thus  ammonia  is being  investigated,  alongside  carbon -based  e-Fuels,  as a practical,  cost-effective  energy  carrier  
for net-zero  systems  
White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  13  
  
 
 
 
4. A closer  look  at e-Ammonia  around  the globe  
4.1 Sustainable  economic  growth  
E-Fuels,  such  as e-Ammonia,  can play a role in supporting  economic  growth  in different  parts  of the world  where  abun - 
dant,  low-cost renewable  resources  offer  a competitive  advantage.  The existing  and emerging  ammonia  markets  are an 
opportunity  for economic  and social  improvement  while  contributing  positively  towards  decarbonization.  A few particular - 
ly strong  candidates  for production  and export  of e-Ammonia  due to cheap  and abundant  wind  and solar  resources  in- 
clude  Morocco,  Australia,  and parts  of Latin  America,  such  as Chile  and Argentina.  
 
 
 
 
4.2 E-Ammonia  opportunities  in existing  markets  
In some  regions,  e-Ammonia  production  can replace  imports  in the first instance.  In Morocco,  2 million  tons  of ammonia  
are imported  annually  as a raw material18 – or roughly  US$600  million – for producing  export  quality  fertilizers  in combina - 
tion with  Morocco’s  phosphate  resources.  Similarly,  Chile  imported  between  US$100  - 200 million  of ammonia  per year  
from  2011 -2016.19 Local  production  of e-Ammonia  in both  geographies  can meet  domestic  needs  of ammonia  for fertilizer  
and chemicals  and eliminate  reliance  on imported  ammonia.  
In other  regions,  e-Ammonia  represents  an opportunity  for decarbonization  of existing  assets.  For example,  while  most  of 
Latin  America  imports  ammonia,  Trinidad  and Tobago  is the world’s  leading  exporter  of ammonia,  based  on natural  gas 
feedstock.18 The addition  of electrolysis  from  renewable  electricity  to existing  plants  represents  an important  opportunity  
for transitioning  the industry  towards  more  sustainable  production.  Decarbonization  of existing  ammonia  plants  with  
incremental  electrolysis  is already  being  investigated  in Australia,  another  large  producer  of fossil -fuel derived  ammonia.20 
 
 
 
 
 
18 Nutrien  Fact Book  2019.  Nutrien  LTD 2020.  
19 Datawheel,  2017.  https://datachile.io . Chemical  Product:  Ammonia.  
20 Australian  Renewable  Energy  Agency  (ARENA)  2020.  Yara  Pilbara  Renewable  Ammonia  Feasibility  Study.  https://arena.gov.au/projects/  
yara-pilbara -renewable -Ammonia -feasibility -study/  

White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  14  
Frei verwendbar  
 
 
 
 
E-Ammonia  can also be exported  overseas  to various  demand  centers,  including  Asia and Europe.  E-Hydrogen  can be 
transported  in the form  of e-Ammonia  and cracked  back  to green  hydrogen  at the end user.  The Chilean  government  is 
already  investigating  potential  methods  for exporting  green  hydrogen  to Japan  and the Republic  of Korea21, research  
groups  supported  by the German  government  are investigating  e-Ammonia  from  Morocco22, and the Australian  govern - 
ment  is investigating  method  for delivering  green  hydrogen  to Japan.17,23 
 
 
 
 
 
Box 2: Bringing  fertilizer  production  back  to South  America  
 
Fertilizer  production  and export  is an old industry  in 
Chile  and Peru,  dating  to the guano  boom  in the 19th 
century.  Guano  (dried  excrement  from  birds  and bats)  
was harvested  and mined  from  the dry coast  of South  
America  for direct  use as fertilizer  and feedstock  for 
explosives  around  the world.  The invention  of the 
Haber -Bosch  process  disrupted  this Industry  in the 
early  20th century.  One hundred  years  later,  the very 
same  Haber -Bosch  synthesis  process  presents  the 
opportunity  for these  regions  of Latin  America  to 
participate  in global  fertilizer  production  once  again.  
There  is also export  potential  to Asia for energy  as 
well as supplying  bunker  fuel to various  ports  if 
e-Ammonia  becomes  a key fuel for international  
shipping.  In particular,  the Panama  Canal  sees  
substantial  international  shipping  container  traffic,  
as do ports  in Brazil,  Mexico,  Colombia  and other  
countries  in Latin  America.  
 
 
 
 
Workers  load  guano  onto  a cart in 1865  
 
 
 
 
 
4.3 A new  wave  of green  industry  
Industrial  revolutions  disrupt  industries  but also open  new  opportunities  at the same  time.  For ammonia,  the opportunity  
is large  to expand  the market  into the energy  sector  with  space  for new  producers.  Regions  with  favorable  renewable  
resources  can lead in adopting  e-Ammonia  technology  in this sustainable  industrial  revolution.  Furthermore,  e-Ammonia  
offers  opportunity  to further  refine  “raw  materials”  of sun and wind  to establish  local  value -add industry  of higher  value  
chemicals  that contribute  to the decarbonization  of the global  value  chain.  
 
 
 
 
21 IRENA.  (2019).  Hydrogen:  A Renewable  Energy  Perspective.  International  Renewable  Energy  Agency.  
22 Wolfgang  Eichhammer,  Stella  Oberle,  Michael  Händel,  Inga  Boie,  Till Gnann,  Martin  Wietschel,  Benjamin  Lux; STUDY  ON THE OPPORTU - 
NITIES  OF „POWER -TO-X“ IN MOROCCO.  Fraunhofer  Institute  for Systems  and Innovation  Research  ISI. Feb 2019.  
23 Australia’s  National  Hydrogen  Strategy  2019.  COAG  Energy  Council,  Commonwealth  of Australia.  
White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  15  
Frei verwendbar   
 
 
 
5. Conclusions  
1. Ammonia  production  is a mature,  global  chemical  industry  that needs  to decarbonize.  
2. Producing  e-Ammonia  is feasible  today  with  industrially  mature  technology.  
3. Ammonia  is energy  dense,  easy  to store  and transport,  and has a global  supply  chain  network.  
4. E-Ammonia  will be competitive  in the near -term  in geographies  with  low-cost renewable  electricity  and high  capacity  
factors,  such  as Chile,  Morocco,  and Australia.  
5. Existing  markets  for e-Ammonia  include  feedstock  for fertilizers  and other  chemicals.  
6. Future  and emerging  markets  for e-Ammonia  include  shipping  fuel,  energy  storage,  and carrying  hydrogen  to end 
users.  
7. Development  is ongoing  in using  ammonia  for power  and other  energy  needs  as well as delivering  pure  hydrogen  to 
various  consumers.  
 
 
 

 
Frei ver wendbar  
White  paper  l Power -to-X: A closer  look at e-Ammonia  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published  by 
 
Siemens  Energy  Global  GmbH  & Co. KG 
Otto -Hahn -Ring  6 
81739  Munich,  Germany  
 
Siemens  Energy,  Inc. 
15375  Memorial  Drive,  Suite  700 
Houston, Texas  77079,  USA 
For more  information,  please  contact:  
support.energy@siemens.com  
Editors:  
Dr. Fenna  Bleyl,  Ute Rohr  
Authors:  
Zac Cesaro,  Dr. Ian Wilkinson,  and Andreas  Eisfelder  
Graphics:  
independent  Medien -Design,  Munich,  Germany  and Siemens  Gas and Power  GmbH  & Co. KG 
 
 
© Siemens  Energy,  2021  
Siemens  Energy  is a registered  trademark  licensed  by Siemens  AG. 
 
 
Siemens  Energy  is one of the world’s  leading  energy  technology  companies.  The company  works  with  its customers  and part-ners on energy  
systems  for the future,  thus  supporting  the transition  to a more  sustainable  world.  With  its portfolio  of prod -ucts,  solutions  and services,  Siemens  
Energy  covers  almost  the entire  energy  value  chain  – from  power  generation  and trans -mission  to storage.  The portfolio  includes  conventional  and 
renewable  energy  technology,  such  as gas and steam  turbines,  hybrid  power  plants  operated  with  hydrogen,  and power  generators  and 
transformers.  More  than  50 percent  of the portfolio  has already  been  decarbonized.  A majority  stake  in the listed  company  Siemens  Gamesa  
Renewable  Energy  (SGRE)  makes  Siemens  Energy  a global  market  leader  for renewable  energies.  An estimated  one-sixth  of the electricity  
generated  worldwide  is based  on technologies  from  Siemens  Energy.  Siemens  Energy  employs  more  than  90,000  people  worldwide  in more  than  
90 countries  and generated  revenue  of around  €27.5  billion  in fiscal  year 2020.  www.siemens -energy.com  
 
 
Disclaimer  
Subject  to changes  and errors.  The information  given  in this document  only contains  general  descriptions  and/or  performance  features  which  may 
not always  specifically  reflect  those  described,  or which  may undergo  modification  in the course  of fur-ther development  of the products.  The 
requested  performance  features  are binding  only when  they  are expressly  agreed  upon  in the concluded  contract.  All product  designations  may be 
trademarks  or product  names  of Siemens  Energy  Global  GmbH  & Co. KG or other  companies  whose  use by third  parties  for their  own  purposes  
could  violate  the rights  of the owners.  
All product  designations  may be trademarks  or product  names  of Siemens  Energy  Global  GmbH  & Co. KG or other  companies  whose  use by third  
parties  for their  own  purposes  could  violate  the rights  of the owners.  
 
 
© 2021  Siemens  Energy  Page  16 