POWER ENGINEERING INTERNATIONAL
DECEMBER 2021Flexible fuel gas turbines 
meet airports’ power 
needs for today and 
tomorrow
Airport Milano Malpensa, Italy. Image credit: SEA Energia
One of the areas that attention is 
being focused on is the aviation 
industry. As hubs of the sector, 
airports are under increasing 
pressure to reduce their operations’ carbon 
footprint. 
Within Europe, the European Green Deal 
sets the objective of making Europe the 
first climate-neutral continent by 2050: 
a commitment that places a particular 
responsibility on the aviation sector. In 
response to the European Green Deal the 
aviation industry has brought forward this 
date, ensuring that by 2030 European 
airports will have a zero-carbon footprint.
Emissions from airports fall under scope 1, 2 and 3 accounting as defined by the 
GHG Protocol. Scope 1 is emissions from 
airport-owned or controlled sources, 
such as airport-owned power plants 
that burn fossil fuel and conventional 
vehicles or ground support equipment 
that uses fossil fuels. Scope 2 covers 
indirect emissions from the use of 
purchased energy for electricity and 
heat. In contrast, scope 3 covers indirect 
emissions that the airport does not 
control but can influence, such as tenant 
emissions, on-airport aircraft emissions 
and emissions from passenger vehicles 
arriving at or departing the airport.
The EU Commission’s more recent 
Sustainable and Smart Mobility Strategy reiterates the urgency of transitioning 
to zero-emission airports, whereby the 
best practices followed by the most 
sustainable airports must become the 
new normal and enable more sustainable 
forms of connectivity.
Milan leading the way to reducing 
emissions
Between them, Milan’s two biggest 
airports, Malpensa (MXP) and Linate 
(LIN), handle 33 million passengers a 
year during regular times. Malpensa is 
one of the most important airports in 
Europe, offering 3,500 direct flights each 
week and numerous intercontinental 
and long-haul destinations for a total 
of 200 destinations. Keeping these 
Despite the financial and operational challenges brought to bear by 
the global pandemic, the aviation industry reaffirmed their global 
commitment to Net Zero at COP26 Transport Day. 
DECEMBER 2021POWER ENGINEERING INTERNATIONAL
airports running efficiently requires 
reliable power. SEA Energia (Società 
Esercizi Aeroportuali) is responsible for 
the electricity, heating, and cooling of 
these two airports. The company needed 
to revamp its existing power plant at 
Milano Malpensa Airport to meet stricter 
environmental legislation and ensure 
a reliable supply of power, heating, 
and cooling. The path they took was 
to replace an existing aero-derivative 
turbine with a Siemens Energy gas 
turbine of type SGT-700.
SEA Energia operates on an exclusive 
basis for a single major customer, 
producing electrical, heating, and cooling 
energy. The company’s strategic vision 
focuses on the sustainable generation of 
value across its three main components: 
economic, environmental, and social. 
Its operations at the two airports aim 
to save resources, reduce air, soil, and 
water pollution, and constantly monitor 
activities to ensure maximum system 
efficiency. 
Part of the concept includes upgrading 
the existing power plant at Milano 
Malpensa by replacing one of two 
existing aero-derivative turbines, an 
ageing Rolls Royce RB211, with one new 
SGT-700. This gas turbine is an ideal fit 
for power generation and mechanical 
drive applications. With the high exhaust 
heat, it is also excellent for cogeneration 
and combined cycle applications. The 
SGT-700 employs an 11-stage axial-
flow transonic compressor incorporating 
the latest aerodynamics, with variable 
guide vanes for robust operability and 
optimized performance over a wide 
range of operating conditions. The 
two-stage uncooled free power turbine 
offers a nominal shaft speed of up to 
6,500 rpm. For mechanical drive, it 
may run at 50% to 105% of the nominal 
rate. The power turbine can be matched 
for optimal performance at different 
ambient conditions. The installation of 
the new gas turbine will help SEA Energia 
enhance their plant performance both 
from an efficiency and an environmental 
perspective.
Siemens Energy preserved much of 
the existing plant and allowed power 
generation continuity on the second 
RB211 turbine that was to remain 
in place. As the airport continued to 
operate, it was essential to avoid any 
disruptions to the power plant’s regular 
operation. 
Overcoming a triumvirate of challenges
To ensure the successful delivery of the project, three significant challenges 
had to be overcome. The first was to 
ensure that there was no interruption or 
disruption to the operation of the power 
plant. To achieve this required Siemens 
Energy to install the new turbine into the 
system without jeopardizing the plant’s 
regular operation. 
Then came the actual logistics. This was 
the first SGT-700 delivered by air freight 
instead of traditional sea routing. This 
involved some tricky discussions with 
the air freight company regarding fitting 
the turbine inside the Antonov transport 
plane.
Finally, there were the challenges presented by COVID-19. The pandemic 
struck the world early in 2020, and 
the effects are continuing to disrupt 
operations. This had a significant impact 
on the supply chain for manufacturing 
the turbine. Several suppliers closed 
their premises or reduced capacity due 
to pandemic working practices. It took a 
considerable effort from the purchasing 
department to ensure that the schedule 
was kept on track. 
Further complications arose because of 
the lack of face-to-face meetings with 
stakeholders and EHS organizations on 
the site during the progress of the project. 
A worldwide footprint limited the possible 
negative impacts, and delivery of the 
new SGT-700 package was achieved on 
schedule.
A smooth commissioning process
The project kicked off at Malpensa in 
June 2020 when the Siemens Energy team 
arrived on-site to begin site preparation. 
The old turbine was removed and shipped Martino Bosatra, Board Member and Managing Director at 
SEA Energi. Image credit: SEA Energia.This was the 
first SGT-700 
delivered by air 
freight instead 
of traditional sea 
routing.
POWER ENGINEERING INTERNATIONAL
DECEMBER 2021
back to the RB211 refurbishment site in the 
UK. The requirement that this be achieved 
whilst not disrupting the plant’s performance 
presented some challenges, particularly 
with the narrow spaces in the area due to 
the presence of existing equipment. This 
was particularly problematic when it came 
to the lifting operations: with the existing 
package weighing over 150 tonnes and 
measuring 14 meters in length, this 
required careful coordination. The current 
air intake, ventilation intake and local 
electrical room had to be preserved and 
adapted for the new turbine. 
Once the old turbine had been removed, 
the foundations were checked and 
repaired, and the gas turbine and 
associated generator were delivered to the 
site in November. Once the turbine was in 
place, installation could begin. 
Firstly, it was connected to the existing 
system, both mechanically and electrically, 
before checking the instrumentation and 
the interface with the control system. Then 
came commissioning, which involves 
confirming that the reinstalled system 
could communicate with the existing plant. With this checked, the machine could 
be connected to the power grid with gas 
fed to the turbine for the first firing. In 
this process, the machine is fired up and 
allowed to rotate while connected. If that 
is successful, the next step is to connect 
the machine and synchronize it to the 
grid. Once it has passed these steps, the 
circuit breakers are closed, and power can 
be fed to the grid.
Benefits for today and tomorrow
“The journey started more than three 
years ago with a challenging permit 
process, which is now completed,” said 
Martino Bosatra, CEO of Sea Energia. 
“During this journey, a strong relationship 
has been built between Sea Energia 
and Siemens Energy. This relationship 
has created, for both partners, a lot of 
value, especially in terms of learning 
and collaboration but also in identifying 
potential solutions which might help SEA 
to reach its own target in carbon footprint 
reduction.”
Once the plant is up and running in 
June, SEA Energia will enjoy three 
significant benefits: lower emissions, 
higher efficiency, and greater reliability. 
It will allow SEA Energia to comply with 
the ever more restrictive regulations on 
emission limits set by the Italian Region 
of Lombardy for power plants. The SGT-
700 will significantly decrease the site’s 
emissions while meeting all the airport’s 
requirements for power, heat and cooling. 
The contract guarantees compliance with 
the emission limits for environmental pollutants, especially NOx, CO and PM. 
With the SGT-700 optimizing the output, 
higher energy efficiency can be achieved. 
The turbine will also improve reliability to 
the customer with its proven track record 
of hundreds of thousands of working 
hours worldwide.
For SEA Energia, the prime focus was 
on improving the airport’s day-to-day 
operation, but above and beyond that, 
there are further possibilities down 
the road. One opportunity could be to 
partake in the grid capacity markets that 
allow generators to sell any extra capacity 
back to the power grid. Although market 
conditions do not make that a priority at 
present, it is an option for the future. 
Secondly, and more relevant over the long 
term, is the turbine’s flexibility towards fuel. 
While natural gas is the preferred option, 
there is a growing movement towards 
utilizing hydrogen for power generation. 
With technology now available to generate 
green hydrogen, hydrogen produced using 
only renewable energy – a technology 
that Siemens has developed with its Silyzer 
electrolysers – the path is open to making 
the power plant’s environmental footprint 
even smaller. 
Siemens Energy is already running the 
turbines with a mix of gas and hydrogen 
and guarantees that by 2030 all SE gas 
turbines will run entirely on hydrogen. This 
is a significant assertion for operators, 
reassuring them that their investment will 
continue to be futureproof whatever the 
future path of the energy transition.For SEA Energia, 
the prime 
focus was on 
improving the 
airport’s day-to-
day operation...
The Siemens Energy SGT-700 gas turbine. Image credit: Siemens Energy