THE ENERGY INDUSTRY TIMES - SEPTEMBER 2021
Special Technology Supplement
Industrial gas turbines:  
the perfect complement for renewables-plus-storage
With the growth in 
variable renewables, energy storage is expected to be the key technology for providing grid support and shifting renewable power to when it’s needed. Siemens Energy’s Anders Stuxberg explains to  
TEI Times why industrial gas turbines will be crucial in complementing renewables-plus-storage in an optimised system. Junior Isles
prices for final consumers, and the use 
of smart meters.
“When you look at the demand for 
balancing power, storage solutions are efficient systems, with up to 80 per cent of the energy coming back [from the storage]. But it is not eco-nomical to design an energy storage system for all possible situations. And when you empty the storage, you have to fill-in with something else,” said Stuxberg.
That “something else”, he says, will 
typically be (fuel fired) thermal plants, i.e. the backup power capacity that must exist in the grid anyway to ensure reliable supply when there is no wind or solar for a long period.
There are several options as to 
which technology, or group of tech-nologies, can support renewables-plus-storage depending on the sce-nario. For example, arguments are sometimes made for fuel cells while other experts present compelling cases for fast-start generating assets such as gas turbines and reciprocating engines. 
Stuxberg believes industrial gas 
turbines are currently the best all-round option. He commented: “In a deeply decarbonised energy system, gas turbines will play a key role both for mid-merit power supply and as backup power. Although some argue that fuel cells will take that role, that can only happen if fuel cells for a fully functional and installed power generation plant become cheaper than gas turbines. We are not there today and I believe that if it happens, it will take many decades. Fuel cells, though, are already a good option for microgrids and mobility applications. The requirement that backup power also should be fuel flexible, e.g. use both hydrogen and liquid renewable With the urgent need to combat climate change, wind and solar power are growing at a 
phenomenal rate. According to the International Energy Agency, renew-ables will meet 80 per cent of global electricity demand growth during the next decade. Solar PV , for example, dubbed by the IEA as “the new king” of electricity supply, grows by an average of 13 per cent per year between 2020 and 2030, meeting almost one-third of electricity demand growth over the period.
The variable nature of wind and 
solar, however, presents challenges in terms of grid stability and how best to provide backup power for when the wind is not blowing or the sun is not shining.
With targets set for reaching zero 
carbon emissions in the electricity sector, clearly the goal must be to support renewables as far as possible with energy storage – a zero carbon source of grid flexibility. The ques-tion, however, is what generating as-sets to deploy alongside storage, and how to achieve the best mix of storage and those assets in terms of cost and operability.
Anders Stuxberg, Specialist in 
Power Plant Process Integration at Siemens Energy AB said: “Gas tur -
bines (GTs) will be the technology of choice to be dispatched when storage power capacities are insufficient for the demand and also when the storage becomes emptied. If you look at bal-ancing supply and demand through the grid in general, you have to look at it over a number of different time-frames. The system has to be man-aged, second-by-second, minute-by-minute, hour-by-hour, using different technologies. You also have to look at balancing over longer timeframes… The question is how to optimise these storage and generating resources. Storage will handle the bulk of energy for balancing, but there will not be a business case to try to cover every-thing with storage alone, you will need to complement it with GTs.
“By implementing storage, the op-
erating profile for GT-based plants will be significantly changed. GTs will be a cornerstone of the grid infra-structure but with a new role in future compared to what we have been used to seeing. You will see a shift to backup power instead of peaking units and flexible mid-merit com-bined cycle plants instead of baseload plants; this will favour industrial GTs for new installations. Industrial gas turbines are also suited to use hydro-gen as fuel and fuels produced through power-to-X schemes,” said Stuxberg.
With storage expected to take cen-
tre-stage in maximising the integra -
tion of renewables and distributed generating sources, the market for the technology is forecasted to grow exponentially over the next decade (see box). 
Regardless of which of the various 
storage solutions is selected, however, they are all generally limited by two parameters: power capacity and en-ergy capacity, i.e. duration of storage at full power. Stuxberg noted that when optimising storage solutions, power plant owners will size for the most frequent instances that give the most energy trade volume and then leave the residual load to some other technology.
He said: “There will be many days 
the energy in the storage is insufficient for the demand and many days when storage systems have less power ca-pacity than needed, at least during part of the dispatch duration. So other technologies will be called for both at surge of power and of energy, there will be a play between different types of storage solutions and capacity backup.”
He also noted: “Storage technolo-
gies that can shift operating mode af-ter the storage is emptied – continuing power production by firing a supple-mentary fuel – will also play a role in backup supply, i.e. double benefits to the system. Examples are: power-to-hydrogen-to-power where the hydro-gen-to power unit (gas turbine) oper -
ates on e-methanol when the gas storage is emptied, or a thermal stor -
age plant that also can run by firing of e-ammonia when the thermal storage is emptied.” 
Stuxberg says there will also be 
competition between storage and demand response (DR). If altering the time of energy use (e.g. smart charging electric cars) does not dam-age business, then DR will be more efficient and cost competitive than storage. 
Many types of DR will, however, be 
limited in much the same way as stor -
age. For example, duration – mainly limited by the nature of the demand that has been put on hold – will nor -
mally be limited to a number of hours. The amount of DR that will be avail-able naturally depends on the price incentive, the volatility of energy Power plant owners will optimise storage solutions size for the most frequent instances that give the most energy trade volume and leave the residual load to another technology
Don’t let balancing power capacity get out of balance
Storage will handle the bulk of energy for balancing but it will need to be complemented with GTs
slightly more expensive power than 
the storage system. If the dispatch is 
just based on a commercial energy 
trade, then hybrid plants comprising a 
combination of e.g. renewable power, 
storage and GT may be a good busi-
ness as smarter dispatch can be 
achieved.” 
Typically, many gas turbines will be 
installed in an electric grid to provide 
the necessary backup power. The 
dispatch order for these will be based 
on cost or environmental footprint. 
Since the requirement will be for a 
fairly low dispatch rate, Stuxberg 
says a large portion of dispatch may 
be based on capacity auctions where 
a fixed compensation for just existing 
as available backup is paid out. 
If efficiency is also credited, e.g. by 
dispatch order, then a fair portion of 
these cycling GTs will be configured 
as combined cycle. However, the 
bottoming steam cycle must then be 
suited to frequent starts, i.e. fast and 
with low start-up cost. Stuxberg notes 
that in a future where these mid-merit 
plants need to operate on renewable 
fuel, which will be expensive, a bot-
toming cycle will be required for 
many of these plants for the sake of 
opex. The remaining plants, which 
will have a low dispatch rate of, say, 
less than 500 hours per year, will not 
be so sensitive to efficiency but will 
need to have low capex and fixed 
standstill cost.
“So, for the power generation busi-
ness, we will see two typical types of 
GT plants for the future: combined 
cycle plants for cycling operation, 
dispatching in a mid-merit pattern of 
somewhere between 1000 and 3000 
hours per year; and simple cycle 
plants, with dispatch often less than 
500 hours per year. The traditional base load plant is thus replaced by a 
very flexible mid-merit plant, while 
the traditional peaking plant is re-
placed by demand response and stor -
age solutions plus a large quantity of 
backup power.”
His absolute conviction is that in-
dustrial gas turbines present the best 
suitability to this type of future duty 
for both these plant types. “They have 
very high reliability due to simplicity 
in design concept, high combined 
cycle efficiency, low price, low main-
tenance cost, good fuel flexibility and 
much better grid stabilisation charac-
teristics (by high inertia and strong 
control response) than aeroderivative 
GTs or recip engines,” he said.
For both these plant types, his ex-
pectation is that there will be an aver -
age of one start every one to four 
days, most frequent for the mid-merit 
type. Stuxberg predicts a wide operat-
ing regime for such gas turbine plants. 
For demand response (DR) and for 
energy storage systems, he noted that 
they will dominate dispatch of bal-
ancing power for short duration and 
during periods of low demand for re-
sidual power. 
He noted, however: “When looking 
at capacity it is hard to rule out rare 
events with low probability, thus in-
stalled GT power capacity in the grid 
will need to be large. The scale of 
backup capacity needed depends 
predominantly on the capacity factor fuel is also a cost issue, if not a prob-
lem, for fuel cell plants. 
“Reciprocating engines compared 
with gas turbines have pros and cons. 
In short, they are less efficient than 
combined cycles and are more expen-
sive per capacity than simple cycle 
GTs, with the exception of emergency 
diesels gensets, which have a shorter 
lifespan. For mid-merit operation, 
maintenance cost is an important 
factor to consider – industrial GTs 
have lower maintenance cost than, 
e.g. recip engines or fuel cells.”
He also notes that conventional 
boilers with steam plants are too in-
flexible to handle the frequent starts 
and stops to balance residual power 
demand. Further, their efficiency is 
low, especially if designed for renew-
able fuels such as biomass.
Based on the shortcomings of these 
technologies, Stuxberg believes the 
focus for grid balancing should there-
fore be on a blend of industrial gas 
turbines (IGTs) and storage solutions 
and a probable future dispatch profile 
for those assets.
IGTs in the range up to 70 MW are 
typically used in a number of applica-
tions. CHP applications are common 
across the whole range due to their 
ability to meet heat demand. The 
smaller machines may be deployed in 
settings like hospitals, universities, 
small industries and O&G, to provide 
power in areas where the grid is not 
completely stable or onsite generation 
is required. Medium-sized machines 
in the upper range of 30-70 MW may 
be used by, independent power pro-
ducers (IPPs), industrial CHP asset 
owners, the O&G industry, munici-
palities producing electrical power 
for the grid and heat for district heat-
ing networks, as well as utilities.
Stuxberg believes the operating 
profile of IGTs in the future will not 
be same as the peaking units of today. 
Units in the future he says might start-
up and shut down once a day during 
parts of the year, be in standby other 
periods and also occasionally run for 
a longer period, as opposed to cycling 
several times per day. 
With storage expected to be the first 
option for supplying multiple daily 
power peaks, operators must then 
decide how gas turbines will operate 
to complement this storage.
Stuxberg foresees gas turbines be-
ing dispatched when the energy re-
quired exceeds what is available in 
the storage. This will likely be after 
the large afternoon/early night peak 
or possibly in the morning. Gas tur -
bines will also be called for when all 
storage solutions are already provid-
ing near full power capacity, i.e. typi-
cally during the evening peak.
He explained: “If GTs are being 
called on every day for one of the two 
reasons, power surge or energy surge, then that’s a signal to storage inves-
tors that here you have an attractive 
business opportunity – just buy some 
more capacity. It’s low-hanging fruit. 
So my conclusion is that GTs will 
typically start once every 2-4 days on 
average; some days they might be 
called on twice and many other days 
not at all.
“Traditional peaking plants and 
base load plants will no longer be 
suitable for this kind of market. So if 
we have a GT on the system to ensure 
backup anyway, the question is: 
should you operate it for more hours, 
which means more fuel consumption, 
or should you make the storage 
slightly bigger?”
According to Stuxberg, that optimi-
sation determines how the gas turbine 
is operated, the type of turbine se-
lected and whether the plant should 
be simple cycle or combined cycle.
He explained: “Generally, each ad-
dition of duration for a storage tech-
nology comes at an added investment, 
which needs to be paid for by less and 
less events since long duration events 
are less frequent than shorter events. 
The marginal cost of longer operation 
for a GT plant firing renewable fuel 
on the other hand is constant as it just 
adds fuel consumption (fuel storage is 
relatively cheap). The duration at the 
cross-over point between technolo-
gies depends on event probability, a 
number of economic factors and 
choice of technology. The decreasing 
probability of long events explains 
why even pumped hydro plants, at 
present, often are sized to fit just one 
day cycles.”
He added: “Grid balancing of up to 
a couple hundred megawatts would 
be fairly common. This could be di-
vided across a number of machines so 
you can follow demand better without 
running machines at part-load.”
Such an installation would have to 
be capable of meeting several require-
ments. Firstly, it should be capable of 
starting “reasonably” fast. 
“If there is some kind of communi-
cation protocol (using new IT solu-
tions and advanced forecasting tools) 
in the market telling GT operators to 
start in fair time before stored energy 
runs out, then very fast GT start is not 
required, 20 minutes should suffice,” 
said Stuxberg. “Also when power 
capacity becomes the issue, it should 
on most occasions be possible to 
predict when to dispatch GTs. How-
ever, power peaks come faster than 
drainage of energy, so here dispatch 
centres can reserve some power in the 
storage by starting the GTs a bit in 
advance when a demand ramp-up is 
expected. Here a fast GT start pays off 
a little as there is less need to reserve 
power from storage dispatch and thus 
there is a bit less operation of the GTs, 
which could be assumed to produce Special Technology SupplementTHE ENERGY INDUSTRY TIMES - SEPTEMBER 2021
IGTs such as the SGT-800 are 
typically used in a number of 
applications
The dispatch order for 
GTs in the grid for backup 
will be based on cost or 
environmental footprint
Stuxberg: in a deeply  
decarbonised energy system, 
gas turbines will play a key 
role both for mid-merit power 
supply and as backup power
THE ENERGY INDUSTRY TIMES - SEPTEMBER 2021
through to morning and for the bal-
ancing duty that storage solutions 
would otherwise provide, as there is 
no surplus renewable power during 
the day for charging the storage. 
Here, high efficiency storage is 
charged from high efficiency mid-
merit GT plants during the day, as 
this limits the need of thermal plant 
capacity during the peaks. The result 
is that the required thermal plant ca-
pacity is about twice the capacity of 
installed storage. 
If DR is added, it would reduce the 
required amount of storage as well as 
the power capacity for storage charg-
ing/discharging during an average 
wind day. In the low wind scenario, it 
would also reduce the need for in-
stalled thermal capacity, as it flattens 
the thermal power supply. 
“Naturally reality is more complex 
than these simple scenarios, with sea-
sonal variations on both demand and 
supply, effects of clouding, fast fluc-
tuations, grid disturbances etc.,” noted 
Stuxberg.
Fuel flexibility also has to be a key 
consideration. If a machine is oper -
ated for less than 1000 hours/year, 
the impact of fuel consumption on 
environment and economics is rela -
tively small. However, the goal is to of wind and solar and level of long 
distance power transmission. Up to 
about 50 per cent of grid capacity may 
be expected; in isolated grids or grids 
with weak connection to other grids 
one may even argue for 100 per cent. 
When you also look at resilience and 
tolerance for grid failures most of the 
GT installations should be distributed 
in the grid, this favours mid-sized gas 
turbines as well as flexible CHP. In 
large, high capacity grids, large GTs 
will also be attractive for backup 
power capacity due to low specific 
investment.
“When looking at energy supply 
rather than the installed capacity, de-
mand response and storage will dis-
patch maybe 80 per cent of all energy 
needed for grid balancing and GTs 
only the remaining 20 per cent. Those 
GTs should preferably operate on re-
newable fuel.” he added.
The figure below shows demand as 
well as solar and wind supply in a 
simplified fictitious medium size 
grid. On the left, wind supply during 
an average day, where energy fed into 
storage covers about 85 per cent of 
the balancing need. On the right, 
where wind supply is low, thermal 
power generation is needed to replace 
lower wind supply during the evening run turbines on renewable fuels, and 
uncertain policy in the long-term out-
look in this area is a challenge.
Stuxberg said: “There are a number 
of optional renewable fuels for use in 
GTs, hydrogen being one of the top 
candidates, but today we don’t know 
which of these will be economical or 
available in the future and obviously 
it will always depend on the site loca-
tion and operating profile. But the 
point is, industrial gas turbines are 
flexible”
The market for IGT-based grid 
balancing assets is huge – anywhere 
in the world where there is renew-
ables growth calling for day-to-day 
renewables support, while offering 
emergency backup for the grid. 
There is also room for large frame 
gas turbines, where countries have 
large robust grids.
“In Sweden, we have a lot of hy-
dropower but when we close down 
nuclear capacity and replace with 
wind farms, there isn’t enough ca-
pacity to handle the residual power 
peaks. There we will see a large de-
mand for [GT] backup power. Those 
machines would probably operate 
for less than 10 per cent of the time. 
In many markets today, there is no 
compensation for having capacity in place and that is an issue. 
“Grid integrity and resilience via 
sufficient backup should mainly be 
seen as part of the grid infrastructure 
rather than energy trade. Solving 
backup power supply with existing 
coal fired plants is a route that has 
already proven a failure as it counter -
acts the greenhouse gas savings from 
renewable power, i.e. incentives for 
investment in more suitable backup 
technology is needed” said Stuxberg.
He concluded: “Renewables and 
storage systems will play the major 
future role for energy supply but that 
requires a lot of flexible backup and 
for that gas turbines are the most cost 
effective today – if you need to build 
capacity today; it’s gas turbines. 
“We can only speculate on what 
will happen in the future through 
development of other technologies. 
But we need to change the energy 
system now. With the environmental 
challenge, we cannot wait 30 years; 
so we have to base it on the technol -
ogy we have today and industrial gas 
turbines is an available technology 
well fit for the purpose. Backup 
power also needs to be installed 
ahead of renewable implementation 
to ensure grid resilience, so the need 
is urgent.” Demand, solar and wind 
supply in a simplified 
fictitious medium size gridSpecial Technology Supplement
The energy storage market is forecasted to grow exponentially
All storage technologies can store surplus renewable energy and return it to the 
grid later, thus avoiding curtailment and increasing the use of renewable power.
According to analysis from IHS Markit, annual installations of energy storage 
capacity globally will exceed 10 GW in 2021, more than doubling the 4.5 GW in -
crease in 2020. The existing capacity in stationary energy storage is dominated 
by pumped-storage hydropower (PSH), but because of decreasing prices, new 
projects are generally lithium-ion (Li-ion) batteries. 
PSH capacity additions are predicted to remain constant at 5-10 GW per year, 
while battery capacity is expected to grow from 2.3 GW/year in 2018 to above 
30 GW/year in 2050. Total installed storage capacity was around 170 GW in 
2019, a figure that is expected to reach 950 GW by 2050, according to IHS 
Markit. 
Another report – ‘The Energy Storage Grand Challenge Energy Storage Mar -
ket Report 2020’ – published by the US Department of Energy forecasts a 27 
per cent compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for grid-related storage through 
to 2030. It projects annual grid-related global employment to increase about 15 
times from around 10 GWh in 2019 to almost 160 GWh in 2030. 
The type of storage deployed will depend on grid design and the distribution 
of generating plants and loads unique to each grid. The technology selected 
depends on which offers the best economic and operational capability according 
to the services, range of capacity and energy discharge duration needed.
Super-capacitors and rotating grid stabilisers (flywheels and synchronous 
condensers) provide instantaneous system responses and grid control. Both 
technologies are aimed at applications in the range of approximately 1-100 MW.
Pumped storage hydro is the most dominant energy storage solution in terms of globally installed megawatt capacity, representing some 93 per cent of the  
operating system. It is a gigawatt-scale technology mostly used for energy shifting 
and high-capacity firming with storage durations of around days or weeks with mini -
mal energy losses. 
Further, capacity and operating reserve is provided when the asset is connected to 
the grid. But although a mature and widespread technology, its main drawback is the 
required topology of the site (large height differences are needed) and its physical 
impact on the environment.
Thermal energy storage (TES) can improve utilisation of waste heat, assist in the 
electrification of process heat supply, or store renewable energy for re-electrification 
using a steam turbine. TES can also be integrated with thermal generation plants, 
e.g. a combined cycle plant. A wide variety of heat storage media are available, 
including liquids such as molten salt and pressurised water, or solids such as stone, 
steel, concrete, or sand.
Liquid air energy storage (LAES) and compressed air energy storage (CAES) are 
further technologies aimed at gigawatt-scale applications. LAES is based on the 
cryogenic liquefaction of air when it is compressed with the use of (preferably) 
renewable electricity. The liquid and the produced heat can be easily stored and 
discharged when needed for re-electrification. CAES works similar but stores com -
pressed air. By adding a thermal storage to this technology, the overall efficiency is 
improved.
Li-Ion batteries are currently the technology of choice driven by their cost-effective-
ness and speed characteristics. They offer several applications, such as frequency 
response, flexibility enhancements of conventional power generation assets, black 
start capabilities or energy arbitrage. Their sweet spot is up to around 250 MW and 5 
hours of duration. 
siemens-energy.com/ decarbonizationLET’S MAKE TOMORROW DIFFERENT TODAY.Improving efficiency of our energy systems. Replacing 
conventional fuels with cleaner options. Building highly flexible hybrid systems. This is how we lead the way to mitigate the impact of climate change.Decarbonizing
our energy systems   is a journey of many steps.Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Anzeige Decarbonization_Englisch_290x386mm_210825.indd   1Anzeige Decarbonization_Englisch_290x386mm_210825.indd   1 26.08.21   12:0226.08.21   12:02