BASF has set its sights on making its Schwarzheide production 
site one of its first CO2-neutral locations. The company recently 
modernised the power plant, replacing an existing gas turbine with 
a Siemens Energy SGT-800 and also installing a battery system 
for black-start capabilities. Junior Isles hears how carrying out the 
upgrade was somewhat akin to open-heart surgery. 
one hand, our steam consumption had 
decreased, but we knew that in the 
next two or three years we would 
have an increasing need for electricity. 
So we wanted to prepare for this by 
modernising the power plant.”
But this would be no regular mod-
ernisation. With closing the plant 
temporarily not an option, Siemens 
Energy would have to work closely 
with BASF to carry out the exchange 
on the live power plant – keeping one 
power train in operation while carry-
ing out extensive alterations to the 
other line. It would be sort of an “open 
heart surgery”, as the teams called it.
“Working while the plant is in op-
eration presents certain challenges. 
Any vibration during assembly might 
cause our gas turbine to stop mid-op-
eration,” said DeKeyser. 
Commenting on the project’s ori-
gins, Bernd Künstler, Key Account 
Manager at Siemens Energy said: 
“The contract for the project was 
signed in 2019. But we were engaged 
in initial talks in late 2017 when they 
said they would like to replace one of 
the turbines at the Schwarzheide 
plant. We figured out that it was a re-
ally difficult task, as it would require 
a lot of changes. It would have been a 
lot easier to replace the existing tur -
bine with a successor engine from project at the combined cycle plant 
powering its Schwarzheide facility in 
order to increase power output while 
cutting emissions.
Commenting on the rationale be-
hind the project, Jürgen Fuchs, Head 
of the Management Board of BASF 
Schwarzheide GmbH, said:  “We 
must keep our site competitive in or -
der to grow the business and attract 
investments. We’ve already achieved 
a lot here in the last few months and 
years. 
“When it comes to sustainability, 
we always talk about the triad of the 
environment, economy and society. 
Going forward we can use the op-
portunities provided by the need to 
change as a driver for our site’s 
growth. We will use eco-efficient 
technologies such as modernisation; 
integrate renewable energies and 
drive forward the circular economy. 
We want to do this to become one of 
the first BASF CO 2-neutral produc-
tion sites.”
As a growing location that is install-
ing new production systems and 
technologies, BASF Schwarzheide 
will need a very flexible energy sup-
ply at the site in the coming years. 
Julie DeKeyser, Head of Site Ser -
vices and Infrastructure at BASF 
Schwarzheide, explained: “On the Artist’s cutaway of an SGT-800 plant with batteries
Fuchs: We want to become one of the first BASF CO 2-neutral 
production sites
Schwarzheide opens its 
heart to carbon neutralitySpecial Project Supplement
As the world’s largest chemical 
producer, BASF has long been 
taking measures to minimise 
the impact of its operations on the 
environment. It is no surprise then that 
the company has set itself ambitious 
climate goals, striving to achieve net 
zero CO 2 emissions by 2050. 
In addition, the company wants to 
reduce its greenhouse gas emissions 
worldwide by 25 per cent by 2030 
compared with 2018. Excluding the 
effects of the planned growth – which 
includes the construction of a large 
Verbund site (a chemical production 
site with highly interlinked product 
flows) in South China – this means cutting CO 2 emissions by around a 
half in the current business by the end 
of this decade.
In 2021, BASF Group’s worldwide 
carbon emissions amounted to 
20.2 million tonnes of CO 2  equiva -
lent. In 1990, this figure was roughly 
twice as high. The new 2030 emis-
sions goal represents a reduction of 
approximately 60 per cent compared 
to 1990 levels, and exceeds the  
European Union’s target of a 55 per 
cent reduction.
In a move that is significant in 
achieving those targets, in 2019 the 
company engaged Siemens Energy to 
carry out a brownfield exchange 
THE ENERGY INDUSTRY TIMES - NOVEMBER 2022
support high maintainability.
The SGT-800’s 15-stage axial 
compressor has a pressure ratio of 
21.8 and has five compressor extrac -
tions at stages 3, 5, 8, 10 and 15. The 
machine’s compressor casing has a 
vertical-split plane to provide good 
access to the compressor compo-
nents for inspection.
Notably, the engine is cold-end 
driven – unlike the previously exist-
ing turbine, which was hot-end driven 
– and due to certain conditions, BASF 
stipulated that the existing turbine 
generator had to remain intact. This 
meant substantial changes to the 
generator to accommodate the SGT-
800, which consequently called for a 
new baseplate for the whole train. 
“This wasn’t part of Siemens Ener -
gy’s work, noted Künstler. “But they 
had to dig out the old massive con-
crete baseplate, do a forming structure 
onsite for the new one and lift it in 
place with a big crane. Doing it this 
way saved them time, since it allowed 
other work to be done in parallel.”
This was just one of several tricky 
changes that were needed. Künstler 
added: “With our machine being a 
cold-end drive, as opposed to hot-end, 
the generator had to be moved from 
one end of the drive train to the other. 
This resulted in a change in direction 
of rotation of the generator rotor. 
“Another change that was needed, 
was that the exhaust pipe of the gas 
turbine also had to be modified as the 
original machine had a vertical ex-
haust, while the SGT-800 has an axial 
exhaust.”
As the old generator was from an-
other OEM, manufacturing drawings 
had to be scanned and understood by 
the engineering department, said 
Künstler. “It was an engineering task 
but they were up for the challenge. 
The risk is that you have some over -
view drawings and ideas of what it 
might look like inside but you don’t 
know the truth until the patient is ly-
ing on the table. That was what we 
discovered when we disassembled 
the generator.” 
Once the generator was opened up, 
engineers were able to perform re-
verse engineering so that the neces-
sary modifications could be made. 
According to Siemens Energy, the 
generator is now in better condition 
than before and can now be taken to 
its performance limits. 
Following dismantling of the old 
gas turbine and generator around the 
end of October/beginning of No-
vember 2020, construction of the 
gas turbine was carried out in the Special Project SupplementTHE ENERGY INDUSTRY TIMES - NOVEMBER 2022
Model of the BASF 
Schwarzheide plantthat manufacturer but they were still 
very interested in replacing the tur -
bine despite the huge effort that was 
needed.” 
Siemens Energy therefore began 
developing the project with BASF 
and found that despite the level of 
difficulty, the resulting higher output 
and greater efficiency still made the 
project worthwhile in terms of the 
business case. For a company like 
BASF, operational expenditure 
(Opex) over the plant’s lifetime is as 
much of a consideration as capital 
cost.
“Opex was certainly one of the 
major selection criteria for choosing 
Siemens Energy turbine,” noted 
Künstler.
The Schwarzheide combined cycle 
plant has a ‘2+2’ configuration, 
meaning there are two power trains, 
each consisting of a gas turbine and 
steam turbine. The gas turbines were 
originally GE Frame 6Bs, while the 
steam turbines are Siemens Energy 
machines.
Although BASF considered other 
configurations for the modernisation, 
the decreasing steam consumption of 
the chemicals production facility was 
the main driver in how the modernised 
plant would be configured. BASF 
therefore decided the best option was 
to replace one of the gas turbines to 
increase power output, while lower -
ing fuel consumption.
Künstler added: “They also worked 
on the boiler; wherein the exhaust 
boiler behind the gas turbine was 
modified along with the plant distrib-
uted control system. These tasks were 
carried out by BASF.”
Due to key differences in design, the 
biggest undertaking in the project was 
the replacement of the existing gas 
turbine with a Siemens Energy SGT-
800 industrial gas turbine.
The new turbine has a maximum 
power output of 57 MW, although 
BASF will operate the unit at 52 MW. 
This compares to 40 MW from the old 
machine. The SGT-800 has a gross 
efficiency of 40.1 per cent, which ac-
cording to Künstler is currently the 
best-in-class in the 50-60 MW range. 
According to Siemens Energy, its 
design efficiency is up to 10 per cent 
higher than its nearest competitor.
The single-shaft engine is composed 
of a 2-bearing rotor with a 15-stage 
compressor and a 3-stage turbine. 
First- and second-stage blades and 
vanes are cooled, third-stage blades 
and vanes are uncooled, all three tur -
bine disks are cooled. The turbine 
section is designed as a module to Finspång, Sweden, plant from No-
vember 2020 to January 2021. After 
customer acceptance tests were 
completed, installation work for the 
gas turbine was carried out between 
April and October 2021. This was 
followed by hot commissioning and 
first fire in November.
The expansion of the BASF 
Schwarzheide power plant will see 
the chemical facility produce more 
materials for use in batteries for e-
mobility. This was one of the drivers 
behind the decision to install a Sie-
mens Energy SIESTART battery 
system for black-start of the power 
plant. The battery system has been 
designed for an output power of 2.4 
MW and an installed battery capacity 
of 1.7 MWh. 
“There is a huge installation cur -
rently going on to build a production 
plant for battery materials at the site,” 
said Künstler. “As they are expanding 
in this direction, the plant is going to 
get a perfect reference for an entire 
battery value chain from end-to-end 
– battery materials, battery technology 
and even battery recycling. So it’s not 
just talk, BASF lives it”
Black-start capability was a require-
ment for the power plant, and the 
battery system will be used to perform 
the duty of what would typically be 
handled by a diesel generator. As an 
innovative company, BASF was open 
to the idea. 
“This is not completely new but it’s 
also not standard [practice]; it’s a development that BASF saw as in-
novative. So this is another opportu-
nity for us to demonstrate and prove 
the technology,” said Künstler. “Also 
CO 2 emissions are a lot lower [than 
from a diesel genset].”
The SIESTART system is designed 
to provide the maximum loads of the 
turbine start motor and of the auxil-
iary equipment (1.8 MW for the 
starter motor and 0.4-0.5 MW for 
auxiliary equipment) to perform at 
least three sequential black-starts. It is 
designed to operate for ten years but a 
capacity extension at the end of its 
designed lifetime is possible to com-
pensate for the ageing and capacity 
degradation. 
In addition to ticking the environ-
mental box, battery systems have 
several advantages over diesel en-
gines. According to Siemens Energy, 
battery storage black-start systems 
require less maintenance than diesel 
gensets and are more reliable when 
needed. A diesel generator requires 
fuel feed lines; space for fuel stor -
age; it has to be started monthly; and 
fuel needs to be changed annually if 
not used.
Künstler noted: “Diesel engines of-
ten have starting problems when they 
are needed, so they figured that batter -
ies could be a good option. They also 
realised that there is the potential to 
increase their use in the future beyond 
black-start.”
Künstler: We figured out that it was a really difficult task, as it 
would require a lot of changes
Battery energy storage at the BASF plant will provide black-start capability
THE ENERGY INDUSTRY TIMES - NOVEMBER 2022
Special Project Supplement
The SGT-800 has a maximum 
power output of 57 MWplant while it is operating is not un-
heard of, it was the first time that 
Siemens Energy would carry out such 
an operation with this kind of turbine 
and technology.  
Künstler said: “Currently we are working on another project with 
BASF, which will be similar but it’s 
not a gas turbine project. Projects like 
Schwarzheide are becoming more 
frequent. In the future we will have to 
work much more on existing power 
plants and modify them to meet future 
needs.” 
Having successfully handed the gas 
turbine over for commercial opera-
tion earlier this year, Siemens Energy 
believes the brownfield exchange 
could become a blueprint and key 
reference not only for BASF but also 
for other industrial customers looking 
at tackling similar issues.
“What we did at Schwarzheide is 
perfect proof that it’s possible to do it 
like this; and that we can use the tur -
bine in this way,” said Künstler. “The 
project was executed within the 
timeframe and is running as planned. 
It’s also a perfect reference for the 
market – for the chemical industry 
and the power plant industry. There 
are other engines of the same type as 
at Schwarzheide that we can exchange 
successfully.”
As pressure increases to cut emis-
sions, Siemens Energy anticipates 
there are plenty of opportunities for 
the SGT-800 at industrial sites. 
The SGT-800 operates on natural 
gas with low emissions. The NO x 
emission levels will be 15 ppm for the 
gas turbine while operating in the 
range of 60-100 per cent load. This 
will see nitrogen oxides from the 
plant reduce by 50 per cent. 
Most, notably, however, in line with 
BASF’s drive to cut carbon emis-
sions, the new installation will sub-
stantially reduce CO 2. At the operating 
load at Schwarzheide, power plant 
efficiency is 4 per cent higher, thus 
reducing CO 2 by 16 per cent.
And as gas turbine operators look to 
zero CO 2, Siemens Energy is already 
looking ahead with a programme to 
allow its units to run on hydrogen. 
The company has been working on adapting its gas turbines to run on 
hydrogen for a number of years now, 
and has released a hydrogen blending 
capability with natural gas in DLE 
(dry low emissions) mode between 30 
and 75 per cent by volume, depending 
on the gas turbine model. The com-
pany has set out a roadmap for 
achieving a 100 per cent hydrogen 
capability in DLE mode by 2030 at 
the latest. 
This could be a consideration for 
BASF in the future as it moves to-
wards its net zero goal.
“Although it’s currently not fore-
seen that the turbine will run on hy-
drogen due to still outstanding avail-
ability, we are investing in the 
technology already so that we are 
prepared for the future,” said Kün-
stler. “But of course BASF were inter -
ested in what hydrogen capabilities 
we have, and it was investigated as an 
option for future use.”
DeKeyser added: “We are very 
pleased. For this kind of project, you 
really need a partner that is capable to 
keep coming up with their own ideas 
and keep re-thinking things.” 
Summing up the project, Künstler 
said: “The collaboration with BASF 
Schwarzheide was really excellent; it 
was always a real partnership. The 
project was challenging but working at 
an experienced level with the customer 
was really beneficial – the profession-
alism we had in exchanging informa-
tion. It’s always a pleasure when 
technical discussions could be held on 
a high level due to the knowledge of all 
related engineers. BASF’s Center of 
Expertise departments are a perfect 
example – their engineers understand 
the discussions at a high level.
“There was always open communi-
cation even during the challenges, 
which you get with projects of this 
size. We always found a good solu-
tion; there was always great teamwork 
and team spirit throughout the execu-
tion period.”
The SGT-800 package is at the heart of the modernised plant
Batteries are certainly more versa-
tile. Wherein a diesel genset is “bound 
capital” in terms of fuel, the electric-
ity from a battery storage system can 
also be used to generate revenue. The 
battery could in future be used along-
side the gas turbine to cover load 
variations, provide fast frequency 
control, and potentially gain revenues 
from participating in the ancillary 
service markets. 
With the SIESTART system, the gas 
turbine would operate at a specific, 
optimised output level, i.e. in load 
following mode. When the required 
level of plant output is below the 
output of the gas turbine, the extra 
output could be used to charge the 
batteries. When the required level of 
plant output is above the output of the 
gas turbine, the batteries would pro-
vide the additional output required. 
This improves the overall efficiency 
of the power plant and therefore low-
ers emissions, while improving oper -
ational flexibility.
“When thinking about using it in 
future for ramp-up for load changes, 
it might get interesting but it depends 
on the operating value: how often you 
will need it; how big is the battery 
capacity, etc.,” said Künstler. “Of 
course the battery [at the site] is too 
small for this at the moment. But if a 
battery is already installed and con-
nected to the grid, it’s easier to enlarge 
the system to provide more capacity 
for this type of operation. So it offers 
flexibility for the future.”
 Although modernising a power 
Siemens Energy is already looking ahead with a programme to allow its units to  
run on hydrogen 
SCC-800: Performance data for 1x1 combined 
cycle power plant
    62 MW rating 57 MW rat ing
Gross plant output (MWe) 89  81.5
Gross plant efficiency (%) 95.6  58.5
Gross plant heat rate (kJ/kWh) 6040  6154
Number of gas turbines  1  1
LET’S MAKE TOMORROW DIFFERENT TODAYTransforming the entire energy system requires
all of us to change how we do business, invest,
govern, consume, and even live.we can’t do it aloneHonestly,
siemens-energy.comSiemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Anzeige_Honestly_ENG_290x380mm_220921.indd   1Anzeige_Honestly_ENG_290x380mm_220921.indd   1 21.09.22   10:3221.09.22   10:32