 
Press   
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  Munich , June 10, 2020  
 
Siemens  HVDC  power bridge will connect 
Crete with mainland Greece  
 
• Attica -Crete i nterconnect ion will ensure  a more  secur e power supply and 
increase integration of renewable energy   
• HVDC project will reduce half a million tons of CO 2 emissions  in first year of 
operation  
• Total order volume for Siemens -led consortium €370 million  
 
A consortium led by Siemens Gas and Power (Siemens Energy) has been awarded 
a turnkey  contract for two converter stations for the  Greek  high-voltage direct -
current (HVDC) lin k that will connect Crete , Greece’s largest and most populous 
island, with the mainland of Greece . The project  will enable an exchange of 
electricity of up to 1,000 megawatts (MW) to enhance  reliability of the power s upply 
and facilitate integration of renewable energy sources in the power grid. Customer is 
Ariadne Interconnection  S.P.S.A. , a wholly owned entity of  the Greek  independent 
power transmission operator IPTO. Commissioning of the interconnector is 
scheduled for  mid-2023 . Total order volume for the consortium is €370 million.  
 
Siemens will cooperate in a consortium with one of the leading construction 
compan ies in Greece,  TERNA S.A. (Member of GEK  TERNA Group).  The EPC 
(Engineering, Procurement and Construction)  turnkey  contract  comprises  of design, 
supply and installation of  a 1,000  MW converter system at a direct -current voltage of 
± 500 kilovolts , a gas -insulated switchgear (GIS) substation on Crete including 10 -
year service contra cts for the GIS and Control and Protection systems of both the 
HVDC stations.  The two converter stations – one located in the Attica region near 
Athen s and the other near Damasta in the north of Crete – will be linked by a 330 -
kilometer -long direct -current  (DC)  power cable. Terna will be responsible for the HV 
distribution systems, the entire civil works and the erection of all equipment of the 
HVDC project.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
 Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
  
  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  Press Release  
 
 Page 2/3  
Currently, Crete’s energy supply mainly relies on outdated  fossil -fueled power 
plants, that will be  shut down by the end of 2022. The interconnector will facilitate 
the transmission of energy from renewable resources generated on the Greek 
mainland to the island.  Thus , the interconnector will reduce carbon emissions by 
500,000 tons in its first full year of operation.   
 
“The Attica -Crete  interconnector is a nother  example of the added -value that 
Siemens Energy  can offer customers to advance the global energy transition. I’m 
very proud that o ur proven  state -of-the-art HVDC technology will enable an 
increased integration of renewable energy, reduce reliance on fossil fuel , and 
enhanc e grid security," said Beatrix Natter , CEO of the Transmission Division at 
Siemens Energy . 
 
Both converter stations will use HVDC Plus voltage -sourced converters in a modular 
multilevel converter arrangement (VSC -MMC) that convert s alternating current (AC) 
to direct current and DC back to AC on the other side of the link. The system 
combines the advantages of HVDC transmission with  benefi ts like AC voltage 
control, black -start capability, minimized power transmission losses, g rid 
stabilization and high availability.  
 
 
 
 

Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  Press Release  
 
 Page 3/3 This press release and further material is available at  
www.sie.ag/3hbNcmY  
For further information on Siemens Gas and Power , please see  
www.siemens.com/energy  
For further information on HVDC , please see  
www.siemens.com/hvdc  
 
Contact for journ alists  
Christina Huemmer  
Phone:  +49 9131 17 -45722 ; E-mail:  christina.huemmer@siemens.com  
 
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
 
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens group, which has been 
working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands of  industry and society for more than 150 years. 
With planned stock listing, Siemens’ energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future.  
It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a comprehensive portfolio for utilities, 
independent power producers, transmission system operators, the oil and gas industry, and other energy -intensive 
industries. With its products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, 
processin g, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central and distributed thermal 
power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the energy transformation, including storage and sector -
coupling solutions. The majority stake  in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future -oriented 
portfolio. With its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, Siemens Energy 
will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers on  their path to a more sustainable future. 
With around 90,000 employees worldwide, Siemens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and 
tomorrow.  www.siemens.com . 