siemens-energy.com
Integrally geared  
compressors (IGCs) for  
CO2 compression in CCUS  
applications
White Paper | January 2024
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy
Table of contents
Lukas Biyikli
The Role of Compression in the CCUS Value ChainSiemens Energy’s Integrally Geared CompressorsConclusionReferencesPage 3Page 5Page 8Page 14Page 15White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 2
White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 3Is the R&D Portfolio Manager for Integrally Geared 
Compressors, CCUS and Heat Pumps, within the Siemens Energy compression business since January 2023. Prior to that he was in Business Development and Sales for emerging compression technologies and applications, such as hydrogen, clean fuels, heat pumps, steam compression and CCUS. In this role, he developed several new approaches for how to integrate turbo and reciprocating compressors into process applications to enhance overall plant efficiency, such as coupling a CO
2 compressor with the LP steam provision for amine 
based carbon capture systems. Prior to that he was working in Project Execution for turbocompressors mainly for olefine applications and in manufacturing in cutting machine operation, such as turning, milling and drilling at conventional and (C)NC machines.  He holds a Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering from Hochschule Ruhr West University of Applied Sciences.Lukas Biyikli
As the world contends with the urgent need to address climate 
change, its energy landscape is undergoing a significant 
transformation. The shift towards renewable energy sources is 
accelerating. However, there are many areas of industry where electrification is not yet viable. Hard-to-abate sectors like steel 
and cement production, for example, which together account 
for nearly 15% of global CO
2 emissions1,2, rely on production 
processes that are inherently carbon-intensive. Carbon capture, 
utilization, and storage (CCUS) currently represents the best 
path forward for decarbonization of these industries. 
CCUS is also seen as a key lever for decarbonizing power 
generation. By 2050, global energy consumption is projected 
to increase by nearly 50% above its current level. While growth in renewables like solar and wind will be critical to sustainably 
meeting this demand, hydrocarbons will remain an important 
part of the energy mix over the near- to mid-term. Together with alternative fuels like hydrogen, CCUS will be needed to 
achieve meaningful emissions reductions from fossil-fired 
assets.
Despite the growing momentum for CCUS projects in the 
early development stages still face headwinds, including high upfront costs, public perception concerns, and the need for infrastructure development. 
In light of these challenges, having the right combination of 
partners, technologies, and incentives is critical to achieving final investment decision (FID).  As CCUS systems tend to be very energy-intensive, equipment selection is critical to 
maximizing efficiency and reducing total cost of ownership. 
Outside of the capture technology itself, compressors are among the most important pieces of equipment due to  their large contribution to system OPEX and CAPEX. 
In this paper, we compare various CO
2 compression 
technologies and highlight the advantages integrally geared 
compressors (IGCs) provide in terms of efficiency, costs, 
flexibility, reliability, and footprint. While growth in renewables like solar 
and wind will be critical to sustainably 
meeting this demand, hydrocarbons  
will remain an important part of the energy mix over the near- to mid-term. 
Together with alternative fuels like hydrogen, CCUS will be needed  
to achieve meaningful emissions 
reductions from fossil-fired assets. White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 4
The Role of Compression in the CCUS Value Chain
The value chain of CCUS projects can be grouped into three 
major parts: 
1) Capture
2) Transportation3) Utilization/Storage
In each part, compressors serve a critical role of increasing  
CO
2 to desired pressures.  
Some novel capture processes, such as cryogenic or hot potassium carbonate sequestration, operate at around 8-10 bar. Compressors are required to boost the flue gas stream at the inlet of the process. Furthermore, for some chemical 
absorption processes, one- or two-stage mechanical vapor 
recompression is applied by flashing the saturated water coming out of the desorber column, but there are also capture technologies that do not require compression for the process at all. However, compressors are always required downstream to make the CO
2 “transport ready”.  
Supercritical transportation in pipelines (i.e., at pressures above 73 bara) represents the most economical method of transporting CO
2 for amounts >1 million tons per annum 
(mtpa) and distances below 1,000 km. The CO2 is typically close 
to atmospheric pressure downstream of the capture unit, which is why a high compression ratio is required (i.e., compressing from ~2 bara after the amine capture unit to a supercritical pipeline pressure between 100 - 200 bar (see Figure 1).  Figure 1. Pressure/Temperature Diagram for CO2In the supercritical phase, CO2 has a higher density, and 
therefore higher transportation capacities can be achieved than in gaseous pipelines. Furthermore, the requirement for insulation to prevent phase changes due to rising ambient temperature is eliminated, as it would be required for liquid 
pipelines. For longer transportation distances and/or smaller 
capacities, however, CO
2 can also be transported as a liquid 
in tankers via railways, trucks or ships. For liquefaction, compressors are needed for the refrigeration cycle. This is typically done using either an external refrigerant like NH3  or the CO
2 itself.
Finally, compression is required for storing or utilizing  the CO
2. Depending on the type of reservoir (aquifers or 
depleted oil and gas reservoirs), compression up to 700 bar pressure may be required. If the CO
2 is utilized -- for example  
for urea or eMethanol production -- synthesis pressures between 60 - 220 bar are common. Depending on the pipeline length, 
booster stations every few hundred kilometers are required due to the pressure losses in the pipe. The conditions of the CO
2 at the booster 
station are highly dependent on the ambient temperature and inlet pressure which is why boosting can be done via centrifugal pumps or by compressors.P (bar)
73.8
5.2
-56.6 +31.0 T (0C)Solid
Liquid
GaseousP1PcSupercritical
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 5White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
Liquefaction Plant
6.5 - 45 bar, -52 - 100C,
up to 70 Mtpa
Pipeline: 48 - 200 bar,10 - 340C, up to 100 Mtpa 200 - 300 bar assCO2, 65 0CEOR: for oil
recovery
Aquifer Storage
Reservoir
E-Fuels/
Methanol 60 - 90 bar
150 - 220 bar
30 - 40 bar
1 - 105 barUrea
Acetic Acid
Other425 bar as
sCO2, 65 0C
700 bar, high denseﬂuid sCO2CO2
CO2 Source
Water
From currently approx. 50MTPA, the amount of CO₂captured will rise to 7.6 GTPAin the IEA’s Net-Zero EmissionScenario intil 2050 meaning an increase of 15,000%
1. Compressor or Pumps are used alternatively, if transport route before was pipeline. For ship transport, only a pump can be applied2. Combined compressor + pump solution possible | 3. Maximum 500 km transport distance by pipeline expectable, for longer distances, liquid transport is more likelySteam Turbine Gas Turbine Single Shaft TCPs Recips Geared TCPs Pumps Electric Motor
Common Scope Elements21
1
1
3
Technology Options for CO2 Compression
Four major technologies are used for CO2 compression: 
1. Single-shaft centrifugal compressors
2.  Integrally geared compressors (i.e., multi-shaft 
centrifugal compressors)
3. Reciprocating compressors
4. Centrifugal pumps
Generally speaking, centrifugal compressors are very well  
suited for CCUS applications, largely due to the high mole 
weight of CO2 (44 g/mol). 
With centrifugals, impellers are used to increase the kinetic 
energy of the gas, which is then converted into static pressure (via deceleration) in the diffusor section. As molecular weight  
of the gas increases, the required impeller tip speed to achieve 
the desired pressure ratio is reduced. For CO
2, this allows 
for high pressure ratios with tip speeds that do not exceed the typical mechanical or aerodynamical limitations of the 
machines. In contrast, hydrogen, which has a mole weight  of 2, requires very high impeller tip speeds for a reasonable 
pressure ratio.  
Centrifugal compressors can either be single-shaft or multi-
shaft (i.e., integrally geared). In single-shaft compressors, all 
impellers are mounted on the same shaft. For CO
2, this can be 
disadvantageous, as it results in a very low flow coefficient for 
the last stages.As seen in the equation below, the flow coefficient (φ) is a 
function of the volumetric flow (V), the outer impeller diameter (D2), and the impeller tip speed (u2). In all compressors, the 
volumetric flow decreases stage by stage, while the impeller 
tip speed and the diameter remain almost constant. Reducing 
the impeller diameter can address this issue, however, it would 
lead to very small heads and pressure ratios in the last stages, 
as impeller tip speed would be reduced. The end result is 
lower efficiency, higher power consumption, and an increased 
number of stages to achieve high total pressure ratios, as is 
often required in CO
2 applications.   
With a maximum of three to four extraction 
(injection) points per casing due to limited 
space for additional nozzles, intercooling 
capabilities are also limited in single-shaft compressors. A notable advantage they 
provide is low outage times (typically from 
a few days up to a week), even for major overhauls, making them well-suited for 
remote applications and areas like offshore.White Paper  
𝜑𝜑=	𝑉𝑉
𝐷𝐷&&∗𝑢𝑢&∗	𝜋𝜋
4 
With a maximum of three to four extraction (injection) points per casing due to limited space for 
additional nozzles, intercooling capabilities are also limited in single- shaft compressors. A 
notable advantage they provide is  low outage times (typically from a few days up to a week), 
even for major overhauls, making them  well-suited for remote applications and areas like 
offshore.  
Integrally geared compressors  (or IGCs)  are multi -shaft centrifugal compressors with up to 
five pinion shafts around a central bull gear with one or two impellers per stage.  
IGCs provide the advantage of  intercooling after each stage, as each impeller sits within its own 
volute casing. This has important implications for CCUS applications, as the high molecular weight of CO2  leads to a comparably high head and pressure rise per stage, which results in a 
commensurate temperature increase and volume reduction per stage versus lighter gases. This 
essentially magnifies the positive effect of intercooling, thereby reducing isentropic power 
requirements.  
 
 
Figure 3. Integrally geared core compressor  
 
Additionally, because each stage can be designed individually, the impeller diameter  can be 
reduced to counteract the shrinking flow coefficient due to the decrease in volume flow . The 
adjustability of the pinion speeds can also counteract the impeller tip speed reduction caused by 
a reduction in impeller diameter. This  ultimately  leads to higher polytropic stage efficiencies 
versus single- shaft compressors and a need for fewer stages. For a typical CO2 application 
where compression is required to bring the gas from atmospheric to pipeline pressure, the 
number of stages can be reduced by as much as 50%. Another advantage of the individual 
stage design is that multiple compression jobs ca n be combined in the same machine. By this, 
for example the CO2 pipeline compression can be combined with the mechanical vapor 
recompression being required for some capture processes, as mentioned previously.  Figure 2. CCUS value chain and compression applications
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 6White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
Integrally geared compressors (or IGCs)  are multi-shaft 
centrifugal compressors with up to five pinion shafts around a 
central bull gear with one or two impellers per stage.  
IGCs provide the advantage of intercooling after each stage, 
as each impeller sits within its own volute casing. This has 
important implications for CCUS applications, as the high 
molecular weight of CO2 leads to a comparably high head 
and pressure rise per stage, which results in a commensurate temperature increase and volume reduction per stage versus lighter gases. This essentially magnifies the positive effect of intercooling, thereby reducing isentropic power requirements.  
Additionally, because each stage can be designed individually, 
the impeller diameter can be reduced to counteract the shrinking flow coefficient due to the decrease in volume flow. 
The adjustability of the pinion speeds can also counteract the 
impeller tip speed reduction caused by a reduction in impeller diameter. This ultimately leads to higher polytropic stage efficiencies versus single-shaft compressors and a need for fewer stages. For a typical CO
2 application where compression 
is required to bring the gas from atmospheric to pipeline pressure, the number of stages can be reduced by as much as 50%. Another advantage of the individual stage design is that multiple compression jobs can be combined in the same 
machine. By this, for example the CO
2 pipeline compression can 
be combined with the mechanical vapor recompression being 
required for some capture processes, as mentioned previously. Moreover, individual casings and piping 
can be designed for the respective stage pressure and gas composition, which saves on costs for the design pressure of the first stages. Material costs for the last stages can also be reduced by switching from stainless steel to carbon steel once the  
CO2 has been dried between 30 - 60 bar.  
Figure 5 below shows a comparison of compressor technologies 
for 1 mtpa application, which equals the CO2 emissions for 
example of a medium-size cement plant, where CO2 is being 
raised from 2 to 150 bara. As seen, the IGC provides the lowest CAPEX and energy consumption. When fully packaged, it also 
offers the smallest footprint, as the intercoolers can be hung 
below the core compressor baseplate. With regards to the 
efficiency advantage of integrally geared compared to single 
sfaft compression, the intercooling capabilities typically account 
for 75% of that advantage and the adjustability of the individual 
stage diameters and speeds for 25%.
Figure 3. Integrally geared core compressorFigure 4. IGC package with interstage cooling 
Figure 5. Comparison of compressor technologies for CO2 serviceIntegrally Geared Single Shaft Reciprocating 
(2x50%)
CAPEX Lowest 10-15% higher 
than integrally 
geared8-10% higher 
than integrally 
geared
Power  
consumption10-11 MW 10-20% higher 
than integrally 
geared5-10% higher 
than integrally 
geared
Dimensions 12.5  m x 10.5  m  
x 6  m20 m x 12,5  m  
x 4  m20 m x 15  m  
x 6  m
Turndown130-40% 30-40% 75-85%
Reliability >99% >99% 95-97%
Installation costs (relative to CAPEX50% 50% 150%
1 All technologies can go close to 100% in turndown when they go into recycle mode
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 7White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
To minimize power consumption further, the IGC can be 
combined with a centrifugal pump (once the CO2 is above the 
critical pressure). This allows for lower re-cooling temperatures --which are often still achievable under ambient conditions and temperatures -- when the compressibility is typically too low and the density too high for a classical compressor stage. 
By utilizing a pump, power requirements can be reduced by as 
much as 10%, offering the lowest possible energy input for CO
2 
pipeline compression applications. The decision to use a pump depends on the temperature of the CO
2, which dictates its 
density and compressibility. 
Finally, reciprocating compressors can be applied for CO2 
compression and provide significant advantages in low-flow 
applications (i.e., <0.2 mtpa of CO2) or where the process 
has high turndown requirements (i.e., for power plants). Reciprocating compressors exhibit turndown capabilities up to 85% (difference between minimum handleable flow and design flow) and can maintain high efficiency over a wide operating 
range, as pistons can be flexibly turned on and off during 
operation. 
In terms of the capacity of single-shaft compressors, at some 
point, the flow coefficient due to the decreasing volume flow becomes unreasonably small. This same effect occurs in integrally geared compressors with the impeller diameter.Siemens Energy’s IGC technology was developed in 1948 in Duisburg, Germany (the first IGC was formally named the VK). Today, we have more than 2,300 units in operation worldwide, with a fleet reliability >99.9%. Apart from Duisburg, Siemens 
Energy has the capability to manufacture IGCs locally in 
Huludao, China and in Naroda, India. Support is provided by  our global packaging and service network across the globe.   
In recent years, we have initiated several research & and 
development (R&D) projects focused on optimizing IGCs for  the CO
2/CCUS market. Some notable design enhancements  
that have come from these efforts are described in detail below. 
Improved sealing mechanism and reduced maintenance
Carbon ring seals are the preferred sealing technology for IGCs 
in CO2 service. Although they exhibit higher leakage rates than 
dry gas seals (but lower than labyrinth seals), carbon ring seals provide the advantage of lower costs and a reduced probability of failure, as they do not break but simply wear. 
The typical leakage rate for a carbon ring seal is ~30 kg/
hour. However, through modifications to the volute casing design, the entire leakage can be recovered and fed back into the compressor or capture process upstream, offering a zero fugitive emissions design. The leakage rate can be detected 
with a flowmeter in the vent line. This provides visibility 
into seal performance, which allows for condition-based maintenance (CBM). CBM can also be applied to the bearing by monitoring the condition of the lube oil (e.g., temperature, presence of particles, etc). 
Generally speaking, leakage for IGCs in CO
2 service is less of 
a concern than for other gases, such as hydrocarbons, 
ammonia, methane, etc. If it is a priority, Siemens Energy 
can employ its dry gas seal technology. With a ~50% lower 
rotating mass than other technologies on the market, 
Siemens Energy’s dry gas seals allow for high-pressure 
stages and rotors with smaller volumes and impellers 
without running into issues with the rotordynamics.These limitations are not relevant for 
reciprocating compressors. Siemens Energy offers CO
2 reciprocating 
compressors that can achieve discharge pressures >850 bar for lubricated service and >100 bar for non-lubricated service.Siemens Energy’s  
Integrally Geared  
Compressors
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 8White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
Additionally, Siemens Energy has adapted the IGC design for 
reduced downtime and improved maintainability. This includes, for example, the capability to inspect and exchange the bearing without the requirement to lift the upper gear casing. A special gear casing design has also been implemented, which 
allows the upper casing to be lifted without demounting the 
upper pinion shaft(s) and volute casings, saving time on gear inspection and exchange. Furthermore, an advantage of the integrally geared compressor setup is that the stages can be serviced and maintained individually, which is for example helpful in case of an impeller, seal or bearing damage at a certain stage.
CO
2 IGC applications typically require a fourth pinion shaft (i.e., 
often seven or eight stages). Traditionally, the fourth pinion 
shaft is located below the center split line and is executed as a stud shaft. In contrast, Siemens Energy’s CO
2 IGCs allow for 
two pinion shafts (up to four stages in the upper split line), for improved maintainability since accessibility is a challenge with stud shafts.  
Through the above measures, along with other advanced capabilities enabled by Remote Diagnostic Service (RDS), Siemens Energy has developed an optimized maintenance concept that can result in 25% less scheduled downtime for IGCs in CO
2 service. 
Figure 6. IGC pinion shaft design
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 9White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 10Package modularization
Siemens Energy has developed a novel IGC package design 
that reduces equipment, transportation, and installation & 
commissioning (I&C) costs. 
The package consists of a single lift compressor module with 
an integrated seal gas system; three cooler modules with 
associated piping; a steel support frame, and the motor. The main cooler module offers the possibility to integrate the unit control panel (UCP) into the package, as well as Siemens 
Energy‘s novel Dynamic Lube Oil Unit. Features of the lube oil 
unit include:
-  V ariable frequency drive (VFD) oil pumps, which eliminate 
the need for an oil accumulator.
-  Elimination of rundo wn tank by connection of third oil 
pump to uninterruptable power system (UPS).
-  F ewer piping and valves, which allows for a smaller oil tank 
by reducing retention time from eight to five minutes
-  Ov erall 25-30% cost reduction compared to classical lube  
oil systemsFigure 7. Baseline CO2 IGC maintenance schedule 0 1
Baseline, Major Overhaul - L3 - approx. 20 days
Extended, Major Overhaul - L3 - approx. 20 daysBaseline, Minor Overhaul - L2 - approx. 16 days
Periodic Inspection - L1
The maintenance schedule can be 
adjusted to align with plant outageplans, typically in alignment withdriver maintenance schedule.IGC aare designed for continuous operation as per API 617. For compressor operatingconditions within OEM specification and satisfactoring compressor performance trenddata with application of the remote monitoring and diagnostics system (RDS), it is possibleto extend the shutdown inspection schedule from 5 years interval to 6 years interval.Extended, Minor Overhaul - L2 - approx. 7 days2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Years
Figure 8. Representation of the Dynamic Lube Oil Unit
Figure 9. Single lift core compressor moduleFigure 10. CO2 IGC modularized packageWith container-sized modules (e.g. single-lift core compressor) 
I&C costs and time as well as transportation costs are both also reduced by as much as 20%, since the modules are easily transportable and can be easily and quickly joined and combined on site for Installation and Commissioning due to 
simple and unified interfaces between the modules.
Overall, CO
2 IGCs have a fairly complex package setup, mainly 
due to the high number of intercoolers, which is why fully 
packaged units are often preferred. Non-packaged units on concrete foundations have reduced lead times for delivery 
of equipment to the site. However, I&C and execution risks 
are typically more pronounced as they are shifted from the 
workshop to the site where potential issues are more severe.  Ultimately, the decision to opt for a fully packaged compressor train on a steel frame or a non-packaged unit on concrete should be made on a case-by-case basis. Depending on 
customer preferences, individual design features from the 
modularized package, such as the single-lift core compressor module or the Dynamic Lube Oil Unit can be installed on non-packaged configurations as well. Siemens Energy has significant experience employing both approaches, as well as 
intermediate concepts where some equipment components are 
on a concrete foundation and others on a steel frame. 
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 11White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
Beyond the core - Increased energy efficiency through 
waste heat recovery  
In addition to the machine and package design, Siemens Energy 
has also adapted the design philosophy of the CO2 compressors 
to enhance overall process efficiency. 
Today, amine-based capture systems are the technology of choice for sequestrating CO
2 out of flue gases. These systems 
have a very high thermal energy demand in the form of low-
pressure (LP) steam for the reboiling process (see Figure 6). 
Heat requirements for a typical amine capture system can be as 
high as 1 MWh per ton of CO2 captured. 
As previously mentioned, IGCs generate a substantial 
amount of heat during operation in CO2 service even more 
than the motor power which is added to the gas during the compression.  This is because CO
2 at low pressure and 
atmospheric temperature has a higher specific enthalpy than CO
2 at supercritical pressure and atmospheric temperature. 
However, in traditional IGC designs, the temperature is not high enough to raise the heat to a “useable” level – for example to produce LP steam for amine systems. Making the heat useable requires 
operating the compressor at elevated 
temperatures (i.e., slightly above the 
level at which the steam needs to be 
provided). In such cases, steam pressures 
up to 25 bara are achievable, which far exceeds the pressure required by today’s 
amine capture systems. 3
2456
1210
1197 8
114
13Stack Gas
Absorber
Cool FG
FG CoolerAmine PumpRich
AmineCool Rich
AmineMEA, 30wt%Lean
Amine
Cooler
Lean
Amine
Lean AmineAmine-Amine
Heat Exchanger
Flue Gas FlowHot Rich
AmineWet CO2Condenser
Dry CO2
To Compressor
H20-MEA
Reflux
Stripper
Steam
Ext.
Return
Reboiler
Figure 11. Schematic of amine-based carbon capture system
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 12White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
STEAMFeed
Water
Figure 12. LP steam generation by CO2 compression heat recoveryUp to 80% of the steam required for 
the amine system can be provided by 
the heat of compression through this 
approach, which reduces the load of  
the alternative heat source. 
For facilities where gas boilers are used for heat duty, 
recovering the heat of compression can result in a significant 
reduction in OPEX and associated CO2 emissions. 
Operating the IGC at an elevated temperature does result in a marginal increase in the power requirement for the 
compressor. However, the delta in power between a 
configuration with and without heat recovery is only between 1/4 and 1/6 of the heat that can be provided to the amine 
system, resulting in a Coefficient of Performance (COP) between 4 – 6.
Heat recovery from the compressor is not limited to steam 
production of amine systems, although the synergies are evident, given the requirement for LP steam. Alternatively, the 
heat could be used for the process upstream of the capture unit 
or for district heating.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 13White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
Bringing down development costs and expanding the range of 
viable business cases for CCUS in the coming years will require extensive investment and co-creation across the value chain, with governments and regulating bodies playing a critical role. Project stakeholders can benefit by working together from the 
earliest phases to establish a design that is optimized given 
plant boundary conditions so that total cost of ownership can be reduced to the greatest possible extent. Compressor selection plays a crucial role in this regard.
IGCs are well-proven and provide several advantages in terms 
of efficiency, cost, lead time, maintenance, driver flexibility, etc. versus other compressor technologies for CO
2 service. 
With the recent design enhancements outlined in this paper, Siemens Energy has further optimized its IGC offering for CCUS applications across the value chain, including direct air capture (DAC) systems. 
In 2023, we were selected to supply two IGC packages for 
a large-scale DAC plant in the U.S. The plant will feature a motor-driven 13,000 horsepower (hp) fully modular wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven 8,500 hp dry gas compressor. The equipment will compress the captured CO
2 
for additional processing and pressurize the final product into a pipeline for injection into underground reservoirs. The two compressor packages will enable the plant to capture up to 500,000 metric tons of CO
2 per year when fully operational.Conclusion
Siemens Energy’s state-of-the-art Duisburg Mega Test Center 
has the capability to execute all types of compressor tests, 
including simple Mechanical Running Tests, ASME Type 1 and 
Type 2 Tests, ISO 5389 Performance Tests or Full Load Full 
Pressure Tests. ISO 5389 Tests are offering a much simpler setup since the stages can be tested open-loop with air and 
do not require the package and a closed loop being fully built 
up which is resulting in less costs and lead time impact. But in case a customer prefers an ASME test, it is also possible without 
any issues in the Mega Test Center. Many of these tests can be 
executed even if parts of the equipment scope are handled by a third-party packager or at another Siemens Energy location 
(e.g., in Brazil or India).
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 14White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
1  https://www.iea.org/reports/iron-and-steel-technology-
roadmap
2  https://www.iea.org/news/cement-technology-roadmap-
plots-path-to-cutting-CO2-emissions-24-by-2050
3  https://www.iea.org/energy-system/carbon-capture-
utilisation-and-storage
4  https://www.globalccsinstitute.com/news-media/
insights/insight-institute-launched-a-china-ccus-
progress-report/
5   https://c hineseclimatepolicy.oxfordenergy.
org/book-content/domestic-policies/climate-goals/#:~:text=The%20Chinese%20government%20has%20two,%E2%80%9C30%2D60%E2%80%9D%20goals
6  https://www.iea.org/reports/an-energy-sector-roadmap-
to-carbon-neutrality-in-china/executive-summary
7   https://www .shell.com.cn/en_cn/media/
media-releases/2022-media-releases/shell-sinopec-baosteel-and-basf-to-explore-open-source-carbon-capture-utilisation-and-storage-project-in-china.html#:~:text=In%20a%20net%2Dzero%20emissions,in%20the%20next%20four%20decades.
8  https://www.oecd.org/tax/tax-policy/carbon-pricing-
china.pdf
9  https://www.iea.org/reports/ccus-in-clean-energy-
transitions/regional-opportunitiesReferences
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 15White Paper l Integrally Geared Compressors (IGCs) for CO2 Compression in CCUS Applications
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Industrial Applications  
Freyeslebenstraße 1  
91058 Erlangen  Germany
Published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc. Industrial Applications 
Transformation of Industry 
4400 N Alafaya Trail Orlando, FL 32826USA USA
Article No.   
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only 
contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested performance 
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third 
parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.