Energy Transition Readiness Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications July 24, 2023 6 min read Is your region ready for the energy transition? Here’s the answer. Expand renewables Transform conventional power Story Drive industry decarbonization Strengthen electrical grids A new, in-depth study has evaluated the progress on the full transformation of energy systems and found that even the world's energy experts have overestimated how ready their regions are for the transition. So, how ready is your region? Is your region ready? The global report shows it´s time to get real. Get the global report now In 2022, together with our knowledge partner, international management consultancy Roland Berger , we asked nearly 2,000 energy experts and decision makers from across the energy sector in Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East, North America and Latin America to tell us what priorities were being set for the energy transition in their particular region and how much progress had already been made. We then used this data to calculate the “Energy Transition Readiness Index” for each region. The index describes the perceived readiness, on a scale of 0 to 100%, of the energy transition towards net zero in the different regions. Download any of the regional index reports by clicking on the graphic below. The index aggregates the answers of the experts by combining the progress of each priority (“readiness”) with the assessment of its respective importance (“system maturity”), allowing us to arrive at a percentage indicating the region’s perceived readiness for the transition to net zero. The figures show the shocking reality of how little progress the world has made. But it also points to a more systematic approach toward the energy transition with five critical actions. Successfully addressing these priorities globally will result in a significant leap toward net zero emissions. We need to catch up quick We’re all behind on our energy transition targets, and the challenges are becoming ever greater and more urgent. It is time to act now. Find out more about five critical actions we all need to take and the innovations that will accelerate the transition. It is time to act - no excuses Christian Bruch, CEO of Siemens Energy, on 5 critical actions for the energy transition Read the article Modeling net zero Welcome to the Zero Emissions Hydrogen Turbine Center Read the article Haru Oni: Base camp of the future Start of production at the world's first large-scale plant for CO2-neutral fuel Read the article Ireland's great grid stabilizer How a radical new green vision for a coal-fired power plant will bring stability to the grid Read the article Making the Most of Waste Heat Siemens Energy and Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG are testing a high-temperature heat pump in the cooling center at Potsdamer Platz Read the article “ The real impact of the energy transition is really allowing communities to contribute positively. This allows them to have access to energy, the possibility of increasing green jobs and improved livelihoods, and local well-being. Angela Consuelo Ibay Climate Change and Energy Programme of WWF Philippines “ We need to act, and we need to act quickly. H.E. Suhail Al Mazrouei Minister of Energy & Infrastructure United Arab Emirates “ I strongly believe in technology.  I’m sure we will find solutions that still allow for a certain level of comfort, a neutral climate and well­being, but we also need to change everything else about the way we live. Hannah König Head of Procurement, EnBw “ When talking about decarbonization in Latin America, renewable energy is an opportunity, being modernization and expansion of infrastructure a key driver to advance with equitable energy transition and economic development in the region. Solange Ribeiro Deputy CEO, Neoenergia (Brazil) “ If we’re going to get onto a more stable, sustainable path, we need all the constituencies in our society to build a consensus and to bring that to the political system. Ron Brownstein CNN Senior Political Analyst Read more Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition 5 min read Morrow Repower Project, USA: Forward-thinking power generation See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025