TECH CORNER
RECIPROCATING COMPRESSORS
Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a 
given compression ratio in fewer stages than turbo 
compressors. By Timothy Ablondi and Mark BartonCompressors are 
hydrogen ‘colour blind’ 
Hydrogen is poised to play a crucial 
role in the energy transition 
and has emerged as a powerful 
decarbonization agent for many carbon-
intensive sectors, including process 
industry, transportation, mobility, and power 
generation.
Compressors are an essential part of 
the hydrogen value chain and are needed 
to efficiently transport and store hydrogen 
from its point of production to end-use. This 
includes the gathering of emissions-free 
“Green” hydrogen produced by electrolyzers; 
“Grey” hydrogen from steam methane 
or autothermal reformers (SMRs/ATRs); 
or “Blue” hydrogen, which is essentially 
“grey” hydrogen with CO 2 removed from 
the generating source.  Other applications 
include transporting hydrogen via short or 
long-distance pipelines, compressing it to the 
pressure levels required by vehicle fueling 
stations, fuel cells, supplying gas turbines, 
or other downstream and petrochemical 
processes. 
Hydrogen compressors do not “see” 
the hydrogen production method “colour”, 
as every process produces the same low 
molecular (i.e., mole) weight hydrogen gas. 
However, there are several factors that must be considered when selecting a machine 
for a given application. In this article, we will 
discuss a few key variables, including:
■  Gas Composition
■  Water Content
■  Wet vs. Dry Process Gas Flow
■  Suction Pressure
■  Process Gas Temperature
■  Compression Ratio
■  Cylinder Lube-oil Carryover
For end-users, failure to specify these 
values to OEMs submitting bids can result in 
a number of undesirable outcomes, including 
higher costs (in both CAPEX and OPEX) and 
confusion as to which compressor solution is 
best suited for the application. 
Hydrogen Compression Basics
Hydrogen has a mole weight of 2.02 g/mol 
and a density approximately 1/8th that of 
natural gas. This has important implications 
for compression as each compressor 
technology is impacted differently basis the 
low gas mole weight.Reciprocating compressors work on the 
principle of positive displacement; therefore, 
efficiency is not affected by the molecular 
weight of the process gas compressed. This 
is in contrast to centrifugal-type turbo-
compressors, which utilize high-speed 
impeller rotation to increase the kinetic 
energy of the gas which is then converted 
to pressure through the stationary diffuser.  
The gas kinetic energy is a direct function 
of its velocity and mass (molecular weight).  
Since the mole weight of hydrogen is low, the 
velocity of the gas will need to be higher to 
achieve an equivalent pressure compared to 
a heavier mole weight gas.
Increasing the kinetic energy can be done 
two ways: the first is increasing impeller tip 
speed by increasing rotational speed and/or 
expanding the diameter of the impeller. The 
limiting factor here is often the mechanical 
strength limits of the impeller materials. 
The second is by incorporating additional 
compressor stages. 
Currently, state-of-the-art reciprocating 
compressors can achieve a given overall 
compression ratio in fewer stages than 
FIGURE 11 Reciprocating compressors are 
currently the most efficient option for 
compressing hydrogen in most applications.
EDITOR’S NOTE: 
A portion of this article was published 
in the August/September issue of 
COMPRESSORTECH2. Because of the last-
minute cuts in the previous issue, this 
article is republished here in its entirety. >
REPRINTED FROM COMPRESSORTECH2 OCTOBER 2022
TECH CORNER
RECIPROCATING COMPRESSORS
turbo-compressors.  For example, achieving 
a pressure ratio of 4:1 on hydrogen gas 
would typically require only two stages in 
a reciprocating compressor. With a turbo-
compressor, the same application may take 
as many as six stages and would likely come 
at a higher CAPEX as well. 
While turbo-compressors have limitations 
in hydrogen service, progress is being made 
on advancing the technology for improving 
compression ratio capabilities. Research  
and development efforts are currently 
focusing on several areas, including the 
design of the core compressor, bearings, 
materials, seals, train architecture, and 
packaging. 
Ultimately, the choice of compressor 
will be dictated by the unique requirements 
of the process. Turbo-compressors are 
generally a better option for situations 
with moderate to high flows and lower 
compression ratios (i.e., hydrotreating units 
in refineries).  Reciprocating compressors, 
on the other hand, are better suited for 
lower volumes and higher pressures, or 
where a high range and flexibility in part-
load operation is expected. A prime example 
would be downstream of an electrolyzer unit 
in a green hydrogen production plant. 
Design Considerations for 
Reciprocating Compressors
Siemens Energy is a leading provider of 
both reciprocating and turbo-compressors 
to the hydrogen market. With over 2,500 
reciprocating units (more than 2.5 million 
horsepower) installed worldwide in hydrogen 
rich services, the company has extensive 
experience designing these machines for a 
wide range of applications. To ensure optimal 
compressor solutions are obtained, the 
impacts of critical process parameters need 
to be clearly understood. Some of the most 
important are outlined below. 
GAS COMPOSITION - Gas composition 
dictates gas compressibility and gas 
molecular weight. It is possible for different 
gas mix combinations to have the same 
combined molecular weight but different 
compressibility values. This is critical, 
as compressibility will impact power 
consumption of the compressor, which in turn will affect motor selection and lifecycle 
costs of the plant. 
Generally, a lower molecular weight will 
require larger cylinders vs. the equivalent 
mass flow of a higher molecular weight gas. 
Specifying the exact make-up of the gas to 
the compressor OEM (i.e., 100% H 2 vs. 99% 
H2, 1% O 2) will ensure that the correct design 
is selected, and that costs and energy 
consumption are optimized.  
WATER CONTENT & WET VS. DRY FLOW – Water 
content also impacts gas molecular weight 
and compressibility. 100% dry hydrogen 
gas will have a lower molecular weight than 
100% hydrogen gas saturated with water. 
A gas containing water can have its flow 
represented as a “dry flow” where the water 
content is not considered or as a “wet flow” 
which does take water into account. A wet 
gas application will typically require a smaller 
compressor solution if it is sized on the basis 
of wet flow rather than the same value as 
a dry flow. Additional scope and material 
considerations may also be required if water 
is present in the gas.
SUCTION PRESSURE - Reciprocating 
compressors are highly sensitive to suction 
pressure, especially near atmospheric (1 
BarA). This is because positive displacement 
machines need to physically create 
the volume to be compressed. A unit 
compressing gas at 1BarA will require first 
stage cylinders roughly twice the volume of 
the equivalent service compressing the gas 
from 2 BarA. This sensitivity is noticeable even when comparing 1.05 BarA to 1.1 BarA. 
Therefore, it is important to be precise when 
defining the pressure as “atmospheric”.
GAS TEMPERATURE - A higher temperature 
gas will require larger bore cylinders to create 
the same volume as a lower temperature gas 
at the same pressure. Compressing a gas 
with a higher suction temperature will have 
a higher discharge temperature. This can 
result in discharge temperature limits being 
reached sooner, thus additional stages of 
compression may be required.
COMPRESSION RATIO – As mentioned 
previously, achieving higher compression 
ratios requires additional stages of 
compression; and additional stages require 
additional cylinders. Compressor staging 
requirements will also be influenced by 
discharge temperature limits. For hydrogen, 
depending on process gas temperatures, the 
compression ratio per stage would typically 
be around ≈2.
LUBE-OIL CARRYOVER - Lubrication provides 
protective film for wear parts and is critical 
to compressor reliability and availability. To 
improve reliability and availability, non-
lubricated services require a slower piston 
speed. This is met by reducing electric motor 
RPM, or shortening the compressor stroke. 
Reduced piston speed will necessitate 
larger bore cylinders to meet equivalent flow 
capacities. Non-lube applications have lower 
discharge pressure limits and bore diameter 
limitations.
To illustrate how even slight changes 
FIGURE 22 Assumptions between two OEMs submitting bids for the same compressor project.
>
REPRINTED FROM COMPRESSORTECH2 OCTOBER 2022
TECH CORNER
RECIPROCATING COMPRESSORS
REFERENCES:
[1] Strategy and Part of the PWC Network, The dawn of green 
hydrogen in https://www.strategyand.pwc.com/ m1/en/
reports/2020/the-dawn-of-green-hydrogen/ the-dawn-of-green-
hydrogen.pdf 
[2] H2 Compression: An Integral Part of the H Value Chain’, Siemens 
Energy, (2021).in the above parameters will impact 
compressor selection, let us examine a 
hydrogen compression application with 
the following requirements specified by the 
end-user:
■   Application: Green Hydrogen (Electrolysis 
Plant)
■  Suction Pressure: Atmospheric
■  Discharge Pressure: 30bar
■  Hydrogen Production Volume: 420 kg/hr
Now although it seems the provided 
data by the end-user is complete, the data 
is in fact open enough to allow two different 
compressor OEMs submitting bids for the 
project to make their own assumptions about 
several parameters. These assumptions are 
included in Figure 2. 
Based on these assumptions, the 
design and cost difference between the 
compressors specified by the OEMs are 
substantial.For OEM 1, the solution might look like: 
■  3 cylinders
■  3 stages of intercooled compression
■  500 kW motor
■  $2MM CAPEX
Whereas, OEM 2 would have a different 
solution:
■  6 cylinders
■  5 stages of intercooled compression
■  900 kW motor
■  $3MM CAPEX
The OPEX of both solutions is difficult to 
quantify without a more detailed description 
of the site parameters and client operating 
philosophy. However, we can see that the 
discrepancy in total cost of ownership 
(TCO) would be further compounded 
when comparing the two solution’s power 
consumption and different maintenance 
requirements.
The Road Ahead
Through 2050, global production of hydrogen 
is forecast to reach as high as 750 million 
tonnes per annum (mtpa) – a 10-fold increase 
from the 74 mtpa produced in 2018 [1]. 
However, to realize its full potential in the global Energy Transition, the production 
of hydrogen must be decarbonized 
dramatically. This means accelerating the 
build out of both “blue” and “green” hydrogen 
capacity. Today, 95% of all hydrogen is 
still “grey”, with associated emissions of 
around 9-10 tons of CO 2 per ton of hydrogen 
produced [2]. 
Compressors are an enabling technology 
and are needed at virtually every step of 
the hydrogen value chain. Regardless of 
the hydrogen application or the type of 
compressor being used (reciprocating or 
turbo), end-users can benefit by engaging 
early with OEMs to clearly define the 
requirements of the process, as well as any 
potential constraints. Doing so ensures right 
sizing of the compressor and that design 
attributes are selected which will provide the 
lowest TCO over the life of the unit.
With a broad compression portfolio 
and 100+ years of experience in 
hydrogen compression, Siemens Energy 
can remain compressor “neutral”, thus 
ensuring that the optimal equipment solution 
is selected, no matter the colour of the 
hydrogen. CT2
FIGURE 33 Compressors are needed at virtually 
every step of the hydrogen value chain.
If you enjoyed this article, subscribe to the COMPRESSORTECH2 magazine.  
www.compressortech2.com/subscribe