Background
Siemens Energy offers its Remote Diagnostic Service (RDS)
to satisfy the increasing requirements placed on turbo 
compressors by various industries and applications.
We collect the operating parameters of your equipment and 
have them evaluated by our expert engineering team using 
modern, custom-tailored diagnostic methods. Based on the 
results, we offer recommendations and advise you on 
optimizing equipment operation, preventing operational 
disturbances and unplanned outages, and performing 
preventive maintenance.Operation and procedures
To ensure maximum protection from unauthorized access, 
your equipment’s operating data isn’t read out directly from 
the I&C system; instead, it’s made available at a standard-
ized interface (OPC UA server) for access by a data collector.
The Siemens Energy myConnect data collector accesses 
this interface as a client. myConnect satisfies the highest 
international cybersecurity standards, including IEC62443 
and ISO27001. The data collected is saved by myConnect 
and transferred at regular intervals to the Siemens Energy 
database (STA-RMS; see Figure 1).  Remote Diagnostic Service  
for turbo compressors
 
siemens-energy.com
Cu
s
t
omer si
t
e
VPN tunnel
Internet
Remote Service
Platform (cRSP)
Siemens Ene
r
gy
Data collection solution
Control systemCustomer
Internet accessLAN ﬁrewall Industrial PC WAN ﬁrewall
Figure 1: Secure data transfer
Page 1
The data is evaluated by specialist diagnostics engineers 
once a day during business hours. In the event of unusual 
incidents like a compressor trip, data is immediately trans-
mitted to the Siemens Energy database to enable our 
engineering teams to provide fast and expert assistance in 
rectifying any problems. You’ll be notified as quickly as 
possible of relevant or critical observations.  
Our engineering teams consult with and support you to 
prevent or correct problems impacting your operation.  
You receive a periodic summary of all observations in a 
clearly designed report and can access data and insights 
through a secure web portal and mobile application.
Diagnostics
Siemens Energy has developed a number of algorithms that 
optimally evaluate the wide range of turbo compressor 
configurations, from single shaft to integrally geared 
compressors and from centrifugal to axial flow compressors. 
These algorithms are calibrated for each unit by experienced 
engineers using reference data to provide you with precise 
and customized analyses and prognoses. Comparisons with 
calibrated reference data enable any deviation in the oper -
ating performance of your machine to be detected quickly 
and reliably. The comprehensive analysis takes into account 
both the operating reliability and safety of the machine: for 
example economic considerations like performance, effi-
ciency, and more (see Figure 3) as well as vibration, gas 
pressure, and temperature (see Figure 4). Ask for our sample 
reports, or make an appointment for a demonstration and 
consulting on your specific solution. 
myConnect data collector
myConnect meets the highest cybersecurity standards to 
protect your valuable data and equipment from malicious 
cyber attacks. It’s typically supplied in a control cabinet 
separate from the I&C cabinet (see Figure 2).  
With a correctly configured OPC UA server, installation can 
be performed with the system in operation so as not to 
disturb or interrupt your ongoing operating processes. 
We’re happy to provide other installation options on 
request. We also offer a variety of options for encrypted 
data transmission via the common Remote Service Platform 
(cRSP). Ask for our Cybersecurity brochure.
Figure 2: myConnect data collectorFigure 3: Compressor performance monitoring
Figure 4: Detecting compressor deterioration
More information
For more technical information on 
RDS, please scan the QR code.
Sep '18 Oct'18 Nov '18 Dec '18 Jan '19 Feb '19 Mar '19 Apr '19
49,7 k
40 k
30.2 k
20.4 k
10.7 k
925.1Axis I
1.75 2 2.25 2.75 3 3.25 3.5 3.75 4 4.2 4.5200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
Stage1_FlowVoluSuc : Stage1_PolyHeadVolume Flow (m3/sec)Polytropic Head (kJ/kg)
6196 RPM7081 RPM7966 RPM8851 RPM9382RPMDeviation in head compared to  
design increases, plan for overhaulCompressor  
Overhaul
Head  
capacity  
recoveredYour benefits
• Compressor performance monitoring and improvement
• Increasing equipment availability thanks to continuous 
monitoring by experienced engineering teams
• Fewer unplanned outages and better recommendations 
for preventive maintenance
• Access to 24/7 Operational Service Desk (OSD) for  
an immediate response on technical issues
Page 2Remote Diagnostic Service for turbo compressors
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Gas Services  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy Inc.  
Gas Services  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
If you require further information in respect of the above please contact 
your Siemens Energy designated representative.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo 
modification in the course of further development of the products. The 
requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly 
agreed upon in the concluded contract.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Sie-
mens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by 
third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the 
owners.
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 3Remote Diagnostic Service for turbo compressors