Rugged Performer
Designed to API-618 specifications, the 
HHE-VL is available in standard stroke sizes 
from 12 to 16 inches (305 to 406 mm) with 
up to 10 throws.
For long-lasting reliability, the HHE-VL frame 
is engineered to the highest standards. The 
fine-grain, cast iron frame provides 
maximum stability through the use of 
internally ribbed walls and integral cross-
member bearing saddle supports located 
between each crankthrow. The frame’s rigid 
design is further enhanced with precision 
spacer blocks and tie rods at each bearing 
point. This greatly reduces distortion caused 
by gas and inertia forces. To ensure precise 
bearing alignment, the bearing saddles are 
bored in a single set-up.Optimized Design, Precision-Built
Every HHE-VL is built with optimized crank 
angles and a minimum number of crank 
throws, resulting in minimal unbalanced 
forces and moments on the foundation. 
Available with up to 10 throws, the design 
flexibility does not limit the HHE to an even 
number of crank throws. The result of this 
variable crank angle design is a compressor 
that requires minimum foundation size and 
expense, reduced drive-train torsional 
stresses, and reduced motor current 
pulsation and power costs. The crankshaft is 
forged from high tensile strength alloy steel 
that is fully stress-relieved and heat-treated. 
All journals and crankpins are precision-
ground and polished to exacting tolerances.Our first HHE-class compressor  
was installed more than  
50 years ago. Continuous 
advancements in technology have 
allowed us to enhance the HHE’s 
reputation as a highly reliable, 
heavy-duty process compressor. 
With more than 3,000 units serving 
in applications around the world, 
the HHE process compressor has 
proven to be an outstanding 
choice for a variety of 
applications.
Dresser-Rand HHE-VL
Reciprocating Process Compressor
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressors
Rugged, precision-machined tri-metal 
main and crankpin bearings are 
generously sized for long-lasting service. 
Bearings are provided on both sides of 
each crankthrow and doubled on the 
drive end. All bearings are forced-
lubricated per API-618 specifications. 
Connecting rods are die-forged steel 
with rifle-drilled passages for positive 
lubrication of the crosshead pin  
and bearings.
The flanged crosshead is designed for 
error-free assembly, ensuring maximum 
reliability through the hydraulic pre-
stressing of the critical piston-to-
crosshead bolting. Hydraulic tensioning 
reduces labor and maintenance 
downtime while increasing safety and 
reliability. The crosshead flange is firmly 
secured to the piston rod by a 
hydraulically tensioned nut and the 
flange is then attached to the crosshead 
using six hydraulically tensioned studs. 
The design employs an adjusting ring  
on the nose of the crosshead to facilitate 
adjustment of piston rod runout without 
having to re-shim the crosshead shoes.  
A spacer provides simple, one-time 
adjustment of piston-to-cylinder end 
clearance. The hydraulics are located in 
the tensioning tool instead of the piston 
nut where an O-ring failure might 
otherwise necessitate torching through 
the rod to disassemble the joint. An 
air-motor driven hydraulic pump, 
tensioning devices, and piston rod 
alignment tools are provided.
All frame and distance piece inspection 
and service openings are extra large to 
permit easy access. Bolting for frame-to-
frame extension, frame extension-to-
distance piece, and distance piece-to-
cylinder is external, making tensioning 
easy and accurate.
Outstanding Cylinder  
Design and Selection
Each cylinder is designed with the 
capability of loading the frames 
maximum allowable continuous rod 
load. All cylinder bolting, piston nut,  
and valve differential pressures meet this design criteria. This will permit 
future flexibility if process conditions 
change or the compressor is reapplied 
for another application.
With experience in virtually every  
type of service, our cylinders provide 
outstanding service and reliability. 
Our engineering expertise will ensure 
that each cylinder built for your 
application will provide maximum 
performance and reliability with 
minimum maintenance cost. Cylinder materials include nodular iron, cast 
steel, fabricated carbon or stainless 
steel, and forged steel. Most cylinders 
are available for either lubricated or 
non-lubricated service.
Dimensions
Dimensions provided are typical, basis 
API Type B distance pieces. For API Types 
C & D distance pieces, add 34 inches  
(86 cm) to the width dimension and  
17 inches (43 cm) to the rod removal 
distance.ROD  
REMOVAL  
DISTANCE
96in. 
(244 cm)345 in. 
(876 cm)54in. 
(137 cm)L
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL  32826  
USA
 
 
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Specifications
Maximum HP 22,500 (16,778 kW)
Standard strokes 12 to 16 inch (305 to 406 mm)
Number of throws Up to 10
Cylinder bore range 7 to 48.5 inch (178 to 1,232 mm) max bore
HHE-VL Typical Length (L) Dimension
Throws  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Inches 86 117 148 179 210 241 272 303 334 365
Centimeters 218 297 376 455 533 612 691 770 848 927