Rugged Performer
The BDC-12H offers a sizeable solution to 
many process requirements. Designed to 
API-618 specifications, the BDC-12H is 
available in standard stroke sizes of 8.5 to  
12 inches (216 to 305 mm) with two, four,  
or six throws.The BDC reciprocating process 
compressor has earned a 
reputation for long-lasting 
performance. During the  
past 70 years, advancements in 
design and material 
technologies have allowed 
continuous improvement  
to the BDC’s design and 
manufacture. With more than 
1,200 units shipped worldwide, 
the BDC process compressor  
is an excellent choice for a 
variety of process gas 
applications.
Dresser-Rand BDC-12H
Reciprocating Process Compressor
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressorsFor long-lasting reliability, the BDC-12H 
frame is engineered to our highest 
standards. The fine-grain, cast iron frame 
provides maximum stability through the use 
of heavily ribbed walls and bearing saddles. 
The frame’s rigid design is further enhanced 
with precision spacer blocks and tie rods 
above each bearing saddle. This greatly 
reduces distortion caused by gas and  
inertia forces. To ensure precise bearing 
alignment, the bearing saddles are bored in 
a single set-up.
Designed and Built with Precision
Every BDC is built with a fixed crank 
design, which reduces couples. The 
balanced-opposed design provides for as 
many as six cylinders, requiring a 
relatively small foundation. The 
crankshaft is forged from high tensile 
strength steel alloy, which is fully stress-
relieved and heat-treated. All journals 
and crankpins are precision ground and 
polished to exacting tolerances.
Rugged, precision-machined aluminum 
main bearings and steel-backed 
aluminum crankpin bearings are 
generously sized and micro-babbit 
coated for best run-in and long-lasting 
service. Bearings are located on both 
sides of each pair of crankthrows. All 
bearings are forced-lubricated to API-618 
specifications. Connecting rods are 
die-forged steel with rifle-drilled 
passages for positive lubrication of the 
crosshead pin and bearings.
The standard crossheads are nodular 
iron, equipped with adjustable 
aluminum shoes at both the top and 
bottom. Cast steel crossheads are also 
available.
All frame and distance piece inspection 
and service openings are large enough 
to permit easy access. The frame-to-
frame extension, frame-extension-to-
distance piece, and distance-piece-to-
cylinder bolting are external, making 
bolt tensioning easy and accurate.
Outstanding Cylinder  
Design and Selection
Each cylinder is designed with the 
capability of loading to the frame’s 
maximum allowable continuous rod 
load. All cylinder bolting, piston nut,  
and valve differential pressures meet 
these design criteria. This permits future 
flexibility if process conditions change  
or the compressor is reapplied for 
another application.Our engineering expertise ensures that 
each cylinder built for your application 
will provide maximum performance and 
reliability with minimum maintenance 
cost. Cylinder materials include cast 
iron, nodular iron, cast steel, fabricated 
carbon steel, stainless steel, and forged 
steel. Most cylinders are available for 
either lubricated or non-lubricated 
service.Dimensions
Dimensions provided are typical, basis 
API Type B distance pieces. For API Type 
C & D distance pieces add 34 inches  
(86 cm) to the width dimension and  
17 inches (43 cm) to the rod removal 
distance.ROD  
REMOVAL  
DISTANCE
80in. 
(203 cm)270 in. 
(686 cm)57in. 
(144 cm)L
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL  32826  
USA
 
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Specifications
Maximum HP 8,225 (6,133 kW)
Standard strokes 8.5 to 12 inch (216 to 305 mm)
Number of throws 2, 4, or 6
Cylinder bore range 5 to 38.5 inch (127 to 902 mm)
BDC-12H Typical Length (L) Dimension
Throws  2 4 6
Inches 77 132 187
Centimeters 196 335 475