Rugged Performer
Designed to API-618 specifications, the 
HHE-FB is available in standard stroke sizes 
of 8.5, 10, 11, or 12 inches (216, 254, 279,  
or 305 mm) and in both two and four crank-
throw configurations.
For long-lasting reliability, the HHE-FB  
frame is engineered to the highest 
standards. The fine-grain, cast iron frame 
provides maximum stability through the  
use of internally ribbed walls and integral 
cross-member bearing saddle supports. The 
frame’s rigid design is further enhanced 
with precision spacer blocks and tie rods  
at each bearing point. This greatly reduces 
unwanted distortion that may be caused by 
horizontal gas and inertia forces. To ensure 
precise bearing alignment, the bearing 
saddles are bored in a single set-up.Optimized Design, Precision-Built
Every HHE-FB is built 
with a fixed-crank design 
which reduces couples. 
Available with either two 
or four throws, the 
HHE-FB frame is 
designed with integral 
frame extension/ crosshead guides. The 
result of this design is a compressor that 
requires minimum foundation size and 
expense, reduced drive-train torsional 
stresses, and reduced motor current 
pulsation and power costs. The crankshaft is 
forged from high tensile strength alloy steel 
that is fully stress-relieved and heat-treated. 
All journals and crankpins are precision-
ground and polished to exacting tolerances.Our first HHE-class compressor  
was installed more than  
50 years ago. Continuous 
advancements in technology 
have allowed us to enhance 
the HHE’s reputation as a 
highly reliable, heavy-duty 
process compressor. With 
more than 3,000 units serving 
in applications around the 
world, the HHE process 
compressor has proven to  
be an outstanding choice for  
a variety of applications.
Dresser-Rand HHE-FB
Reciprocating Process Compressor
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressors
Rugged, precision-machined aluminum 
main and crankpin bearings are 
generously sized for long-lasting service. 
Bearings are provided on both sides of 
each pair of crankthrows. All bearings 
are forced-lubricated per API-618 
specifications. Connecting rods are 
die-forged steel with rifle-drilled 
passages for positive lubrication of the 
crosshead pin and bearings. 
The nodular iron crosshead is equipped 
with adjustable top and bottom 
aluminum shoes. To reduce unbalanced 
primary forces, balance weights can be 
added. The crosshead utilizes a multi-
bolt torque nut to properly tension the 
piston rod to the crosshead. This permits 
tightening without the need for large 
slug wrenches. All frame and distance 
piece inspection and service openings 
are large enough to permit easy access.
Outstanding Cylinder  
Design and Selection
With experience in virtually every type 
of service, Dresser-Rand business 
cylinders provide outstanding service 
and reliability. Our engineering expertise 
will ensure that each cylinder built for 
your application will provide maximum 
performance and reliability with 
minimum maintenance cost. Cylinder 
materials include nodular iron, cast iron, 
cast steel, fabricated carbon or stainless 
steel, and forged steel. Most cylinders 
are available for either lubricated or 
non-lubricated service.
Dimensions
Dimensions provided are typical, and  
are basis API Type B distance pieces.  
For API Types C & D distance pieces,  
add 24 inches (61 cm) to the width 
dimension and 12 inches (30.5 cm)  
to the rod removal distance.ROD  
REMOVAL  
DISTANCE
74in. 
(188 cm)228 in. 
(579 cm)36in. 
(91cm)L
Published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry 
4400 N Alafaya Trail 
Orlando, FL  32826 
USA
 
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry 
Siemenspromenade 9 
91058 Erlangen 
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Specifications
Maximum HP 2,250 (1,678kW)
Standard strokes 8.5, 10, 11, or 12 inch (216, 254, 279, or 305mm)
Number of throws 2 or 4
Cylinder bore range 3.5 to 28.0 inch (89 to 711mm)
HHE-FB Typical Length (L) Dimension
2 Throw Units: 60 (152)
4 Throw Units: 101 (257)