A Reliable Performer
The HSE is a horizontal, balance-opposed, 
reciprocating compressor designed for 
long-term process gas service. Designed to 
API-618 specifications, the HSE is available 
in either a 9- or 11-inch. With the ability to 
handle a variety of drivers with either direct 
or V-belt connections, the HSE can be fitted 
with either lubricated or non-lubricated 
cylinders from 2.125 to 28 inches (54 to  
711 mm) in bore diameter.The Dresser-Rand HSE 
reciprocating process 
compressor provides a reliable 
solution where full-time, 
medium-volume service is  
a requirement. Its proven 
performance, balanced design, 
and wide range of cylinder 
selections make the HSE an 
excellent choice for long-term 
process gas service.
Dresser-Rand HSE
Reciprocating Process Compressor
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressors
Much like all our reciprocating process 
compressors, the HSE is engineered to 
our highest standards, ensuring long-
lasting reliability. Sized to provide a 
reliable solution where requirements 
demand full-time performance in 
medium volume service, the HSE offers 
an alternative to larger, more costly 
compressors or shorter stroke, high-
speed compressors.
Designed and Built with Precision
With its fine-grain, cast iron frame, the  
HSE is engineered to provide maximum 
support for the running gear and related 
components. The rigid frame design 
minimizes vibration and provides for  
low moments and minimal foundation 
requirements. Forged from high tensile 
strength steel alloy, the crankshaft is 
fully stress-relieved and heat-treated. 
The bearing journals and crankpin are 
ground with precision and polished to 
meet exacting tolerances.
Rugged, precision-machined aluminum 
main and crankpin bearings are 
generously sized for best run-in and 
long-lasting service. All bearings are 
force-lubricated to API-618 
specifications. Connecting rods are 
die-forged steel with rifle-drilled 
passages for positive lubrication of the 
crosshead pin and bushing. The standard 
crossheads are nodular iron, equipped 
with adjustable aluminum shoes at both 
the top and bottom. Cast steel 
crossheads are also available.
Outstanding Cylinder  
Design and Selection
With experience in a variety of services, 
our cylinders provide outstanding 
reliability. Our engineering expertise ROD  
REMOVAL  
DISTANCE
60in. 
(152 cm)216 in. 
(549 cm)30in. 
(76cm)L
ensures that each cylinder provides 
maximum performance and reliability 
with minimum maintenance cost. 
Cylinder materials include cast iron, 
nodular iron, cast steel, fabricated 
carbon steel, fabricated stainless steel, 
and forged steel. Most cylinders are 
available for either lubricated or non-
lubricated service.Dimensions
Dimensions provided are typical, and  
are basis API Type B distance pieces. For 
API Types C & D distance pieces, add 20 
inches (51 cm) to the width dimension, 
and 10 inches (25 cm) to the rod 
removal distance.
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL  32826  
USA
 
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Specifications
Maximum HP 786 (586 kW)
Standard strokes 9 to 11 inch (229 or 279 mm)
Number of throws 2 or 4
Cylinder bore range 2.125 to 28 inch (54 to 711 mm)
HSE - Typical Length (L) Dimension
2-Throw Units: 48 inch (122 cm)
4-Throw Units: 90 inch (229 cm)