Versatility and Performance
Our 7-inch (178 mm) stroke ESH singlethrow, 
reciprocating compressor is designed for 
long-term, process gas service. Built in 
accordance with API-618 specifications.Whether direct-connected or belt-driven,  
the ESH can handle a variety of drivers up to 
70 hp (52 kW) and can be fitted with either 
lubricated or non-lubricated cylinders from 
1.625 to 19 inches (41 to 483 mm) in bore 
diameter. The ESH is also available in a 
vertical arrangement that greatly reduces 
the foundation size and area. In its vertical 
configuration, the “ESV” provides significant 
advantage where space may be limited.The ESH reciprocating process 
compressor provides an economical 
solution where limited space and 
continuous, low-volume service is a 
requirement. Its proven 
performance, versatile design, 
and wide range of cylinder 
selections make the ESH an 
obvious choice for a variety  
of applications.
Dresser-Rand 7-ESH
Reciprocating Process Compressor
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressors

Designed and Built with Precision
With its fine-grain, cast iron frame, the 
ESH is engineered to provide the 
required support for the running gear 
and related components. The rigid frame 
design and counterweighted crankshaft 
minimize vibration and provide for low 
moments and minimal foundation 
requirements. Forged from high tensile 
strength alloy steel, the crankshaft is 
fully stress relieved and heat-treated. 
The bearing journals and crankpin are 
ground with precision and polished to 
meet exacting tolerances.
Rugged, precision-machined aluminum 
main and crankpin bearings are 
generously sized for best run-in and 
long-lasting service. All bearings are 
force-lubricated per API-618 
specifications. Connecting rods are 
die-forged steel with rifle-drilled 
passages for positive lubrication of the 
crosshead pin and bushing. A shoeless 
aluminum crosshead is standard and 
requires no adjustment.
Outstanding Cylinder  
Design and Selection
With experience in virtually every type 
of service, our cylinders provide 
outstanding service and reliability. Our 
engineering expertise ensures that each 
cylinder provides maximum performance 
and reliability with minimum 
maintenance cost. Cylinder materials 
include cast iron, nodular iron, cast 
steel, fabricated carbon or stainless 
steel, and forged steel. Most cylinders 
are available for either lubricated or non-
lubricated service.ROD  
REMOVAL  
DISTANCE
40in. 
(125 cm)90in. 
(229 cm)24in. 
(61cm)
Note: For the ESV, the height becomes 90 inches (229cm) and the width becomes 23 inches (59cm).  32in. 
(81cm)
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL  32826  
USA
 
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Experience That Counts
The ESH compressor is world renowned 
for its dependable service and steadfast 
reliability in a wide variety of process 
applications. With more than 1,300 units 
shipped for use in various applications 
around the world, the ESH process 
compressor is an excellent choice where 
low volume requirements demand 
reliable operation.Dimensions
Dimensions provided are typical, and are 
basis API Type B distance pieces. For 
API Types C & D distance pieces, add 
13.75 inches (35 cm) to both the width 
dimension, and the rod removal distance.Specifications
Maximum HP 70 (52 kW)
Standard strokes 7 inch (178 mm)
Number of throws 1
Cylinder bore range 1.625 to 19 inches (41 to 483 mm)
7-ESH Typical Dimension - Inches (Centimeters)
Model R W H L
ESH 40 (125) 90 (229) 24 (61) 32 (81)
ESV 40 (125) 23 (59) 90 (229) 32 (81)