 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG   Gas Field Policy, GFP 18 
Februar y, 2021 
 
Gas Field Policy 18:  Sour Gas Service 
 
GENERAL: 
 
Hydrogen Sulfide H 2S is a colorless gas which is harmful at concent rations of 20 ppm in air. At concentrations of 
800 ppm death results within 30 minutes due to destruction of lung tissues. At low concentrations (1 to 20 ppm), 
it has a strong rotten egg odor and is harmless. However,  at higher concentrations, the sense of smell is 
anesthetized and the gas is odorless. It is heavier than air (mole. wt. 34) and so tends to accumulate in low 
places. Due to the hazardous nature of this gas, compressors handling H 2S should not be approached unless 
H2S leak detection equipment is functioning. 
 Effects on metals: H
2S tends to cause sulfide stress cracking in st eels when all of the following four conditions 
exists: 
 A.  The H
2S concentration and pressure condition fall into the "sulfide stress cracking region: of NACE MR-
0175 (figure 1). 
 B. The steel component has a hardness over 22 Rockwell "C". 
 
C. The steel component is stressed.  
D. Moisture is present in the gas. 
 Sulfide stress cracking is more aggressive if chlorides are also present in the gas. 
 
To prevent sulfide stress cracking of components that lie within the NACE definit ion of sour gas service, 
materials of less than 22 HRC must be used. Alternatively,  materials with a greater resistance to attack may be 
used (e.g. Age Hardened 17-4 PH stainless steel piston rods). 
 
 
MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION:  
A. If the concentration of H
2S, at the discharge pressure of any stag e, falls into the "B" range (figure 1), 
Siemens Energy recommends its standard materials of construction. 
 
B. If the concentration of H 2S, at the discharge pressure of any stag e, falls into the "A" range (figure 1), 
Siemens Energy requires the following construction for maximum resistance to sulfide stress cracking and containment of the gas. 
 
1) Distance pieces: Distance pieces must be arranged so that potentially harmful leakage of H
2S to 
the atmosphere cannot occur. Possible alternatives are: 
 
A) For all applications Siemens Energy recommends the use of a single compartment 
distance piece equipped with purged packing case, purged  wiper case and slinger if 
desired (figure 2). The distance piece and pa cking vents should be piped to a flare or 
recovery system. In some cases an extra long distance piece may be required. 
 
B) Standard single-compartment distance pieces may be used with caution if a sweet gas 
packing purge and vacuum scavenge pump is us ed to maintain the distance piece at 
negative pressure and gas leakage is eliminated. Piston rod oil slingers are 
recommended to minimize frame oil contamination. 
 
C) Two compartment distance pieces are ava ilable if preferred. Please consult with the 
Siemens Energy HSRC Group for further details. 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG   Gas Field Policy, GFP 18 
Februar y, 2021 
 
2) Bolting: 
 
A) Bolting that is in the cylinder end distance  piece is outside the NACE definition of sour 
gas service (less than 65 PSIG). Theref ore, Siemens Energy will use standard 
materials for the distance piece studs, nuts and bolts. 
 
B) Bolting that is external of the cylinde r uses standard materials; e.g. outer head-to-
cylinder studs which are located outside the head gasket; pulsation bottle-to-cylinder bolting; etc. 
 
C) ASTM A193, Grade B7M is used on certai n cylinder designs where the head bolting is 
in the process gas passageway; e.g., Clamshell head designs. 
 
3) Standard piston with rider bands or combination rings 
 
4)  Piston rods shall be ann ealed 4142 carbon steel (18-22 HRC) with Siemens Energy TC3 
coating in the area of packing travel. (If the gas also contains CO
2, please refer to "GFP-16". If 
stainless steel rods are required, they will be made out of age hardened 17-4 PH material and 
TC3 coated.) 
 
5) Suction port oilers are recommended. Alternat ively, the valves can be supplied with special 
spring material. 
 
6) Siemens Energy standard nodular iron valves will be furnished when pressures allow. 
 
7) If forged steel cylinders are required for the application, a modified AISI 4132 steel alloy is 
required. 
  
EXCEPTIONS TO NACE MR01 75-94 SPECIFICATION: 
 
1) A combination of Siemens Energy field experience  and reference to specifications NACE MR0-175-94 
and API 11P has been used to compile this GFP. Siem ens Energy has taken into account stress levels, 
type of stress, exposure to sour gas and the critical nature of the part. 
 
2) Hardness of Carbon and Low-Allo y Steels (3.2), and ferritic stainl ess steels (3.6) materials shall not 
exceed 22 HRC. 
 
A) Tube Fittings. Tube fittings will be type 316 stai nless steel double ferrule type. The hardness of 
the ferrule will exceed 22 HRC. Field experience with these fittings has been excellent. 
 
B) Chrome Silicon Springs are not listed by NACE as an acceptabl e material. Siemens Energy has 
had favorable experience with this material in compressor valve service. 
 
C) AISI 440C Stainless Steel hardened and tempered  to 50 HRC. This material is used as a guide 
ring on PF valves. The stress level is minimal. Siemens Energy has had favorable experience. 
 
D) Steel Nut, PF Valve. The stress level is lo w and Siemens Energy has favorable experience. 
 
E) Rollpin. This is used as a valve plate guide on the PF valve. The stress level is low. Siemens 
Energy has favorable experience in lubricated valve service. 
 
F) Piston rods made from AISI 4142 alloy steel are tempered back to 22 HRC or less. After the 
tempering heat treatment, threads are rolled on the rods, causing hardness at the roots of the 
threads to exceed 22 HRC. However, field experience in sour gas has been very good due to 
favorable residual stress pattern, surface finish, and grain flow patterns. 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG   Gas Field Policy, GFP 18 
Februar y, 2021 
 
3)  Siemens Energy has favorable experience with the following cast irons: 
 A) ASTM A278 Class 40 (Gray Iron), ASTM A536 (Ductile Iron) (Grade 65-45-12) and ASTM A395 
(Ductile Iron) (Grade 60-40-18) for compressor cylinders and other components. 
 
B) Continuous Cast Gray Iron is used on solid pi stons and some small cylinder heads. It is 
equivalent to a Class 30/35 iron. 
 
C) Centrifugally Cast Gray Iron is used for cyli nder liners. It is equivalent to a Class 35 iron. 
 
D) NiResist ASTM A436 Type 5 with 34-36% Ni (Minovar) is used as a piston rod collar on 
aluminum pistons due to its low coefficient of  thermal expansion. The material is under 
compression at all times. 
 
E) Ductile Iron, Continuous Cast Grade 80-55- 06 is used for fully machined low to medium 
pressure valve seats and stopplates & guards. 
 
F) Ductile Iron Castings Grade 100-70-30 is used fo r low to medium pressure PF valve seats and 
stopplates & guards. 
 
4)  COMMENTS TO NACE MR0175 SPECIFICATION: 
 A) Paragraph 6.2.2.1, ASTM A193, Grade B7 M bolting 80,000 psi minimum yield strength and 
HRC 22 maximum hardness. This material is us ed on certain cylinder designs where the head 
bolting is in the process gas passageway; e.g., Clamshell head designs. It is also used as an 
option for cylinder bolting at an extra cost. This bolting meets the requirements of this 
Paragraph, however, it may exceed the 90,000 psi maximum yield strength limitation as outlined 
by API 11P, Paragraph 15.3.2.2. AISI 4142 alloy steel piston rods may al so exceed the 90,000 
psi yield strength limitation up to a maximum of 95,000 psi. 
 
B) Paragraph 10.7.2, Aluminum Alloy 335, Temper T-7 (ASTM B-26). Siemens Energy uses either 
Alloy 355-T7, Alloy SR 319.0-T51, or Frontier 40H for aluminum pistons. 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG   Gas Field Policy, GFP 18 
Februar y, 2021 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE 1 
  

 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG   Gas Field Policy, GFP 18 
Februar y, 2021 
FIGURE 2 
 
PURGED PACKING / PURGED WIPER ARRANGEMENT 
FOR SOUR GAS APPLICATIONS 
 
1. PURGED ROD PACKING - In our "standard" rod pack ing, the vent line is just  ahead of the last packing 
cup (closest to the frame). For sour gas service, t he packing rings of the last  two cups are exchanged 
for "side loaded" rings, with a PURGE line in between. This is so that any PURGE gas leakage will be in 
both directions (into the VENT line and into the di stance piece), and any no rmal PROCESS gas leakage 
will be carried away by the VENT line. 
 
2.  PURGED WIPER CASE - For an extra measure of safety, two sets of "side loaded" rings, with a 
PURGE line in between, are added to the wiper case (at the frame end of the distance piece). Any 
leakage of PURGE gas will be in both directions (into the distance piece and into the frame extension). 
 3.  DISTANCE PIECE - Any leakage into the distan ce piece, of either PURGE or PROCESS gas, will be 
carried away by the distance piece VENT line. An "oil  slinger" (if required per the order) can be attached 
to the piston rod to keep any oil which has had contact with the PROCESS gas (from the rod packing) 
from traveling along the piston rod and into the fram e. This may require an extra long distance piece. 
 
This distance piece configuratio n creates a double buffer between t he PROCESS gas and the frame. This 
arrangement produces the same effect as the API 11P Type 3 distance piece option. 
Both PURGE gas lines should be protected from back pres sure by a check valve outside the distance piece, 
supplied by the Reseller.  
