      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Drive System 
2020, Rev. #0 
Packager Guidelines 
Section 3: Drive System 
 
3-1.  General 
The compressor drive system includes the dr iver and coupling, and flywheel if required. 
Reciprocating compressors are most often driv en by gas engines or electric motors, but 
occasionally may be driven by gas or steam turbines through a gearbox. The design of 
the drive system requires consideration of the maximum horsepower available to drive 
the frame, and the torsional characteristic of both the driver and the compressor frame. 
Gas engines equipped with viscous damped vibration dampers normally present very few 
torsional problems, while electric motors often require compromises with the motor 
supplier to achieve a torsionally acceptable solution. A torsional analysis should be 
performed when utilizing:   
• A new engine / frame combination. 
•  Electric motor drivers, particu larly those with horsepower ratings 
approaching those of the frame and / or  those with variable speed drives. 
• Any drive with a gearbox. 
 3-2.  Coupling Selection 
The selection of the coupling will depend on the torsional characteristics and/or 
horsepower requirements of the driver/frame co mbination. Most direct driven units use a 
torsionally rigid, flexible disc type coupling. When sizing a flexible disc type coupling, a 
service factor of 3.0 is often used, t hough it is prudent to consult the coupling 
manufacturer for their recommendation. In those cases requiring a torsionally soft 
coupling, care must be taken to insure the supplier is fully aware of the torsional 
requirements of the coupling, as many are not familiar with reciprocating compressor 
applications. 
 
All current Siemens Energy HS RC units use keyless shafts and rely upon an interference 
fit between the coupling hub and the shaft to transmit driver torque. The degree of 
interference is dependent upon shaft diameter and hub material and design.  
 3-3.  Coupling Counterbalance Weight 
Some couplings supplied on 2 and 4 throw old style HOS compressors where there is 
only one internal weight connected to the crankshaft at the pump end, need to be equipped with a weight that is fastened to  the coupling hub unless the flywheel has a 
bolted on weight or a machined flat to counter the internal weight. Together, these two 
weights convert a large portion of the horizont al moments into vertical moments. This 
reduces the potential for high mechanical vi bration seen in most reciprocating type 
compressors. The MOS and new style HOS and HOSS have both these counterweights 
mounted internal to the frame. 
 
 
3-4. Alignment 
Angular misalignment should be as close to ZERO as possible, and should ideally be 
within 0.002 inch (0.05 mm) Total Indicator Reading (T.I.R.) for an average 12-inch (305 
mm) indicated diameter coupling. If it is not pos sible to get this close, we will accept up to 
0.005 inch (0.13mm) T.I.R. as an outside limit. These figures are not as liberal as those 
supplied by the coupling manufacturer, but t hose limits refer to what the coupling can 
tolerate and ignore coupled equipment limitations. The above figures are recommended 
for Siemens Energy equipment.  
 
      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Drive System 
2020, Rev. #0 
When doing coupling alignment, it is important to insure the thrust on the compressor is 
centered. You want to insure when the compressor is running there is no push or pull on 
either thrust shoe.  
After the alignment is done, rotate the engine/motor and compressor through a few 
revolutions to insure the thrust of the compressor is centered. 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 4. Correcting for Angular Misalignment  
 
  
 
PROCEDURE  
 
1. DIAL INDICATOR READINGS IN THE 
VERTICAL DIRECTION INDICATE THAT THE 
DISTANCE BETWEEN COUPLING FACES 
AT THE 12:00 POSITION IS "a" DIMENSION GREATER THAN AT THE 6:00 POSITION. 
 
2. BY REPOSITIONING THE EQUIPMENT TO 
NARROW THE DISTANCES AT 12:00 BY a/2 
THE DISTANCE AT 6:00 IS INCREASED 
PROPORTIONATELY. THIS ALIGNS THE 
COUPLED SHAFTS.  
 
3. CORRECTIONS IN THE HORIZONTAL  
DIRECTION (3:00 AND 9:00 POSITIONS) ARE MADE IN THE SAME MANNER.
 
      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Drive System 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
3-5.  Flywheel Installation (When required) 
 The flywheel, when needed, can be installed either with a shrink fit to the compressor 
shaft, or by use of a tapered bushing. 
 The following instructions apply to in stallation using the shrink fit bushing. 
 
1.  Clean the bore in the flywheel and the outside of the bushing.  Also clean the bore 
of the bushing and the corresponding sect ion of the crankshaft. Do not use any 
type lubricant during assembly. 
2. Measure the crankshaft OD and the bushing ID. Insure there will be a 0.00050" 
(0.01 mm) - 0.00075" inch  (0.02 mm) per in ch of shaft diameter interference fit 
between the two before proceeding. 
3. Heat the bushing until it has reached an  average temperature of 500° F (260°C). 
This can be accomplished by using an oven or an acetylene torch in conjunction 
with a tempstick to monitor the temperature. 
4. When the bushing comes up to temperatur e, it is vital that it be slipped on in a 
timely manner and pushed far enough down t he shaft so that it becomes flush 
with the end of the crankshaft and no further 
5. At this point, let the bushing cool before assembling the flywheel onto the 
bushing. 
6.  Using proper lifting techniques and a hoist having sufficient capacity, install the 
flywheel onto the bushing. Snug each of the attachment bolts, but do not tighten. 
7.  With the flywheel firmly in place,  tighten the attachment bolts evenly to the 
required torque setting. Once tight, there should still be some clearance between the bushing flange and the flywheel. You may also check to ensure the bushing 
is tight by attempting to insert a 0.001 (0.03 mm) or 0.0015 inch (0.04 mm) feeler 
gauge between the wheel and the shaft (at two points diametrically opposed). Any clearance indicates improper installation. 
8.  The T.I.R. as measured on the face of the flywheel where the coupling adapter 
attaches should not exceed .005 inch (0.01 mm). 
 
The following instructions apply to installation using the tapered bushing.  
1.  Clean the bore in the flywheel and the outside of the bushing.  Also clean the bore 
of the bushing and the corre sponding section of  the crankshaft. Do not use or 
any other type lubricant during assembly. 
2.  Install the bushing into the flywheel. Snug each of the attachment bolts, but do 
not tighten. 
3.  Using proper lifting techniques, and a hoist having sufficient capacity, install the 
flywheel onto the crankshaft. 
4.  With the flywheel firmly in place,  tighten the attachment bolts evenly to the 
required torque setting. Once tight, there should still be some clearance between 
the bushing flange and the flywheel. You may also check to ensure the bushing 
is tight by attempting to insert a 0.001 (0.03 mm) or 0.0015 inch (0.04 mm) feeler 
gauge between the flywheel and the shaft (at two points diametrically opposed). 
Any clearance indicates improper installation. 
5.  The T.I.R. as measured on the face of the flywheel where the coupling adapter 
attaches should not exceed .005 inch (0.01 mm). 
 
 
      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
  Packager Guidelines, Drive System 
2020, Rev. #0 
NOTE 
When installing any hub on the compressor 
crankshaft, there must be no less than 1" clearance 
from the back of the hub to  the front cover of the 
frame. This is to facilitat e removal of the crankshaft 
oil seal if service is required. 
 
3-6.  Compressor Cylinders 
Compressor cylinders are normally installed on the frame at the factory and shipped 
complete. Under certain circumstances the cylinders may be shipped loose and then 
installed at the packagers. If this is the ca se refer to the MAINTENANCE section of the 
particular compressor Instruction Manual you are working on. 
 