Decarbonization through Technology Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications May 18, 2023 8 min read Renewable energy isn’t enough Story To be clear, the world is more than ready to receive more renewable energy. But substantial expansion and strengthening of the grid are urgently needed to make it happen. Why more renewable energy is a must If the world is to meet the 2015 Paris Agreement target of limiting global warming to a maximum of 1.5 °C, we absolutely have to act faster. As the latest IPCC report Climate Change 2023 makes clear, every incremental rise in temperature increases the risk of catastrophic events.  And every region in the world is behind schedule on decarbonization, as revealed by the recent Global Energy Transition Readiness Index report produced by Siemens Energy in association with Roland Berger. Renewable electricity is a big part of the solution, and the good news is that generation is being stepped up substantially.  In 2020, renewables accounted for 82% of global generation capacity expansion.  And global investment in renewable energy reached a record high of 500 billion USD in 2022. However, simply adding renewable energy to the grid won’t solve the climate crisis on its own.  There is a fundamental issue which needs to be addressed here – and it concerns the grid itself. “ We need to get electricity to the people who don't have it, and we need to do it in a way that is clean and reliable and affordable. Erin Baker Distinguished Professor of Industrial Engineering & Operations Research, University of Massachusetts Amherst Renewable energy isn’t enough It's key to stabilize the grid and expand storage Source: BloombergNEF | Note: Despicts the Net Zero Scenario in BNEF's New Energy Outlook, which maps a pathway to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. Much needs to be done to make the grid ready for the new energy future. The fact is that the current infrastructure is simply not equipped to handle a substantial rise in renewables. On top of the need to enlarge the grid, the fluctuating nature of renewables requires a mix of new technologies to balance supply and demand. And according to IRENA, the shift from the regular grid to a renewables grid will demand at least a threefold increase in energy storage capacity by 2030. The infrastructure is simply not being updated at the rate of progress required.  There’s an urgent need for more investment – and for a clear plan of action. Accelerate renewables This will vary by region; the Asia-Pacific region will have to increase its use by up to ten times by 2050, compared with a three- or four-fold increase in Europe. Strengthen the grid We need more robust grids which will not only serve the needs of an individual country, but which are capable of meeting demand within and between regions. Expand infrastructure Honestly, the existing infrastructure should be used as a bridge towards the new energy future – even if this means using conventional technologies for a period. Improve energy efficiency Efficient generation is essential, given the continuing rise in energy demand.  But there’s also huge potential for efficiency gains in consumption. Secure supply chain and  resources More materials and minerals are needed for the energy transition; for example, an onshore wind plant requires nine times more mineral resources than a gas-fired plant. “ Greater investment in infrastructure is indispensable. Tim Holt Member of the Siemens Energy Executive Board Resolving the energy trilemma Updating and expanding the grid is no simple challenge. Indeed, this is a three-part challenge: as well as being sustainable, the grid needs to be reliable and affordable (the ‘energy trilemma’). Affordability through connectivity Our HVDC technology connects wind farms to the grid with the lowest possible line losses.  Digital connectivity further increases efficiency, while lower operational costs, regulatory incentives and no carbon pricing also help to make renewables comparable in cost-effectiveness to fossil power. Reliability through increased stability Cross-border interconnectors and synchronous condensers stabilize the grid in terms of frequency and voltage, thereby improving security of supply. Better load flow management helps to balance the fluctuations in power. Sustainability through innovative technology Low emission products and solutions are already available and make energy systems more sustainable. Better storage solutions also serve to balance supply and demand, ensuring that energy is always available whenever and wherever needed. Stronger infrastructure in action The prime testing ground for new grid technology isn’t solid ground.  With its raging winds, the North Sea is set to become a beacon of sustainability – and by enabling greater connectivity between countries it will increase reliability of supply.  It’s predicted that by 2050, this will be Europe’s largest climate-neutral energy system. Further facts on the energy trilemma, renewables, and the grid If you'd like to dig deeper into any aspect of the energy trilemma, we've produced a number of whitepapers on each. On topics related to sustainability , you can read more on how increased storage will enable us to deliver more renewable energy, on the use of alternative fluids , and on the importance of eliminating F-gases from high-voltage electrical equipment. On affordability , we explain how our MVDC Plus solution reduces costs through low converter losses and a compact footprint, and how artificial intelligence is making the grid more efficient. While on reliability , you can find out more about grid stabilization – achieved through solutions such as UPFC Plus which controls load flow – and about enhanced fire safety for substations delivered by Pretact EcoSafeT TM . Our partner company Siemens Gamesa has also produced a paper on how the wind industry can contribute to the energy security of Europe. Of course, we cannot tackle the trilemma alone.  To make the energy transition work, it’s essential that we work together in partnership . Read more November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey July 18, 2024 8 min read Mastering grid upgrades: the impact of decarbonizing supply chains March 26, 2024 6 min read Gas turbine plant as guarantor for grid stability January 30, 2024 5 min read Navigating energy challenges: affordability, reliability, sustainability See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025