Siemens Energy has leveraged its extensive engineering 
expertise to create a groundbreaking design that sets a new 
benchmark in effective flow area, serviceability, reliability, 
longevity, and efficiency—the MAGNUM™ Plus valve. 
This innovative valve is suitable for all molecular weight 
applications at both low and high compressor speeds and  
can be used with all brands of reciprocating compressors.
Unique advantages
The MAGNUM™ Plus valve optimizes compressor efficiency 
for a wide range of applications, including hydrogen, 
carbon dioxide, ethylene, propane, and natural gas. Unlike 
other poppet valves, it performs exceptionally well at high 
compressor speeds. Additionally, unlike plate and ring valves, 
the MAGNUM™ Plus valve uses a single element, well-
known from our MAGNUM™ valve series for all valve sizes, 
simplifying inventory management. 
 
 
 Features and benefits
• Improves flow and reduces pressure drop backflow
• Increased compressor efficiency and reduced horsepower
consumption
• High reliability
• Multi-poppet design is tolerant against over-lubrication,
liquid carry over, and will continue to function with
damaged elements eliminating unplanned shutdowns
• Easy to maintain and overhaul - common parts for every
valve size, replaceable element cup design
• Simplifies the installation and service of compressors in
remote locations and under difficult conditions
• Suitable for:
• Lubed and non-lubed cylinder applications
• Sour-gas applications
• Compressors rotating speeds up to 1800 RPM
• Differential pressure up to 3000 psi / 207 barsiemens-energy.comMAGNUM™ 
Plus Valve:
Setting a new standard in flow,  
efficiency, and serviceability
Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
@Siemens Energy 2024  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of further  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owners.Raising the standard
Valve performance and reliability are crucial to compressor 
efficiency. The MAGNUM™ Plus valve’s unique component 
design decouples the outlet flow area from the valve element 
functional area, increasing the effective flow area on the 
outlet side while simultaneously enhancing the effective 
flow area within the valve functional area. The use of 
threaded cups, which define the valve elements' movement 
direction through their unique shape, supports easy and 
straightforward service activities that can be performed by 
the customer's own resources. The valve element design 
minimizes tensile stresses, resulting in long life in demanding 
applications and easy serviceability.Valve Elements and Springs
•  Reliable, robust modified PEEK 
element
•  Lower impact velocities and  
quiet operation
•  Spring inserts prevent spring 
element and cup wear 
• Low stress spring design 
 
 
 Seat
• Optimized flow pattern
• Ported holes for improved efficiency
• High density element layout
• Minimizes power consumption
• Proven materials (Nodular Iron,
17-4PH SS, SAE AISI 4140)
Stopplate
• Increase flow area
• "Open" design to reduce particle
build up
• Proven materials (Nodular Iron,
17-4PH SS, SAE AISI 4140)Valve Elements Cups
•  Replaceable
•  Corrosion resistant and high 
strength stainless steel
• High density element layout
•  Profiled to optimize aerodynamic 
flow path
Innovative design for high efficiency and lower 
operational costs
Advanced computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and finite 
element analysis (FEA) were employed to develop the 
MAGNUM™ Plus valve’s geometry, improving valve flow area 
by up to 30 percent compared to our renowned MAGNUM™ 
Hammerhead design. Increased flow area and reduced 
valve losses translate into enhanced efficiency and lower 
operational costs.
Performance testing
Flow testing has demonstrated that the MAGNUM™ Plus valve 
outperforms all other valve types tested, including MAGNUM 
legacy lines, poppet, plate, and ring-type valves (see graph of 
Flow Area vs. Lift).
Experience the future of compressor valve technology 
with the MAGNUM™ Plus valve—engineered for superior 
performance, efficiency, and ease of service.
 Effective Flow  Area
LiftFlow area comparison
(Plus vs. MAGNUM, HammerHead and Plate Valve)
Plus
MAGHH
PFHigh Speed compressorsLow Speed Process compressors
MAGNUM Hammerhead Plus Ported plate