Proven to Run Longer Between Overhauls
Valve performance and reliability are key to 
compressor performance. By paying careful 
attention to reliability in every aspect of the 
design, we’ve created a valve that can run 
more than 50% longer than other valves 
before needing service. We proved it in 
thousands of hours of tests, many at high 
speeds and high temperatures, with a wide 
range of gases.Siemens Energy has more than  
100 years of valve design and 
manufacturing leadership have 
culminated in an innovative 
design that sets new 
benchmarks for reliability, long 
life, efficiency, affordability,  
and short cycle times from 
quote to shipment—the 
MAGNUMTM valve. Suitable  
for all brands of reciprocating 
compressors, the MAGNUMTM 
valve can be configured for  
a wide range of operating 
conditions and virtually any  
gas process.A high-strength thermo-plastic, 
PolyEtherEtherKetone (PEEK), is used to 
create low-mass sealing elements that 
withstand the high impact velocities that 
occur during operation. It also handles high 
temperatures, is compatible with most gas 
applications, and resists dirt, corrosion and 
liquid swelling. The PEEK sealing element 
provides reliable performance in demanding 
conditions while the streamlined flow path 
optimizes the effective flow area.
MAGNUMTM Valve
New benchmark for reliability and efficiency.
Less Expensive to Own
Because the MAGNUMTM valve uses just 
a few small, standardized components, 
you’ll have lower inventory costs. Parts 
are also readily available from the  
business. In many cases, the exceptionally low 
cost of replacing MAGNUMTM valve  
parts will make it more cost effective  
to outfit an entire compressor with 
MAGNUMTM valves, rather than 
continually replacing the expensive 
parts used by other valve types.Customized To Your Application
We use proprietary dynamic valve 
analysis (DVA) software to custom 
design every MAGNUMTM valve to ensure 
optimal performance and efficiency.Optimize Efficiency
While designing for reliability we didn’t 
neglect efficiency. The MAGNUMTM  
valve uses a revolutionary new grid 
pattern—so the seat, guard and lift 
areas are well balanced. The effective flow areas (EFA) are similar  
to those of other valve types, so the 
MAGNUMTM valve won’t compromise 
performance. And because each 
element operates independently, the 
design automatically compensates for 
non-uniform gas flow. This helps reduce 
wear, while maximizing flow and 
minimizing pressure losses.
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry  
4400 Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, Florida  
USA
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Capscrew
Seat
High-strength, low-mass sealing element
Locating pins for precision assembly
Low-stress spring design
Optimized gas flow path
Guard
Cross Section of MAGNUMTM Valve
Features Benefits
High-strength valve element Operates at high compressor speeds and pressure differentials
Applied to all brands of reciprocating compressors Commonality of internal components and reconditioning practices
Proven advanced valve element geometry Reduces fatigue stresses for extended life while minimizing power losses
Common element for all valvesReduces parts inventory
Increases interchangeability/availability of replacement parts
Minimizes replacement costs
Nonmetallic valve elementCovers full spectrum of gas applications
Absorbs high impact velocities
Can be used for lube or nonlube
Precision-guided element and springs Increases reliability of moving parts for long-term operation
Streamlined flow path with optimized seat, guard 
and lift areasOptimizes effective flow area (EFA) and is more tolerant of particles and liquids in the gas
Custom valve selection using proprietary dynamic 
valve analysis  (DVA) softwareOptimizes valve performance and reliability