Unique Advantages
The MAGNUMTM HammerHead valve 
maximizes compressor efficiency for high 
molecular weight applications such as 
carbon dioxide, ethylene, propane, and 
natural gas. Unlike other poppet valves, the 
HammerHead valve can be applied at high 
compressor speeds. Unlike plate and ring 
valves, the HammerHead valve uses one 
element for all valve sizes which simplifies 
inventory management .Siemens Energy has built upon 
its legacy of engineering 
expertise to achieve an 
innovative design that raises 
the benchmark for reliability, 
long life, efficiency, 
affordability, and short cycle 
times from quote to shipment  
—the  MAGNUMTM 
HammerHead™ valve. It is 
specifically designed for high 
molecular weight applications 
at both low and high 
compressor speeds. The 
MAGNUMTM HammerHead valve 
can be applied to all brands of 
reciprocating compressors.
 MAGNUMTM HammerHead Valve
New benchmark for reliability and efficiency.
Improving the Standard
Valve performance and reliability  
are critical to compressor performance.  
The HammerHead valve’s unique  
element design minimizes tensile  
stresses. The result is long  
life in some of the most  
demanding applications.Innovative Design Results in High 
Efficiency
Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and 
finite element analysis (FEA) were used 
to develop the HammerHead valve’s 
geometry which improves valve flow 
area by as much as 60 percent. Minimal 
valve losses translate into improved 
efficiency.
Performance Testing
Flow testing revealed that the 
MAGNUMTM HammerHead valve 
surpassed all other valve types tested 
(see graph of Flow Area vs. Lift) 
including the poppet, plate and ring-
type valves.
Seat
Locating pins 
for precise 
alignment
Guard
Low stress 
spring designGas flow
Fastener
Advanced valve 
element geometry
Precision-guided 
valve elements and 
springs
Patent No.: US 9,309,978 B2
Streamlined flow path with optimized seat, guard and lift areas maximizes valve flow area;  
exceptional tolerance for liquids and particulates in the gas.
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry  
4400 Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, Florida  
USA
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Features Benefits
High-strength valve element Allows operation at high compressor speeds and pressure differentials
Applied to all brands of reciprocating compressorsCommonality of internal components and reconditioning practices Readily used with finger  
& plug unloaders
Proven advanced valve element geometry Reduces fatigue stresses for extended life while minimizing power losses
Common element for all valvesReduces parts inventory
Increases interchangeability
Minimizes replacement costs
Precision-guided element and springs Increases reliability of moving parts for long-term operation
Streamlined flow path with optimized seat, guard 
and lift areasMaximizes valve flow area and is more tolerant of particles and liquids in the gas
Optimized design for increased efficiencyLower      BHP     
            MMSCFD