Unloaders For Any Application
Dresser-Rand unloaders are used during 
compressor start-up and for capacity control 
during compressor operation. Specific 
applications for unloaders are determined 
by clients’ requirements and compressor 
design. 
The standard operator design for  
Dresser-Rand plug, port and clearance 
pocket unloaders is air-to-load. Air-to-unload 
designs for these unloaders are also 
available. Other designs, including finger 
unloaders, are available to meet your 
compressor cylinder unloading needs.Performance You Can Rely On
OEM-designed and made of corrosion 
resistant materials, Our unloaders meet  
the toughest performance requirements. 
The unloaders feature standardized 
components—indicators, piston rods, 
springs, O-Rings, non-metallic seal rings—
for low inventory costs. Plus, fugitive 
emissions are virtually eliminated with 
spring-energized TFE gland design with  
vent and purge capability. A standard 
indicator confirms whether the unloader  
is open or closed.We offer compressor 
unloaders that set the 
standards for reliability, 
fugitive emission reduction, 
corrosion resistance, and 
reduced maintenance and 
inventory costs.
Unloaders
For reciprocating compressors
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressors

Port Unloader
The port unloader is installed in a 
cylinder valve hole, with the unloader 
valve seated against a replaceable 
donut. This closes the inlet passage, 
effectively loading that end of the 
compressor cylinder. When the valve is 
unseated, that end of the compressor 
cylinder is unloaded.
Plug Unloader
The plug unloader is used in conjunction 
with a partial inlet valve. When the 
unloader valve is seated, the inlet valve 
functions normally. When the unloader valve is unseated, process gas in the 
cylinder bypasses the valve through 
the center opening, unloading that 
end of the compressor cylinder.
Clearance Pocket Unloader
The clearance pocket unloader is 
used to open or close a clearance 
pocket. When the unloader valve is 
seated, the clearance pocket is 
closed. When the unloader valve is 
unseated, the additional clearance 
volume of the pocket is opened to the 
compressor cylinder, reducing the 
cylinder capacity.
Seal ventplugged
pluggedSeal buffer purgeplugged 
connection
plugged 
connectionseal buffer purgeSeal vent
Seal ventSeal  
sweeping  
purge
Seal  
sweeping  
purge
Gland 
sweeping Gland ventUnloader rod
GlandO-ringsStandard sweeping purge unloader seal Standard buffer purge unloader seal 
Optional sweeping purge O-ring glandA plug unloader
Optional buffer purge O-ring gland
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA
 
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Features Benefits
Guides for unloader valve alignment Ensure proper alignment for positive seating and minimal leakage
Standardized components Reduce parts inventory and cost; improve availability
Aluminum piston and stainless steel housing Resist corrosion; extend life
Spring located out of gas stream Eliminates wear from dirt, corrosion and debris; extends life
Sleeve-type unloader valve Minimizes area exposed to differential pressure; results in improved sealing with typical operator air pressure
Shoulder bolt Provides consistent, direct seating
Stepped rod design Ensures safe, dependable operation
Bellows rod seal (optional) Eliminates fugitive emissions through the unloader rod