The iFlow™ g3 Monitoring System  
is one of the most advanced  
real-time continuous reciprocating 
compressor monitoring systems 
available in the market today.
Applicable to Reciprocating Compressors
Siemens Energy offers a comprehensive portfolio of 
reciprocating compression solutions for upstream, midstream, 
and downstream applications. Compressor solutions can be 
standardized or tailored to your needs in a variety of 
applications – such as on- or offshore gas production, natural 
gas transmission and distribution, air separation, chemicals, 
petrochemicals, and refining. The iFlow™ g3 monitoring system 
is applicable to Siemens Energy OEM and non-OEM 
Reciprocating Compressors.iFlow™ g3 Monitoring System
The iFlow™ g3 system is a proactive automated monitoring 
system that effectively captures critical data for reciprocating 
compressors. The iFlow™ system uses continuously measured 
pressure data and combines it with temperature and other 
system parameters gathered to generate mathematical models 
for comparison with the actual pressure parameters. The 
system effectively monitors, logs, and analyzes data coming in 
from each end of the compressor cylinders. A single iFlow™ g3 
system can monitor up to 10 double-acting cylinders (20 
ends).
With these comparisons, the iFlow™ g3 system identifies 
anomalies (such as suction valve leakage, discharge valve 
leakage and ring leakage) in the compression and reexpansion 
events of the compression cycles. Any checks that do not pass 
the diagnostic evaluations are annunciated to the operator via 
the Modbus and through the user interface software. These 
diagnostics are performed on every cylinder, every cycle.
In addition, the myConnect™ box, which is a state-of-theart 
connectivity module, allows for efficient data gathering, 
packaging, and transmission; the myConnect™ box will allow 
a remote troubleshooting functionality for the iFlow™ g3 
system.siemens-energy.comiFlow™ g3  
Monitoring
System
Applicable to Reciprocating  
Compressors 
Turning operational 
data into value by 
identifying potential 
issues before they 
impact on site 
operations.
Technical design and improvements
•  New diagnostic capabilities in order to proactively identify 
anomalies in the compression and re-expansion events in 
the compression cycle.
•  Consistent data capture and rapid communication. All 
system data (current performance, statistical and pressure 
curves for each cylinder) is provisionally stored on the micro 
controller and is easily linked to a PC or HMI for data archival 
or historical analysis.
•  A simplified user interaction with a newly developed and 
intuitive PC/Windows software used for both operation and 
configuration of the iFlow™ g3 system.
Features and benefits
The iFlow™ g3 offers various benefits to your operation, inclu-
ding:
•  Increasing reliability and availability through proactive sup-
port and identifying a potential issue before it impacts site 
operation.
• Leveraging OEM design and fleet wide experience.
•  Various integrity diagnostics are performed on every cylin-
der, every cycle for improved responsiveness and advanced 
troubleshooting.Remote diagnostic capability to ensure 
peace of mind through active data monitoring by diagnostic 
engineers.Applicability
As the compressor OEM, Siemens Energy is best suited to 
provide a conversion solution that ensures the best overall 
compressor performance and maintenance, from a single 
source. Applicable to all Siemens Energy OEM and non-OEM 
Reciprocating Compressors.
Support Services and Implementation
Siemens Energy Services experts support the customer in all 
the aspects of installation. Providing upgrade, revamp, repair 
solutions, and technical support at all levels of client projects.
Scope of Work
Typical manufacturing lead times range for standard parts 
depending on the factory workload. Packing installation and 
maintenance access must also be considered.
• Engineering design and drafting
• Procurement and documentation
• Installation and supervision
• Commissioning
Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transformation of Industry  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USASubject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of furhter  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owner.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Figure 1- Threshold Screen Figure 2- Data Summary