
EMISSIONS 
RETROFIT OPTIONS 
EPA's 1Good Neighbor' ruling 
stoichiometric conditions. This excess of air 
creates a lean mixture which can improve 
fuel efficiency and reduce carbon dioxide  
(CO2) emissions. However, the lean­burn 
combustion process is associated with 
challenges related to NOx emissions  
reduction. 
Lean-burn engines tend to operate 
at lower combustion temperatures. The 
excess air makes it difficult to ignite the 
mixture, which can lead to combustion  
instability. Technologies, such as 
precombustion chambers or advanced  ignition systems are often needed to 
ensure stable combustion in lean-burn 
engines. Depending on the engine. these 
can contribute to NOx emission levels.  
Rich-burn gas engines operate with a 
lower air-fuel ratio and are typically used 
in applications where power output and 
combustion stability are critical. Rich­
burn engines generally operate at higher 
combustion temperatures compared  
to lean-burn engines. This can result in 
increased thermal NOx formation.       Rich-burn engines may experience 
incomplete combustion, leading to the 
emission of unburned hydrocarbons and 
carbon monoxide (CO). . 
To address NOx emissions in rich-burn 
gas engines, combustion optimization and 
exhaust aftertreatment technologies. such 
as three-way catalysts are often utilized. 
LEC options for lean-burn engines 
Siemens Energy offers two basic hardware 
packages for its legacy 2-stroke and 
4-stroke lean-burn engines. They are:
1.2-stroke lean Bum (target NOx target 
level:3.0
grams)-A pplicable engines
include Clark (TCV, TLC, HBA, HRA, HBAT) and
Worthington (UTC. sure. ML, MLV)
2. 4-Stroke Lean Bum (target NOx target 
level: 1.5 gr
ams) -Applicable engines
include Ing ersoll-Rand (KVS, KVR. KVT. KVSE,
SVS) 
and Worthington (SLC)
Incorporating LEC conversion hardware 
essentially results in an engine that closely 
duplicates a Dresser-Rand (D-R) production 
low NOx integral gas engine. 
At the heart of each LEC conversion is 
a water-cooled screw-in precombustion 
(SIP) chamber. The SIP is installed in 
existing 
power cylinder heads and prevents 
combustion issues and cylinder peak firing 
pressure balancing complications. 
The major difference between 3-gram 
and 1.5-gram conversion packages relates 
to the different turbocharger combustion 
air systems and fuel injection modifications 
necessary for incremental increases in 
engine air-fuel ratio. 
Port-4 fuel injection technology may be 
required for the 4-Stroke 1.5-gram solution 
to enable enhanced air-fuel mixing. The 
Port-4 injection system is electronically 
controlled and eliminates many of the 
characteristic problems of direct-injected, 
MAY 20241 COMPIIESSOR TECH2 I 25»

