siemens-energy.com/compressionrepairsLaser scanning for 
digital repairs
Page 2
Laser Scanning for Digital Repairs
The introduction of 3D laser 
scanning for digital inspection has revolutionized maintenance, quality control, and design processes, providing numerous advantages over traditional inspection methods.
Our 3D laser scanning technology  
is a non-contact, high-precision method of inspection that offers a comprehensive way to capture the physical dimensions of compressors and their components in intricate detail.
Page 2
Shedding light on digital repairs
Page 3
Laser Scanning for Digital RepairsFaster inspections  
Our scanners take millions of data points every second, and when 
combined with our automated inspection scripts, our technicians can dimensionally inspect your equipment in real time – right on the shop floor.Enhanced client experience 
Using industry-leading inspection software we can create visua -
lizations of any damage on your equipment, aiding in your comprehension of the suggested repairs. Measurements from the laser scanner are also linked directly to our digital inspection platform (Digital Inspection Jacket) which allows us to provide repair recommendations to you in a fraction of the time.More data 
When your unit is scanned at a Siemens Energy Service Center, the data is securely saved and organized in our PLM system. This allows us to precisely compare the current condition of your equip-ment to its state from the last repair, highlighting the distinct wear patterns of your machine. This data is also accessible to our Modi-fications & Upgrades, Technical Support, and Field Service teams between overhaul cycles, ensuring you receive the highest quality service possible.

Page 4
Laser Scanning for Digital RepairsReal-time digital inspection
Rapidly scanning components is just the beginning; our automated inspection scripts enable our 
technicians to analyze scans and produce actionable insights directly from the shop floor, eliminating  
the need for engineering delays or offshore processing.
Non-contact measurement
With a contact-less approach, laser scanning is ideal for inspecting fragile items without any damage 
risk, enhancing safety for both the object and the operator.
Comprehensive data collection
Our 3D laser scanning delivers a complete data overview in just one pass, providing a detailed 
 analysis and uncovering potential issues that less comprehensive methods might overlook.
Page 5
Laser Scanning for Digital RepairsOutage reduction through virtual assembly
In addition to reducing inspection time, we utilize the gathered data to significantly 
decrease the length of turnaround periods.
Digital pre-assembly
Before turnaround begins, we have the capability to scan and inspect all spare parts, followed  
by digital assembly. This preparation allows us to be ready before time becomes a factor.  
Once turnaround commences, we can seamlessly integrate the digital assembly into the newly 
scanned environment, enabling the immediate start of  precision machining.
Digital reassembly
After completing the scans of all major components, we have the capability to digitally piece together the scans. This enables us to quickly identify any potential fitting or interference issues well before the reassembly process begins.
Digital alignment
Once reassembly is finalized, we employ our scanner to determine the rotor's centerline and adjust the seal clearances, ensuring accuracy before the rotor is installed.

Page 6
Laser Scanning for Digital RepairsCustom repairs 
We provide a detailed and flexible approach, facilitating exact 
repair for a diverse range of parts and components. 
Precise repairs, tailored for you
By capturing detailed data points from the damaged area, we  
craft a precise digital map that guides our customized repair process. This approach aims for an optimal fit and restoration  
with each procedure.
Efficient and effective custom 
solutions
With our cutting-edge technology, we perform comprehensive 
analyses to deliver repairs customized to address distinct 
 challenges. This leads to reduced repair durations and improved 
efficiency, minimizing your downtime and facilitating a swift  
return to full functionality.

Page 7
Laser Scanning for Digital RepairsIn-field scanning
To provide unparalleled service, we can conduct on-site scanning, when necessary, to 
seamlessly bridge the gap between work conducted at your site locations and the intricate processes carried out in our SE service centers.
Optimized productivity
By integrating 3D laser scanning, we drastically cut down the duration needed to gather detailed data on a site. This boost in efficiency not only saves significant time but also reduces costs asso-ciated with shipping, materials, and labor.
Enhanced safety
Field service personnel can collect data from a safe distance, minimizing the need to access hazardous or hard-to-reach areas directly. This capability is particularly beneficial in locations where safety concerns are paramount.

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of IndustrySiemens promenade 991058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry4400 N Alafaya TrailOrlando, FL 32826, USA
For more information, please visit our website: 
https://www.siemens-energy.com/compressionrepairs
© Siemens Energy 2024Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains 
general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owner.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.