Heat generation makes up approximately two-thirds of 
industrial energy consumption and is a major contributor to direct CO
2 emissions from process 
industry.1 Today, most of the heat produced in 
process facilities occurs through the combustion of fossil fuels (i.e. in gas or oil-fired boilers). Often, this heat is then converted 
into low, medium or high-pressure steam.
Decarbonising industrial heat and steam production will play 
a key role in achieving established climate targets and driving a 
successful energy transition. Significant opportunities exist to reduce industry reliance on fossil-fuel-based heat through waste 
heat recovery. By some estimates, as much as 50% of the energy 
consumed in industrial processes ends up as waste heat.
2 
High-temperature heat pumps (HTHPs), in combination 
with steam compression and mechanical vapour 
recompression (MVR) cycles, both represent sustainable 
methods of generating useable steam from waste heat. This is because they solely require electricity for input energy. These technologies can achieve the steam temperatures and pressures required by many processes across the downstream 
oil and gas, chemicals, and pulp and paper industries, opening 
new pathways for decarbonisation.
Combining HTHPs with steam 
compression
Heat pumps are a highly efficient technology for recovering 
waste heat and have been in use since the mid-19th century. 
They have gained significant traction in recent years as pressure to reduce emissions has increased.
The primary advantage of heat pumps is that the only 
required energy input is electricity, meaning that heat generation can be emissions-free if the power comes from a green source. Whilst electric boilers and heaters offer this same advantage, heat pumps can be up to 5 times more efficient because most 
of their energy requirement is provided by the waste heat.  
Heat pumps are typically classified as either 
low-temperature or high-temperature. Most of the installed 
base of heat pumps today are the former, and are designed for 
Reprinted from September 2023HYDROCARBON 
ENGINEERING
Lukas Biyikli, Siemens Energy, 
Germany, considers how it is possible 
to decarbonise industrial process heat 
through steam compression.
Reprinted from September 2023HYDROCARBON 
ENGINEERINGtemperatures up to 100°C. They are commonly found in district 
heating applications. On the other hand, HTHPs are becoming more prevalent for steam generation in industrial facilities. 
Depending on the refrigerant used, simple HTHP cycles, 
without steam compression, are usually limited to ~150°C in their maximum outlet temperature, and therefore a maximum steam pressure of 5 bara. The higher the temperature that the refrigerant reaches, the more the width of the two-phase region 
is reduced. This is due to the temperature approaching the 
critical point. As a result, there is less latent heat recoverable and useable in the condenser, reducing the coefficient of performance (COP) and benefit of the heat pump system. This is 
why the system should be designed with sufficient distance to 
the critical temperature of the refrigerant.
Furthermore, synthetic refrigerants lose stability when 
operated continuously at temperatures between 150 - 200°C. As requirements for process steam often lie above 150°C and 5 bara, 
in many cases a steam compressor will be required downstream 
of the heat pump system.   Steam compression technology 
In the past, steam compression applications required relatively small pressure ratios, which could be handled by single-stage compressors/blowers. However, many of today’s industrial heat 
applications require multi-stage compression. 
The technology that Siemens Energy applies for steam 
compression is integrally geared compressors (IGCs) (Figure 1). 
Although some operators view IGCs as a novel technology, these machines have accumulated millions of hours of 
uninterrupted service in a broad range of industrial applications. 
Siemens Energy developed the first IGC in 1948 (formally named the VK).
IGCs are centrifugal compressors with a bull gear that can 
drive as many as four pinion shafts (with one or two impellers each). This allows each impeller to turn with its optimal velocity and frequency for maximum efficiency. Furthermore, each impeller sits in its own volute casing, which allows the process gas to exit the machine between the compression stages. Doing 
so enables intercooling after each stage, which is important for 
Reprinted from September 2023HYDROCARBON 
ENGINEERINGminimising power consumption. It is also critical for preventing 
temperatures from exceeding the maximum allowable limits of the compressor, which may necessitate the use of more 
expensive materials.
Siemens Energy manufactures IGCs that can handle up to 
1.2 million m
3/h in one compression stage, with impeller 
diameters up to 2 m. Flow rates as high as 2.4 million m3/h are achievable in a double-floating design, where the volume flow 
at the inlet of the compressor is distributed to two parallel stages/impellers. 
Because each impeller sits in its own casing, each 
compression stage is independent, enabling the application of combined refrigerant/steam compressors (when the steam compressor is applied downstream of a heat pump).
 In a combined configuration, two different process 
gases – in this case the refrigerant for the heat pump and the 
steam – are compressed within the same machine, as shown in 
Figure 2.  Any number of refrigerant and steam stage counts are possible. For example, four stages/impellers can be used for the refrigerant and four stages for the steam, as long as a total of eight stages is not exceeded. This reduces the number of 
compressor trains required for such an application from two to 
one, which saves approximately 20 - 30% on CAPEX for the compression equipment.
The cooling in a steam compressor is not done by typical 
water or fin/fan coolers but instead by water injection into the process gas piping between the stages. The injected water is then evaporated by taking heat from the steam, as shown in Figure 3.
Due to the high latent heat requirement for water 
evaporation, the steam is cooled significantly and 100% of the compression heat, which is typically a byproduct, is utilised for additional steam production. The desired cooling temperature can be controlled by the amount of water injected (i.e. the more water that is injected, the more cooling is achieved).
By using HTHPs with subsequent steam compression, 
temperatures up to 300°C and pressures up to 60 bara are achievable. Even higher temperatures are possible through the installation of a small electric superheater downstream of the steam compressor. As previously stated, these levels are well 
within the range of what is required by many processes across 
the oil and gas, chemical, and pulp and paper industries, which have traditionally relied on fossil fuel burning for heat/steam production. 
Mechanical vapour recompression (MVR) 
cycle
MVR cycles provide an alternative to classical heat pumps for 
recovering waste heat in 
order to produce low, 
medium or high-pressure 
steam. 
With MVR cycles, 
thermal energy from a mid or low-temperature 
waste stream is used to 
directly evaporate feedwater. The steam is then compressed to the 
required temperature 
and pressure level of the process. The entire latent heat for evaporation is provided by the 
free-of-charge waste 
heat, and only the sensible heat, which is Figure 1.  An integrally geared compressor (IGC) with 
independent volute casings.
Figure 2.  Combined refrigerant/steam compressor.

Reprinted from September 2023HYDROCARBON 
ENGINEERINGsignificantly lower than the latent/evaporation heat, is 
provided in the form of compression.
In nearly all cases, the waste heat source has a 
temperature below 100°C, which means that the water needs to be evaporated at sub-atmospheric pressure. While this requires additional considerations when it comes to equipment design (e.g. around the sealing system so that no ambient air is sucked in), these challenges can be solved with 
Siemens Energy’s existing technology.
Compared to heat pumps, the MVR cycle does not require 
refrigerant. This is beneficial, as per- and polyfluoroalkyl 
substances (PFAS) restrictions are being considered in the EU 
for synthetic refrigerants. Natural refrigerants, on the other 
hand, are often toxic (e.g. NH
3) or hydrocarbons (e.g. pentane), 
which require additional considerations, including explosion protection. In many cases, CAPEX and footprint can also be 
reduced relative to heat pumps by eliminating the need for an 
expansion valve, the flash tank, the refrigerant condenser, and some ancillary piping.
Figure 4 shows an MVR cycle example where 68 thermal 
megawatt (MWth) of waste heat at 75°C can be utilised to 
produce 100 MWth of steam at 6 bar and 180°C. The resulting 
system has a COP > 3. In this application, the water is evaporated at 0.15 bara 
and then compressed in a steam compressor. Although the 
density of the sub-atmospheric steam is very low (at only 
0.1 kg/m
3), the entire volumetric flow can still be handled 
within one Siemens Energy IGC machine. The COP of the system is similar to that of a comparable heat pump system, 
with the added benefit of reduced CAPEX due to the 
elimination of the aforementioned components.
COP can be increased and CAPEX lowered further if the 
heat source temperature is increased. In another example, where the waste heat source is ~105°C and the steam is 
required at 3 bara, a COP > 7 can be achieved. In this case, the 
steam for the MVR cycle was able to be produced at 0.65 bara, leading to a higher density and, therefore, a lower volumetric flow compared to the previous example with 
0.15 bara.
Conclusion
Both heat pump and MVR cycles represent sustainable and 
efficient technologies for waste heat recovery. The choice of which to employ is largely dependent on the unique 
requirements of the process or facility.   
The MVR cycle is typically more advantageous for heat 
sources with higher temperatures, as this results in 
an increase in steam evaporation temperature and pressure, which leads to a higher COP and a 
smaller system footprint through a reduction in 
volume flow. As the heat source temperature decreases, heat pumps become more economical due to a rising steam volumetric flow within a 
respective MVR cycle, which will increase the size 
and cost of the system. Furthermore, at a certain point, the steam pressure becomes excessively low, so that, for example, sealing can become too challenging, making the heat pump a better 
option. 
Ultimately, there is no defined temperature 
threshold where one technology is always more 
advantageous than the other. Selection requires consideration of many different variables. 
Siemens Energy provides an in-depth evaluation of both options to determine the optimal cycle configuration, depending on the customer’s 
requirements with respect to CAPEX, OPEX, footprint, lead time, 
complexity and environmental and 
safety aspects. 
References
1. WEST, K., and BELLEVRAT, E., ‘Clean 
and efficient heat for industry’,  International Energy Agency (IEA), (23 January 2018), https://www.
iea.org/commentaries/clean-and-
efficient-heat-for-industry.
2. ‘Waste Heat Recovery Resource’, US Department of Energy (DOE), (24 January 2017), https://www.energy.gov/eere/amo/
articles/waste-heat-recovery-
resource-page#:~:text=It%20is%20estimated%20that%20between,equipment%20surfaces%20and%20heated%20products.Figure 3.  Steam cooling by water injection.
Figure 4.  Mechanical vapour recompression (MVR) cycle.