Our innovative Turbo Heater technology is specifically 
designed to deliver high-temperature process heat at industrial scale without combustion of fossil fuels. This is achieved through a unique method that utilizes supersonic gas dynamics and shock waves to produce direct heating of gas mixtures. A novel approach to the electrification of high-grade process heat is introduced, decoupled from the physical limitations of heat transfer in conventional methods.
The Turbo Heater combines these features with the 
outstanding energy density of axial turbomachinery,  
and the high temperature capability of using materials already well known and proven in service in Siemens  
Energy‘s gas turbine products.
The result is a solution which is ready to scale and  
highly relevant to address the challenge of many  
hard-to-decarbonize industries.Key BenefitsGHG Emissions: Rotating machinery can utilize clean  
energy (e.g. electric motor drive).
Direct Heating: Eliminate losses, fouling and leaks in heat 
exchangers for efficient (> 95%) heating of process flow.Process Optimization:  
•
  V
ery uniform temperature distribution (no hot spots)  
and precise temperature control
•
  Pr
ovide heat and flow in a single device, without separate 
circulation blower
•
 No combus
tion products added
•
  N
ear-instantaneous fluid heating simplifies downstream 
process control 
•
  Can be im
plemented in hybrid configurations with fuel-fired 
backup
Size: Compact, energy-dense turbomachinery, heat input not constrained by exchanger surface area.
Scale-up: Technology inherently capable of high throughput, 
2x flow << 2x size.siemens-energy.comDecarbonize  
industrial processes 
with the Turbo Heater
Inherently capable of large-megawatt 
scale and high temperature (1000 °C)
Direct heating of gas mixtures   
via fluid momentum (shock wave)Eliminate fuel burning and decouple  
from rate-limited heat transfer
Potential use in combination with existing  
fuel-fired systems for progressive phase-out
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transformation of Industry  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of furhter  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owner.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Decarbonize energy- 
intensive industrial processes via novel-class Turbomachinery
*  In a par allel development, Siemens Energy has partnered with Technip 
Energies to jointly develop the Rotating Olefins Cracker (ROC), which applies the principle of shock wave heating turbomachinery to the steam cracking process to produce olefins such as ethylene.Incremental technology maturation
•
 Succes
sful 1.6 MW demo exceeding 700 °C
•
 Higher t
emperature in development (> 1000 °C)
•
  Inher
ently scalable to double-digit megawatt and higher
•
  Built wit
h materials and know-how already proven in 
Siemens Energy's Compression and Gas Turbine products
How the Turbo Heater works
Rotating stages 
accelerate flow to supersonic  
Mechanical work  
 Kinetic energyStatic diffuser decelerates 
flow back to subsonic (shock 
wave)  
Kinetic energy  
 Thermal energy
 
 
 Process Flow
Driver
(e.g. electric motor)
Iron 
& SteelCement /
MineralsPulp &
Paper Oil & Gas Petrochem* 