TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Volume 8, Issue 2  |  2021 10    INTERVIEW
The energy market is rapidly 
evolving with the energy 
transition as one of the most 
fundamental changes: What 
challenges does this rapidly 
changing energy landscape 
pose for customers?
The energy transition poses big challenges 
to all of us – the authorities and govern -
ments, our customers, and also the manu -
facturers of energy equipment. T ransmis -
sion and Distribution System Operators 
(TSOs and DSOs), as well as our industry 
and infrastructure customers, are faced 
with rising global demand for energy and 
three radical changes at the same time:
1. Decarbonization: worldwide increas -
ing focus on the environment (strong 
increase in renewable energy genera-
tion, sustainable power distribution 
with lower losses, a stronger focus on 
electrical transportation);
2. Decentralization: embraced system 
complexity by decentralized energy 
sources and prosumers;
3. Digitalization: adopting digital solu -
tions to improve asset performance 
and grid management.Consequently, our customers are facing 
the challenge of keeping the grid con -
nection resilient and reliable during the 
energy transition while also focusing on 
increasing sustainability and exploiting 
opportunities of new technologies and 
digitalization. In addition, there is an in -
creasing focus on localization, especially 
in the wind industry.
How do you address these 
challenges and customer 
needs at Siemens Energy 
distribution transformers?
At Siemens Energy, we support our cus -
tomers from renewables business, in -
dustry business, power distribution and 
transportation not only with the latest 
innovations, we also provide expertise in 
how to implement the new technologies 
and which products and solutions would 
be most favorable for a specific challenge.  
With our global production network, we 
are able to serve our customers global -
ly with the same highest standards and 
quality. 
W e offer a complete portfolio of stan -
dardized and customized low-loss dry-type distribution transformers and 
fluid-immersed distribution transform -
ers. Both technologies have their specific 
strengths and application fields. Our 
GEAFOL® dry-type transformers show 
excellent electrical, mechanical, and 
thermal characteristics, and with epoxy 
resin insulation, they are especially 
eco-friendly and fire-resistant. They are 
mainly used in onshore wind turbines, 
industrial applications close to the load 
centers, data centers, modern buildings, 
and ships. TILO ELSE
Siemens Energy’s Vice President for 
Distribution Transformers
Tilo Else is Siemens Energy’s Vice President for Distribution Transform -
ers, responsible for the company’s global dry-type and fluid-immersed 
distribution transformer and traction transformer businesses
Our GEAFOL® dry-type transformers show 
excellent electrical, mechanical, and ther -
mal characteristics, and with epoxy resin 
insulation, they are especially eco-friendly 
and fire-resistant
Tilo Else is Siemens Energy’s Vice 
President for Distribution Transform -
ers, responsible for the company’s 
global dry-type and fluid-immersed 
distribution transformer and traction 
transformer businesses. He earned 
his diploma for Business Administra -
tion at the University of Leipzig, Ger -
many, and spend some time in Sili -
con Valley. He started his career at 
Siemens as a Strategy Consultant in 
2000. For more than 15 years, he has 
been working for the Energy business 
at Siemens, mainly Transformers and 
Medium Voltage Products & Systems. 
During this time, he has built up an 
impressive track record in running 
and improving operational business 
for more than a decade on the fac -
tory and business segment level. He 
also headed several central func -
tions such as Group Strategy, Central 
Transformer Sales commercially, and 
Transformer License Department.
www.transformers-magazine.com   11         
Our fluid-immersed distribution trans -
formers FITformer®, with their compact 
design and high efficiency, are used very 
broadly. W e offer very environmentally 
friendly cooling and insulation systems 
using biodegradable fluids such as syn -
thetic ester or natural ester. Our low-loss 
designs using amorphous cores and other 
high-tech core materials are supporting 
the decarbonization demand further -
more. With a voltage range of up to 66 kV , 
they are the perfect choice for new wind offshore applications. Specifically, for our 
rail operators and train manufacturers 
worldwide, we also provide reliable and 
flexible traction transformers which in -
crease train efficiency and performance 
and handle the highest ratings in a mini -
mum of available space. Both GEAFOL® 
and FITformer® distribution transformers 
are nearly maintenance-free, have proven 
the highest reliability and of course,  they 
come as Sensformer® with the latest digi -
talization features.For every application area, we can of -
fer our customers a perfect distribution 
transformer with a special focus on sus -
tainability and the highest performance 
supported by digitalization. All our trans -
formers do already comply with Tier II of 
the European EcoDesign Directive for in -
creased energy efficiency that needs to be 
applied from 1 July 2021 onward.
What role does co-creation 
play in this context?
A lot of our products, especially for DSOs, 
are highly standardized and are produced 
in large quantities. Other distribution 
transformers, for example, for data cen -
ters, are built according to customer speci-
fications. For both transformer types, 
co-creation does not play an important 
role. But this is very different for indus -
try customers, wind applications, and 
traction transformers, where co-creation 
plays a very important role. For industry, 
the distribution transformers need to be 
specifically designed to fit customer re -
quirements – frequently in co-creation 
with the customer. The same is true for 
wind applications where the transformers 
need to perfectly match the turbine me -
chanical and technical requirements. 
We see wind energy tech-
nologies developing extremely 
fast with ever-larger turbines 
under development and 66 kV 
as a new standard for offshore 
wind farm array – How do you 
see Siemens Energy’s wind 
distribution transformers 
in this evolving market? 
How do you make sure your 
transformers stay relevant to 
next-generation wind farms?
W e are currently a leading transformer 
supplier for the offshore wind industry, 
and we intend to keep this position. W e 
know this is only possible with state-of-
the-art technologies and very close co -
operation with the leading wind offshore 
turbine OEMs. With our new 66 kV low-
loss fluid-immersed transformer, we set 
a new standard – for efficiency (already 
in line with the new EcoDesign Tier II 
directive that does not even have to be 
applied to wind offshore applications), 
and also for sustainability with the bio -
degradable ester insulation. But we are With our new 66 kV low-loss fluid-immersed 
transformer, we set a new standard for effi-
ciency and also for sustainability with a bio-
degradable ester insulation
12    TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Volume 8, Issue 2  |  2021INTERVIEW
far from resting and are already working 
with the next customer to develop the 
most efficient, reliable, and sustainable 
distribution transformer for his specific 
wind offshore turbine.
T o pool all our ideas and efforts for prod -
uct and process innovations, we set up 
specific innovation laboratories that drive 
innovations for distribution transformers 
– in terms of increasing customer value, 
experimenting with digitalization, and in 
terms of improving our production pro -
cesses. However, our twelve factories play 
a very important role in staying close to 
our customers and implementing innova -
tions and local requirements. 
How has digitalization shifted 
the focus of the distribution 
transformer market?
Digitalization is widely talked about in 
the Energy Sector nowadays. Until we 
launched Sensformer® in 2018, there was 
no transformer available with digital fea -
tures – we were the frontrunner, and we 
are shaping the market also today with 
our digital innovations. But the focus 
of our customers still is on the physical 
product and its performance. Howev -
er, the digital features of transformers 
start to play a role in the selling process. 
Our customers want to understand how 
digitalization can help to improve asset 
performance and manage the increas -
ing complexity of the power grids. In 
this respect, our customers count on 
our experience and value our consul -
tancy services. W e offer our customers 
a complete digitalization package from 
sensors through secured cloud connec -
tion to apps or even integration of the 
operational data and analytics into the 
customer’ s IT environment.
What is the value-add for 
customers of digitized 
distribution transformers?
First of all, the digitalization of transform -
ers adds transparency to the current oper -
ation status. Per default, all Sensformers 
are equipped with direct measurement 
of oil level, top oil temperature, low volt -
age winding current, and GPS location. 
Near real-time data are available anytime 
and anywhere. Smart data analytics create 
great customer value, e.g.:• Increased reliability, safety, and pro -
ductivity by early detection of potential 
problems,
• Decreased CAPEX and OPEX by pre -
ventive asset management, optimiza -
tion of service scheduling and avoiding 
of unplanned outages,
• Improved climate impact by preventive 
detection of critical situations such as 
oil leakages.
For large distribution transformers, we 
already offer advanced features like a load 
management app and aging prediction. 
This allows customers to run the distri -
bution transformers under controlled 
overload conditions without aging im -
plications for a specific time period – in -
creasing performance and profit accord -
ing to business targets. Besides, we offer 
our customers specific digitalization solu -
tions, including additional sensors and 
advanced analytics.To what extent has digi tali-
zation and the industry 4.0 
changed the manufacturing 
of transformers at the 
Siemens Energy factories?
The digitalization level in our factories is 
not as high as in other industries as there 
is still a lot of specialized manual work 
required – e.g., for transformer assembly. 
Nevertheless, I strongly believe digitali -
zation and automation are key levers to 
drive efficiency. There is a lot of activities 
we are driving: Our customers are able 
to visit our factories virtually and attend 
factory acceptance test virtually. By us -
ing plant simulation software, we are 
able to discuss with our customers our 
production capabilities and simulate and 
optimize the production flow. W e are in -
vesting in production equipment with 
higher automation grade and connecting 
Per default, all Sensformers are equipped 
with direct measurement of oil level, top oil 
temperature, low voltage winding current, 
and GPS location
GEAFOL® dry-type transformer from Siemens Energy
www.transformers-magazine.com   13         
key production equipment to an indus -
try cloud to online monitor, predict and 
further optimize process times. But not 
only production processes are subject to 
automation and digitalization. Also, in the 
office area, RPA ’ s (Robot Process Automa -
tion) are taking over repetitive processes, 
and intelligent dashboards are replacing 
the old rather manual reporting systems.
In a few months, we will open our new dis -
tribution transformer factory in Guang -
zhou, China, that will apply the highest 
industry 4.0 standards. Already before the 
construction of the new factory started, 
an expert team evaluated new production 
methods and digitalization potentials. Digital plant simulation was applied to 
confirm new methods and to optimize the 
production lines and the overall factory 
layout for distribution transformers.
What challenges have come 
up in the market and in 
your operations due to the 
pandemic? How are you 
handling these? 
The biggest challenge during the ongoing 
pandemic is, of course, keeping our staff  
safe and healthy while the factories are up 
and running. A lot of our people are work -
ing in front of the computer and can work from the home office. For them, the pan -
demic really accelerated the work digitali -
zation, and the rapid transition was man -
aged very well by our IT staff. But factory 
workers cannot stay at home. T o make 
work safe for them, we needed to keep in 
mind the local regulations in every loca -
tion, and we worked out specific hygiene 
concepts for every factory to make sure to 
keep the distance between the people.
Another challenge was, of course, the 
supply chain management. Our suppli -
ers had the same problems we had, and 
some supplier factories were even shut 
down for a period of time. W e needed to 
be very flexible and source from different 
locations or even different vendors. With -
in the last year, we really benefited from 
our global factory network and our global 
supply base. W e were able to shift projects 
or partial projects between our factories in 
different parts of the world.
A third challenge was minimizing the 
contact also with customers. Digitaliza -
tion helped a lot. For example, we were 
able to implement virtual factory tours 
and offer our customers to virtually attend 
factory acceptance tests.
I am very proud of our people. T ogether, 
we achieved a lot in this last very challeng -
ing year. Despite the pandemic, we were 
able to finalize almost every project in 
time by supporting each other.
What is your vision of the 
distribution transformer 
industry in the next 10 years? 
What will be market and 
technology drivers, and what 
are the opportunities for the 
response to these drivers?
W e expect an ongoing strong increase in 
renewable energy generation (wind and 
solar). More and more countries will join 
the transition to a more sustainable ener -
gy supply. In some countries, wind farm 
operators already start to upgrade existing 
turbines with higher power ratings and 
higher efficiency. This will lead to a steady 
demand for distribution transformers in 
the next years – especially in the field of re -
newable integration. Besides, the current 
trend towards sustainable products will 
continue, and customers will be especial -
ly interested in dry-type and ester-filled 
transformers with lower losses. At the Together, we achieved a lot in this last very 
challenging year. Despite the pandemic, we 
were able to finalize almost every project in 
time by supporting each other
Fluid-immersed FITformer® from Siemens Energy 
14    TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Volume 8, Issue 2  |  2021INTERVIEW
At Siemens Energy, we are constantly adapt -
ing our portfolio and production footprint to 
customer needs and are always at the edge 
of innovation, keeping in mind specific local 
requirements
same time, digitalization will accelerate 
with an even greater value for customers.
The trends toward decarbonization, de -
centralization, and digitalization will differ 
in intensity between different parts of the 
world. While Europe and North America 
are challenged by the energy transition and 
aging equipment, parts of Asia, Africa, the 
Middle East, and Latin America are still 
faced growing energy demand and mod -
ernizing grid infrastructure.
Within the worldwide distribution grid 
structures, we will see a trend to more 
resilience to increase availability and reli -ability of the grids (e.g., fire protection in 
rural areas). Also, in this regard, digitali -
zation will play an important role in sup -
porting the protection, maintenance, and 
optimization of operation.At Siemens Energy, we are constantly 
adapting our portfolio and production 
footprint to customer needs and are al -
ways at the edge of innovation, keeping 
in mind specific local requirements.
FITformer® WIND in the nacelle of an offshore wind turbineTraction transformer from Siemens Energy
www.transformers-magazine.com
  15         