GEAFOL cast-resin transformers l Environmentally friendly, robust, and highly efficient
© 2020 Siemens Energy Page 1
siemens-energy.com siemens-energy.comEnvironmentally 
friendly, robust, and 
highly efficient
GEAFOL cast-resin transformers for wind turbine 
generators
GEAFOL cast-resin transformers l Environmentally friendly, robust, and highly efficient
© 2020 Siemens Energy Page 2Immune to vibrations, wind and weather,
resistant to salt water, environmentally
compatible and vibration-proof: GEAFOL cast-
resin transformers for wind turbine
generators and offshore wind farms
Cast-resin transformers are mostly used where electricity
has to be transformed from the medium-voltage level
down to low-voltage, or to another grid voltage. Transform-
ers destined for this function are generally installed close
to electrical loads and therefore almost invariably in imme-
diate proximity to people. They must consequently be par-
ticularly safe and highly reliable in operation.
Such transformers are found in high-rise buildings, hospi-
tals, data centers, subway stations or on ships and oil pro-
duction platforms, as well as in paper mills, rolling mills,
airports or other locations requiring substantial amounts of
power. They are often also installed very close to passers-
by and residential areas, separated from the environment
only by the stone wall of a building or a metal enclosure.
Safety is therefore of utmost priority for everyone con-
cerned.
Wherever distribution transformers have to be installed in
areas frequented by people, cast-resin transformers are
the preferred option because this particular design ensures
users a high level of safety in operation while also offering
excellent electrical, mechanical and thermal properties.
Transformers with these features require little in the way
of maintenance and ensure a high level of safety in terms
of behavior in fire. The GEAFOL® cast-resin transformers –
a development from the Siemens manufacturing plant in
Kirchheim – are reliable in operation, environmentally
compatible, flame-retardant, self-extinguishing and pro-
duce no toxic gases.
These features are the reason why significantly more than
150,000 of these transformers are in service around the
world today, ranging from 50 kVA to approx. 50 MVA and
with voltages up to 52 kV, and also explains why licenses
were given worldwide to produce GEAFOL transformers.
Predestined for operation in wind turbine
generators
All the above attributes also explain why cast-resin trans-
formers from Siemens are so well suited for use in wind
turbine generators and offshore wind farms. Wind turbine
generators subject transformers to much greater mechani-
cal, electrical and thermal stresses than transformers in-
stalled in standardized secondary unit substations. Accessi-
bility is also frequently restricted, which means very highdemands on design, product quality and safety. Cast-resin
transformers from Siemens Energy for use in wind turbines
are therefore supplied in a mechanically reinforced design,
which – when installed in the nacelle – can withstand the
strong vibrations without difficulty. These transformers
are also painted with a special coating to protect them
from the aggressive, salt-laden marine atmosphere. The in-
sulation used on cast-resin transformers is an environmen-
tally sustainable mixture of epoxy resin and quartz powder,
which does not produce any toxic gases even under expo-
sure to arcing. Cast-resin transformers are classified accord-
ing to verified environmental, climate and fire classes. GEA-
FOL transformers satisfy environmental class E3, climate
class C3 and fire class F1 and so conform to the
highest requirements1).
These results are also validated by numerous tests per-
formed by Siemens in collaboration with noted manufac-
turers of wind turbine generators. These tests are con-
ducted as part of an extensive continuously running pro-
gram specially designed to test the cast-resin transformers
for vibration resistance, lighting impulse withstand capabil-
ity and short-circuit strength. The results also once again
confirm that GEAFOL transformers fulfil the high, by the
customers requested, environmental standards and climate
classes defined in standard IEC 60076-11. Testing is carried
out in well-known European institutes such as KEMA in the
Netherlands or IABG in Munich, Germany.
Where high mechanical stresses are encountered, GEAFOL cast-resin
transformers of reinforced design are used.
This example shows a transformer being used in the nacelle of a wind
turbine, where it must reliably withstand constant vibrations.
GEAFOL cast-resin transformers
1) Additional classes upon request
GEAFOL cast-resin transformers l Environmentally friendly, robust, and highly efficient
© 2020 Siemens Energy Page 3The successful tests for mechanical resistance to operation-
ally induced vibrations and transportation stresses exposed
the transformer to accelerations of more than twice gravi-
tational in all three coordinates.
Cast-resin transformers often have a smaller footprint than
equivalent liquid-filled or gas-insulated transformers and
they are very flexible with respect to the position of the
high-voltage/low-voltage terminals. No extra safety precau-
tions, e.g. oil trough, are necessary. Designs with reduced
no-load and short-circuit losses, e. g. considering the re-
quirements of the Eco-Design Directive in the EU, increase
transformer efficiency and so reduce operating costs.
Moreover, epoxy resin-insulated transformers are practi-
cally maintenance-free – crucial criteria for offshore wind
parks.
Cast-resin transformers in wind turbine generators are used
to step up the voltage supplied by the nacelle-mounted
generator to the correct level for feeding into the medium-
voltage network. Transformers for wind turbine generators
are usually designed for operating voltages on the me-
dium-voltage level of up to 40,5 kV respectively up to
72,5 kV for higher ratings, mainly used for offshore instal-
lations.
Wind turbine generators make tremendous demands on transformers
in terms of electrical and mechanical stressing and consequently also
in safety and quality terms. Cast-resin transformers from Siemens En-
ergy for use in wind turbines are therefore supplied mechanically rein-
forced to ensure vibration-resistant installation in the nacelle.Further developments afoot
Work on developing cast-resin transformers at Siemens En-
ergy never ceases. Principal Key Expert Bernd Hofmann at
the Kirchheim/ Teck factory quotes data sheets which show
that the weight of transformers has been reduced by more
than one third over the last decades (introduction 1966)
alone without any reduction in power rating or any adverse
effects on operating safety and reliability. Especially the lat-
est innovation of the GEAFOL cast-resin transformer - the
GEAFOL Neo with additional special insulation features -
represents an optimal combination of performance, small
dimensions, low weight and high cost-efficiency. But devel-
opments are going beyond mere weight reduction. Im-
portant changes have also taken place in the inside of
transformers. A great deal has happened here. Modern
cast-resin transformers no longer feature generally copper
windings. Over the years, a pioneering technology has
been developed using aluminum foil insulated with high-
grade plastic film. Reminiscent of the way capacitors are
manufactured, this technology has prevailed because the
foil winding combines a simple technique with high electri-
cal safety. The insulation is exposed to much lower electri-
cal stress than in other types of winding.
Whereas turn-to-turn voltages in a conventional round-wire
winding can add up to twice the interlayer voltage, the in-
terlayer voltage of a foil winding never exceeds the single
voltage per turn because all layers uniquely consist of a sin-
gle winding which ensures excellent power- frequency
voltage and impulse voltage strength.
But why aluminum? The coefficients of expansion of alumi-
num are very similar to those of the Siemens recipes for
casting resin and result in only minimal mechanical stresses
particularly in connection with load-change-induced tem-
perature fluctuations and the associated dimensional
changes. Moreover, efficiency calculations based on a ho-
listic evaluation of conductivity, material price, specific
weight and loss balance demonstrated that the aluminum
conductor invariably offers advantages.
Considerable know-how and experience
needed
Windings are fabricated using modern strip winding
machines which enable several high-voltage and low-volt-
age phase windings to be produced in one shift. Once the
primary and secondary-side windings have been com-
pleted, the coils are casted respectively sealed with a spe-
cial resin mixture. The cast epoxy resin used to encapsulate
the high-voltage coils is applied under vacuum and at high
temperature. This process prevents harmful gas inclusions.
Special vacuum pumps generate the necessary vacuum for
this process in the casting kettle.
This process also requires expertise and experience if the
desired objective is to be achieved. Principal Key Expert
Hofmann knows that despite good pumps, controlling the

GEAFOL cast-resin transformers l Environmentally friendly, robust, and highly efficient
© 2020 Siemens Energy Page 4casting process is just as important for void-free casting. 
Under less than one millibar of pressure, a six cubic meter-
capacity casting chamber still contains around six liters of 
its original 6000-liter air content. This residual air is 
enough to make life difficult for those in charge. That’s why 
expertise in casting is crucial.
One of the secrets is that vacuum conditions in the casting 
chamber must be the same as or “poorer” than in the for-
mulating area. Any residual air remains in the compound 
despite the high-vacuum conditions, and undesired bub-
bles are unable to form.
The quality of the encapsulation in conjunction with the 
electrical advantages of the foil winding is a crucial factor 
for ensuring freedom from partial discharges. Since this  
critical criterion applies throughout the life of cast-resin 
transformers, Siemens in Kirchheim tests every GEAFOL 
transformer at twice the rated voltage and stipulates much 
more stringent release criteria for the permitted partial-dis-
charge inception level than those specified in European 
and international standards.
The core is comprised of grain-oriented, cold-rolled electric 
sheet steel whose thickness and layering are a function  
of requirements mainly related to no-load losses and noise. 
The Kirchheim engineers manufacture the transformer 
cores using several automatic core winding machines – the 
most modern of their kind.Higher power ratings required
Like rolling mills or high-tech factories, larger wind turbine 
generators increasingly require dry-type transformers with 
higher ratings. Reasons for this are that cast-resin trans-
formers ensure security of supply because they are highly 
reliable in operation and they are also extremely efficient, 
so helping to reduce operating costs (OPEX). 
Higher power ratings in the case of cast-resin transformers 
generally also mean higher voltages and currents and con-
sequently bigger heat loss. The development engineers in 
the Swabian town Kirchheim/Teck have devised a solution 
to the continuous problem of heat. For a long time now 
they have been using special cooling ducts for transformers 
rated above 630 kVA. However, these have previously only 
been used in conjunction with the low-voltage winding and 
have so far never featured in the fully encapsulated high-
voltage winding.
To achieve very high MVA ratings, however, additional  
cooling ducts have to be incorporated both on the high- 
voltage side and inside the core.
As already mentioned, encapsulating the transformers gen-
erally calls for a great deal of expertise and experience.  
To ultimately permit production of a first-class, reliable 
cast-resin transformer with optimum electrical properties it 
was ultimately also necessary to modify the encapsulation 
process for transformers designed to incorporate a cooling 
duct in the high-voltage winding, and several hurdles had 
to be overcome with regard to optimizing the manufactur-
ing process. The design of powerful cast-resin transformers 
is based on the experience of Siemens design and develop-
ment specialists, accumulated over many decades and the 
use of high-tech design analysis tools and production 
equipment. Principal Key Expert Bernd Hofmann and his 
skilled Team have now got to grips with the design and the 
global casting process for GEAFOL transformers rated for 
up to about 50 MVA. The whole concept is running so 
smoothly now that the electrical properties of the resin in-
sulation can be described as optimum. In the words of 
Bernd Hofmann: “The quality of the encapsulation in con-
junction with the electrical advantages of the foil winding 
is crucial to ensure freedom from partial discharges – at 
least up to twice the rated voltage. Ultimately, it is the opti-
mized combination of aluminum foil and strip windings 
and the specially coordinated cast-resin insulation that 
makes GEAFOL transformers reliable, safe, flame-retardant, 
self-extinguishing, practically maintenance-free and non-
toxic.” 
The largest cast-resin transformers that have been built in 
Kirchheim to date are rated at 40 MVA (AN) and 50 MVA 
have already been designed. Also, a number of 23 MVA 
GEAFOL transformers are providing reliable service in a 
power plant in Hamburg.
Using vacuum switches with GEAFOL 
transformers 
Contrary to standard distribution networks, the 
transformers installed in wind turbines will be 
switched off and on at MV side more frequently, 
which results in additional stress of the insula-
tion. Switches must control the switching of 
transformers reliably and safely, with no need 
for overvoltage protection.
An important parameter in transformers is the 
magnetization current, one of the "small induc-
tive currents". Interrupting these currents natu-
rally creates marked transients but no unaccept-
ably high switching overvoltages that would 
pose a threat to connected distribution trans-
formers are permitted.
Extensive trials using a combination of Siemens 
GEAFOL transformers and vacuum switches 
have proven that the GEAFOL medium-voltage 
windings can handle switching overvoltages 
with no difficulty - providing further proof of 
their high product quality and operational 
safety.
GEAFOL cast-resin transformers l Environmentally friendly, robust, and highly efficient
© 2020 Siemens Energy Page 5
 
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transmission
Freyeslebenstr. 1
91058 Erlangen
Germany
Special reprint from
Wind-Kraft & Natürliche Energien Journal 07 
Author:
Heinz Raithel
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. For the U.S. published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc
Transmission
4601 Six Forks Road 
Raleigh, NC 27609
USA 