1
Operating Manual for 
Siemens Energy Cast-resin Dry 
Type Distribution Transformer
www.siemens-energy.cn
 
2
01 Applicability 1
02 Reference Standards 1
03 Safety Guideline 2
04 Product Structure 4
05 Handling 7
06 Installation 12
07 Commissioning 18
08 Operation 21
09 Maintenance 23
10 Appendix 25
11 Warranty 27
12 Customer Satisfaction Survey 28
1This manual is applicable to all Siemens cast-resin dry 
type transformers with three-phase, single phase as well 
as special transformers like rectifier transformers and 
earthing transformers.
• IEC 60076-11 – Power transformers – Part 11 Dry-type transformers
• IEC 60076-1 – Power transformers – Part 1 General
• IEC 60076-2 – Power transformers – Part 2 Temperature rise
• IEC 60076-3 – Power transformers – Part 3 Insulation class, insulation test and external insulation air clearance
• IEC 60076-4 – Transformer and electric reactor lighting impulse test and guideline
• IEC 60076-5 – Power transformers – Part 5 Short Circuit Capacity
• IEC 60076-10 – Power transformers – Part 10 Sound level Test
• IEC 60529 – Enclosure IP Class (IP Code)
• GB/T 1094.11 – 电力变压器 第11部分 ：干式变压器
• GB/T 1094.1 – 电力变压器 第1部分 ：总则
• GB/T 1094.2 – 电力变压器 第2部分 ：温升
• GB/T 1094.3 – 电力变压器 第3部分 ：绝缘水平、绝缘试验和外绝缘空气间隙
• GB/T-1094.4 – 电力变压器 第4部分 ：电力变压器和电抗器的雷电冲击和操作冲击试验导则
• GB/T 1094.5 – 电力变压器 第5部分 ：承受短路的能力
• GB/T 1094.10 – 电力变压器 第10部分 ：声级测定
• GB/T 4208 – 外壳防护等级（IP代码）Cast-resin dry-type transformers are mainly usedindoor, 
especially in the fire hazardous areas and un-derground 
water built-up areas. Cast-resin transformers can be 
widely used in shopping malls, subway stations, sports 
grounds, town halls, pumping stations and water built-
up areas. It can be easily transferred and also eco-
nomic since traditional oil leakage collection device and 
fire prevention are needless. More and more dry-type 
transformers are used in industrial fields, such as load 
center substations and feeding stations.
Specific reference standards shall be subject to the contract requirements. 
1. Applicability
2. Reference Standards
23.1 Transformer Safety Matters
Do the unloading. positioning, transfer, installation and storage of the transformer on site in
accordance with this manual to personnel injury and damage to the transformer body.
Check the earthing condition of the transformer before energizing to ensure that the earthing
points of enclosure and the lower core frames are reliably earthed.
Make sure there is no any foreign objects (such as washers, bolts, nuts, etc. which could be left
during installation) are left on the transformer core, low-voltage winding and busbar before
energizing and remove the drying agent in the enclosure.
The transformer tappings shall be connected and tightened according to the tapping indication
on the nameplate, and the three-phase tappings must be in line.
Keep enough insulation clearance among secondary control communication line and transformer
busbar as well as high voltage cable to avoid interference to the control communication signal
(e.g. RS 485 signal line).
It is not allowed to adjust the tapping when the power is on, and the tapping can only be
adjusted when the transformer is power off (power off-padlock-power test-discharge-
grounding).
When the maintenance is done, it is not allowed to energize the transformer until the earthing
cable is removed, working staff are evacuated and warning cards are removed.
Please contact the manufacturer (Siemens) If there is any damage or unknown faults to the
transformer.
3.2 Operator safety matterss 
When lifting the transformer vertically, it is not allowed to stand below and enter the lifting radius of crane
and vehicle without permission.
Before energizing the transformer, the staff should have a clear picture for safety and measures to deal with
emergencies.3. Safety Guideline
33.3 Operator qualiﬁcation
Electrical operation personnel must undergo professional training and pass examinations, and electrical
operation shall be carried out by personnel who are qualiﬁed with related certiﬁcate.
During the handing over test for transformer, the testing engineer shall have the qualiﬁcation certiﬁcate for
performing the electrical work and the test equipment used must have the calibration certiﬁcate.
Electrical operation personnel should have enough knowledge of ﬁreﬁghting, ﬁrst aid and shall be able to use 
the ﬁre-ﬁghting facilities correctly and know ﬁrst-aid application for electric shock case.
Operators working at height shall have the qualiﬁcation certiﬁcate. Safety belt should be fastened in a
designated position during operation.
  Note:
The Safety Guideline could not be able to cover the site all safety issues and all potential risks, which aims to help operators to avoid 
safety accidents as much as possible during operation.
Make sure that no operators are conducting commissioning before energizing.
The operator shall keep a safe distance from the transformer during energizing.
When the transformer trips or is power off, it is not allowed to do maintenance to the transformer body
immediately. The maintenance shall be done by professional staff after transformer earthing and discharging.
It is not allowed to open the enclosure door (if any) during power-on condition to prevent electric shock.
Operators shall wear helmets, safety shoes and reﬂective vests. The site shall be equipped with safety and
protection equipment, ﬁre-ﬁghting facility and insulation gloves which are to be checked periodically.
It is not allowed to smoke surrounding the transformer.
4Remarks：
This picture is a standard legend and does not cover all types of transformers 4.1 Transformer Body
1 Low-voltage terminal
2 Insulator 
3 Siemens logo 
4 Nameplate 
5 Lifting lugs
6 Upper clamp
7 Insulating cylinder 
8 Sensformer
9 High-voltage tappings
10 High-voltage winding 
11 Grounding screw
12 Lower clamp
13 Wheels
14 Pulling lugs
15 Delta connection
16 High-voltage terminals4. Product Structure
6
7
16 9
14
1311
121085
3
4
1
2
15
54.2 Transformer Enclosure 
1 Siemens Logo
2 Nameplate
3 Location number plate
4 Safety signs
5 Air inlet
6 Door panel 
7 Door lock 
8 Viewing window
9 Forklift signs
10 Temperature controller 
11 Electromagnetic lock
12 Air outlet
13 Foundation
1
2
3
56
78
910
1112
134
6Remarks
• The IP class is in the form of IPXX, where XX is two Arabic numerals, the ﬁrst number indicates the level of contact protection and foreign object protection, 
and the second number indicates the level of waterprooﬁng protection (the greater the number, the higher the class). 
• Environment
 Class E0 : There is condensation on the transformer, the contamination is ignored. Suitable for clean and dry indoor installation. 
 Class E1: There is condensation on the transformer occasionally and the contamination is limited. 
 Class E2: Frequent condensation and severe contamination, or both. 
• Climatic
 Class C1: Suitable for transformers operating at temperatures not less than-5 ºC, but exposed to temperatures above-25 ºC during transportation and storage. 
 Class C2: Suitable for transformers operating, transporting and storing in environment above-25 ºC. 
• Fair behavior
Class F0: Combustion performance is not speciﬁed except for the inherent characteristics of the transformer. No special ﬁre protection measures have been 
taken. However, the escape of toxic substances and opaque fumes should be minimized. 
Class F1: Transformers are suitable for ﬁre hazards and require limited combustion. The escape of toxic substances and opaque fumes should be minimized. Remarks: 
The technical parameters in this picture are standard parameters and do not cover all types of transformers.Introduction to technical 
parameters: 
1 Mounting hole 
2 Siemens brand
3 Standard:
 International Standard IEC60076-
 11:2004
4 Transformer name 
5 Type : 
 Take SCLB11-2500/10 as an example. 
 S -- Three-phase 
 C -- Cast-resin 
 L -- Aluminum product 
 B -- Foil winding 
 11 -- Performance level code 
 2500 -- Rated capacity 
 10 -- Voltage level 
6 Serial No.: Product No.
7 Rated voltage at high voltage side 
(2x±2.5%）
8 Rated voltage of low voltage side 
9 Drawing No.: Product drawing No. 
10 Number of phases 
11 Connection group symbol:
 D -- Delta connections
 Y -- Star connections
 N -- Neutral
12 Thermal class: Thermal class of 
insulation material:
 Y, A, E, B, F, H, C 
13 Type of cooling: 
 AN -- Natural air cooling 
 AF -- forced air cooling 
14 Protection class (IP class) 
15 Rated current: 
 Rated current for long-term passage 16 Insulation level: 
 LI75 -- Rated lightning impulse  
  withstand voltage 
 AC28/AC -- Rated withstand voltage 
17 Impedance voltage: Impedance voltage, 
also known as short circuit voltage, 
represents the voltage loss (percentage) 
on the transformer's impedance when 
the rated current passes 18 Weight: Design weight of transformer 
body kg 
19 Manufacture date: Year of manufacture 
20 Environmental /Climatic /Fire behavior 
classes
21 Manufacturer: Siemens Transformer 
(Guangzhou) Co., Ltd.4. Product Structure
标准/Standard:
Three-phase Dry-type Transformer三相干式变压器
型号
Type出厂序号
Serial No.
广州西门子变压器有限公司 Sieme ns Transformer (Guangzho u) Co.,Ltd.图号
Drawing No.
联结组标号
Connection SymbolDyn112500A00000
相数
Number of PhasesSCLB11-2500/10
耐热等级
Thermal ClassF/F
冷却方式
Type of CoolingAN/AF
防护等级
Protection Class
阻抗电压
Impedance Voltage
总重量(含外壳)
Total Weight (incl. enclosure)6500kg制造日期
Manufacture Date额定容量
Rated Power2500kVA
额定电压
Rated Voltage690V
2092A5-6
4-6
4-7
3-7
3-810500V10250V
10000V
9750V
9500V
144.3A
绝缘水平
Insulation LevelsAC28-LI75 / AC3
环境/气候/燃烧性能等级
Environmental / Climatic / Fire Behaviour ClassesE2/C2/F1额定电流
Rated Current3
二维码占位符
QRCode
Placeholder
NP_PH_Ver1_QRCode频率
Frequency50Hz
变压器重量
Tr.-Weight6000kg
西门子能源商标由西门子股份公司授权使用。
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.IEC 60076-11:2018
E0000000
2018.000.00%IPXX1
23
4
5
7
15
16
19
20
2189
10
11
12
13
14
17
186
75.1 Transportation 
According to the packaging requirements of the destination and customers (such as moisture-proof or waterproof), the 
appropriate transport and packaging scheme shall be selected. During the transportation process, the products are ﬁrmly 
placed, and shaking, collision and movement are prohibited. If there are multiple accessory wooden boxes, it is not allowed 
to stack more than two wooden boxes to avoid damage to the wooden boxes. The transformer shall be well protected against 
rain during transportation to prevent rainwater from wetting the transformer. 
Wooden case packing and fork-lift transportation Wooden case packing and transportation
  Warnings: 
• Stacking and Extrusion of Transformer Body Wooden Box.
• Transformers are forbidden to be placed horizontally on transport vehicles. The direction of the transformers should be the same as 
that of the vehicles..
• Transport vehicles should avoid sudden braking in the course of moving and should slow down on rough and pitted roads. 
5.2 Transfer 
When the product arrives at the destination, select the appropriate transfer method according to the loading and 
unloading requirements: 
5.2.1 If the transformer is packed in wooden cases, the lifting shall be carried out according to the lifting marks on the 
wooden cases. Or it shall be transferred according to fork-lift signs, as shown below. 5. Transportation, Transfer, Lifting, 
Handover and Storage
8  Warnings: 
• The lifting shall be uniform and smooth to avoid sudden elevation or landingand 
protect the transformer from external impact.
• The lifting angle shall not exceed 45º when lifting the transformer body.
• Raise the height carefully during forklift transportation to avoid instability of the center 
of gravity which leads to tipping or falling.5.2.2 If the transformer is packed with wooden pallet support, it shall be lifted from the lifting hole of the transformer 
body or transferred according to forklift signs as shown below.
5.2.3 If there is only the transformer body (without packing), it shall be lifted from the lifting hole of the transformer 
body as shown below.
Wooden pallet support packing and forklift transportation
 Wooden pallet support packing and lifting
5. Transportation, Transfer, Lifting, 
Handover and Storage
9 Warnings: 
• It is not allowed to lift the lifting rings on the top of 
thetransformer enclosure.
•`Makesure the slings are completely fixedbeforeliftingand note 
that the lifting angle shall not exceed 45º.
• The lifting shall be uniform and smooth to avoid sudden 
elevation or landing and prevent the transformer from quick 
landing.• Be careful when lifting to avoid tipping or falling.5.3 Lifting 
5.3.1 Vertical lifting
 The unloading and transfer methods of transformers after unpacking shall be as follows: 
1.Transformer without protective enclosure can only be lifted by slings through the lifting holes of the upper clamping. The 
lifting angle must comply with the requirements on the labels beside the lifting holes. Below can be referred.
2. Transformers with protective enclosure can be lifted in two ways:
a. If there is a specially designed lifting hole at the top cover of the enclosure, the transformer can be liftedthrough 
the lifting hole after conﬁrming the lifting mark as shown below.
b. If there is no lifting holes at the top cover of the enclosure, the top cover panel of the enclosure needs to be 
removed ﬁrst. Then the transformer can be lifted according to the lifting position marked on the transformerbody 
as shown below.

105.3.2 Horizontal transfer 
 1. If the transformer is with no protective enclosure and needs to be transferred:
a. When the transformer is equipped with rollers (unconventional conﬁguration), the external traction equipment 
can be ﬁxed through the traction hole of the lower clamping of the transformer and the transformer can be pulled 
horizontally as shown below.
b. When the transformer is not equipped with rollers, put the forklifting U-bar at the bottom of the transformer as 
shown below.
 2. If the transformer is with protective enclosure and needs to be transferred:
The forklift shall be used according to the forklift sign on the enclosure foundation. Before the transfer, the forklift
arm shall be fully extended into the base as shown below.
  Warnings: 
• Raise the height carefully during forklift transportation to avoid instability of the 
center of gravity which leads to tipping or falling.
• Avoid deformation of the enclosure caused by external force during transferNote: 
• Do not push or pull the high-voltage winding or the high-voltage connection tube.
• Avoid the collision against core and other components, such as fan and earthing terminals.
• When moving the transformer by prying the auxiliary lever, the auxiliary lever needs to be inserted into the traction hole of the 
transformer.
  Warnings: 
• Raise the height carefully during forklift transportation to avoid instability of the 
center of gravity which leads to tipping or falling.
• The lifting shall be uniform and smooth and prevent the transformer from quick 
landing.
5. Transportation, Transfer, Lifting, 
Handover and Storage
11Requirements for Storage:
a. Storage temperature shall be -25 ºC ~ 50 ºC and humidity be ≤ 90%.
it's forbidden to install or store transformers at temperature below 
-25 ºC (unless it's speciﬁed in the other agreement).
b. Use opaque casing to prevent moisture, water, dust and sunlight 
from damaging the transformer.
c. The warehouse shall be clean, dried and ventilated. Transformers 
shall not be stored together with active chemicals and corrosive sub-
stances.
d. All products shall not be stacked for storage.5.4 Handover 
Unpack the transformer and check if there is any damage during transport. In case of damage, please claim compensation 
against the carrier and report the damage to the representative of Siemens for coordination if necessary.
Please refer to the following steps to check the transformers delivered on site with the carrier and make relevant 
records.
a. Check the outer packing of the transformer, such as wooden box and the plastic casing, which shall be in good condition. 
b. Check the type, quantity and documents of transformer with delivery note, which shall be correct and well matched.
c. Check the appearance of transformer enclosure, such components as door panel, base and others, which shall be free of 
damage.
d. Check the appearance of transformer body, such as winding, copper bar and other parts, which shall be intact.
5.5 Storage 
If not installed immediately for use upon arrival at site, the transformer needs to be stored in a dry room to avoid direct sun-
light. The indoor temperature shall not be less than minus 25 º C (unless stipulated in other agreement) and the humidity shall 
not exceed 90%. The transformer shall be covered properly to prevent moisture and dust pollution.

126.1 Positioning 
Before the transformer is positioned, refer to the outline drawing and foundation drawing and check whether the actual size 
of foundation well matches the transformer base. Ensure that the installation foundation is ﬂat and able to withstand the 
weight of the transformer. The transformer shall also be placed in the same direction as the incoming and outgoing busbar of 
the high and low voltage side.
6.2 Cable Connection on HV side
Cable connection holes shall be made at both ends of the connecting rod on the high voltage side of the transformer. Take the 
delta connection as an example. When connecting HV cable, ensure that the phase sequence at the upper end is U-V-W and 
the lower end is V-W-U. Fasteners shall be used and preventive measures shall be taken for potential loosening. Fix the cable at 
the terminal of the high-voltage connecting rod and ensure that the cable is reliably supported to avoid obvious ex-ternal force 
on the wiring. Please refer to the illustration below.
High voltage Cable Proper Connection of Phase Sequence
Upper End U-V-W
Lower End V-W-U  Warnings: 
• In the areas with frequent vibration, additional damping pads shall be added prevent the transformer from resonating with the ground, 
witch may generate loud noise.
• Do not block or plug the louver in the transformer for heat dissipation. 
• The transformer shall be firmly fixed on the foundation. 6. Installation
136.3 Busbar or Cable Connection on LV Side
Cable connection holes shall also be made at low-voltage terminal of the transformer, with fasteners ﬁxed on cable or busbar 
to prevent loosening. If copper-aluminium composite foil (CUPAL) is required in the contract,it shall be installed between LV 
terminal and cable, or between LV terminal and busbar. Below is for reference.
  Warnings: 
• Ensure that cables and busbars are reliably connected and avoid obvious external force on the connection.
• In the installation of copper-aluminium composite foil, the copper surface should be in contact with the copper busbar and so is the 
aluminium surface and aluminium busbar.Al Cu Cupal
146.4 Cable Installation Layout
6.4.1 Wiring with enclosure:
For the transformer with protective enclosure, cables on HV and LV side can be imported through the top or bottom of 
the enclosure and respectively connected to the transformer. Below is the cable wiring inside the enclosure.
LV-SIDE HV-SIDELV-SIDE HV-SIDE
  Note: 
• The cable shall be ﬂexibly bent as above in connection to prevent force concentrated on the cable end.
• If drilling holes in the gland plates is needed, the gland plates need to be removed from the roof of enclosure before drilling and cutting.
• The transformer body needs to be covered by plastic ﬁlms or cloths before dismount or mount any parts on the top of enclosure, to 
prevent any hazardous elements. 
• Thoroughly cleaning is required after construction, including to remove the coverings.6. Installation
156.4.2 Wiring without enclosure
On HV side the cable can be connected to the transformer with wiring either at the bottom cable trench or at the 
topcable tray. For the LV side, both cable and busbar can be used for connection. If the busbar is used, soft connection 
is recommended to avoid mechanical impact on the low-voltage winding and to reduce noise due to transformer struc-
ture. Below is wiring for reference.
6.5 Bolts Fastening 
6.5.1 Preparation of contact surface
surfaceClean up the invisible but weakly conductive oxide layer on the contact surface before bolting or terminal 
connection.Polish the contact surface with ﬁle brushes or grindstone if it's rough and apply moderate industrial grease. 
Such preparations shall be made again before bolting when any contact surfaces is disassembled.
If the transformer is installed in a room that is prone to condensation or with much corrosive gas, the aluminium-copper 
contact area shall be coated with protective paint, especially marginal areas. Or install aluminum-copper composite foil 
(CUPAL) between the contact surfaces, so that the aluminum surface and copper surface are individually connected with 
aluminum bar and copper bar. 
6.5.2 Requirements for bolts 
Corrosion-resistant parts must be used for bolt connections, and 
strengthgrade of galvanized bolts shall not be less than 8.8 and stainless-
steel bolts not less than that of A2-70 hexagonal bolts. To distribute bolt 
fastening force to the contact surface as much as possible, use high-
strength lock washer on the surface so that the of bolts. Conical cushion 
(DIN6796) is recommended. Warnings: 
• Cables and busbars shall be reliably supported to avoid obvious external force on the connection.
• High-voltage cables are not allowed to be connected through the HV connecting rod of the transformer (delta connection).
1 Flat washer ISO 7093 
2 Hexagon bolt, ISO 4014 or ISO 4017 
3 Hexagon nut, ISO 4032 
4 Conical cushion, DIN 6796 
LV LV HV HV
166.5.3 Connection torque 
Bolts shall be secured with a torque wrench to ensure uniform clamping force. To eliminate any restoration after 
fastening at the contact areas, it is recommended that the fastening bolts be re-checked after several weeks. However, 
the torque shall not be higher than the torque used in the ﬁrst installation. It is recommended that the bolts be 
tightened according to the torque values listed in the table below. 
Torque values for busbar connections and tap connections 
Bolt Torque (Nm) 
(Ungreased) 
M6 10
M8 20
M10 45
M12 75
M16 140
6.6 Electrical safety clearance 
Sufﬁcient space must be ensured around the transformer to ensure a smooth connection of the cable and the necessary 
electrical distance. Minimum clearance value for ﬂashover protection is as bellow. 
Figure 4 The high voltage side is the minimum 
clearance around the cast resin  
transformer connected to the junction 
box (1) Figure 5 The high voltage side is the minimum 
clearance around the cast resin  
transformer connected to the copper 
tube (2) 
6. Installation
176.7 Grounding 
After the transformer is installed, ensure that the transformer body and enclosure are reliably grounded. Maximum voltage Um ① 
of the equipment 
(Effective value) Rated lightning impulse withstand voltage LI ①Minimum clearance value 
List 1 List 2 a b c d
kV kV kV mm mm mm mm
12 - 75 120 * 55 **
24 95 - 160 * 85 **
24 - 125 220 * 105 **
36 145 - 270 * 125 **
36 - 170 320 * 170 **
52 - 250 480 * 300 **
72.5 - 325 630 * 450 **
① See IEC 60071 
 * If there is a high-voltage tap on this side, parameters of column 'a' shall apply to column 'b'; Otherwise, column 'c' applies. 
**  The distanced between the delta connections is deﬁned constructively by the manufacturer.
187.1 Adjustment of transformer accessories 
7.1.1 Commissioning of temperature control system 
The transformer could be equipped with a temperature control system to monitor the the winding temperature 
toprevent abnormal temperature rise, thereby protecting the transformer.
The temperature control system includes a temperature controller and a temperature sensor (PT100). The temperature 
sensor (PT100) is placed in the three-phase winding of the transformer. When the temperature reaches the set value, the 
temperature sensor (PT100) feeds back the corresponding temperature change to the temperature controller. After the 
temperature controller receives the corresponding feedback signal, it corresponds to different functional responses (as shown 
below). The over-temperature alarm and over-temperature trip functions need to be connected with the relay protection 
system of the front-end equipment so that the higher-level equipment can be linked when the temperature controller acts. 
Temperature controller function description Parameter settings 
Over-temperature trip 150˚C
Over-temperature alarm 130˚C
Fan on 100˚C
Fan off 80˚C
The commissioning steps of the temperature control system are as follows: 
a. Check the appearance of the temperature controller and temperature sensor. 
b. Refer to the temperature controller manual for relevant parameters and setting methods. 
c. To verify the function of the temperature controller at room temperature, the relevant functional parameters need to 
be changed. 
d. After commissioning, the temperature controller settings need to be restored to the default parameters. 
 Warnings: 
• Unless the wiring is equipped with the protection switch, it is forbidden to supply power to the temperature controller directly 
from the low-voltage bus bar of the transformer in order to prevent damage to the temperature controller caused by inrush 
current impulse.
• During the commissioning of the temperature control system, it is necessary to conﬁrm that the upper and lower equipment of 
the transformer have been disconnected, to prevent the occurrence of malfunction. 
7.1.2 Travel switch commissioning 
Before commissioning of the travel switch, please consult the secondary wire diagram of the transformer to understand 
the corresponding operation logics. 
The commissioning steps of the travel switch are as follows: 
a. Mechanical function commissioning: Open the door on one side of the travel switch by approx. 20 ° and you can 
hear the switch sound "ON/OFF". 
b. Electrical function commissioning: According to the "Door Switching Node" section of the secondary wire diagram, 
terminals 1-2 and 3-4 correspond to "normally open" and "normally closed" functions, respectively. When all doors 
of transformer protective enclosure are closed, use multi-meter to measure terminals 1-2, without beeping sound 
("normally open" state); Measure terminal 3-4 with beeping sound ("normally closed" state). 
Auxiliary wire diagram 
7. Commissioning
197.2 Inspection before operation 
Before the transformer is put into operation, it is recommended that the following steps shall be followed to ensure 
that the transformer is under good operating conditions: 
7.2.1 Remove transport aids such as plastic sheeting, wood cubes, tightening belts, etc. from the transformer prior to 
operation. 
7.2.2 Check the appearance of transformer high-voltage winding, low-voltage winding, iron core, etc. 
7.2.3 Check the appearance and function of transformer accessories such as temperature controller, fan and 
electromagnetic lock (refer to 7.1). 
7.2.4 Check torque of electrical connection point such as transformer outlet terminal and tapping (refer to 6.5.3). 
7.2.5  Check the distance between the live part of the transformer and its surroundings to meet the minimum electrical 
safety clearance requirement (refer to 6.6). 
7.2.6  Clean the transformer to ensure that no foreign matter remains in the transformer (see 9.1).7.1.3 Electromagnetic lock 
The electromagnetic lock (as shown below) is installed on the protective enclosure of the transformer (if electromagnetic 
lock is required in the contract) to realize the joint defense requirements of the equipment. Electromagnetic locks with 
different functions can be selected according to user requirements. Refer to the following commissioning steps: 
a.  Check the mechanical structure, terminal of electromagnetic lock. 
b. Understand the functional characteristics of the electromagnetic lock, according to the operation manual of the 
electromagnetic lock.
c. In the power-on and power-off states, verify whether the unlocking and locking functions of the electromagnetic 
lock meet.
Schematic diagram of electromagnetic lock 1. Lock body 
2. Indicator lamp 
3. Handle 
4. Lock bolt 
5. Panel 
6. Mounting nut
7. Power cord 
8. Power cord 
connector 
9. Unlock keyhole 
Unlock key 
207.3 Pre-commissioning test 
7.3.1 Voltage ratio test: Measure the voltage ratio of the winding under all taps and the connection group. The 
allowable deviation of rated tap voltage ratio shall not exceed ± 0.5%, except for special transformers. 
7.3.2 Wingding resistance test: Measure the DC resistance of the winding at all taps and records the winding 
temperature. 
7.3.3 Insulation resistance test: Measure the insulation resistance values of the windings and cores (as shown in the 
table below) and record ambient temperature and humidity. 
 Typically, the insulation resistance is measured at ambient temperature of-25 º C ~ 50 º C, humidity ≤ 90%, and 
the insulation resistance of the transformer would decrease in humid environment. If the transformer suffers from 
dampness, the transformer can be dried. If the insulation resistance is not less than 2 M Ω, a voltage can be applied to 
the low-voltage side of the transformer and the transformer can be dried by no-load heating. If the insulation resistance 
value is less than 2 M Ω, it can be dried by air drying or baking with heat lamp. 
7.3.4  Applied withstand voltage test: To test withstand voltage ability of the transformer. On-site test value is 80% of 
the full test voltage value. The full withstand voltage test value could be checked in factory test report and on 
nameplate.
  Note:
• Before start to do the power frequency withstand voltage test, pull the temperature sensor (PT100) out of the temperature
measuring tubes which were fixed  into the LV winding. After finish ing the test, insert the tem perature sensor back to the temper-
ature measuring tube with a depth of about 15cm.Test position Test equipment Test value requirements 
High voltage terminal - 
low voltage terminal + ground 2500 V Megohmmeter ≥100 MΩ
Low voltage terminal - 
High voltage terminal + ground2500 V Megohmmeter ≥100 MΩ
High voltage terminal + low voltage terminal 
- ground 2500 V Megohmmeter ≥100 MΩ
Iron core - ground 2500 V Megohmmeter ≥10 MΩ
  Note: 
• After testing the insulation resistance of the iron core-ground, it is necessary to restore the connection of the grounding strap. 7. Commissioning
218.1 Voltage regulation. If the actual grid voltage deviates from the rated voltage of the transformer, the 
tapping gear of the transformer can be adjusted appropriately to control the output voltage value. 
a. For no-load voltage regulation, the transformer gear tap shall be adjusted to the appropriate gear to keep in line 
with the grid voltage. 
 For example: The rated voltage on the high-voltage side of the transformer is 10000 ± 2 x 2.5% V, and the rated voltage on 
the low-voltage side is 400V. The nameplate identiﬁcation gear voltage of the transformer is: 
Rated voltage 5-6 10500V
400V4-6 10250V
4-7 10000V
3-7 9750V
3-8 9500V
 If the grid voltage is 10000V, the three-phase tap shall be adjusted to gear 4-7, as shown in Figure 1. If the input voltage is 
up to 10250V, adjust the three-phase tap to gear 4-6 so that the output voltage on the low-voltage side reaches 400V, as 
shown in Figure 2. If the input voltage is as low as 9750V, adjust the three-phase tap to gear 3-7 so that the output voltage 
on the low-voltage side reaches 400V, as shown in Figure 3. 
b. For on-load voltage regulation, please refer to the operation manual of on-load tap changer. 
8.2 When large capacity no-load transformers are put into operation, visible sparks may be generated at 
the joints of external components (especially at the core and clamps), but this phenomenon will soon 
disappear. This is due to physical reasons, and will not affect the safe operation of the transformer, so 
it is not a product defect.
8.3 There is inrush current when the transformer is switched on, and the peak value can reach 6-8 times of 
rated current. The setting value of current quick protection for the transformer shall be larger than the 
peak value of inrush current, and the time limit shall be ≤ 0. 5 s. Therefore, no-load inrush impulse test shall 
be carried out before operation to check whether the relevant protection of the transformer is malfunction 
or not. If the protection value is set improperly, it will cause the tripping phenomenon in the later closing. 
 Remarks: 
It depends on the needs of users and the standard requirements of different countries and regions to decide whether the no-load 
inrush impact test is to be carried out at site or not. 
8.4 For long-term storage (storage time more than 3 months) or overhauled transformers or transformers 
to be used at ambient temperature below 0 ℃, it is recommended to operate without load for 12 
hours before putting the transformers into load, and the load shall be gradually increased. 
Figure 1
 Figure 2
 Figure 3
 Warnings: 
• The gear of transformer is set at rated gear (4-7) by default when it leaves factory. Make sure that the transformer is powered off 
before adjusting the gear. 
• The three-phase tap must be adjusted at the same time. The rear gear bolt must be tightened after adjustment and the torque value 
must be restored. 8. Operation
22Overload curve of SIEMENS GEAFOL® CRT (without cooling fans) 8.5 Transformer overload operation shall be in accordance with IEC 905 Load Guidelines for Dry-type 
Power Transformers, allowing short-term overload. The following table shows the permissible overload 
time curves at ambient temperatures of 40 ºC, 30 ºC, 20 ºC, 10 ºC. 
8.6 The three-phase voltage, current and temperature values shall be recorded periodically during the 
operation of the transformer so that the historical data of the transformer can be consulted in case of 
overhaul or fault. 
  Note: 
Above are the overload curves of the transformer under natural-cooling condition. The design of overload capacity of the transformer is not 
the same because of the different needs of users. 8. Operation
23Cast-resin transformers are maintenance-free. Routinely inspect and clean the windings, bolt connections, alarm 
devices and all fan functions once a year. If the transformer is in dusty environment or close to the pollution source, it is 
recommended to clean the equipment every six months. It is recommended to fully inspect and clean the transformer 
every 5 years. Before maintenance, the transformer must be powered off and all terminals must be short-circuited and 
grounded. 
9.1 Transformer cleaning 
Blow off the transformer with dry compressed air or wipe with dry cloth and alcohol (concentrations above 85%) to prevent 
the formation of creepage paths and blockage of cooling air passages. Select the appropriate cleaning method from Table 1 
according to the type of contamination. 
Cleaning method 1 
Use compressed air to blow the transformer. The compressed 
air must be oil-free and water-free, and the air pressure ≤ 6 
bar. Vacuum cleaners can also be used instead of compressed 
air for dust collection. 
Cleaning method 2 
Wipe with a dry rag and alcohol (concentrations above 85%). 
9.2 Maintenance matters 
S/N Maintenance items Maintenance cycle 
(recommended) Use Tools Methods:
1Clean the surface stains of windings, 
pads and cores and stains at the heat 
dissipation holes of the enclosureEach year or more. Every 6 months 
for dusty and other polluted environ-
mentDry compressed air, pressure ≤ 3 
bar, dry rags and alcoholSelect cleaning method according to Form 
1
2 Check winding surface conditionEach year or more. Every 6 months 
for dusty and other polluted environ-
mentVisual inspectionNo blackening or cracks on the surface 
of the winding (if any, please contact the 
manufacturer)
3Check bolt and nut tightening status 
at cable connectionsEach year or after repair Torque wrench According to the torque table
4Check correct tapping connections 
and bolt tighteningEach year or after repair Torque wrench According to item 8.1 and torque table
5Check grounding condition of 
transformer body and enclosureEach year or after repairTorque wrench and visual 
inspectionAccording to the torque table
6Check whether temperature 
controller settings, temperature 
probe and PT100 are normal.Each year or after repair Heat gun, power supplyThe temperature of the temperature 
controller can be displayed normally by 
blowing the temperature probe with a 
heat gun. The setting of alarm trip value 
is consistent with Item 7.1. 1. Refer to the 
operation manual of temperature controller 
for setting method
7Check accessories such as 
electromagnetic lock, travel switch, 
etc.Each year or after repair Multimeter, power supplyThe function is normal when the 
electromagnetic lock is energized. When 
the door panel of the enclosure is closed 
and opened at normal state, the normally 
open and closed terminal of travel switch 
are in the correct state.
8 Check the cooling fan Each year or after repair Power supplyTurn on the power supply, start the operation 
according to the manual of the temperature 
controller, and observe whether it rotates
9 Insulation resistance testEach year or after repair or every 5 
yearsInsulation resistance tester Refer to Item 7.3.3 for test values
10 Transformation ratio test Every 5 years or after repair Transformation ratio tester Refer to Item 7.3 for test
11 DC resistance test Every 5 years or after repair DC resistance tester Refer to Item 7.3 for test
12Power frequency withstand voltage 
testEvery 5 years or after repairPower frequency withstand 
voltage testerRefer to Item 7.3 for testSediment Cleaning method 
Oily 2
Carbonaceous 1+2
Metal-containing 1+2
Saline 1+2
Dry dust 1+2
Wet dust 29. Maintenance
249.3 Frequently asked questions guidelines (chart)
S/N Question Possible cause Corrective measure 
1Temperature controller 
does not displayTemperature controller power cord is not connected Measure whether the temperature controller power 
interface is energized and required to reconnect the 
power supply (85 ~ 250 V) 
It is internal failure of temperature controller, power interface of 
temperature controller is energized, but panel indicator lamp is not onContact Siemens After Sales Service Center to replace 
with a new temperature controller 
2Temperature 
controller three phase 
temperature display 
FOC or FCC Wrong or poor connection or loose connection of temperature sensor Check and press the temperature sensor wiring and 
tighten it according to the auxiliary wire diagram on 
the transformer certiﬁcate of conformity 
Temperature sensor probe is damaged Contact Siemens After Sales Service Center to replace 
the temperature sensor 
Three-phase 
temperature display of 
temperature controller 
differs greatly Temperature sensor probe is not fully inserted into thermometer tube 
(three-phase probe is inserted at different depths) Check the position of the temperature probe and 
place it correctly 
 Cooling fan is damaged Contact Siemens After Sales Service Center to replace 
with a new cooling fan 
Temperature sensor probe is damaged Contact Siemens After Sales Service Center to replace 
with a new temperature sensor 
Three-phase load  of transformer is not balanced Check three-phase load and voltage, current 
3The temperature 
controller cannot 
communicate properly 
with the monitoring 
device Wrong address setting for temperature controller Please refer to the use manual for the temperature 
controller 
The communication cable of the temperature controller and the strong 
electric cable are arranged together, which causes the interference of the 
communication signal Properly lay out the cables 
4 Noise is abnormal Primary side voltage exceeds tapping rated voltage Disconnect the power of transformer and adjust tap 
gear, refer to Item 8.1 
The bus bar is not ﬁxed well and there is resonance. The transformer is not 
well ﬁxed with the ground, and the resonance enclosure  plate is not ﬁxed 
tightly, and there is resonance Bus bar, enclosure board and transformer base are 
well ﬁxed 
There are unclamped free ends in the iron core or clamping parts, and 
there are high frequency vibrations during the excitation of the iron core, 
resulting in abnormal noise Check the fastening core and clamping piece and 
press the free end tight with insulating material
Within the same power distribution room, multiple devices are placed 
close together, causing wall reﬂections and noise overlappingReasonably lay out equipment position in power 
distribution room 
In the transformer load, equipment such as frequency converter produces 
large harmonics in the system, which makes the core excitation uneven 
and causes noise Filter device is designed in low voltage system 
Transformer is under overload operation state Check the load and distribute the load reasonably 
5Cooling fan is not 
running Temperature does not reach fan start temperature value Refer to Item 7.1. 1 for factory temperature setting 
value and setting method 
Cooling fan is damaged Contact Siemens After Sales Service Center to replace 
with a new cooling fan 
6Low side output 
voltage is high or low Grid input voltage is high or low Adjust the tap gear of transformer, refer to Item 8.1 
7Transformer over-
temperature alarm, trip Transformer overload (overvoltage, over current) operation Check transformer load 
Cooling of transformer fails Check whether the cooling fan is working properly 
and check whether the cooling air duct is blocked 
8Winding surface 
discharge Severe stains (dust, etc.) on the surface of the winding Clean stains on windings, pads, etc.
Short circuit on high and low voltage lines Check high-voltage lines 
High and low voltage transmission lines suffer from  overvoltage impulse Optimize system protection functions 
There is insufﬁcient distance between metal structure and winding Refer to 6.6 minimum insulation clearance 
requirements 
9Winding ablation and 
blackening Upon the service life of the transformer and natural damage; poor heat 
dissipation; long-term overload; short circuit of external wiring; system 
overload; wrong cable connection; metal foreign body falling into the 
cooling air duct of the winding; unscrewed torque of tap gear bolt; short 
circuit fault inside the winding, etc.On-site inspection is required. Please contact Siemens 
after-sales service center for such inspection.9. Maintenance
25Exploded diagram of cast resin transformer
1246
891011
7
5
31 Wheels 
2 Foundation
3 Lower clamp
4 High-voltage connecting rod
5 Insulating cylinder
6 Upper iron yoke
7 Neutral bar
8 Low-voltage winding
9 High-voltage winding
10 Upper clamp
11 Fixed screwDisassembling diagram of cast resin transformer body
Remarks: 
The picture is a standard legend and does not cover all types of transformers. 10. Appendix 
26Disassembling diagram of cast resin transformer enclosure
Remarks: 
This image is a standard legend and does not cover all types of enclosures. 10. Appendix 
Lifting assembly
Low voltage outlet cover
Top cover(LV side)assembly
Seal panel (left) assembly
Seal panel (LV side) 
assembly
Door panel assemblyBottom seal panel 
assemblySeal panel (right) 
assemblyDoor panel assemblySeal panel (HV side) assemblyTop cover(HV side)assembly
foundation assembly
27Dear customer, 
Thank you for purchasing our products. Please carefully read the manual and warranty instructions after receiving the 
products in order to better serve you.
I. Warranty Commitments 
1. The warranty period of this product is 12 months from the date of commissioning and acceptance or 18 months from 
the date of delivery, whichever comes ﬁrst. The speciﬁc warranty period shall be subject to the sales contract signed by 
both parties. 
2. During the warranty period, under the operation conditions as stipulated in the contract, the faults caused by the quality 
problems of the products shall be repaired free of charge. The warranty period for the products repaired by Siemens 
shall follow the provisions of original contract. 
3. For the products repaired for a fee, one-year warranty services shall be provided for the repaired part, and the warranty 
period shall be started from the date of shipment. 
II. The following circumstances are not covered under the warranty policies 
1. Warranty period expiry. 
2. Damage caused by failure to use in accordance with the provisions of the contract and the requirements of the manual, 
dismantling or modifying the settings without the consent of Siemens. 
3. Damage caused by sprinkling, collision, deformation, etc. during self-transportation, transfer and installation after 
purchase. 
4. Failure caused by human factors (e.g. loss of components, etc.) during installation and storage. 
5. Damage caused by improper manual operation or circuit system factors during commissioning and operation. 
6. Damage caused by force majeure such as lightning strike, ﬂood/ﬁre, earthquake and other natural disaster. Notes: Our 
company can provide paid maintenance services for products not covered under the warranty policy. 
III. Maintenance Mode 
• When you ﬁnd the fault, please call after-sales service center of Siemens Transformer (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. and provide 
complete fault information to help us conﬁrm the fault status and cause. 
• If repair is needed, we will assess the severity of the failure and arrange engineers to go to the site for repair or you may 
send the products to our factory for repair. 
• When our technical personnel arrive at the site or the products are returned to the factory, we have the right to claim 
the relevant fees (including travel fees, materials cost and other fees) after the removal of the faults not caused by the 
quality issue of the products. 
IV. Others 
The aforesaid service commitment applies to the products sold by our company. In case the after-sales service terms are 
separately agreed upon when the products are sold, the contract conﬁrmed by our company shall prevail. The right to 
interpret and amend this warranty certiﬁcate shall be vested in Siemens Transformer (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. 
Siemens Transformer (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. 
DT After Service Hotline: +86 20 62663366 
Address: No.26, Yongsheng Road, Huangpu District, Guangzhou, China.
Postal code: 51135611. Warranty Instructions
28Dear customer, 
Thank you for using our products. Please ﬁll in the following form after installation to help us complete the customer 
satisfaction survey, so that we can continuously improve our work and better serve our customers. Please mark " √" in the 
corresponding column according to your impression of the product. Thank you for your cooperation, and sincerely hope that 
you will give us valuable comments or suggestions on all aspects of our work. 
How do you rate our performance in the following areas? (If you do not address any of the following questions, you 
may not answer them.) 
Very satisﬁed Satisﬁed General Not quite satisﬁed Not satisﬁed 
Product integrity on arrival □ □ □ □ □
Handling of problems (quality problem 
solving/response to complaints) □ □ □ □ □
Appearance quality of product body □ □ □ □ □
Appearance quality of product enclosure □ □ □ □ □
Service initiative □ □ □ □ □
On-site safety consciousness of service 
personnel □ □ □ □ □
Communication skills of service personnel □ □ □ □ □
Professional level of service personnel □ □ □ □ □
Your rating on overall performance of our products and services: 
10 points 9 points 8 points 7 points 6 points 5 points 4 points 3 points 2 points 1 points
□ □ □ □ □ □ □ □ □ □
Will you recommend our products to other customers? 
□ Yes □ Possibly Yes □ No 
We sincerely hope and thank you for that you could give us your comments or suggestions on our company:
Customer Signature/Date:
Please ﬁll in this page and send it to us by means of scanning or photographing via Email: 
DTService.STGZ.cn@siemens-energy.com12. Customer Satisfaction Questionnaire
29
30If you have any questions about the distribution transformer, 
please contact us. 
Siemens Transformer (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. 
Contact information of the after-sale service: 
E-mail: DTService.STGZ.cn@siemens-energy.com 
Tel.: +86 20 62663366
2021.12 V8Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Disclaimer
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. Welcome to 
scan QR cord 
to know more 
about Siemens 
Energy dry type 
transformer
