Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 4 
 
Munich , January 27, 2021  
Odfjell Drilling rigs to feature Siemens 
Energy BlueDrive DC -Grid technology  to 
minimize emissions  
• BlueDrive DC Grid technology will help Odfjell Drilling minimize rig emissions, enabling 
customers to meet their long -term emission reduction targets  
• BlueDrive DC Grid technology is the first of its kind to be installed on an offshore drilling rig  
• BlueDrive DC Grid technology is a transformative approach to energy distribution for 
drilling  
 
Odfjell Drilling will retrofit its newest deepwater, semi -submersible drilling rigs in the North Sea’s 
Norwegian sector with the Siemens Energy BlueDrive DC -Grid system. The upgrade s will be carried 
out on  Deepsea Atlantic  and Deepsea Nordkapp , with the opportunity to include  Deepsea 
Stavanger , Deepsea Aberdeen , and Deepsea Yantai at a later stage . 
 
With these upgrades, the  rigs will push the boundaries for conventionally powered offshore rigs and 
set a new technological standard in Odfjell Drilling’s strategy towards zero -emission drilling . 
“These projects are the result of asking a simple yet challenging question: ‘What would be the most 
efficient technological approach to minimize emissions from a rig in the short term? ’ The resulting ideas 
were very well received by Odfjell Drilling’s c ustomers  and will contribute to their long -term emission 
targets, so this is business and low -emission targets working hand -in-hand,” said Per Lund, Chief 
Technology Officer and Executive Vice President, Technology & Sustainability, Odfjell Drilling.  
“Our agreement with Odfjell Drilling  affirms  our ability to understand and deliver complete, 
innovative , and cutting -edge solutions in line with our customers’  expectations, which include 
design, engineering services, interfacing with  third parties and fabricatio n of state -of-the-art power 
electronics, as well as financial advi ce and suppor t,” said Jennifer Hooper, Senior Vice President, 
Industrial Applications Solutions for Siemens Energy.   Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 4 
 
BlueDrive DC -Grid technology  
Siemens Energy ’s BlueDrive DC -Grid technology was developed and refined over many years to meet the 
offshore industry’s demanding energy distribution requirements, especially for propulsion and drilling 
systems. It is an efficient, environmentally friendly solution that p rovides high levels of reliability, 
availability, and ease of service, with low emissions.  
The Siemens Energy BlueDrive DC -Grid solution consists of DC/DC converters connected to the 
existing four drilling drive DC buses from one side and to DC/DC convert ers connected to energy -
storage systems. This allows platform operators to conduct  peak shaving of drilling loads, so fewer 
generator sets can run at higher and steadier loads  — reduc ing fuel consumption and carbon 
emissions, improving sustainability , and minimizing a rig’s carbon footprint. Further, the solution will 
increase the power plant's reliability  by reducing blackout s, which will prevent downtime and boost 
asset utilization .  
In drilling applications, the Siemens Energy BlueDrive system will be an  integral part of the entire drilling 
process, enhancing the drill string's performance when applying high torque  during drilling operations.  
The best quality  of technology was a must. Also, the Siemens Energy BlueDrive DC Grid system 
meets the five focus areas (E-RAMS ) of the offshore industry :  
- Environmentally friendly, lowering carbon footprint  
- Reliable solution with a high return on investment (ROI)  
- Available power supply with no blackouts  
- Maintenance predictable and at a low cost  
- Safe operations  are supporting zero -harm goals.  
 
The scope awarded to Siemens Energy results from  several months of technical and operational 
clarifications to ensure the rigs' optimal functional profile .  
 
The long -term relationship and technology cooperation  between Odfjell Drilling and Siemens 
Energy also include s several R&D initiatives related to power from shore or nearby platforms a nd 
floating offshore windmills to fixed platforms or rigs.  
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 4 
 
These solutions will complement the Siemens Energy DC Grid and BlueVault battery solution system 
and provide customers with holistic approaches to solving their power challenges that Siemens 
Energy can deliver entirely.  
 
 
Above: Siemens Energy’s BlueDrive DC -Grid technology is an efficient, environmentally friendly solution that provides 
high levels of reliability, availability, and ease of service, with low emissions.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Janet Ofano  
Phone:  +1 803 -389-6753  
E-mail:  janet.ofano@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture are available at www.sie mens -energy.com /press   
 
For further information on Energy Storage Solutions , please see http://bit.ly/393UNCd  
 
Follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  4 of 4 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and service s, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrog en, and power generators and transformers. More than 
50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies . An estimated one -sixth 
of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 
90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion in fiscal year 20 20. 
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 