Reference
Technical solution
•Nine 5 MW SGT -A05 gas turbines (with N+1 
redundancy)
•Fuel flexibility (dual fuel + H2 -capability)
•Fast start -up of <90s Powering data centers with aeroderivative gas turbinesStable and Reliable Power for    
Equinix DB5
“This project represents an 
important milestone in how 
state -of-the-art gas turbine 
technology can secure the 
energy supply for data centers. 
Our customer will have a 
reliable, high -power density, 
low emission and efficient 
solution for on -site back -up 
power generation.” 
Robert Bouwens
Vertical Sales Manager, Siemens EnergyChallenge
With the global demand for data centers steadily 
growing, the question of their energy supply and 
their integration into national power grids is of 
increasingly critical importance. They have 
become the digital backbone of modern society 
such that power blackouts and disruptions are 
unacceptable to consumers, regulators, and 
infrastructure owners alike. The transition to a 
clean energy system requires that any on -site 
generating solution must be future -ready in terms 
of fuel flexibility and should be fully capable of 
supporting the integration of renewable energy 
sources by firming the grid with dispatchable 
generation capacity.
The Equinix DB5 data center outside Dublin helps sustaining Ireland’s power network.

Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains 
general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically 
reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features are binding only 
when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global 
GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own 
purposes could violate the rights of the owners.For the U.S. published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc .
15375 Memorial Drive, Suite 700
Houston, TX 77079 , USA
For more information, please visit our website: www.siemens -energy.comPublished by and copyright © 2025
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn -Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
Benefits
•Support and stabilize the grid to balance intermittent 
renewable generation
•Enable data center to act as a peaker 
•High startup reliability 
•Accelerated operation before grid is available 
•High power density generator units
•Emergency backup in case of blackout
At the Equinix DB5 data center outside Dublin, 
Siemens Energy’s SGT -A05 gas turbines provide 
local peaking and backup power required to 
operate a state -of-the-art data hub and help 
sustain Ireland’s power network in a period of far -
reaching change. Equinix is a global leader in digital infrastructure 
co-location with clients in North and South 
America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia -
Pacific region. Founded in 1998, Equinix now 
operates 229 data centers in 63 major 
metropolitan areas across 27 countries, including 
five centers in the greater Dublin area.
It provides data center services to more than 
10,000 customers, including over 260 Fortune 
500 companies, ranging from digital media, 
network, and financial corporations to cloud and 
IT service providers.About the customer The 45 MW power generation plant incorporates nine 5 MW Siemens Energy 
SGT-A05 gas turbines.The SGT -A05 is an ideal power generation 
solution for fast -response emergency backup and 
highly efficient on -site energy supply. 
Its emissions, already lower than those of 
conventional reciprocating combustion engines 
running on diesel or natural gas, are further 
reduced by short shutdown times, and it exhibits 
low parasitic losses while in back -up mode. 
The turbine excels through reduced maintenance 
periods, usually requiring less than three days of 
shutdowns for overhauls. This allows the operator 
to adhere to tight schedules, maintain availability 
while also ensuring maximum performance and 
efficiency over a long service life. 
