Frei verwendbar © 2020 Siemens Energy Page 1Methanol synthesis based on green hydrogen and CO 2 
from biomass-based industrial flue gas raises the 
prospect of a carbon-neutral industrial system. As a fuel 
for mobility applications and feedstock for the chemical 
industry, green methanol can decisively drive the de-
fossilization of industry sectors. At the same time, 
integrating methanol production into existing industrial 
facilities such as combined heat and power plants or 
pulp and paper mills, creates a local and CO 2-neutral 
closed-loop system .
Today, methanol is one of the most widely produced or-
ganic chemicals and one of the most important raw materi-
als in the chemical industry. As an energy carrier, methanol 
can be used in various industries and by end consumers as 
a fuel for mobility applications or used to generate energy 
in fuel cells (“Direct Methanol Fuel Cell” or “DMFC”). Since 
conventional methanol production from natural gas re-
leases significant amounts of fossil greenhouse gases, the 
carbon-neutral production of green methanol on an indus-
trial scale can make an important contribution to the en-
ergy transition.
In particular, eMethanol can play an important role as an 
energy carrier. eMethanol can help to reduce emissions 
during the transition to electric mobility options, for the 
operation of vehicles for example. In the long term, even more countries will seek to limit or ban internal combus-
tion engines to meet climate targets. First national plans 
aim for banning the registration of new vehicles with diesel 
and gasoline engines from 2030. eMethanol provides the 
option of carbon-neutral mobility, as it can be blended with 
gasoline and can be used in this form in any engine – in 
China, for example, methanol is already being added to 
gasoline as standard. With Direct Methanol Fuel Cells, it is 
also possible to run electric vehicles of any type entirely on 
methanol.
Production from water, green 
electricity, and industrial waste 
gases
eMethanol is produced by chemically combining CO 2 and 
hydrogen. First, hydrogen is produced in an electrolyzer. 
The hydrogen is converted into methanol in a reactor by ca-
talysis with carbon dioxide (CO 2). To produce ‘green’ (i.e. 
carbon-neutral) eMethanol, hydrogen from renewable elec-
tricity is used in combination with biogenic CO 2. siemens-energy.com
Green methanol:  The basis 
for a  CO 2-neutral circular 
economy
Siemens Energy and Liquid Wind partnering up to 
use renewable energy and industrial CO 2 as raw 
material for applications in mobility and industry.

Frei verwendbar © 2020 Siemens Energy Page 2The potential of this method lies in the fact that the CO 2
used can be obtained via carbon-capture processes, for ex-
ample from industrial waste gases (biogenic or non-bio-
genic CO 2), or captured directly from the air (“Direct Air
Capture” or “DAC”). This process both avoids the emission
of further, climate-damaging carbon dioxide, and uses it as
a resource and raw material for a new energy carrier. Based
on proven technologies, eMethanol can therefore support
sustainable industry, enabling CO 2-reduced production and
supply chains, and even CO 2neutral eMethanol, in case bi-
ogenic CO 2 and renewable electricity is used.
In addition, methanol synthesis produces water and waste
heat, which in turn can be used within a closed-loop sys-
tem. The water is fed back directly into the electrolysis pro-
cess, where it serves as feedstock for further hydrogen pro-
duction. The waste heat can also be captured and fed back
into the overall system. The O 2 generated in the Electro-
lyzer can be used in additional industry processes, e.g. in
the pulp mills for the bleaching process, wastewater treat-
ment or efficiency increase of other processes.
Modelled on nature: photosynthesis
eMethanol synthesis from green hydrogen and CO 2 uses
the model of photosynthesis in green plants, which uses
the energy of sunlight to split water into oxygen and hydro-
gen. While the oxygen is being released, the plants absorb
carbon dioxide from the air and combine it with hydrogen
to produce storable fuels such as sugar and polyalcohol.
Using the same principle, oxygen and hydrogen can be pro-
duced in industry from water and renewable electricity. The
oxygen is released or used elsewhere – in medical applica-
tions, for example – while hydrogen and carbon dioxide are
combined to form eMethanol.
Production on an industrial scale
Against the background of energy transition and na-
tional/international climate targets, a worldwide, concen-
trated expansion of capacities for renewable energy is not
only to be expected, but essential. Efficient solutions that
store renewable energy seasonally in large quantities are
vital, given the natural fluctuations in the production of
wind and solar power.
The production of eMethanol on an industrial scale offers a
promising and economical solution to this challenge. Elec-
trolysis from sustainable electricity sources produces hydro-
gen, which is converted into methanol by reaction with car-
bon dioxide. Like gasoline or diesel, the liquid eMethanol is
comparatively easy to store, transport and use.
The first pilot plants for this purpose, particularly in Ice-
land, have now been in operation for almost 10 years.Proven "Power to X" portfolio from
Siemens Energy
The technologies required for all process steps in the indus-
trial production of eMethanol are already available and
well-proven. In recent years, Siemens Energy has been de-
veloping customized "Power to X" solutions for the de-car-
bonization of various industries and established partner-
ships with the world's leading suppliers of e-fuel synthesis
technologies. From wind power, green hydrogen and e-
fuels production to carbon-free re-electrification, Siemens
Energy benefits from many years of experience in the oil
and gas industry, so that most of the relevant plant compo-
nents have been available, proven in use and established
for years. With the "Proton Exchange Membrane" (PEM)
electrolysis, Siemens Energy is a leading supplier for the
most promising Electrolyzer technology for sustainable hy-
drogen production. This PEM-technology, in comparison to
the classical Alkaline Technology, matches perfectly to cope
with the high volatile sustainability on the market for re-
newable electricity and just needs power and water and no
additional (toxic) chemicals for the production of green hy-
drogen.
Global roll-out of a model project
Swedish Power-to-X company Liquid Wind is currently plan-
ning the first large-scale industrial roll-out of eMethanol
production facilities across Sweden in partnership with
pulp and paper mills and CHP plants. Liquid Wind is also
planning to develop Flagship facilities in Europe and other
suitable locations internationally. The Flagship facility will
use Siemens Energy's Electrolyzer of the newest genera-
tion, Silyzer300, which is highly adaptive and matching the
requirements of the specific value chains. The eMethanol
produced can be used to power ships and replace marine
fuel oil. Ten Flagship projects with an annual production
volume of 50,000 metric tons of eMethanol each are to be
built by 2030. The company is planning to scale rapidly and
has a vision to develop 500 standardized plants worldwide
by 2050.
This scaling is made possible by the consistent use of digi-
tal capabilities. The entire planning and integration are car-
ried out with the help of licensing via a Digital Twin for
data (COMOS), process and operations, which is also pro-
vided by the Siemens Ecosystem. This means that the
plants worldwide can be planned, tested, and efficiently
operated via Digital Twin implementations. On this basis,
there are great development opportunities for scaling up in
countries that are rich in renewable energy and – with the
synthesis from hydrogen and CO 2 – can both meet growing
demand for green methanol.
Closed production cycles
In the first Flagship project, Liquid Wind will co-locate the
eMethanol plant with a combined heat and power plant
Frei verwendbar © 2020 Siemens Energy Page 3(CHP) from Övik Energy in Örnsköldsvik/Sweden to make
use of biogenic CO 2, renewable electricity from additional
wind power and other utilities. The biomass-based flue
gases will form the green raw material for carbon-neutral
fuel. In the process, CO 2 for methanol synthesis is captured
from the plant's biomass-based flue gas. The purified water
is used for hydrogen electrolysis, as is the water produced
as a by-product during methanol synthesis. The waste heat
is used to supply energy to the local district heating and to
concentrate the CO 2. For future facilities, the pulp and pa-
per industry is an ideal industry partner for eMethanol pro-
duction, the oxygen produced can be returned to the pulp
mill or CHP. Additionally, mills could use the eMethanol
produced to replace diesel used for trucks, fork lifts/lift
trucks or caterpillars in their distribution chain to further
reduce CO 2 emissions.
Each Liquid Wind facility will produce 50,000 tons of
eMethanol per year. To achieve this, 75 MW of renewable
electricity from wind power will be used to produce green
hydrogen, and 70,000 tons of biogenic CO 2 will be up-
cycled. Four Siemens Silyzer300 units will be used as Elec-
trolyzers for hydrogen production. Siemens Energy is also
responsible for plant-wide electrification, instrumentation
& automation, including engineering and services, as well
as digitalization with Digital Twin implementation, Indus-
trial Internet of Things (IIoT), analytics and AI applications.
Production from the first flagship project in Örnsköldsvik,
Sweden is scheduled to start early 2024.
Green alternative for marine
propulsion and industry
eMethanol offers a sustainable fuel option, especially for
ship propulsion systems that are predominantly operated
using ‘marine diesel’ (heavy fuel oil). Due to marine diesel’s
poor ecological assessment and significant fossil carbon
emissions, its use cannot be reconciled with international
climate targets. Worldwide, marine diesel fueled ships are
already refused entry to many ports, while countries like
Norway aim at bans in coastal waters. Some shipping com-
panies are therefore switching to liquified natural gas-
driven engines (LNG), to reduce sulfur emissions, even
though they are not carbon-neutral. Due to its compatibil-
ity with existing infrastructure, eMethanol offers a viable
alternative to reach climate targets and significantly reduce
fossil carbon emissions.
Of the approximately 98 million metric tons of methanol
produced worldwide each year, around 85% is used as a
feedstock in the chemical industry for syntheses or as a sol-
vent. Countries like Taiwan, which themselves lack the fos-
sil fuels for methanol production, import large quantities of
methanol for their chemical industry. At the same time,
those countries with few raw materials are investing heav-
ily in renewable energy such as photovoltaics and wind
power. The synthesis of methanol based on hydrogen and
CO 2 offers these countries the opportunity to substitute the
demand for their own industry.Fair competition needs fair
conditions
The integration of eMethanol production can already be
made economically profitable in many industrial areas. Fur-
thermore, all technologies are available at the required
scale and have been proven over many years, as the Sie-
mens Energy portfolio confirms: from technical applica-
tions to the complete digital toolset. Research and develop-
ment costs are therefore limited to optimizing existing
technologies, achieving an even higher level of integrated
operations and maximizing the use of Digitalization tools.
The widespread success of eMethanol as a raw material
and energy carrier essentially depends on whether it can be
offered at competitive market conditions. Above all, this re-
quires appropriate legal and fiscal framework conditions for
carbon-neutral methanol. To date, synthetic fuels have
generally been more expensive for the consumer than fos-
sil or oil-based energy sources and fuels. Fossil fuels are
subsidized to a large extent by subsidies and tax breaks. For
example, the environmentally harmful marine diesel is not
subject to CO 2 tax and can be used tax-free in accordance
with Section 27 of the German Energy Tax Act (Ener-
gieStG).
To make lower-carbon and zero-carbon alternatives attrac-
tive and help the corresponding technologies achieve a
breakthrough, economic incentives and tax relief are
needed, as the example of successful wind power subsidies
shows.
Solutions to climate policy
challenges
In the short and medium term, the production of eMetha-
nol from renewable electricity offers the opportunity to es-
tablish new, largely carbon-neutral economic cycles. In the
long term, the conversion of renewable electricity into
eMethanol – hand in hand with other application-specific
technologies such as hydrogen and an expansion of power
grids – raises the prospect of an energy economy that is no
longer dependent on fossil fuels. This circular fuel genera-
tion will avoid further increase in greenhouse gases by en-
suring that fossil resources remain in the ground.
A methanol economy based on renewable electricity there-
fore provides the solution to many climate challenges,
which although already addressed in some way today, re-
quire a better conceived and integrated approach.
Frei verwendbar © 2020 Siemens Energy Page 4
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Siemens Energy
SE GP I CM
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com/fiber
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may un-
dergo modification in the course of further development of the prod-
ucts. The requested performance features are binding only when they 
are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.