Sam Miorelli, Scott Tackett and Arja Talakar, 
Siemens Energy, USA, on ushering in the 
next generation of compressor stations and 
addressing challenges related to cost, emissions 
and asset integrity.
Today, every oil and gas company faces pressure to 
reduce costs, lower emissions and ensure profitability in 
a future defined by market volatility. Pipeline operators, 
however, face a unique set of challenges. 
Although the collapse in demand and the associated drop 
in production caused by the global pandemic temporarily 
alleviated pressure on North American midstream companies to 
build out new transportation infrastructure, the long-term need 
for pipelines and compressor stations is expected to remain 
strong. The question operators now face is how they can bring 
these facilities online quickly and sustainably while at the same 
time reducing emissions and maintaining the integrity of existing 
assets. 
This article looks at how some of the latest advancements in 
rotating equipment, waste heat recovery and digitalisation can be 
leveraged to achieve these objectives.
Compressor station design 
The selection of turbomachinery within compressor stations is an 
area where significant opportunities exist for pipeline operators to 
reduce both emissions and lifecycle costs. 
As far as design philosophies go, one trend we have seen 
in recent years on large capacity pipelines is the move away 
from several trains with gas turbine power blocks in the sub-30 
000 hp unit range to fewer trains in the 50 000 hp range. Larger 
power blocks driven by modern gas turbines can translate into a 
lower cost per unit of horsepower, as well as reduced installation 
and land acquisition costs. For one particular ~500 mile pipeline 
project,1 Siemens Energy compared the capital costs of the 
following two compression options:
 )9 x 30 000 hp ISO trains installed across four stations.
 )5 x 55 000 hp ISO trains installed across four stations.
Using a net present value (NPV) analysis, capital savings of 
Option 2 were estimated at US$50 million. Recent projects that Siemens Energy has been involved with have shown that 
it is possible to increase these savings further using modular 
construction techniques combined with sole-source provisioning 
of trains. The degree of CAPEX savings achieved through 
modular fabrication will ultimately vary from project to project. 
Generally speaking, however, a 25 - 30% reduction in project 
spend is feasible when compared to a stick-built station.
Operational and maintenance expenses with Option 2 
were also estimated to be 20% lower. These savings are mainly 
attributable to the fact that there are fewer trains and ancillary 
equipment for operators to maintain. 
Another advantage of large power blocks is higher operating 
efficiency over a broader range of power loads, leading to a 
corresponding reduction in fuel consumption and emissions. 
For example, in the above comparison, the 5 x 55 000 hp 
configuration would consume an estimated 4.3 million ft3/d 
less fuel than the 9 x 30 000 hp option. At a gas cost of US$5/
mmBTU, this would result in savings of US$40 million over the 
life of the pipeline.
When it comes to the actual selection of the gas turbine, 
another trend that has emerged is the use of units equipped 
with modern dry low emissions (DLE) combustion systems. 
Over the past decade, the reliability and performance of DLE 
combustion systems have been drastically improved. Many DLE 
units in operation today are seeing single-digit parts per million 
(ppm) NOx emission levels at power loads as low as 0%. The 
Siemens Energy SGT-400 industrial gas turbine (15 000 - 20 000 
hp) with its enhanced DLE combustion hardware, for example, 
can maintain compliance with any applicable North American 
regulations down to 20% load. This is also the case with the 
larger SGT-750 industrial gas turbine model (50 000 - 55 000 hp), 
which can achieve 9 ppm NOx down to 20% load. 
The fuel flexibility of DLE gas turbines has improved in 
recent years as well. Many models can now seamlessly switch 
between burning natural gas and other liquid fuels, including 
those with medium calorific values (MCV). The use of fuels with 
high contents of hydrogen is also possible. This is an essential 
characteristic with many pipeline projects planning to use 
co-firing in the coming years to reduce emissions. 
By combining these gas turbine innovations with 
technologies for reducing or eliminating fugitive emissions 
from compressors, such as recompression or modern dry gas 
seals (both of which can be applied in brownfields), the carbon 
footprint of stations can be reduced rather substantially. 
sCO2-based waste heat recovery
For mechanically driven facilities, even further emissions 
reductions and efficiency gains can be realised by capturing 
and utilising waste heat from gas turbines. Although some 
compressor stations today use some form of waste heat 
recovery, the inherent drawbacks of traditional steam and 
Organic Rankine Cycle (ORC) technologies have prevented their 
application on a broader scale. 
One of the primary limitations of steam cycles is the 
requirement for a plentiful water source and manual boiler 
operation. With many compressor stations located in remote 
locations without access to an ample supply of freshwater or 
where freezing can occur, these systems can be difficult to Figure 1.  Siemens Energy modular compression station rendering 
with compression train inside a building.
Figure 2.  This integrated SGT-400 compressor train is being used 
in a pipeline application in Latin America.
  World Pipelines  /  REPRINTED FROM NORTH AMERICA 2021

justify. In recent years, ORC has emerged as a more attractive 
alternative to steam cycles. However, it also comes with 
drawbacks, including increased system complexity, exhaust 
temperature limitations, and environmental concerns related to 
the use of hazardous chemicals. 
This year, Siemens Energy took an important step in 
expanding the possibilities for waste heat recovery at 
compressor stations by signing an agreement with TC Energy 
Corporation in Canada to install a water-free, waste heat-
to-power system at a facility in Alberta. The system was 
commercialised by Siemens Energy and Echogen Power Systems 
and uses supercritical carbon dioxide (sCO2) as the working 
fluid. sCO2 provides several advantages compared to ORC and 
steam cycles, including a more effective heat transfer profile, 
smaller footprint, lower installed costs, and the ability for remote 
operation. 
The system at the compressor station in Alberta will 
capture waste heat from a gas-fired turbine and convert it into 
emissions-free power. The system will feed the grid with enough 
electricity to power roughly 10 000 Canadian homes. It will 
offset approximately 44 000 t/y of greenhouse gases, equivalent 
to taking 9000 vehicles off the road.
Embracing digital transformation 
In addition to taking advantage of the latest advancements 
in equipment, operators will also have to embrace digital 
transformation if they are to remain competitive in the coming 
years. An increasing number of companies now acknowledge this 
reality; however, many continue to show reluctance when using 
their data, owing to cybersecurity concerns and doubts about 
ROI. 
While both areas should be closely scrutinised when deciding 
whether or not to implement a solution, operators should ask the 
potential implications and risks of not digitalising. 
To quantify this, let us consider the application of Siemens 
Energy’s cloud-based SmartPumpingTM solution to an 800 mile 
liquid pipeline with 18 pump stations driven by electric motors. At 
an average electricity rate of 7.5 cents/kWh, the annual utility bill 
for the line could be as high as US$30 million. 
Now consider the massive volume of data generated from 
systems controlling valves, pumps, and motors in the stations. To 
provide some context, one of North America’s largest pipelines 
generates more than 20 000 data points of data every five 
seconds. This raw data holds tremendous value that is unlocked 
by processing and analysing it against the delivery schedules 
of various customer products, each with its own hydraulic 
characteristics. 
SmartPumping analytics can take into account the power 
demands of those hydraulic characteristics and propose 
parameters aimed at helping operators reduce electrical loads in a 
process known as batch optimisation. The application can also be 
used to leverage utility price differentials between pump stations, 
shifting either downstream or upstream some of the power load 
of one station that’s subject to relatively expensive utility rates to 
another pump station where utility charges are less.
In this particular case, just a 1% reduction in power consumption 
at each of the 18 pumping stations along the 800 mile route 
could equate to utility bill savings of US$7.5 million over five years. Depending on the source of power generation, it could also 
translate into a reduction of up to 70 000 metric t of CO2 emissions. 
Significant opportunities also exist to optimise maintenance 
and improve asset utilisation through digitalisation. Among the 
many different solutions available on the marketplace today, asset 
performance management (APM) software has garnered a great 
deal of interest, as it has been used extensively in industries that are 
widely recognised as being far along on the digital transformation 
maturity curve (e.g. aviation, manufacturing, chemical processing, 
etc.). 
Last year, Siemens Energy launched its own APM platform 
(APM4O&G), which is explicitly geared toward oil and gas facilities, 
including compressor stations.
APM4O&G is a diagnostic and decision-support tool that 
combines Bentley Systems field-proven asset performance software 
platform (AssetWise) with Siemens Energy’s domain expertise and 
know-how in oil and gas equipment operations and maintenance. 
The solution is delivered as-a-service (i.e. subscription-based) and is 
designed to help operators ensure that every piece of equipment 
in their facility performs its expected function within a specific 
operating and business context.
As my colleague Matthew Grimes – along with Stuart Mitchell 
from Proflex Technologies – discussed in the September 2021 issue 
of World Pipelines , digitalisation also enables faster and more 
accurate detection of spontaneous leaks at a much lower cost 
than methods, such as fibre optic sensing. In the article, Mr. Grimes 
and Mr. Mitchell provided an overview of a recent collaboration 
between our two companies to offer IoT-based spontaneous leak 
detection as-a-service.2 
The solution leverages ProFlex Technologies’ novel Negative 
Press Wave (NPW)-based remote monitoring and complex 
data processing algorithms to detect and localise small pipeline leaks 
within seconds. Once a leak event has been identified, Siemens 
Energy’s cloud-based IoT system analyses the leak data in real-time, 
notifying users through mobile devices, laptops, or via desktop or 
SCADA system. Leak location in the form of latitude and longitude 
co-ordinates is presented on a pipeline asset map and has proven to 
be accurate to around 20 - 50 ft.
Cybersecurity
Of course, any conversation about the digitalisation of pipeline 
assets cannot be had without a discussion of cybersecurity. 
Cyberattacks now threaten the core value proposition of every 
oil and gas organisation. Unfortunately, the interconnected and Figure 3.  sCO2 turbine vs. steam turbine (~10MW size).
  World Pipelines  /  REPRINTED FROM NORTH AMERICA 2021
distributed nature of pipelines makes them a desirable target for 
malicious parties. This is particularly the case with ageing compressor 
and pumping stations, which were not explicitly designed with 
connectivity in mind. 
Today, the primary challenge when it comes to protecting 
midstream networks from potential cyber intrusions is visibility. 
Most operators don’t have the proper tools or domain expertise 
to identify possible weak points within their architectures. In some 
cases, intrusions may have already occurred but gone undetected. 
Ironically, the key to addressing this challenge is more 
digitalisation. The use of artificial intelligence (AI)-based tools that 
can rapidly detect when an attack is occurring represent arguably 
the most advanced protection measure available today. These tools 
have been successfully applied across other industries. Historically, 
however, they have been challenging to scale for IT and OT 
networks spread over millions of square miles of remote terrain.
Siemens Energy set out to solve this problem by partnering 
with SparkCognition to deploy DeepArmor Industrial, a novel cyber 
defense system designed to protect endpoint and remote OT 
assets across the energy value chain.
DeepArmor features an AI-driven system that provides 
continuous monitoring and the capability to quickly detect 
cyberattacks, delivering next-generation antivirus, threat detection, 
application control, and zero-day attack prevention to endpoint 
transmission and distribution assets. The collaborative effort aims to help the midstream and broader oil and gas industry address its 
cybersecurity challenges by providing operators, for the first time, 
with fleet-level monitoring and protection capabilities.
Collaborating with strategic partners
Midstream companies are under intense pressure to simultaneously 
reduce both costs and emissions. It is sometimes perceived that 
addressing one of these challenges must occur at the expense 
of the other. At Siemens Energy, our experience with large-scale 
compression projects across the globe has shown this does not 
have to be the case. 
The key to success lies in engaging with strategic partners who 
have shared goals and can help choose the right combination of 
technologies and strategies to deploy. To this end, operators can 
benefit by embracing relationships with vendors and OEMs that 
are more open and collaborative than closed and transactional. 
The complex issues the industry has to solve in the coming years – 
particularly with regards to decarbonisation – will inevitably require 
new ways of both thinking and working. 
References
1. Length – 491 miles; flowrate – 2000 million ft3/d; MAOP – 1750 psi; diameter 
– 42 in.; sas price – US$5/mmBTU; operating life – 30 years.
2. Proflex Technologies Spontaneous Leak Detection As-a-service, powered 
by Siemens Energy IoT.
  World Pipelines  /  REPRINTED FROM NORTH AMERICA 2021