www.turbomachinerymag.comSPECIAL REPORT: HYDROGEN
November/December 2020  • Turbomachinery International18
HYDROGEN 
TURBOMACHINERY
Readying Pipeline Compressor Stations For 100% Hydrogen
BY PETER ADAM, RALF BODE, & MARKUS GROISSBOECK 
Blue hydrogen, and more long-term, green 
hydrogen (i.e., hydrogen produced via 
renewable-powered water electrolysis), 
holds enormous potential in helping the world 
achieve its decarbonization goals. In particular, 
green hydrogen promises to bring flexibility 
and dispatchability to emissions-free power 
from intermittent sources like solar and wind.
Two central building blocks are needed to 
make this reality: 
1) A sufficient source of blue/green hydro -
gen production 
2) A needs-based storage and transportation 
network that can reliably and cost-effec -
tively supply hydrogen to end-users. 
Given the high costs and complexity associ -
ated with developing new transportation infra -
structure, many pipeline operators and regula -
tory bodies are asking the question, “How 
much effort would be required to repurpose 
existing natural gas infrastructure to accommo -
date hydrogen?”
Let’s look at some specific changes required 
to make pipeline assets ready for hydrogen 
operation, focusing on the rotating equipment 
within compression stations. 
HYDROGEN COMPRESSION 
Contrary to popular belief, the effective trans -
port energy density of hydrogen in an existing 
gas pipeline is only slightly lower than that of 
natural gas. Therefore, the switch from natural 
gas to hydrogen would have little impact on a 
pipeline’s capacity to transport energy. However, 
the much lower molecular weight and heating 
value of hydrogen relative to natural gas have 
implications on the type and design of rotating 
equipment used in compression stations.  
For pipelines transporting 100% hydrogen, 
reciprocating compressors are currently the most 
economical solution. With reciprocating com -
pressors, the gas is efficiently compressed in the 
cylinders. By increasing the number of cylinders 
and drive power, as well as a parallel arrange -
ment of compressors, a viable transport capacity 
of up to 750,000 Nm³/h can be achieved.The compression of hydrogen with turbo -
compressors is more complicated. Although cen -
trifugal compressors for hydrogen recycle service 
have been used in downstream and petrochem -
ical applications for decades, their efficiency is 
lower than that of reciprocating compressors. 
For a given impeller tip speed in a turbo -
compressor, the pressure increase is directly 
proportional to the molecular weight of the gas. 
Hydrogen’s molecular weight is approximately 
1/16th of methane, which means that achieving 
a comparable pressure ratio to an existing nat -
ural gas line would require much higher impel -
ler tip speeds or a much higher number of com -
pressor stages in several compressor casings.
Impeller mechanical strength limits are 
directly correlated with tip speed. The maxi -
mum allowable tip speed of the impeller varies 
depending on the material used. Typically, these 
material strength limitations are not a concern 
when designing compressors for service with air, 
CO 2, or natural gas. In the case of low weight 
gas compositions, like hydrogen, however, they 
can be approached. Therefore, the design of a 
compressor for hydrogen operation is not dic -
tated by aerodynamic limits, so much as it is by 
the impellers’ mechanical strength limits. 
Extensive studies on the design of blades 
and impeller geometry have shown that when 
high-strength titanium alloys are used, these 
stress levels can be reduced to allow for pressure 
ratios of up to 1.45:1 per stage. Therefore, a six-
stage machine with a total pressure ratio of 4:1 
with 100% hydrogen is technically possible. It 
can be assumed that the commercial availabil -
ity of these machines will increase in the com -
ing years when the market demands them.
Overall, the extent to which compression 
equipment will need to be adapted will depend 
on the pipeline’s hydrogen content. If the admix -
ture is less than 10% hydrogen, the compressor 
can be operated without any significant changes. 
When the admixture is under 40% hydro -
gen, the compressor housing can be main -
tained, but the impellers and feedback stages 
and gears require adjustment. For pipelines Figure 1: Sulfide-stress-cracked 
impeller from a plant where the 
operator failed to specify 
hydrogen sulfide in the gas.

 www.turbomachinerymag.comSPECIAL REPORT: HYDROGEN
Turbomachinery International  • November/December 2020  19
with greater than 40% hydrogen content, the 
entire compressor must be replaced.
MATERIAL CONSIDERATIONS
The switch from natural gas to hydrogen also 
warrants consideration of the materials used for 
rotating equipment and the physical pipelines. 
Hydrogen embrittlement, or hydrogen-induced 
cracking (HIC), is a type of deterioration that 
occurs when atomic hydrogen diffuses into an 
alloy (see Figure 1 ). Depending on the steel 
grade and the operating conditions of the pipe -
line, this reduction in toughness can lead to the 
growth of existing crack-like defects, thus reduc -
ing the service life of the line or component. 
Although HIC can occur in pipeline walls, 
it is unlikely as there are rarely dynamic pres -
sure fluctuations during regular operation, and 
no atomic hydrogen is produced during trans -
port. It is generally accepted that both are 
required for the phenomenon to occur. HIC, 
however, is a concern in impellers, which are 
subject to stress due to high speeds. 
While the titanium alloys used for high-
speed impellers offer excellent strength, they are 
subject to hydrogen embrittlement and HIC in 
the presence of high concentrations of hydrogen. 
To avoid these deteriorating mechanisms, tita -nium impellers require reliable surface coatings.
Design changes can be made to reduce the 
likelihood of HIC in compressor impellers, for 
example, better interstage cooling. Ultimately, 
however, better alloys must be developed with 
greater component reliability. 
A test method has been developed to sim -
ulate high-speed impeller conditions in a tur -
bocompressor operating in pure hydrogen ser -
vice. The technique will be presented at a 
technical conference late in 2020. It challenges 
a historical specification limit within the oil 
and gas production work. The goal is to pro -
vide guidance on a new NACE standard for 
testing HIC and identify fit-for-service envi -
ronments, much like the limits for stress cor -
rosion cracking (SCC) in NACE MR0175 
(Figure 3 ).
TURBINE ADAPTATION 
Gas turbines that drive compressors draw their 
drive energy directly from the line. They must be 
adapted accordingly to the hydrogen admixture. 
The combustion characteristics of hydrogen 
differ from natural gas and other hydrocarbon 
fuels. This poses challenges for the design of hot 
gas path components. It is a challenge to control 
the flame, maintain combustion system integ -Figure 2: Hydrogen content possible in various Siemens Energy models.  

www.turbomachinerymag.comSPECIAL REPORT: HYDROGEN
November/December 2020  • Turbomachinery International20
rity, and reach the desired level of emissions.
Many gas turbines are already capable of 
operating on high percentages of hydrogen fuel, 
some at 100% hydrogen ( Figure 2 ). The capa -
bility of each unit depends on multiple factors, 
one being the type of combustion system the 
turbine utilizes, either dry-low emissions (DLE) 
or wet-low emissions (WLE). Existing turbines 
can be upgraded to allow increasing hydrogen 
content in the fuel or even work with 100% 
hydrogen in the future. 
In gas turbines with DLE combustion sys -
tems, fuel and air are mixed before combustion 
to control flame temperature. This, in turn, 
controls the rate of emissions. The relative pro -
portions of fuel and air are one of the driving 
factors for NOx and flame stability. Hydrogen’s 
higher reactivity poses challenges for the mix -
ing technology in DLE systems, including:
• Higher flame speeds increase the risk of the 
flame burning closer to the injection points, 
traveling back into mixing passages, or burn -
ing too close to liner walls. This risk increases 
as hydrogen content rises and with increasing 
combustion inlet and flame temperature.
• Hydrogen’s lower auto-ignition delay com -
pared to methane increases the likelihood 
of igniting the fuel in the mixing passages.
• Changes to thermoacoustic noise patterns 
because of the different flame heat release 
distribution can lower component life.
DLE combustion systems are available using 
swirl stabilized flames combined with lean pre -
mixing that can achieve low NOx emissions 
without diluting the fuel. Hardware and control 
system changes are also required for higher 
hydrogen fuel content to allow systems to operate 
safely, meet NOx emissions limits, and manage 
varying fuel compositions. A goal has been set of 
making industrial turbines with DLE capable of 
burning 100% hydrogen by 2023. 
Non-DLE technology uses diffusion flames 
or partially premixed flames. It can handle 
variability in fuel composition. On certain non-
DLE models, 100% hydrogen is already possi -
ble. A disadvantage is that diffusion flames 
require dilution to control NOx emissions. 
Higher flame temperatures mean higher NOx 
emissions without abatement. Dilution is 
achieved by the introduction of nitrogen, steam, 
or water into the flame:
Nitrogen dilution is often economical in 
power plant applications as it is a byproduct of 
gasification. Steam is also available in com -
bined cycle applications. However, this is not 
the case in compression stations, with the tur -
bine in mechanical drive. Additionally, for sin -
gle-shaft turbines, surge margin can be a chal -
lenge with diluted high-hydrogen fuels due to changes in the balance of volumetric flow 
between the compressor and turbine. This issue 
can typically be managed by making modifica -
tions to the compressor or turbine. 
THE ROAD AHEAD
A building block of a low-carbon energy system 
is a needs-based storage/transportation network 
to supply hydrogen to end-users. In parts of 
Europe, establishing a hydrogen infrastructure 
may be possible with little effort. The pipeline 
networks can gradually be converted to hydro -
gen operation with an investment of an esti -
mated 10-15% of the cost of new construction. ■
Peter Adam is Vice President 
Business Development for Oil 
& Gas for the Siemens Energy 
Industrial Applications  
business. He is also head of 
sustainable and hydrogen 
business development.
Dr. Ralf Bode is Manager of 
Core Technology teams for 
aerodynamics, mechanics, rotor -
dynamics, and materials for R&D 
for large turbocompressors in 
Germany and the U.S.
Markus Groissböck is Portfolio 
Marketing Manager and Energy 
System Designer for Decarbon -
ization Solutions in Germany. 
For more information, visit  
Siemens-energy.com
Figure 3:  Siemens Energy proposes a test method where corrosion-resistant 
autoclaves are required to perform the tests on pre-stressed specimens at elevated 
pressures and temperatures.
