www.gasturbineworld.com March 2023
Hybrid compressor 
drive for LNG plant
REPRINT
10    GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2023  www.gasturbineworld.comNear the intersection of the interstate 
Tennessee Gas Pipeline, a high-volt-age electric transmission corridor and the interstate highway in south central Massachusetts, a new Northeast Ener -
gy Center (NEC) LNG project is al-most completed and getting ready for plant start-up. 
The project considered of strategic im-
portance to the energy security of New England features one of the few utili-ty-scale natural gas liquefaction facil -
ities under development in the United States whose LNG is not intended for export – and, in fact, replacing import. 
At the heart of the LNG plant is a hy-
brid (gas-electric) integrally geared ni-trogen refrigeration compression train supplied by Siemens Energy, first of its kind in the world, which will uniquely enable:
• Supplementing on-site gas turbine with grid or micro-grid power to meet both refrigeration compression and onsite electricity needs
• Optimal selection of gas turbine size to minimize cost and environ-mental impact
• Reduction in fuel consumption and associated emissions at site 
• Transforming plant into net power exporter to local grid during season
-
al periods when full LNG capacity is not required or electric power is in high demandGas turbine vs. electric drivesFor many assets along the natural gas supply chain (e.g., LNG plants, gas processing facilities, compressor sta-tions, etc.) generating the horsepower required to drive refrigeration com-pression trains represents a large por -
tion of facility emissions and operating expense (OPEX). 
Gas turbine mechanical drives still 
serve as a reliable and efficient solu-tion. However, tightening federal and state regulations, rising public and community expectations, and voluntary environmental and social commitments by responsible energy providers make electrification increasingly attractive.
Electric motor drives offer several 
advantages over gas turbines such as lower maintenance costs, higher effi-ciency, and increased turndown capa -
bilities. But risks that come with a con-LNG production plant features a first-of-its-kind hybrid drive (gas 
turbine, electric motor/generator and integrally-geared compressor) refrigeration unit for optimized performance, flexibility, and economics – while minimizing environmental impactHybrid compressor drive for LNG plant  
vs. all-electric or all-mechanical design
By Joel Schubert, Siemens Energy and Boris Brevnov, Northeast Energy Center
Figure 1. NEC hybrid drive refrigeration compressor train package. The assem-
bled refrigeration train comprises an integrally geared type compressor (center) and 8MW dry low emissions (DLE) SGT-300 gas turbine (on the right) with a 4MW motor/generator (left) mounted on the same base plate as the compressor.
gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   10gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   10 5/23/23   1:51 PM5/23/23   1:51 PM
www.gasturbineworld.com    GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2023     11nection to the external grid, including 
reliability and voltage instability, can affect plant availability. 
For places close to major load centers, 
the cost of electricity may often be more expensive than gas. In addition, spikes in grid-power prices, demand charges, and congestion fees are also a concern. 
Hybrids combine best of both
A hybrid or dual drive combines two or more mechanical drive components such as a steam or gas turbine with an electric motor (or motor/generator) into a single train. 
This protects operators against being 
locked into a single energy source by giving them the flexibility to use natural gas, grid electricity, or a combination of the two to meet onsite energy demands. Several configurations are possible de-pending on the application and specific type of equipment being used. 
In the case of the NEC facility, which 
utilizes an STC-GV integrally geared nitrogen refrigeration compressor, a motor/generator is fixed to one end of the compressor shaft and an 8-MW dry-low emissions (DLE) SGT-300 in-dustrial gas turbine is coupled to the other. Siemens Energy is supplying all components for the packaged train unit. An artist rendition of the equipment package for this integrally geared hy-brid refrigeration train is shown in Fig-ure 1. In this configuration the com-
Table 1. Hybrid drive train performance.         
Data for hybrid N 2 refrigeration compressor drive train operating at nominal 250,000 gallons per day (GPD) LNG pro-
duction rate showing power split between gas turbine and motor/generator drives. Note fall-off in LNG production 
(bottom line) with increasing ambient temperature, without supplemental motor to fill shortfall in compressor power.  
 
Ambient Air Temperatur
e 30 deg F  60 deg F  90 deg F  95 deg F  
    
Compression T
rain      
Nitrogen mass flow  410,958 lb/hr  410,958 lb/hr  410,958 lb/hr  410,958 lb/hr
Inlet pressur
e 115.5 psia  115.5 psia  115.5 psia  115.5 psia
Inlet temperature  76.1°F  76.1°F  76.1°F  76.1°F  
Discharge pr
essure  475.5 psia  475.5 psia  475.5 psia  475.5 psia
Compressor power  11,421 hp  11,421 hp  11,421 hp  11,421 hp
Gas Turbine & Motor      
Gas turbine power output  12,037 hp  10,701 hp  9,264 hp  8,986 hp
Gas turbine efficiency (LHV)  36.0%  34,8%  33.0%  32.6%
Electric motor operating mode  Generator  Motor drive  Motor drive  Motor drive
Motor power (generator power)  (616) hp  720 hp  2,158 hp  2,435 hp  
 (460) kW  537 kW  1,610 kW  1,817 kW  
     
Percent power supplied by motor drive   n/a 6% 19%  21%
LNG production rate w/o motor drive  263,484 GPD  234,240 GPD  202,762 GPD  196,699 GPD
Figure 2. Compressor and motor drive skid. The Siemens Energy integrally geared compressor package (left) and 4MW motor/generator unit (right) mounted on the same base plate being prepared for shipment to NEC plant site.
gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   11gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   11 5/23/23   1:51 PM5/23/23   1:51 PM
12    GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2023  www.gasturbineworld.compressor is pinion-driven from the gas 
turbine side and bull gear-driven from the motor/generator side with no need for clutches or a separate gearbox. 
Figures 2 and 3 show individual equip-
ment skids prepared at the Siemens Energy Houston plant for shipment and installation at the NEC site. A single skid-mounted lube oil system will sup-ply conditioned oil for the entire train.
For trains that use single-shaft centrif -
ugal (i.e., turbo) compressors, a typical 
configuration could comprise a gas tur -
bine with a clutch on one side and an electric motor with a speed-increasing gearbox, and a clutch on the other side. 
Switching between the motor and the 
gas turbine is possible via engagement and disengagement of clutches, with minimal disruption to train operation. 
With hybrid drives, the electric motor 
could be the primary driver when low-cost electricity is available from the grid – with the gas turbine serving as back-up or as a power booster as with the NEC project. 
In this way a smaller, optimally sized 
gas turbine can be selected to operate fully loaded at maximum efficiency. The motor or motor/generator supplies any additional horsepower required for compression duty, a feature especially important at higher ambient tempera -
tures when gas turbine power falls off.
During colder periods, when the gas 
turbine might produce more horse-power than required, the motor/gen-erator (acting as a generator) can pro-duce electricity which may be used on site or sold to the grid. 
By always running the gas turbine at an 
optimal load, NOx and CO emissions are reduced, as are fuel consumption and associated CO
2 emissions.
Hybrid drives for process plants Siemens Energy has installed several hybrid drive trains in refinery applica-tions, specifically in exothermic (heat releasing) Purified Terephthalic Acid (PTA) process units. There, the equip-
Figure 3. Gas turbine drive skid. The fully enclosed Siemens Energy 8MW SGT-
300 gas turbine package mounted on its own base plate will be mated with the compressor/motor skid in the field.
Figure 4.
   SGT
-300 gas turbine delivery at NEC site. The gas turbine and com-
pressor/motor skids will be housed within the turbine compressor building under 
construction at the site.
gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   12gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   12 5/23/23   1:51 PM5/23/23   1:51 PM
www.gasturbineworld.com    GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2023     13ment train includes a steam turbine 
driver, integrally geared compressor, motor/generator, and a hot gas ex-pander. 
The motor/generator is initially used 
as a motor to drive the train to supply compressed air needed to start the pro-cess. Once operating, the process pro-duces steam and hot off-gas to power  the steam turbine and hot gas expand-er which drive  the motor/generator, now acting as a generator. 
Typically, this hybrid arrangement 
generates more electric power than can be used at the site and any excess can be exported to the local power grid.  
Hybrid drive configurations with larg-
er gas turbines have also been used in the chemical sector where the produc-tion process allows use of gas turbines as an alternative to steam turbines for driving compressors. 
In South America, for example, Sie-
mens Energy installed a train compris-ing an SGT-600 gas turbine (~25MW) with an STC-GV integrally geared compressor and motor/generator. Electric power generated by the train will be used directly for fertilizer pro-duction, reducing the power purchased from the grid.  
NEC project overview
The NEC project is positioned in south central Massachusetts near the Ten-nessee Gas Pipeline interstate pipeline system.  Plant scope includes a natu-ral gas liquefaction facility, LNG field erected storage and truck loading bays, a gas interconnection pipeline, and a gas meter station. 
ZAP Engineering & Construction Ser -
vices as EPC contractor on the project 
is responsible for design and construc-tion of the LNG facility. The liquefac -
tion process equipment, supplied by Chart Energy & Chemicals, includes a pretreatment unit to remove impuri -
ties from incoming natural gas and a nitrogen liquefaction refrigeration unit that will process treated natural gas to produce LNG.  The self-contained cold box in the Chart system encompasses the pri-mary cryogenic equipment including a brazed aluminum plate-fin heat ex-changer and knock-out drum for re-moval of heavier components of the natural gas feed, piping, valves and instrumentation (Figure 5). 
 
 Prioritizing costs and emissionsNEC’s decision to install 
a hybrid 
drive for the main nitrogen refrigera -
tion train was based on several factors – the most important being to mini -
mize costs and overall environmental impact. 
A traditional mechanically driven refrigeration train without a motor 
would have resulted in the need for a larger gas turbine to ensure sufficient horsepower is available to meet com-pression requirements during all oper -
ational scenarios and seasonal ambient and pipeline conditions. 
Since gas turbine power output de-
creases with increases in ambient tem-perature, matching equipment size and power requirements is a critical issue in regions such as New England to cope with significant seasonal tem-perature fluctuations.  
(Note: as a rule of thumb approxima -
tion, gas turbine power output changes Northeast Energy Center LNG Project
NEC’s new facility in south central Massachusetts is one of the few 
utility-scale natural gas liquefaction plants under development in the United States whose LNG is not intended for export. 
It will produce a baseload of 170,000 gallons per day of LNG for 
Boston Gas under firm contract plus up to another 80,000 GPD for sale to other utilities and industrial power generation customers.
It also will be the first in the world to use a hybrid LNG refriger -
ation compressor train powered by a relatively small gas turbine 
combined with an electric motor/generator. The combination will enable the hybrid system to meet power requirements and operate efficiently regardless of seasonal ambient air temperature changes.
Adding an electric motor drive to the refrigeration train allowed 
NEC to “undersize” the gas turbine so it would operate year-round at or near its most efficient full-load design point.
A traditional mechanical drive without a supplemental motor drive 
would require a larger gas turbine to ensure sufficient horsepower to meet compression requirements during the summer when high-er air temperatures result in reduced power output. 
During winter, with low ambient temperatures and higher power 
output, the larger gas turbine would have to be operated at partial load, reducing efficiency and increasing emissions.
With the NEC hybrid system, any excess power generated by the 
gas turbine at full load could produce electricity for export to the local grid as the motor would be operated as a generator.
For the NEC plant with the hybrid drive, gas turbine fuel consump-
tion decreases by 16% and associated CO
2 site emissions de-
crease by 14% – as written into the air permits.
gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   13gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   13 5/23/23   1:51 PM5/23/23   1:51 PM
14    GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2023  www.gasturbineworld.cominversely by about 0.5% for each 1°F 
change in ambient air temperature.)
Operators commonly specify an “over -
sized” gas turbine to ensure enough 
power can be generated during times of high ambient temperatures. This adds to the plant CAPEX, also means that during cold months the turbine must be operated sub-optimally at par -
tial load, thus reducing fuel efficiency and increasing emissions. 
Adding a motor/generator to the train 
allows NEC to operate the smaller op-timally sized gas turbine year-round at or near its most efficient full-load design point. During hot summer months, when gas turbine cannot meet compressor demand, the grid-connect-ed motor provides supplemental pow-er to bridge the gap.  
By running the smaller gas turbine in 
a more efficient operating range (70-100% load), NOx and CO emissions are reduced by 40% and 10%, respec-tively (to single-digit levels) versus running a larger gas turbine at reduced load. In addition, fuel consumption and as-sociated CO
2 emissions decrease by 
16% and 14%, respectively.  Based on employing the hybrid drive con-figuration, these emission reductions were written into the air permit for the project. 
For the future, NEC is exploring the 
potential use of hydrogen-blended fuel to further reduce emissions and help meet decarbonization goals. The SGT-300 industrial gas turbine with Dry Low Emissions (DLE) burners can burn up to 30% (vol) of hydrogen blended with natural gas. 
The SGT-300 can also operate on 
gas fuels outside of standard pipe-line quality over a Wobbe fuel range from approximately 50 MJ/m³ down to 17.5 MJ/m³) – including minimally processed weak biogas from ethanol, industrial waste gas, or landfill gas. 
Dual purpose motor/generator
As described, the drive motor can act dually as a generator when the gas tur -
bine produces more horsepower than required for compression. At the NEC plant up to 4MW of electrical power can be generated for site duty or for export to the grid. 
This is strategically important for NEC 
since electricity prices in New England are among the highest in the country. The ability to self-generate power at a cost roughly one-quarter the elec -
tric grid price will result in substantial cost savings while reducing the risk of plant downtime associated with grid disruptions.
Table 1 contains data representing the 
250,000 GPD maximum production design condition of the hybrid train. It shows the split between the gas tur -
bine and motor/generator in meeting total compressor power requirement of 11,421 hp over a 30°F to 95°F range of ambient temperature.
At 30°F, where gas turbine output ex-
ceeds this requirement, the surplus is shown as negative motor power (posi-tive generator output power). Note that at 95°F the motor/generator provides over 20 percent of the compressor power requirement for full production. Without the motor to provide this sup-plemental power the LNG production rate would fall off to about 197,000 GPD.
If the economics are favorable, NEC 
can export/sell self-generated surplus power back to the utility. This allows the plant not only to participate in de-mand-side management but also serve as a distributed generator. The case for hybridizationThe gas-electric drive installed at the NEC facility represents a highly flex-ible solution that will enable the liq-uefaction plant to operate at maximum efficiency year-round, regardless of ambient temperature and pipeline gas pressure conditions. 
This will reduce energy consumption 
over the project’s life and contribute to NEC’s decarbonization goals while reducing impacts on the surrounding community. 
The project has been a highly collabo -
N2 Compressor 
Turbine
Warm
Expander Compressor
  Cold
Expander CompressorN2 CompressorHeavy Hydrocarbons
Brazed Aluminum
Heat ExchangerTreated Gas
LNGHeavies
KO Drum
Cold BoxFigure 5. Refrigeration cycle for LNG production. Simplified process 
diagram for nitrogen refrigeration cycle and cryogenic unit to cool and liquefy treated natural gas. The self-contained coldbox features a brazed aluminum heat exchanger (BAHX) to handle the cryogenic duties.  (Courtesy: Chart Energy & Chemicals)
gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   14gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   14 5/23/23   1:51 PM5/23/23   1:51 PM
www.gasturbineworld.com    GAS TURBINE WORLD March 2023     15rative effort that involved close coor -
dination between all project stakehold-
ers, including NEC, Siemens Energy, ZAP Engineering & Construction, and Chart Energy & Chemicals. 
While it marks the first hybrid drive 
integrally geared compression train to be installed in the U.S., Siemens En-ergy has implemented similar config-urations at several industrial facilities across the globe. 
Ultimately, site-specific variables and 
operator objectives will dictate the de-cision to utilize a hybrid drive. How-ever, evolving environmental regula -
tions and permitting complexities in many regions of the world makes it a desirable option for meeting compres-sion duties, particularly in pipeline sta-tions, LNG plants, and gas processing facilities. 
 
The authors:  Joel Schubert is Direc-tor of Business Development, LNG at Siemens Energy and Boris Brevnov, is Manager/Developer Northeast Ener -
gy Center LLC
Figure 6. NEC project layout. Northeast Energy Center facility to include LNG production and storage, gas interconnection 
pipeline, gas meter station and truck loading bays. (Courtesy ZAP Engineering & Construction)
gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   15gtwmar23_FINAL.indd   15 5/23/23   1:51 PM5/23/23   1:51 PM