Ocean Green
The Path Toward Carbon-Free Ocean Crossing
siemens-energy.com
siemens-energy.com
Decarbonizing the entire energy 
value chain is the biggest challenge 
of our generation – and cutting 
down greenhouse gas emissions in 
LNG production and transport is 
part of it.
Siemens Energy has developed the Ocean Green concept, a 
new low emission power and propulsion system for deep sea 
shipping and in particular LNG carriers. The Ocean Green is a 
new inventive hybrid combined cycle power and propulsion 
plant utilizing gas turbine as the main engine in combination 
with steam turbine and energy storage for the electrical 
propulsion and distribution system.The Next Generation LNG & 
Hydrogen Carriers 
The transport of LNG across the world’s oceans requires more 
efficient solutions due to increasing environmental  
regulations as well as requirements to reduce cost. The  
incorporation of Siemens Energy marine type energy storage 
has proven a wide range of benefits for more than 60  
references in the marine industry. The energy storage will 
enable stable, reliable, and high efficiency generator  
operation with power peak shaving, power boost, and 
black-out prevention. The reduced heating demand will 
further reduce fuel consumption and improve performance.
As new environmental restrictions are implemented across 
the globe, ship operators have become increasingly focused 
on reducing emissions of their operations, and at the same 
time the need of reducing the cost of operations. In  
comparison to existing best in class power and propulsion  
technology, the Ocean Green Hybrid CC will significantly 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and help vessel owners 
comply with the new IMO regulations. The compact engine 
room layout, enabled by the SGT-400 gas turbine, allows for 
increased cargo capacity, thereby improving the unit freight 
cost.
Ocean Green
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 2
Siemens Energy’s Ocean Green 
Hybrid CC: 
Ocean Green
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 3
Reduced operational cost
• Reduced unit freight cost 
• Reduced maintenance cost
• Less manning 
• Reduced fuel and lubrication consumption 
Environmentally friendly
• Reductions in GHG 
• Significant reduction in methane slip 
• Low noise and low vibrations
• Zero emission road mapImproved vessel design
• Compact machine room design using SGT-400
• Increased cargo capacity by 
• Simplification by removing auxiliary systems
• Improved maneuvering capabilities
Operational flexibility
• Low energy consumption during waiting operations
Gas Turbine Lifecycle Support
• Global service provider
• Significant reduction of maintenance time
• Fast Emergency Exchange
• Optimised Maintenance Plan
• Maximised turbine availability through 24/7 Remote  
Monitoring
• Full Training and Support available on site and remotely.
Future-proof design complying to IMO CII regulation decarbonization 
trajectory
Ocean Green
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 4
Published by
Siemens Energy AS
Østre Aker vei 88
0596 Oslo
Norway
For more information, please visit our website:
www.siemens-energy.com/oil-gas   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.All rights reserved.
Trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of Siemens AG, its 
affiliates, or their respective owners. Subject to change without prior notice. 
The information in this document contains general descriptions of the 
technical options available, which may not apply in all cases. The required 
technical options should therefore be specified in the contract.
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 5
Ocean Green