According to the US Geological Survey (USGS), 
approximately 30% of the world’s undiscovered 
natural gas is in the Arctic region.1 While extracting 
gas from these reserves is no small task, neither is 
developing the infrastructure to safely and cost-effectively 
deliver it to destination markets. Developing LNG plants in 
such harsh and remote operating environments presents 
unique challenges in an already complicated undertaking. 
Siemens has extensive experience helping operators 
overcome the adversities of Arctic LNG development, with 
a focus on design and power solutions. One example where 
the benefits of these solutions have been on display is the 
Yamal LNG project in Russia (Figure 1).
About Yamal
The Yamal LNG project is one of the world’s largest 
LNG facilities and features an integrated natural gas liquefaction complex with a capacity of 16.5 million tpy. 
It is currently being developed from gas reserves within 
the South Tambey Field near Sabetta, northeast of the 
Yamal Peninsula in Siberia. The production complex will 
consist of three process liquefaction trains with a capacity 
of 5.5 million tpy each. Plans outlined for the Yamal 
LNG project include the construction of an LNG plant, a 
processing facility for gas and condensate treatment, gas 
transmission pipelines and well sites. A power plant with a 
designed capacity of 376 MW is also being constructed to 
support the LNG plant’s operations with electricity and heat.
The Yamal Peninsula is estimated to hold some of the 
largest gas reserves on the planet. However, it is also known 
for its inhospitable conditions, which makes developing the 
infrastructure to capitalise on these resources a daunting 
challenge. For example, the region is primarily made up of 
marshes, which presents many difficulties for drilling and Margarita Panina, Siemens, Russia, and 
Navneet Jindal, Siemens, Singapore,  explain how an 
LNG facility in remote Siberia is overcoming harsh 
conditions with cost-effective design and development. 
   Reprinted from November 2018construction operations. Adding to this is the fact that, for a 
significant portion of the year, daylight is limited. The 
Yamal Peninsula is also highly remote, with virtually no local 
workforce. This is especially the case when it comes to the 
type of specialised personnel that is required to execute 
large scale oil and gas projects. Owing to the harsh 
environmental conditions and limited infrastructure in the 
region, the construction of the Yamal LNG facility is being 
carried out in offsite locations using modularisation.  
Selecting equipment for harsh 
climates
Siemens has played a crucial role in the development of the 
Yamal LNG project, supplying critical components for the 
376 MW power station, including eight SGT-800 industrial 
gas turbines, as well as nine step-up transformers. Four of 
the turbines are equipped with waste heat recovery units. 
The SGT-800 industrial gas turbine (Figure 2) is especially 
qualified for harsh climatic conditions, such as those in areas 
north of the Arctic Circle with temperatures below -50 °C.
Short installation and commissioning time was required 
onsite due to the extremely remote location and the cold 
climate. To facilitate this, all eight SGT-800 gas turbines 
went through factory testing at a Siemens test facility in 
Finspång, Sweden (Figure 3). For the first unit, a string test 
was performed in order to verify operation of the turbine 
package, including the generator. For the other seven units, 
the core engines were tested in the factory’s mechanical 
running test (MRT) facility. All eight turbines were 
manufactured and dispatched to the site on time. Seven of 
the turbines are currently in operation, with the eighth set to 
come online later this year.  
Siemens and Yamal also signed an equipment 
maintenance contract for the facility’s power plant. The 
contract allows for stepwise expansion of gas turbine 
maintenance localisation in Russia, customer personnel 
training and training simulators and programs. As part of the contract, the gas turbines will be linked with a 
Moscow-based remote centre for equipment monitoring. The 
contract is one of the only agreements in which the field 
developers decided on maintenance of an LNG plant’s 
equipment for the entire project base period of 22 years.
Modular e-houses
In addition to the turbines and maintenance contract, 
Siemens supplied 29 modular e-houses (Figure 4) for Yamal, 
including the world’s longest and heaviest building with 
dimensions of 90 m x 40 m and weighing 2500 t. Siemens 
facilities all over the globe procured the major electrical and 
automation equipment for the e-houses. The engineering 
was carried out by the team in Singapore, while the Siemens 
fabrication yard in Batam, Indonesia, was used for the 
construction of the modules. The e-houses were delivered in 
five separate batches, the last of which arrived safely and on 
time in May 2017.
As pre-fabricated electrical substations, fully equipped 
with medium-voltage switchgear, low-voltage switchboards, 
busbar trunking systems and auxiliary equipment, e-houses 
are the optimal approach to install electrical power and 
control equipment for a fast and reliable power supply in 
harsh environments. The e-houses for Yamal were 
developed, manufactured, assembled and pre-tested at the 
construction yard, then connected and put into operation 
onsite. 
Various types of e-houses are available to suit any 
application requirement. A standard e-house, for instance, 
consists of one module on a pre-cast foundation, whereas a 
mobile substation is an e-house module on wheels or 
support that can be relocated with its foundation. 
Multi-modular e-houses are also available. They consist of 
several modules that are placed on a foundation, either on 
top of or next to each other. This enables transportation of 
large houses and ensures optimal use of available space. 
E-houses can be installed on raised platforms to protect 
Figure 1.  Yamal LNG facility, with the power plant in the centre (courtesy of Yamal LNG).
Reprinted from November 2018    them from flooding, and to allow for installation of cable 
tray and bus duct systems underneath the structure, thereby 
minimising the need for excavation.
Modularised ‘plug and play’ e-houses can provide many 
benefits to LNG projects, particularly those located in harsh 
environments. Some of these include the following.
Cost savings
E-houses are standardised solutions that can offer 
cost-saving potential of up to 20%. Much of these savings 
are attributable to lower planning costs and reduced civil 
work onsite. Savings are also realised by pre-fabricating 
modules offsite in a controlled environment, which reduces 
dependency on expensive skilled labour in remote areas and 
ensures the quality of the equipment being built.   Shorter schedules and reduced 
construction risk
Because e-houses arrive fully equipped and pre-tested, 
there is no risk of construction or commissioning delays 
due to uncontrollable factors, such as inclement weather. 
As ‘plug and play’ solutions, e-houses can often be rapidly 
installed and brought into operation, reducing lead times 
by as much as 25%. Minimising the need for onsite work 
also reduces the likelihood of interference or overlapping 
between onsite activities, which can be problematic with 
large scale projects such as LNG facilities. 
Improved EHS performance
Another added benefit of using ‘plug and play’ e-houses for 
LNG projects in harsh climates is improved environmental, 
health and safety (EHS) performance. At the Yamal LNG 
project, for instance, all 29 modules (which were some 
of the largest and heaviest ever built for an LNG project) 
were delivered with lower than 0.1 total recordable injury 
rate (TRIR – the number of reportable cases suffered by 
the workforce for every 200 000 hours worked), which is 
significantly lower than industry averages. Overall, the Yamal 
project achieved more than 15 million safe working hours.
Looking ahead
In the coming years, as operators increasingly venture into 
remote regions of the world to capitalise on abundant oil 
and gas resources, the demand for innovative equipment 
solutions and associated infrastructure that can improve 
safety, reduce costs and mitigate risk will increase 
immensely. 
While modular e-houses have been employed in the oil 
and gas industry for many years, they are becoming an 
increasingly popular option in remote areas, such as the 
Arctic, where harsh conditions and limited access to skilled 
labour can increase project cost and complexity. In these 
cases, conventional site-built power substations are often 
too expensive or time-consuming. In other cases, the 
project schedule or the actual space does not allow for 
site-built construction, and building permits for 
conventional buildings are not available. E-houses are the 
ideal solution in all these cases. They can be installed 
rapidly, thus reducing interferences with other activities, 
and can easily be adapted to virtually any situation and 
application. 
The Yamal LNG project in Siberia is a prime example of 
the many benefits that can be achieved when world class 
best practices and global integration of knowledge and 
expertise are combined with innovative equipment solutions, 
such as ‘plug and play’ modular e-houses. The strategies 
employed by Siemens and other key stakeholders to 
successfully deliver this mega-project on time and with 
record EHS performance can be used as a basis for the 
development of future LNG projects, particularly those that 
are being proposed in highly remote and inhospitable 
regions. 
Reference
1. Source: MAP: Undiscovered Artic Oil and gas and Potential 
Trade Routes. https://www.brookings.edu/blog/brookings-
now/2014/03/26/map-undiscovered-arctic-oil-and-gas-and-
potential-trade-routes/.
Figure 2.  Siemens SGT-800 industrial gas turbine.
Figure 3.  String test at Siemens’ test facility in Finspång, 
Sweden.
Figure 4.  E-House module at Yamal site.
The described technologies in this article now belong to the Siemens Energy portfolio.  