Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , November 23, 2021  
Siemens Energy secures major order for the 
largest LNG -to-power complex in Latin 
America  
• Turnkey 1. 7-gigawatt combined cycle power plant  
• Long -term service agreement and operation & m aintenance  
• Affordable and efficient power for around 14 million households  
• Total project amount is approximately €1 billion  
 
Siemens Energy has secured an order for the turnkey construction of the combined cycle power 
plant UTE GNA II in the integrated LNG -to-Power project GNA II, located at Port of Açu, in the 
Brazilian state of Rio de Janeiro. Construction of the power plant is already ongoing.  Customer is the 
project company Gás Natural Açu (GNA). Following the successful commissioning of GNA I in 
summer  2021, GNA II will be the second turnkey combined cycle power plant that Siemens Energy 
will build i n the thermoelectric hub and will add further  capacity of 1. 7 gigawatts (GW). With a 
combined capacity of 3 GW the two po wer plants will be able to provide  enough  electricity for the 
consumption of around 14 million households . The second order comes with the first application of 
the highly efficient HL class gas turbine in Brazil. The combined cycle plants powered by liquefied 
natura l gas (LNG) will be the most efficient thermal power plants in Latin America. Total project 
amount is approximately €1 billion . 
 
The scope for Siemens Energy foresees the entire power island delivery, that consists in three highly 
efficient HL class gas tu rbines, one steam turbine, four electric generators and three heat recovery 
steam generators (HRSG), in addition to instrumentation and control systems. The services offered 
by Siemens Energy will also cover long -term operation and maintenance (O&M) of the  plant, 
including advanced remote monitoring and diagnostics by the Remote Operation Center, located in 
Jundiaí, São Paulo. The power plant is being built together with the consortium partner Andrade 
Gutierrez who will provide the civil works, the infrastr ucture and the erection works.  
 
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
“Our participation in this outstanding project reinforces how our comprehensive LNG -to-Power 
approach increases value to our partners, and also meets the need for affordable and reliable 
energy,” said Jochen Eickholt, Executive Board Member of Siemens Ener gy AG. “This project is 
strategic, not only for its grandeur, but also for its geographical location, close to the two main gas 
pipelines systems in Brazil, in the Northeast and Southeast of the country. And not to forget: Our 
gas turbines for GNA II are r eady to burn hydrogen in the future. This means our technology is 
future -proof for our customers,” Eickholt added.  
 
The Açu Natural Gas project includes the construction of two thermal power plants, as well as an 
LNG regasification terminal, based on an FS RU (Floating Storage Regasification Unit), plus 
substations and transmission lines to connect the plants to the National Interconnected System. The 
thermoelectric complex is part of the Açu Gás Hub, a project under development at the Açu Port 
Complex aimed  to provide a logistical solution for the receipt, processing, conversion to electricity 
and transport of natural gas in the Campos and Santos basins, as well as for importing and storing 
LNG. A second phase will comprise additional thermal power projects under the environmental 
license for 6.4 GW owned by GNA.  
 
The construction of the GNA I plant started in January 2018 and this plant began its commercial 
operation in September 2021. The two power plants will supply energy to regions such as Espírito 
Santo , Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro within the National Interconnected System.  
 
Contact for journalists  
 
Alfons Benzinger  
Phone:   +49 174 155 9447  
E-mail:     alfons.benzinger@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
For further information  on Division Generation, please see https://bit.ly/3Dekxbw  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
  
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almos t the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of t he electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €28.5  billion in fiscal year 2021 . 
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 