 
Siemens  Energy is a registered mark licensed from Siem ens AG . 
 Page  1 of 2  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  Munich, December 10, 2020   
Siemens Energy and Novatek to  
collaborate on more sustainable  LNG 
production  
• Siemens Energy will provide innovative high -technology solutions to 
Novatek with the  overall  goal  of reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions  by using hydrogen and  increasing energy efficie ncy in LNG 
production  
• Strategies to be evaluated include integrating  low-carbon power 
generation, optimizing LNG production, and producing blue and green 
hydrogen  
 
Siemens Energy has partnered  with Russia -based natural gas producer , 
Novatek , to implement technologies and concepts to reduce  emissions 
from existing and prospective power plants for LNG facilities  and improve 
environmental and process efficiencies in LNG liquefaction trains.   
 
The agreement defines the framework and targets for joint activities and 
projects  to support  Novatek’s  decarbonization objectives  and goal to 
become the  world’s  leading supplier of clean  LNG. Novatek  intends to 
benefit from Siemens Energy’s extensive technology  portfolio  and 
expertise in sustainable energy solutions  to lower GHG emissions and 
enhance the overall sustainability of LNG production .  
 
The parties intend to cooperate, in particular, on projects to increase 
energy efficiency and the application  of digital technologies, the use of 
hydrogen and other carbon -neutral fuels for energy generation , the 
production of "green" and "blue" hydrogen, as well as in solutions for 
carbon capture, utilization and storage.  
 Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Janet Ofano  
Phone: +1 803 -389-6753  
E-mail:  
Janet.Ofano@siemens.com  
 
Press release  
Siemens  Energy is a registered mark licensed from Siem ens AG . 
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Page  2 of 2  The partnership  builds on the two parties ’ longstanding business  
relationship  and history of collaborati ng on  world -class LNG 
developments, including the Yamal a nd Arctic  LNG2 projects – both of 
which are located in the Yamal -Nenets Region in Northern Russia. In 
2015, Siemens Energy supplied f our boil-off gas ( BOG ) compressors  and 
eight SGT -800 units with one core engine  to the Yamal pro ject, along 
with 29  o f the largest  and heaviest  modular e-houses ever constructed. 
For ArcticLNG2, Siemens Energy is providing six BOG  compressors and 
three feed gas booster compressors.  
 
Christian Bruch, CEO of Siemens Energy:  
“With our extensive portfolio, from fossil fuels to renewables , we are  
uniquely positioned to  support  the LNG sector drive toward a more 
sustainable future,” said Christian Bruch, CEO Siemens Energy. “The oil 
and gas  industry  faces the challenge of reducin g its carbon footprint and 
meet the world’s growing demand for power in the most  environmentally 
responsible manner.  We are pleased by the trust of Novatek  to address 
those challenges in close collaboration. ” 
 
 
 
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is 
available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’ s leading energy technology companies. The  
company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus  
supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products,  
solutions and services, Siemens Energy co vers almost the entire energy value chain – 
from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional  
and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants  
operated with hydrogen, and power genera tors and transformers. More than 50 percent  
of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company  
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market  
leader for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated  
worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more  
than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of  
around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -ener gy.com . 