A KHL Group publicationCAT’S NEW HMI PANEL                                       
UNIFORMITY FOR ENGINES           NEW SIEMENS’ MILESTONES    
SGT-750 GAS TURBINEA FIRST FOR MAN MAX1
BLAST FURNACE INSTALLATION
OCTOBER 2019 |  www.compressortech2.com
VOLUME 24 | ISSUE 8
   
Karen 
Buchwald 
Wright:
A look at Ariel’s 
past, present 
and near future
EXECUTIVE 
OUTLOOK:
Francesca 
Cozzani
EXECUTIVE OUTLOOK:
EXECUTIVE 
OUTLOOK:
Francesca 
Cozzani
EXECUTIVE 
OUTLOOK:
Francesca 
Cozzani
CT2 10 2019 Front Cover JG DJ BARN DOOR.indd   1 23/09/2019   17:11:57
PRODUCT NEWS
SIEMENS’ SGT-750
SGT-750 gas turbine 
hits new milestones 
In recent years, oil and gas operators 
across the supply chain have faced 
increased pressure to improve efficiency 
and minimize environmental impacts. During 
this time, Siemens’ SGT-750 industrial gas 
turbine has been frequently selected for 
power generation and mechanical drive 
applications. 
Optimized for direct drives without 
intermediate gears and with a rotational 
speed of 6100 rpm, the 41 MW SGT-750 gas 
turbine enables long intervals between 
maintenance events, helping customers 
increase production uptime and reduce 
facility lifecycle costs, Siemens said. Since the first unit went into service in 
2013, the fleet has accrued more than 61,000 
hours of operating service worldwide.
In 2018, the SGT-750 turbine underwent 
its first hot path overhaul at 36,000 hours. 
The components that were inspected 
showed minimum wear and demonstrated 
the capability to further extend the overhaul 
cycle, Siemens said.
The SGT-750 goes to Mexico
In 2015, Siemens supplied three SGT-750s 
to Mexican midstream operator Fermaca 
for use in its El Encino compression 
station in Chihuahua. The trains recently 
became operational and play a key role in 
transporting natural gas from Waha, Texas, 
to power plants and industrial parks in 
Chihuahua, Coahuila and Durango, as well 
as to central and western Mexico. The three 
turbocompressor trains have an installed 
rated power output totaling 155,000 hp 
(115,583 kW) and a compression capacity of 
1.2 Bcfd (33.9 X 106 m3/d). 
The Fermaca project marks the first installation where an SGT-750 is being 
used as a mechanical drive unit coupled 
with STC-SV pipeline compressors. The 
turbine provides a 13-stage compressor 
with a pressure ratio of 24:1 and mechanical 
efficiency of 41.6%. The SGT-750 minimizes 
starting power requirements but delivers a 
high starting torque and variable compressor 
speeds from 50% to 105%. 
North of the border  
Earlier this year, Encana selected the SGT-
750 for its Pipestone processing facility in 
Alberta, Canada. For the project, Siemens 
will provide one feed and sales gas train, 
along with a refrigeration compression train. 
The feed and sales gas train will use an 
SGT-750 to drive two Dresser-Rand Datum 
compressors, combined with a Siemens 
waste heat recovery unit for process heat. 
The refrigeration train will consist of an 
electric motor-driven Datum compressor 
with a Siemens variable frequency drive. The 
Datum compressor line is suited for unspared 
feed/sales gas and refrigeration compression KIRK STALIS  has more than 20 
years of experience in the rotating 
equipment industry in various roles 
in engineering, project management, 
business development, commercial and 
proposals management. He serves as the 
Proposal Director for Gas Turbines for Siemens 
Oil and Gas.
THE AUTHOR
FIGURE    Siemens’ SGT-750 industrial gas 
turbine, which is optimized for direct drives 
without intermediate gears and with a 
rotational speed of 6100 rpm.Siemens equipment gets selected for midstream, 
downstream, offshore applications. By Kirk Stalis
REPRINTED FROM COMPRESSORTECH2 OCTOBER 2019
PRODUCT NEWS
SIEMENS’ SGT-750
applications, Siemens said.
The Pipestone processing facility will 
provide Encana with 19,000 b/d of net raw 
condensate processing capacity, plus 170 
MMcfd (4.8 X 106 m3/d) of net inlet natural 
gas processing capacity. Keyera will own the 
Pipestone processing facility and provide 
processing services to Encana. The facility 
will have a total processing capacity of 200 
MMcfd (5.7 X 106 m3/d) and is expected to 
start up in 2021. 
The project marks the first gas processing 
plant application of the SGT-750 in North 
America.  Siemens will supply all the 
equipment for the two compression trains, 
which will reduce interfacing complexity for 
Encana and contribute to streamlined project 
delivery, Siemens said.
Something new in the downstream
Another SGT-750 milestone occurred this 
year when the first-ever downstream 
application of the unit became operational in China. The turbine (Figure 1) is being 
used to drive two Siemens single-shaft 
STC-SH compressors for a reactor effluent 
compressor train at Zhejiang Satellite Energy 
Co.’s propane dehydrogenation (PDH) plant in 
the Zhejiang province. 
This order follows a previous one from 
Zhejiang Satellite Energy for the PDH project 
in 2013, which consisted of a compressor 
train featuring two STC-SH compressors 
and an SGT-700 gas turbine. The single-
shaft compressor comes with standardized 
components for ease of maintenance, 
making it suited for petrochemical process 
applications with a wide range of volume 
flows, the company said.
Compared with steam turbine-driven or 
electric motor-driven compressor options, 
which are more commonly used in PDH 
processes, gas turbine-driven solutions allow 
operators to burn waste gas generated in 
the process. This provides fuel savings and, 
in turn, lower lifecycle costs. Siemens has 
experience in burning a wide range of waste 
gas with dry low emission (DLE) technology. 
This, along with the SGT-750’s attributes, 
were critical factors in it being used for the 
plant, Siemens said.
The fourth-generation DLE burner included 
with the SGT-750 turbine enables it to operate 
on a wide variety of fuels. This includes fuels 
with high amounts of inert gases; very lean fuels containing natural gas diluted with 
more than 40% CO 2 and more than 50% 
N2; and highly reactive gases containing 
high concentrations of C 2+ and H 2. The 
combustion system can also automatically 
handle quick variations of the Wobbe index 
thanks to the Active Wobbe Algorithm (AWA) 
integrated into the control system. 
Despite the high concentration of ethane 
in the gas used for firing at the PDH facility, 
the turbine achieves low NOx emissions of 
25 ppm. The continuously controlled fuel 
control to the burners enables a permanent 
stable operation in the load range with no 
need for complicated staging sequences in 
different load regimes or seasonal mapping. 
In other applications with more favorable gas 
compositions, the SGT-750 has been able 
to achieve emissions as low as 9 ppm NOx 
down to 20% load. 
First offshore application in the 
Barents Sea
For offshore facilities, particularly floating, 
production, storage and offloading (FPSO) 
vessels, profitability is becoming increasingly 
contingent on the use of topsides packages 
that can efficiently deliver the horsepower to 
exploit resources in a range of water depths 
and operating conditions. At the same time, 
operators must be cognizant of lowering 
emissions, reducing OPEX and minimizing the 
weight and footprint of modules. 
The SGT-750 is designed to meet 
these objectives, Siemens said. In 2018, 
Siemens received the contract to engineer, 
manufacture and commission a compression 
train utilizing the SGT-750 for Equinor’s FPSO 
FIGURE  3   
The SGT-750 core engine exchange, which 
demonstrated the ability to remove the core 
from the package and replace it to minimize 
downtime during maintenance. FIGURE  2   
The SGT-750’s removal 
from the package. 
The SGT-750 has been 
used in midstream, 
downstream and 
offshore applications.PRODUCT NEWS
SIEMENS’ SGT-750
REPRINTED FROM COMPRESSORTECH2 OCTOBER 2019
PRODUCT NEWS
SIEMENS’ SGT-750
FIGURE  4   
Siemens’ STC-SH single-shaft compressor 
with a horizontally-split casing offers a robust 
design with standardized components for 
maintenance simplicity.
vessel in the Johan Castberg oilfield on the 
Norwegian shelf in the Barents Sea. 
The turbine will drive two Dresser-Rand 
Datum compressors operating in a tandem 
arrangement. The GT package was specially 
designed for harsh environments and 
features a unique design that eliminates 
the need for a speed-increasing gearbox, 
which reduces its weight and footprint. 
The compressors will reinject gas into the 
oil reservoir, providing pressurization and 
eliminating the need for capture or flaring,  
the latter of which is not permissible in the 
region. 
For the FPSO, Siemens will also supply 
a waste heat recovery unit to recover 
gas turbine exhaust heat, which will be used for process heating and anti-icing. 
The turbine was delivered earlier this year 
and was subject to extensive testing to 
ensure the necessary levels of reliability 
and serviceability. The testing included a 
demonstration of an engine exchange to 
showcase the ability to remove the core from 
the package and replace it to minimize the 
downtime during the maintenance period 
(Figures 2 and 3).Fit for oil and gas applications
The SGT-750 was designed to incorporate 
the size and weight advantages of an 
aeroderivative gas turbine while maintaining 
the robustness and flexibility of heavy-duty 
models. With 68,000 operating hours to a first 
major overhaul and a service plan with only 
17 maintenance days in 17 years, the turbine 
has become a popular option in oil and gas 
applications, Siemens said. CT2
IN NEED OF REPLACEMENT CYLINDERS?
740-435-0240     ACIServices.comWhen your OEM no longer supports your existing cylinders, call ACI. 
We manufacture replacement cylinders for all makes & models of 
reciprocating compressors.  ACI’s custom cylinder replacements 
are cost-effective and will get you back up and running in no time!  
Keep your existing compressors running  
with new cylinders from ACI!
If you enjoyed this article, subscribe to 
the COMPRESSORTECH2 magazine.  
www.compressortech2.com/subscribe
