World Oil® / JULY 2021  43 
Siemens Energy’s Brath says progress being made 
offshore on energy storage, grids and digitalizationMANAGEMENT ISSUES: OFFSHORE ESGHere is one industry leader’s candid assessment of steps being taken offshore  
to address ESG and sustainability goals in operations
 ŝ World Oil  exclusive interview  
with Bjørn Einar Brath
As concerns grow about ESG con -
siderations in the daily operations of 
the global upstream industry, a number 
of initiatives are underway to improve 
efficiencies while reducing carbon foot -
prints. Among the efforts being un -
dertaken offshore are applications and 
improvements in energy storage, power 
grids and digitalization.
Recently, Managing Director of Sie -
mens Energy’s Oslo, Norway Operations,  
Bjørn Einar Brath offered his assessment 
of how well the industry is progressing 
on these efforts, and where new technol -
ogy initiatives may be popping up next.
World Oil (WO): With the growing 
push to meet ESG guidelines and 
goals, how big a global market do you think energy storage can 
be within the offshore oil and gas 
industry?
Bjørn Einar Brath (BEB):  Over the 
past few years, we have seen significant 
growth in the market for energy stor -
age solutions offshore, particularly in 
the drilling sector. Most of the demand 
is coming from customers in regions 
like offshore Norway and the United 
Kingdom, where emissions reductions 
are heavily incentivized. The growing 
potential in these areas for harnessing 
intermittent power from offshore wind 
farms also has been a contributing factor. 
As the focus on sustainability and decar -
bonization increases, energy storage will 
expand into different regions and appli -
cations. We believe it will play an integral 
role in the industry’s journey to a low-
carbon future.
WO: What are some of the specific 
applications for energy storage in 
the offshore sector?
BEB:  There are several. On drilling rigs, 
excess energy produced by onboard 
generator sets can be stored in batteries. 
This energy can then be used to opti -
mize loading on diesel engines, which 
reduces fuel consumption and associated 
emissions. This is particularly beneficial 
on semisubmersible rigs and drillships, 
which have highly variable power de -
mands for drilling, dynamic positioning, 
and station-keeping. It also can be used 
as a spinning reserve for peak shaving or 
backup power to prevent a total blackout.
Another area where energy storage is 
being evaluated is in conjunction with 
offshore wind in off-grid applications. In 
such cases, floating wind turbines would 
be equipped with individual battery sys -tems to create “microgrids. ” Any energy 
produced and/or stored in the microgrid 
will be transmitted via a power cable to 
one or more facilities. These could be 
production platforms, FPSOs, or drilling 
installations.
We see a near-future, where microgrids 
could also serve as charging stations for 
all-electric or hybrid support vessels. 
These are concepts that Siemens Energy 
is currently working on with customers.
WO: BlueVault™ is Siemens 
Energy’s lithium-ion energy 
storage solution for offshore. 
Can you tell us about some of 
the projects, where it has been 
implemented?
BEB:  BlueVault ( Fig. 1 ) was commercial -
ized in 2018 and has been installed in 
more than 50 offshore and marine assets 
worldwide. The first application in the 
offshore drilling market was on the West 
BJØRN EINAR BRATH,  Managing 
Director of Siemens Energy Oslo, 
Norway Operations
Fig. 1.  Siemens Energy’s BlueVault battery 
system is suited for both all-electric and 
hybrid power applications. It’s specifically 
designed to minimize emissions and 
ensure continuity of power on offshore 
vessels.
Originally  appeared in  World Oil® JULY 2021  issue, pgs 43-45. Posted with permission.
44  JULY 2021  / WorldOil.com
MANAGEMENT ISSUES: OFFSHORE ESGMira  semisubmersible ( Fig. 2 ) in the 
North Sea during 2018. With the installa -
tion, West Mira  became the first-ever low-
emissions (diesel-electric) drilling rig to 
use lithium-ion energy storage.
The batteries are charged from the rig’s 
diesel generators and used for supplying 
power during peak load times. They also 
provide power to the thrusters and es -
sential drilling load, in the unlikely event 
of loss of power generation. Overall, the 
battery system on West Mira  enables run 
time of on-platform diesel engines to be 
reduced 42%—lowering CO 2 and NOx 
emissions by 15% and 12%, respectively.
We recently completed a project with 
Maersk Drilling to upgrade two ultra-
harsh environment CJ70 jackup drilling rigs in the North Sea with hybrid power 
plants, using BlueVault energy storage 
and an E-house. Early performance data 
show that in the first month of opera -
tions, the solution, in conjunction with 
other upgrades made by Maersk Drilling, 
allowed the Intrepid to reduce CO 2 emis -
sions 25% and NOx emissions 95%, com -
pared to the baseline average for the rig. 
We believe that as many as 300 jackups 
worldwide may be eligible candidates 
for similar upgrades with BlueVault so -
lutions. Upgrading all of these facilities 
could potentially reduce emissions by 
more than 1 million tons of CO 2 per year.
WO: You’re also working with 
customers to implement DC grids on drilling rigs. Can you talk about 
the advantages they provide, 
especially when combined with 
energy storage?
BEB:  Unlike AC grids, DC grids are 
frequency-independent. This improves 
overall power plant reliability, because 
there are no reactive power reactions 
or harmonic issues. Another advantage 
is that they enable seamless integration 
with energy storage, including batteries, 
flywheels, or hydrogen fuel cells.
Siemens Energy is currently working 
with Odfjell Drilling to retrofit its newest 
deepwater, semi-submersible drilling rigs 
in the North Sea with our BlueDrive low-
voltage DC-grid system, Fig. 3.  With the 
upgrades, the rigs will push the boundar -
ies for conventionally powered offshore 
rigs and set a new technological standard 
in Odfjell’s strategy toward zero-emis -
sions drilling.
We are also currently developing a 
medium-voltage DC grid system that 
could be used on production facilities 
and rigs of the future.
WO: What about safety? What 
types of measures is Siemens 
Energy taking to ensure the 
performance and safety of 
batteries?
BEB:  That is an excellent question. For 
energy storage to be used in marine and 
offshore, it must be fail-safe. In the case 
of BlueVault solutions, the batteries’ tem -
perature is regulated with a 3D water-
cooling system, which works as a passive 
safety layer to prevent thermal runaway. 
In the unlikely event of thermal runaway 
on a cell, an exhaust pipe system conveys 
produced gases outside the battery room 
into fresh air, making the battery room a 
100%-safe workplace.
Another differentiating feature is the 
system’s advanced, digitalized, condi -
tion monitoring system, which provides 
state of health (SOH) and state of charge 
(SOC) transparency for individual cells. 
Each battery module contains roughly 
60 monitoring points, which means that 
in a 1-MWh battery system, there are as 
many as 15,000 data points collected and 
transferred to a data repository, Fig. 4.  
Monitoring these parameters facilitates 
efficient battery management and en -
sures that cells are in their intended op -
erating range, so that overcharging and Fig. 3.  Siemens Energy’s BlueDrive DC-Grid technology is an efficient, environmentally 
friendly solution that provides high levels of reliability, availability, and ease of service, 
with low emissions.
Fig. 2.  West Mira  is the world’s first drilling rig to operate a low-emission hybrid power 
plant using Siemens Energy’s lithium-ion energy storage solution. Image courtesy of 
photographer Neil Robertson.

World Oil® / JULY 2021  45 
MANAGEMENT ISSUES: OFFSHORE ESGover-discharging are avoided.
WO: On the topic of digitalization, 
how else can it be leveraged to 
improve offshore operations, 
particularly in power plants?
BEB:  Digitalization holds enormous po -
tential in helping the offshore industry 
not only enhance efficiency and reduce 
costs but also decarbonize.
T ake, for example, a production fa -
cility, such as an FPSO, with an average 
power demand of 80 MW being met by 
four 30-MW gas turbines. Determining 
how to supply the 80 MW for the vari -
ous processes on the vessel in the most 
efficient manner requires consideration 
of multiple variables that are constantly 
changing, including current demand, 
ambient conditions, performance degra -
dation, etc. By collecting real-time data 
from the turbines and analyzing it against 
facility power requirements, operators 
can run units (collectively) at an optimal 
set point, thereby reducing carbon emis -
sions. In this particular example, just a 
1% increase in power plant efficiency would equate to an emissions reduction 
of approximately 6,500 metric tons of 
CO 2 annually.
WO: A final question—In your 
opinion, is the offshore industry 
doing enough to reduce its carbon 
footprint, and how do you foresee 
it faring as the energy transition 
plays out?
BEB:  At Siemens Energy, we have seen, 
first-hand, the tremendous progress off -
shore operators are making to reduce 
emissions through measures such as 
electrification, waste heat recovery, digi -
talization, the use of energy storage, etc. 
These efforts will need to continue in 
the coming years to get anywhere close 
to net zero. Emerging technologies for 
hydrogen utilization and carbon capture 
will also play an important role.
Remember that the high competence 
built up in the offshore industry is an en -
abler for the future energy transition. I 
am confident that the offshore industry 
will rise to the decarbonization challenge 
and believe the future is bright. BJØRN EINAR BRATH has a master’s degree 
in mechanical engineering from Heriot-Watt 
University in Edinburgh, Scotland, UK. He 
has more than 20 years of experience in the 
oil and gas market and currently holds the 
position as managing director of Siemens 
Energy in Oslo, Norway.Fig. 4.  Each BlueVault battery module 
contains roughly 60 monitoring points, 
which means that in a 1-MWh battery 
system, there are as many as 15,000 data 
points collected and transferred to a data 
repository.
Article copyright © 2021 by Gulf Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Not to be distributed in electronic or printed form, or posted on a website,  without express written permission of copyright holder .