siemens-energy.com/oil-gasDid you know that  
Siemens Energy  
has a solution for  
your rod pumps?
 
Gain better rod pump efficiency  
with SIWELL
Let your well tell you what it needs.   
The SIWELL solution from Siemens Energy is a scalable,  
end-to-end solution for the automation, optimization  
and monitoring of rod pumps. It is designed to optimize 
production and reduce costs using edge computing/analytics, 
advanced automation, and artificial intelligence. 
SIWELL utilizes existing sensors in combination with Siemens 
Energy smart automation components for real-time data 
processing  at the well site. By moving the computing  
and analytics to the well/pump, your well can now send early 
notifications when an issue is developing, allowing you  
to intervene sooner and take corrective action. 
Given oil price swings and lower  
for longer price scenarios,  
many companies are taking  
a closer look at operation costs.Some have drawn on available lines of credit to survive today’s 
price reality.  Others have simply turned to survival mode, 
shutting in production, convinced that the best hope is to 
wait for higher oil prices. Forward-thinking companies aspire 
to do more than simply survive. These forward-thinkers are 
restructuring their operating costs by focusing on core  
business improvement.
Forward-thinking companies aspire to do more than simply 
survive. These forward-thinkers are restructuring their 
operating costs by focusing on core business improvement. 
 
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 1 SIWELL | Rod Pumps
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2 © 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2SIWELL | Rod Pumps
 In the last decade, the installation  
 of increasing less expensive sensors and 
communications has provided a rich source of 
pump and well information to operators. 
These sensors communicate pressure, temperature, 
motor/pump data, flow rate, valve position and many 
other critical properties. Now, by applying analytics to this 
data at the well pad, the well senses a problem, can ask 
for help, describe the exact problem, and make changes 
autonomously if enabled.
Wells and pumps have a lot to say. With SIWELL, operators 
always have current information and can act quickly and 
effectively on the insights provided by the well.  
The real-time insight provided by these connected wells 
provides new strategic opportunities and efficiencies  
to improve production and lower cost.
Unfortunately, yesterday’s production is history and nothing 
can be done to change that. To improve production results,  
we need to focus on improving today’s performance.  
Does your team know what is needed to produce the maximum 
number of barrels daily? Do they understand the emerging 
issues creating barriers to meeting today and tomorrow’s 
production targets? 
 
Figure 1 and 2 Intuitive rod pump
SIWELL | Rod PumpsWhat is the first question managers  
ask everymorning? 
For most companies in this field,  
the answer is, “What was yesterday’s 
production?” Production is the  
lifeblood of upstream companies.
Figure 1 and 2 Intuitive rod pumpThe key lesson here is to focus on the point of value creation. 
For upstream companies, it is the well. Instead of reviewing 
yesterday’s production report, combine the sensor data you 
have with new digital technologies to proactively identify 
emerging problems and take immediate action  
to maintain orincrease production.
 
In today’s market, freeing staff to work on higher value-add 
work versus driving from well to well is imperative. With 
SIWELL, let the well tell you when it has an emerging problem 
that requires your attention. By fully understanding what is 
happening at the well in advance, staff are prepared with what 
is needed when going to the well, saving time and enabling 
them to fix problems faster.
Features Benefits
Full functionality implemented on a single, industrialized 
edge device; expandable with additional over-the-air updates Increased situational awareness for ALL your wells; 
enables focused intervention and optimization to drive 
efficiency 
Sensorless dynacard and related KPIs; full functionality 
without additional instrumentation (inclinometer, load cell, 
VFD) even for low producing wellsIncreased eff ectiveness of your staff because of detailed 
insights from the pump and well
Fully automated dynacard classification; analytic modules 
and industry-standard alarm management provide greater 
insights into operationReducti on in maintenance efforts and intervention costs; 
early alarming and better-informed decisions reduce reaction 
time and increase support with root cause analysis data
Pumping optimization per stroke calculationIncreas ed production and pumping efficiency;  
reduced energy costs 
Simple installation – fully integrated, plug-and-play 
commissioning within hoursCost-eff ective solution, easy to deploy
Brownfield ready; connects to existing instrumentation and 
equipment at the well site, as well as to existing SCADA  
or well monitoring softwareIncreas e the value of existing equipment and software
Full functionality implemented on single industrialized edge 
device; expandable with additional over-the-air updatesNo addi tional cost for expensive central data center 
installation; minimal network bandwidth necessary  
to connect to central systems. 
Flexible business models tailored to fit your needs Solut ion-as-a-Service – full OpEx subscription-based  
pricing model
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 3SIWELL | Rod Pumps
There is no silver bullet in the oil and gas business. However, 
there are new digital tools that become staff multipliers  
to drive efficiency and lower costs. These tools – combined with 
new subscription-based business models – provide OpEx-based 
solutions that can be implemented without large capital outlay 
and with minimal risk.
Learn more about SIWELL
If you are content with your current level of well performance, 
even as technology advancements make better efficiencies 
possible, maybe you don’t need us. But if you believe there is 
an opportunity for improvevment and that better is possible, 
you should be talking to us. 
To discuss opportunities for improvement email us at  
onshore-solutions.energy@siemens-energy.com  A SIWELL-equipped well  is an autonomous, smart node in a 
field  network that links to other wells, processing equipment, 
the field office, the integrated operations center, and to 
enterprise systems.  
By moving to exception-based surveillance, you can reduce 
staff time in the field and see an increase in overall well/pump 
availability. This can also translate into fewer workovers.  
Also, by leveraging the results of real-time analytics, you 
increase situational awareness and make better-informed  
decisions that ultimately lower costs and maintain or  
increase production. 
Benefits
• Increased situational awareness for ALL your  
 wells; enables focused intervention and optimi  
 zation to drive efficiency 
• Increased effectiveness of your staff because  
 of detailed insights from the  
 pump and well
• Reduction in maintenance efforts and    
 intervention costs;  early alarming and  better-  
 informed decisions reduce reaction time and  
 increase support with root cause analysis data
• Increased production and pumping  
 efficiency;  reduced energy costs  
• Cost-effective solution, easy to deploy
• Increase the value of existing equipment  
 and software
• No additional cost for expensive central    
data center installation; minimal network  
 bandwidth necessary to connect to  
 central systems.  
• Solution-as-a-Service  – full OpEx subscription-  
 based pricing model
 
SIWELL | Rod Pumps
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 4SIWELL | Rod Pumps
Published by
Siemens Energy – Oil & Gas  
15375 Memorial Drive,  
Houston, TX 77079
For more information, please visit our website:  
www.siemens-energy.com/oil-gas  
Email: onshore-solutions.energy@siemens-energy.com
All rights reserved.  
Trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of Siemens AG, 
its affiliates, or their respective owners. Subject to change without prior 
notice. The information in this document contains general descriptions  
of the technical options available, which may not apply in all cases. The 
required technical options should therefore be specified in the contract.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.