 
 
 Unrestricted  1  
 
 
Vision4SRP featuring  affordable , remote monitoring of  tail-end SRPs  
How IoT , digitali zation  and better wireless service -
coverage  are transforming  the way tail -end SRPs  
are monitored  
 
Authors  
 Michael Schnurbusch, Siemens  Energy  
 Mirko Wutkewicz , Siemens  Energy  
 Bob Skiebe, Siemens  Energy   
 
 
 Unrestricted  2  
urveillance  of sucker -rod pumps (SRPs) , scattered in remote areas  with poor wireless service 
coverage , has always posed a challenge to the O&G industry. Implementing a full -fledged SCADA -
system has not been an option in many cases for economic reasons. Hence, SRPs are monitored in 
a rather traditional  way, with lease pumpers visiting each  well pad , typically once a day . The sites remain 
literally untouched by technological advancements .  
This is about to change. Digitalization has finally arrived at these remote SRP wells. A smart combination 
of modern IoT -technologies  will provide remote monitoring of SRPs in an affordable way.  
 
Monitoring challenges  
An oil  & gas operator of a scattered, remote SRP field  typically faces 4 key challenges.  
 How do I avoid HSE issues such as spillages at well site s? 
 How can I improve productivity?  
 How can I increase the pump’s uptime and lifetime?  
 How can I maximize the well’s economic viability?  
Today these challenges are addressed by a lease pumper visiting each and every pump , sometimes  on a 
daily basis  and for just a few minutes . Subject to location  and spread of pumps, th is leads to  a significant 
amount of windshield time  instead of actual work at the pump , resulting in reduced  productivity. In 
addition, the lease pumper typically possesses only a single health check per day  per pump – thus any 
issue that develop s at any other time of the day  will go unnoticed  until the next visit .  
For example , consider a common scenario: a pump stopped working shortly after a site visit. This will 
not be noticed for at least 24 hours , causing loss of production . Even worse would be a spillage at the 
stuffing box shortly after a site visit , an incident that might result in  substantial clean -up cost s and 
reputational damage  for the operator . 
How could these challenges be addressed without i mplementing an automation system with high 
upfront  and ongoing costs? 
 
Customer benefits of Vision4SRP  
Operators of SRP fields in remote, scattered areas are wary of capital investments  given the low number 
of barrels these fields produce per day . An attractive  technology solution needs to improve upon the 
way operators current ly monitor  their well pad s while not weighing h eavily  on their budget.  Put a nother 
way, the ideal solution must deliver essential monitoring  without any unnecessary  bells and whistles.  
Vision4SRP incorporates  a powerful combination of modern IoT -technologies, computer vision , and 3G 
or 4G -connectivity that will provide operators with an affordable way to remote ly monito r their  SRPs . 
Prior to talking in detail about how the technologies  are applied, let’s first look at the key deliverable  of 
Vision4SRP  and its associated customer benefits .  
 S 
 
 
 Unrestricted  3 Key deliverable : 
 Better coverage during the day – 4 health checks  instead of 1  
 
Operator benefits:  
 Reduced HSE risk via early detection and mitigation  
 Increased productivity as the lease pumper can manage more pumps  
 Improved pump uptime and lifetime as issues are addressed in a more timely fashion  
 
Technology behind Vision4SRP  
Bearing in mind the investment limitations for O&G operators of these SRP fields, the solution should be 
affordable, easy -to-install , and intuit ive in day -to-day usage . 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the solution needs to cope with the challenges o f remote areas with limited  data 
connect ivity, no external power supply  and demanding temperature profiles.  
Vision4SRP addresses these challenges with a smart combination of a solar-powered , battery backed -up 
camera ; a powerful edge processing device with minimized power consumption ; minimized data traffic  
due to preprocessing at the edge ; and an intuitive cloud interface for the user.  
 
Figure 1. Camera with solar panel, battery, modem and edge processing  
 
 
 Unrestricted  4 Key features of Vision4SRP  
The lease pumper will be the main user of Vision4SRP . As a result, k ey features have been designed to 
provide the lease pumper with the essential operating information of a n SRP, while making usage  of the 
Vision4SRP  intuitive and actionable . Key features include : 
 Leak detection algorithm : Stuffing box l eaks are detected with high confidence  by analyzing the 
degree of oil contamination on the polished rod applying  state -of-the -art computer vision 
technology.  Utilizing edge processing  minimizes bandwidth and data transmission costs while  
improving alarm integrity.  
 Health monitor : By m onitoring the pump’s frequency and “reading ” existing  analogue gauges, the 
health and integrity of the well site can be confirmed . 
 Photo request : To double -check an alarm raised by the leak detection algorithm  or health monitor , 
the pumper  can request a most recent photo for his own visual inspection . 
 Intuitive p ump fleet overview : Regardless of the web  browser or smartphone  in use, pumpers  will 
always have an overview of the pump fleet  at their  fingertip s. 
 
                                                                 
 
Leveraging the power of modern cloud systems like Microsoft Azure and web -browser capable end -
devices, all information is available at any time to the user. Access rights ensure that data are only 
access ible by the operator’s authorized personnel . 
For example , if Vision4SRP detects  a deviation in nodding frequency  of a pump , a warning sign  appears 
for that specific pump on the overview screen.  
 
Figure 2. Pump fleet overview  
 
 
 Unrestricted  5                                   
The lease pumper can now check the actual problem on the Check page and retrieve the most recent 
photo to verify the leakage prior to driving to th e specific well site.  
In any E&P application, personnel safety remains a top priority. Vision4SRP will help detect HSE issues 
early, thereby reducing the risk of contamination and safety issues for personnel visiting the well site.  
Lease pumper s with Vision4SRP access via their  smartphone s would typically check the pump overview 
before getting into the ir cars every morning. They can then plan the most efficient  inspection route by 
prioritizing th ose pumps with the most urgent issues.  
 
 
Vision4SRP  as a first step on a journey  
As the industry moves towards a greener and more sustainable future, regulations will continue to 
evolve —as will the need to keep aging infrastructure up to date . By partnering with Siemens Energy and 
leveraging its focus on use -case solutions, customers can be assured that their technologies  will 
continue to serve their needs for years to come. Built on the foundation of modern, open IoT -
technologies that will keep pace with evolv ing field demands,  Vision4SRP is a first step on th e journey  to 
a sustainable, cost -effective future for the oil field .  
 
Want to learn how Vision4SRP can help optimize your sucker rod pump monitoring with 
minimal risk and expense? Contact Siemens Energy today  for a demonstration  onshore -
solutions@siemens -energy.com .  
 
Figure 3. Check Page  