Interval maximization 
up to 30% resulting in 
increased generation 
and optimized lifecycle 
costsUp to 20% maintenance 
cost reductions  by 
tailoring your 
maintenance scope 
to the actual operation 
of the unitUp to +50% longer 
between forced 
outages due to 
equipment monitoring 
and preventative 
maintenanceIncreased availability 
up to 10% compared 
to non-program 
customerssiemens-energy.comCompressor service 
programs
Customized maintenance to suit  
your requirements
Securing our customers’ investment with first class OEM 
service for rotating equipment is key to our customer support 
philosophy. Our Service Programs take this one step further, 
by offering a fully tailored service program based on your 
operating needs and long term maintenance requirements 
for the entire Siemens Energy portfolio. Whether you want 
to maximize production, increase availability, or optimize life 
cycle cost for all your equipment; we have a solution to suit 
your needs.
Benefits 
• Tailored maintenance activities for maximized operation 
•  Minimize unplanned downtime and increase reliability and 
availability with proactive support 
• Flexible contract, levels of support, and payment structures 
•  Proactive risk management through remote monitoring and 
24/7 technical support
• Optimization of maintenance costs
• Reduce other operational costs e.g. logistics, purchasingFeatures and Options 
•  Field Service and Overhauls  -  With overhauls planned 
well in advance, personnel scheduling will be optimized, 
saving customers money. 
•   Spare Parts - By optimizing the planning of required parts 
for your outage, we can better leverage our spare parts 
manufacturing and supply chain to optimize product lead-
time, inventory and costs. 
•  Remote Diagnostic Services (RDS)  - Our advanced 
diagnostic tools can help to proactively notify you of 
deviations, reducing the risk of unplanned downtime. 
•  24/7 Technical Support  - Members of our OEM 
experienced service team are available for remote 
support at any hour of the day to help troubleshoot your 
equipment. 
•  Dedicated Project Manager -  Single point of contact for 
all your technical and commercial needs.
Remote Diagnostic Service (RDS) 
Based on our expert OEM knowledge combined with modern 
digitalization tools, we can monitor the complete range of 
your rotating equipment to detect and diagnose a potential 
problem before it impacts your operations. Our Remote 
Diagnostic Centers can assist you with the skilled professional 
management of your plant’s assets to help you meet your 
investment goals. Through the daily monitoring of various operating statistics, 
trending and data analysis, tailored to your specific machine, 
we aim to minimize the risk of forced outages, by predicting 
potential unplanned shutdown events and allow planning 
into a scheduled outage supported by OEM’s personnel 
and materials to ensure asset down time is managed in the 
most effective and efficient manner. You can also get an 
easy overview of connected units with the myHealth app, to 
access performance indicators for availability, reliability, and 
historical comparison of operational data. Technical
Configuration
Operation proﬁle
Requirements
Customer needsTailored maintenance
Speciﬁc plan based on 
equipment operating 
conditions and plant 
outage scheduleService packages
Supportive
Preventive
Corrective
Operations and 
Maintenance (O&M)Typical options
Field service supervision
Spare / replacement parts
Remote Diagnostic Services
Guarantees
Resident Engineer
Flexible O&M options
Flexible payment methodsCustomer
firstMaintenance
PlanSupport
LevelModules

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transformation of Industry  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USASubject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only 
contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may not 
always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification 
in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon  
in the concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or 
product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies 
whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of  
the owner.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG ©Service Capabilities  
With over 60 Service & Competence Centers worldwide, 
and over 1,400 Global Field Service employees, we have the 
global footprint to provide customer access to our unmatched 
service capabilities. Coupled with the Remote Diagnostic 
Center and the 24/7 Helpdesk, we are available to assist you 
with virtually any kind of technical issue.
Increased uptime
Cost efficient
Peace of mindWhy choose Siemens Energy? 
With 35+ years of experience with Service Programs spanning 
all markets and industries, thousands of units across 
over 100 countries have been covered under a Siemens 
Energy Service Program. Coverage has been included 
for gas turbines, industrial steam turbines, centrifugal & 
reciprocating compressors, generators, controls, electric 
motors, & auxiliaries. Our unique insight and experience 
enable solutions for full-range support of today’s dynamic 
market. Whether helping to plan for maintenance activities, 
managing field service resources & parts, outage flexibility, 
or optimizing your operating expenses is a key driver, we will 
customize a flexible Service Program to fit your every need.