Operation & 
Maintenance
Siemens Energy India -  
Compression Services 
Operation & Maintenance (O&M) portfolio 
At Siemens Energy India, we are proud to be recognized as 
one of the world’s leading suppliers of custom-engineered 
rotating equipment. Our dedicated contributions to the oil, 
gas, petrochemical, and process industries have established 
us as a key player. Further boosting our reputation is our 
extensive portfolio of compression services and installed 
references.
We have delivered over 3000 reciprocating compression 
trains from our Naroda facility and operate and maintain  
a fleet of high-speed reciprocating compressor packages  
at specific sites under O&M service contracts.
Our holistic Operation & Maintenance  
(O&M) services
Our comprehensive O&M solutions cover total plant care  
and ownership. Our services extend from everyday 
maintenance to round-the-clock safe operations, ensuring 
equipment availability and reliability. As an original 
equipment manufacturer (OEM), we conduct routine 
maintenance, troubleshoot, and offer technical assistance  
for improvements. In addition, we offer extended support 
from our factory and ensure compliance with applicable  
audit authorities. 
Our all-inclusive Operation & Maintenance 
(O&M) package
Our O&M package provides an all-in-one solution for your 
compression equipment needs. With round-the-clock on-site 
availability, our experts handle both predictive and preventive 
maintenance, ensuring your equipment performs at its 
best for as long as possible. The goal? To offer you a more 
predictable maintenance cost structure you can rely on, 
minimize potential maintenance-related issues, and ensure  
smooth, efficient plant operation.Our commitment
We are passionate about offering outstanding service and 
bringing great value to our customers. 
Our services aim to boost your plant’s efficiency, minimize 
downtime, and assist with risk management. We aim to 
optimize performance and contribute to the profitability of 
your plant assets. Our O&M portfolio ranges from standalone 
services to comprehensive long-term programs, with contract 
customizations available to meet your objectives.
Benefits
•  Established processes for safety and reliability 
improvement 
•  Environment, health and safety (EHS) integrated with 
operational excellence 
• Over 100 years of leadership in compression technologies 
•  Single point responsibility for complete site 
•  Knowledge of auxiliary equipment and technical support 
from Naroda Operations/ESC Pune 
• Customer-first attitude with committed real-time support 
• Customer rewards for meeting KPIs 
•  Bringing the latest and current technologies in 
compression equipment 
•  In-house support for life extension programs of 
installations 
•  Predictive maintenance practice to reduce the cost of 
ownership 
• Data management and result analysis to minimize failures
BDC-  
18H3
HHE-  
VL
HHE-  
VG
HHE-  
VBHHE-  
FB HSEPHE 11-ESH 7-ESHBDC-  
12HHOSS
HOS
MOS
45,000 HP  
33,557 kW
450 RPM22,000 HP  
16,778 kW
450 RPM13,125 HP  
9,790 kW
450 RPM9,450 HP  
7,047 kW
1,500 RPM8,225 HP  
6,133 kW
600 RPM8,200 HP  
5,371 kW
1,500 RPM4,440 HP  
3,311 kW
1,500 RPM2,250 HP  
1,678 kW
600 RPM786 HP  
586 kW
600 RPM240 HP  
179 kW
729 RPMISO 13707  
API 618  
Process  
Reciprocating  
Compressors
ISO 13631  
API 11-p  
High Speed  
Reciprocating  
Compressors
180 HP  
134 kW
450 RPM70 HP  
52 kW
600 RPM5,000 HP  
3,729 kW
600 RPMOperation & Maintenance | Siemens Energy India - Compression Services 
About us
At Siemens Energy India, we‘re proud to be a leading global 
supplier of custom-engineered rotating equipment designed 
for extended lifespan and critical applications. Our suite of 
products includes centrifugal and reciprocating compressors, 
gas and steam turbines, gas expanders, and related control 
systems. These products have a vital function across diverse 
sectors. They aid in the production, transportation and 
processing of oil and gas. Additionally, these products are 
integral to the petrochemical industry and have extensive 
applications in various industrial sectors. 
Driven by people:  Our most significant asset is our well-
trained and experienced workforce. These professionals, 
committed to creating safe and healthy work environments, 
are at the core of our success. They leverage their experience 
and foresight to identify the best solutions for our customers’ 
rotating equipment needs.
Shared goals:  Our customers around the globe generally 
seek high equipment efficiency, reliability, availability, and a 
low ownership cost over the equipment‘s life cycle. Quality 
starts with outstanding equipment design, robust processes, 
and tools, all developed by our skilled and experienced 
workforce. We extend this to quality manufacturing, 
meticulous product documentation, and customer training 
programs. Our culture of continuous improvement in 
processes, products, and safety within all of our operations 
supports this. Furthermore, we ensure ongoing spare parts 
availability and field service support for the entire duration of 
the equipment‘s operation.have since installed over
units of rotating equipment in 
more than 140 countries.94,000
Impressive footprint:
With a history dating back to 1840 we possess an 
extensive installed base. We manufactured our first 
compressor over a century ago and have since installed 
over 94,000 units of rotating equipment in more than 
140 countries.Operation & Maintenance | Siemens Energy India - Compression Services 
Gallery
Preserving and protecting our planet
We are committed to protecting the environment and 
reducing our carbon footprint by planting trees at our  
O&M sites.
Trash sorting: waste management
A system that is kind to the environment, encouraging correct 
sorting and disposal of waste to support recycling efforts, 
thereby aiding in creating a cleaner, greener environment. 
Operation & Maintenance | Siemens Energy India - Compression Services 
Wellness administration
Prioritizing the health and wellness of our team and partners: comprehensive health camp at the O&M project location.
Protection
Empowering through on-site training: skill enhancement at 
O&M sites and Naroda plant
2023 awards: prioritizing safety in operational 
excellenceSafety-centric operational mastery
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Transformation of Industry 
Siemens promenade 9 
91058 Erlangen
Germany 
 
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail, Orlando, FL 32826, USA 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features, which 
may not always specifically reflect those described or which may undergo 
modification in the course of further development of the products. The 
requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly 
agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be 
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes 
could violate the rights of the owner.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.