Our integrally geared compressor service portfolio for CO₂ 
applications provides the most efficient compression solution 
for your process. Whether your application involves the 
capture and transportation of CO2, the injection for storage or 
Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR), the utilization of CO2 e.g. Urea 
or Methanol production, we will work with you to achieve 
your economic and sustainability goals while ensuring 
optimal maintenance support for long-lasting reliability and 
efficiency. 
Our engineers continuously improve the compressor design 
to reduce the life cycle cost of the equipment. Our integrally 
geared compressors have been enhanced with several 
features to improve maintainability, including:•  Increased mean time between inspections - Non contacting 
seal design and robust API design criteria allow for 
increased inspection intervals 
•  Easy maintenance access – Hirth toothing for easy seal 
access, second top mounted pinions for certain frame 
families 
•  Simplified bearing inspections – Gear casing modifications 
to allow inspection without disassembly of casing or volute
•  Robust design – Improved carbon ring seal design for  
high-pressure stages 
•  Condition-Based maintenance – Individual stage 
temperature and performance monitoring 
•  Minimized shutdown times and risks – Focus on individual 
stages based on diagnostics during unplanned maintenance 
scenarios
The separation of individual impellers in integrally geared 
compressor design brings condition-based maintenance to 
the next level. siemens-energy.comMaking your CO2 story  
a success – Maintaining 
Integrally Geared 
Compressors in CO2  
applications
We have been designing and  
manufacturing integrally geared  
compressors since 1949  Today,  
more than 2,200 units have been 
installed globally in a wide range of 
industries and process applications.
© 2023 Siemens Energy
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transformation of Industry  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of furhter  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Compressor Maintenance
With decades of experience in designing and manufacturing 
CO2 compressors, you can be assured that we have the know -
ledge and expertise to manage your compression maintenan -
ce requirements. 
•   Extensive experience: As a global OEM, our engineers 
have years of field experience, ensuring that you receive 
the optimum maintenance solution for your compression 
equipment 
•  Thousands of compressors in operation: We have success -
fully maintained and serviced thousands of compressors 
across various industries, making us the supplier of choice 
for reliability and efficiency 
•  Worldwide service network: With a global network of skilled 
technicians and engineers, we are able to provide prompt 
and efficient support no matter where your operations are 
located 
•  Experienced troubleshooters: When faced with complex is -
sues, our team knows how to quickly identify the root cause 
and implement the right solution to get your operations 
back on trackRemote Diagnostic Services
Availability and reliability are among the most crucial para -
meters for the economical operation of your equipment. The 
potential to achieve high reliability doesn’t just depend on the 
performance of the equipment itself; it also relies heavily on 
efficiently managing operational risks. Our Remote Diagnostic 
Services (RDS) aim to maximize the availability, reliability, and 
performance of your rotating equipment and machine trains. 
Our RDS provides:
•  Improved emergency support responsiveness with advanced 
remote troubleshooting and access to equipment data
•  Proactive equipment maintenance recommendations by 
analyzing historical condition changes to reduce potential 
operational disturbances and outages
•  Operational continuity with proactive advanced remote 
troubleshooting
•  Improved uptime and productivity with fast remote support, 
troubleshooting, and OEM expert guidance for optimized 
operation and routine maintenance
Service Programs
Our Service Programs are tailor-designed based on your 
operating needs and your compressor long term maintenance 
requirements.
Service Program Advantages
•  Field Service and Overhauls   
With overhauls planned well in advance, personnel  
scheduling will be optimized, saving money. 
•  Reduced Unplanned Downtime  
With greater visibility to the health of your equipment (e.g., 
RDS, periodic site inspections, and technical support with 
our engineers) along with a planned maintenance strategy, 
there can be a substantial increase in your equipment’s 
availability. 
•  Reduced Operational Cost  
Reduced efforts in logistics, warehousing, inventory, pur -
chasing, tooling, preservation, and other operating costs 
for your site. 
•  Spare Parts  
Knowing the maintenance plan of parts for your outages, 
we can better leverage our supply chain to optimize product 
lead-time, inventory, & costs. 
•  Remote Diagnostic Services (RDS)  
Advanced diagnostic tools can help to proactively notify 
you of operational issues, reducing the risk of unplanned 
downtime. 
•  24/7 Technical Support  
Members of our OEM experienced service team are  
available for remote support at any hour of the day to  
help troubleshoot your equipment. 
•  Dedicated Project Manager  
Single point of contact for all your technical and  
commercial needs.
