 
Additive Manufacturing 
Onsite Repair
Contact us:
 Brings the world’s most advanced manufacturing 
technology for repair to your plant
Operational disruptions and downtimes are associated with high 
costs and difficulties for plant operators. Fast, reliable, and straight-
forward service is crucial for getting plants back into operation as 
quickly as possible. But spare parts availability might be critical and 
transporting a valuable component to a workshop can be expensive 
and a time-consuming logistical operation.Our Additive Manufacturing Onsite Repair solution is designed to 
restore your critical components – or even improve their 
performance – onsite using the advanced additive manufacturing 
technology.
The minds behind the solution
To best meet our customers‘ service requirements, we bring 
together our top specialists from different disciplines. With Additive 
Manufacturing Onsite Repair, we’ve created a new service offering 
that is designed to provide an optimal solution for fast and efficient component refurbishment. We’ve achieved this by combining 
our Engineering, Non-destructive Testing, On-Site Machining and 
Welding specialization. 
Meet the minds behind the solution:

The perfect complement
A broad service portfolio for all requirements
The service needs of our customers are just as varied as the plants 
themselves. Additive Manufacturing Onsite Repair complements our 
existing service portfolios, with which we offer closely interlinked 
service solutions for all requirements.Our goal is to provide the best possible, most efficient and 
uncomplicated service to our customers worldwide in order 
to constantly reduce limitations such as downtime or other 
inconveniences to an absolute minimum.
The information given in this document contains only general descriptions of potential features, 
capabilities and benefits which may or may not apply in each case, which are not warranted or 
guaranteed, or binding, and are subject to change.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © 2023 Siemens EnergyPublished by  
Siemens Energy  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Freyeslebenstr. 1  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:E-mail: