May/June 2021  • Turbomachinery International
TURBINES www.turbomachinerymag.comSteam turbines have been a staple of indus -
trial facilities for more than a century. They 
enable production processes across a range 
of industries, including oil and gas, real 
estate heating, ventilation, and air conditioning 
(HVAC) chillers, food and beverage, chemical 
processing, and power generation. 
Despite their continued relevance, many facilities 
operate steam turbines that are in need of modern -
ization. Some units were installed 50 or 60 years ago 
with heat rates and reliability levels well below what 
current models can achieve. This may be attribut -
able to a CAPEX-constrained environment, as well 
as concerns about downtime associated with 
installing new units. As a result, some opt for low cost 
partial modernizations or short-term repairs. 
However, this is not always optimal for improving 
the turbine’s long-term performance and reliability. 
One alternative is a footprint solution. The 
turbine and all components are modernized, but 
the dimensions and the positioning of the flanges 
are not changed. This is essentially a replacement 
machine that requires only slight changes to the 
existing base frame or foundation. The current oil 
system, the driven machine, and/or the gear can be 
adapted according to new operating parameters. In 
some cases, no changes are required. The replace -
ment machine’s outer casing can be tailored for the 
process, including using a more modern and robust 
material of construction. Additionally, all stationary 
components are replaced to ensure optimal interac -
tion with the turbine rotor, including the blading. 
This option is often advisable when modifications 
must be made for new operating data or when the 
service life of highly stressed components has been 
exhausted. Investment is typically about 70% of the 
cost of a new unit. Little or no change is required to 
connections and associated turbine systems, thereby 
reducing downtime. 
A phosphoric acid production plant operator for 
example, used this approach to increase plant 
capacity by 25%. The objective was to modernize 
the existing steam turbine (installed in 2006) at a new 
steam condition set to accommodate a  revamped 
blower. The operator also sought to improve turbine 
reliability traced to first-stage blading issues. STEAM TURBINES 
Options for modernizing aging turbines
BY JASON MATTISON AND CHRIS MAHON 
Murray steam turbine 
footprint solution with 
a modified steam path. 
Similar upgrade options 
are available for other 
turbine nameplates (e.g., 
Dresser-Rand, Worthing -
ton, Westinghouse, 
Delaval, Turbodyne, 
Terry, Ingersoll-Rand, 
Coppus). Courtesy of 
Siemens Energy.  
Dresser-Rand/Murray  
Axial Flow Impulse Type Steam Turbine Performance Curve
Inlet Pressure (barg):  
Intel Temperature (deg C)  
Exhaust Pressure (barg):60.0  
482.0  
5.500RPM:  
Frame:  
Date:8191.  
RG4 
02/20/2019
80000
70000
60000
50000
40000
30000
20000
10000
00 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000 10000
Power Output (KW)Steam Flow (KG/HR)7126 RPM 8191 RPMA Murray footprint replacement turbine was 
installed with a revamped steam path and new 
first stage blading. The attachment between the 
blades and the wheel was changed from a t-root 
style to a fir-tree style with greater strength and 
load-carrying capability. The replacement unit 
was built to match all existing interfaces, including 
the foundation and original steam connections 
(inlet, exhaust, supports, and coupling). The 
project took four weeks from shutdown to start-up. 
OTHER OPTIONS
In addition to footprint turbines, other modern -
ization options include:
Blading and seal retrofits: With modern 
thermodynamic and mechanical design software, it 
is possible in some instances to pass more flow 
through a turbine and increase its rated output by 
changing the design of the first stage blades and the 
nozzle plate. 3D modeling software enables OEMs 
to implement new designs with greater predict -
ability and less risk of issues like  vibration. 

TURBINESDesign changes for high exhaust 
wetness:  Waste incineration and biomass 
plants often operate with relatively low live-
steam parameters to protect the boiler against 
high-temperature corrosion. The result is high 
exhaust wetness conditions for the turbine, 
which increases erosion of the low-pressure (LP) 
portion, including the end-stage blades. This 
problem can be addressed by implementing 
more resistant materials and changing end-stage 
blade geometry to increase erosion protection. 
Hollow guide vanes to suction away excess mois -
ture from the exhaust steam are also available 
for certain types of blades.
Redesign of low-pressure (LP parts): 
For operators of condensing steam turbines, it 
may become uneconomical to produce elec -
tricity due to market changes. A reduction in 
power output or an increase in process steam are 
ways to restore profitability. Options range from 
cutting back/optimizing the quantity of 
low-pressure steam to complete conversion of a 
condensing turbine into a back-pressure turbine. 
In other cases, it may be necessary to modify 
turbine generator sets to be flexible enough to 
respond to changes in loads on the power grid. 
Retrofitting control systems:  Many 
steam turbines still use mechanical-hydraulic or 
older electronic controls. Wear and tear on components, and an uncertain supply of spare 
parts can impair smooth operation. It is possible 
to modernize turbine controls to ensure API 
conformity. In many cases, remote diagnostic 
services (RDS) can be implemented to enable 
capabilities such as early warning of failures, 
root cause analyses (RCA), and remote 
troubleshooting. 
For any steam turbine upgrade project, an 
analysis of the condition of the turbine and the 
entire system is required to determine the 
optimal approach. A look at the current and 
future requirements will reveal which systems, 
components, and parts can still be used and 
which will have to be adapted and replaced. 
After a preliminary evaluation, a feasibility anal -
ysis can be conducted, which allows the operator 
to evaluate the costs of retrofits or upgrades for 
the existing turbine(s) and system. 
Jason Mattison is Head of Siemens 
Energy Product Competency Center in 
Wellsville, NY.  
Chris Mahon is Head of Siemens 
Energy Product Competency Center in 
Burlington, IA. For more information 
visit siemens-energy.com
Reprinted with permission from Turbomachinery International. Turbomachinery International is a copyrighted publication of MultiMedia Healthcare, LLC. All rights reserved.
