CAREPOLE l Brochure
Unrestricted © 2020 Siemens Energy Page 1
CAREPOLE
The eco-friendly alternative for more reliable
and safer distribution grids
siemens-energy.com

Unrestricted
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 2The pole-mounted dry-type CAREPOLE offers many
benefits which make your power distribution grid safer
and more environmentally friendly. Optimally protected
by its cast-resin enclosure against harsh environmental
and climate conditions, this maintenance-free trans-
former, with an expected lifetime of 25+ years, ensures
reliable operation while reducing total costs of
ownership.
Reliable by design: long lifetime, few outages
CAREPOLE has a robust mechanical frame structure and is
cast with cycloaliphatic epoxy resin. This ensures high
weather and corrosion resistance . CAREPOLE is suitable
for outdoor applications and withstands environmental
hazards. The frame also serves as a lifting and fastening
mechanism for the transformer. A special manufacturing
process and advanced sealing compound ensure a perfect
core protection and low-noise operation .
The windings are cast with cycloaliphatic epoxy resin under
vacuum, separated from the core. The cast-resin insulation
is solid and resists the dielectric loads in the distribution
network. It prevents moisture from penetrating the
windings and thereby reduces transformer aging .
CAREPOLE can also withstand higher temperatures than
liquid ­filled transformers due to the thermal class of the
solid insulation. As a result, CAREPOLE units can be
overloaded for longer periods of peak demand.
The winding insulation surface is in direct contact with the
ambient air and has an efficient natural heat exchange,
which ensures low aging: the lifetime of CAREPOLE is 25+
years . The innovative technical design makes CAREPOLE
especially reliable and robust .Easy handling: maintenance-free, easy to
install
CAREPOLE units are maintenance-free.  Servicing is limited
to checking the vegetation conditions and wildlife
management. This all helps to reduce the total cost of
ownership.
Installation and grid connection  could not be easier.
Liquid-filled overhead distribution transformers can be
directly replaced by CAREPOLE due to identical brackets.
CAREPOLE has identical mechanisms for fixing to the pole,
and has been specifically developed for urban, rural or
coastal outdoor installation. CAREPOLE can be mounted at
any angle and, after installation, immediate energizing is
possible.CAREPOLE®
Be ready for the future
CAREPOLETM
Be ready for the future

CAREPOLE l Brochure
Unrestricted
1) Available soon © 2022 Siemens Energy Page 3Safe and sustainable: no contamination, less 
resource consumption 
CAREPOLE makes your power distribution grids safer and 
more environmentally friendly because the units operate 
without flammable oil ­based insulating fluids , and 
therefore require no tank. The cast resin, used as insulation 
and for the body of the transformer, has excellent electrical 
and mechanical properties, and is self ­extinguishing . 
The absence of insulating fluids means that CAREPOLE does 
not pose any risk to water sources or nature reserves caused 
by oil leaks, tank explosions or fires in the event of a fault. 
Moreover, thanks to the high efficiency  of CAREPOLE, CO 2 
emissions are minimized and the transformer’s long lifetime 
reduces resource consumption.
Digitally connected: minimized outage times, 
optimized performance
CAREPOLE is part of the digital Siemens Energy Sensformer  
portfolio: your unit can be ordered as Sensformer.
Operational data is transmitted via a smart and robust IoT 
gateway, using end-to-end encryption, to a storage and 
visualization platform. Loading information allows you to 
make better decisions and optimize the management of 
the grid , resulting in greater flexibility and more economic 
operation. The temperature status can always be checked, 
and a life consumption view provides information on the 
residual lifetime of the transformer.
Information is available any time and anywhere . Thanks 
to these digital features, failures can be localized and 
rectified as quickly as possible, or often even avoided by 
identifying operational irregularities at an early stage. This 
level of transparency helps to further increase the reliability 
of your distribution grid.
Your benefits at a glance:
Increased reliabilty
• Long lifetime
• Fewer outages
• High overload capability
• Weatherproof and climate-proof design
• Digital monitoring to improve grid 
management
Enhanced safety and environmental friendliness
• Minimized resource consumption and CO 2 
emissions
• No water or soil contamination
• High level of fire safety – self-extinguishable
• No explosion risk
• High short-circuit withstand capability
Reduced total cost of ownership
• Long lifetime of 25+ years: no replacement 
costs
• Maintenance-free units: no maintenance costs
• Small in size: lower storage and installation 
costs
• Reduction of technical losses (due to 
amorphous core)
• Energy theft protection due to digital 
monitoring
Unrestricted
 © 2022 Siemens Energy Page 4
Technical details
Ratings
CAREPOLE is available in the single-phase power range 
from 10 kVA to 100 kVA . The transformer offers a maximum 
voltage capacity of 36 kV, and can be equipped with a tap 
changer with up to 5 positions, one or two high ­voltage 
bushings and other accessories typical for overhead 
distribution transformers (e.g. surge arresters).
Accessories
CAREPOLE is equipped with the following accessories:
• Surge arrester (on request)
• Lifting lugs
• Mounting bracket
• Transformer ground connector
• Low-voltage ground (on request)
• Sensors and smart IoT gateway (on request)Main standards
CAREPOLE transformers meet the product requirements of 
the following standards:
• IEEE C57.12.01. “Standard for General 
Requirements for Dry Type Distribution and Power 
Transformers”
• IEEE C57.12.20. “Standard for Overhead Type 
Distribution Transformers 500 kVA and Smaller: 
High Voltage, 34,500 V and Below; Low voltage, 
7,970 / 13,800 Y V and Below” (where applicable)
• Efficiency in accordance with the U.S. Department 
of Energy (DoE)
• Other requirements as dictated by your standards
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transmission
Freyeslebenstr. 1
91058 Erlangen
Germany
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2022
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may 
not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The 
requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be 
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes 
could violate the rights of the ownersFor the U.S. published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc
Transmission
8841 Wadford Drive
Raleigh, NC 27616
USA 
