Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin , April 19, 2022  
Siemens Energy presents innovative  pole -
mounted dry-type transformer for American 
market  
• Launch of single -phase dry-type transformer for pole application s 
• More reliable, durable and environmentally friendly alternative to oil-filled  transformer s 
 
With CAREPOLETM Siemens Energy launches an innovative  dry-type single -phase transformer for 
pole application s. Designed for  the technological requirements of the  American grid , the new cast-
resin distribution transformer  provides a reliable and sustainable alternative to oil -filled 
transformers.  
 
In American  markets , single phase transformers are often installed in the distribution grid, where – 
as the last step in  the power tran smission chain  – they step down  the voltage to household voltage 
level s. In light of increasing weather and climate extremes , such as heat waves that cause wildfires, 
the design of new outdoor -installed asset s needs to be  increasingly focused on their resi lience  to 
withstand environmental hazards . Due to its  cast-resin  design (without  oil), the self -extinguishing 
CAREPOLE has a high level of fire safety , cannot explode, and reduces environmental risks to a 
minimum . 
 
“For a successful energy transition, we also must rethink the  power grid  with  a focus on making it 
greener and strengthening its resilience . With our pole -mounted dry -type transformer, we are not 
just closing a gap in the American market but also presenting  a maintenance -free alternative to oil -
filled transformers that allows the more environmentally friendly, more reliable, and cost -efficient 
operation of the distribution grid ,” says Eduardo Terzi, Senior Vice President Non -Switching Products 
at Siemens Ene rgy.  
 
Considering  growing energy demand and the fluctuating feed -in of renewable energy , the new 
transformer was designed to handle high overload s to facilitate power flow balancing and satisfy 
real time demand at any time. Sealed  with cast -resin under  vacuum, the compact windings of the Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
transformer allow for its approximately 20 percent smaller volume  size compared to  a conventional 
liquid -filled pole -mounted transformer.  
 
The high mechanical strength of the  CAREPOLE’s  frame and cast resin protects it against corrosion  
and thereby extends the transformer’s service life. At the same time,  it prevents copper and 
aluminum thieves from destroying the transformers and putting themselves and others at risk. The 
new transforme r is designed as a plug -and-play asset with an identical fixing mechanism as fluid -
immersed transformers , and is therefore perfectly suited to replace existing installations.  
 
On customer request Siemens Energy’s digital transformer solution  Sensformer  can be added to 
CAREPOLE  to optimize operations  and further increase reliability . Equipped with  a smart IoT 
gateway, the transformer can then transmit end -to-end encrypted data to an analytics and 
visualization platform . Operators benefit from real -time insig hts on asset health and fleet status. 
Thanks to these digital features, failures can be localized and rectified as quickly as possible, or 
often even avoided by identifying operational irregularities at an early stage.  
 
CAREPOLE has a power rating between 10 and 100 kilovolt -amps  (kVA), a voltage capacity between 
15 and 36 kV and a typical lifetime  of over 25 years.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Christina Huemmer  
Phone:  +49 152 07158923  
E-mail:  christina.huemmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture is available at  
www.siemens -energy.com/press  
For further information on Siemens Energy transformers , please see  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -
transmission/portfolio/transformers.html  
Siemens Energy will present CAREPOLE at IEEE P ES T&D Conference & Exposition  in New Orleans , 
April 25 – 28, 2022, at Booth #8728 . For further information , please see 
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/news/fairs -events/ieee.html  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and service s, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydro gen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energie s. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €28.5  billion in fiscal year 2021 . 
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 