Tractronic®
Turning energy into speed with traction 
transformers from Siemens Energy
siemens -energy.com

Welcome to Siemens Energy
Energy transition is the greatest challenge our generation 
faces. How do we reduce emissions while also increase 
energy supply ? It is an uphill battle. And there is no silver 
bullet. But fin ding solutions has always been in our DNA. 
For more than 150 years our engineers have been 
spearheading the electrification of the world. Today we are 
a team of 98.0001 sharing the same passion, vision and 
values. Our diversity makes us strong and helps us to find 
answers together with our partners.
Located in 90 countries, Siemens Energy operates across 
the whole energy landscape. From conventional to 
renewable power, from grid technology to storage to 
electrifyi ng complex industrial processes. We deliver 
cutting-edge solutions and services to customers in the 
utility, industry, and infrastructure sectors across the entire 
value chain.
Our mission is to support companies and countries with 
what they need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 
make energy reliable, affordable, and more sustainable.
Let’s energize society.Sustainability is at the heart of our 
strategy
Step -by-step, we are making our contribution to a 
successful energy transition. We are proud of the progress 
we have made across all areas of sustainability within 
Siemens Energy. Through performance reporting and 
storytelling, our sustainability report provides a 
comprehensive overview of our sustainability activities.
Decarbonization through 
technology
To speed up the energy transition, we put all our energy into 
working with customers and partners to build sustainable 
energy systems along the value chain. We focus on three 
pillars to meet net zero: generate power with low -or zero -
emissions; transport and store energy efficiently; reduce 
emissions in industrial processes.
People with responsibility
With a common goal to master the challenges of the energy 
transition, we leverage the drive, power and expertise of 
every employee and differentiate on the how with our
customers. We aim to be employer of choice in the energy 
industry and strive for excellence in the areas of EHS 
(environment, health and safety), inclusion and diversity, as 
well as integrity.
Partnerships for innovation
We innovate today by forming new partnerships, we create 
innovations for tomorrow and shape future innovation by 
co-creating emerging technologies in our global Innovation 
Centers together with our partners.
Profitability as a foundation
To create resilient energy systems for society, we need to be a 
stable and profitable business. We focus on improving our
profitability, strong cash conversion and sustainable growth.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 02We are Siemens Energy –
a global leader in energy technology
Transparency is honored by ESG2
ratings:
Learn more about our sustainability 
activities:
1 Number of employees as of June 30, 2024
2 ESG -Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance

In a class of their own
Siemens Energy offers Tractronic® traction transformers of 
all capacity ranges for rail -based vehicles. The long product 
lifecycle means that the focus is on maximum reliability, 
economic efficiency, and safety -perfectly aligned with
customers’ requirements. This is reflected in a variety of
designs based on the following parameters :
•Power ratings -frequency, capacity, and voltage
•Dimensions, weight, and place of installation
•Dissipation and short -circuit voltages
•Driving patterns and medium -frequency performance
•Losses and impedance voltage characteristics
•Materials and technologies to meet environmental 
requirements (e.g. ester coolant)
Comprehensive portfolio
From a technical perspective, Siemens Energy Tractronic® 
traction transformers cover every need. In all capacity 
ranges up to 15 MVA and  -on request -even above, 
Siemens Energy offers single -phase and multi -phase 
transformers for machine rooms, under -floor and low -floor 
applications, and for on -roof installation -which provides 
maximum flexibility for the train’s design.
Siemens Energy can design and customize the cooling unit 
to suit customer preferences, either integrated in the
transformer in the full frame or as a separate component,  
entirely in accordance with the specific space requirements. 
Flexibility is also the order of the day when it comes to
selecting cooling fluids. We have solutions for all capacity
ranges that use oil, silicon, or an ester -based fluid (e.g. 
MIDEL 7131) that is very kind on the environment.Technical performance
•Frequencies from 16 2/3 to 60 Hz
•Operating voltages: 1.5 kV DC, 3 kV DC, 11.5 kV AC, 
15 kV AC, 25 kV AC and other special voltage levels
•Single -or multi -system versions
•Integrated smoothing and filter reactors, auxiliary 
transformers, tap changers
•Auxiliary and heating windings where required
•Traction windings as network filter reactors
Certified and awarded
Siemens Energy Tractronic® traction transformers are setting 
standards of quality and versatility around the world. Close 
cooperations with international standards committees ensure
compliance with the specific requirements and standards. 
Besides being awarded Q -1 supplier status for the German 
Railway Company Deutsche Bahn AG, Siemens Energy also 
holds the following certifications:
•ISO 9001
•ISO 14001 
•ISO 45001 
•ISO 50001
•ISO 22163 (IRIS)
•Welding qualification EN 15085 -2Tractronic® on -board traction transformer
sets the bar for quality and versatility
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 03

Nuremberg 
Germany 
Center of
competence 
Main factory 
Repair centerManufacturing, testing and repair
Mechanical 
designElectrical designOffer 
management
Asia
-PacificNorth 
AmericaOrder 
management
Quality 
management
Europe
Tractronic® -born in Germany
Tractronic® traction transformers are typically 
designed in the Center of Competence in Nuremberg, 
Germany to ensure close collaboration between 
engineering and production in the prototype stage. 
Afterwards Tractronic® traction transformers are perfectly 
prepared for serial production at our main factory in 
Nuremberg, Germany and at other Siemens Energy 
factories where required.
Manufactured over the world
Siemens Energy operates a worldwide manufacturing and 
service network to serve customers all over the world. All 
factories implement the same high -quality standards and 
enables us to meet the local content requirements.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 04
Procurement0anXfactXrinJ e xcellence 
&enter of comSetence and JloEal factor\
netZorN
Tractronic® traction transformers in details 
Tractronic® traction transformers can handle maximum 
ratings in a minimum of space, serve local content demands 
for worldwide applications, and ensure maximum reliability 
and flexibility.Siemens Energy designs and manufactures Tractronic® 
traction transformers for rail operators and train
manufacturers worldwide, that increase train efficiency 
and performance.
Tractronic® AC transformers
forelectri cand hybrid locomotives
Tractronic® DC reactors
for electric and hybrid locomotives
AUX1and HEP2transformers 
for hybrid and diesel locomotives
Tractronic® transformers
for EMUs3and BEMUs4Tractronic® transformers
for high -speed trains
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 051 AU X -auxiliary transformer 
2 HEP -Head -End-Power transformer
3 EMU -Electric Multiple Unit
4 BEMU –Battery Electric Multiple Unit
Electric locomotive Transformer data
•Customer: Siemens Mobility
•Operating region: Europe & Asia 
•Rated power: up to 6.3 MVA
•Voltage primary: AC 25kV 50Hz /
AC 15 kV 16.67 Hz / DC 3 kV / DC 1.5 kV 
•Traction: up to 4 x 1.957 kVA
•Weight: appx. 12 500 kg (example)Selected referencesH
ybrid locomotive
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 06
Transformer data
•Customer: Siemens Mobility
•Operating region: USA
•Rated power: up to 4.3 MVA
•Voltage primary: AC 25kV 60 Hz /
AC 12.5kV 60Hz  / AC 12kV 25 Hz
•Traction: up to 4 x 1.08 kVA
•Weight: appx. 7 300 kg (example)
High speedSelected referencesH
igh speed
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 0 7Transformer data
•Customer: Siemens Mobility
•Operating region: World
•Rated power: up to 4.8 MVA
•Voltage primary: AC 25kV 50 Hz /
AC 15 kV 16.67 Hz
•Traction: up to 4 x 1.848 kVA
•Weight: appx. 6 600 kg (example)
Transformer data
•Customer: Alstom
•Operating region: Europe
•Rated power: up to 2,4 MVA
•Voltage primary: AC 25kV 50 Hz /
AC 15 kV 16.67 Hz
•Traction: up to 4 x 0.9 kVA
•Weight: appx. 4 900 kg (example)
Electric multiple unitsSelected references
Electric multiple units©
 2024 Siemens Energy Page 08Transformer data
•Customer: Siemens Mobility
•Operating region: Europe / Middle East 
•Rated power: up to 2,2 MVA
•Voltage primary: AC 25kV 50 Hz /
AC 15 kV 16.67 Hz
•Traction: up to 2 x 0.950 kVA /
4 x 0.980 kVA / 6 x 0.449 kVA
•Weight: appx. 3 300 kg (example)
Transformer data
•Customer: ŠKODA Transportation
•Operating region: Europe
•Rated power: up to 2,2 MVA
•Voltage primary: AC 25kV 50 Hz
•Traction up to 2 x 0.640 kVA /
4 x 0.550 kVA
•Weight: appx. 3 650 kg (example)
Tractronic® services -designed to provide ideal 
solution tailored to your needs
Repair
Overhaul of Tractronic® traction transformers after 
damage or for corrective maintenance:
•Gas-in-oil analysis acc. IEC 61181
•Electrical and mechanical inspection
•Function control of main components 
•Visual inspection of the active part
•Repair and overhaul where required
Maintenance
Services on-demand for Tractronic® traction 
transformers:
•Spare parts
•Gas-in-oil analysis acc. IEC 61181
•Preventive maintenance, if not fulfilled by the customer 
•Corrective maintenance with recommendation for part
overhaulRevision
Project related services to increase reliability and 
lifetime of Tractronic® traction transformers:
•Optimization of Tractronic® traction transformers 
design based on operational experience
•Revision service for lifetime improvement
•Investigation of alternative solutions for failure 
prevention
•Retrofit solutionsMeeting your needs and ensuring 
long -term satisfaction
•Review the service needs
•Identify demand and requirements
•Find the ideal service solution
•On demand: long -term service contract agreement 
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 09
For all service requests please 
contact
support.traction@siemens-energy.com

© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 10Siemens Energy i sa trademar klicense dbySiemens AG.
Subjec ttochange sand errors. The informatio ngivenin thi sdocumen tonlycontain sgenera ldescription sand/o rperformanc efeature which
maynotalway sspecificall yreflec tthos edescribed ,orwhic hmayunderg omodificatio ninthecours eoffurthe rdevelopmen tofthe
products. The requeste dperformanc efeature sarebindin gonlywhe ntheyareexpressl yagree dupon in th econclude dcontract. All product
designation smaybetrademark sorproduc tname sofSiemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG o rothe rcompanie swhos eusebythirdparties
fortheirown purpose scouldviolat etheright softheowners.Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Grid Technologies Service  
Humboldtstraße 64  
90459 Nuremberg  
Germany 
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Grid Technologies  
8841 Wadford Drive  
Raleigh, NC 27616  
USA
Customer Support Center  
Tel.: +49 911 6505 6505
E­Mail: support@siemens ­energy.com
For more information, please visit our website:  
www.siemens ­energy.com/microsubstation
© Siemens Energy, 2024  