  
Grid Technologies Service  © 202 3 Siemens Energy  Page  1 
Why bullet resistant?  
 
Power transformers are essential in the effective and 
reliable transmission and distribution of electricity. Serving 
as critical nodes, transformers have been engineered over 
decades to withstand operational risks such as lightning 
strikes, severe weather events, seismic activity , and power 
fluctuations. However, up until now transformers have still 
been vulnerable to human impacts, especially those carried 
out with high -powered ballistics. Siemens Energy has taken 
significant steps to develop and test new materials and 
designs tha t enable our transformers and reactors to 
withstand ballistic attacks, ensuring their physical security.  
 
Alarming attack s on U.S. power station s  
 
There have been multiple  attacks on U .S. power stations in 
the past decade . One of the most publicized  instances  
occurred  on April 16, 2013, when an electric substation in 
Metcalf, California  was attacked by snipers with at least 
one hi gh-powered rifle. The assailants surgically knocked 
out 17 giant transformers within 20 minutes. The attack 
resulted in an estimated $16 million in damages and a 
substation rendered inoperative for 27 days. Although the 
most well publicized, the Metcalf at tack was not an isolated 
incident.   
 
Most recently , two substations  in Moore County, North 
Carolina were attacked  on December 3, 2022 , leaving an 
estimated 40,000 customers without electricity for days. 
Due to significant capital expenditure requirements and 
extended lead -times, the best practice to ensure reliable 
operation of critical transformers  and reactors is to  
preemptively  protect them from  these types of malicious 
attacks . Siemens  Energy  research and 
development  
 
In order to increase network safety and reliability, Siemens 
Energy has investigated ways to produce bullet resistant 
protection for transformers and reactors. This research has 
resulted in the first transformer and reactor protec tion 
solution of its kind. Mitigating the threat of high -powered 
ballistics, the comprehensive solution can be retrofitted 
onto equipment already in operation.  
 
Effective steel alloy  
 
Over the course of several studies, Siemens Energy found 
that a 3/8” steel sheet, which is a typical material for 
transformer tanks, can be easily penetrated by a UL 752 
Level 8 bullet. Not even concrete, which is used for fire 
protection purposes in substations, is an adequate material 
for protection as r equired by ballistic standard UL 752. 
Therefore, we developed a material that deflects UL 752 
Level 10 which is the highest class of rifle projectile 
according to  UL 752. Steel is still dominant in the design of 
protective structures and is the preferred m aterial for 
safeguarding critical transmission equipment due to the 
high absolute strength and hardness of the material 
combined with high ductility, formability,  and durability. 
Furthermore, steel often provides a more cost-effective  
bullet resistant solu tion than other materials.  
 
One -of-a-kind bullet resistant 
shielding for new and retrofit 
solutions  
 Bullet resistant 
power transformer 
retrofit   
Mitigate risks and protect assets without 
compromising performance and reliability  siemens -energy.com /t-service  
  
Grid Technologies Service  © 202 3 Siemens Energy  Page  2 
The Siemens  Energy  solution offers an innovative concept 
of bullet resistant panels supported on brackets that attach 
directly to the transformer tank. The  system may be 
installed on new units and retrofitted onto critical 
transformers already in operation. In contrast to direct 
hardening of the tank, the bullet resistant panels are able 
to protect external equipment, which nullifies the need for 
the transfo rmer to be fitted with additional components 
such as impact sensors and automated cooling valves. The 
panels protect the transformer tank, cooling equipment, 
conservator, turrets,  and the bottom of the bushings, while 
allowing the movement of air for effic ient cooling.  
 
Easy access to ancillaries  
 
Sliding doors in front of the control cabinets and pumps 
allow for ease of access during operation, while removable 
panels allow for major maintenance.  
 
Space efficient solution  
 
Mounting the bullet resistant panels directly onto the 
transformer tank is significantly more effective and space 
efficient than a fixed external masonry wall or ballistic 
barrier. The advantage is that the system may be used to 
safeguard equipment in conf ined areas. This is becoming 
increasingly important with the trend of locating critical 
electrical infrastructure in urbanized environments.  
 
Reduction of acoustic emissions  
 
Bullet resistant panels can be adapted to significantly 
reduce acoustic emissions. This may be particularly 
beneficial in urban areas. The bullet resistant panels encase 
the transformer, including cooling fans.  
 
 
 
Figure 1  Neoprene insulation can be used to reduce transmission 
vibrations from the transformer tank, thus reducing noise.  
 
Design and installation  
 
• The design of the bullet resistant system allows for fast  
and uncomplicated installation.  
• The support structure is mounted directly onto the 
transformer tank or close to the transformer on the 
transformer’s foundation.  • Full installation of the bullet resistant system can be 
comple ted within a few days.  
• Neoprene strips isolate the panels from the support 
structure and hence reduce the transmission vibrations  
from the transformer tank.  
Hardening concept for bushings  
 
As with the tank hardening concept, standard porcelain oil -
filled bushings may also be replaced with polymer or 
composite Resin Impregnated Paper (RIP) or Resin 
Impregnated Synthetic (RIS) type bushings to eliminate the 
risk of fire. Consult with Siemens Energy for the most 
suitable technology for your application.  
 
 
 
Figure 2  The system allows for easy access to key components during 
operation of the transformer.  
Published by:  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
SE GT SV  NA US  
8841 Wadford Drive  
Raleigh, NC 27616  
USA 
Article No.:  PTSV -B40019 -02-4AUS   
For more information, please visit our website:  
www.siemens -energy.com /t-service  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Legal information.  Subject to changes and errors. Th e information 
given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or 
performance features which may not always specifically reflect those 
described, or which may undergo modification in the course of 
further development of the products. The reque sted performance 
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract.  