Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Circular Economy 
for Subsea Products 
and Services
Introduction to Refurbishment, Recycle, Reuse & Reduce
August 2022
© Siemens Energy, 2022 | Tam Ferry, Lifecycle Services
Presentation contents
1What is Circular Economy?
Here to help3
4
2Circular Economy Services 5
3Connected global support
Sensor refurbishment6
7
4Continuity of Product Warranty
Contact Us8
9
© Siemens Energy, 2022 | Tam Ferry, Lifecycle Services
What is a Circular Economy? 
Definition from the Ellen MacArthur Foundation;
“A circular economy is based on the principles of 
designing out waste and pollution, keeping products 
and materials in use, and regenerating natural 
systems”
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/explore
At Siemens Energy, we are embracing a dual 
Circular Economy approach; helping our customers 
extend the life of current products through our 
Global Service centers and through our Next Gen 
Connector and Subsea Product design at our 
Subsea Excellence Centre in Ulverston, UK. 
© Siemens Energy, 2022 | Tam Ferry, Lifecycle Services

How can SE help today?
Siemens Energy are also working with customers to 
advise on recycling options as we play our part in 
the responsible and ethical disposal of connectors 
and equipment at end of life.
Siemens Energy are also working with our 
customers to extend the working life and preserve 
the warranty of our brownfield products through 
certified refurbishment and reuse.
© Siemens Energy, 2022 | Tam Ferry, Lifecycle Services

SubseaCircular Economy Services at SE Subsea
© Siemens Energy, 2022 | Tam Ferry, Lifecycle ServicesRefurbishment
•Siemens Energy are uniquely positioned to 
offer certified and approved refurbishment to 
manufacturers specification which comes 
with an OEM Warranty.
•Approved OEM Spare and replacement 
parts. Immediate access to thousands of 
brand new OEM parts. No 3rdparty 
replacement parts.
•Compliant with API 17F
•Tested to Original Factory Acceptance Test 
criteria.Service
•Siemens Energy understand the impact of down 
time in the Live Fields and the importance of quick 
resolutions for our customers.
•Siemens Energy Subsea Service Centres provide 
global support to our customers.
•Our Service Hub in Aberdeen, UK, is integrated 
with our Subsea Excellence Centre in Ulverston, 
enabling rapid access to a comprehensive source 
of OEM spare parts, meaning a timely response to 
our customer.
•Our internal Rapid Support Process ensures parts 
can be ‘ enroute’ to our Global service centre 
network in a matter of days.
Recycle
•Having the highest quality Subsea Connectors and 
Systems in the industry means there are very few 
‘end of life’ Siemens parts.
•Our Service Hub in Aberdeen are happy to support 
customers in an advisory capacity regarding 
Recycling and help customers towards Zero landfill.
•Collaborating with one of our customers on  
recycling Transportation caps and creating a new 
process through the Aberdeen Service Hub.
•Facilitate Circular Economy by linking Customers 
and requirements, to recycle surplus stockReuse
•Linked closely to Recycle, we are now seeing 
customer enquiries for Reuse of spare items.
•Our global sites can assist storage and stock 
management of customers spare stock, to ensure 
they are in a ready or refurb condition, to be utilised 
by Customers when required. 
•Customer stock storage at Siemens Energy is in 
line with our IOM and ensured preservation of 
manufacturer warranty.
•This can free up space at customer storage sites 
and create a central list of items for sharing within 
the customer organisation
Connected Global Support
© Siemens Energy, 2022 | Tam Ferry, Lifecycle ServicesNigeria/Angola
Termination ServicesMalaysia
Termination Services
Refurbishment Services
Large storage facilityMacae/Rio De Janeiro, Brazil
Termination Services
Refurbishment centreHouston USA
Termination Services
New build harnesses, 
Refurbishment & Recycle centre, 
Sensor Refurbishment & Recycle Centre
Pressure Vessel and testing to API17FAberdeen UK, Service Hub 
Central OEM parts store, 
Refurbishment & Recycle centre, 
New build harnesses, Pressure 
Vessel and testing to API17F
Sensor health checks
SUBSEA
Local support through Global reach
*excludes optional HVAC & PD testingBomlo, Norway 
Termination Services
Sensor Refurbishment & Recycle 
Centre
New build harnesses, Pressure
Vessel and testing to *API17F

Sensor Testing & Refurbishment
© Siemens Energy, 2022 | Tam Ferry, Lifecycle ServicesOur Manufacturing site in Bomlo, Norway 
provides primary support for Full sensor 
refurbishment, including recalibration, painting, 
pressure testing and FAT to manufacturer 
specification.
At our secondary support site in Houston, USA, 
Siemens Energy have made significant 
investment to support our customers’ Sensor 
refurbishment needs in the Americas. This 
includes field testing, recalibration and global 
scale testing. 
Finally, our Service Hub in Aberdeen can run a 
“health check” on the sensor, which is sufficient 
in certain customer requirements. If further 
sensor work is required, typically the sensor 
harness will be sent to our manufacturing site at 
Bomlo, Norway for full Sensor refurbishment.

Benefits of SE Product Warranty 
By choosing Siemens Energy, the OEM, for refurbishing and service 
you will benefit from;
•40 years of Subsea excellence
•Robust Business processes
•Up to date Documentation and procedures
•Product Safety controls
•World leading Quality standards
•Unrivalled Product and technical know how
•Unparalleled Safety record
•Protected from IP risks
Relax in the certainty and reassurance that your product and service 
is being dealt with by the best in class.
Our highly experience site and factory Technicians are recertified 
annually, giving peace of mind with SE supplied, refurbished and 
installed OEM products
© Siemens Energy, 2022 | Tam Ferry, Lifecycle Services
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Contact page
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Tam Ferry
Senior Project Manager
GP | Reg UK | Lifecycle Services
Abbotswell Road
Aberdeen AB12 3AD
Scotland, UK
Phone: +44 1224 417707
Mobile: +44 07808014689
thomas.ferry@siemens -energy.com
siemens -energy.com 
© Siemens Energy, 2022 | Tam Ferry, Lifecycle ServicesSiemens Energy -Subsea Webpage
Circulareconomy.subsea@siemens -energy.com
for all service, refurbishment and recycle enquiries
Installation.subsea@siemens -energy.com
for all site and termination enquiries