1.Subsea Switchgear
The subsea switchgear is the unit responsible for 
power distribution and protection of other units 
in a subsea power grid. It will receive medium 
voltage from a transmission line or subsea 
transformer, distributing both medium voltage 
and low voltage
 to different consumers like 
subsea variable speed drives or fixed-frequency 
loads.
The subsea switchgear is equipped with vacuum 
circuit breakers and SIPROTEC protection relays, 
providing reliabl e and field-proven protection to 
its medium voltage consumers. It uses the IEC 
61850 standard protocol, making it easy to 
integrate to topside protetion and power 
management systems
 Each low voltage 
distribution circuit is also monitored and 
protected by both semiconductors and 
traditional contactors, combining
 fast response 
time and galvanic insulation.
Parts of the subsea switchgear are fluid-filled 
and pressure compensated, while others are gas-
filled. This design allows excellent reliability by 
providing adequate environmental conditions to 
the different comp
onents in the system.
Siemens Energy subsea switchgear design can 
be typically equipped with 2 or 4 medium 
voltage circuit
 breakers, but it can be scaled up 
to fulfill project-specific needs.The subsea switchgear has also an integrated 
condition and monitoring system that is 
seamlessly integrated in the Siemens Energy 
subsea power control system and can easily be 
integrated with thi rd party systems. This 
provides the operator with excellent 
transparency into the equipment and the status 
of its integrity, enabling optimization operation 
for enhanced performance and safety.
Key features Subsea Switchgear
•Rated voltage range up to 38 kVac
•Rated current rating up to 1000 A (500 A per
feeder)
•Modular design with vacuum circuit breakers
•Pressure-compensated design
•Robust enclosure design with optimized
natural cooling properties
•Biodegradable and environmentally friendly
MIDEL 7131® fluid filling
•Advanced condition monitoring system
•Qualified for 3,000 meters water depthsiemens-energy.com/subsea
Subsea Switchgear
Supporting the factory on the seabed:  Power 
distribution
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 1
Figure  1 Subsea SwitchgearPublishe
d by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Trans formation o f Industry
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen
Germany
For more information, please visit our website: 
siemens-energy.com/ subsea
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document   only contains general descriptions  and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, 
or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract.
Siemens Energy  is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2
for the US published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Trans formation o f Industry
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, F L 32826
USA