1. Subsea Variable-Speed Drive
The subsea variable speed drive (VSD) is the unit 
responsible for supplying power and protecting 
subsea motors for compressors and pumps. It 
uses the field pr oven Siemens Perfect Harmony 
multi-cell topol ogy with bypass capability, which 
provides high levels of redundancy and 
reliability. Thi s drive is able to provide efficient 
and reliable control to different motor types, like 
induction motors an d permanent magnet 
motors.
Siemens Energy sub sea VSD design is flexible 
and can be adapted  to different appl ications. 
Stand alone applications without other typical 
units from a subsea power grid is also possible. 
The multi-cell topology can be full y utilized if 
scaling is requir ed, or even if multiple loads shall 
be supplied by the same unit.
The subsea VSD i s a fluid-filled and p ressure-
compensated unit. Its natural-convection 
cooling reduces maintenance requi rements and 
provides excellent reliability. The different 
components of the subsea VSD have been tested 
for pressure and fluid compatibil ity in an 
extensive qualifi cation program. In addition, the 
design was verifi ed using a prototyp e 
throughout extensive tests in factory and in 
shallow water conditions, performed  in Norway.The subsea VSD has also an integrated 
condition and mo nitoring system that is 
seamlessly integrated in the Siemens Energy 
subsea power control system and can easily be 
integrated with th ird party systems. This 
provides the operator with excel lent 
transparency into the equipment and  the status 
of its integrity, enabling optimization operation 
for enhanced performance and safety.
Key features Subsea Variable-Speed Drive
•Output voltage up  to 7.3 kVac
•Output current up to 700 A
•Output power up to 8.8 MVA
•Modular and redundant design allows scaling 
of voltage and power
•Built-in isolati on transformer at th e input
•Pressure-compensated design
•Robust enclosure design with optimi zed 
natural cooling properties
•Biodegradable and environmentally fri endly 
MIDEL 7131® fl uid filling
•Advanced condition monitoring system
•Qualified for 3,000 meters water depthsiemens-energy.com/subsea
Subsea Variable-Speed 
Drive
Supporting the factory on the seabed:  
Supplying power and protecting subsea 
motors for compressors and pumps
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 1
Figure  1 Subsea Variable-Speed Drive
For more inform ation, please visit our websi te: siemens-energy.com/ subsea
Subject to change s and errors. The information gi ven in this document   only contains general descriptions  and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the produc ts. The 
requested performance features are binding onl y when they are expressly agree d upon in the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy  is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Trans formation o f Industry
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen
Germany
For the US Published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Trans formation o f Industry
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, F L 32826
USA