1. Subsea DigiGRIDTM EDU-3
The main function ality of Subsea Dig iGRIDTM 
EDU-3 is to switch several identical  and 
independent power outlets in a controlled 
manner, and at the same time independ ently 
monitor the qual ity of the power  delivered to the 
outlets.
No changes in vol tage level or type (AC or DC) 
are to take place between the power inlet to the 
Subsea DigiGRIDTM EDU-3 unit and the outlets. 
Given any voltag e level or type that the Subsea 
DigiGRIDTM EDU-3 can swi tch and control, the 
unit itself shall  operate on that i nput voltage.
Independent overcur rent and overvoltage 
protection are included for each outlet, and trip 
level could be set for each outlet.
Two types of EDU- 3 design are avai lable, one 
design for switchin g and operating on AC 
voltages (single- and three-phase) and one 
design for switchin g and operating on AC 
voltages. 
Power outlets coul d also be enabled with SIL-3 
certified Safety Instrumented Functi ons (SIF) for 
some power outlets.siemens-energy.com/subsea
Subsea DigiGRIDTM
EDU-3
Enabling switching of several identical and 
independent power outlets 
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 1
Image shows Subsea 
DigiGRID TMlanding
For more inform ation, please visit our websi te: siemens-energy.com/ subsea
Subject to change s and errors. The information gi ven in this document   only contains general descriptions  and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the produc ts. 
The requested performance features are binding only when they a re expressly agree d upon in the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy  is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2
Image shows Subsea DigiGRIDTM landedPubli
shed by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Trans formation o f Industry
Freyeslebenstraße 1
91058 Erlangen
GermanyFor the US Published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Trans formation o f Industry
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, F L 32826
USA