1.DigiTRONf
DigiTRONf is Siemens Energy's response to a 
need for higher reliability fiber optic (FO) 
connectors. 
Following extensive qualification testing, the 
trusted name of DigiTRON has launched a12 way 
wet-mate fiber connector with a focus on 
reliable and repeatable performance, low optical 
loss and increased fiber count as standard - while 
being a cost effective alternative to existing 
products.
•More connections possible within the system  
optical budget
•Reduced connector count is possible with 
greater levels of redundancy
•Repeatability for increased system reliability  
and availability
•Confidence in increased use of sub sea fiber  
connections
DigiTRONf has achieved high mate counts with 
no oil-loss or need for oil-flushing and exceeds 
the performance requirements of the Seafom 
TSD-02 specification.
DigiTRONf connectors share many common 
features with our DigiTRON range of connectors, 
making them operationally robust and familiar to 
users. These include identical materials, CE 
principle sealing, alignment method, latch and 
indicator, ROV handle and AquaTRON hose 
system. 1.1 Key Features
•12-way APC
•1,000 mates qualified
•No maintenance
•High repeatability
•Low optical loss Type lL<0.2dB RL>70dBsiemens-energy.com/subsea
DigiTRONf
Fiber Optic  Reliability  Peformance
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 1Siemens Energy offers a complete product portfolio 
to cover all the c onnection and measurement needs 
of subsea control systems and XT equipment. 
•Manufactured Und er One Roof in the UK
(Sensor/Norway)
•One contact for multiple scopes of supply / 
Best prices for increased volume / joined up  
delivery schedules

The DigiTRON range: 
DigiTRON+ - LV comms and power, AC and DC 
qualified
DigiTRONe - Ethernet, 100 Mbps, SiiS level 3  
DigiTRON3 - 3kV AC rated system, long step-outs  
DigiTRONf - High  reliability 12-way fiber optic 
connection 
DigiTRONacs - Advance Converter and  Swich:  FO 
to copper conversion: 
© 202 2 Siemens Energy Page 2
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Trans formation o f Industry
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, F L 32826
USAPublished by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Trans formation o f Industry
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen
Germany
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in  this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. 
The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. Associated product  ranges: 
ElecTRON
XT electrical feed-throughs
SpecTRON
HV electrical connectors
WEPS & SDP 
Well-head PT sensor and 
subsea differential pressure 
sensors
For more informati on, please contact: Phone:  +44 1229 580500  Email:  ulverstonte chnicalcontrols.gb@siemens-energy.com
Siemens Energy is  a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.siemens-energy.c om/subsea