The ACT has many decades of track record in the 
Oil & Gas market, and other subsea applications 
and is TRL7 per API standard and features include: siemens-energy.com /subsea
Advanced Cable Termination 
(ACT)
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 1Advanced Cable Termination 
•Provides a reliable  subsea termination of
electrical umbilical cable s, and  is designed
for low voltage subsea power distribution,
using wetmate connectors.
•Oil filled, pressure compensated and
temperature compensated, double barrier
system .
•Tested at  450 bar and desi gned for 25
years lifetime.
•Designed for use with wetmate connectors
up to 3kV range.
•Can accommodate e lectrical conductor s up
to 16mm²  in size and is suitable for  a
variety of different  low voltage and
communication standards .
•Modular  system to allow for various
project  requirements  with regards
to number of cable inputs and
hose/connector outputs.
•Metal lic parts  exposed  to seawater are
made from  Titanium  grade  2 to provide
corrosion  resistance  without  the need
for cathodic protection.
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Trans formation o f Industry
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen
Germany
Siemens Energy is  a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.•Double barrier against water intrusion
•Pressure and temperature compensated
•3,000 meter water depth design
•Modular design all owing for multiple cable
entries and hose exists.
•Temperature ratings: Storage: -40°C to 70°C
(70°C short term) Installed subsea: -5°C to 40°C
For the US Published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Trans formation o f Industry
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, F L 32826
USA
For more information, please visit our website:  siemens-energy.com/subsea
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may
not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The
requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.  All specifications are subject to 
change without notice in line with Siemens Energy policy of continual product development. 