Document No: 0072 
www.siemens.com/energy/connector-operations-manual 
Document No:  0072
Page 1 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  SpecTRON  5 
PROTECTION, STORAGE, SHIPMENT, UNPACKING,  
DEPLOYMENT & MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS 
General  
Thank you
 for purchasing a Siemens Subsea  SpecTRON  5 product. The information that follows is 
an overview of the protection, storage, shipment, unpacking, deployment and maintenance 
instructions for Siemens Subsea SpecTRON  products.  
Siem
ens Subsea  recommends  the termination of all equipment only be undertaken by suitably 
trained and qualified personnel.  
Revisi
on Details:  
Rev 0 First Issue  06/10/09  N. Knight W. Barrett
Rev 1 -AquaTRON 2” Bend Radius
detail added (Page 4)
-SpecTRON  naming convention
corrected throughout theprocedure
-Note added to 4.2 – “Project
Specific Connector storage
Temperature may vary”.24/11/11  P.Edmondson S.Spencer
Rev 2  -Added section 2 – Specification
-Added section 3 - Marking
-Added section 4 .1 – Lifting of
Jumpers & Connectors
-Added section 5 .1 – Protective
caps.-Section 7.1.4 - Replaced
SpecTRON 10 cleaning figure
with SpecTRON 5 connectors.
-Made procedure generic to
cover Penetrators as well asConnectors.
-Section 7.1.6 - Added Snohvit
type connectors to post mating
check.
-Section 7.1.4 - Jet washing in
Receptacle shroud allowedprovided no Multilam / Bal
spring fitted.
Added Section 9 - Installation13/8/12 W. Barrett C.Plant
Rev 3  1 – Clarified both Dummy Plugs 
and Receptacles are covered by 
this document.  
2.2 – Handling Temperature 
added of - 25°C to +70°C.  
4.1 – Corrected typo to refer to 7/11/12  W. Barrett C. Plant

Page 2 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  figures 4 & 5.  
7.1.1 – Added information 
regarding unmated plugs in 
seawater.  
7.1.1 – Clarified 28 days 
exposure time to Receptacles 
only.  
Rev 4  Front cover updated  
1.0 – add product safety to 
scope  
2.0 - Incorporate HSE & 
Product safety Information 
11.0 - Information & Notes Table 07-03-14 M. Gretton B. Leach
Rev 5  New Front cover design & web 
link added 1-05-14 K.Mutton W.Barrett
Rev 6  2.0 – Additional note to HSE 
section regarding unmated 
receptacles  05-06-14 M.Gretton B.Leach
Rev 7  Section 10.2 - more detailed 
added with images to the 
routing of hose.  
Section 10.2.1 formers added as recommended designs for 
formers.  
Sections 10.2.2 added to define 
routing of hoses in fix 
installations  
Section 10.2.3 added to define routing of hoses in dynamic installations  17/12/15  J.Keith M.Earnshaw

Page 3 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  Contents
1. SCO
PE ........................................................................................................ 4 
2. HE
ALTH & SAFETY .................................................................................... 4 
3. SP
ECIFICATION  ......................................................................................... 5 
3.1 ELECTRICAL ............................................................................................... 5 
3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL  ...................................................................................... 5 
3.3 HOSE & CABLE .......................................................................................... 5 
4. MA
RKING ................................................................................................... 6 
5. PRO
TECTION, HANDLING AND SHIPMENT  ............................................. 7 
5.1 LIFTING OF JUMPERS & CONNECTORS  .................................................. 8 
6. UNPA
CKING  ............................................................................................. 10 
6.1 PROTECTIVE CAPS ................................................................................. 10 
7. ST
ORAGE  ................................................................................................. 12 
7.1 SHORT TERM STORAGE  ......................................................................... 12 
7.2 LONG TERM STORAGE  ........................................................................... 12 
8. DEP
LOYMENT & MAINTENANCE  ........................................................... 13 
8.1 SpecTRON  5 ............................................................................................. 13 
9. MA
NUALLY MATING/ DE -MATING ROV CONNECTORS  ....................... 20 
9.1 MATING PROCEDURE  ............................................................................. 20 
9.2 DE-MATING PROCEDURE  ....................................................................... 22 
10. INSTALLATION  ................................................................... ..................... 23 
10.1  CONNECTOR & PENETRATOR INSTALLATION  ..................................... 23 
10.2  HOSE MANAGEMENT, ROUTING AND SUPPORT  ................................. 23 
11. INF
ORMATION & NOTES / HEALTH & SAFETY FEEDBACK ................ 29 

Page 4 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  1.SCOPE
This
 procedure includes information on the following connector types  
•Spec
TRON  5 ROV Plugs
•SpecTRON 5 ROV Receptacles
•SpecTRON  5 Penetrators
•SpecTRON 5 ROV Dummy Connectors  (Plugs & Receptacles)
•SpecTRON 5 ROV Parking Receptacle
Any
 information, records or Health and Safety feedback that needs to be detailed, can be recorded 
in the punch list at the rear of the document  
2.HEALTH & SAFETY
Manual
 Handling, Lifting and Carrying are known to be the largest contributors to occupational ill -
health.  
Ensure that mechanical handling aids are used whenever possible to avoid manual handling.  
Where manual handling is considered appropriate for the task safe lifting guidelines must be followed, e.g. adopt correct posture, consider team lifting, employ safe lifting technique, etc.  
Only competent persons are permitted to perform tasks without supervision, if in doubt ask.  
Good Housekeeping avoids Slips Trips and Falls, keep your area clean and tidy.  
It is the operator’s responsibility to comply with current Company & regional health and safety legislation.  
Caution shall be exercised during assembly to ensure that fittings and hydraulic / pneumatic 
equipment are properly installed. 
In 
the event of a safety incident or any safety improvement suggestions , please contact the Health & 
Safety Department at prodsafe.gb@siemens.com  and/or complete and return the punch list in 
section 11.0.    
Not
e – All receptacle’s (male pins) must be mated to its correct mating half before it is energised 
(this includes the correct Test, Dummy and Wet Mate Pair).  

Page 5 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  3.SPECIFICATION
The fol
lowing is a basic specification for SpecTRON 5 connectors. Actual product may vary. Please 
refer to product specific data sheet or Project specific Design Input Document for more detailed 
information.  
3.1 ELECTRICAL  
Rated Voltage:  2.9/5(5.8)kV  or 3.6/ 6(7.2)kV  
Rated Frequency:  1- 100Hz
Rated Current:  150A
3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL  
Storage Temperature:   - 40°C to + 70°C
Handling Temperature:  - 25°C to +70°C
Operat ing temperature:  - 4°C to + 20°C
Max Deployment Rate:  20bar / min
Max Water Depth:   1330 m
3.3 HOSE & CABLE  
3.3.1  AquaTRON 200 (2” bore)  
Outside Diameter:   66 mm 
Minimum Bend Radius:  375 mm 
Weight in Air  (Inc cable and oil):  4.3 kg/m  
Weight in Water  (Inc cable and oil):  0.79 kg/m  
Storage Temperature:   -40°C to + 70°C
3.3.2  Gorilla (1.5” bore)  
Outside Diameter:   51.8 mm  
Minimum Bend Radius:  375 mm 
Weight in Air  (Inc cable and oil):  2.8 kg/m  
Weight in Water  (Inc cable and oil) : 0.64 kg/m  
Storage Temperature:   -25°C to + 70°C

Page 6 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  4.MARKING
Si
emens Subsea Connectors and Penetrators are marked with the Siemens Subsea part number 
and unique serial  number . Marking locations are typically on the Plug Nose and Receptacle Shroud 
for Wet Mate Connectors and on the Flange of Penetrators . Figur e 1 show s the typical marking 
locations for a Plug and Receptacle.  Marking is typically by laser etching.  
Harnesses are also marked with the Siemens Subsea part number and  unique serial num ber for the 
harness  as shown in Figure 2. Client  and project specific  information is also usually added to these 
labels. Labels are typically black text on a yellow background underneath clear heatshrink. Typically, 
labels are located at each end of the harness and also centrally.  
Figur
e 1 – Marking of Connectors  
Figur
e 2 – Marking of Hoses 
Marking of Siemens Subsea Part No 
and Serial No for individual 
 
Marking of Siemens 
Subsea Part No, Serial 
No and client information 
on harnesses

Page 7 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  5.PROTECTION, HANDLING AND SHIPMENT
S
iemens Subsea electrical connectors are manufactured primarily from materials such as 316L 
stainless steel (UNS S31603), and Super Duplex stainless steel (UNS S32550) . Stainless steel 316L 
(UNS S31603) connectors and penetrators must be connected to a CP (C athodic Protection) system 
at all times  in order to withstand harsh saliferous  environments . Super Duplex stainless steel (UNS 
S32550) connectors  and penetrators should be isolated from the CP system  to reduce the possibility 
of hydrogen embrittlement and withstand harsh saliferous  environments.  However, the connector 
insert and exposed parts are susceptible to mechanical damage if not adequately protected. Dust 
caps are fitted to all Siemens Subsea connectors before transport, but can be fitted with protective 
caps if specified by the customer. Caps are recommended to remain in place until connectors are deployed subsea.  
The c
onnectors  can be shipped singularly or in multiples.  Care should be taken to protect the 
connector with bubble wrap or similar wrapping materials to avoid surface damage during transit . If 
large numbers are shipped in one consignment a suitably reinforced box will be necessary to withstand the weight.  Protection caps must be fi tted at all times during transport.  
 If storage is carried out in saline conditions,  e.g. on a ship’s  deck or hold,  then full dummy 
connectors should be used. 
B
ulkhead type connectors with exposed tailing wires should be packed and shipped in a suitably 
sized box to allow adequate space for the tailing wires without bending or kinking.  
If the connectors are assembled onto hoses these must be suitably coiled and secured with tape to prevent uncoiling during transit. The following bend radii are recommended for storage/transport of 
hoses.  
•G
orilla 1 .5” NB – Minimum  bend Radi  – 250mm
•AquaTRON 2” NB (AquaTRON 200) - Minimum bend radii - 375mm
C
onnectors are designed to withstand vibration that occurs during transportation and to withstand 
being dropped from a height of 1m whilst in packaging.  
Fi
gure 3 shows how a SpecTRON  5 harness is packaged. The connectors on either end of the 
harness have a transportation cap fitted and are surrounded in bubble wrap. The base of the shipping crate is lined with protective packaging and the harness is positioned so that the hose can 
be coiled without kinking. Any loose items are placed in a box inside the crate. Protective packaging 
is then placed on top of the harness and secured in place with a wooden baton, before the lid of the 
crate is screwed down.        
Fi
gure 3 – Packaging  

Page 8 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  5.1 LIFTING  OF JUMPERS & CONNECTORS  
SpecTRON  5 harnesses typically weigh in excess of 30 kg and hence should not be manually 
handled.  Refer to the specific harness drawing for weight and length details. The connectors can be 
safely slung around the locations shown in Figure 4 and Figure 5. The centre of gravity for the 
Connector or Penetrator is usually marked on the outline drawing (supplied in documentation pack) 
but must be verified at low level before commencing any lift.  
For SPO or API flange penetrators, lifting eye mounting holes are provided on the flange at 12 and 6 o’clock positions.    
 ROV Receptacle      ROV Plug  
Fi
gure 4 - Recommended lift positions – Plug & Receptacle  
A
PI or SPO Penetrators  
Figure 5 - Recommended lift positions - Penetrators  
Sling around each side of the 
Receptacle Flange  Do not sling around 
handle as this may 
release protective cap Sling around Plug 
Rear Shell 
between handle bars 
Affix suitable lifting eye  
SPO = M12 x 20mm max  
API = M16 x 25mm max  

Page 9 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  Dummy, or parking connectors weigh less than 15 kg and can be lifted by hand, however correct 
lifting practice should be observed at all times.  
CONNECTORS /PENETRATORS  SHOULD NEVER BE LIFTED BY THE HOSE OR CABLE, 
AS THIS PLACES UNNECESSARY STRAIN ON THE CONNECTOR INTERNALS  AND 
MAY RESULT IN LOSS OF CONTINUITY.  
On ha
rnesses, the cable or hose should be supported during lifts to minimise strain on the 
Connector/Penetrat or.  The maximum recommended length of hose which can be unsupported 
during a lifting operation is 5 meters . 
P
rotective caps should remain on wherever possible during lifting operations to minimise the risk of 
damage to connector sealing or electrical components.  This particularly applies to penetrators.  

Page 10 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  6.UNPACKING
R
emove wrapping material taking care to inspect for any surface damage or items that may have 
become separated from the connector, such as ‘O' seals. Do not use a knife to cut the wrapping 
material, as this may cause damage to any elastomeric parts of the connector. Do not remove 
protection caps until connectors are ready for installation.  On removal do not allow the hoses to drag 
over the edges of the packing crate.  
6.1 PROTECTIVE CAPS   
All SpecTRON 5 C onnectors/Penetrators  come supplied with a protective cap. These can either be 
dust caps, protective caps or IP caps (Ingress Protection caps). Dust caps  (typically yellow in colour)  
can be simply removed by twisting or pulling them  off. Protective caps and IP caps (typically black  in 
colour ) can be removed as detailed below.  
6.1.1  ROV Plug Cap  
The ROV Plug cap is latched onto the Plug connector via the connector latching mechanism. In order to remove the cap, it is recommended that the operator stand the Plug vertically on the cap, stand on the flange of the cap and pull on the ROV handle of the Plug connector. This will disengage 
the latching mechanism of the Plug. Do not try to pull the c ap directly off the plug as this may 
damage the latching mechanism of the Plug.   
Fi
gure 6 - ROV Plug Cap  
R
efitting the Plug cap can be done by simply pushing the cap back onto the nose of the plug until 
the latching mechanism of the plug engages.  
Secure cap by 
standing on flange  Pull on ROV 
Handle  

Page 11 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  6.1.2  ROV Receptacle Cap  
The ROV Receptacle Cap can be removed by simply securing the Receptacle via suitable means (if 
not already mounted to the structure) and then pulling on the cap. Slots are provided on each side of the cap to allow finger access and easy removal.  
Fi
gure 7 - ROV Receptacle Cap  
Refitting the Receptacle cap can be done by simply pushing the cap back into the Receptacle 
shroud until the spring plungers engage, locking the cap into place.  
6.1.3  Penetrator Cap  
Penetrator caps would usually be removed by Siemens Subsea  site engineers during the 
terminati on of the Penetrator to the module. It is recommended that only trained personnel remove 
Penetrator caps though details are provided here for information only. Penetrators may be supplied 
with pre -terminated tails which are sealed with a cable gland. This should be slackened off prior to 
removal of the cap. To remove the cap, unfasten  the 2 cap head screws  using a suitable allen key 
and then simply slide the cap off the internal termination of the Penetrator, over the tails.  
Fi
gure 8 - Penetrator Cap 
Refitting the Penetrator cap is a reversal of the removal procedure.  
Secure Receptacle 
Connector (if not 
mounted to Structure)  Pull on Cap 
to remove  Use Finger slots 
to pull on cap  
If fitted, slacken off 
compression nut on 
cable gland using 
suitable spanner  Unfasten cap head 
screws and slide off cap  

Page 12 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  7.STORAGE
7.1 SHORT TERM STORAGE  
Prior to installation the connectors are sensitive to environments where grit and dirt are present.  To 
prevent ingress of the above, they should be stored in a clean dry area and be protected by bubble wrap or similar wrapping material.  Protection caps must be fitted if supplied. 
7.2 LONG TERM STORAGE  
The connectors must be stored in a clean dry area and be protected by bubble w rap or similar.  
Suitable protection caps must be fitted (instrumentation connectors require sealed caps), and the 
storage temperature should be between -40°C and 70°C  (Project Specific Connector s storage 
Temperature may vary). Humidity of the store room should be below 75%. Very moist or very dry 
conditions should be avoided.  The Plug connector should be protected from strong sunlight and 
strong artificial light with a high ultra violet content. Moulded connectors should be placed within black bags to avoid direct sunlight. The connectors should not be allowed to come into contact with 
solvents, oil, greases or any other semi -solid materials.  If glanded connectors are to be stored bolted 
into their interfaces ensure the cable entry point into the gland is covered to prevent water ingress.  

Page 13 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  8.DEPLOYMENT & MAINTENANCE
The following section details deployment and maintenance instructions for SpecTRON 5 connectors
& hose.
A
ll information contained within this section is generic. Where customer or projec t-specific 
information is required, please refer to the relevant project specification or scope of supply.  
NOTE: IT IS IMPORTANT TO ISOLATE AND EARTH PRIOR TO DISCONNECT IN ORDER 
TO REMOVE ANY STRAY CHARGES IN THE SYSTEM. IF LEFT, THIS CAN INDUCE 
CORROSIO N ON THE EXPOSED PINS ONCE THE PLUG IS REMOVED.  
8.1 SpecTRON  5 
Figure 9 – SpecTRON  5 Power Connectors.  
8.1.1  Genera l SpecTRON  
The SpecTRON  5 range of Power connectors has been developed for long term reliable high power 
control system applications associated with offshore installations. The underwater mateable capacity of these connectors is achieved using pressure compensated electrical inserts employing the CE 
principle.  
C
onnectors are usually supplied with protective caps. The protective caps must be removed prior to 
mating the connectors.  Refer to  section 6.1 for instructions for removal of protective caps.  
A
ll mild steel sealing interfaces shall be inlayed with Inconel  625, or similar, where no additional 
protection (e.g. CP, Paint etc.) can be provided. This is to prevent localised pitting of the interface.  
I
f the connectors are to be left unmated, in seawater, for any length of time dummy connectors must 
be used to protect the pin contacts in the receptacle connectors. Over exposure will increase the risk of corrosion damage or marine growth on the contact surfaces of the receptacle contact pins. This 
could lead to damage to the seals and insulation within the socket contacts.  
Plug connectors may be left unmated, in seawater, for an indefinite period of time. However it is recommended that the Plug connectors are mated into a Parking Receptacle during this time in order to protect the socket contacts and latching mechanism. 
It is good practice to always fit the protective cap when a connector is unmated topside prior to 
deployment to provide mechanical protection. 

Page 14 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  NOTE: 28 DAYS IS THE MAXIMUM CUMMULATIVE ALLOWABLE EXPOSURE OF 
UNPROTECTED CONTACT PINS  (RECEPTACLE CONECTORS ONLY)  TO SEAWATER 
OVER THE LIFE OF THE CONNECTOR. THIS ONLY APPLIES WITH POWER OFF.  
The appropriate test connector must always be used to make electrical contact during testing. 
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES  should a foreign object (such as a screwdriver, test probe, or 
crocodile clip) be used as a test connection as this could damage the seals and insulation. Such actions will invalidate the warranty of the connector.  
Guide pins must never be removed from test connectors as this can lead to damage and will 
invalidate the connector warranty.  
NOTE: UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES MUST CONNECTORS BE DEMATED WHILST 
LIVE. NEITHER SHOULD CONNECTORS BE PARTIALLY MATED AND POWER 
APPLIED.  
R
efer to project specific data sheets and scope of supply drawings for performance specifications 
and detailed deployment instructions.  
NOTE: NO PART OF THE CONNECTORS SHOULD BE DISMANTLED PRIOR TO OR 
DURING DEPLOYMENT, APART FROM THE REMOVAL OF PROTECTIVE CAPS, SINCE 
THERE ARE NO USER SERVICEABLE PARTS INSIDE.  
8.1.2  Protection of R eceptacle Contact Pins 
Under no circumstances must the contact pins in the receptacle connector be exposed to seawater 
with power on.  If this situation does occur the contact surfaces of the pins will very rapidly degrade 
by electrolytic action. If these damaged pins are subsequently mated into a soc ket insert there is a 
very high risk  of damage to the insulation and seals within the plug connector . 
8.1.3  Over  current Capacity 
Over  current capacity varies for each product. Please refer to the product datasheet.  

Page 15 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  8.1.4  Removal of Marine Growth and Calcareous Deposits  
To remove calcite growth from Siemens Subsea connectors, a solution of 50% Citric Acid is 
recommended. All Seawater exposed elastomeric materials in Siemens Subsea connectors have 
been fully tested against 50% Citric Acid and are compatible for a duration of 1 hour. In addition, the 
thermoplastic materials have good resistance to Citric Acid. 
O
ther acid cleaners, such as 50% Acetic Acid, should not be used as they may cause deterioration 
of the elastomeric materials.  
C
hiselling and abrasive methods are not recommended.  Wiping with a soft, clean cloth is 
acceptable providing care is taken inside the Receptacle shroud to avoid disturbing the earth continuity contact (i.e., Multilam or Bal spring type), or to impart a bending load on the power pin/s. Use of water jetting for the removal of sand/silt is acceptable given the following limitations:  
•A
ll forms of water jet cleaning of connectors in air must be avoided.  The likelihood of
damage to connectors is great, given the high localised impact velocities of the water jet.
•S
ubmerged water jet cleaning of connectors is acceptable, providing the critical areas
identified in Figure 10 are avoided.  Particularly, the jet should not be directed at the Plug
shuttle pins as this could result in a risk of water being forced through the primary seals
and/or front seal.  Remaining areas indicated below are suitable for submerged water jetcleaning.
*
The water jet should not be directed into the mouth of the Receptacle shroud if  the connector is
fitted with an earth continuity contact  (i.e. Multilam or Bal spring) as this could be displaced.
   
 

Page 16 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  Fi
gure 10  – Connector power w ashing precautions.  
8.1.5  Stab Plate Connectors  
•Compliance
One half of a stab mate connector pair must be allowed to float so that misalignment
tolerances can be accommodated.
•Mate/De -Mate Speed
The connectors have been designed to operate across a wide range of mate / de- mate
s
peeds with POWER OFF. There is no practical limit to the speed at which the connectors
maybe mated or de -mated, however as a guide:
a)Mating speed should not exceed 1 m/s.
b)De-matin g speed should not exceed 5 m/s
•Pre-Mating Checks
Before mating, the receptacle connector should be checked for debris. The connectors havebeen designed to accommodate sand and silt contamination, however large pieces of debri
s
s
hould be removed using a water jet.
•Partial Disconnection
Partial disconnection with the contact pin remaining between the primary and secondary
diaphragms is not recommended. In this condition the level of insulation between the contact
pin and socket contact is reduced and the connector is relying on the primary seals within the
plug. There is also an increased risk of insulation break down at increased voltages.
•Interrupted Connection
Interrupted connection (i.e. Partial mate to full de- mate) can be carried out without any
adverse affect to connectors, as long as the power is off.
•Cathodic Protection:
Stainless steel 316L (UNS S31603) connectors must be connected to the CP (Cathodic
Protection) system at all times. Super Duplex stainless steel (UNS S32550) connectors
should be isolated from the CP system to reduce the possibility of hydrogen embrittlement.
 
 
/* 

Page 17 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  8.1.6  ROV Connectors  
•Alignment and Mating Technique
These connectors have been designed to self align during mating. The connectors must be
roughly aligned using the alignment marks on the connector body / alignment flange. The
compliance within the connector handle, and the mating half, has sufficient compliance toaccommodate fine adj ustments during the final approach prior to connector engagement.
The mating stroke should be as close as possible to one smooth movement, i.e. avoid‘pumping’.
•Pre Mating Checks
Before mating, the receptacle connector should be checked for debris. The connectors have
been designed to accommodate sand and silt contamination, however large.
•Mechanical Forces & Misalignment During Mating / De- Mating
If mate / demate forces, maximum misalignment or overstroking forces have been defined,
these will be specified in the product datasheet or design input document.
•De-Mating
De-mating is achieved by a straight pull on the ROV handle sufficient to release the latching
mechanism.  Do not pull on the gland or hose.
•Cathodic Protection
ROV connectors are designed to operate isolated from the CP [Cathodic Protection] system.
ROV connectors will not suffer damage by being connected to the CP system, however there
will be a tendency for increased calcareous deposits on metal surfaces, and the possibility of
hydrogen embrit tlement.
•Mating / De -Mating of ROV connectors by Operator
Refer to Section 9.1 for procedure for operator  mating of the ROV connectors.
•Post -Mating checks
Determining a correct mating of the connectors must be done by visual inspection only.  A
pull-check on the handle should never be made as this will release the latching mechanism
causing the connectors to separate.
Ther
e are two types of mating indicator employed on the SpecTRON 5 ROV connectors .
R
efer to connector datasheet or outline drawing in the documentation pack to determi ne
w
hich connector type you have. The connectors are fundamentally the same, employing t he
s
ame CE principle. The main difference is that they have differing mating indicators as shown
in the following figures.

Page 18 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  
Figure 11  – Type 1 Mating check - Connectors fully mated. Note small gap between flanges.  

Page 19 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  Fi
gure 12  – Type 2 Mating check - Connectors fully mated. Note alignment of black markers 
on Plug & Receptacle. The thinner marker of the Plug should fall within the wider marker on 
the Receptacle Cone . 

Page 20 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  9.MANUALLY MATING/ DE -MATING ROV CONNECTORS
Thi
s section summarises the procedure that a diver would need to follow in order to mate/de- mate 
the ROV connectors manually (as opposed to mating/de- mating using an ROV).   
9.1 MATING PROCEDURE  
Prior to commencing the mating of the connector pair it is assumed that the Receptacle connector is 
mounted in its associated mounting plate, and that the Plug connector is in the near vicinity.  Grab 
bars or other interfaces should be present on the Receptacle mounting structure, in order to provide 
the diver with purchase and allow him to address the connector square- on, with the connector at 
chest height.  
1.Remove protective cap from Plug connector, or if Plug connector is mated to a
Parking/Dummy Receptacle remove as detailed in De- Mating procedure below.
2.If a Dummy Plug connector is mated to the Receptacle, remove using the de -mating
pr
ocedure detailed below.
3.Inspect Receptacle pins and shroud and ensure they are clean and free from debris, etc.  If
any debris is present remove using a water jet.
4.Show the Plug connector nose in to the shroud of Receptacle, and initially locate the key o n
t
he Plug nose into the slot of the Receptacle shroud, as shown below in Figure 13 .
Fi
gure 13  - Key on Plug locating in to slot in Receptacle . 

Page 21 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  5.The operator  should now get into a comfortable position, square on, ready to fully mate t he
c
onnectors.  In position, the connector should be at chest height, with grab bars or other
provided interfaces on the mounting structure being within easy reach.  Whilst using the gra b
bar
s or other mechanism to brace himself (i.e. tied to structure), the connector should be
mated by holding the ROV handle on the back of the Plug connector  (see Figure 14), and
us
e one smooth single stroke  to push the Plug connector along its axis until it butts  up
agai
nst the Receptacle. A force of 60kgf (588N) will be required to mate the connectors.
Ensure the stroke is level, and the operator  is able to complete the stroke in one smooth
consistent movement.  Also ensure that no bounce- back and failure to latch home has
occurred.  When mated, under no circumstances should the Plug connector be pulled usi ng
the 
ROV handle to check it is correctly mated; this will de- mate the connector.   [When the
plug connector end stops abut to the receptacle this activates a spring loaded latch, whic h
s
tops the connectors de -mating.  Pulling on the ROV Handle will de- activat e this latch and
hence will de- mate the connector.]
Figure 14  - Mate using ROV Handle  
(DO NOT pull this handle to check if mated ). 
6.To check if connectors are fully mated and Plug is correctly latched home, pull the Pl ug
c
onnector by holding the angled downward section of the plug body near to the hose
termination ( DO NOT use the ROV handle), as shown in Figure 15. If the connectors are
correctly latched and mated no axial movement in the Plug connector should be present.  As
a visual inspection, the shoulder on the Plug should butt up against the shroud of t he
R
eceptacle.  However, when relaxed there may be a small gap between the two (due to t he
s
prings in the Plug pushing against the Receptacle pins), as shown in Figure 16 .
Figure 15  - Connectors mated.  Pull angled downward  
section of body to check if Plug is correctly latched home. 

Page 22 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  Figure 16  - Connectors fully mated.  
Note small gap between flanges when fully mated.  
9.2 DE-MATING PROCEDURE  
P
rior to commencing the de-mating of the connector pair it is assumed that the Receptacle 
connector is mounted in its associated structure, and a Plug connector is mated to it.  
1.The operator  should brace himself using the grab bars or other provided interfaces,  and
ens
ure the connector is at chest height .
2.By gripping the ROV handle (as shown in Figure 14) , the connector should be de- mated fro m
t
he Receptacle using one smooth pulling movement along the axes of the connectors.  A
f
orce of 40kgf (392N) will be required to de -mate the connectors.
Note; the connector latch is automatically depressed by pulling the ROV handle.
3.When the Plug connector is fully separated from the receptacle connector, if appropriate it
can then be mated to the parking Receptacle, using the steps mentioned in the m ating
pr
ocedure above.  A dummy plug should also be mated to the remaining receptacle,  again
using the procedure above.

Page 23 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  10.INSTALLATION
10.1 CONNECTOR & PENETRATOR INSTALLATION  
It is recommended that  the installation of all SpecTRON Penetrators and Mounted Connectors is 
undertaken by Siemens Subsea site engineers  or trained personnel . 
10.2 HOSE  MANAGE MENT , ROUTING AND SUPPORT  
Hose should be routed in a manner to avoid bending beyond the MBR or kinking of the hose (refer 
to section 3.3  for Minimum Bend Radius of Hose) . The weight of hose in air will vary from that in 
water (refer to section 3.3  for weights in air and water) . Although in water the hose is practically 
buoyant (<1kg/m), topside the weights can be significant and efforts should be made to avoid 
application of excessive weight to avoid exceeding the MBR or causing kinking.  
Fi
gure 17 -MBR bring maintained (AquaTRON 200 Hose)  
Fi
gure 18 - MBR being maintained  (Gorilla 1.5” Hose)  

Page 24 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  The hose will have some natural resistance to bending/ kinking however application of snag force 
due to unsuitable routing (ignoring hose MBR) or application of force due to unsupported hose weight may cause damage to the conductors or terminations and efforts should be made to avoid 
this during all applications topside or in water  
Figure 19 -Incorrect routing (hose deformed over “sharp” edge - AquaTRON 200 Hose ) 
Fi
gure 20 -Incorrect routing (hose deformed over  “sharp” edge - Gorilla 1.5” Hose) 

Page 25 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  Particular efforts should be made to support the hose where it exits the rear of the connector, 
particularly if the hose is to be routed immediately in an orientation contradictory to the connector (e.g. immediate U shape routing – see Figures below)   
Fi
gure 21 -Immediate U shape routing  
Fi
gure 22 -Hose kink due to acute angle and weight application  
Siemens recommends the use of “formers” to avoid exceeding the MBR of the hose when exiting the 
connector or passing over acute angled surfaces (through or around structures) . 

Page 26 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  10.2.1   FORMERS  
Detailed below are some recommended shapes of former that may be utilised to aid routing of hose 
during SIT or structure routing (deployment). 
R
ecommended Former Design  
Fi
gure 23 - Plate Former  
Fi
gure 24 - ‘U’ Former  
Fi
gure 25 - ‘L’ Former  

Page 27 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  10.2.2  FIXED INSTALLATIONS  
Hose management should be considered in fixed installations, where more permanent solutions are 
acceptable. 
R
outing  
To aid routing of hose within MBR  and support free hanging hose greater than 5m,  formers can be 
produced to Siemens recommended design (See section 10.2.1) or to client specific design, and permanently fixed to the client’s structure via welding or bolt pattern.  
Fi
gure 26 -Permanent fixed ‘U’ former 
Clamping  
Siemens Subsea recommends  that rubber inlayed plastic clamps are used to secure the hose (such 
as a Stauff pipe clamps with the correct inside diameter, refer to section 3.3  for hose diamet ers).  
Careful consideration should be given to the placement of the first clamp on a compliant mount connector so as not to restrict the compliancy of the connector or impart stresses into the hose and 
cable. Where clamping is required on compliantly mounted connectors, i t is recommended that an 
‘S’ type arrangement or similar as shown in Figure 27 is utilised to take up the potential movement of 
the connector.   
Fi
gure 27  – Potential clamping of hose on compliant connector  
Compliantly 
mounted connector  Stauff clamp 
or similar  

Page 28 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  10.2.3   Dynamic Installations (SIT layouts)  
To aid the support of hose during SIT testing, formers can be produced to Siemens recommended 
design (See section 10.2.1) or to client specific design, and temporarily  fixed to the client’s 
structures via the use of tie wraps or clamps.  
Fi
gure 28  
The maximum recommended length of hose which can be unsupported is 5 meters, however the 
MBR of the hose must still be observed at the hose exit of a connector before allowing 5m of hose to 
hang freely.  
Fi
gure 29  
Figure 29 shows an example of a vertically mounted plug and receptacle with correct hose routing. 
The image shows how the hose may be self supported by the use of Stauff clamps mounted to the 
connector body. If a system similar to Figure 29 is to be employed then Siemens Technical must be 
consulted to assess the impact on the connectors and their terminations.  
Maximum free hanging hose 
without support is 5m  Tie wraps  

Page 29 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  During SIT the hose termination has significant weight (refer to section 3.3 for hose weights) and 
efforts should be made to avoid hanging of this weight from the connector termination itself. This could also be combated by providing a temporary elevated floor for SIT via the use equipment such 
as scaff olding, scissor lifts and ladders etc  or alternatively a fabricated stand with a former attached. 
See Figure 30 . 
Figure 30 - fabricated stand with former used for hose support  

Page 30 
Document Number: 0072  
Rev. 7 
CONTROLLED COPY  11.INFORMATION & NOTES / HEALTH & SAFETY FEEDBACK
DATE  DESCRIPTION  
