GC: How important is Waste Heat Recovery 
(WHR) in the cement sector’s race to net-zero? 
Tobias Panse (TP):  WHR is one key lever to reduce 
CO 2 emissions by utilising waste heat to produce 
electrical power, which can then be used for the 
internal power consumption of the cement plant. 
WHR systems are thus important in the race to 
reach net-zero by 2050, particularly as they are an 
established technology that can be used to achieve 
incremental emissions reductions in a cost-effective 
way. Using WHR, alongside other technologies 
like carbon capture and green hydrogen will be a 
powerful path to decarbonisation. While progress 
is certainly being made, more aggressive action is 
needed to meet intermediate emissions targets.GC: What is the typical amount of electrical 
energy that WHR systems can generate?
TP: Several factors determine the amount of steam 
and power that can be produced from the waste 
heat, including the waste gas temperature and com -
position, kiln design, kiln capacity and raw material 
moisture content. Typically, a WHR system can 
generate around one third of the entire cement 
factory power consumption. The installation of a 
WHR system will improve the CO 2 footprint sig -
nificantly, particularly when the electrical power 
comes from fossil fuels.
 
GC:  Which WHR technology offers the biggest 
potential to the sector?
GLOBAL CEMENT: WASTE HEAT RECOVERY
20 Global Cement  Magazine   May 2023Interview by Peter Edwards, Global Cement MagazineInterview by Peter Edwards, Global Cement Magazine
WASTE HEAT  
RECOVERY TRENDS
What can be done to 
encourage greater uptake of 
waste heat recovery in the 
global cement sector?TOBIAS PANSE 
SIEMENS ENERGY
GLOBAL CEMENT: WASTE HEAT RECOVERY
21 Global Cement  Magazine   May 2023Interview by Peter Edwards, Global Cement MagazineInterview by Peter Edwards, Global Cement Magazine
Tobias Panse joined Siemens AG  
in 2006 and, for 10 years, held various  
positions within Supply Management for 
Industrial and Utility Steam and Gas Turbines. 
After serving four years in Hungary as the 
Managing Director for the factory and country 
CEO, he now leads Siemens Energy’s worldwide 
service and new unit manufacturing for industrial 
steam turbines and generators and is driving the 
transformation of industry to help decarbonise 
the world for future generations. 
Table 1 Unit ORC WHR Steam WHR sCO 2 WHR
Performance @ Design Conditions
Type of Cooling ACC WCC ACC WCC ACC WCC
Heat recovered (PH & CC) MWth 25.7 25.6 28.8 29.0 28.6 28.6
Gross Power Output MWe 6.4 6.3 7.0 7.3 8.2 8.3
Efficiency (Gross) % 24.8 24.5 24.2 25.0 28.7 29.0
Auxiliary Power Consumption MWe 0.6 0.7 0.5 0.7 3.9 3.8
Net Power Output MWe 5.8 5.6 6.5 6.6 4.3 4.5
Efficiency (Net) % 22.5 21.8 22.4 22.7 15.0 15.7Figure 1: Annual net power production 
(MWh) based on 8000 operating hours.
Ambient Design Conditions  
Temperature = 20°C  
Pressure = 1018mBar  
Relative Humidity = 74%  
 
WHR Unit Preheater  
Design Conditions  
Mass flow = 73.4kg/s  
WHR inlet temp.  = 330°C  
WHR outlet temp. = 195°C
 
WHR Unit Clinker  
Cooler Design Conditions  
Mass flow = 70.4kg/s  
WHR inlet temp.  = 350°C  
WHR outlet temp. = Down to min
46,40044,800
ORCACCWCC52,00052,800
SRCACCWCC34,40036,000
sCO 2
ACCWCC
TP: This depends on the individual project and the 
site boundaries. Currently two main technologies 
are in competition: Steam Rankine Cycle (SRC), also 
known as Water-Steam-Cycle, and Organic Rankine 
Cycle (ORC). Most of the WHR systems installed are 
based on SRC but there is a growing number of ORC 
installations as well. At Siemens Energy we have sig -
nificant experience in applying the technology best 
fitting to the specific customer application.
GC: Which parts of the plant are most ripe for use 
of WHR?
TP: The most widely accepted WHR method in 
cement plants is to capture and combust flue and 
waste gas streams from the pre-heater tower and the 
clinker cooler.
GC:  How are new technologies changing the an -
swer to the previous three questions?
TP: In addition to the currently available tech -
nologies (ORC, SRC) alternative cycles that use 
super critical CO 2 (sCO 2) as a medium to further 
increase efficiency beyond the current limits have  
been investigated. 
Studies conducted alongside cement producers 
by Siemens Energy in recent years to determine the 
most efficient way of generating power from WHR 
show that, for the most part, a traditional steam cycle 
outperforms alternative technologies, i.e.: net elec -
trical output for both air-cooled and water-cooled 
applications.  (Table 1 & Figure 1).ACC = Air cooled condenser WCC = Water cooled condenser
GLOBAL CEMENT: WASTE HEAT RECOVERY
22 Global Cement  Magazine   May 2023Markets and drivers
GC: Which countries lead the way in WHR 
use for cement production?
TP: The biggest markets for WHR in cement pro -
duction we see currently are in China and India. 
In both countries government legislation and cost 
competitiveness have driven our customers to in -
stall WHR systems in their plants.
GC: Where are the most exciting regions or 
countries for WHR right now?
TP: We must take action now in Europe to meet our 
decarbonisation targets. Here, we see industry lead -
ers in cement communicating their roadmaps to 
fully decarbonise cement production. In addition, 
energy prices in the region have been increasing 
substantially. This drives the interest of our cus -
tomers to invest into WHR systems for new and 
existing assets.
GC: What can be done to help areas that are
further behind?
TP: Power and emissions pricing, as well as 
regulation, are major factors that can be used by 
governments in order to motivate the installation 
of environmentally friendly technologies such 
as WHR. While this is the situation in Europe, as 
mentioned above, the roll-out of WHR in the global 
cement sector is currently constricted by the lack 
of government initiatives and regulation. The main focus in the cement sector is in increasing pro -
duction capacity, which leaves limited investment 
available for improving process efficiency. 'Green' 
cement is technically possible and needs to become 
economically attractive. China and India prove this 
is possible.
GC: What can be done to overcome 
these limitations?
TP: Increasing social awareness of 'green cement'  
products amongst the general public would create 
additional value for the cement sector to imple -
ment environmentally-friendly technologies such 
as WHR.
GC: What are producers like Siemens Energy 
doing to help the adoption of WHR in high-
intensity industries like cement?
TP: We are ready, but we can't do this alone. As 
a solution and technology provider, we prefer to 
co-create the optimum solutions together with our 
customers. We are continuously investing in future-
oriented technologies and portfolio elements to 
provide the highest value for our customers and the 
environment. 
GC: Tobias Panse, thank you for your time today.
TP: Y ou are very welcome indeed!
A cement plant on the banks of the Yangtze River in China, one of 
the countries with the largest uptakes of WHR units in the world.