siemens-energy.com/prefabPrefabricated 
power solutions
Plug and play E-house, skids and mobile   
substations up to 420 kV
Plug and play solutions for 
flexible grid connection
All over the world, grid operators, electrical 
power producers and energy intensive 
industries work to ensure reliable power 
supplies for their customers or processes. 
Power demand has to be met at short notice 
without disruption - despite tight construc -
tion timeframes and potential eventualities 
such as natural disasters or operational 
restrictions. 
Siemens Energy prefabricated power  
solutions ensure a safe and reliable grid 
connection to fit the most demanding 
environments anywhere, anytime. The 
Siemens Energy prefabricated power solu -
tions consists of a “plug and play” high- and 
medium-voltage substation built as fully mobile substation on trailer, on skid or 
inside a shelter as “HV E-house”. 
The modules contain all the necessary 
components for a complete substation: 
power transformer, AIS or GIS switchgear, 
MV/HV cable drums, protection, monitoring 
and control systems as well as AC and DC 
auxiliary power supplies. 
Modules are fully factory-tested before 
dispatch and simply need to be connected 
to each other on site. Siemens Energy 
prefabricated power solutions ensure 
maximum flexibility of design and utiliza -
tion combined with excellent reliability and 
a high return on investment.
Prefabricated power solutions
2
The benefits are:
• Earlier and more reliable energization date
• Full assembly and pre commissioning prior to shipment
• Reduced on-site work: minimum civil works, plug and play installation and energization
• Easy mobilization and relocation
• Resistance to weather and harsh environments
Prefabricated power solutions 
 3

A range of tailor-made 
prefabricated solutions
Siemens Energy prefabricated power solutions come 
fully preconfigured as “plug and play” substations to be  
connected to the grid via overhead or isolated cables. 
They are available in several configurations to provide 
the upmost flexibility.
Trailer and skid-mounted  
substations
Trailer or skid-mounted power solution are 
modular substations designed to provide 
maximum flexibility during mobilization 
and relocation. The substation comprises 
several compact modules to be intercon -
nected on site: power transformer, HV/MV 
switchgears, HV/MV cables, control, 
telecom, protection, monitoring and  
auxiliary power systems.
The trailer external dimensions are sized to 
comply with local road transportation 
restrictions. Its base-frame is designed to 
protect switchgear from structural 
constraints despite transportation on rough 
road surfaces.
HV E-house substations
E-houses are prefabricated buildings 
designed to host switchgear, secondary and 
auxiliary systems in one single structure. 
These substations can comprise several 
switchgear bays forming various configura -
tions such as single/double busbar rings or 
one and half breaker.
The E-house generally comes as a single lift 
unit pre-wired and factory-tested. 
Depending on voltage level and transpor- 
tation restrictions, the E-house can be fitted 
with a built-in overhead crane or removable 
roof to simplify maintenance work.
Skid-mounted solution GIS 420 kVMobile substation GIS 245 kV
E-House GIS 145 kV H configurationPrefabricated power solutions 
 5

Plug and play solution for a 
high return on investment
By reducing the interface management and site works to a mini -
mum, prefabricated power solutions provide significant cost and 
time savings along with a low risk profile.
Savings on grid maintenance and 
upgrading works
With a prefabricated power solution as a temporary 
alternative grid connection, the upgrading or rehabil -
itation work on existing substations can be signifi -
cantly faster and work process simplified.
Black-out impact limitations
A mobile substation can act as stand-by emergency 
grid restoration solution. It can be mobilized and set 
up within a couple of hours in the event of a grid 
failure, hence reducing the technical and financial 
impact of power outage.
Social acceptance
Customizable appearance and limited amount of 
on-site works maximize the social acceptability of 
prefabricated power solution substations. Further -
more, the relocatable nature of the substation also 
constributes to the simplication of the construction 
permit process.Streamline project execution
With a fully comprehensive set of components, 
pre-designed interfaces and limited on-site works, 
prefabricated power solution substations simplify 
procurement tasks and substantially reduce interface 
management risks.
Land acquisition savings
Thanks to their reduced footprint and flexible 
modular arrangement concept, prefabricated power 
solution substations require less space both for 
construction and operation.
Earlier energization
Prefabricated power solution substations ensure 
efficient and faster grid connection, hence enabling 
earlier energization and commercial operation of the 
connected plant.
HV GIS conventional substation
HV PPS substationOff site 
work
On site 
work
Off site 
work
On site 
work
Design Manufacturing Transport Civil work Installation Test & Comm.Later site work startUp to 30% time savingTime schedule optimization for a fast track substation construction projectPrefabricated power solutions 

Grid connection wherever 
and whenever required
The flexibility and robustness of prefabricated power solutions are 
key benefits to several application fields covering power generation,  
grid development and energy intensive industries.
Emergency alternative grid connection
The mobile design of the prefabricated power solution 
helps grid operators to restore power after a grid failure or 
to avoid disruption during extension or rehabilitation 
works. Prefabricated power solutions can easily be 
extended through the addition of further modules and 
relocated whenever required.
Remote / hostile environments
Mining and Oil & Gas works are often executed in isolated 
areas, thus generating high labor costs. This factor incites 
the reduction of on-site works to the strict minimum. 
The Siemens Energy “plug and play” solutions are 100% 
factory-tested in their final configuration. Their mobiliza -
tion on site is optimized and minimum labor is required for 
final installation. Almost no civil works are required. The 
prefabricated power solution can also be supplied with 
shelter providing protection against extreme weather 
conditions and harsh environment.Fast track projects
The grid connection of power critical infrastructures such as 
electrical generation or energy intensive industries is often 
located on the critical path of the project. With little expo -
sure to site work contingencies, the Siemens Energy prefab -
ricated power solution allows faster grid connection.
Environmental friendliness
Environmental friendliness is a central concern when power 
infrastructures are required in the vicinity of natural, urban 
or business areas. The Siemens Energy prefabricated power 
solution can be located in shelters or prefabricated build -
ings and the external appearance can be customized to 
maximize visual integration. Furthermore, they can easily 
be dismantled to restore the site to its original conditions if 
required. Finally, by providing a flexible temporary power 
supply solution from HV grid rather than from diesel 
gensets, prefabricated power solution can contribute to 
reduce CO2 emissions.
Tested and proven performance
Oil & Gas and mining industry
Canada: 
The 7 GIS E-houses 72.5 and 245 kV enable grid  
connec tion with minimum on-site works. The substations 
are in operation for bituminous sand extraction sites and  
potash mining industry. Both located in a very cold 
climate area.
 New Caledonia: 
An 18 bay GIS 72.5 kV substation was shipped as a single 
lift prefabricated unit to meet the requirements of a 
copper mine for minimum site work due to lack of   
local resources.Power generation
Algeria:  
The 420 kV mobile substation ensures fast track   
grid connection of a power plant in Biskra.
Grid operators
Algeria:  
The 220 / 60 kV-30 kV and 60/10 kV semi trailer type 
mobile substation provides the customer with a  
backup infrastructure to reinforce the grid in this area.
Belgium:  
5 bay 110 kV GIS substations in 40’ containers fitted   
for isolated HV cable connection are used to bypass 
existing substations during refurbishment works in   
an urban environment.Prefabricated power solutions 
 9
Typical configurations for 
prefabricated power solutions
Prefabricated power solutions cover a large range of customer needs 
and are designed accordingly. They can be single or multiple bays, 
from 11 kV to 420 kV, with or without transformer, trailer mounted or 
E-House.
HV E-house: 123 kV emergency 
restoration system
This E-house substation is used in urban 
areas in the event of outages or mainte -
nance works (ie. extension and moder- 
nization). The compact GIS enables the  
installation of bays and local control  
cabinets in a shelter protected from the 
environment. Thanks to its built-in jacking 
system, it can be unloaded without the 
need of a crane.
Example of a single line diagramPrefabricated power solutions
10
Mobile substation: 380/132-11 kV 
500 MVA
This mobile substation is used for bypassing 
existing substations in case of emergency 
or for a fast-track grid connection of a new 
plant. This modular solution enables to 
interconnect the main 380 kV grid with 
three other grid voltage levels (132, 115 and 
110 kV).Thanks to rotative bushings and 
prefabricated interface cables, their  
installation is performed within less than 
one week.
Example of a single line diagramPrefabricated power solutions 
 11
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transmission  
Freyeslebenstraße 1  
91058 Erlangen      
Germany
For the U.S. published by     
Siemens Energy, Inc      
Transmission      
4601 Six Forks Road      
Raleigh, NC 27609      
USA
For more information, please visit our website:   
siemens-energy.com/prefab      
or contact us: prefab@siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2021                 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Prefabricated power solutions 