HVDC PLUS® –    
the decisive 
step ahead
Stabilized power flows improve transmission       
grid performance
siemens-energy.com/hvdc
An ever-increasing demand for energy, a steadily growing 
share of intermittent renewable  resources  and a decrease in 
conventional  power generation are the challenges facing 
today’s  power markets. An unparalleled challenge:
keeping your grid performing predictably in times of                        
unpredictable generationHVDC PLUS | Brochure
2
Better grid performance
Grid operators are faced with ever-in -
creasing requirements when it comes to 
grid stability, power quality, and reliability. 
In times of booming renewable power 
generation and decreasing conventional 
power generation, they need efficient, 
innovative solutions to keep the transmis -
sion system stable and reliable, and to 
maintain the safety and security of the 
supply at all times.
Managed grid complexity
With a multitude of intermittent power 
generators replacing a small number of 
highly predictable conventional power 
sources, grid operation has become very 
complex. It not only involves dealing with 
thousands of individual players while stabi -
lizing the AC grid, it also means providing 
transmission capacity – wherever and 
whenever it is needed.                                 
    
Improved grid access
Another challenge is providing grid access, 
either for remote renewable power genera -
tors such as offshore wind farms or for 
remote load centers like oil rigs. In all cases, 
transmission capacity is crucial for success, 
which means providing maximum avail-
ability, reliability, and flexibility.
Lowest CAPEX and OPEX
At the same time, customers need competi -
tive solutions over the entire lifecycle. An 
optimal balance between functionality and 
performance on the one hand and invest -
ment as well as operational costs on the 
other hand is imperative. 
     Flexibility and power quality
In today’s power grids, flexibility and power 
quality are in high demand. HVDC PLUS® can 
provide optimum solutions for your specific 
transmission tasks. This requires: 
• Efficient use of HVDC PLUS® technology 
with project-specific adaptions, based on 
the Siemens Energy HVDC PLUS Reference 
Designs.
• An HVDC PLUS® point-to-point trans -
mission system, which can optionally 
expand into a multi-terminal system with 
three or more converter stations.
Maintaining the highest          
standards
An HVDC PLUS® solution that improves your        
existing grid infrastructure needs to address 
the following aspects:  
• Maximum availability
• Stabilization of the AC network
• Future-oriented, flexible solutions  
as a response to varying power market 
requirements
• Ability to provide grid access of renewable 
energy sources
• Power exchange between interconnected 
systems and between asynchronous grids
• Economic, adaptable, and compact 
solutions
• Maintenance-friendly, safe, and reliable 
design with  comprehensive lifetime 
services
HVDC PLUS | Brochure
 3
Versatility at your service
As an innovation leader, Siemens Energy 
has developed an advanced, universally 
applicable solution for power transmission 
with its voltage-sourced converter (VSC) 
technology HVDC PLUS®. The innovative 
solution offers a controlled power supply 
in either direction and is ideal as a “firewall” 
against disturbances developing in highly 
loaded AC grids. HVDC PLUS® technology is 
based on the trendsetting modular multi -
level converters (MMC) and offers 
numerous technical and economical     
benefits.Economical and environmental 
benefits
Environmental constraints play an 
important role in the development of power 
systems. HVDC PLUS® technology gives top 
priority to both, energy and resource effi -
ciency. For example, the MMCs operate 
with low switching frequencies, which 
reduces losses. Due to generation of nearly 
ideal sinusoidal waveforms on the AC side 
 typically the need for harmonic filtering 
is eliminated resulting also in less time and 
costs for planning, engineering, construc -
tion, and commissioning. And their compact 
design means lower space requirements 
and thus reduced property costs.
HVDC PLUS®: 
the best technology for  sustainable success
HVDC PLUS | Brochure
4
Siemens Energy has been a pioneer of HVDC PLUS®        
technology right from start and continuously driving  
technology further. HVDC PLUS® is our trend-setting        
development for ensuring economical power transmission 
and providing controlled power supply to the connected       
networks.
Operational 
 advantages
• A very high level of system 
reliability, and redundancy 
for all key components of the 
converter control.
• Standard control and 
protection system; hardware 
and software in hot standby.
• Minimized maintenance and 
service requirements.
• Compact station design with 
typically no harmonic filters.
• Black-start capability to 
improve speed of recovery 
of interconnected grids.Prize-winning health and  
safety compliance
We have a clearly defined goal for all our 
HVDC PLUS® transmission projects: apply the 
highest possible safety standard in order 
to reduce the number of incidents to zero. 
Our HVDC PLUS® systems are designed using 
a risk-based engineering approach to assure 
a risk-free and safe design, a “safety-first” 
construction process, and the safe opera -
tion of the systems. All projects are 
executed with the highest health and safety 
awareness on the part of our management, 
 employees, and partners. Our team on the 
NEMO Link project awarded the „Sword of 
Honor“ of the British Safety Council and the 
ElecLink project team achieved five stars in 
the British Safety Council’s Five Star Occupa -
tional Health and Safety Audit.The compact footprint can be further 
 reduced, e.g. using gas-insulated DC 
compact switchgear, available up to           
+/- 500 kV. Compared with air insulation, 
the gas-insulated solution  reduces space 
requirements for the DC switchyard by       
up to 90 percent.
Stabilization of AC network
HVDC PLUS® is completely appropriate for 
steady state and dynamic AC voltage 
control, independently on each station. Its 
typical advantages are apparent when 
weak AC networks are  being  connected: 
• Low dependency on short-circuit  
power, voltage, and frequency  
of the AC networks.
• Reactive power can be generated or 
consumed independent of active power 
transmission.
• During AC transmission network resto -
ration (for example, after a blackout), 
HVDC PLUS® can provide system recovery 
ancillary service (SRAS).HVDC PLUS | Brochure
 5
HVDC PLUS®: 
the solution for flexible DC power transmission systems 
several 100 km
HVDC PLUS® is a technological breakthrough for 
highly  efficient power transmission. Available appli -
cations thus  include long-distance transmission via 
overhead lines and  cables as well as network inter -
connectors and grid  access solutions.
AC ACLong-distance
System A System B DC Line DC CircuitAC ACBack-to-back
System A System BHVDC PLUS® long-distance   
transmission
For covering long distances, HVDC PLUS® 
power transmission is often the most effi -
cient and economic solution. In such cases 
HVDC PLUS® is the preferred solution where 
its superior features are benefical for the 
overall project. A variety of media can be 
used for power transmission: cables, or 
even existing overhead lines. There are 
numerous technical solutions that are best 
discussed with our experts to find the most 
appropriate configuration for your indi -
vidual needs.HVDC PLUS® interconnectors
HVDC PLUS® interconnectors connect 
independent national and/or regional  
grids regardless of their frequency. By 
converting the AC power into DC and from 
DC back to AC, the superior features of our 
HVDC PLUS® converters facilitate stabili- 
zation and improvement of grid operation. 
Grid code requirements are met. One 
example is a  back-to-back interconnector 
where both converters are at the same 
location.HVDC PLUS | Brochure
6
123
4
5
671Converter transformers
2Cooling
3AC switchyard
4Control and protection
5DC compact switchgear
6DC yard
7Converter hall
Grid Access
Siemens Energy offers perfect solutions for 
HVDC PLUS® offshore applications. HVDC 
PLUS® is the ideal space-saving solution to 
provide grid access to remote offshore wind 
farms with its dynamic fast control. This 
makes regenerative energy sources fit for 
the grid, and to connect them according to 
the conditions of each particular grid code 
by providing the required voltage quality at 
the grid coupling point.
Our DC Compact Switchgear offers 
 additional space-savings on the platform.
HVDC PLUS® provides also power for 
 connecting remote loads:
• from shore to offshore oil and gas  
platforms and
• for minesMulti-terminal connections  
and future DC grids
In addition to the most commonly applied 
point-to-point connections, HVDC PLUS® 
facilitate expansion to multi-terminal 
systems and further develop to DC grids in 
the future to back up existing AC grids.
Due to its operation principle to keep the 
DC Voltage constant in one polarity and 
to change direction of power transfer by 
reversing the current, HVDC PLUS® is ideally 
suitable for multi-terminal applications.
This enables to develop HVDC PLUS® trans -
misison solutions stagewise and provides 
high flexibility to expand existing schemes 
in case of future changes in power grids or 
load flow scenarios.HVDC PLUS | Brochure
 7
The highly efficient HVDC PLUS® half-bridge 
topology is used for most HVDC PLUS® 
applications today. It has proven its excel -
lent reliability in practice and is particularly 
suited for offshore applications.
This technology also features our latest 
innovation, the new half-bridge module 
based on cutting-edge IGBT tech nology 
with a DC current capability of more than 
2 kA, which fits to the new development 
in XLPE cable technology. Its high power 
density results from its 6.5 kV voltage class 
and leads to reduced converter hall sizes.  
By a smaller number of submodule levels, 
losses are lowered even more.Half-bridge type MMC:
The power capacitor can be 
connected in one polarity 
to the terminalsUdc
UacUac
Udc
0
“on” “off”Half-bridge converter topology  
for utmost reliability
The next generation of power 
modules for more than 2 kAHVDC PLUS | Brochure
8
For HVDC PLUS® overhead line configura -
tions, MMC in full-bridge topology is 
the right choice, as this allows for selective 
clearing of DC line faults. The graph shows 
a typical HVDC PLUS® full-bridge topology 
design.
The power capacitors can be connected to 
the terminals at either polarity. This means 
that the DC voltage is independent of the 
AC voltage and can be controlled to zero 
or even be entirely reversed to maintain 
current control on the AC and DC sides and 
also under short-circuit conditions. The DC 
voltage can also be controlled over a wide 
range, including both polarities. Siemens 
Energy HVDC PLUS® technology is based on 
strategies proven in a wide range of indus -
trial applications of VSC technology, and 
offers the following advantages:• Immediate initiation of DC fault clearing 
by reversing the DC line voltage polarity 
for a short period of time in order to 
extinguish and de-ionize the electric arc 
followed by the possibility of multiple 
restart attempts
• Flexibly controllable DC voltage provides 
a voltage ramp-up characteristic, which 
takes into consideration project-specific 
AC conditions
• Flexible operation at a reduced voltage 
as a precautionary measure in adverse 
weather conditions and increased air 
pollution
• Minimized fault clearance time for 
 multi-terminal systems, when combined 
with selective fault detectionFull-bridge type MMC:
The power capacitor can be 
connected in either polarity  
to the terminalsUdcUacUac
Udc
–Udc0Full-bridge technology  
for optimized power transmissionHVDC PLUS | Brochure
 9
Siemens Energy is not only the inventor 
of HVDC PLUS®, we are also the most    
experienced partner on the market       
today. And it shows – not just in our 
leading technology but also in compre -
hensive lifecycle support and individual 
services tailored to your needs.
Turnkey solutions –  
the key to successful projects 
If you are planning an HVDC PLUS® connec -
tion, you can rely on our unique expertise. 
This includes our continuous work to 
further advance the technology. As a result, 
we were the first to offer HVDC PLUS® 
in MMC technology, the first supplier of 
2 x 1,000 MW with VSC tech nology, and the 
first to upgrade an existing HVDC PLUS® 
with black-start capa bility. This means that 
we can assume responsibility for the entire 
lifecycle of your project, from the first 
analysis through creation of an optimized 
solution to commissioning – including 
after-sales services from operation to the 
reliable supply of spares and more.                              
     
     Our services span the entire     
lifecycle
As your partner, Siemens Energy offers the 
whole spectrum of HVDC PLUS® after-sales 
services to enable you to get the most out 
of your HVDC PLUS® assets. Our services 
range from  standard preventive mainte -
nance  services to cyber security and asset 
 management consulting. Retrofit and 
refurbishment services services assist you in 
extending the lifetime of your HVDC PLUS® 
assets.HVDC PLUS | Brochure
10
Technical clarifications
Overall project management
Engineering and design
Site facilities  
and civil works
Production
Procurement
Factory testingTransportOn-site installation  
and commissioningTrainingAfter-sales servicesFinancing support 
and consultingOptimized support from  
your experienced partner
HVDC PLUS® after-sales services
Siemens Energy is an established service 
provider enabling you to obtain top per- 
formance and availability from your HVDC 
PLUS® system. This includes minimizing 
unplanned downtime through preventive 
and predictive maintenance. We provide a 
full range of valuable and reliable services.
To increase transparency of your assets:
• On-site condition  assessments  
(“health checks”)
• Condition monitoring and diagnostics
• Remote services
• Asset management and advisory services
To ensure high asset availability:
• Preventive maintenance
• Field service and repair
• Spare parts
• 24/7 expert hotline and technical support
• Obsolescence managementTo optimize asset performance:
• Refurbishment
• Upgrade and uprate
To support you in operation                   
management:
• Asset operation
• Spare parts management
• Customer qualification and training
• Cyber security servicesHVDC PLUS | Brochure
 11
First HVDC PLUS® with modular 
multilevel  converter (MMC)  
technology –
Trans Bay Cable
World’s first HVDC PLUS® with  
full-bridge converter – 
ULTRANET –            
A-NordBorWin3 is the most recent project out of already 5 installed DC 
offshore grid connections. Operating since August 2019 and 
designed with float-over platform installation concept – 
BorWin3
Germany
Czech 
Republic
FranceBelgiumNetherlands
Meerbusch
PhilippsburgPetkumHVDC PLUS | Brochure
12
Customer: TenneT
Location: Emden, Germany
Type of plant: HVDC PLUS® half-bridge topology, 
On-/Offshore cable, 160 km
Power rating: 900 MW
Voltage levels: ± 320 kV DC,  
380/155 kV AC, 50 HzOperational highlights:
Compact DC solution for low-loss offshore-onshore power 
transmission and grid connection according to grid code. 
While grid fluctuations must always be taken into account 
in wind-based power generation, grid stability and reli -
ability are significantly enhanced thanks to the Siemens 
Energy HVDC PLUS® technology.
Customer: Amprion GmbH and  
TransnetBW GmbH
Location: Philippsburg – Meerbusch –         
Petkum, Germany
Type of plant: HVDC PLUS® converters in fullbridge 
topology connected via 340 km 
overhead line and 300 km DC cable
Power rating: 2,000 MW, bipolar
Voltage levels: ± 380 kV DC,  
400 kV AC, 50 HzOperational highlights:
With its stabilizing functions, high availability for overhead 
line transmission, black-start capability, and full-bridge 
topology to clear faults in the DC sections quickly and 
flexibly, the bipolar ULTRANET HVDC PLUS® system will 
attain high reliability. ULTRANET will be the first link with 
DC lines placed on existing AC pylons, which will be 
provided by Amprion GmbH and TransnetBW GmbH.
With the DC cable extension A-Nord the system will be 
Germany’s first HVDC Multi-Terminal system.Customer: Trans Bay Cable, LLC
Location: Pittsburg (California) –  
San Francisco (California), USA
Type of plant: HVDC PLUS® in half-bridge topology 
connected via an 86 km submarine 
cable
Power rating: 400 MW, symmetrical monopole
Voltage levels: ± 200 kV DC,  
230 kV/115 kV AC, 60 HzOperational highlights:
HVDC PLUS® enhances the performance of the transmission 
grid, improves reliability, and reduces maintenance costs. 
HVDC PLUS® is the preferred solution in space-constrained 
urban environments like San Francisco. After successful 
commissioning in November 2010, the Trans Bay Cable 
Project met the California Inde pendent System Operator’s 
(ISO) planning and reliability standards. The system was 
upgraded to black-start capa bility in 2016. HVDC PLUS | Brochure
 13
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transmission  
Freyeslebenstraße 1  
91058 Erlangen       
Germany
For the U.S. published by      
Siemens Energy, Inc       
Transmission       
4601 Six Forks Road       
Raleigh, NC 27609       
USA
For more information, please visit our website:    
siemens-energy.com/hvdc      
or contact us: hvdc@siemens-energy.comA
rticle No. PTSO-T10004-00-76DE 
© Siemens Energy, 2022
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.