siemens-energy.com/generatorsSGen-100A-2P 
air-cooled generator 
series
For gas and steam power applications from 25-370 MVA
1 Stator end winding system  
Provides maximum rigidity and flexibility  
for cyclic thermal expansion 5 Enhanced ventilation scheme  
Enhanced cooling airflow through patented  
ramped sub-slot design for uniform cooling 
distribution2 Rotor and winding design  
Ensures low sensitivity to peaking  
operation and thermal cycling6 Coolers  
Flexible based on operational needs3 Bearings  
Service-friendly sleeve bearings
7 Access points  
Multiple locations for easy maintenance 4 Vibration limits  
Low shaft vibration and core vibrationThe SGen-100A-2P is part of the Siemens Energy Generator (SGen™) 
product line with enhanced performance. The air-cooled generators are 
developed by using state-of-the-art methods for flawless quality and 
precision. Our modular ‘building block’ approach allows Siemens Energy 
generators to share many features and components across the portfolio. 
This enables us to supply our customers with generators specially tailored 
to their requirements, making them reliable, efficient and easy-to-maintain.
42
3
7615
SGen-100A-2P
2
Technical specifications SGen-100A-2P 
FrequencyApparent  
power EfficiencyTerminal  
voltage 
SGen5-100A-2P 50 Hz 25-370 MVA up to 98.9% 6.0 - 20 kV 
SGen6-100A-2P 60 Hz 25-370 MVA up to 98.9% 6.0 - 20 kV 
Key
benefitsHigh  
efficiency
High  
serviceability
Long  
service lifeLow noise  
emissions
Low installation 
and commission 
costs
SGen-100A-2P
3
Applications
Gas & steam power generation
• generators fit to most steam and gas turbines on the 
market for maximum flexibility
• with hydrogen powered turbines, a complete decarbon-
ization of the power generation can be achieved  
Synchronous Condenser
• solution for transmission grid stabilization with a high 
amount of power infeed from renewable sources
• influence on the stability of transmission networks, for 
example: 
 –addition of renewables based power generation to  
the energy mix
 –the phase-out of power plantsInstallation, operation &  
maintenance
Installation
• low installation costs
• short installation time
• footprint requires minimal space  
Operation
• special explosion protection solution for operational 
safety
• stator end winding system allows for thermal expansion 
and contraction during operation
• rotor design ensures low sensitivity to peaking operation  
Easy maintenance
• easy access to all relevant generator components for 
maintenance
• maintenance-free stator core
SGen-100A-2P
4
Published by and copyright © 2024
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Freyeslebenstrasse 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany  
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA 
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/generators  
Email: sales.generator.energy@siemens-energy.com
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.