DIGUREG 2
Omnivise Electrical Solutions 
Digital voltage regulator
www.siemens -energy.com
Digital voltage regulator ( DIGUREG 2 )
is a compact voltage regulator, planned and tested in accordance with relevant standards*)of IEEE 421 .5and has an integrated power module. 
It is intended for synchronous machines with exciter sets and rotating diodes. DIGUREG is suitable for use in steam turbine, gasturbine and 
hydroelectric power plants. 
Advantages at a glance
▪Extremely flexible power 
infeed: excitation power 
from pilot exciter, auxiliary 
winding in the machine's 
stator, via exciter transformer 
or battery
▪Parallel infeed from two 
sources possible to maintain 
excitation if one infeed fails
▪Compact structure
▪Simple parameterization
▪Suitable for new power 
plants and for modernizing 
existing excitation machines
▪Touch -safe enclosure
▪All required functions 
included as standard
▪planned and tested in 
accordance with relevant 
standards*) of IEEE 421.5
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Unrestrictedmax. continuous  current : 34 A
max. continuous  current  : 16 AFunctions
The DIGUREG includes the following operating 
modes:
•Automatic  voltage  regulator  AC7B*)
•Manual controller  (excitation  current  
controller )
•Reactive  power controller  on the generator*)
•Power factor  regulation  on the generator*)
•Reactive  power controller  at the net 
coupling  point  
•Power factor  regulation  at the net coupling  
point  
The following limiting controllers are 
implemented:
•Overexcitation  limiter*)
•Underexcitation  limiter*)
•Ceiling  current  limiter*)
•Stator current  limiter*)
•V/f limiter*)
Further functions :
•Diode failure  monitoring
•Power System Stabilizer  PSS2B*)
•SynchronizationTechnical Data
Maximum output  current :
16/34 A (at max. 45 °C / 1000 m above  sea level )
Maximum output  voltage :
300 V DC
Power infeed :
100 to 230 V DC/AC 1/3 -phase     0…650 Hz
Electronics supply:
24 V DC
Power requirement for electronics supply :
25 W plus output  load

Functional overview
Controller
Signals are exchanged with the control system either via a 
PROFIBUS DP interface or a PROFINET interface. Control 
signals, operational and failure indications, operational values 
and where applicable, reference values are also transferred.
However, simple hardware coupling is also possible via a 
24 V DC coupling level on the input side or isolated contacts on 
the output side and 0(4) to 20 mA analog values.
Parameterization
The DIGUREG tool is a parameterization program with a 
graphical user interface and is easy to operate by any user 
experienced with such programs. The simple parameterization 
enables experienced operators to carry out commissioning 
without any problems, even without detailed knowledge of 
the DIGUREG excitation system.
The parameters to be modified are selected via a menu tree 
and can be modified directly. This can be carried out online, 
i.e.with a connection to the excitation device and immediate 
parameter modification, as well as offline for changing the 
parameter file.
Parameterization that has been created offline can simply be 
saved in the excitation device and activated. In addition, the 
current parameterization can be exported from the excitation 
device and saved in a file.
An operating menu of the DIGUREG tool enables on -site oper -
ation via the PC during commissioning. All control commands 
can be specified here, and the status messages are displayed. 
This enables the voltage regulator to be operated without the 
need for communication between commissioning personnel 
and maintenance personnel, which can be difficult because of 
the distance involved and the often noisy environment.
Functional  overview  of the DIGUREGAll control commands can be specified in the operating menu of the DIGUREG toolThe Trace add -on visualizes recorded data.
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Gas Services
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Gas Services 
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
For more information, please contact
Email: electrical -solutions@siemens -energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. 
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose 
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.
Trace
Trace is an add -on to the parameterization program that 
enables recorded data to be visualized. In addition, the data 
readout from the device can also be saved and reopened at a 
later time . 
The data can also be transferred to word -processing programs
or spreadsheet applications. 