Test ServicesSiemens Energy
For best viewing experience, please open this interactive PDF 
in the Acrobat PDF Viewer 10.0 or higher.
Visit our website:                
What we offer
Our testing expertise is what we offer. 50 years of experience in 7 testing 
centers worldwide. New technologies are quickly and effectively validated 
at our own test centers – like at the Clean Energy Center in Ludwigsfelde 
near Berlin (Germany) and the in-house full scale engine test facility of the 
Berlin Gas Turbine Plant. Technical innovations in design and 
development, process engineering, materials and manufacturing as well 
as assembly processes collectively support Siemens Energy in constantly 
transforming new customer and environmental requirements into reality. 
As an integral part of the development process testing & validation was 
successfully done in the field of combustion with ultralow NOx premixed 
combustion system; improvements in Thermal Barrier Coating (TBC) tech-
nology as well as innovative manufacturing technologies like Selective 
Laser Melting (SLM) to mention only a few.   
Where we are
Our global testing footprint consists of 8 major testing centers. Our team 
of specialists also conducts all of the sophisticated measurement tasks 
and component tests at power plants located around the world. 
Our experts are on call around the clock and ready to take prompt action. 
On site at a customer’s plant our experts perform a diverse range of mea-surement tasks – from installation of instrumentation equipment on the 
turbine to data acquisition and evaluation of the results. We can record 
the operating data at power plants worldwide in real time via remote data 
transmission, and if necessary, provide support to the operator in the form 
of targeted corrective actions.

Berlin Test Center (BTC)
The Berlin Test Center has been an integral part of the development of 
gas turbines by Siemens Energy for more than 30 years. 
The center owes its high degree of testing flexibility to the 6-disc hydrau-
lic dynamometer, the world’s largest device of its kind. The turbine output in the Berlin Test Center is converted into heat rather than electrical pow -
er allowing tests to be run at any time, independent of the power supply 
network. Our extensive know-how and year-long experience with instru-
mentation on sophisticated parts enable for effective testing. Tests can be 
run on 50, 60, and 90 Hz turbines at, above, or below rated speed. 
Clean Energy Center (CEC)
In 2015, we started operations our state-of-the-art high-pressure test fa-
cility for gas turbine combustion and components in Ludwigsfelde, near 
Berlin.
The Clean Energy Center can test combustion and turbine flows up to 100 
MWth. We provide main air, cooling water and cooling air systems, liquid 
and gaseous fuel and online fuel mixing for high fuel flexibility. The CEC houses three fully equipped, isolated test cells for combustion 
system testing: two test cells for the larger test rigs (e.g., large gas 
turbine burners) and one test cell for the smaller test rigs (e.g., industrial 
gas turbine burners). due to this setup the Clean Energy Center accurately 
duplicate almost any customer specifications, testing under realistic high 
pressure conditions, simulating a specific ambient temperature or crea-
ting the precise fuel mixture that will later be applied in the product 
application. 
All relevant key parameters such as output, efficiency, emissions, and 
flame stability are monitored, measured and analyzed. 
The information given in this document contains only general descriptions of potential features, 
capabilities and benefits which may or may not apply in each case, which are not warranted or 
guaranteed, or binding, and are subject to change.  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © 2021 Siemens EnergyPublished by 
Siemens Energy
Test Services
Test Coordination and Innovation
Huttenstr. 12
10553 Berlin, Germany 
 
For more information, please visit our website:
www.siemens-energy.com 