UPFC PLUS
Enhancing transmission grid stability 
and reliability through  dynamic load flow control
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Content
1. Abstract  .................................................................................................................................................................... 3
Enhancing transmission grid stability and reliability through dynamic load flow control
2. Modern challenges for a legacy power grid  ............................................................................................................. 3
There are three major trends that are currently challenging the transmission system and will continue to do so in 
the future. This trio of developments in the form of decarbonisation, decentralisation and deregulation are well 
known and understood but they still present Transmission System Operators (TSOs) with numerous problems.
3. Overcoming network constraints  ............................................................................................................................. 4
Building new power lines is difficult, no-one wants new overhead cables, and HVDC lines are costly. The approval 
process for high-voltage power lines takes around ten years and is fraught with challenges. Once recent example 
came in Germany where TSO, 50Hertz, had a vital 115km, 300kv transmission line from Uckermark to Berlin 
delayed by six years because of nature conservation concerns. There are other options available to TSOs such as 
securing power from neighbouring regions through interconnections or redispatch, whereby power is purchased 
from conventional or peak power plants. This option is expensive with the cost per kw/hr climbing by 30 per cent 
since 2017 and likely to continue increasing in the near future.
4. Calculating grid capacity (n-1)  .................................................................................................................................. 4
5. Current options for load management  ..................................................................................................................... 4
There are four requirements for efficient dynamic load flow management in transmission grids – flexibility, 
dynamic control, compact installation, and efficiency.
6. UPFC (Unified Power Flow Controller) the missing piece to the puzzle  .................................................................... 5
To effectively manage the transmission system and provide the stability and resilience required means operators 
must better utilise existing assets. This can be achieved by  
employing a dynamic load flow management solution such as UPFC (unified power flow controller) which is 
extremely faster to react and can manage both series and parallel compensation to keep lines within the n-1 
criterion and the electricity flowing.
7. Series and parallel compensation  ............................................................................................................................. 5
8. Summary of UPFC benefits  ....................................................................................................................................... 6UPFC PLUS | White Paper
1. Abstract
Enhancing transmission grid stability and reliability through 
dynamic load flow control
Energy ecosystems around the world are in a state of pro -
found change. Reliable electricity is a basic requirement for 
societies. While details may vary from country to country, 
and even from supply area to supply area, there are three 
common challenges for grid operators and power  
producers. Underdeveloped or weak grids, mature and 
ageing infrastructure and liberalised markets including a 
growing share of alternative energy sources, leading to the 
associated disruption to business models.
2. Modern challenges for a legacy power grid
There are three major trends that are currently challenging 
the transmission system and will continue to do so in the 
future. This trio of developments in the form of decarboni -
sation, decentralisation and deregulation are well known 
and understood but they still present Transmission System 
Operators (TSOs) with numerous problems.
According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), world 
gross electricity production was 3.9 per cent higher in 2018 
than the previous year. Year on year, global electricity 
production has grown continuously since 1974, While 
energy demand is growing significantly, driven by electrifi -
cation and sector coupling, the generation landscape 
shifting with fossil and nuclear power being replaced by 
renewable energy sources.
The transmission grid was constructed decades ago to 
manage electricity from conventional and nuclear-fuelled 
plants that were located near to major load centres. In 
recent years that has changed with increasing amounts of 
decentralised renewable generating assets coming online 
in areas where the grid was never designed to handle high and volatile loads. This is resulting in many lines that are 
under increasing pressure to carry heavy loads while other 
networks are now not fully utilised as they were used to be.
The rise of non-linear, distributed systems with a growing 
share of renewable infeed in parallel to the diminishing role 
for centralised generation has brought about a degree of 
complexity not previously seen. Grid operators need to 
cope with bidirectional load flows and intermittent infeed. 
They must bridge increasingly long distances between 
generation and load and enable energy exchange among 
different energy systems. At the same time, grid operators 
need to be as efficient as possible and develop new busi -
ness models to ensure long-term profitability. They also 
must meet sustainability goals and seek financing options 
that help implement the required technologies. 
The third challenge is deregulation that has created meshed 
grids with energy exchange between countries and regions 
becoming more important. This has resulted in high price 
differentials between market areas. Set against this grow -
ing demand and ageing, passive infrastructure, grid stabili -
ty and resilience is a major challenge. 
The traditional market and business models that have 
served the industry well for many decades are increasingly 
being disrupted by the growing tide of market liberalisa -
tion. New players, as well as new business and collabora -
tion models are entering the markets. 
White Paper  | UPFC PLUS
3
3. Overcoming network constraints
Building new power lines is difficult, no-one wants new 
overhead cables, and HVDC lines are costly. The approval 
process for high-voltage power lines takes around ten years 
and is fraught with challenges. Once recent example came 
in Germany where TSO, 50Hertz, had a vital 115km, 300kv 
transmission line from Uckermark to Berlin delayed by six 
years because of nature conservation concerns. There are 
other options available to TSOs such as securing power 
from neighbouring regions through interconnections or 
redispatch, whereby power is purchased from conventional 
or peak power plants. This option is expensive with the cost 
per kw/hr climbing by 30 per cent since 2017 and likely to 
continue increasing in the near future.
The additional costs incurred in redispatch measures are 
passed through network usage charges from the TSOs to 
the end customers. Electricity is therefore becoming more 
expensive for consumers. According to the Federal Network 
Agency, the share of network charges in the price of elec -
tricity for household customers rose from an average of 
5.75 ct/kWh to 7.31 ct/kWh between 2011 and 2017. The 
economic damage caused by redispatch is enormous in 
total: the costs were already around 18 billion euros in 2017.
Upgraded capacity on existing lines or new power supply 
infrastructure are required to connect the demands for 
power that are and will be growing, and the new decen -
tralised energy sources. In some regions, grid operators are 
challenged to strengthen the grid infrastructure in a fast-
tracked, yet cost-efficient manner. 
In light of these developments, new business models that 
support an economically viable role in this reshuffled 
energy ecosystem are required. This challenge extends 
beyond grid operation. Power producers are required to 
broaden their capabilities to optimise asset performance 
and explore new opportunities, including grid services, 
quick responses to fluctuating power demand and storage 
and beside all that, to ensure grid stability.
4. Calculating grid capacity (n-1)
For all grid operators the goal is to ensure that they operate 
a stable and reliable system, but this needs to be balanced 
against costs. To achieve this there needs to be a standard 
for an acceptable reliability level that can assure, with a 
high probability, that the voltage and frequency remain 
within an acceptable range.  
That standard is the n-1 criteria. This states that a system 
can tolerate at all times an unexpected failure or outage of 
a single system component. This principle has achieved 
acceptable results over the past decades.
This limit is calculated for each network and the actual 
figures varies from 50 to 70 per cent constant operation 
below the thermal limit to ensure that the load in the 
transmission line does not exceed parameters. With this 
limit, you guarantee that whenever a fault or outage occurs 
then the load in the remaining transmission line should not 
exceed more than 100 percent of the thermal limit. With 
the increased penetration of intermittent renewable gener -
ation and complexity to transmit this energy in dynamic 
situations that cannot be predicted, transmission lines can 
often violate this n-1 criterion. To maintain grid stability, it 
is vital that operators can manage this growing problem.5. Current options for load management
There are four requirements for efficient dynamic load flow 
management in transmission grids – flexibility, dynamic 
control, compact installation, and efficiency.
• Flexible: the device needs to have sufficient flexibility to 
operate within various scenarios that may occur in the 
future on a rapidly evolving power grid.
• Dynamic control: the device needs fast response to main -
tain system integrity during switch over and fault condi -
tions.
• Compact installation: the device needs to be compact and 
incorporate several functions within one unit.
• Efficiency: the device must have low operational costs, 
low impact and be easy to install & maintain.
There are several technologies currently available and all 
are well proven and work well in the correct use cases, but 
all have drawbacks and fail to meet all of the four key 
criteria.
• Thyristor controlled series capacitors (TCSC): The TCSC 
works by actively changing the impedance so that it 
becomes possible to damp power oscillations (POD) and 
to mitigate sub-synchronous resonance (SSR). Both are 
important for the stability and safety of generators in the 
grid, which could be harmed by the interaction of eigen -
frequencies with the resonance frequency of the compen -
sated line. The TCSC also enables specific line compensa -
tion when operating in steady state. However, it is a large 
installation with limited controllability and also generates 
harmonics.
• Phase shift transformers (PST): In power grids, PSTs pro -
vide active power flow control. By enforcing or blocking 
loads, they not only improve the stability and flexibility of 
grids but also help grid operators get the most out of 
existing hardware. However, PSTs have slow response 
times and limited dynamic capability. They cannot provide 
reactive power compensation so additional technology is 
required.
• HVDC systems with converter stations: HVDC systems 
provide transmission system operators with an exception -
ally economical and efficient opportunity to supply load 
centres. Such a bulk power transmission system delivers 
the required amounts of power, stabilises heavily strained 
AC grids, and establishes an interconnected power system 
across regions and countries. They are, however,  
extremely large installations, huge invests a full through 
power rating is required.
• Distributed series compensation: For decades, series 
compensation (SC) technology has improved grid stability 
and contributed to the optimal utilisation of transmission 
lines. TSOs around the world have already benefited from 
solutions that were tailored to their specific requirements. 
Among the main benefits of series compensation are the 
reduction of line voltage drops, limitation of load-depen -
dent drops, and a reduction of the transmission angle. 
However, they have limited dynamic capabilities, large 
quantities are required to work effectively and again they 
cannot provide reactive power compensation.UPFC PLUS | White Paper
4
6. UPFC (Unified Power Flow Controller) the missing 
piece to the puzzle
To effectively manage the transmission system and provide 
the stability and resilience required means operators must 
better utilise existing assets. This can be achieved by  
employing a dynamic load flow management solution such 
as UPFC (unified power flow controller) which is extremely 
faster to react and can manage both series and parallel 
compensation to keep lines within the n-1 criterion and the 
electricity flowing.
The UPFC can balance load flow in the AC grid, rapidly 
bypass overloaded line sections, provide reactive power and 
dynamic voltage control, and utilise assets to physical limits 
without the need for safety margins.
The UPFC is arranged as two voltage sources. One in paral -
lel that controls voltage and one in series connected to the 
AC line. It provides reactive power compensation, voltage 
control and active power load flow control in one unit. 
The system comprises of four main components:
1.The converter arrangement as a symmetrical monopole, 
back-to-back with the DC link. The back-to-back connec -
tion is the same installation as an HVDC system but here 
it serves a different purpose and has different controls.
2.Modular multilevel IGBT Voltage Sourced Converter (VSC) 
to achieve voltage level.
3.The series transformer injects the voltage into the trans -
mission line to either reduce or increase the current flow 
through the system. 
4.The shunt transformer controls the voltage and the infeed 
reactive power so that the voltage will remain within the 
plus or minus 10 per cent limits.7. Series and parallel compensation
Series side
Series is controlled to any operating point within the circle 
around Us.  
Series voltage injection controls load flow.  
100 per cent active power injection 0° or 180° to Ir  
100 per cent Reactive power injection 90° or 270° to Ir 
Parallel side
Voltage/reactive power control like STATCOM  
Active power transfer through DC-Link
Include  
Rapid response time
When managing a fully loaded network during a fault, the 
line loading will be at 100 per cent which will cause a 
voltage drop. Because of this, reactive power will need to 
be provided to ensure stability. Also, when managing or 
changing the load flow during a network fault it is possible 
that there will be some stability problems in the transmis -
sion line or network that will require insertion of active 
damping. The UPFC provides active damping by injecting a 
voltage with a controlled magnitude and angle to ensure 
that the line and voltage are in phase. 
With a UPFC the load can be balanced across numerous 
lines in milliseconds. When the network is healthy there is 
no time pressure to balance the flow, this can often be in 
the range of several minutes, but when a fault occurs you 
must act in milliseconds. The first requirement for any 
active or dynamic load flow management is to perform the 
load flow management in two time zones, both for slow 
control and fast control. Idc +
Udc+Shunt
Transformer
ControlSeries
TransformerBypass
Udc-
-White Paper  | UPFC PLUS
5
This is where UPFC outperforms other flow management 
components. In the field of dynamic load flow manage -
ment, it supplies fast response in terms of active power 
management, coordinated reactive power control and can 
insert active damping to ensure stability.
For effective dynamic load flow management, a response 
time in milliseconds is required to balance the load during 
the fault condition and manage the network integrity in 
terms of stability and thermal limits. This is achieved by the 
voltage source converter, which is one of the main compo -
nents of the UPFC system.
8. Summary of UPFC benefits
The UPFC PLUS applies the features and advantages of the 
well proven Voltage Sourced Converter (VSC) technology 
with its advanced control, high availability and reduced 
costs due to systematic standardization.
• It provides answer to today’s urgent challenges to keep 
the grid stable with
• Load flow control in AC grids
• Reactive power compensation and voltage support for 
different voltage levels 
• Fast reaction time in ms 
• Controlling of up to 300 per cent of its installed power 
capacity 
• Cost-efficient and a space saving solutionUPFC PLUS can easily be implemented in an existing grid 
and allows fast reaction times for an efficient load flow 
management. With this option and the high dynamic  
control assets can be operated closer to physical limits.
Thus, UPFC is an innovative solution to comply with the 
growing requirements to the grid with dynamic load flow 
management that adapts easily to changing infeed from 
renewable sources by fluctuating consumption, even in 
case of faults in the infrastructure.∿ ∿∿
∿UPFC
Sending
stationAC line Receiving
stationUseries
Us UM UIIr Is 
Ushunt
IrUrUM
UsUseries_UPFC
α
δ
Փ
UPFC PLUS | White Paper
6
Impressum
www.siemens-energy.com/upfcplus
Publisher:  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1  
80333 München, GermanySiemens Energy, Inc.  
15375 Memorial Drive, Suite 700  
Houston, Texas 77079, USA
For more information, please contact:  
support.energy@siemens.com
Editors:  
Daniela Preiß, Bernd NiemannAuthors:  
Kunal Sharma, Dr. Christian Pfeifer, German Kuhn Graphics:  
Bluebird-Alliance GmbH, Neuss, Germany and Siemens Gas and Power 
GmbH & Co. KG
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business 
of the Siemens group, which has been working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands of industry and society for more than 150 years. With planned stock listing, Siemens’ energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future.  
It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a comprehensive portfolio for utilities, independent power produc-ers, transmission system operators, the oil and gas industry, and other energy-intensive industries. With its products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central and distributed thermal power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the energy transformation, including storage and sector-coupling solutions. The majority stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future-oriented portfolio. With its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, Siemens Energy will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers on their path to a more sustainable future. With around 90,000 employees worldwide, Siemens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and tomorrow.  
www.siemens-energy.com
Disclaimer 
This document contains statements related to our future business and 
financial performance and future events or developments involving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “look forward to,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project” or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward-look -
ing statements in other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to shareholders and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assump -
tions of Siemens’ management, of which many are beyond Siemens’ control. These are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and factors, including, but not limited to those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter Risks in Siemens’ Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying expectations not occur or assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements of Siemens may (negatively or positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implicitly in the relevant forward looking statement. Siemens neither intends, nor assumes any obligation, to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipat -
ed. Trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of Siemens AG, its affiliates or their respective owners.
Siemens Energy i s a trademark lice nsed by Sieme ns AG.