Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 4 
 
Munich , February 11, 2021  
Siemens Energy delivers energy storage 
solution for Maersk Drilling’s first hybrid, 
low-emission jack -up drilling rig  
• Two jack -up rigs were  retrofitted with Siemens Energy’s BlueVault ™ lithium -ion energy storage 
system.  
• Initial data show that the low -emission upgrades in batteries, data monitoring, and other 
efficiency measures can deliver reductions in CO 2 by up to 25 percent and NOx emissio ns by up to 
95 percent.  
 
Siemens Energy signed an agreement with Maersk Drilling  to upgrade two ultra -harsh environment 
CJ70 jack -up drilling rigs in the North Sea with hybrid power plants using lithium -ion energy 
storage. The rigs – the Maersk Intrepid a nd Maersk Integrator  – were  retrofitted with BlueVault ™ 
batteries from Siemens Energy. They are the first jack -ups to employ a combination of hybrid, low -
emission solutions on the Norwegian Continental Shelf .  
 
The batteries have enable d Maersk Drilling to reduce the runtime of onboard combustion engines 
and maintain an operational setpoint where energy efficiency is maximized. The initial data point 
shows that Maersk Intrepid in the first month of operations with the full set of upgrades install ed 
was able to reduce  CO 2 emissions by 25 percent and NOx emissions by 95 percent compared to the 
baseline average for the rig .  
“We’re thrilled to receive a promising first data  set on emission reductions ,” said Caroline Alting, 
Head of Integrity & Projec ts for Maersk Drilling.  “It’s still too early to make any definitive conclusions 
on average emission reductions over time, but the preliminary results are promising with reductions 
around 25  percent  compared to the rig’s baseline, driven by both energy -saving technology and 
behavioral changes supported by the low -emission package .”  
The advanced BlueVault battery system is suited for both all -electric and hybrid power applications 
and is specifically designed to minimize emissions and ensure continuity of power on offshore 
vessels. The solution has been installed on various marine ves sels worldwide, including the West Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 4 
 
Mira ultra -deep semi -submersible, the world’s first low -emissions drilling rig to use lithium -ion 
energy storage.  
 
Offshore rigs are ideally suited for hybrid power plants, as they have highly variable power 
consumption f or drilling, dynamic positioning, and station keeping . The diesel -electric solution with 
BlueVault energy storage will reduce the transient load on gen erator sets, meaning that basic 
requirement s can be met by fewer engines operating at a higher load,  thus  decreasing carbon 
emissions.  
 
The batteries' temperature  is regulated with a water -cooling system, which works as a passive safety 
layer to prevent thermal runaway. Another differentiating feature is the system’s digitalized 
condition monitoring system, w hich provides state of health (SOH) and state of charge (SOC) 
transparency for individual cells to maximize the batteries ’ performance and lifespan.  
 
Siemens Energy also suppl ied BlueDrive power electronics and advanced monitoring software.   
 
“We are proud  to contribute to Maersk  Drilling ’s strategy to set a new industry standard for low -
emission offshore drilling and look forward to bringing this highly sustainable solution to additional 
rigs in the future ,” said Jennifer Hooper, Senior Vice President, Industrial Applications Solutions for 
Siemens Energy.  
 
Norwegian fund dedicated to reducing NOx emissions  
 
Maersk Drilling applied for project funding through the NOx Fund – a Norwegian fund dedicated to 
reducing NOx emissions. The fund is contr ibuting a grant of up to 80  percent  of project costs 
(subject to verification of the emission -reducing upgrades) . It has high hopes that the ultra -harsh 
jack-ups will be a benchmark for the offshore industry as it drives toward emissions reductions . 
The gl obal fleet of Jack -ups is nearly 500 units. Siemens Energy believes that approximately 300 of 
these may be eligible candidates for similar upgrades with BlueVault batteries.  Upgrading all of 
these drilling rigs with batteries would potentially reduce  emissions by more than 1  million tons of 
CO 2 per year*, equivalent to annual emissions from 725,000 automobiles**.   
*) Estimate may differ  due to different designs and size s of rigs, with different consumptions and emissions. The CJ70 s 
are among the bigge st units ; therefore , the savings are likely to be bigger than those applicable for smaller rigs.  
**) with an average of 15.000 km/year and an average of 120 Co2/km.  
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 4 
 
 
Above:  The Maersk Intrepid is being  retrofitted with BlueVault batteries from Siemens Energy.  
 
 
Above:  Siemens Energy’s  advanced BlueVault battery system is suited for both all -electric and hybrid power 
applications and is specifically designed to minimize emissions and ensure continuity of power on offshore 
vessels.  
 
 
 
 

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  4 of 4 
 
Contact for journalists  
Janet Ofano  
Phone:  +1 803 -389-6753 
E-mail:  janet.ofano@siemens -energy.com  
 
 
This press release and press picture s are available at  www.siemens -energy.com/press  
  
For further information on Energy Storage Solutions , please see http://bit.ly/393UNCd  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
Siemen s Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio in cludes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake i n the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy emplo ys  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 