 
   sheet 1 of 7 
 
 
  
siemens -energy.com  SIPREC I  
IGBT Inverter - HV Power Supply for Electrostatic 
Precipitator ESP  

 
   sheet 2 of 7 SIPREC I P ower Supply  
The SIPREC I technology is the 4th generation of Siemens inverter technology for ESPs high voltage power 
supply. The SIPREC I further development comes with:  
• Modern  IGBT power semiconductors (Insulated Gate  Bipolar Transistors)  
• PIC167 n ew generation of fully digital microcontroller unit  
• with high speed data processing and multitasking properties  
• SITOUCH color operating touch panel  
• Cubicle arrangement for easy access to all components  
• Optical interface for signal exchange with high voltage transformer rectifier set (TR set) 
and PROFIBUS n etworking to prevent possible electrical interferences  
• SIPREC TR500 high voltage transformer rectifier set  
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
For new ESP installations we recommend installing  the SIPREC I power supply system cons isting of the 
SIPREC I control cubicle and the SIPREC TR500  T/R set for maximum performance . For retrofitting of 
existing ESPs,  we also offer SIPREC I Hybrid IGBT control cubicle for the reus e of existing and suitable  
50Hz/60Hz T/R sets.  
 
 
  

 
   sheet 3 of 7 Advantages of SIPREC I T echnology  
• Highest ESP collecting efficiency due to maximum corona power especially during flashover  
processing   
• Cost saving s of new projects because of the smaller dimensional requirements of the ESP   
• Boosting the collecting efficie ncy of existing ESPs without much more cost intensive change in 
the mechanical construction of the ESP  
• Separation of control cubicle (switch room) and TR set (ESP roof)  
• Fully  hermetically sealed TR set without require d forced cooling , withstand ing extreme industrial 
ambient conditions (high humidity, temperature, dust, maritime/tropical climate etc.)  and 
maintenance free operation  
• Power factor (cos ϕ ) near 1, no compensation required  
• 3-phase mains connection with considerably lower system perturbation  
• Operation  in DC and pulse mode with  superordinated optimization by SIPREC ODS for maximum 
ESP collecting efficiency at lowest power consumption  
 
SIPREC I T echnology Concept  
 
 
The SIPREC I control cubicle consists of a fuse -switch -disconnector  with semiconductor fuses , a line 
filter, the commutation reactor , a half -controlled six -pulse bridge rectifier , the voltage link capacitors , 
the IGBT power semiconductor modules  and SIPREC controller components.  The controlled rectifier  
charges the voltage link and is operated like an uncontrolled diode bridge when a certain link voltage  

 
   sheet 4 of 7 level is reached. The voltage link serves as energy stor age. The IGBT inverter can either tap energy or 
give off energy. The inverter supplies the SIPR EC TR500 transformer rectifier , accommodated in an oil -
filled transformer tank, with alternating current with 500 Hz. After rectification, a DC current flows 
with short gaps in a 1000Hz pattern. The coordinating two -level current control operates with a 
frequency of approx. 10 kHz. The short switching times enable the very fast react ion to precipitator 
flashovers.  
 
Type Range  
Mains voltage 
3AC 380 -690 V  Type (mA  / kV) Power  
(kVA)  Cubicle size  
W x D x H  
(mm)  Cubicle 
weight  
(kg) Transformer 
Rectifier set 
weight (kg)  
90 kV            SIPREC I     600  / 90 54 600 x 600 x 2070  270 910 
SIPREC I   1500  / 90 135 600 x 600 x 2070  280 1110  
SIPREC I   2200  / 90 200 800 x 600 x 2070  300 1110  
110 kV                                                                  SIPREC I     500  / 110 55 600 x 600 x 2070  270 1160  
SIPREC I   1500  / 110 165 800 x 600 x 2070  300 1280  
SIPREC I   1800  / 110 200 800 x 600 x 2070  300 1480  
 
 
   sheet 5 of 7 Increased Corona Power  
Corona power is the product from the arithmetic 
mean value of ESP voltage and current  
(Pcorona  = V prec x I prec).  
 
To achieve the highest possible ESP collecting 
efficiency, the corona power supplied must be 
as high as possible ( @ no back corona 
conditions).  One phase ( W1C) or three phase 
(W3C ) thyristor- controlled T/R sets cause a ripple 
of the ESP voltage  (VR = V max - V min) and non-
continuous DC current b ased on the circuit 
concept . The voltage ripple value, depending in 
addition on the thyristor control angle, is typically in the range of ⅓ – ⅔ of V
max. The 
arithmetic average values for ESP voltage and 
curren t are therefore much less than the peak 
values.  
Due to the very fast SIPREC I IGBT switching time 
(10 µsec) and  inverting frequency of 500Hz , the 
SIPREC TR500 output voltage is nearly ripple-
free in any working point at every output 
current .  
As a matter o f this , the mean value for ESP 
voltage and current is increased up to the peak values. As a result of this depending on the V / I 
characteristic , the corona power supplied by 
SIPREC I can be more than doubled compared to 
thyristor- controlled  T/R sets . The ESP voltage and therefore the ESP current is 
limited when reaching the flashover limit value V
FO due to the appearance of electrical 
discharges (flashover, spark) .  
 
Flashover / sparks must be detected 
immediately  and t he short -circuit currents 
feeding the arc must be stopped as quick as 
possible to keep the ESP voltage and current 
values or to enable  the fast recover y.  
Based on the very short SIPREC I IGBT switching 
times , these short -circuit currents  are switched -
off within some µsec only exactly when 
necessary , which is much faster compared to 
the thyristor technology .  
Therefore,  the required de-ionization time  for 
non-self- quenching flashover is much lower,  
and the ESP voltage  / current  values are  
recovered within some milliseconds only. 
Detected self -quenching flashover (sparks) are 
processed without a ny de -ionization time.  
This leads to remarkable increased ESP 
collecting efficiency during flashover processing typical for all ESP gas inlet fields.
  
Partial  discharges typical for wet ESP's are 
difficult to detect by common detection methods. Not detected discharges however lead 
to damages on the ESP electrode system, ESP 
casing or insulators. SIPREC I provide in addition to the common flashover / spark detection a 

 
   sheet 6 of 7 special detection for partial  discharges to 
prevent the formation of arcs and to protect the 
wet ESP.  
 
Optimum Operating Point with 
Fuzzy Logic  
The ESP voltage V prec must be adapted 
continuously to the flashover limit V FO.  
VFO varies depending on actual operating 
conditions (dust concentration  / composition, 
gas humidity, gas temperature etc.).  
Fuzzy logic adapts the behavior of the power supply to the best possible operating point and 
the fast power electronics carries out the 
commands of the overlaid control even faster 
than the reaction time of the precipitator.  
 
Collecting Electrode Rapping  
Besides voltage supply, the effectiveness of collecting electrode rapping is of key 
importance to achieve best possible dry ESP 
collection efficiency.  
To ensure effective collecting electrode rapping, the rapping intervals must  be individually 
optimized for each electric field to suit the respective operating conditions.  
In applications involving highly resistive dust or 
dust wi th a pronounced sticking behavior, the 
precipitator voltage may have to be reduced or 
even cyclically blocked during electrode 
rapping.  
The c ollecting electrode rapping can  be 
controlled by SIPREC I  or the rapping signal of 
the external control (PLC / DCS) can be 
connected to SIPREC I.  
The SIPREC I controller provide  10 selectable 
rapping parameter sets which are adjusted and activated in accordance with the respective 
process conditions  (e.g. rappin g mode , interval 
settings , rapping current  decrease, power -off 
cycle) .  
The c oordination of the rapping intervals in the 
individual electric fields is accomplished with the aid of the SIPREC ODS system.  
 
Addon: SIPREC ODS  
The SIPREC ODS program based on WINDOWS 
operating system supports the S IPREC HV  power 
supply systems for central operation, 
visualization, data archiving of measured 
operating values, for optimization of the ESP 
operation  and diagnostic purposes.  
SIPREC ODS optimize the ESP coll ecting 
efficiency at lowest power consumption. The 
extensive diagnostic functions enable beside 
the fault analysis the evaluation of the ESP 
operating process and provide information for 
the predictive maintenance. Furthermore, the 
diagnostic functions als o form the basis for the 
fast and inexpensive Siemens Energy remote service.  
 
For further information please see our separate SIPREC ODS brochure .

 
        sheet 7 of 7 
 
Take advantage from our experience  
 
We are looking forward answering your questions concerning the modernization of ESP high voltage 
power supplies, the data exchange to the PLC / DCS, the possible increase in ESP collecting efficiency, 
potential for power savings or other questions related to the ESP operation.  
Just get in contact with us.  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
SE GP G IC DE Electrostatic Precipitator  
Freyeslebenstrasse 1,  
91058  ERLANGEN, Germany  
For more information, please visit our website:  
www. siemens -energy.com  
Or sent an email to :  siprec.energy@siemens -energy.com  
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifical ly reflect those  
described, or which may undergo modification in the course of  
further development of the products. The requested performance  
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in  
the concluded contract.  
 
Siemens Energy is a regi stered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.    
   