Initial Situation
Reduction of nuclear and fossil power and the 
increase of renewable power is causing stability 
problems in the high -voltage grid worldwide.
Our Solution
Any existing power plant generator type could 
be converted into a synchronous condenser. It 
could supply the grid with short circuit power 
and could ensure permanent dynamic voltage 
and reactive power control. Synchronous 
condenser aim to stabilize the frequency and 
support the voltage also for long distances. 
They could generate electricity during dynamic 
peak demands and have the capability to build 
up the grid after black -out. The project time for 
converting the plant is usually less than 12 
months. The solution allows to utilize existing 
assets and therefore offers a very short Return 
on Investment (ROI).A synchronous condenser is a generator without a prime mover from a gas or steam turbine. It stabilizes the grid in 
changing reactive power demands. The rotating mass and the dynamic generation of reactive power stands for the high 
advantages of this product. Short circuit power supply and the frequency stabilization are the main benefits of the 
synchronous condenser.
Your Benefits
▪Minimum costs due to re -
use of the existing generator 
and relevant auxiliary 
systems. Written -off assets 
can be reactivated.
▪Extended lifetime of a power 
plant generates additional 
revenue.
▪Decreased danger for 
blackouts as grid is in an 
optimum range of operation 
due to improved cos and 
increase of short capability.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG UnrestrictedReactive power depending on generator size 
up to +1,500 / -1,000 MVar
(cap. / ind.)
System Inertia
(Kinetic Energy)Up to 4,000 MWs 
with flywheel
Short Circuit 
Power Sk’’Up to 1,800 MVA at point of 
connectionTechnical dataTechnical Requirements
•Shaft train calculation
•Removal of turbine components
•Foundation verification
•Axial support of shaft train
•Turning gear system
•Cooling system optimization
•Lube and lifting oil supply adaptation
•Modification of protection system
•Modification of the plant DCS
Over 50 different projects have been 
developed and planned with customers for 
OEM and non -OEM plants worldwide. In the 
meantime, projects have been realized in 
Germany, Denmark, Sweden and USA.
Siemens Energy offers a large pool of 
solutions for different applications all over 
the world for all types of generators.* brownfield / for (non) -operating power plantsSynchronous 
Condenser
Conversions*
www.siemens -energy.com
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
Siemens Energy, Inc.
15375 Memorial Drive, Suite 700
Houston, Texas 77079, USA
For more information, please contact
Email: sppa -e3000.energy@siemens -energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. 
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose 
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.