As a top tier supplier of 
compressors Siemens Energy
has the domain expertise and 
experience across the range of 
several well-known legacy brands 
of compressors including the 
Siemens legacy and the Dresser-
Rand legacy. This expertise comprises both the 
compressors themselves as well as the decades 
of experience in compressor control. The en-
hanced Compressor Train One Control (in the fol-
lowing abbreviated as One Control) core functions 
are used in both the worldwide leading SIMATIC 
PCS 7/S7 automation product family from Siemens
Energy or the well-established Allen-Bradley.
Siemens Energy’s One Control features a patented 
load sharing algorithm, which helps equalize
surge margins and maximize system efficiency
by sharing flow among multiple compressors
that are connected to common suction and 
discharge lines.
siemens-energy.comCompressor Train
One Control
Load Sharing
Application
A compression process consists of one compressor or a 
network of multiple compressors. Controlled distribution of 
the transport capacities is necessary for stable and efficient 
operation. Compressor load sharing is used to maintain 
uniform throughput flow or share of capacity for compressor 
units operating in parallel, typically connected to common 
suction and discharge headers as shown in Figure 1.
The load sharing function is normally integrated as a function 
block into the PLC based unit control system.
Load Sharing Control
A higher-level plant control system usually provides a setpoint 
for the master controller of the load sharing control regarding 
the current process requirements. The setpoint can refer to a 
required header suction pressure or header discharge 
pressure or station flow for all the units.
The speed of the compressor driver, the inlet throttle valve 
position, or the inlet guide vane (IGV) position is used as a 
feedback signal to the load sharing controller. The load 
sharing master controller itself consists of the process 
control(s), such as suction pressure, discharge pressure or 
flow control.
The load sharing algorithm varies the throughput of the 
com-pressor by adjusting the driver speed on variable speed 
units or an inlet throttle valve or guide vane position on 
constant speed units.
The load sharing controller outputs have a defined rate of 
change that limits the rate of the corresponding actuator.  
This is used to limit the rate of control action for stability 
purposes, and to minimize negative interaction between load 
sharing control-lers, surge controllers and other elements in 
the process.
Compressor trains with identical capacities
A master performance controller is used to provide a common 
setpoint for each compressor load sharing controller and does 
consist of one or more process controllers controlling suction 
or discharge header pressures or station flow for all the units.
Since the load sharing controller for each unit has the same 
input setpoint from the master controller, the units are 
caused to share the total load equally. This equal sharing of 
the total load creates a balanced operation and increases the 
efficiency of all the units.For example, during low flow conditions, if the speed of a 
unit is being decreased so rapidly as to cause the flow to 
decrease below the anti-surge control line, the ramp down of 
speed will be temporarily stopped long enough to allow the 
surge control action to open the recycle valve to increase flow 
above the limit. This action prevents the speed of the unit 
from being decreased so rapidly as to drive the compressor 
into a surge condition. The highest of the compressor 
throughput flow signals from the units is used as a feedback 
signal to the master controller.
Since the load sharing controller for each unit has the same 
input setpoint from the master controller, the units share the 
total load equally. This equal sharing of the total load creates 
a balanced operation and increases the efficiency of all units.
Figure 1a: General control schematic
Figure 2: Siemens Energy compressor STC SVFigure 1b: General schematic with inlet guide vane (IGV)

Compressor trains with different capacities
When compressor trains with different capacities are load 
shar-ing, the Load Sharing Control ensures an equalization of 
relative surge margins of the operating point of each 
compressor on its performance curve using the CEF value. 
Hence, the controller can manage and optimize load sharing 
between multiple operating compressor trains even with 
different compressor capacities.
Coefficient of Export Flow (CEF)
Conventional load sharing algorithms are based upon the 
rela-tionship between compressor inlet flow Qin and the surge 
con-trol setpoint Qsp. This limits the load sharing range to the 
surge control line, at which point Qin becomes meaningless 
because it does not account for recycled flow Qreq.
The compressor throughput flow Qtp is a calculated value 
con-sisting of the compressor inlet flow minus the recycle 
flow de-pending on the recycle valve position.Decoupling from Anti-Surge Controller
When the operating point reaches the control line, interaction 
between anti-surge controllers and load sharing controllers 
(LSC) can lead to destabilization. To prevent this, the load 
shar-ing controllers are decoupled from anti-surge controllers 
when flow approaches the surge line. By communicating with 
anti-surge controllers, the Load Sharing Controller can 
stabilize the process if the flow moves beyond the surge 
control line.
Dedicated Master Controller
A traditional master controller is used to control load sharing 
controllers of parallel units in a control system, as shown in 
Figure 1. The master controller is often located separately 
from the units being controlled.
Floating Master Controller
The Floating Master Controller (FMC) allows the master 
control-ler to be embedded into each of the units (see below) 
providing additional functionality to ‘float’ the master 
between the units, perform data synchronization and fault 
detection.To eliminate this problem, One Control’s algorithm uses the 
patented Coefficient of Export Flow (CEF), that represents the 
ratio of the unit export flow of the process to the surge 
control line. This value accounts for any flow being recycled 
through the anti-surge valves and allows for effective load 
sharing over the entire operating range of the compressor.
Figure 3: Calculation of Coefficient of Export Flow (CEF)
Figure 5: Units with dedicated and Floating Master ControllerFigure 4: Example of load balancing operation

The redundant master controllers in the other units track the 
active master (local/remote setpoints, manual demand and 
tuning values) using soft link communications.
Product performance
Siemens Energy Load Sharing Control provides (among others)
•  Optimized use with Siemens Energy compressors
•   Flexible location of the master performance controller, “self-
organizing” concept with Floating Master concept
•  Efficiency maximizationRemote support
Siemens Energy is also able to offer local advice, support, and 
intervention, provided by specialist personnel in our enginee -
ring centers, based on fleet and technical knowledge as an 
OEM. In line with our Service Agreements, our Competence 
Center will assist you with different kinds of technical issues 
and provide online troubleshooting with secured access to the 
control system.If the active master controller fails, there is an automatic 
bumpless transfer to the backup master controller residing in 
another unit, which then become the new active master.
Load Sharing Features – in a nutshell
•  Patented load sharing algorithm
•   Automatic balancing to give an equal load share to each participating machine
•   Accounts for any flow being recycled
•   Ideally suited for compressors with identical capacities (throughput) or different capacities (CEF)
•   Maintain the operating points of all compressor trains at the same margin from the surge control line
•  Floating master and dedicated master principle
•   Decoupling of anti-surge and load sharing controllers to avoid dynamic instabilities
•   Load sharing control architecture can be customized to meet specific control requirements
•   Maximize system efficiency by minimizing recycle flows
•   Provide fully automatic operation and plant load optimi-zation by using an integrated load sharing strategy  
encompassing multiple compressor trains

Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Transformation of Industry
Siemens promenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc. 
Transformation of Industry 
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, 
or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes 
could violate the rights of the owner.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.