We provide tailor-made Long Term Training Programs (LTP)  
for your equipment, either at a location of your choice or  
at our purpose-built Training Center in Duisburg, Germany.
Well trained operations and maintenance personnel are vital 
to operating your plant safely, efficiently, and productively. 
Keeping you up to date with our latest technology 
developments is essential to our customer support 
philosophy.
By fully utilizing our expert knowledge from millions of 
equivalent operating hours of data, advanced component 
models, and with more than 100 years of Original Equipment 
Manufacturer (OEM) service experience, we can improve your 
in-house capabilities to help you get the most out of your 
equipment.
With LTP training options extending up to five years, we have 
a solid framework to provide you with a fully customizable 
plan that can be flexibly adjusted at any time, according to 
your equipment and resource requirements.
You can choose for your training to be part of a standard 
LTP or a dedicated, independent training program.  
Choose your training topics, content, and delivery 
approach. The choice is all yours .
We offer a wide variety of training approaches globally,  
to suit your individual needs.siemens-energy.comFlexible, customized, 
long term training 
programs for rotating 
equipment.
© 2023 Siemens Energy
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transformation of Industry  
Siemens promenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this  
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of furhter  
development of the products. The requested performance features  
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the  
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks  
or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or  
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes  
could violate the rights of the owners.For further information on our fully customized  
LTP Training Programs, please contact our product  
training experts:
Tel: +49 (0)203 605 4039  
Email: Customer Training Team Duisburg Training at your Location
We offer both classroom and hands-on training at your 
location with a wide range of customized training programs 
from a basic understanding of equipment technology to plant 
management, operations and maintenance, control systems, 
and an understanding of associated disciplines for your entire 
machine train.
Hands on Training at our Duisburg Training Center
Our state-of-the-art Training Center includes:
• 15 different steam turbines and compressors
•  Installed 120 MW two casing steam turbine, gear box, 
generator, and auxiliary systems
• Water steam system and test bed for steam turbines
•  Installed compressor train with two casings, gear box, 
electrical motor, and all auxiliary systems
• Various mechanical and electronic control systems
• 7 full time and various on-demand trainers
Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering
In partnership with the University Duisburg / Essen we offer a 
master’s degree which comprises of classroom-based product 
training and hands on experience at our Duisburg Training 
Center. Topics include: 
• Production Management
• Materials
• Combustion Science
• Heat and Mass Transfer 
• Turbomachinery 
• Advanced Engineering
• Control Theory 
• Computer Aided Engineering
