Blue high-voltage products Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications The Blue portfolio – a cleaner future The technology transforming transmission Decarbonizing the energy industry is about more than switching to renewable sources. To achieve Zero Global Warming Potential (GWP), it's essential we make the transmission of power as clean and green as its generation. This means eliminating F-gases from electrical switchgear – particularly SF 6 , a gas 24,300 times more climate-hostile than CO 2 . Our Blue portfolio uses clean air and vacuum switching technology instead. Zero F-gases, Zero toxicity and Zero harm to human health and the environment. Explore the Blue portfolio “ Less global warming potential is not good enough. It has to be Zero, because 1% global warming potential is still global warming potential. It has to be Zero and it has to be now. Nikola Jankulovski Siemens Energy Project Lead A transformed plant transforming energy We’ve recently invested €60 million in our Berlin facility to step up production of vacuum interrupters for our Blue portfolio. This will help to secure our supply chain – and since the plant uses 100% renewable energy, it will also increase our sustainability. Explore more The Blue portfolio Not just Zero F gases, but Zero reduction in performance Our Blue products use vacuum switching technology and clean air insulation to produce Zero harmful emissions - and without having to compromise on performance or economic feasibility. With over 10 years of experience in high-voltage vacuum switching, we have been able to maintain outstanding levels of technical performance and low lifecycle costs while reducing our ecological footprint to an enormous extent. Blue is already the perfect choice for substation products. And with the help of our strong partnerships, we can develop and implement it even further and faster. Download Blue portfolio overview Blue switchgear: leading the way, backed by the EU Collaboration is crucial in cutting climate-harming emissions – and the LIFE Blue project GIS 420 kV is the latest example of how this works in practice. Backed by EU funding and in partnership with Elia, operator of the electricity transmission network in Belgium, the LIFE Blue project is set to demonstrate  for the first time the economic viability of a climate-friendly and completely F-gas free 420 kV GIS. Instead of SF 6 -gas, which has a global warming potential of 24,300, clean air is used for insulation. The technology is already operational in medium-voltage applications, but its use at this higher voltage will represent a major step forward. Read more on the importance and potential of this ongoing development. Learn more on the EU funding project EU F-gas regulation factsheet White paper PFAS F-gases The new net-zero 8VM3 Our new customizable 8VM3 switchgear operates at 72.5 kW and has Sensgear TM digital technology built in for greater transparency and enhanced productivity. Its modular design also gives it the flexibility to work in conventional onshore substations as well as offshore wind turbines. Download product flyer Blue partnerships At Siemens Energy, we see a partnership as much more than a simple supplier-client relationship. It goes way beyond the placing and delivery of an order. Rather, it's a dose alliance between both parties. We work together towards a shared goal, developing the end solution by exchanging ideas and expertise at every stage. This collaborative, interactive approach is mutually beneficial. Solutions can be shaped to meet particular requirements and the optimal set-up is reached more quickly. Explore Blue partnerships Blue installations in operation Our Blue portfolio is already helping our customers around the world to advance towards their carbon reduction goals. Here are just a few examples of the technology - and our close collaborations – in action. At work in the world’s largest wind farm Bringing clean power to Bergen Port A new substation for Netze BW The first F-gas-free switchgear in Finland Decarbonization through digitalization with Westnetz At work in the world’s largest wind farm We delivered 160 8VM1 Blue Gis bays to this huge project off the coast of the Netherlands, which is capable of supplying up to three million Dutch households with green energy. "Being CO 2 -neutral is the future and the target for our customers in the offshore wind market, as well as for us at Siemens Energy." – Ann-Sofie Bonde Mortensen, Global Vertical Sales Manager Offshore Wind, Siemens Energy. Bringing clean power to Bergen Port Thanks to BKK Nett's use of Blue switchgear, the cruise ships in this Norwegian port now use only clean power - with Zero greenhouse gas emissions, Zero F-gases and Zero pollution. "We managed to make the change in Bergen despite having restricted space in our substations. The experience is what we expected: problem-free." – Jens Skar, Division Manager, BKK Nett. Learn more A new substation for Netze BW This high-voltage substation in Burladingen, southern Germany is the first in the world to be eco-efficient, to operate without SF 6 and to use digitalization to achieve new levels of connectivity. "The innovation level in this project is very high. The substation of the future is a bold step for us, that requires trust." – Marcel Engel, Netze BW expert for grid development. Learn more The first F-gas-free switchgear in Finland When we supplied ten bays of our Blue switchgear to Fingrid, we were delivering the first GIS in the country that replaces F-gases with clean air. "With Siemens Energy we have found a reliable partner that offers innovative products with absolutely Zero climate-harming fluorinated gases." – Timo Kiiveri, Senior Vice President at Fingrid. Learn more Decarbonization through digitalization with Westnetz The digitally-enabled 145 kV 3AV1 Blue circuit breakers installed at the Hesseln substation incorporate Sensgear TM , a cloud- based monitoring solution that provides data to improve grid operation, asset management and maintenance. "The medium-term replacement of the insulating gas SF 6 is an essential component of the decarbonization strategy of our E.ON Group." – Dr. Markus Obergünner, Senior Vice President High Voltage Grid, Westnetz GmbH. Contact us Downloads Get in contact with our Sales Support and Customer Service Do you need help on a concrete project? Do you need a quote for any of our products or solutions? You can contact us 24/7. We are looking forward to your call (+49 911 6505 6505) or online request. Contact form Product information: Explore the Blue portfolio 8VM3 Blue GIS 8VM1 Blue GIS 8VN1 Blue GIS Gas-Insulated Busduct 3AV1 Blue LT Circuit Breaker 3AV1 Blue DT Circuit Breaker 3AV2 Blue LT Circuit Breaker Further reading: White paper PFAS F-gases EU F-gas regulation factsheet Webinar EU F-gas regulation Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025