EU Life Blue Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications LIFE Blue GIS 420 kV - high-voltage and SF6-free Facilitated by the EU LIFE funding project Project objective Almost all high-voltage circuit breakers (CB) and gas insulated switchgear (GIS) installed over the last fifty years have used SF 6 gas for insulation. This is the most potent greenhouse gas currently known, with a global warming potential (GWP) of 24,300. While mature alternatives to SF 6 are available for medium voltage applications, until now there are no commercially available climate-neutral alternatives with comparable performance at the 420 kV level. In the course of this project, the EU LIFE program is funding the further development of the Blue 420 kV GIS as part of its commitment to climate neutrality, to the reduction of GHGs, and to the promotion of green technologies. The EU’s support for this project aligns with its Green Deal objectives and its strategy to decarbonize the energy sector. The project also contributes to the EU’s F-gas regulation and climate neutrality targets for 2050. Project steps The LIFE Blue 420 kV GIS project will demonstrate for the first time the economic viability of a climate-friendly and completely F-gas free 420 kV GIS which combines clean air insulation and vacuum switching technology with a digital low power instrument transformer (LPIT). This Blue GIS will replace an existing indoor GIS at TSO Elia in Vilvoorde, Belgium. The clean air set to be used instead of SF 6 consists of nitrogen and oxygen and has a GWP of zero. In collaboration with the EU’s LIFE program, Siemens Energy and ELIA entered a partnership in October 2024, which is scheduled to continue until September 2028. Over the course of those four years, both parties will conduct. 1 Step Development and testing of the LPIT solution for Blue 420 kV GIS 2 Step Type testing of the CB (including LPIT) 3 Step Pilot installation of 1 GIS bay in the ELIA substation (including engineering, manufacturing, instrumentation and control) 4 Step Operation at ELIA substation for 1 year (+5 years) including monitoring, evaluation and technical assessment Technical potential Besides significant savings of greenhouse gases through being emission-free, any PFAS input is avoided – which is not the case with other alternatives to SF 6 . In addition, the project will deliver the world's first 420 kV LPIT with cast resin embedded sensors and clean air insulation, replacing conventional current and voltage transformers. The LPIT will offer new digital possibilities in current and voltage metering and additional functions such as power quality measurement and will help to significantly reduce the size and copper cabling of SF 6 -free GIS solutions. Wider project impact 270 replications of the project throughout Europe and worldwide are planned by 2032, for both existing GIS installations (as replacements) and for new substations. The project is part of the Siemens Energy roadmap and will serve as a blueprint for technology transfer, e.g. to even higher voltage levels. Project funding Created in 1992, the LIFE program is the EU’s funding vehicle for the environment and climate action. To date it has co-financed more than 6,000 projects helping Europe to become greener, and since 2021 it has included the Clean Energy Transition sub-program. As part of the LIFE program, the EU contributes just over 4.1m euros as part of an overall budget of over 6 million euros. Find the LIFE Blue GIS project in the EU funding portal The power of partnership Collaboration is key in all of our projects. Here we work closely with the EU Programme for the Environment and Climate Action (LIFE) and Elia, operator of the electricity transmission network in Belgium. This joint project began on 1 October 2024, and is scheduled to continue until 30 September 2028. The LIFE Programme is the EU’s funding instrument for the environment and climate action. It began in 1992 and has co-financed thousands of projects in the field of environmental protection driving fundamental change in the environment and people’s lives, with over 6,000 projects making a difference at the local level. LIFE European Commission Siemens Energy AG, a global leader in energy technology, drives the energy transition with innovative solutions covering almost the entire energy value chain. Operating in over 90 countries with 100,000 employees, an estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on Siemens Energy technology. www.siemens-energy.com Elia Transmission Belgium operates the electricity transmission network in Belgium. They manage the Belgian high-voltage transmission grid (30 kV to 400 kV), which comprises over 8,903 km of overhead lines and underground cables. They preserve a service reliability level of 99.99 % and ensure that production and consumption are balanced around the clock. www.elia.be News & Media Flyer EU LIFE Blue GIS Download the flyer to find out more about the work packages. Read more Switchgear Magazine explores Blue Read the interview with Ulf Katschinski and discover latest innovations on SF6-free vacuum-based technologies, learn about their readiness for large-scale deployment and how the EU Commission is supporting it. Read more kick-off to clean air On 2nd October we were happy to kick-off the project together with our consortium members from Elia Group from Belgium. We are proud of this strong partnership and are looking forward to gain and share operational experience on the next level of Blue switchgear with Zero emissions. Read more Stay up to date with developments Since this is an ongoing project, we will be updating this page as it progresses. Be sure to check back regularly for the latest news. Co-funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or CINEA. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025