Modernization and Upgrades for Industrial Steam Turbines Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Modernization & Upgrades for Industrial Steam Turbines Lifetime Extension Efficiency Availability CO2 Savings Lifetime Extension Efficiency Availability CO2 Savings Boost your profitability with optimized sustainable solutions Are you looking to: Increase plant profitability? Modify operating parameters? Increase or reduce output power? Improve efficiency? Reduce steam consumption? Minimize shutdown time? Lifetime extension? Prevent risks or frequent repairs on outdated equipment? Modernization and Upgrades programs from Siemens Energy help operators in preserving valuable resources while maintaining their systems at peak levels of efficiency, reliability, and availability as well as power, flexibility, and environment-friendliness – with OEM-quality services. Contact us Footprints and revamps are optimal when your: Present steam turbine cannot be modified for technical reasons The casing and steam admission components have reached the end of their service lifetime and need to be replaced Your turbine can no longer be operated continuously under design conditions Inspections and overhauls on older turbines may take longer than scheduled because of unexpected findings Options for modernizing aging steam turbines Footprint Solutions A “footprint” turbine is a replacement turbine which does not require any significant modifications to be made to the existing base frame or foundation. The existing oil system, gearbox and driven machine (generator, compressor, etc.) can also continue to be used with no, or only minor ones. If necessary, they can be adapted to the new operating parameters. Read footprint reference Dresser-Rand Footprint Solution Turbine Revamp A “revamp” is the replacement of the steam path for optimization of turbine performance. Read revamp reference Other Modernization & Upgrades portfolio products include technical studies, energy studies, heat cycle optimization, T&T valves, control upgrades, and rotor dynamic analysis. Explore below to discover how our modernizations and upgrades have benefited our customers: Enhance Efficiency & Improve Reliability for an Ammnonia Power Plant Revamping steam path and improving mechanical components with state-of-the art technology for more efficiency and reliability. Read reference on "Ammonia" application Power Increase for a Pulp & Paper plant Optimize your process and boost your turbine performance through changes in operating conditions. Read reference on "Pulp & Paper" application Lifetime Extension and Increased Availability for a Sugar Mill Minimize production loss and prolong the life of your turbine through the footprint approach and the replacement of core components. Read reference on "Sugar Mill" application Efficiency Improvement & Carbon Footprint Reduction for a Refinery Redesign steam path with state-of-the art technology reduces steam consumption, and presents decarbonization potential. Read reference on a "Refinery's" carbon footprint reduction Operational Flexibility for a Power Plant Adapt your existing steam turbine to continuously changing process demands. Read about how a "Power Plant" changed its operating conditions Are you looking to boost your profitability with sustainable solutions? Contact us Get more of your service Flexible Long-Term Service Learn more Remote Diagnostic Service (RDS) and Operational Service Desks Learn more Customer Energy Portal (CEP) Register Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025