DR-SST Footprint Solution Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Seamless Modernization: Small Steam Turbine Footprint Solution What is a Footprint Solution and how does it work? The Footprint Solution is a modernization service for Small Steam Turbines and their components. This solution ensures that while the turbine and its parts are upgraded, their dimensions and the positioning of the flanges remain unchanged, allowing for seamless integration into the existing infrastructure. The process: Existing turbine is completely removed Modernization of components: Customized technical solution for the entire steam path New turbine is inserted Download our newest Small Steam Turbine Footprint Solution brochure PDF (2 MB) Download Benefits of the Footprint Solution at a Glance Efficiency Improved energy efficiency thanks to state-of-the-art technology, e.g. blades, nozzle and guide ring. Reliability Turbine tailored to individual requirements with OEM's know-how and technical expertise. Availability Minimal training requirements and service interruption, as well as no problems with adapting existing piping and foundation. Financials Cost advantage compared to a new turbine thanks to the use of existing spare parts. Flexibility The footprint concept permits an eventual adaption to future system requirements in terms of flexibility. Power New, state-of-the-art turbine adapted to changed operating parameters, and optimal turbine performance. Get insights into existing footprint solution projects and their benefits: Footprint Unit for lower CO2 Emissions (Worthington Multi-stage) PDF (185 KB) Swap and Pop Worthington Single Stage Turbines PDF (154 KB) Equipment for Turbine Train Protection System: Gimpel Valves Mechanical Latched Valves (TMTTV, INTTV) Hydraulic Operated Valves (OOTTV, OOTV, OOPTV) Electro-Hydraulic Trip & Throttle Valve (EHTTV) Background: The primary function of Gimpel Mechanical Latched Valves is to function as an emergency closing safety valve that trips at oil pressure loss. It can also be used to slow-roll the steam turbine during start-up. The design incorporates more than 70 years of reliable operation and experience with proven technology. Standard features: ANSI normal pipe sizes (NPS) 2 to 10 and pressure classes 150 to 900 Tripping in 0.5 seconds Cast alloy steel valve body with bolted yoke (cover) available in straight-through, corner-body and tip-inlet flow arrangements Stainless steel, integral, replaceable, steam strainer basket Handwheel (provides manual throttling for use during start-up) Local trip lever These valves are also SIL 3 capable certified API 611 compliant Background: The primary function of Gimpel Hydrolic Operated Valves is to function as an emergency closing safety valve that trips at oil pressure loss. It can also be used to slow-roll the steam turbine during start-up. Standard features: SIL 3 capable certificated API 612 compliant Trips in 0.3 seconds or less ANSI NPS 3 to 24 and Class 150 to 2500 Stainless steel, integral, replaceable steam strainer basket Handwheel provides hydraulic assisted throttling for use during start-up Backseat design prevents steam loss when valve is full open Optional Features: Solenoid exerciser for remote on-line exercising Background: SE Gimpel electro-hydraulic trip throttle valve (EHTTV) is a microprocessor-controlled trip throttle valve with a selfcontained electro-hydraulic actuator. It is designed specifically for emergency shutdown and throttling on steam turbines. Standard features: ANSI NPS 3 to 24 and Class 300 to 2500 SIL 3 capable certificated Trips in 0.3 second or less Backseat design prevents steam loss when valve is full open Stainless steel, integral, replaceable steam strainer basket Self-contained control oil system API 612 solenoid trip block, with solenoids automatic diagnostics, installed Controls Enclosure provides interface for operational commands Optional features: Protective cover (for harsh climate installations) Integrated trip solenoid valves (solenoids to be tested in-line) Read more about Gimpel valves: Brochure Gimpel TMTTV PDF (246 KB) Brochure Gimpel OOTTV PDF (265 KB) Brochure Gimpel EHTTV PDF (1 MB) Spare Parts for Dresser-Rand Single Stage Turbines Steam turbine degradation losses increase over time, affecting efficiency and performance. Siemens Energy offers high-quality OEM spare parts to address this issue, with thousands of parts in stock and a strong manufacturing network for procuring made-to-order parts. These spare parts help provide forced outage protection, faster maintenance cycles, and increased reliability, adding value to your business. Siemens Energy can assist with specific spare parts needs or provide recommended spare parts lists for hundreds of units. Download the interactive Spare Parts Glossary with more details to learn more about spare parts for our single stage steam turbines. PDF (33 MB) Download Download Press Release Modernization for Ammonia Syngas Trains with Steam Turbine Drives September 1, 2024 PDF (262 KB) Download Discover more of our product and service offerings Modernization and Upgrades for Industrial Steam Turbines Read more Dresser-Rand Turbines Read more Customer Energy Portal (CEP) If you own or operate power generation equipment supplied by Siemens Energy, you may be eligible to access certain valuable on-line services. Register here MyAdvisor Evaluate your rotating equipment and access the latest service support offerings. Get insights here Questions regarding our offerings? Contact our experts. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025