Murray (D-R) Footprint in a Sugar Mill Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications January 14, 2021 2 min read Reference: Murray (D-R) Footprint in a Sugar Mill Story Drive industry decarbonization Drop-in replacement turbine with an upgraded Trip and Throttle valve IST D-R Legacy Murray R type Year of completion: 2017 Project Description The customer operated a Murray R type built in 1958. This turbine is driving a sugar mill. The case presented steam leaks and visual cracks, representing a safety issue for the customer. The turbine has been locally repaired (welded) many times, and no improvement has been presented. They contacted Siemens Energy to get a drop-in replacement steam turbine with an upgraded Trip and Throttle valve. Solution Siemens Energy recommended installing a drop-in footprint replacement to match all piping connections. The turbine includes an upgraded Trip and Throttle valve (Gimpel). The turbine is also interchangeable with other six units, which the customer operates so that he won’t have to maintain different spare components. Customer Value The turbine was satisfactorily installed in 1 week, and no changes were required at the site. The customer has a new turbine that is much more reliable and safer turbine. Related links Siemens myAdvisor.com Contact Get in touch Read more September 24, 2020 3 min read Reference: Front admission (SST-600) footprint turbine September 25, 2020 2 min read Footprint: New front admission steam turbine November 29, 2020 2 min read Reference: More Power and Reliability with a SST-400 revamp See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025