Comprehensive I&C lifecycle services for power generation efficiency Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications I&C lifecycle and system maintenance  for power generation With a lifetime of 20 to 40 years the lifecycle span of different types of power generation units exceeds the lifecycle of control systems, which are typically in place for a maximum of 15 years. IT components have even shorter lifecycles of about five years. Even the best system starts aging from day one. The only way to keep your distributed control system (DCS) at top performance and cybersecurity levels is keeping it updated and well-maintained . Keeping your DCS at top performance and cybersecurity levels Smart lifecycle concepts and continuous system maintenance ensure that the instrumentation and control (I&C) system remains state-of-the art, flexible and already accounts for future options. Our Omnivise T3000 I&C technology is developed with a long-term horizon and accompanied by support throughout the asset life for long-term stability through a future-proof system. This includes upgrades, migrations, and concepts for the transition to new systems – from the first day of operations . All of our I&C services are completely scalable and may range from simple access to our analytics tools to an all-round carefree package – you decide what you need . Do you want to learn more about our I&C services? Contact us Long-term service support for decades With more than 4,000 installations worldwide and 600.000 megawatt (MW) installed generator output controlled by T3000, Omnivise T3000 and its predecessor systems have been the control systems for the power industry for decades now. The T3000 control system has been continuously evolving, but one thing remained constant: We have always provided long-term support for the energy market . Our position as OEM (original equipment manufacturer) of the Omnivise T3000 control technology gives us full control over its lifecycle and maintenance concepts which ensure that this I&C system remains state-of-the art and flexible. I&C services accompany operations throughout the entire asset life. This includes preventive and reactive services during the active phase of a T3000 release version as well as support and concepts for the transition to new technologies during system maintenance phases. With Omnivise T3000, different generations of control systems can be operated in parallel. You decide when to upgrade to the latest release. Our I&C lifecycle and system maintenance service offerings System and security patching I&C updates via online patching Since control systems are heavily software based, having the latest system and security patches installed is essential to keep the system up to date. Software and patterns are checked upfront on multiple T3000 software and hardware versions to make sure there is no negative impact on operational technology. Only approved and (if necessary) adapted software and patterns are released for provision. Updates or upgrades are possible at any time, online, during normal operation with no downtime. The Omnivise T3000 patch management is designed to keep every aspect of the solution is automatically at best practice level to ensure reliable, uninterrupted operation. System software patches, security patches and malware pattern updates keep the cybersecure system Omnivise T3000 secure and stable in the long-term and contribute to enduring compliance with cybersecurity regulations without any downtime. Learn more about our I&C cybersecurity services Updates and upgrades of the I&C system Control system updates and upgrades to later versions Even if a system is always maintained and kept up to date, there comes a time when it makes sense to switch to a new control technology version. This may be due to obsolescence of hardware or software or for cybersecurity reasons. We have always emphasized that the timing of a system upgrade should remain flexible: There is always a longer period when the maintenance phase for the previous system overlaps with the active phase of the latest control system version. Due to its remote concept and redundant system configuration, Omnivise T3000 provides online patching capabilities and even online upgradeability. If downtimes are required at all for upgrading the control system, these are short and easily fit into inspection cycles of the main equipment. Migration and modernization of control system Step-by-step transition and I&C replacement I&C migration concepts bring power plants equipped with TELEPERM ME or SPPA-T2000 into step with the latest generation of I&C technology as an alternative to full modernization. The process involves updating existing I&C systems gradually with Omnivise T3000 components, with a significant proportion of installed equipment retained. In the migration of your existing system to Omnivise T3000 we distinguish between the operator control and monitoring (HMI) level and the automation (AS) level. These two levels do not have to be migrated at the same time. First up for migration is always the HMI level. The second step, which can be implemented whenever you are ready, involves the migration of the automation platform. The basic control engineering data from SPPA-T2000 is captured by a special tool in a largely automated procedure and then converted for Omnivise T3000. Migration strategies also cover electrical system components. Tailored solutions for the modernization of the electrical balance of plant (eBoP) requirement in power plants help to bring about a more homogeneous electrical and I&C system landscape. Tackling the migration process in stages keeps outlay low and minimizes conversion times. Modernization of third-party I&C systems are our daily business and are always planned according to production needs. I&C Monitors and Advisors (ICMA) Preventive services backed by cloud-based analytics I&C Monitors and Advisors (ICMA) are powerful digital services which are based on cloud-based data analytics and substantially support DCS maintenance. Automatic data analysis and interpretation sets the basis for all control system maintenance activities: They provide transparency about which components and software versions are actually installed in the plant. I&C lifecycle for example analyzes the component lifecycles and indicates its status and spare parts availability. Based on this information, timely planning leads to optimized spare parts management. In a daily health check, I&C condition monitors your plant control system equipment to identify weak points. It then provides recommendations around maintenance and repair works to plan way ahead and to ensure components and software remain at peak availability. Learn more about I&C Monitors & Advisors Regional I&C service network for on-site support To keep power generation going, it is vital to keep your control system up and running. Scheduled, systematic checks on the health status of the DCS are an essential lever to achieve that. Our experts perform about 160 checks per unit : Thin clients, servers, the automation system, and network connections, in other words all essential systems and components within Omnivise T3000 are covered by these inspections. Even though a huge number of I&C checks can be done remotely , support on-site is occasionally needed, for example if components have to be replaced. The Siemens Energy Controls & Digitalization department has more than 1,000 service and support experts who are located around the globe and provide I&C spare parts service or perform condition checks, functional checks or system diagnostics on-site. Extensive global presence of Omnivise T3000 service and support network Lifecycle services only for power plants? Find out more about our lifecycle management for offshore wind and how we are shaping our services around renewables! Download now! Further offers and products Power Academy Customer Energy Portal The Power Academy is the hub of all controls and electrical related trainings within Siemens Energy. Offering a broad variety from classroom trainings to on-site and virtual reality (VR) trainings, you can decide what best fits your business needs. Learn more The Customer Energy Portal is your one-stop source for information about your Siemens Energy portfolio. It offers access to a multitude of support tools in an always available digital platform. It is a secure online platform, that gives you 24/7 access to sites specific up-to-date information. Learn more Contact us! At Siemens Energy, we built our Services with a focus on minimizing downtimes while maximizing performance, cut costs, and commitment to continuous improvement. We provide a comprehensive service for instrumentation, power plant automation and electrical systems. With our experience to support power plants from cradle to grave, we offer intelligent service concepts for plant maintenance throughout the entire lifecycle. Curious? Contact us! Send an e-mail Related content Control system services Learn more Omnivise T3000 Learn more I&C Monitors and Advisors Learn more Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read TE-TO Osijek, Croatia: Reduced CO2 emissions and significant energy savings with variable speed electric drive 3 min read SWE Energie, Germany: Up-to-the-minute power generation with Omnivise T3000 control system 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation 3 min read NCPA, United States: DCS automation solution enhances their geothermal operations See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025