SIEAERO Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SIEAERO: Digital service for overhead power lines The SIEAERO digital inspection service combines several sensor modalities in one fully integrated solution that revolutionizes the execution of overhead line inspection. The various inspection routines are bundled into a single flight campaign in which all necessary data is acquired. SIEAERO supports different aspects of managing an overhead line covering inspection services, asset management as well providing accurate As-Build data to support planning & construction activities. The combination of different services that includes data acquisition, surveying, asset inventory & asset inspection, clearance analysis for the right of way, as well as an interactive digital representation of the overhead line as digital twin are part of the solution. SIEAERO is all about data value making virtual powerline inspections as reliable and accessible as possible. All-in-One Sensor System AI-driven data Insights Ready to Use The SIEAERO Digital Inspection Service is a revolutionary solution that efficiently inspects overhead power lines by combining several sensor modalities. With SIEAERO, all inspection routines are integrated into a single flight campaign, where all the necessary data is gathered. The system uses a range of cameras and sensors, including a high-end LIDAR sensor (3D laser scanning) with a high-grade IMU, various color cameras for visual inspection, thermal infrared for hot spot detection, and a UV sensor for corona discharge. Complementing the high-end data acquisition system, SIEAERO also offers extensive data processing and analysis services applying state-of-the-art technologies in artificial intelligence and machine learning to evaluate the data at scale. SIEAERO Smart Analytics software developed by Siemens Energy recognizes various overhead line components and assets such as pylons and conductor cables. The software automatically creates an inventory list of the components and generates a three-dimensional representation of the entire overhead line, including the surrounding line corridor and vegetation. The SIEAERO Analytics & AI Engine is powered by algorithms that can identify damaged components like broken insulators or defective vibration dampers. Additionally, it can assess conditions metrically, such as determining the clearances between conductors and surrounding vegetation. SIEAERO focuses on providing accessible and contextual results. Along with conventional and exportable reports and data formats, the inspection results are also available digitally through a browser-based interactive web interface. This interface shows geo-referenced findings and images, which users can review. This means that customers will have access to a digital twin of their overhead line. All-In-One: SIEAERO Smart Analytics Platform Surveying GIS, terrain elevation, 2D & 3D maps Lidar classification HD photos (towers, spans, and surroundings overview) Inventory Tailored equipment catalog AI-powered and supervised by energy experts Inspection Defects & condition-based assessment Visual & Thermal & Vegetation AI-powered and supervised by energy experts Clearance Assets environment, vegetation, and surroundings management Smart aerial powerline inspection, data use within smart analytics platform & user experience E2ES with SIEAERO solutions SIEAERO drone and helicopter exhibition Bayernwerk Netz in cooperation with SIEAERO Get in touch with SIEAERO right now Contact us SIEAERO Datasheet SIEAERO PDF (456 KB) Services for power transmission Read more Services for breakers and switchgear Read more Services for transformers Read more Services for HVDC Read more Services for FACTS Read more Services for offshore grid connections Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025