Transformer services Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Services for Transformers Why Siemens Energy? From power transformers to HVDC transformers, these key components are crucial for a seamless, uninterrupted power supply. Despite their ruggedness and reliability, they are susceptible to aging and wear over their decades of use. Transformer Services - a strategic way to increase value. Transformer Services allow for targeted expenditure planning and controlled timing of new investments, avoiding unforeseen outages and minimizing planned downtimes. It also reduces environmental impact while maximizing transformer availability. This service concept applies to all transformers in your network, irrespective of age, manufacturer, or power. We service all generations of transformers. Transformer Services are designed to prevent unplanned downtimes and optimize planned maintenance measures. We recognize that even planned service interruptions have increasingly shorter windows. Our solution includes mobile technologies and methods, with expert teams that provide on-site support. From oil-drying systems to high-voltage testing stations, our mobile repair workshops are fast, flexible, and can be integrated into your operations. This complements the performance spectrum of Siemens Energy repair facility, enhancing service reliability. Contact us Installation & Commissioning Installation & Commissioning Siemens Energy is your trusted partner for transformer installation and commissioning. Our global team of experts ensures your transformers are integrated flawlessly into your power network, with a focus on safety, reliability, and performance. We provide swift and strategic access to installation sites, leveraging our international presence for local-level execution. Our process is thorough yet efficient, encompassing careful planning, precise installation, and rigorous testing to guarantee optimal operation. With Siemens Energy, you benefit from competitive pricing and the high-quality service synonymous with our name. Trust us to energize your infrastructure with expertly commissioned transformers that stand the test of time. Installation & Commissioning reference project Repair and maintenance Repair and maintenance Consultancy & advisory At Siemens Energy, we are dedicated to providing an extensive array of preventive maintenance services that are crucial for the optimal performance and longevity of your assets. Our offerings encompass DIAG EA – our premier expert condition assessment, augmented by our specialized diagnostic services (DIAG TRF). This suite of services includes expert consultation, comprehensive oil testing, and meticulous electrical and high voltage onsite assessments. To further protect your equipment and ensure its peak functionality, we offer Transformer oil regeneration (REG), oil drying (DRY), and moisture monitoring solutions, all designed to proactively prevent damage. Beyond on-site services, our local, certified professionals are equipped to conduct in-depth analyses and develop tailored repair strategies that include both on-site and factory repair options. We can perform immediate failure analysis and facilitate swift on-site transformer repairs through our advanced mobile facilities. Additionally, for more complex refurbishments or upgrades, our specialized factory repair services offer a controlled environment that ensures the highest standards of quality and efficiency. Trust Siemens Energy to deliver unparalleled service, minimizing downtime and maximizing the performance of your energy systems." Diagnostic service Transformer Services offers a Diagnostic service (DIAG) that enhances transformer reliability and longevity via thorough diagnostics for single units or fleets. With three service levels, customers receive inspections, diagnostics, high voltage tests, and expert evaluations for clear and informed decisions. Detailed reports from seasoned professionals include actionable recommendations to prevent failures and boost transformer performance. DIAG helps optimize maintenance, prevent outages, and increase operational safety and security. The DIAG portfolio is complemented by helpful digital solutions creating additional value: The Diagnostic Services Dashboard provides full transparency on the condition of transformers and entire fleets and is exclusively available for DIAG customers. The Direct Current Detector app transforms any smartphone into a DC-detection device. Open the "Direct Current Detector" with your smartphone browser and get a free indication if your transformer suffers from DC bias. DC-Detector App Learn more about Proactive DC Compensation Oil analysis Our services include insulating oil analyses and material testing, which involve diagnostic test procedures for ageing analysis, condition detection, and new state assessments of oils and insulating materials. The lifespan of a transformer depends on the ageing of the insulating materials, and our services aim to recognize material degradation and extend transformer lifespan through trend analysis and targeted maintenance. The Material Testing Laboratory for Transformers offers comprehensive services, including sample collection, analysis, and assessment, to identify ageing processes and ensure reliable performance. Visit our Test laboratory for transformer materials Test Laboratory for Transformer Materials Consultancy & advisory With diagnostic information in hand, the next critical step is its interpretation and application. Siemens Energy offers expert consultancy services to ensure you leverage your diagnostic results to their fullest potential. Our approach is comprehensive; we consider your entire fleet of transformers, regardless of age or manufacturer. This inclusive strategy provides you with a robust foundation for making informed decisions regarding replacement investments, maintenance, or asset value preservation. Factory repair Depending on the initial situation, it may be expedient from an economic standpoint to have an older or damaged transformer overhauled at one of our Siemens Energy production locations. Based on our experience, an overhaul restores transformer availability for an extended time with no restrictions in operating reliability. There are advantages over the production of a new transformer. An overhaul and restoration are usually significantly more cost-effective and time-efficient. Our customers also experience significantly shorter outage times. On-site repair In many cases, there are no time slots for repair service or it is not  cost-effective to bring the transformer to one of our manufacturing plants for repair because of the necessary heavy transport. In these cases we can offer our customers on-site repair. An individual solution may be elaborated depending on the existing infrastructure. REG - Oil regeneration REG , the online regeneration technology, can clean aged or corrosive transformer oil, restore its dielectric properties, and increase the transformer availability. Regeneration processes requires special equipment, high competence, and long-time experience of staff. Siemens Energy operators have experience in online regeneration of more than 300 transformers with different design, connections and at various ambient temperatures. REG , removes degradation products and corrosive compounds from transformer oil during normal transformer operations. This not only ensures operational efficiency but also offers substantial economic and ecological advantages. DRY - Oil drying Power transformers degrade over time, with moisture in the insulating paper hastening this process. This moisture can come from insufficient drying during production, environmental damage, or the degradation process itself. A single oil treatment won't have a lasting effect as 98% of the moisture is in the insulating paper. Siemens Energy Transformer Service method effectively slows down the unavoidable aging process within your transformers, thus extending their lifespan. Our widely recognized DRY is a stationary and continuous transformer drying system. Modernization & ugrades Modernization & upgrades In addition to our repair and maintenance services, we provide modernization of hardware and software with state-of-the-art versions. We also offer retrofitting of individual components to maintain delivery capacity, as well as overhauling transformers to ensure optimal functionality. Furthermore, we provide system-wide feature upgrades and performance enhancements to meet evolving operational needs. Bushing replacement Bushings in transformers need replacement due to natural wear and tear, which can lead to deterioration from environmental and mechanical factors. As insulation materials age, their effectiveness diminishes, increasing the risk of electrical faults. Additionally, damaged bushings may leak oil, compromising their insulating properties. Upgrading to modern components not only addresses these issues but also enhances the overall efficiency and reliability of the transformer. Regular inspection and timely replacement of bushings are essential to maintain the optimal performance and longevity of transformers. Retrofit Transformers require retrofit services to rejuvenate aging infrastructure, enhance capacity for increased operational demands, and improve energy efficiency. By upgrading components and integrating modern technologies, retrofitting ensures reliable, safe, and cost-effective transformer performance, meeting both current and future needs. Winding modernization Transformers need winding modernization to maintain optimal performance and reliability. Over time, windings can degrade due to electrical stress, thermal cycling, and insulation breakdown. Modernizing the windings enhances efficiency, reduces energy losses, and extends the transformer’s operational life. By integrating advanced materials and technologies, Siemens Energy ensures your transformers meet the highest standards of excellence and sustainability, ready to face the demands of the future. Ext. parts refurbishment Transformers require external parts refurbishment to maintain optimal performance and reliability. Over time, external components such as bushings, radiators, and cooling fans can deteriorate due to environmental exposure and mechanical stress. Refurbishing these parts ensures the transformer operates efficiently, prevents potential failures, and extends its operational life. Siemens Energy’s expert refurbishment services guarantee that your transformers remain in top condition, delivering consistent and reliable power Spare parts services, service programs and trainings Spare parts services, service programs and trainings Spare parts services Our Spare Parts Program ensures top-quality parts that meet OEM specifications, leveraging continuous technological and material improvements. Our customized outage planning and support provide timely delivery of recommended spare parts for maintenance. In case of an outage, our specialists are available to assist you before, during, and after shutdown phases, ensuring seamless operations. Service programs On request, our transformer service provides you with telephone support 24 hours a day,  7 days a week. Our Support Center is your contact point, processing incoming calls and forwarding them to our specialists and technicians. We are pleased to offer our customers individual telephone service and on-call contracts upon request. Trainings We are pleased to pass on the necessary knowledge to our customers to ensure trouble-free operation of a specific transformer. The training instruction is adapted to customer requirements. Downloads Specific topics References Transformer lifecycle management - Brochure PDF (3 MB) Download Transformatoren Service - Broschüre (Deutsch) PDF (3 MB) Download Transformer DC-Detector App - Manual PDF (546 KB) Download Retrofit - seismic protection Installation & Commissioning in Venice Dive deeper into the world of transfomers Power transformers Services for power transmission Read more Services for breakers and switchgear Read more Micro substation Read more Services for HVDC Read more Services for FACTS Read more Services for offshore grid connections Read more Get in contact with our customer support Do you need help on a concrete project? Do you need a quote for any of our products or solutions? Do you need support for your installed equipment? Do you have a technical question? Do you need something totally different? You can contact us 24/7. We are looking forward to your request. Contact form Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025