Cyber Security Services Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Cyber security services for HVDC and FACTS Why Siemens Energy? Siemens Energy Grid Technologies Service is at the forefront of Cyber Security for HVDC and FACTS, adopting a thorough and proactive stance to counter rising cyber threats. Recognizing the dire implications of cyber attacks on power transmission systems, we stress the importance of perpetual alertness and adaptability to tackle the ever-changing threats across the system's entire lifecycle. Our dedication to this cause fortifies the resilience and dependability of power transmission systems, positioning Siemens Energy as a distinguished leader in protecting critical infrastructure from cyber threats. Contact us In order to support its customers in the face of the growing risk of cyber threats, Siemens Energy has developed a comprehensive cyber security service portfolio for HVDC and FACTS. The service portfolio comprises different steps to strive for cyber security. These services include the identification of cyber vulnerabilities; the protection of all systems from cyber threats, including a fast service response to cyber incidents, and finally consulting and awareness trainings. Siemens Energy Cyber Security Portfolio A cyber security service portfolio you can count on Siemens Energy offers Bronze, Silver, and Gold services for security patch management, providing a comprehensive solution. Leveraging its expertise as an original equipment manufacturer, we offer customized patch management tailored to our customers' specific HVDC/FACTS systems and software. With a team of highly experienced cyber security experts and direct access to vendors and information sources, Siemens Energy ensures optimal system protection from cyber threats. The Bronze version includes monthly newsletters on available security patches relevant to customers' systems. They inform users about the impact and criticality of vulnerabilities and possible solutions. Additional Web links to vendor's Web pages for security patch downloads are also provided. The Bronze service provides valuable information to keep the customer up-to-date and aware about cyber threats but without pre-testing. The advanced Silver version includes testing security patches on a Siemens Energy generic testbed and, if available, on the customer's maintenance and training simulator (MTS). The generic testbed is a Siemens Energy facility designed for HVDC/FACTS systems for testing purposes, but it may not cover the full configuration of all customer operational systems. If testing on the testbed is not feasible, alternative mitigation measures will be evaluated. Additionally, if the customer has an MTS, further testing will be conducted on it as part of the Silver service, providing close-to-operational system testing scope and results. The highest-level Gold version comprises the installation of tested security patches on the site of the operational system during scheduled yearly outages on a regular basis. This includes preparation, secure backup, patch installation, basic testing, and documentation. More information about Cyber Security for HVDC and FACTS A cyber security service portfolio you can count on To protect critical infrastructure, many governments around the world are imposing increasingly stringent cybersecurity regulations on transmission system operators. Standardized cybersecurity certifications will help our customers to demonstrate the cybersecurity of their assets to regulators, insurers, investors and the public and simplifies proof of compliance with the respective regulatory requirements. Siemens Energy is the only major supplier in the field of HVDC and FACTS solutions holding the IEC 62443 2-4 and 3-3 certificate for our reference architecture. IEC 62443 is the leading international standard for the IT security for industrial communication networks. It provides a holistic security framework for Industrial Automation & Control Systems (IACS). TÜV SÜD Certificate: Security Program for the Blueprint "High-Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) TÜV SÜD Certificate: Security Program for the Blueprint "Flexible AC Transmission Systems (FACTS) Services for power transmission Securing fault-free operation of high-voltage switchgears and products for a reliable power supply Read more Services for flexible AC transmission systems (FACTS) Ensuring safety, reliability, and availability for flexible AC transmission systems throughout the entire lifecycle Read more Services for high-voltage direct current (HVDC) Ensuring availability, efficiency, and security of high-voltage DC transmission systems for decades Read more Get in contact with our customer support Do you need help on a concrete project? Do you need a quote for any of our products or solutions? Do you need support for your installed equipment? Do you have a technical question? Do you need something totally different? You can contact us 24/7. We are looking forward to your request. Contact form Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025