Siemens Energy sells Trench to sharpen portfolio Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy sells Trench to sharpen portfolio Press release October 12, 2023 Berlin As part of the consistent focusing of its portfolio, Siemens Energy has agreed to sell its Trench business to investment firm Triton. Both parties have agreed not to disclose the purchase price. Closing is expected, subject to approval of the authorities and necessary consultations, in the first half of 2024. The sale is also still subject to the approval of the employee representatives. Employees have already been informed about the sale in a global staff meeting. Earlier this year Siemens Energy began the strategic move to carve out and separately manage Trench, which specializes in high-voltage grid components including bushings, instrument transformers and coil products, sold under the brands HSP and Trench. The Trench business has a strong market position, this sale is one of many strategic decisions to sharpen Siemens Energy’s focus on its core business. Trench has locations across Europe including Germany, Austria, France, Bulgaria and Italy with additional operational footprint in China and Canada. Once the closing has taken place, its 2,400 employees and 9 factory locations, will transfer to the new owners. Tim Holt, member of the Managing Board for Siemens Energy: “We are positioning Siemens Energy for the future, which means sharpening our portfolio, simplifying our business and rationalizing how and where we can invest in innovation. The Trench business is a small medium enterprise with ambitious growth plans which will be best realized under different ownership. The transaction is an optimal solution for the business and crucially for the employees, as it is for the transformation of Siemens Energy.” Contact Danielle Turton Press Spokesperson Grid Technologies danielle.turton@siemens-energy.com +44 7808 827577 @TurtonDanielle Danielle Turton Siemens Energy sells Trench to sharpen portfolio October 13, 2023 PDF (85 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 94,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025