Siemens Energy delivers technology for seventh offshore wind farm connection in the North Sea Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy delivers technology for seventh offshore wind farm connection in the North Sea Press release August 11, 2020 Munich Low-loss transmission of wind energy for 1.1 million households Further contribution toward decarbonizing energy supplies Siemens Energy is supplying the high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) power transmission technology for a further offshore connection in the German North Sea. A corresponding contract was just signed by the German-Dutch network operator TenneT and the BorWin5 Offshore Consortium, consisting of Siemens Energy and Dragados Offshore. In 2025, the platform BorWin epsilon, which is part of the BorWin5 project, will begin the low-loss transmission of electricity produced by the EnBW He Dreiht wind farm off the island of Borkum to the Garrel/Ost converter station around 230 kilometers distant. The transmission capacity of 900 megawatts is calculated to serve over 1.1 million households with electricity. The project is a further contribution toward decarbonizing Germany’s energy supply. BorWin5 marks the seventh HVDC offshore grid connection project undertaken by Siemens Energy in Germany with TenneT. Together with its partners, Siemens Energy has already built and installed five offshore HVDC connections in the German North Sea for TenneT. The DolWin6 and BorWin5 projects are currently being implemented. “We are especially pleased that we can again join with TenneT to make an important contribution to the decarbonization of Germany’s energy supply. The seventh order in the German North Sea underscores the great confidence in our HVDC technology,” emphasizes Beatrix Natter, Executive Vice President of the Transmission Division at Siemens Energy. “When DolWin6 and BorWin5 begin operation, we’ll have installed a total transmission capacity for 5.6 gigawatts of wind power in the German North Sea. This could supply around seven million German households with green electricity.” The scope of supply for Siemens Energy and its Spanish partner Dragados Offshore S.A. includes the turnkey construction and installation of the offshore platform in the North Sea and the converter station on land. The offshore converter station will convert the three-phase alternating current produced by the wind turbines into direct current with a voltage of ±320 kilovolts(kV) for low-loss transmission to land. The shoreside converter station in Garrel/Ost will then convert the electricity back into three-phase alternating current for feeding into Germany’s power grid. Siemens Energy will supply the HVDC technology required for the project and build the shoreside station, while Dragados will be responsible for the design, procurement, construction and installation of the offshore converter platform. Contact Siemens Energy Media Relations Team mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (187 KB) Download Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens group, which has been working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands of industry and society for more than 150 years. With planned stock listing, Siemens’ energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future. It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a comprehensive portfolio for utilities, independent power producers, transmission system operators, the oil and gas industry, and other energy-intensive industries. With its products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central and distributed thermal power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the energy transformation, including storage and sector-coupling solutions. The majority stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future-oriented portfolio. With its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, Siemens Energy will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers on their path to a more sustainable future. With around 90,000 employees worldwide, Siemens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and tomorrow. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025