Innovating grid technology Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications December 9, 2024 3 min read Direct current circuit breakers make power grids more robust by Matthias Foehr Innovation Sustainability Matthias Foehr and his team know the power of cross-cultural collaboration
for innovation. By combining German and Japanese engineering
know-how, they’re paving the way for direct current (DC) power grids
with fewer losses, fewer emissions, more affordability – and a lot more
renewable energy. Matthias tells us how. “ Collaboration and complementary technological solutions are more than just the sum of their parts. Matthias Foehr Vice President Lead Engineering – Grid Solutions, Siemens Energy I’m going through my notes after a meeting with our partners at Mitsubishi Electric. My journey at Siemens Energy began as a working student, followed by a doctorate and various roles in engineering and technology consulting. Now, I lead a team that’s pioneering the future of Power transmission , and my days are filled with meetings involving cross-continental collaboration and strategic planning to develop revolutionary new DC grid solutions . Our goal with Mitsubishi Electric is to create complementary DC circuit breakers that enable the use of high-voltage direct current (HVDC) grids with multiple connection points. It’s a key piece in transforming renewable energy transmission over long distances – making it more robust and affordable. Watch the video: But the technical challenges are big. Traditional point-to-point HVDC connections are common enough – creating a hub with multiple HDVC connection points, however, requires sophisticated DC circuit breaker technology . So at Siemens Energy, we’re developing ultra-fast power electronic breakers that interrupt current flow within less than 0.1 milliseconds, while Mitsubishi Electric is focusing on hybrid circuit breakers with lower power losses. Both systems have their advantages, but taken together they make operating large-scale renewable energy resources far more efficient. For example, back in Europe, we’re planning on putting the first HVDC grid hub into operation by 2032, in collaboration with German transmission system operators – and the impact will be huge, reducing transmission losses by some 30 to 50% compared to an alternating current (AC) system . Japan offers an ability to blend cutting-edge technology with traditional values, says Foehr. Siemens Energy and Mitsubishi Electric’s complementary DC circuit breakers are key to transforming the way we transmit renewable energy. Innovation is a departure from business as usual This combined approach between Siemens Energy and Mitsubishi Electric marks a departure from conventional industry practice, where companies typically develop closed systems for the market. As power grids evolve, our work exemplifies how collaboration and complementary technological solutions are more than just the sum of their parts – and it’s partnerships like these that are going to get us to a more sustainable world. I’m captivated by Japan’s ability to blend cutting-edge technology with traditional values – an appreciation that’s proved valuable in my trips to Tokyo. But the partnership also has an impact on my life outside work. In my free time, I’m currently learning to speak Japanese. And I’m assembling a LEGO model of – what else? – a Japanese castle. Sustainability at Siemens Energy We have made significant progress on our journey toward a sustainable future: Explore our achievements and ongoing efforts. Learn more Combined video and picture credits: Christopher Jue Read more December 11, 2024 8 min read Strategic partnerships for sustainable energy December 9, 2024 3 min read We prioritize people to achieve Zero Harm December 4, 2023 3 min read Our people fuel sustainability December 4, 2023 3 min read Our partnerships innovate the energy transition See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025