Talent attraction and retention Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications December 4, 2023 3 min read Our people fuel sustainability Sustainability Stories In a volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous world, we attract talent looking for work with purpose. They are drawn by our decarbonization activities but also by our culture that promotes collaboration, diversity, career progress and creativity as we strive to make a great place to work. “ Employees want to know how they add value and what’s the driving purpose for them and the company. Sarah Tabet Head of Human Resources, Middle East Hub, Siemens Energy If there’s one thing above all others that employees are looking for in a company today, it’s purpose. They want to know that the job they are doing, or will do, is making a positive difference in the world. That makes hiring even easier at Siemens Energy because a big part of our work is focused on decarbonizing along the energy value chain. In fact, our sustainability story is sometimes an even bigger factor among prospective talent than our position as a leader in the field. Watch the video: “Employees want to work in a culture where they can be themselves and be creative,” says Sarah Tabet, Head of Human Resources, Middle East Hub, Siemens Energy. “Employees want to know how they add value and what’s the driving purpose for them and the company. They want interesting work development opportunities in a safe and pleasant environment where people care and where they can make a difference to society.” Our leaders help shape this culture by being humble and focused on the development of others, by working in collaboration with others, and by igniting change – change toward an ever greener and more inclusive world. And our employees are proud to work for a company focused on reducing CO2 emissions. It’s an important part of the benefits and values that make up our employee value proposition (EVP), but not the only part. Offering interesting career development opportunities in an environment where people care is a key requirement for attracting talent, says Tabet. Employees want to work in a culture where they can be themselves and be creative. We belong together Sustainability isn’t just about the environment – it’s also about people and how we do business. Which is why diversity and inclusion at Siemens Energy is not a “nice to have”. It’s an absolute business requirement. Diversity not only helps companies attract and retain employees, it’s also crucial to delivering truly innovative solutions in a world that is volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous (VUCA). For example, we focus on improving our gender diversity across the Middle East by partnering with universities who promote women engineers or women in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) to attract and develop young potentials into Siemens Energy. Our employees hail from, and work in, countries with diverse environments, cultures, laws and regulations. This requires our HR teams to develop a deep understanding of the uniqueness of each market, and adjust and adapt our policies and practices as required. Across all these diverse markets, our employee value proposition helps us attract and retain the talent that allows us to be innovative, agile and versatile enough to achieve our environmental, social and economic sustainability goals – both today and far into the future. Sustainability at Siemens Energy We have made significant progress towards our sustainability targets and continue to improve our sustainability performance. Learn more Start your career at Siemens Energy now Join us in our mission to create a sustainable, reliable and affordable energy future. Whether you're an engineer, a technician, or a business professional, we have opportunities for you. Explore our job openings and apply now Note: Siemens Energy pursues the goal of an inclusive corporate culture and, in doing so,  follows all applicable laws. To the extent any statements, goals, policies, or practices articulated in this global website conflict with the anti- discrimination laws of the United States (“US”), the US entity will follow US law and not the policy. Siemens Energy, Inc. in the US does not make any employment decisions based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, qualified individuals with disabilities, or any other category protected by applicable law. Combined picture and video credits: Gleb Osipov Read more April 10, 2025 How to optimize the aluminum supply chain network? Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq December 11, 2024 8 min read Strategic partnerships for sustainable energy December 9, 2024 3 min read We prioritize people to achieve Zero Harm See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025