Innovative partnerships in robotics Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications December 4, 2023 3 min read Our partnerships innovate the energy transition Sustainability Stories Drones, robots and artificial intelligence: We know the secret to keeping the energy transition on the edge cutting of technology – and it all lies in fostering dynamic collaborations with likeminded partners that help keep the flow of talent, information and innovation coming. “ When we talk about sustainability at Siemens Energy, it’s not just a word. It’s a value and a direction. Jaydeep Naha General Manager – Digital Solutions and Project Execution, Siemens Energy In the past, we often stayed on the cutting edge by creating everything on our own. But today, the development of partner ecosystem with companies that share our values and goals allows for innovative and dynamic collaborations that benefit the energy transition. Our Siemens Energy Ventures team works with a variety of young companies, bringing their expertise, ideas and new technology into our organization and scaling them up for impact. Forming partnerships like these allows us to speed up the process of creating innovative technologies that make the energy business more sustainable and help mitigate climate change. For example, partnering with the autonomous robotics company ANYbotics left our engineers free to focus on the development of a digital brain that allows robots to move through power plants all by themselves. Watch the video: If we had developed the robots ourselves as well, the project would have taken us much longer. The collaboration let us make autonomous power plant robots market-ready much faster. Using robots with a digital brain and easy online accessibility, means that power plants no longer need to be shut down during maintenance and health and safety risks for employees are drastically minimized. This is what we are developing in our Focus Field of Action – Condition Based Service Intervention under the leadership of Jaydeep Naha, who is also a partner in the Siemens Energy Ventures. Forming partnerships allows us to speed up the process of creating innovative technologies. Partnering with ANYbotics left our engineers free to focus on the development of a digital brain that allows robots to move through power plants all by themselves. Innovations have a direct impact on sustainability Of course, the innovation we’re doing isn’t only about “robotics”. It’s about creating the asset management of the future, where robots, drones and AI enhance the lifespan of energy assets – strengthening them with predictive maintenance, reducing downtime, hazards and wastage, and limiting leakage with early and systematic detection. And we do all this with an emphasis on a circular economy, reusing materials to the maximum extent possible. These kinds of innovation have a direct impact on sustainability. Our ground robots are equipped with environmental sensors that can assess air and water quality, monitor emissions, detect pollutants and help utilities track their environmental impact so that they can better protect our ecosystems. Robotics is just one example of how partnerships and innovation are making the energy business more sustainable on the ground. But we’re in the air too. We’ve partnered with a manufacturer of unmanned drones that can carry out system inspections on transmission lines using our multi-sensor system SIEAERO. The drones replace piloted helicopter inspections and allow us to capture in a single flight inspection data that can be later analyzed with AI to identify changes or damages since the last inspection. “When we talk about sustainability at Siemens Energy,” says Jaydeep Naha, General Manager of Digital Solutions and Project Execution at Siemens Energy, “it’s not just a word. It’s a value and a direction – and the work we do here moves the needle day by day.” Sustainability at Siemens Energy We have made significant progress towards our sustainability targets and continue to improve our sustainability performance. Learn more Combined picture and video credits: Bali Abhishek and Siemens Energy Read more April 10, 2025 How to optimize the aluminum supply chain network? Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq December 11, 2024 8 min read Strategic partnerships for sustainable energy December 9, 2024 3 min read We prioritize people to achieve Zero Harm See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025