Successful commissioning of Power Substation for Solar Power Plant in Vietnam Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Successful commissioning of Power Substation for Solar Power Plant in Vietnam Press release October 22, 2020 Vietnam A 500kV power substation as part of the 450MW solar power plant has been successfully energized in Ninh Thuan province, Vietnam The commissioning was a remarkable feat delivered under a very tight timeline amidst CoVid-19 restrictions and quarantine The developing province’s power transmission system and surrounding areas will now benefit from this infrastructure to help shore up abundant renewable energy projects In Thuan Nam district of Ninh Thuan province, Vietnam, households and businesses now receive a boost in power transmission following the successful commissioning and energization of a 500kV power substation. The substation consists of 500kV power transformers, circuit breakers, instrument transformers, coils and distribution transformers - all supplied by Siemens Energy. The power transformers are the Sensformer® units, which, fitted with connectivity and intelligence, offer access to real-time digital data for optimized operation. This commissioning had proven to be a remarkable feat by the local Siemens Energy project team having accomplished it within an extremely tight timeline in order to meet the Feed-in-Tariff (FiT) deadline, as well as under extraordinary circumstances of the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Remote approaches had to be deployed via video conferencing, while a technical specialist was also mobilized to Vietnam to provide support. The project was urgently needed for the grid development in Ninh Thuan province and its surrounding areas, as the transformer banks can transmit enough energy to electrify two provinces and cities. The substation will crucially support electricity generated by a 450MW solar power plant located nearby in Quan The Village of the mentioned Thuan Nam district, built by the customer, Trung Nam Group. Mr. Nguyen Tam Tien, CEO of Trung Nam Group, comments on the great efforts that led to the completion and commissioning of the project: “This is an important milestone because we are unlocking more than 1 billion kWh of potential energy from renewable sources alone. In addition, this project helps to integrate power from the South Central Coastal grid, and also from abundant renewable energy sources in Ninh Thuan and Binh Thuan provinces. It helps to efficiently use surplus energy generated from existing renewable power plants, which could otherwise be damaging and substantially costly for the plant owners. He continues: “Thanks to this project’s success, we are looking forward to building more plants in future that will contribute to reinforcing Vietnam’s energy security and create positive impact on our national economy. This is in line with the vision in the Resolution 55 of the Vietnam Communist Party Politburo. I’d like to express my appreciation for the whole team and Siemens Energy for being a trusted and reliable partner in supporting the development of our renewable power sources and power transmission infrastructure, and for this timely delivery that exceeded the expectations.” Head of Transmission Products and Systems Asia Pacific Hub, Mr. Steve Loo explained what makes this project even more outstanding is having to overcome many challenges that were thrown upon the team. “The health and safety of our employees are of utmost importance for us. Thus, the team had to operate under special precautions to protect everybody against COVID-19. We are thankful that everything worked out well.” “I would like to express my high appreciation for the local Vietnam team and all factories involved who have worked tremendously hard to ensure the project’s success. We are extremely proud of the team’s achievement that will certainly augur well for future collaborations with the customer,” he said. Contact Media Relations mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download (English) PDF (418 KB) Download PDF Download (Vietnamese) PDF (181 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €29 billion in fiscal year 2019. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Read more March 26, 2025 Berlin Siemens Gamesa to divest a majority stake of its Indian wind business and enter into strategic partnership agreement with TPG and others February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition February 14, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy addresses the shortage of U.S. power transformers and invests in new factory October 17, 2023 Berlin Two become one: Siemens Energy combines two technologies to stabilize the Irish grid See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025