How can the energy industry land you a data center job? Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications March 30, 2025 2 min read How can the energy industry land you a data center job? by Izabela Krpan Career For almost eight years, Juan Ramón has been navigating the evolving landscape of data center jobs. This dynamic field has grown exponentially, enriching Juan Ramón’s career. As the world becomes increasingly digitalized and global internet traffic has expanded 25-fold since 2010, according to the International Energy Agency, pursuing a data center job offers new opportunities. Located in the vibrant city of Madrid, Juan Ramón's role as a business development manager specialized in data centers involves developing a range of data center solutions to support the varied demands of his customer base. Juan Ramón's background in industrial engineering allows him to effectively manage customer requirements that sometimes call for detailed technical conversations. He transitioned to that role from a more traditional oil & gas sector of the business, a move that allowed him to expand his work experience within the company. When asked whether his friends and family truly understand what a business development manager does at an energy company concerning data centers, Juan Ramón laughs: “Not always. I have to explain that everything on your mobile phone, or when you open Netflix or shop online, all that information is stored in a place called a data center. And it’s growing and growing... And those data centers need energy 24/7.” As data centers have become increasingly recognized as part of our critical infrastructure, ensuring their energy efficiency is a crucial challenge that professionals with a data center job at a company like Siemens Energy tackle. With his deep expertise, Juan Ramón frequently engages in interactions with customers to discuss strategies for more energy-efficient operations. In his role focused on the South Europe region, he needs to think strategically, making sure the data center solutions are appropriate for the regional market, while at the same time approaching the customer needs with a global approach. Juan Ramón, business development manager for data centers, emphasizes the importance of collaboration when searching for customer solutions Data center job requires being bold and curious Working in data centers sometimes feels like sailing in open waters—always needing to adapt to new winds of technological development and different client needs. “A data center is such a new and evolving topic; we are exploring new data center solutions with our customers on a daily basis,” says Juan Ramón, pointing out that constant learning is key to the role. Whether it's from other experts in the field or through the broad training offerings that the company provides, he is always proactive in his day-to-day work. In the morning, he might find himself strategizing with a renewable energy company on how their sustainable power solutions could be appealing to data centers. Later that day, he dedicates time to in-depth technical discussions with his team to help him prepare for a client meeting that week. During a typical week in a data center job, he also spends time crafting project plans and communicating progress to management, ensuring that everyone is aligned on the goals and milestones of their data center projects. Event attendance and engagement with the customer in person are also significant parts of working as a business development manager, even though he appreciates the ability to work from home for more focused tasks and the flexibility to balance his family life. “ The expectation is never to know everything, but to keep asking questions. Juan Ramón Muñoz Pascualsanz Business Development Manager – Data Centers & Renewables Learn more about working at Siemens Energy In a field where knowledge-sharing is as crucial as the technology itself, Juan Ramón places immense value on the supportive network of colleagues he interacts with globally. “The expectation is never to know everything, but to keep asking questions”, says Juan Ramón. There is a collective drive within the team to overcome obstacles and innovate, even when solutions are not apparent at first. The team shares a bold energy, what enables them to transform challenges into opportunities and stay dedicated to progress over perfection. For those who are eager to step out of their comfort zone, a data center job might just be the right fit, and "Siemens Energy could be a great starting point," mentions Juan Ramón. If you search for them, expect many possibilities and an atmosphere where “collaboration, transparency, and trust” are values that Juan Ramón and the team see as their daily commitment. Start your career at Siemens Energy now Start your career Join us in our mission to create a sustainable, reliable and affordable energy future. Whether you're an engineer, a technician, or a business professional, we have opportunities for you. Explore our job openings and appy now Read more 5 min read Powering AI data centers: Meeting North America's electrical and energy needs January 28, 2025 3 min read “Meet Joachim, 3-time dad and devoted engineer of a green-fuel future” August 9, 2024 4 min read A young professional’s path to leadership See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025