SVC PLUS (STATCOM) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SVC PLUS®  (STATCOM) Whenever an innovative and universally applicable solution for grid enhancement is required, SVC PLUS®  provides the ideal solution. Our advanced STATCOM (static synchronous compensator) with modular multilevel converter (MMC) technology provides additional benefits compared to conventional solutions for reactive power compensation. While conventional SVC installations already provide a highly dynamic solution for voltage regulation in the power grid, the modular multilevel system SVC PLUS® is even faster and offers additional benefits. Siemens Energy also offers mobile SVC PLUS® solutions that support short-term grid changes and rapid restoration after severe incidents. Arrange a consultation The fastest dynamic voltage stabilizer SVC PLUS® combines the benefits of static synchronous compensation (STATCOM) and modular multilevel converter technology with an optimized amount of components. Despite its outstanding performance, SVC PLUS® requires relatively few system components, which simplifies the design, planning, and engineering of new projects. The components used for SVC PLUS® comprise proven and robust components such as industrial class insulated gate bipolar transistors (IGBT), reactors, capacitors, and in utility applications AC power transformers. Thanks to modular multilevel converter (MMC) technology our SVC PLUS® offers great flexibility regarding design and layout of converters and substations. The modularity and the low number of system components also reduce commissioning time compared to complex conventional SVC systems. Have a closer look at the SVC PLUS®: 3D Experience Have a closer look at the SVC PLUS® mobile STATCOM: 3D Experience SVC PLUS® to ensure power quality through fast voltage support Mobile STATCOM - fast grid stabilization and restoration One solution, many benefits Optimal stability and quality The SVC PLUS® is geared to quickly inject significant inductive or capacitive power. Thus the SVC PLUS® provides improved dynamic stability of transmission systems to reduce the risk of voltage collapse and blackout while avoiding deterioration of the power quality due to its multilevel configuration: generating unwanted harmonics is widely avoided. In harmony with harmonics – and best flicker reduction Harmonics generation is low due to the use of MMC technology, resulting also in low noise emissions. The extremely fast control allows in industrial applications highly efficient flicker reduction and even active reduction of the lower harmonics caused by a nonlinear load such as an electric arc furnace. Fastest response – efficient solution The standardized component design allows minimized engineering efforts and provides an overall fast, efficient, modular, and cost-effective solution. The SVC PLUS® control with its most advanced concept offers unsurpassed speed in controlling the IGBT semiconductors to precisely generate the desired flow of energy between the converter and the feeding network. Better control for power grids Depending on your needs, Siemens Energy provides the right solutions for grid stabilization and load compensation of any scope. The portfolio comprises the conventional STATCOM and the advanced SVC PLUS® in manifold combinations, and the mobile SVC PLUS® systems that can be moved to any place in short time. Variations of STATCOMs SVC PLUS® (STATCOM) Containerized SVC PLUS® Mobile STATCOM Small footprint, huge performance The SVC PLUS® is an advanced STATCOM (static synchronous compensator). By using the voltage-sourced converter (VSC) technology based on Siemens Energy modular multilevel converter (MMC) design, it offers high economical and technical flexibility by its modular design. The footprint of an SVC PLUS® installation is smaller than a conventional SVC installation of the same rating, by up to 50 percent. Reduced project duration In order to reduce the civil work effort, Siemens Energy developed the containerized SVC PLUS®. The solution requires no building and less installation effort. Furthermore, the containerized design results in lower project execution time. The containerized SVC PLUS® includes the matured and proven technology of the SVC PLUS® with the best grid stability performance and a small footprint. Grid stabilization – anywhere, anytime The mobile STATCOM is Siemens Energy’s multi-tool for transmission grids that enables temporary grid support and grid resilience against emergencies. The preconfigured SVC PLUS® container combines major components in one housing and enables “plug and play” cable interconnection. A reactor container that contains the reactor coils including conventional bus bar arrangement complements it. The mobile STATCOM is the optimal solution for rapid service restoration after severe incidences, line rework, and grid changes, for example during power plant shutdowns. Our solutions for grid stabilization in practice One of our projects – Kriftel, Germany: turnkey solution SVC PLUS® Improves grid stability thanks to voltage regulations, enabling integration of renewable energies SVC PLUS® with the operating range of ±300 Mvar at 380 kV, MSCDN with the operating range of 300 Mvar at 380 kV Complete enclosure of all components, including cable connections State-of-the-art active harmonic filtering function Plant availability of over 99% SVC PLUS® (STATCOM) for better industrial load compensation Large electrical consumers in industrial processes often show a very dynamic behavior. Looking at the most extreme case of electrical loads worldwide, Electrical Arc Furnaces (EAFs) – where a single unit can have a consumption of up to around 300 MVA (the consumption of a city of 300.000 inhabitants) – their load characteristic is extremely dynamic and stochastic, creating a number of disturbances to the feeding grid, such as fast voltage fluctuations causing the phenomenon of flickering of light, bad power factor and asymmetric loading of the 3 phases of the supply system, as well generation of harmonics due to the non linear current of the electric arc. To counteract the disturbances of such industrial loads, an innovative and versatile compensation solution for enhancing power quality is required - SVC PLUS® provides the ideal solution. Our advanced STATCOM (static synchronous compensator) with modular multilevel converter (MMC) technology provides additional benefits compared to conventional solutions for load compensation. While conventional SVC installations already provide a highly dynamic solution for power quality improvement at the the grid connection point of an industrial power distribution system, the modular multilevel system SVC PLUS® is even faster and offers multiple additional benefits. Depending on the size and characteristics of the load and the utility regulations, Siemens Energy offers different SVC PLUS® concepts to mitigate the unwanted impact of the load to the grid. Optimal reactive power compensation With SVC PLUS®, Siemens Energy further enhanced the capabilities of a static synchronous compensator (STATCOM) with modular multilevel converter (MMC) technology. Whenever your applications require a highly dynamic solution for voltage regulation, the modular multilevel system SVC PLUS® is the right choice. SVC PLUS® for industrial applications - introduction Despite its outstanding performance, SVC PLUS® requires relatively few system components, which simplifies the design, planning, and engineering of new projects. The components used for SVC PLUS® comprise proven and robust components such as industrial class insulated gate bipolar transistors (IGBT), reactors, filter circuits, typically connected directly to the medium voltage busbar that feeds the load to be compensated. Thanks to modular multilevel converter (MMC) technology our SVC PLUS® offers great flexibility regarding design and layout of converters in the industrial substation. The modularity and the low number of system components also benefit commissioning time required. Different STATCOM systems for industrial applications Depending on your needs, Siemens Energy provides the right solutions for load compensation of any scope. The portfolio comprises the advanced SVC PLUS® in manifold combinations, such as the SVC PLUS® Compact for smaller load compensation, SVC PLUS® for medium size and SVC PLUS® 2+1 for high power applications. Have a closer look at the industrial SVC PLUS® compact Have a closer look at the industrial SVC PLUS® Have a closer look at the industrial SVC PLUS® 2+1 industrial SVC PLUS® compact industrial SVC PLUS® industrial SVC PLUS®  2+1 Smallest footprint for load compensation of small to medium size industrial plants The SVC PLUS® is an advanced STATCOM (static synchronous compensator). By using the voltage-sourced converter (VSC) technology based on Siemens Energy modular multilevel converter (MMC) design it offers high economical and technical flexibility by its modular design. The footprint of an SVC PLUS® installation is smaller than a conventional SVC installation of the same rating, by up to 50 percent. The "small solution" offer the right load-compensating performance for small- to medium-size industrial plants: excellent voltage stabilization provides the best preconditions for stable production, securing power quality parameters secures hassle-free connection to the public grid. Load compensation for large industrial plants or for weak grid connection More and more often, the necessity arises to set up industrial plants with large fluctuating consumers in regions with weak electrical infrastructure – the most prominent example is the electrical arc furnace for melting scrap steel: Extreme variation of electric power consumption combined with generation of harmonics characterize the behavior of this consumer of electric power. Maintaining power quality parameters on the other hand is often a precondition to connect such a plant to the public grid. This constellation calls for a compensation system of highest performance. To achieve this task, filter circuits are added in parallel to the multilevel converter (MMC) as in the SVC PLUS® Compact to fully and optimally utilize the complete range of reactive power of the converter. Load compensation of very large industrial loads The SVC PLUS® 2+1 is the Siemens Energy approach to very large industrial electric consumers: Electric arc furnaces nowadays often are in the range of 200MVA – a tough task also for the load compensation system. A combination of 2 SVC PLUS® converters, together with filter circuits where required, is the concept of choice, that also offers highest achievable results in flicker reduction and improvement of other power quality parameters. This solution additionally offers concept-inherent partial mutual backup – in case of a failure of any of the 3 functional groups SVC PLUS® converter 1, converter 2 or filter circuits the faulty functional group is switched off, but the remaining system stays in operation with reduced power, which allows the load to continue operation. Depending on the actual short circuit power level a power reduction of the load may be necessary, if the grid cannot tolerate temporarily the reduced power quality improvement of the remaining compensation system. Should the load be even larger, the concept can be expanded by adding a further converter. What’s new with STATCOM technology SVC PLUS FS® (E-STATCOM) An SVC PLUS® frequency stabilizer is able to emulating system inertia by boosting high active power into the grid when needed. It also offers voltage support by means of reactive power compensation. Discover our SVC PLUS FS® (E-STATCOM) Grid-forming Stable grid voltage without relying on external grid reference Reducing dependence on external influences/reference sources Sustain voltage and frequency during disturbances and load changes Discover grid-forming Grid Flow PLUS - our new control and protection platform Control & Protection (C&P) systems are key to managing power flows and protecting grid components in HVDC and FACTS plants. Both tasks have to be considered in light of increasingly complex grid architectures and fluctuating power infeed from renewable energy sources. For many Transmission System Operators (TSO) and Distribution System Operators (DSO), this leads to three major challenges: first, fast reaction to market needs and short lead time of the C&P system. Second, reliable and secure operations throughout the entire lifecycle while safeguarding low Total Cost of Ownership (TCO). And last but not least, the C&P system should be easy to expand for new solutions and services. This is crucial in order to cope with the ongoing transformation of the energy system and to leverage the potential of future innovations. With our new modular C&P platform Grid Flow PLUS, we’re addressing all of these challenges. C&P platform - Grid Flow PLUS Modular and standardized approach to engineering improvement High degree of basic functionalities based on Reference Project Lines Fully digital Reference Project Line Standardized software components with integrated testing Dynamic software development Faster system deployment and reduced engineering loops Reliable and safe operations with ensured security Proven technologies thoroughly tested, including PLUSCONTROL 2nd generation, Sicam PAS/SCC, and Beckhoff R&D with full functional performance testing at control system cubicles Emphasis on cybersecurity with industrially proven Unix operating system and compliance with IEC62443 2-4 and 3-3 Continued service of existing C&P system platform Future-proof with open standards for continued service and hardware-independent software development Emphasis on digitalization with a common data backbone and cloud-based engineering portal Application of future pilot project for cloud-based operator training simulator Prepared for ongoing transformation and participation in future innovations Additional information SVC PLUS® flyer PDF (2 MB) Download SVC PLUS® Mobile STATCOM flyer PDF (2 MB) Download Grid stabilization brochure PDF (23 MB) Download Read more March 24, 2021 Munich Siemens Energy’s reactive power compensation technology helps advance CO 2-free power supply in California July 1, 2019 Houston Siemens hands over its 100th static synchronous compensator to Amprion August 30, 2022 Munich Siemens Energy technology stabilizes German power grid See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025