Hybrid power solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Hybrid power solutions Energy innovation: hybrid power solutions for a greener world New sustainability targets and the complexities of the energy market present challenges in remote locations with limited or inefficient grid access. The solution: Our hybrid power solution ! It's the powerful yet simple answer to these challenges. Our hybrid power solution is a system that integrates multiple power sources , such as renewable energy, energy storage, and traditional generators, to provide reliable and efficient electricity supply . These solutions are designed to optimize your energy production , reduce reliance on fossil fuels, and enhance energy resilience in various applications, including remote locations and off-grid environments. Benefits of hybrid power solutions Powerfully intelligent Smart technologies . Smart control. Smart dispatch. Achieved via advanced control capabilities for complex energy systems. Powerfully sustainable Hybrid power solutions help reduce emissions, meet decarbonization targets , and integrate existing assets. Powerfully reliable Sustainable energy must be reliable , e.g. via smart energy storage solutions as well as weather forecast data. Hybrid power plants: addressing energy system challegenes Curious how our hybrid power solution could look like? Watch the video! Our white paper takes a close look at cost-optimized energy design for hybrid power plants that generate carbon-free electricity at a competitive price: Download free white paper Applications and scope elements for hybrid power solutions Integrated electrolyzer and heat pump Our Integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution combines hydrogen production with waste heat utilization and cooling for the PEM electrolyzer. Hydrogen power plants Our integrated hydrogen power plants help to lower CO2 emissions with production of green hydrogen , re-electrification and heat for new and existing units. Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) BESS offer efficient and cost-effective energy storage solutions. They can be used to balance the grid, provide backup power and improve grid stability . Hybrid power solutions: combination of smart technologies Smart, renewable hybrid power solutions technologies integrate multiple energy sources , such as solar, wind, and battery storage , to provide reliable and sustainable electricity generation. To learn more about the components of hybrid power solutions, click on the hotspot items in the picture below. Empower grid stability with hybrid power solutions The need for stable and reliable energy is universal – even on islands, mines and other remote locations. Get a closer look into how our hybrid power solutions tap on renewables to generate electricity that is sustainable yet affordable far from power transmission grids . Maximize the use of renewable energy in your power generation and take the powerful step towards decarbonizing your power supply. Decarbonization in action: hybrid power plants UNESCO World Heritage Site 99% grid availability for a UNESCO World Heritage Site The island needed to mitigate environmental risks associated with diesel-based power while improving the resilience , availability and quality of its supply Our solution: integrated solar and biofuel sources, an electrical energy storage system, and a smart hybrid control system The outcome : 42 tons of diesel and 134 tons of CO2 emissions saved monthly ; with an average of 114 MWh energy harvested per PV per month Explore more HYFLEXPOWER project World’s first, SGT-400 powered combined heat and hybrid power plant HYFLEXPOWER project demonstrates 100% hydrogen operation at combined heat and power plant in France. In a world’s first, SGT-400 powered combined heat and power plant demonstrates viability of on-site integrated power-to-H2-to-power concept. Exemplary multi-partner project supported by the European Commission Explore more Related topics Electrolyzer and heat pump solution Our technology uses an integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution to produce hydrogen and heat from waste heat, reducing the need for additional equipment. Energy System Design (ESD) The ESD program balances decarbonization with cost-effective solutions for a sustainable energy system transformation. CertaLink certification Certify your green products with CertaLink certification from Siemens Energy. Benefit from our expertise and support in green certification. Power-to-X Green hydrogen, a CO₂-free energy carrier and key for Power-to-X solutions , offers opportunities for clean power and decarbonization. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025