Energy System Design Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Energy System Design Designing sustainable energy systems Energy System Design (ESD) enables customized energy systems for economically viable steps towards decarbonization or new Power-to-X revenue streams. Together, we develop individual solutions to help you decarbonize and create new businesses . Our ESD approach looks at future revenue potentials, the site environment and balances your goals, e.g., decarbonization targets, with your specific economical and technical boundary conditions. We provide solutions that support you on the way to your sustainable energy system. Contact us Main benefits of energy system consulting Future revenue streams We help you identify potential future revenue streams in a volatile environment by analyzing various scenarios. Optimal asset configuration Determine the optimal asset combination and sizing within a wide possible solution space. Decarbonization path We help you create and implement a robust, step-by-step roadmap for technology selection. Energy System Design project types For a comprehensive understanding of our approach to ESD, we invite you to read our detailed ESD white papers. These documents explore the advanced methodologies and technologies we use to create efficient, sustainable, and reliable energy systems. Free download: Energy System Design white paper Industrial decarbonization Evaluation of the decarbonization potential of existing industrial plants . Developing a solid decarbonization roadmap to make existing infrastructure future-ready. Power plant sites Brownfield Transformation of existing assets like fossil power plants considering local markets for electricity, district heating and process steam. Develop a decarbonization roadmap. Hydrogen and Power-to-X Optimized technology selection and sizing of hydrogen and e-fuel synthesis plants powered by renewable energy. Our expertise is exemplified by projects like Haru Oni , which demonstrated the pracital application of Power-to-X technology. For further information, have a look into our Power-to-X white paper . Hybrid Power By integrating renewables, energy storage, and dispatchable generation, we create optimized hybrid energy systems that enhance reliability and efficiency. To learn more, explore our hybrid power solutions webpage and our detailed cost-optimized design of hybrid power plants white paper . Our consulting approach for energy system concepts and decarbonization Regardless of the project type e.g., industrial decarbonization, hydrogen and Power-to-X, hybrid power or power plant sites, our Energy System Design follows a very structured and consultative approach that is characterized by great collaboration between you and us: Understanding your vision of your future business Understanding your business vision deeply, e.g., exploring new Power-to-X revenue streams or decarbonizing your existing industry is key for our approach. Jointly, we discuss all future options for energy procurement, offtake or revenue streams and potential technologies to be analyzed. We employ a holistic view of electricity , thermal energy and other commodities. If needed, we review your current assets to consider your site-specific boundary conditions. Optimize your future energy system Our global team evaluates your cost-optimal energy system. We select and size your future assets , i.e. energy conversion and energy storage units, by means of a professional mathematical optimization approach in hourly granularity. As one integrated energy technology company, we include a profound knowledge of various technologies . We always find the right level of detail – our experts advise how to simplify complex systems. Pathway to your future energy system We present a tailor-made solution which meets your goals, e.g. implementation of novel Power-to-X solutions or carbon dioxide emissions reductions of your industry. If desired, we develop an individual transformation path for your site to your future energy system. We provide a concise summary and comprehensive documentation of the analyses including deeps insides , e.g., system’s dispatch, detailed costs etc. for all sensitivities investigated. Our professional mathematical energy system optimization approach Modern energy systems can consist of a variety of building blocks that convert, store and transfer different energy-related commodities . The design of energy systems requires the selection of technologies and the definition of their rated power or capacity in a way that all existing loads can be covered. Simultaneously, the plant’s future dispatch needs to be considered , e.g., to account for volatile solar and wind power generation or fluctuating energy demands and commodity prices. Hence, a holistic planning and evaluation process of energy systems represent a challenging task in which we aim to support our customers with individual solutions that combine economic viability, sustainability, and security of supply. Due to the numerous degrees of freedom and boundary conditions, this planning process cannot be tackled with simple spreadsheet-based tools. Instead, mathematical optimization models are used in the scientific and industrial context to solve complex Energy System Design (ESD) problems . For this we make use of professional state-of-the-art ESD tools, mathematical solvers for linear and mixed-integer linear models, and methods for complexity reduction (e.g., time series aggregation and multi-stage solving methods). Related topics Power-to-X Green hydrogen, a CO₂-free energy carrier and key for Power-to-X solutions , offers opportunities for clean power and decarbonization. Green hydrogen production Discover more about our innovative green hydrogen production methods and how they can transform your energy landscape by visiting our green hydrogen production webpage. CertaLink certification Certify your green products with CertaLink certification from Siemens Energy. Benefit from our expertise and support in green certification. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025