Industrial power plants Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Efficient on-site power supply Industrial power plant solutions Make an investment in your independence – and ensure a reliable and flexible power supply for your processes. Electricity and heating are major cost factors for industrial plants. That means there’s a long-term cost benefit in having your own power plant at your factory, mining, or production facility. It also helps you achieve climate goals and stay ahead of the competition. We will create just the right power plant solution for your purposes. Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Power your plant and power your business Global megatrends and the energy transformation redefine the requirements for competitiveness in all energy-intensive industries. Reliable, economical and environmentally compatible supplies of power, steam, heating and cooling play an increasingly important role. Get ready for the future with us: Concentrate on your core business, while we help you manage your energy supply. Learn more Your power plant – uniquely fitted Every industry, every factory, and every facility has its own unique demands for power supply. That’s why we configure and optimize your system individually, from the initial design to the final component. It goes without saying that we incorporate technologies proven in hundreds of facilities and over thousands of operating hours. Another factor that cuts your project risk: We pre-manufacture entire modules and test them away from the construction site. This means much less expense incurred on-site at your facility. From power train to turnkey power plant Available as a simple cycle or as a combined cycle power plant With aeroderivative turbines or industrial gas turbines, depending on the power output required From 14- to more than 230-MW output, for 50 Hz or 60 Hz grids At home in industry Siemens Energy has a thorough understanding of the processes in your industry. After all, we’ve been building, expanding, and modernizing all kinds of industrial facilities for decades. We know that production processes have to be closely interlinked with ancillary activities like electricity and heat generation and energy distribution. Only once everything is integrated can the opportunities for automation and digitalization be exploited to the full. Steel and cement Steel and cement Processing mineral raw materials requires a vast amount of energy. That’s why procuring electricity and heat makes up a significant proportion of operating costs. Entities that supply their own electricity and heat using their own power plant will enjoy significant cost savings. And with a sturdy, state-of-the-art combined cycle power plant, they can also substantially improve their environmental life cycle assessment. Oil and gas Oil and gas From production to transportation and refining – the oil and gas business is getting tougher. Increasingly stringent environmental regulations are forcing many players to take action. Companies that invest in state-of-the-art on-site power generation enjoy multiple benefits – by curbing their emissions through the flexible use of available raw materials and also by using technologies that seamlessly integrate into their production systems. We provide you robust mechanical engineering that will operate reliably – even with frequent changes of load and fluctuating gas quality. Pulp and paper (fiber industry) Pulp and paper (fiber industry) Whether you process recycled fiber or use cellulose and lignin from the raw material wood, your systems will consume large volumes of electricity and heat. Generate your own process steam with an integrated power plant on-site. We offer plants with combined heat and power (CHP) in all scales to meet every need. That means you can remain flexible and independent over the long run. Mining Mining Mining is all about raw materials. When it comes to competition, it is production costs that matter – and energy costs are a key factor. The remote regions where raw materials are extracted are often not connected to public power networks. An on-site supply requires flexible facilities that can deliver power under tough conditions at low cost. Whether it’s for open-cast or underground mining, in cold or hot environments, as a standalone system or a back-up for renewable sources – we will design and build exactly the power plant solution you need to bolster your competitive position. Chemical Chemical Safety is paramount in chemical processes, and outages are both risky and costly – so your electricity supply must be totally reliable. This works best if you have your own generating system on-site, which will make you independent of external suppliers and curb costs in the long term. If a power plant also permits heat extraction, all the better – that will make your entire system even more efficient. We build the right solution for you – and integrate it seamlessly into your chain of processes. Utilities and independent power producers Utilities and independent power producers The energy landscape is changing. Small gas-fired power plants will be a mainstay of our energy supply system for the foreseeable future. That’s because they can serve as a flexible back-up for renewables, they’re highly efficient and operate reliably, and they can enable regions to function independently. On islands or at remote industrial sites, covering basic load or peak, with or without heat extraction – our industrial power plant solution will perfectly suit your specific requirements. Reliable solutions – outstanding performance Scale: from a small 2-MW solution with a single gas turbine to a multi-shaft combined cycle power plant with a power output of 230 MW or more Scope: from power train to turnkey power plant with a performance guarantee Efficiency: an overall efficiency of up to 90 percent can be achieved with combined heat and power (CHP) Key components: highly efficient gas and steam turbines, steam generators, and instrumentation and control from Siemens Benefits in operation: minimized emission and fuel costs, maintenance-friendly systems Efficient turbines: the heart of every power plant SGT-800 industrial gas turbine: 50-62 MW The SGT-800 is the flagship of the Siemens portfolio of industrial gas turbines and provides excellent performance in combined cycle operation. It has proven itself in grid support and as a reliable backup for renewable energy sources. It is equally well-suited for independently supplying an industrial facility, with or without a grid connection. You can build on a fleet availability of over 97 percent. More about the SGT-800 Smaller gas turbines: between 2 and 62 MW SGT-A05 SGT-50 SGT-100 SGT-300 SGT-400 SGT-600 SGT - A35 SGT-700 SGT-750 For even more output: heat recovery steam generators and steam turbines Get even more out of the energy in your fuel: A steam generator will use waste heat from the gas turbine to generate steam, which can drive a steam turbine. Combined cycle operation pays off. Learn more about heat-recovery steam generation Learn more about our steam turbines Hydrogen readiness New gas power plants being build today will very likely be converted at a later stage to burn a blend of hydrogen up to 100% during the lifetime of the plant. This means that provisions for cost efficient later retrofit to hydrogen are essential. Hydrogen ready should not be confused with hydrogen capability. Hydrogen ready is defined as a prepared pathway towards an x% hydrogen capability. Learn more Siemens Energy power stations supply the world More than 1,500 power stations are in use around the world. Here are some of our top projects we have implemented with our customers. Energy for mining facility in Queensland Power supply for local tin and copper mines as well as residents of the region Flexible in simple gas and combined cycle operation, highly efficient at part load or load changes Two power islands á 121 MW (each consisting of one industrial steam turbine SST-400, two industrial gas turbines SGT-800, and two heat recovery steam generators) Malta's first combined cycle plant Handover to customer 2,5 month before the contractually agreed date Almost one million working hours without a single work-related accident Meets approximately 50% of Malta’s electricity demand with lower CO2 emissions, less noise, less smell, and greater efficiency First floating combined cycle power plant Hybrid power plant solution with integrated 5MW/10 MWh battery energy systems Power supply with a capacity of 145 megawatts fore more than one million people Successful commercial  operation in Santo Domingo in spring 2021 The path to the power plant solution you need Do you want to supply your facility with power, reliably and cost-effectively? Or free yourself from reliance on a costly public supply? Do you need a flexible reserve power plant? Together we’ll find the perfect solution for your particular challenge. Contact