Process Safety Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Engineering and process safety design Trusted partner and advisor, leading the industry with innovative consulting and engineering solutions Delivering value through engineering and process safety design More than ever, the process industries are on mission to leverage their investments to increase production efficiency, maximize return on assets, and deliver value throughout project lifecycle.  Whether you need engineering and advisory services for process design , process decarbonization, process safety and risk management, or asset integrity and reliability projects, our team of industrial process consultants and engineering experts are here to tackle most vital challenges.  We do this by combining diverse engineering talent, project insights, and innovative solutions.  We enable our customers to make effective decisions, fulfill operational objectives with customer-specific economic and technical boundary conditions, enhanced assets reliability , and improve facility position to better meet personnel, asset, and environment safety goals. Contact us Our engineering, process safety and design solutions for you Decarbonization consulting for informed strategies Process industries contribute 1/3rd of total CO 2 emissions and have ambitious reduction targets by 2030 and net zero by 2050.  Success in achieving these targets is dependent on defining a holistic strategy and step-by-step decarbonization roadmap.  Our decarbonization consulting experts support our customers defining and driving their path towards net zero. Optimizing asset performance An effective asset reliability and asset integrity management offers opportunities for facilities to minimize equipment failure, costly downtime, while adhering to environmental and regulatory requirements.  Our asset reliability and asset integrity management experts supported by our software technology help our customers maintain their assets in a fit-for-service, while extending life in the most reliable, safe, and cost-effective manner possible. Find out more Process design engineering By combining diverse engineering talent, project insights, flexible execution, and innovative solutions we enable our customers to achieve project success.  The early project engagements for concept and feasibility studies, basic engineering, FEED, design verification, and utilization of software technology has helped our customers maximizing projects’ ROI. Enhanced visibility into process safety and risk position Keeping people, assets, and environment safe is a fundamental requirement in process industry and is a license to operate.  We support our customers in their journey to excellence in process safety with our expertise in process hazards identification, analysis, and risk assessments.  Gaining visibility into facility’s risk position enables critical operational and project decisions, while ensuring compliance with standards and regulations. Find out more Safe and reliable flare and pressure relief systems Process operators are continuously making decisive action to safely achieve maximize operational throughput.  No matter how complex your flare and pressure relief systems questions, we have the experience, capabilities, and software technology to help optimize, analyze safety compliance, and document the pressure relief systems data while achieving flaring reduction and operation objectives. Find out more Training Keeping your workforce technically competitive in a rapidly evolving business landscape requires an organization focus on competency development.  Offering a range of training from best practices courses to process safety software training, our subject matter training will help keep your team current in respective areas of expertise in process safety software and ensuring productivity in our products.  From flare and pressure relief systems to inspection data management system and asset integrity management topics, there is a course designed for every personnel in your organization. More information about the existing trainings Insights and news Explore learnings, thought leadership to move industry forward with engineering and process safety design Reducing operational uncertainty using Asset Integrity Management Industries are on the edge of a new trend in asset reliability and efficiency improvement.  The common challenge is to maintain production capability cost-effectively while preserving the asset integrity.  Digitalization of asset integrity management that supports risk-based decision enables reduction in operational uncertainty to achieve cost savings, safety improvement, and productivity. Find out more Process safety design in renewable fuel processing An effective process safety management is essential for the industry transition into renewable energy.  The hydrogen, e-fuels, and biofuel processing facilities are required to implement a robust process safety and asset integrity management framework across the production, transportation, and storage value chain.  We support our customers in their needs with process design engineering, process safety and asset integrity management. Find out more Cybersecurity consideration in  process hazard analysis As the process industry evolves toward greater reliance on and integration with information technology, it is critical to consider malicious and intentional disruption of process operations that may exploit the enhanced capabilities and integration of modern communication with process safety, controls, and operations. Find out more How can we support you in your business needs? Contact us For more information please get in touch with us. We are here for you. Click here to contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025