Green hydrogen production Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Green hydrogen production Electrolyzer for green hydrogen production in detail Decarbonizing through green hydrogen Green hydrogen (H 2 ) is a versatile energy carrier that can be applied to decarbonize a wide range of sectors . It can be used directly or in the form of its derivatives like e-Methanol, e-Ammonia, or e-Fuels to replace fossil fuels like coal or gas. Only around 40% of global carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) emissions originate from power generation which can be decarbonized via electrification . The other 60% of CO 2 emissions originate from industry, mobility, buildings and others. These can be decarbonized via sector coupling , using green hydrogen and its derivatives to make renewable energy available to those sectors. This is why the production of sustainable hydrogen is so important for the energy transition. Our electrolyzer portfolio: the optimum solution for large-scale sustainable hydrogen production Generating green hydrogen efficiently from water and renewable energy requires high-end technology and innovative solutions — like our electrolyzer product family from Siemens Energy. Using Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) electrolysis , our electrolyzer is ideally suited for harnessing volatile energy generated from wind and solar. Combining high efficiency and high power density , our PEM electrolyzers ensure gas products of superior quality . It is easy to operate and requires low maintenance. Using a modular design strategy that splits the electrolysis system into skids, we are able to optimize costs, reduce installation costs, and make the electrolysis system transportable. The prefabricated PEM electrolyzer, with stacks combined in groups, allows for modular and rapid on-site installation. It serves as a cornerstone in the Trailblazer project, highlighting the capabilities of our advanced electrolyzer core system. Our commitment to grid integration and safety is evident in our approach, encompassing transformers and in-house developed rectifier configurations. The successful upscaling to a higher power level is demonstrated in the depicted 50 MW reference plant. Leveraging our extensive energy industry experience, we ensure seamless implementation of large-scale projects and deliver comprehensive electrolysis plant services. Our modular electrolyzer core system design enables the creation of plants up to gigawatt capacity. Free download: Electrolyzer brochure Scaling up the capacity of green hydrogen production The new gigawatt electrolyzer plant in Berlin is highly automated with robotics and digitalization. Carbon emission targets in the European Union and other industrialized countries will require massive scaling-up and acceleration of renewable hydrogen production and imports. That’s why we have joined forces with Air Liquide to create a joint venture dedicated to the series production of industrial-scale renewable hydrogen electrolyzers . In 2023, we started production of electrolysis stacks at our multi-gigawatt electrolyzer facility in Berlin and will ramp up the production. The factory will supply stacks to Siemens Energy and Air Liquide for our broad range of customers and serve the rapidly growing market. Your service partner for green hydrogen production and beyond We can offer comprehensive services for your electrolyzer plant and energy assets along the entire hydrogen value chain. Our service agreements range from basic maintenance to premium service with state-of-the-art data analysis and can be customized to your needs. Our combined package of maintenance, support and digital services can ensure reliable and economical operation . You can reduce your risks with our performance guarantees or enjoy total peace of mind with our operations and maintenance service program . Together, we will push your clean hydrogen production to the next level. Our electrolyzer systems in the field EWE | Clean Hydrogen Coastline | Germany Electrolyzer capacity: 280 MW Hydrogen application: industry and steel industry USP: avioded 800,000 tons of CO2 in steel industry Read more Air Liquide Normand'Hy | France Electrolyzer capacity: 200 MW Hydrogen application: industry and mobility USP: 28,000 tons of renewable hydrogen and 250,000 tons CO2 reduction/year Read more Luxcara | Hamburg Green Hydrogen Hub | Germany Electrolyzer capacity: 100 MW Hydrogen application: various industrial sectors USP: green hydrogen at the site of the former Moorburg coal-fired power plant Read more BASF | Hy4Chem-EI | Germany Electrolyzer capacity: 54 MW Hydrogen application: chemical industry USP: 72,000 metric tons per year hydrogen as a raw material Read more Air Liquide Trailblazer | Germany Electrolyzer capacity: 20 MW Hydrogen application: industry, steel and mobility USP: Germany's largest electrolyzer connected to an existing hydrogen and oxygen infrastructure Read more H2 Future | Austria Electrolyzer capacity: 6 MW Hydrogen application: steel industry USP: Supply grid services via a highly dynamic power consumption Read more Understanding the process of PEM water electrolysis Our Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) , simply explained, splits water into its molecules hydrogen and oxygen using an electric current. The PEM membrane serves as barrier between the two electrodes and allows the protons to pass through while preventing the mixing of the gases, facilitating the separation and collection of the hydrogen and oxygen gases. PEM water electrolysis is an important technology for the production of hydrogen as a clean and sustainable source, as it provides a way to generate hydrogen gas using renewable electricity and water, without producing greenhouse gas emissions . Your partner for sustainable hydrogen production With our extensive knowledge of industrial, mobility, and energy sectors, we’re able to provide dependable solutions for our customers in every aspect of green hydrogen production. You will benefit from Siemens Energy’s decades of experience, global footprint, infrastructure, strong partnerships and manpower available, covering the full energy value chain from renewable power via transmission to hydrogen and Power-to-X production. Moreover, we can help you certify the source of green energy with CertaLink certification . Are you ready for the green hydrogen economy? We are and we look forward to being your partner for sustainable hydrogen generation. Green solutions: white papers on green hydrogen Download Siemens Energy's technical papers and benefit from our expertise. Power-to-X: on the way to a carbon-free world The white paper provides an overview of use cases  provides an overview of use cases and solution packages for industries, utilities and project developer . Power-to-X: a closer look at e-Ammonia Find out more about the economic feasibility, key markets and applications of e-Ammonia around the world in connection with Power-to-X in our white paper . e-Methanol: a universal green fuel In the future, non-fossil e-Methanol will see vast new application fields. This paper focuses on the green hydrogen path, which uses renewable electricity. Related topics Electrolyzer and heat pump Our technology uses an integrated electrolyzer and heat pump solution to produce hydrogen and heat from waste heat, reducing the need for additional equipment. Hybrid power solution Decarbonize your independent power supply while ensuring cheap, available energy with Siemens Energy's hybrid power solution . Energy System Design (ESD) The Energy System Design program balances decarbonization with cost-effective solutions for a sustainable energy system transformation. Power-to-X Green hydrogen, a CO₂-free energy carrier and key for Power-to-X solutions , offers opportunities for clean power and decarbonization. FAQ – The most common questions on hydrogen General Produce, store, transport Safety Electrolysis Application Energy transition What is hydrogen? Hydrogen (chemical symbol H) is a gas. As a molecule (H 2 ), it occurs only in small amounts in nature and it is mainly chemically bound, such as H 2 O. Is hydrogen a rare element? Hydrogen is the most abundant element in the universe. 90 percent of all atoms are hydrogen atoms. They add up to three quarters of the total mass in the universe. At what temperature does hydrogen gas turn liquid? Hydrogen converts into a liquid at minus 253 ºC. What is the energy density of hydrogen compared to conventional fuels? Hydrogen has the highest energy density of all conventional fuels by mass: almost three times as high as that of gasoline or diesel. That is one of the reasons why hydrogen is used as fuel for space travel. H 2 Higher  Heating  Value: 39.4 kWh/kg; H 2 Lower Heating  Value: 33.3 kWh/kg How can the energy stored in hydrogen be used? By combusting hydrogen, it delivers heat. Used in fuel cells, hydrogen is converted electrochemically  to electrical energy. Do we have enough experience in the production and use of hydrogen? Hydrogen has been produced and used for more than 200 years. Experience shows that hydrogen can be stored, distributed and converted safely. As early as 1808, the first large-scale use of hydrogen was established for the street lighting system in London. How can hydrogen be produced? Hydrogen (H 2 ) can be produced in different ways. For the moment more than 95% of the hydrogen worldwide is produced from hydrocarbons while producing and emitting harmful CO 2 . A more modern and ecofriendly technology for CO 2 neutral production of hydrogen can be offered by electrolysis of water. Which processes exist today for producing hydrogen? Hydrogen can be produced from hydrocarbons by steam reforming of natural gas - often referred to as steam methane reforming (SMR), coal gasification and from an electrolysis process of water (H 2 O). How can hydrogen be stored? Hydrogen can be stored in tanks as a compressed gas or as a liquid. Hydrogen can also be stored in caverns or in the natural gas grid for different applications and if the grid fulfils all technological requirements. Why is the compression or liquefaction of hydrogen needed? The volumetric energy density of hydrogen at atmospheric pressure is approximately one third of traditional fuels. The volumetric energy density can be increased by compression or liquefaction of the hydrogen gas to store and transport a greater amount of hydrogen. What pressures are common in compressed gas storage? For hydrogen-powered vehicles, an industry standard of 300 to 700 bar has been established. Vehicles for the transport of compressed hydrogen, so called “tankers”, usually working with a maximum pressure of 200 bar. How can hydrogen be transported? Hydrogen can be transported as a compressed gas or a cryogenic liquid. Today, the two main methods for transporting hydrogen (primarily in a gaseous state) are via tanker e.g. tube trailer for road transportation and in gas pipelines (for short distance). Is hydrogen toxic or poisonous? Hydrogen is a non-toxic clear gas. It is not poisonous, has no taste or odor. Using hydrogen as a fuel source with fuel cells does not create fumes, pollute the atmosphere with carbon dioxide or emit nitrogen oxides. How dangerous is the use of hydrogen? It is not inherently more dangerous than other fuel sources.  Hydrogen is flammable and must be handled with care, just like other flammable fuels. To ignite, the hydrogen must be combined with an additional oxidizing agent (air, pure oxygen, chlorine, etc.) in a specific  concentration and an ignition source (a spark). If, in a worst-case scenario, the hydrogen ignites, it burns upwards very quickly. It creates no dangerous heat radiation above the accident site, as petrol or kerosene do. What is being done to prevent the formation of an explosive hydrogen-air mixture? The facilities are designed to be permanently leak proof. Flange connections are designed especially for hydrogen and the number of detachable connections are minimized. Furthermore, in buildings a steady air exchange is ensured and the facilities are equipped with safety valves and pressure reliefs. Additionally explosion prevention zones are designated. In these zones, electrical and other equipment needs to be in accordance with 2014/34/EU (ATEX Directive). Is it true that hydrogen cannot be stored safely? No. Hydrogen can be safely handled and stored as well as transported. The industrial gas industry has done so for over a century. What are the dangers regarding a hydrogen gas leak? In contrast to gasoline and natural gas, hydrogen gas has significant buoyancy in atmospheric conditions due to its low density, any leaking hydrogen gas ascends immediately and disperses, which reduces the risk of an ignition in open air. How does electrolysis work? Water gets split into its components hydrogen and oxygen by means of electrical current. What kind of electrolysis systems exist? Electrolysis processes can be categorized as follows: alkaline electrolysis with liquid alkaline electrolytes, acidic electrolysis with a solid polymer electrolyte (as PEM) and high temperature electrolysis with a solid oxide as electrolyte. PEM electrolysis and alkaline electrolysis systems are available at an industrial scale. The solid oxide electrolysis technology is in an early development phase. What does PEM stand for? PEM is the abbreviation for proton exchange membrane. This membrane is a crucial part of the electrolytic cell in a PEM-electrolyzer. The membrane separates the anode, where the oxygen is collected, and the cathode, where the hydrogen gas is generated. What are the differences between the electrolysis systems? The type of the ions which closes the electric circuit PEM: H + Alkali: OH - SOE: O 2 - What are the benefits of PEM electrolysis systems? High gas purity >99,999% High dynamics High efficiency (>70%) High power density High life cycle Clean (no chemicals, only water and electricity) How much water is needed for PEM electrolysis? 10 liter demineralized water is needed for 1kg of hydrogen. How much energy is necessary to produce 1kg of hydrogen with electrolysis? On average 50kWh are necessary to produce 1kg of hydrogen, depending on the efficiency of the electrolyzer and operation mode. In which sectors is hydrogen used in particular? The hydrogen market is divided in three sectors. Mobility, energy and industry with industry being by far the largest consumer today (~90%). In the future a redistribution towards the mobility and energy sector is expected . What possible industry applications exist for hydrogen today? Today, hydrogen is an important industrial gas, i.e. for the refining of fuels, for the production of fertilizer and methanol, for the hydrogenation of fats, for steel production, metal processing, as well as in the production of flat glass. How much hydrogen is required to drive 100km with a medium sized car? Less than 1kg of hydrogen is needed per 100km. How long does it take to refuel a fuel cell electric vehicle? Passenger car or light duty vehicle fueling takes 3 to 5 minutes. What are the specific advantages of combining electricity from renewable energies and hydrogen? Hydrogen enables the long-term storage of large quantities of surplus renewable energy. It is allows new ways to use green electricity, i.e. by using hydrogen as substitute for natural gas by feeding it into existing pipelines, as fuel for fuel-cell vehicles or power plants, or as feedstock for the hydrogen processing industry. It opens the possibility to connect energy generation with the industry and mobility sectors, the so called “sector coupling”. Is hydrogen only a temporary solution? No. Hydrogen will become a substantial and permanent element of a sustainable energy industry. What are the main components of the energy mix for hydrogen production? In the future, hydrogen will be produced to a greater extent using electricity from renewable energy sources. Furthermore, biogas and various fuels like solid biomass will help to produce green hydrogen in the future. What are the so called ‘green’, ‘grey/brown’ and ‘blue’ hydrogens? ‘Green’ hydrogen is sourced by 100% renewable energy. That means that the needed energy to produce hydrogen by electrolysis has emitted zero emissions. Hydrogen produced from fossil fuels releasing emissions such as CO 2 , may be referred to as ‘grey’ or ‘brown’ hydrogen. If the emitted carbon dioxide is captured, stored (carbon capture storage) and re-used, it is often called ‘blue’ hydrogen. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025