Encana selects Siemens to provide rotating equipment for Pipestone Processing Facility Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Encana selects Siemens to provide rotating equipment for Pipestone Processing Facility Press release January 10, 2019 Houston First North American gas processing plant application for Siemens SGT-750 turbine Siemens was recently selected to provide one feed and sales gas train and one refrigeration compression train for Encana’s Pipestone Processing Facility in Grand Prairie, Alberta, Canada. Designed to accommodate future capacity expansion, the Pipestone Processing Facility will provide Encana with 19,000 barrels per day of net raw condensate processing capacity plus 170 million cubic feet per day of net inlet natural gas processing capacity. Keyera will own the Pipestone Processing Facility and provide processing services to Encana. The Facility will have total processing capacity of 200 million cubic feet per day and is expected to start up in 2021. The first train will consist of a Siemens SGT-750 gas turbine driving two Dresser-Rand DATUM compressors for feed and sales gas compression, combined with a Siemens waste heat recovery unit for process heat. The second train will consist of a Siemens electric motor-driven DATUM compressor for refrigeration compression with Siemens variable frequency drive. "Siemens state-of-the-art SGT-750 gas turbine is the only twin-shaft engine in its power class with industry-leading fuel efficiency and one of the lowest emission profiles," said Patrice Laporte, Vice President, Oil & Gas for Siemens America. "The train configuration achieved by coupling the SGT-750 with the highly efficient DATUM compressors provides an excellent solution for the Encana's Pipestone gas compression service." The SGT-750 turbine has a proven track record of satisfied customers in both power generation and mechanical drive applications and is becoming an increasingly popular choice among facility operators. In 2015, Siemens supplied three pipeline compressor trains driven by SGT-750 gas turbines to Central America-based Fermaca for its El Encino – La Laguna pipeline project. In 2017, China's largest acrylic producer, Zhejiang Satellite Energy Co., selected Siemens to provide an SGT-750 gas turbine to drive two Siemens STC-SH single-shaft compressors for Phase II of its propylene dehydration plant. "We're providing all of the equipment for these two compression trains from one source, which lends testament to Encana's ongoing confidence in our equipment and Siemens' capability to offer a one-stop solution to our customers," said Matthew Chinn, Executive Vice President New Equipment Solutions for Siemens Oil and Gas. "Further to this, our solution is less capital intensive, due to the excellent attributes of the SGT-750 turbine's lower life cycle costs compared to competing turbines in the industry." With maximized uptime and a low environmental emission footprint, the SGT-750 offers customers a lightweight industrial gas turbine designed and developed to incorporate the size and weight advantages of an aeroderivative gas turbine while maintaining the robustness, flexibility, and longevity of traditional heavy-duty industrial gas turbines. The DATUM compressor line is known for its efficiency, reliability, and ease of maintenance which makes these compressors ideally suited for the un-spared feed / sales gas and refrigeration compression applications. In 2015, Encana purchased 10 DATUM compression trains for its Cutbank Ridge Program, designed for the long-term development of natural gas resources in Northeast British Columbia. Further information on compressors Contact Siemens Energy Media Relations Team mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (156 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com . Read more Read less Read more February 14, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy addresses the shortage of U.S. power transformers and invests in new factory March 16, 2023 Berlin Bringing wind energy to homes – for tomorrow's greener generation March 6, 2023 Houston, TX World’s first large-scale direct air capture plant to use Siemens Energy equipment December 15, 2022 Houston, TX How the U.S. energy transition is rewriting the history of electricity See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025