Cooperative Energy converts coal plant to natural gas for efficiency Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 5 min read Morrow Repower Project, USA: Forward-thinking power generation Gas turbines Energy transition Transform conventional power Power Cooperative Energy, a generation and transmission cooperative, has converted its existing coal-fired power plant to natural gas in the Morrow repowering project, with the goal of avoiding stranded assets and providing power with one of the most efficient gas power plants in North America. Contact us Customer challenge: North America's premier coal-to-gas transformation Cooperative Energy has completed an extensive project to convert its coal-fired R.D. Morrow, Sr. Generating Station, built in 1978, to natural gas, which involved numerous technical and logistical challenges. As a non-profit, member-owned utility, the company is ensuring that this conversion does not compromise its commitment to responsibility, reliability and affordability. The project will help to economically increase the production of cleaner power and provide the operational flexibility needed to complement the growth of renewable energy. POWER’s 2024 Reinvention Award The Morrow Repower Project, winner of POWER’s 2024 Reinvention Award, exemplified a strategic coal-to-gas conversion at a brownfield site that masterfully combined cutting-edge advanced technology with a commitment to financial and community stewardship. Learn more about the project Listen to THE POWER podcast The solution: Morrow enters a new era with the HL-class The solution involved the implementation of cutting-edge HL gas turbine technology to repower the plant's existing coal-fired steam turbines. The customer replaced an existing coal-fired generating unit with an SGT6-9000HL gas turbine. Together with the plant’s existing steam turbine, the plant is capable of producing 550 MW of electricity. To achieve the efficiency of new combined-cycle plants, and reduce its previous carbon footprint by 50%, the plant uses thermal power from the new gas turbine in its existing plant thermal systems. We provided a comprehensive long-term service agreement to maintain the peak operating efficiency of the gas turbine and generator throughout the project's life cycle. This contract covered parts, repairs, field services, program management, and offerings from the Omnivise Digital Services portfolio, which included remote monitoring and diagnostics. Our technology, designed to deliver dependable, cost-effective, and low-carbon power, was perfectly suited to the energy needs of Mississippi. This innovative project ensured the state's power generation was not only more sustainable but also economical and reliable. Find out more about the products and services applied: SGT-9000HL gas turbine The benefits: Building a decarbonized, sustainable future together with our customers The switch to natural gas will open a new chapter in power generation, offering clean and superior HL-class technology and paving the way for a true energy transition. It can now reduce carbon dioxide emissions by up to 2 million tonnes compared to a coal-fired plant annually. The new plant was completed ahead of schedule and below budget. With the completion of this power plant, the production of electricity with lower emissions and fast, flexible availability will harmonize with the deployment of renewable energy sources. About Cooperative Energy Cooperative Energy is a generation and transmission cooperative that works with 11 member-owned distribution electric cooperatives to provide safe, reliable, and affordable power to Mississippians. Visit website: Cooperative Energy | A Mississippi Cooperative Electric Utility Power Provider Read press release: COOPERATIVE ENERGY’S PLANT MORROW ENTERS NEW ERA | Cooperative Energy Is Coal-to-Gas repowering the right choice for you? Is your plant a good candidate for coal-to-gas repowering? Answer the following questions to find out. Contact us Read more Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq January 28, 2025 2 min read “Jump in with both feet“ – in manufacturing career 3 min read PacificLight, Singapore: Advanced Turbine Efficiency Package (ATEP) to improve power plant efficiency and power output July 23, 2024 3 min read Engineering career in the energy technology sector See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025