Siemens Energy partners with GIL Automation to expand local content development in Nigeria Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy partners with GIL Automation to expand local content development in Nigeria Press release July 1, 2021 Port Harcourt Siemens Energy and GIL Automation to improve local content in Nigeria Improving technology and skills transfer, through training and project collaboration Leveraging Siemens Energy’s Rotating Equipment Workshop in Port Harcourt Siemens Energy has signed an agreement with GIL Automation to boost the development of local content in Nigeria, in the form of training, skill developments and joint project execution, at the Siemens Energy Rotating Equipment Workshop in Port Harcourt. The agreement highlights Siemens Energy’s ongoing commitment to enhancing the development of the local economy through training, skills development, and investment. The agreement affirms Siemens energy’s continued compliance with the Nigerian Oil & Gas Industry Content Development Act. The agreement was signed at Siemens Energy’s Rotating Equipment Workshop in Port Harcourt, by Seun Suleiman, Managing Director of Siemens Energy Nigeria, and Lawal Gbolahan, Managing Director of GIL Automation, and witnessed by Engr Simbi Wabote, Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB). “Our goal at Siemens Energy is to Energize Society. This is more than just the products, services, and solutions we provide; it’s about benefiting and bringing value to the society in which we operate. Since we commissioned this facility in 2016, we have continued to invest in its capabilities and expand our service offering to our clients in the oil and gas and non-oil and gas sectors. We have also recruited and trained more local engineers to effectively operate the workshop and increase the amount of local content. I am extremely proud that this agreement with GIL Automation will add further value to the local economy through skills development, training, and jobs,” said Seun Suleiman. “Siemens Energy’s strong commitment to maximizing local content development has been a key factor in our partnership that started since 2008. Over the years, we have developed capacities and competencies in panel fabrication, electric motors, electrical & instrumentation and now moving into turbines and compressors. We’re proud to partner with companies that are dedicated to investing in the future of the Nigerian people,” said Gbolahan Lawal. “Today is a milestone where NCDMB is witnessing the partnership between Siemens Energy and a local company, Gil Automation which will involve transfer of knowledge and technologies by Siemens Energy and supporting Gil Automation to build capacity to take on more active roles in the industry. Looking at the operators in the audience, I implore you all to work with Siemens Energy and Gil Automations so more jobs can be created through this partnership and we can continue to build and upskill local capabilities,” said Simbi Wabote. Since the workshop opened in 2016 it has been a key facility to enable Siemens Energy to contribute towards Nigeria’s long-term developmental goals and localization agenda in the oil & gas sector. Ongoing investment in the facility has expanded its capabilities and provided greater training and skills development opportunities for Nigerians. Seun Suleiman, Managing Director of Siemens Energy Nigeria, Engr Simbi Wabote, Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), and Lawal Gbolahan, Managing Director of GIL Automation Contact Titilola Taiwo Siemens Energy Titilola.taiwo@siemens-energy.com +2348081061769 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (268 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025