Omnivise Process Information: collect, store, and visualize data Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Omnivise Process Information System Efficient operations data management for power generation Omnivise PI is our process information system that collects, stores and turns power plant data into actionable information, making it easy to track events and gain valuable insights about operation. With this fast, customizable and reliable access to data, Omnivise Process Information supports smarter decisions and smoother performance for the power generation industry. Explore Omnivise PI Transform data into actionable insights for informed decisions Gain immediate visibility to prevent costly downtimes Tailor data views for comprehensive monitoring New challenges for process information systems In today’s fast-paced power generation industry, the absence of real-time operation data visualization and management creates significant challenges. Without timely insights, inefficiencies can go undetected, and issues may escalate before they’re even noticed. This leads to unplanned downtimes, which can be costly and disruptive. Unexpected interruptions can quickly strain resources, inflate operational costs, and impact productivity. This context causes the need for tools that offer complete visibility and immediate insights to tackle these challenges head-on. Omnivise Process Information (Omnivise PI) provides comprehensive real-time operation data visualization and immediate insights, effectively helping you address the challenges of today's and future power generation industry. Monitor equipment performance and enhance power plant maintenance For companies in the power generation sector, monitoring every aspect of a plant is not just a benefit—it’s a necessity. Our process information system is designed specifically for this field, drawing on Siemens Energy’s expertise and experience in power generation. Unlike other PI systems, Omnivise Process Information is built with the complexities of power plants in mind, offering the precise functions and features that this industry demands. Because we’re dedicated to power generation, every feature in our process information system has been crafted to meet the unique challenges faced by our customers, providing a level of tailored insight that broad, multi-sector tools simply can’t match. Customize live and historic data visual High frequency data processing and visualization for efficiently handling and displaying large volumes of data with high update rates which includes spectrums, de-composing signals in different frequency bands sensor tables, and time signals. Customize live and historic data visual Omnivise Process Information provides a wide range of visualization, and analytics features which allow users to customize their experience and translate information into action. These features include object classes such as charts, spider-plots, sensor maps, histograms, thermometer indicators, heatmaps, gauge and bar indicators, among many others. Do service in your assets with high-frequency data visualization High frequency data processing and visualization for efficiently handling and displaying large volumes of data with high update rates which includes spectrums, de-composing signals in different frequency bands sensor tables, and time signals. Monitor signals instantly, on-site and remotely With Siemens Energy’s T3000 Replicated Archive solution, all the power plants signals are collected and stored automatically, and your team can visualize information in near-real time, regardless of if they are on site or remotely. Import and configure signals automatically With Omnivise Process Information, the control system’s signals are automatically configured and available for on-site and remote visualization, reducing your new process information system setup time and costs dramatically. Replicate visuals anywhere Your control system’s visuals can be exported to Omnivise Process Information, guaranteeing a consistent view from the power plant, the office or anywhere. Manage alarms, events, strategic reports Alarm and Events Gain complete oversight of the power plant’s operation with real-time alarms and events tracking. Reporting With Omnivise Process Information Reporting tool you can stay informed and in control to maximize efficiency and drive smarter decision-making. Performance Calculations Perform Event-based calculations or scheduled (per second, per minute, etc.) with an intuitive formula editor. Our calculation tool allows you to drag and drop your preferred operations and the signals you want combine into a new calculated output. Track metrics, analyze trends and customize your signals for more precise monitoring Transfer to cloud and analyses apps Easily transfer asset’s information to the cloud for secure storage and accessibility. Omnivise Process Information offers a panel to integrate for other digitalization applications, enabling advance analysis through specialized apps like vibrations analysis and fatigue monitoring. Unlock insights for proactive maintenance and enhanced asset reliability. Turning data into actionable insights Getting value from operations data is crucial to empower better decision-making and efficiency in power generation. For this reason, we offer a comprehensive solution for asset monitoring, both on-site and remotely. Watch the video! Real-time operation data management with advanced precision Omnivise Process Information supports the export of the distributed control system’s (DCS) visual interface, ensuring that everyone, from the plant operators to remote engineers, has a consistent view. This real-time, unified view helps teams respond faster and make informed decisions, whether they’re on the plant floor, in the office, or working remotely. Additionally, with the automatic import and configuration of asset signals into Omnivise Process Information, it is easy to set up both on-site and remote monitoring, significantly cutting down the time and costs associated with installation. While quality and functionality are paramount, cost efficiency is equally essential. Omnivise Process Information not only outperforms traditional solutions in terms of sector specialized features and ease of use but also comes at a more competitive price point. Our goal is to empower users with an effective, accessible solution that’s not just superior in capability but also more affordable, allowing our customers to maximize their investment without sacrificing performance. Learn more about our portfolio I&C Monitors and Advisors Learn more Vibration Monitoring Learn more Omnivise Digital Learn more Contact Have you become curious? Then contact us! With more than 4,000 successful control system projects worldwide we're a true partner in your success. Don’t hesitate to ask us about examples of projects that match your requirements. With our experts we’re ready for your next project! Send an e-mail Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read SWE Energie, Germany: Up-to-the-minute power generation with Omnivise T3000 control system 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation 3 min read NCPA, United States: DCS automation solution enhances their geothermal operations 3 min read Landsvirkjun, Iceland: State-of-the-art controls and electricals for high availability and grid support See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025