Predictive Emission Monitoring System (PEMS) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Predictive Emission Monitoring System (PEMS) Providing a view of your equipment to review & reduce emissions PEMS are the next level of emission monitoring in a cost effective and regulatory compliant manner. Compared to the traditional CEMS, PEMS do not use hardware-based sensors to measure emissions, but instead use unique algorithms to determine the emissions signature of an engine, based on the input parameters. The digital models include Siemens Energy’s unique OEM experience, allowing operators to significantly reduce the CAPEX and OPEX of emissions measurement activities. PEMS can be operated as redundant systems next to CEMS or as standalone certified systems without CEMS. . Predictive Emission Monitoring System (PEMS) Watch our Webinar to learn more about PEMS PEMS are the next level of emission monitoring in a cost effective and regulatory compliant manner. The digital models include Siemens Energy’s unique OEM experience, allowing operators to significantly reduce the CAPEX and OPEX of emissions measurement activities.  Watch the webinar recording to learn more about PEMS to reduce maintenance costs. Watch the video Option for a permanent solution Digital form called PEMS (Predictive Emissions Monitoring System) The PEMS product is a digital solution, taking engine operational data and feeding through a unique set of algorithms, determining the emissions signature of the engine. Prediction of exhaust emissions using system internal engine parameters (no extra hardware is needed on site). Our PEMS uses unique knowledge of the gas turbine product the algorithm is used for continous learning based on the existing historical data. PEMS is evaluating emissions in compliance with international standards e.g. EPA 40 CFR/ EU LCP/MCP, CEN TS 17198. Fleet Applicability Greenfield and brownfield projects Customers who operate our gas turbines. Customers or operators within the Power Generation and Oil and Gas industries who are looking to monitor and understand their emissions footprint (NO x , CO and CO 2 ). Customers or operators who want more insight into emissions levels who can then make more informed decisions about plant operations, with the potential to modify their operating profile to reduce emissions and fuel and maintenance costs. Customers who are looking for a lower cost alternative to Continuous Emissions Monitoring System (CEMS), which requires significant CAPEX and OPEX costs. Support Services & Implementation Embedded Controls Solution DCS-embedded: The algorithm can be embedded into the main turbine control system software e.g. PCS7, Allen-Bradley™ or Omnivise T3000. Emission data will be displayed in high resolution real-time directly on the Human-Machine-Interface (HMI); minor activities on site required. Edge-based: Algorithm embedded in the on-site data collector (Omnivise Edge) with dashboard access via browser. Cloud Based Solution With algorithms embedded within our known cloud platforms ‘Omnivise Cloud Platform’, data received via remote connection. Integrated within our known digital frontend platforms ‘MyHealth’ or ‘Omnivise’; therefore, providing data and the ability to analyze data straight to your chosen device. Benefits Emissions calculations without additional instrumentation requirement at site. Significant reduction in operational and maintenance costs compared to a traditional hardware-based based emissions monitoring system. The lower CAPEX and OPEX, estimated 50-80% compared to CEMS lifecycle cost. Ultimate confidence in the PEMS model using thermodynamic knowledge of the engine, as well as verification of several years of reliable factory test data on every unit shipped, as well as access our fleet and field operating experience and data. PEMS do not require trained and skilled operators. It is possible for our PEMS solution to run in highly contaminated flue gases and harsh environmental conditions, since the solution is completely digitalized in nature, therefore negating the requirement for costly SIL/ATEX rated hardware. PEMS can be used by the customer as well as Siemens Energy in potentially identifying engine performance issues using the associated PEMS data for fault finding and analysis. Proven Project experience all over the world Customers around the globe relay on Continuous Emission Monitoring System and Predictive Emissions Monitoring System from Siemens Energy. Download PEMS-Flyer PDF (999 KB) Download Get in touch We appreciate your interest in our product. If you have questions or need more information, feel free to contact us! Send an e-mail Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025