Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage I CCUS Technology Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS) CCUS technology is crucial for cutting CO₂ emissions At Siemens Energy, we believe in the potential of Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS). Advancing this technology is essential for a sustainable future. By partnering with customers, CCUS providers, and policymakers, we lead in decarbonizing the energy sector. Together, we are building a more sustainable world for future generations. Let’s turn ambition into action and create a cleaner, greener planet. The climate imperative for Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage To effectively combat climate change and reach net-zero emissions, a multitude of technologies are essential. CCUS will play a pivotal role in reducing CO₂ emissions by leveraging existing infrastructure. The International Energy Agency (IEA) underscores the necessity of CCUS, emphasizing the need to capture approximately 1 gigatonne of CO₂ annually by 2030 to align with international climate objectives, such as those set by the Paris Agreement. Integration design studies are important in refining CO₂ capture plants in terms of size, cost, and efficiency. Our equipment, including steam and gas compressors, facilitates CCUS deployment across the entire spectrum, encompassing capture, storage, and utilization. The process of capturing CO₂ after combustion is notably energy-demanding, relying on electricity and low-pressure steam usually sourced from the power plant, which can diminish the plant's overall efficiency and power output. By optimizing steam turbine configurations and harnessing waste heat from CO₂ capture and compression , we can improve the power plant output, efficiency, and functionality of these plants. Learn about CCUS options. Get in touch Reducing emissions from power generation and industry Enabling clean hydrogen production Direct air capture and bioenergy with CCS (BECCS) Solutions for transportation and storage of CO₂ CCUS can be added to new build or be retrofitted to existing fossil fuel-based power plants and industrial facilities, capturing CO₂ emissions that would otherwise be released into the atmosphere. This is particularly important for sectors where emissions are hard to abate, such as cement and steel production. Hydrogen is a clean fuel that can be produced using fossil fuels with CCUS, known as blue hydrogen. This process captures the CO₂ produced during hydrogen production, making it a low-carbon alternative to green hydrogen produced from renewable energy sources until enough resources for green hydrogen are constructed. CCUS technologies can also capture CO₂ directly with direct air capture (DAC) or from bioenergy processes (BECCS). These methods can remove CO₂ from the atmosphere, helping to balance emissions that are difficult to eliminate.  Furthermore the synergistic approach of Direct Air Capture combined with carbon sequestration (DACCS) is acknowledged for its potential to generate negative emissions, representing a robust, enduring approach to Carbon Dioxide Removal. In addition to our comprehensive approach to Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS), we are also focusing on the system design aspects, including liquefication and drying. These processes are crucial for the efficient handling and storage of captured CO₂. Liquefication allows for the CO₂ to be transported more easily and stored in a more compact form, while drying ensures that the CO₂ is free from moisture, which can cause corrosion and other issues in storage and transportation systems. Partner with Siemens Energy to decarbonize the energy sector The global energy landscape largely relies on fossil fuels, by 2035, DNV estimates ~30% of electricity will still come from fossil fuels (Energy Transition Outlook 2024) . An abrupt switch to renewables is not yet feasible. CCUS-equipped gas-fired power generation complements renewable energy, ensuring availability and security when renewables are offline. We are leading in the development of CCUS technology, addressing climate change and supporting the transition to a low-carbon future. We have explored carbon management technologies for decades and continue to find ways to support the energy sector's transition with CCUS. Our extensive knowledge of energy systems allows us to work with industry partners to integrate carbon capture technology and create comprehensive CCUS solutions. Tailored CCUS solutions for a sustainable future Different technologies cater to various industries' needs, addressing their specific emission sources and regulatory environments. We  collaborate with leading carbon capture providers to deliver efficient, reliable customized solutions. Our strategic partnerships, combined with our extensive experience in energy technology , enable us to access cutting-edge technologies from leading suppliers. This allows us to concentrate on our core competency of integrating power plants with capture plants, thereby ensuring optimal efficiency and asset utilization. New white paper: CCUS technology landscape and infrastructure Discover how Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage helps achieve net-zero emissions and the needed infrastructure. Sign up for free download What is Carbon Capture, Usage, and Storage (CCUS)? CCUS is a key technological innovation aimed at reducing atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO₂) emissions. By capturing CO₂ from industrial processes, air and power and heat generation, CCUS prevents this greenhouse gas from impacting climate change. The captured CO₂ is then either repurposed in various industries or safely stored underground. CCUS is essential for lowering emissions in challenging sectors like steel and cement manufacturing and is a complement of sustainable low-carbon electricity and hydrogen production. As a method for atmospheric CO₂ removal, CCUS is integral to achieving net-zero emissions and ensuring long-term energy security. How does CCUS technology work? 1 Capture CO₂ Advanced capture technologies such as pre-combustion, post-combustion, DAC and oxy-fuel combustion of CO₂ from the atmosphere are employed to intercept CO₂ emissions at their source, including industrial and power generation facilities. 2 Utilize CO₂ Once captured, CO₂ can be put to work in various sectors, being used in the chemical, and food and beverage industries, thus turning a waste product into a valuable commodity. 3 Store CO₂ Transportation to secure storage locations and subsequent underground sequestration of CO₂ in geological formations ensures that it is contained and does not re-enter the atmosphere. Transforming challenges into opportunities: The promising future of CCUS CCUS offers significant potential for a sustainable future. Although high costs, infrastructure needs, and regulatory uncertainties pose challenges, they also drive innovation. Government support, such as tax credits and carbon pricing, can spur progress. Additionally, international collaboration and investment in R&D are essential for advancing CCUS technologies, enhancing their efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Embracing these opportunities will promote CCUS adoption, cut carbon emissions, and support a sustainable planet. “ As a trusted partner, we help our customers select the most appropriate technologies for their specific needs. By partnering with leading carbon capture providers, we combine our energy technology and infrastructure expertise with their specialized knowledge to deliver efficient and reliable customized solutions. Frida Bjoerneld, Vice President of Product Management, Siemens Energy, Gas Services Sustainable alternative fuels for gas turbines Transform your energy systems with hydrogen, methanol, ammonia, and HVO. Our gas turbines running on sustainable alternative fuels offer flexible, carbon-neutral solutions to complement intermittent renewable energy sources like wind and solar. Learn more Are you interested in our product portfolio? Gas turbines Aeroderivative, industrial and heavy-duty gas turbines up to 593 MW Learn more about gas turbines Combined cycle power plants (CCPPs) Highly efficient power plants coupling gas and steam turbines Learn more about CCPPS Compressor solutions and services Single shaft, integrally geared and reciprocating compressors Learn more about compressors Steam turbines Reliable steam turbines for improved efficiency Learn more about steam turbines CCUS reference projects and case studies 8 Rivers and Siemens Energy at the ARC Forum Peter Rice of Siemens Energy and Damien Beauchamp of 8 Rivers discuss CCUS Technologies at the ARC Forum 2025. Read more 8 Rivers and Siemens Energy form strategic partnership 8 Rivers and Siemens Energy have formed a strategic partnership to develop advanced direct-fired supercritical CO2 turbines for a variety of power sources. Read more Get answers: FAQs on carbon capture, utilization and storage What is carbon capture? CCS is a technology that aims to reduce atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO₂) levels by capturing CO₂ from industrial processes and power generation, thereby preventing it from contributing to climate change. The captured CO₂ is then transported to safe storage sites and sequestered underground in geological formations to ensure it does not re-enter the atmosphere. Why is carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) important? A wide range of technologies and strategies are needed to tackle climate change and achieve net-zero emissions. CCUS stands out as a critical technology in this mission, providing a key solution to significantly reduce (CO₂) emissions while maintaining the use of critical energy infrastructure. CCUS involves capturing carbon dioxide from sources such as power plants and either reusing or storing them to prevent them from entering the atmosphere. What is the difference between CCUS and CCS? The difference between CCUS and CCS lies in the utilization aspect. While CCS focuses solely on the capture and storage of CO₂, CCUS involves the use of the captured CO₂ in various industries, turning it into a valuable commodity. How is Siemens Energy working on CCUS? At Siemens Energy, we are committed to advancing CCUS technologies through strategic partnerships and by leveraging our extensive experience in the power industry. Our capabilities extend beyond the core power plant infrastructure, where we can also offer integration of carbon capture equipment into existing and new facilities to ensure optimal performance. Our portfolio elements are broad and include compression and liquefaction solutions, control and automation solutions. In addition, our extensive experience as a service provider enables us to offer a comprehensive range of service solutions tailored to the specific needs of our customers. Get in touch with us For information and questions, our support team is available 24/7 to assist you in English, Spanish, and German. First name Last name Email Phone number Company name Country/region Country/region Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Ascension Island Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius & Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See / Vatican City Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Côte d’Ivoire Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea, Democratic People's Rep Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia/South Sandwich South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St. Barts St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Martin St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Eswatini Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine Union of the Comoros United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay US Minor Outlying Islands USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Job role Job role Corporate Engineering Operations/maintenance Procurement/purchasing Administrative Business development/sales Consulting Finance Human resources IT Legal Marketing Media/communication Product management Production Project management Quality assurance Research/student Sustainability Facility management Investor relations/analyst Other Is your inquiry related to installed equipment? Yes No Industry (Select up to three) Industry (Select up to three) Automotive Banking, financial institutions, and insurances Buildings and construction Cement Ceramic and glass Chemicals Chemicals - biochemicals Chemicals - petrochemicals Chemicals - rubber and plastics Conventional power generation Data center Food and beverage Healthcare Industrial gases and air separation Maritime Mining, metals and minerals Mobility and transport infrastructure Oil and gas downstream Oil and gas midstream Oil and gas upstream Other Power distribution Power transmission Power-to-X and e-fuels Public sector Pulp and paper Renewable power generation Research and education Rubber and plastics Semiconductor Water and wastewater management Please let us know how we can help you Marketing consent I would like to receive marketing information from Siemens Energy based on my personal interests and give my consent as described in detail here. Send Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025