Ammonia Cracking Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Ammonia cracking Overcoming the challenges of the hydrogen supply chain Distributed ammonia cracking is a game changer Our unique, distributed ammonia cracking solution is a critical component in building a reliable, cost-efficient green hydrogen supply chain as part of the energy transition. With our ammonia decomposition technology, we reduce the delivered cost of hydrogen to applications such as hydrogen refueling stations, off-grid power supply, maritime, and industrial users. We are building a prototype system in the UK which cracks ammonia and purifies hydrogen to PEM fuel cell quality. Our aim is to help the rollout of hydrogen – by utilizing an already existing and mature infrastructure for ammonia storage, transport, and handling. How we got started 2021 – born in Siemens Energy Ventures 2022 – Siemens Energy-sponsored accelerator program 2023 – won InnovateUK, grant for prototype 2024 – launching as spin-off venture What we do Make green ammonia from air, water, and low-cost renewable electricity Giga-scale blue/ green NH₃ projects coming online by 2025 for H₂ import. Transport and store ammonia in mature, low-cost, existing infrastructure 20 million tons already being shipped internationally per year. Release H₂ when and where needed – via ammonia cracking solution Distributed ammonia cracking and purification delivering high-purity hydrogen at less than €8 per kg H₂. Why use Ammonia? Lowest cost hydrogen carrier It is widely available It carries a lot of H₂ Packaging blue and green hydrogen in the form of ammonia is widely forecasted to be the lowest cost method for large-scale hydrogen storage and transport . "Low-carbon fossil-based ammonia is expected to have a market value of around USD 350-400 per tonne of ammonia [2.0-2.3 USD/kgH₂]. In the long term, renewable ammonia will probably be available at a cost below USD 400 per tonne of ammonia. Thus, ammonia provides a cost-competitive alternative to fossil fuels in the long term." – International Renewable Energy Agency, May 2022 Innovation outlook: renewable ammonia Current and future production costs of renewable ammonia, compared with production cost range for low-carbon fossil ammonia Comparison of renewable ammonia with other fuels based on the price per unit of energy Source (both graphics): Low-carbon fossil ammonia from Haldor Topsøe et al. (2020). Fossil fuel values are based on average values (2010-2020); see IRENA and Methanol Institute (2021). Methanol cost values are based on IRENA Methanol Institute (2021). Bio-ethanol and bio-methane estimates are based on IRENA data. With its well-established production process and existing infrastructure for ammonia handling and distribution, ammonia is becoming the first widely available hydrogen carrier . Ammonia is the carrier molecule chosen for nearly all hydrogen import and export projects that are in the pipeline until 2030. "The first of many proposed multi-gigawatt renewable ammonia production plants are already under construction. Renewable ammonia is expected to dominate all new ammonia production capacity after 2025." – International Renewable Energy Agency, May 2022 Innovation outlook: renewable ammonia Expected ammonia production capacity up to 2050 for the 1.5°C scenario Source: IRENA, 2019b Ammonia (NH₃) consists of one nitrogen atom and three hydrogen atoms – meaning it can store a lot of hydrogen per unit volume compared to other substances. By using ammonia as a carrier, a truck can deliver ~10x as much H₂. The graphic shows the example of a one-week supply of H₂ for a 1000kg/day hydrogen refueling station. “ Ammonia is gaining traction as a method for importing clean hydrogen to Europe- an essential step to drive the energy transition. This innovative ammonia cracker could be a game-changer for scaling up and overcoming challenges of hydrogen storage and transport. Kendra Rauschenberger General Partner at Siemens Energy Ventures Key applications of distributed ammonia cracking Industry without H₂ pipline access Off-grid power On-board cracking (Maritime) Hydrogen refueling station Contact us Co-founder / CEO Dr. Zac Cesaro Zac is the Programme Manager of Ammonia Cracking at Siemens Energy. He has his PhD in Energy Systems Engineering from the University of Oxford, where he investigated the role of hydrogen and ammonia in future energy systems. At Siemens, he also worked at the world’s first power-to-ammonia-to-power demonstration plant, built at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in Oxfordshire. zac.cesaro@siemens-energy.com Zac Cesaro TEDtalk Co-founder / Chief Engineer Priya Gajadhar Priya is leading the detailed engineering for the distributed ammonia cracking solutions. She has a B.Sc in Chemical Engineering and over 10 years of experience designing and building hydrogen projects at both large and small scales. priya.gajadhar.ext@siemens-energy.com Co-Head of Research and Development Dr. Claus Krusch Claus is a Senior Key Expert Combustion in Siemens Energy. He has almost 20 years of working for Siemens AG and Siemens Energy in the field of high temperature materials and components, and broad expertise in the areas of design, materials technology, manufacturing technology and product realization. He has his PhD in Mechanical Engineering. claus.krusch@siemens-energy.com Co-Head of Research and Development Bastian Preusser Bastian is a Development Engineer in Siemens Energy. He has 10 years working at Siemens Energy and an expertise on steam turbine plus gas turbine core technology. He is a mechanical engineer and technical product designer. bastian.preusser@siemens-energy.com Bastian Preußer FAQs Is Ammonia toxic? Ammonia is indeed hazardous, especially if released in large quantities. Generally, ammonia’s safety challenges are manageable through widely used industrial best practices and standards which allow over 200 million tonnes of ammonia to be safely produced in over 60 countries of varying income levels. Many millions of tonnes are stored and transported every year via truck, pipeline, and tanker ships. Compared with other toxic liquefied and pressurized gases used throughout the world, the number of accidents and deaths caused by ammonia are proportionately very low. Nevertheless, like hydrogen, ammonia is a substance that needs careful safety measures and control. Ammonia should only be handled by trained operators in a controlled setting and relevant PPE. Ammonia can be fatal if inhaled at high concentrations. However, its pungent odor can be detected in concentrations as low as 5 ppm, far below the dangerous levels. In addition, since gaseous ammonia is less dense than air, it can dissipate very quickly. How do I store Ammonia? At distributed scales, ammonia is most often stored as a liquid at ambient temperature in a mildly pressurised tank (similar to LPG – 5-15 barg depending on the ambient temperature). At larger scales, ammonia is stored at a liquid at atmospheric pressure and refrigerated to –34C. Tanks for storing ammonia are widely available and low cost. Today, ammonia is often stored and used at industrial food processing facilities and ice-skating rinks as a refrigerant. Why not use Ammonia directly as a fuel? While some applications are indeed investigating ammonia as a direct fuel (such as large reciprocating maritime engines), ammonia presents difficulties with combustion, including slow flame speed for small engines and high NOx emissions. Therefore, many applications are looking at hydrogen as fuel which is more easily combusted and can also be used to directly generate electricity via a fuel cell. For vehicles like trucks and buses, the hydrogen fuel cell is an efficient and mature technology, and the challenges with onboard hydrogen have been solved, while not yet for ammonia. What is the position of the EU on Ammonia cracking? Almost all EU Member States recognize the important role of hydrogen in their national energy and climate plans for the 2021-2030 period. About half have explicit hydrogen-related objectives, focused primarily on transport and industry.  Many countries are now explicitly targeting hydrogen import via ammonia, with Germany's latest "National Hydrogen Strategy Update" (July 2023) states "According to the Federal Government’s assessment based on an analysis of the current scenarios, around 50 to 70 percent (45 to 90 TWh) of the 95 to 130 TWh demand forecast for 2030, will be covered by imports from abroad (in the form of hydrogen and hydrogen derivatives)." National Reform Program 2020 - The National Hydrogen Strategy (In German) What is Siemens Energy Venture Building (VB)? VB is a key area of the SE Ventures department, the entrepreneurial heart of Siemens Energy, founded in 2020; that builds and pilots and invests in ventures that will transform energy systems and will help fight climate change. SEV VB builds ventures by identifying new markets and building teams that have the potential to create and scale our next high growth business. More Here Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025