Orlando Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Innovation Center Orlando at the Orlando Innovation Campus Transforming the future of energy Welcome to Siemens Energy – leading the global change towards a more sustainable future. With innovation at our core, we create energy solutions that are reliable, secure, sustainable, and affordable.  With our portfolio of products, solutions, and services, we cover almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. At Siemens Energy, we’re dedicated to nurturing talent that can confidently face the challenges posed by the energy transition. Through our specialized training and robust internship programs, the Innovation Center Orlando (ICO) strengthens specialized skillsets and creates highly skilled teams. By leveraging our collective expertise, we develop clean energy technologies in collaboration with local ecosystems, focusing on the commercialization of innovative solutions to accelerate the energy transition. Our Innovation Centers are designed to solve the energy trilemma by enhancing the portfolio based on their Fields of Action. Recognizing that a sustainable future hinges on reliability and accessibility, we present the ICO, a hub of creativity and collaboration. The ICO is one of four Siemens Energy Innovation Centers globally, with the other locations in Abu Dhabi, Berlin, and Shenzhen. We are at the forefront of transforming the energy landscape, and as a key part of the Orlando Innovation Campus (OIC), our mission is to drive the energy transition through cutting-edge research, development, and commercialization of innovative solutions. By leveraging the resources of the Technology Application Center and the Additive Manufacturing Application Center, we are accelerating the pace of change and setting new standards in the energy sector. Our center is dedicated to fostering customer cocreation , enabling us to collaborate closely with customers, industrial partners, academia, and research centers. Together, we tackle the world’s most pressing energy challenges with Power-to-X and Decarbonized Heat technologies such as Direct Air Carbon Capture and the Inductive E Heater . These advancements are crucial in our efforts towards sustainability and decarbonization . 5 Fields of Action 1. Power-to-X Converting renewable power electro- chemically into higher value products. 2. 24/7 Carbon Free Energy The conversion of electrical energy into a form in which it can be stored until converted back. 3. Resilient Grid and Reliability Using various technologies to enable more efficient electric 4. Decarbonized Heat and Industrial Processes Improving the generation from heat with substantial reduction toward zero or negative emission of greenhouse gases. 5. Conditioned-based Service Interventions Using digital advancements to expand our service offerings and increase customer value. New energy technologies Inductive e-heater The E-Heater aims to electrify and decarbonize industrial heating processes by developing large-scale induction electrical heaters with integrated thermal energy storage. The project has successfully validated the electromagnetic inductive heater concept and is now expanding through partnerships to test a full-scale 7.5 MW pilot, with plans to convert coal power plants into Large Duration Energy Storage facilities. Direct air carbon capture (DAC) The Innovation Center Orlando is developing a Direct Air Carbon Capture (DAC) solution to pull CO2 directly from the atmosphere for reuse or permanent underground sequestration, addressing the limitations of conventional abatement technologies like wind and solar in achieving Net Zero emissions. The successful completion of a DAC demonstrator unit within a year has positioned Siemens Energy among a select group of global companies capturing CO2, with further plans to scale up the technology through partnerships and feasibility studies. Siemens Energy Transformation Challenge An annual Siemens Energy Transformation Challenge is an open and inclusive program in Mexico aims to gather innovative technology ideas from young talent and students and recruit them into our local initiative. Contact us to learn more Innovationcenter.us@siemens-energy.com Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025