Subsea solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Subsea solutions Supporting energy production in challenging environments We energize and digitalize Subsea We at Siemens Energy's Subsea business unit have a portfolio tailored to support the industry on this journey. From our wide range of connectors and sensors to our large-scale subsea power distribution systems, we deliver the products and solutions that ensure our customers’ systems are connected and energized and that the large amount of data collected subsea is accurately and timely delivered to a control room or into a cloud solution. The end result for the customer is increased production, greater availability of systems, longer uptime and reduced CAPEX and OPEX. Our 40-year track record in serving the subsea oil and gas industry is a solid foundation for also supporting the offshore and subsea renewables industry in the coming energy transition. Decarbonization, digitalization, and electrification are three major trends in the oil and gas industry. These trends will influence the way forward with regard to infrastructure, products and processes across the oil and gas market. In addition, we are seeing the emergence of offshore and subsea renewable power generation and energy production and storage. Contact us Powering installations on the seabed Products and systems Lifecycle services Energy transition Powering installations on the seabed Enabling large-scale subsea processing by powering the subsea fields of the future – down to 3,000 meters. Subsea PowerGRID Subsea Transformer The subsea transformer is the main interface between a subsea transmission line and a subsea power distribution system.  As a hermetically sealed, fluid-filled and pressure-compensated unit the subsea transformer enables long step-outs, providing the right voltage level to a wide range of consumers, like subsea switchgear, subsea compressors and subsea pumps. Read more Subsea Switchgear The subsea switchgear is the unit responsible for power distribution and protection of other units in a subsea power grid. Read more Subsea Variable-Speed Drive The subsea variable speed drive (VSD) is the unit responsible for supplying power and protecting subsea motors for compressors and pumps. It uses the field proven Siemens Perfect Harmony multi-cell topology with bypass capability, which provides high levels of redundancy and reliability. Read more Subsea Power Control The Subsea Power Control system is a very important component of the Subsea Power Grid. It ensures several important functions in the subsea power  distribution. Read more Subsea PowerGRID Digital Twin The subsea power grid components are “born digital” and equipped with sensors and high-quality data acquisition to enable full operational digital twins of the subsea power units. The data is stored in the cloud and on premise and data analytics is applied to the data to produce a hierarchy of health Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) for the subsea assets. This gives a very high level of transparency into the equipment and enables cost efficient operation and maintenance of the subsea power system. Subsea DigiGRID DigiGRID Connect/Control Subsea DigiGRID is a qualified generic control, safety, and Digital Twin system(s) intended for and used to control any part in a subsea process setup. The main intention for a Subsea DigiGRID implementation is to extend the interfaces for a regular topside Safety and Automation Setup (SAS) and Digital twin system(s) to the seabed. A good example for such an application is a subsea factory setup, including, pumps, water treatment systems, separators, and electrical power distribution. Read more DigiGRID EDU-3 The main functionality of DigiGRID EDU-3 is to switch several identical and independent power outlets in a controlled manner, and at the same time independently monitor the quality of the power delivered to the outlets. Read more Products and systems Our subsea products and systems portfolio covers a broad spectrum of applications. Going far beyond power and distribution, it comprises everything from pioneering technologies for subsea control and surveillance to exemplary service and support based on extensive marinization expertise. As a result, we are able to provide answers over the entire life of the field. Connectors Sensors Pipeline Heating Systems Articles and white papers Improving the economics of brownfield platform electrification with subsea transformers & high voltage, wet mate connectors Power generation represents most Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions in the offshore oil & gas sector. On the UK Continental Shelf (UKCS), offshore platforms produce around 18 million tons of CO2 emissions annually. It is estimated that around 75% of this is associated with electricity generation, primarily from gas turbine generators (GTGs). Read the full article here Putting power on the seabed: Edging towards a subsea powerhouse Ten years ago, a future where subsea fields and their power-hungry process equipment could be fully electrified, enabling long step-outs to tap remote reserves with lean new infrastructure architectures, lit the fuse for a spate of investment in subsea power distribution. Read the full article here Contact us How can we help you? Send us an email Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025