SGen-2000P generator series Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SGen-2000P generator series Innovative mix of proven design concepts with air-pressurized cooling technology for flexible operation Innovative technology mix makes this generator stand out from the crowd Our latest product innovation, the SGen-2000P series, combines air cooling with water cooling technology. Pressurized air-cooled generators are replacing indirectly hydrogen-cooled machines to significantly reduce plant complexity. They achieve efficiency and power levels comparable to indirectly hydrogen-cooled generators with ratings of up to 560 MVA. Pressurized air-cooled generators are used in simple cycle, combined cycle, and steam power plants, as well as in synchronous condensing applications. Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Highlights of the SGen-2000P generator series Proven Global Vacuum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) and water-cooled technology Combining GVPI stators with water cooling technology enables uniform temperatures and low stress levels to enhance operational flexibility. The proven reliability is greater than 99.9% for more than 1,700 stator windings between 10 and 22 kV with an output of up to 650 MVA. Our fleet leader has over 150,000 operating hours and 3,320 start/stop cycles. High operational flexibility Modern grids require high operational flexibility because of the increased integration of renewable energy sources. Our design supports high ramp-up/down rates and frequent start/stop cycles while keeping thermal mechanical stress in the stator windings low. MICALASTIC® insulation system Our proven MICALASTIC® insulation system and Global Vacuum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) technology ensure maximum electrical endurance and outstanding availability. Your benefits: Insensitive to thermal cycling No maintenance required Very low mechanical stress during operation Non-flammable and self-extinguishing; no fire-extinguishing system needed Lower total cost of ownership The absence of hydrogen gas reduces the complexity of auxiliaries as well as the cost of service and operation. There is no need for hazardous operational areas around the generator. Arriving almost fully assembled, the generator is designed for easy on-site installation and includes many provisions for accessible maintenance. Proven components Our generators maintain a high level of common parts across the portfolio (e.g. stator core assembly and rotor). The part and component re-use improves the availability of spare parts and increases the quality in manufacturing and assembling components from our suppliers, at our factory, as well as on site. High operational flexibility Global VacuumPressure Impregnation (GVPI) Service and maintenance State-of-the-art manufacturing Hydrogen eliminated High operational flexibility The SGen-2000P generator offers an innovative mix of verified design features in operating ranges typically reserved for hydrogen-cooled generators. The water-cooled stator and air pressurization system allow this series of generators to operate within an extended performance range and with maximum load-shift flexibility. Automated variable air pressurization Depending on load demand, the generator is automatically pressurized up to 1 bar (gauge) to control rotor temperature within industry standards. Water-cooled stator Water-cooled stator bars minimize thermal-mechanical stresses in the end winding allowing for unlimited operational flexibility across the design power range. Global Vacuum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) wound stator cores The SGen-2000P implements technology featuring the latest verified design with more than 1,700 GVPI stators in operation across all operating ranges and a fleet-leading water-cooled GVPI stator with over 151,000 hours of operation and more than 3,320 start/stop cycles with no indication of thermal-mechanical stress-related issues. Without the application of hydrogen, the SGen-2000P series offers you the added benefit of unstaffed operation, e.g. for synchronous condenser applications. Global Vaccuum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) stator cores Our patented MICALASTIC® insulation system using GVPI is highly resistant to mechanical and thermal stresses while featuring excellent electrical properties. Pressurized-air rotor cooling Our patent-pending load-dependent air pressurization system enables rotor cooling during flexible operating conditions. Service and maintenance The SGen-2000P generator series was designed for simplified service and maintenance. Along with eliminating hydrogen-related generator auxiliaries, various service-friendly design solutions have been implemented. Its components have been tried and tested over decades of operation, achieving a reliability rate of more than 99.9%. To minimize downtime, the maintenance intervals have been aligned with those of the prime mover and now allow for longer intervals between servicing than ever before. The rotor is designed for lifetime operation without removal for service. Short construction and commissioning times Our generators arrive on site almost fully assembled with the rotor installed – a design feature that simplifies the installation process. Our certified engineers have extensive experience in commissioning and help you to achieve faster start-up times and smooth operation. The SGen-2000P is designed for easy access. The many manholes installed allow for the majority of maintenance to be completed requiring very little generator disassembly. Condition-based maintenance Besides standard inspection scopes and intervals, you also have the option of implementing a condition-based maintenance plan using customized installed instrumentation, component analytics, and a remaining life counter for better predictions. Based on advanced data analytics performed by experts in our network of power diagnostics centers, we can advise you on a maintenance schedule according to your specific operation conditions and needs. State-of-the-art manufacturing Our reliable and robust generator is the result of our manufacturing and engineering design teams working in close collaboration throughout its development. By applying the latest digital technologies, our manufacturing facilities stepped up to create a world-class product for you with excellent lead times. Manufacturing excellence Our SGen-2000P generator design focuses on the strengths of our manufacturing facilities using tried-and-tested manufacturing processes and newly co-developed processes to efficiently build generators for you. Manufacturing technology Our manufacturing facilities implement as many automated processes as possible, resulting in a high ratio of repetition in the construction of our generators. Automated processes are key to building high-quality, robust generators that operate reliably for you. Hydrogen eliminated Our SGen-2000P series combines two proven technologies in one innovative concept. The generator operates with air up to 560 MVA and features variable pressurization with water-cooled stator windings. This enables the flexible operation demanded by today's evolving electrical grids. By eliminating hydrogen gas auxiliary systems, the SGen-2000P series' operating and maintenance costs are lower than those of traditional hydrogen-cooled products in this output class. Water-cooled Global Vacuum Pressure Impregnation (GVPI) stator Directly water-cooled stator bars protect against thermal-mechanical stress-related issues that are challenging for indirectly cooled coils in a highly cyclic environment. Hydrogen systems eliminated The SGen-2000P eliminates all hydrogen-related systems – seal oil, hydrogen and inert gas systems – maintaining only a pressurized air skid and a stator water system. Thereby, the hazardous system requirements that applied to the use of hydrogen are avoided – another huge benefit for our customers. Technical data SGen5-2000P SGen6-2000P Frequency 50 Hz 60 Hz Apparent power 370–545 MVA 370–560 MVA Efficiency up to 99% up to 99% Designed for power factor 0.80 0.85 Terminal voltage up to 20 kV up to 20 kV Design insulation class Class F Class F Weight (approx.) up to 370 t up to 370 t The SGen-2000P is suitable for the following applications: Gas and steam power plant Synchronous condenser Pressurized air generators fit most steam and gas turbines on the market Flexible gas and steam power plants will remain a key component of a demand-driven power supply. They form the solid foundation of a diverse and clean energy mix – indispensable for meeting the world's current and future challenges. Our pressurized air-cooled generators complement the turbine packages of any manufacturer and meet grid and environmental requirements as well as your individual needs. Generators for steam power plant Our generators can be flexibly integrated into combined cycle power plants or steam tailing applications. Generators for combined cycle power plant We supply generators for large simple or combined cycle power plants, suitable for peak, intermediate or base load duty, as well as cogeneration applications. Transmission grid stabilization Rotating synchronous condensers are a proven, reliable solution for ancillary grid services guaranteeing frequency and voltage stability, plus the ability to ride through grid disturbances. Today’s emerging power systems are dominated by converter connected renewable power producers which are susceptible to decreased short circuit power and system inertia, making them more sensitive to electrical faults and sudden load imbalances. Rotating synchronous condensers are significantly less sensitive to these issues. Grid benefits Synchronous condensers have the unique ability to respond inherently without any time delay to fault or load imbalance events. They increase the short circuit power by their overload capability and improve the rate of change of frequency (RoCoF) by the physical inertia contribution. Furthermore synchronous condensers provide dynamic voltage control by supplying and absorbing reactive power to and from the grid. Technology explained A synchronous condenser solution comprises a generator connected to the high voltage network through a transformer. It is started by either an electric motor or a static frequency converter. Once synchronized with the network, the generator behaves like a synchronous motor without load, compensating reactive power and stabilizing the system, in case of a fault or imbalance events. Find out more about our products You would like a brochure, are interested in technical details or further information? Please visit our download section below. Brochures SGen-2000P Factsheet PDF (4 MB) Download SGen-3000W Factsheet PDF (4 MB) Download MICALASTIC Factsheet PDF (2 MB) Download Technical papers and press releases Technical papers Proven in commercial operation: reference highlights From our fleet of more than 2,500 large generators operating worldwide, there are more than 900 hydrogen-cooled, and more than 200 water-cooled generators. The best technologies from our operating hydrogen- and water-cooled fleet have been combined to develop the SGen-2000P. Shuweihat S3, UAE (2014) Cape Canaveral Energy Center, United States (2013) io.visual.referencemap Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025