Automation and Control Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Solutions and products for automation and control Better performance, efficiency, and transparency in vessel operation Safety and efficiency are our top priorities in vessel automation. Our advanced solutions ensure continuous monitoring and reliable control of all onboard processes. They optimize operations and eliminate potential faults through a standardized automation concept. Simplified system overviews provide the crew with a solid decision-making basis under all circumstances​. Automation and control solutions at a glance We offer state-of-the-art automation and control technology that assists crews in tackling ever more complex technical processes on board – and for almost any kind of vessel. SISHIP EcoMAIN SISHIP EcoMAIN assists you with ship management decisions by providing operating data from all relevant onboard systems and equipment on a joint data platform. SISHIP IMAC As a monitoring system, SISHIP IMAC provides clear visualization and seamless monitoring of a large number of fully automated processes running in parallel on ships of all types and sizes. OBTS and LBTS OBTS and LBTS provide training in operational situations under realistic conditions on the actual automation software – either as onboard training (OBTS), or as land-based training (LBTS). EMCS Our engineering, monitoring, and control system EMCS has been developed to ensure efficient and safe operation of all vital subsystems of submarines. IPMS IPMS, Siemens Energy's integrated automation system for naval surface vessels, features redundant monitoring and control of the propulsion system and other onboard subsystems. Perfect vessel management with SISHIP EcoMAIN As a ship owner or ship operator, you rely on numerous software and hardware systems to answer ever more complex challenges in your daily business. With SISHIP EcoMAIN, you can use data from any number of systems on board in a uniform platform to make better decisions and save costs. Collect and prepare onboard data SISHIP EcoMAIN assists you with ship management decisions by providing operating data from all relevant onboard systems and equipment on a joint data platform that can also be accessed onshore. This allows you to compare important operating parameters across an entire fleet, and to identify and implement best practices that will significantly reduce your costs. Energy consumption, emissions, bunkering fluids, service schedules, documentation and information management – these are just some of the processes that are typically evaluated and analyzed for optimization. Your advantages with SISHIP EcoMAIN Increased cost efficiency Decision support for vessel management Optimization of all onboard processes Remote access – analysis of fleet data onshore Green fleet management Increased competitiveness and investment protection Control and monitoring system SISHIP IMAC The powerful and reliable SISHIP IMAC control system assumes all alarm, monitoring, and control functions. Its particular strengths are demonstrated in its ability to be scalable and to process a high number of measuring points. SISHIP IMAC communicates with other automation systems on board and enables the integration of complex systems such as the propulsion control system or the power management system. Integrated control system for ships The integrated monitoring, alarm, and control system SISHIP IMAC has been developed to meet the highest requirements in terms of operability, safety, and reliability. As a monitoring system, SISHIP IMAC allows clear visualization and seamless monitoring of a large number of fully automated processes running in parallel on ships of all types and sizes. Your advantages with SISHIP IMAC Increased efficiency for all onboard processes Simple, clear user interfaces Problem-free connection to existing IT infrastructure Security through assignment of rights for specific users or processes Remote access for data exchange diagnostics Flexible access via mobile terminals everywhere on board Cost-effectiveness and investment protection through proven, globally available SIMATIC S7 components Scalable monitoring system for vessels of any size Fast troubleshooting, thanks to integrated self-testing system Spare parts available worldwide Excellent onboard or land-based training With every technological advance, machinery and processes become more complex, requiring automation systems even for routine tasks. Therefore, periodic onshore and offshore training supports your crew in preserving the highest levels of security and efficiency by maintaining a comprehensive understanding of real-life situations and how they are presented in the automation systems​. Always close to the real thing The OBTS and LBTS training systems teach your crew how to fully exploit the potential of onboard automation solutions. OBTS and LBTS provide training in operational situations under realistic conditions on the actual automation software – either as onboard training in regular operation, by switching between operating and training modes (OBTS), or as land-based training at special training centers (LBTS). The hands-on trainings simulate physical processes and system behavior with mathematical models and the same automation software and HMI that the crew uses on board. Your advantages with OBTS and LBTS Optimal onboard training of your personnel (OBTS) Comprehensive preparation of personnel for operational deployment through land-based training (LBTS) Increased safety in the event of malfunctions, thanks to training with realistic simulations Protection of people, hardware, and the environment Reduced training costs, greater cost-effectiveness Minimization of operational error rate, protection of your investments Engineering, monitoring, and control of vital subsystems A submarine is a highly complex system comprising a variety of subsystems. Among other things, the trim, regulation, pressure, and ventilation systems must be controlled and monitored. To simplify operation and further support the operator, all systems are controlled and monitored using one central system. Multiple tasks – and everything under control The engineering, monitoring, and control system EMCS has been developed to ensure efficient and safe operation of all vital subsystems of submarines. EMCS combines all onboard subsystems of a submarine in a central, highly functional solution and creates the process transparency required for fast and profound decisions. It shares the operation, control, and monitoring of all subsystems with central and local user terminals and displays all process data in real time on the monitor, affording the crew an excellent overview. To guarantee maximum safety, plausibility checks on the crew’s inputs are carried out automatically before execution. The system factors into the verification the submarine’s prevailing operating mode, e.g. surface navigation, underwater navigation, or silent running. In addition, the continuous monitoring of hardware and software is conducted by a wide spectrum of integrated test functions. Your advantages with EMCS Comprehensive control and monitoring of all operating processes of your submarine Redundant data bus for maximum fail-safety and fault tolerance Highest process transparency as basis for profound decisions Reliable, standardized SIMATIC S7 automation components Fail-safe controlling and monitoring of all electrically powered onboard units Automation solutions on board navy surface vessels must safeguard the ship and crew in any operating situation, therefore unconditional system availability is just as important as excellent reliability and straightforward operation. IPMS ensures that operations run smoothly and that system failures do not turn into a catastrophe. Crew support for safe and reliable vessel operation Unconditional system availability is one of the primary requirements of an integrated automation system for naval surface vessels, especially when it comes to reliability of the onboard power supply. IPMS, Siemens Energy’s integrated automation system monitors and controls all the power modules, from the diesel engine and gas turbine to the transmission and pumps right through to the exhaust system, including ancillary modules such as fuel supply, ventilation, and fire alarm systems. Its integrated energy management capability ensures reliable power supply and energy distribution in every situation.​ Your advantages with IPMS IPMS controls and monitors all electrically powered onboard systems Modular, decentralized, and redundant system design Based on reliable SIMATIC S7 standard components capable of withstanding shock waves Integrated automation system is easy to operate, and supports the crew by automating routine functions Power supply integrity maintained through integrated energy management Integrated OBTS for training under realistic operational conditions Optional BDCS (battle damage control system) for detecting damage and taking necessary countermeasures Get in touch with us For information and questions, our support team is available 24/7 to assist you in English, Spanish, and German. First name Last name Email Phone number Company name Country/region Country/region Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Ascension Island Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius & Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See / Vatican City Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Côte d’Ivoire Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea, Democratic People's Rep Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia/South Sandwich South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St. Barts St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Martin St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Eswatini Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine Union of the Comoros United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay US Minor Outlying Islands USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Job role Job role Corporate Engineering Operations/maintenance Procurement/purchasing Administrative Business development/sales Consulting Finance Human resources IT Legal Marketing Media/communication Product management Production Project management Quality assurance Research/student Sustainability Facility management Investor relations/analyst Other Is your inquiry related to installed equipment? Yes No Industry (Select up to three) Industry (Select up to three) Automotive Banking, financial institutions, and insurances Buildings and construction Cement Ceramic and glass Chemicals Chemicals - biochemicals Chemicals - petrochemicals Chemicals - rubber and plastics Conventional power generation Data center Food and beverage Healthcare Industrial gases and air separation Maritime Mining, metals and minerals Mobility and transport infrastructure Oil and gas downstream Oil and gas midstream Oil and gas upstream Other Power distribution Power transmission Power-to-X and e-fuels Public sector Pulp and paper Renewable power generation Research and education Rubber and plastics Semiconductor Water and wastewater management Please let us know how we can help you Marketing consent I would like to receive marketing information from Siemens Energy based on my personal interests and give my consent as described in detail here. Send Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025