Podded propulsion Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Solutions and products for podded propulsion Efficient diesel-electric propulsion system with twin or mono propellers Electric pod systems are widely used on diesel-electric-powered vessels where very high levels of maneuverability, efficiency, and reliability are required. With SISHIP SiPOD-M (mono propeller) and SISHIP SiPOD-T (twin propeller), Siemens Energy offers a solution in the power range from 5 MW to 23 MW that allows maximum flexibility in vessel design and layout thanks to minimal space requirement on board. The crucial advantage of SISHIP SiPOD-M/-T is the substantially higher overall efficiency resulting from the combination of a compact, hydrodynamically optimized design and efficient, permanently excited synchronous motor. Contact us Podded propulsion solutions at a glance In the area of electric pod-based systems, Siemens Energy is the only supplier of podded propulsion systems equipped optionally with twin or mono propellers. This means that the propulsion system can be optimally adapted for your needs, all depending on the type of vessel and operating profile. Whether you opt for a twin or mono propeller version, you benefit from an innovative drive system that meets your requirements fully. SISHIP SiPOD-M With the SISHIP SiPOD-M, Siemens Energy offers a solution in the power range from 5 MW to 23 MW that allows maximum flexibility in vessel design and layout thanks to minimal space requirement on board. SISHIP SiPOD-T Twin-propeller systems keep space requirements under the stern to an absolute minimum. The SISHIP SiPOD-T allows for more flexible ship designs and maximizes the payload capacity. SISHIP SiPOD Service Container To be prepared for on-site conditions, which can sometimes be harsh, the fully equipped SISHIP SiPOD Service Container contains both standard and special-purpose tools, lifting devices, and air-conditioning and heating equipment. Optimized open water performance with mono propeller Sailing open waters is an extraordinary task for every vessel. Not only the ship itself, but also its propulsion systems have to operate on the highest level of performance. With the mono-propeller propulsion system SISHIP SiPOD-M, Siemens offers you a solution for vessels facing performance and efficiency challenges in these waters. Increased propeller surface and reduced weight with high hydrodynamic efficiency and low noise level The SISHIP SiPOD-M is the podded system of choice for vessels with demanding requirements in terms of open water performance and efficiency. The SISHIP SiPOD-M is equipped with an optimized strut which prevents vibrations and increases course stability. The hydrodynamic efficiency is even further increased thanks to the slim propeller hub and streamlined design. Cruise ships and other large passenger vessels, megayachts, as well as special vessels with specific ice class requirements particularly benefit from the advantages of the SISHIP SiPOD-M. Your advantages with SISHIP SiPOD-M Extremely quiet, low-vibration operation Outstanding maneuverability Excellent propulsion efficiency over a wide operating spectrum Highest energy efficiency Onboard space savings thanks to compact design Reliable propulsion system with redundancy Low maintenance costs due to passive cooling Standardized components available worldwide Competitiveness and safe investment Maximum thrust in minimal space due to twin-propeller layout If you are looking for a high vessel design flexibility and payload capacity at the same time, our SISHIP SiPOD-T twin-propeller propulsion system is the right choice for you. Cast off at any time with twin propeller propulsion Twin propeller systems keep space requirements under the stern to an absolute minimum. The SISHIP SiPOD-T allows for more flexible ship designs and maximizes the payload capacity. This is an advantage especially for ferries, special vessels, and naval support vessels. Having electrical properties resembling those of a conventional synchronized motor, the permanently excited motor can be integrated without limitations into conventional drive systems. In the process, the higher level of availability of the diesel-electric outboard drives also leads to a marked increase in operational reliability. No other type of drive system offers comparable flexibility for designing hulls and engine rooms than azimuthing diesel-electric propulsion systems. Your advantages with SISHIP SiPOD-T Extremely quiet, low-vibration operation Outstanding maneuverability Excellent propulsion efficiency over a wide operating spectrum Highest energy efficiency Onboard space savings thanks to compact design Reliable propulsion system with redundancy Low maintenance costs due to passive cooling Standardized components available worldwide Competitiveness and safe investment Expanded service capability for SISHIP SiPOD-M/-T The loss of even one day of vessel deployment due to a breakdown or failure can significantly impact your balance sheet. Like you, we are well aware of these challenges and address them with special offerings such as our fully equipped SISHIP SiPOD Service Container. Be prepared. For whatever happens. To be prepared for on-site conditions, which can sometimes be harsh, the fully equipped SISHIP SiPOD Service Container contains both standard and special-purpose tools, lifting devices, air-conditioning and heating equipment. Together with our new logistics concept, this allows us to substantially decrease maintenance times and also better access and reduce any risks while maintenance is being performed. A material container has recently complemented the Siemens Energy SISHIP SiPOD workshop container with all necessary tools for podded drive maintenance. This container additionally acts as an extension of the workshop space. It carries empty material boxes for dismounted large components, such as shaft bearings. This ensures safe transportation at the shipyard and beyond, and also protects sensitive parts regardless of the outside conditions. Overall, the SISHIP SiPOD material container boosts the shipyard’s independence. Do you have any questions? If you want to learn more about our offering for the marine sectors, don’t hesitate to contact us. Our marine experts will gladly answer all your questions and provide you with comprehensive information. Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025