Electric ferries Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications August 28, 2022 4 min read Electric propulsion lets Norway ferry passengers hear the sounds of the fjords Reference Drive industry decarbonization Whisper-quiet electric and hybrid propulsion systems from Siemens Energy can cut vessel fuel consumption, emissions, and costs up to 90 percent Watch the video Reducing maritime emissions to fight climate change When passengers on the Bastø Electric, the world’s largest all-electric car ferry, cross the Oslo Fjord, they can enjoy the mountain views, salt air, and sounds of waves and gulls in relative quiet.  The noise, fumes, and vibration of traditional diesel engines are gone. Climate change demands urgent action. And these technologies can revolutionize the maritime sector, which generates three percent of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions . In fact, 81 percent of the world's 91,000 ships are small or medium-size vessels with decades-old, fossil-fueled propulsion systems . Fortunately, with today's advanced propulsion technologies, their operators can convert them to electric or hybrid electric to save fuel, maintenance, and GHG emissions. Of course, in maritime propulsion applications, no one size fits all. That is why we offer tailor-made electric and hybrid systems for vessels of all kinds. Battery hybrid solutions, for example, can save up to 90 percent in fuel consumption, emissions, and costs. All with less noise — not only in Norway’s fjords but around the world. “ Maybe it's a small piece we can do, but what we see ist that people have passion for this and if everyone does a little - this can make a big impact on the world. Svein Erik Wasskaas Adm. Captain Bastø Electric Potential on reducing ferry emissions by electrification Decarbonizing marine transport A study on the electrification of the European Ferry Fleet A study conducted by Siemens Energy and the non-profit environmental organization Bellona shows that Europe can reduce CO₂ emissions in key countries by nearly 50 percent. This would save 800.000 tons of CO₂ each year, thanks to already available technologies. Read the study World's largest all-electric car ferry Bastø Fosen’s investments in electrification of their fleet – with large battery packs and lightning-fast charging systems – means  that the company will reduce its CO 2 emissions by 75 percent in 2022 – reducing their diesel consumption by six million liters per year. Read article References "Elektra" – the newest member of the electric ferry fleet In June 2017, the Elektra began regular operation between Nauvo and Parainen in the Turku archipelago. Europe's largest car ferry. At nearly 98 meters long and 16 meters wide, the Elektra can transport up to 90 cars per trip. Battery packs, which are charged via the land-based charging stations in the harbor for use by the ferry, serve as the primary source of energy, with Diesel engines used as emergency power units. The batteries will be charged in roughly five minutes while cars move off and onto the ferry. The two lithium-ion batteries each have a capacity of 530 kWh. A restaurant ship with eco-friendly hybrid propulsion The event boat MS Diamant is equipped with the innovative hybrid propulsion system Ecoprop which can be modulated in different configurations depending on the needs and navigation maneuvers. Fuel consumption cut up to 25%, savings maintenance costs 40-60%. Emission and noise levels drastically reduced. The world's first electrical car and passenger ferry ”Ampere” is the world's first electrical car and passenger ferry powered by batteries – operated by Norwegian ship owner Norled. Built in conjunction with shipbuilder Fjellstrand, Siemens Energy installed the complete electric propulsion system and put up charging stations with lithium-ion batteries which are charged from hydro power. Due to the change to battery, the ship owner Norled reduces the cost of fuel by up to 60%. Watch video Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition 3 min read Leipziger Stadtwerke, Germany: 100% hydrogen-ready CHP plant See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025