Siemens Energy to power the world’s lowest-emission LNG facility Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy to power the world’s lowest-emission LNG facility Press release July 12, 2022 Ontario, Canada Woodfibre LNG will be powered by clean, renewable hydroelectric power, reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by more than 80% Siemens Energy will provide motors, variable speed drives, and the main refrigerant compressors for the Woodfibre LNG project Once operational, Woodfibre LNG will provide over 100 jobs for the lifetime of the project Siemens Energy announced today that it was selected as the single solution supplier for the all-electric Woodfibre LNG project near Squamish, in British Columbia, Canada. The environmentally friendly LNG facility will be located at the site of a former pulp and paper operation. It will be sized for 2.1 million tonnes per annum and utilize clean, renewable hydroelectricity, reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by more than 80%. Above: Woodfibre LNG will be powered by clean, renewable hydroelectric power. Siemens Energy’s scope includes all equipment associated with the main refrigeration trains, including compressors, synchronous motors, variable speed drives, converter transformers, harmonic filters, and numerous powerhouses. The main refrigeration compressor trains are one of the components of the liquefaction process that produces the LNG that will eventually be stored in tanks and then transported to LNG tankers for shipping abroad. “LNG will play an essential role in a more sustainable future as we continue looking at ways to decarbonize the natural gas chain,” said Thorbjörn Fors, Executive Vice President, Industrial Applications at Siemens Energy.” This project is important, because it will help support the journey toward global decarbonization with exports to Asian economies currently driven by coal.” “Woodfibre LNG is working to incorporate a sustainable approach into as many aspects of our project’s engineering and design as possible,” said company president Christine Kennedy. “This includes using safe, efficient equipment for the LNG refrigeration process – like that which Siemens Energy will supply – to build what will become the world’s lowest-emission LNG export facility.” The project is expected to reach substantial completion in 2027 and begin commercial operation by September of that year. Links Integrated LNG Solutions Contact Siemens Energy Media Relations Team mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (195 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €28.5 billion in fiscal year 2021. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025