Oil and Gas Offshore Solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Offshore Solutions Changing the way we power offshore operations Powering offshore production with sustainable integrated solutions The oil and gas industry is beginning a transformation of its own, increasingly looking toward data-driven solutions to boost equipment performance, enhance efficiency and ultimately, to reduce costs. Siemens Energy is the totally integrated supplier that provides lifetime value by transforming the offshore industry with sustainable solutions towards a zero emission society. With offshore solutions, we have multiple capabilities such as, automation, electrification and digitalization which gives us the ability to integrate into a fleet at any stage in the lifecycle journey and effectively develop a complementary digital roadmap. Offshore Production FPSO Offshore & Marine Vessels Marine Drilling Drilling 4.0 Energy Storage Solutions BlueVault™ Energy Storage Solutions Energy Storage Life Cycle Management & Services Energy Services News and articles Solutions for decarbonizing offshore power generation - World Oil Reducing reliance on hydrocarbons for power is critical to achieving near- and long-term sustainability targets. Siemens Energy is collaborating with major offshore operators to implement decarbonization strategies for electrification, automation and digitalization. This article highlights successful implementation of technologies at several projects and discusses other promising concepts under development. By Atle Stroemme and Jarno Väkiparta, Siemens Energy Read the full article here World Oil Exclusive Interview with Bjoern Einar Brath Siemens Energy is paving the way for Offshore by enabling ESG and Sustainability goals for operations through energy storage, grids, and digitalization. Read the interview “ Norway is at the forefront of electrification in the offshore and maritime industries. Among other things, Siemens Energy has heavy expertise in power and energy management systems for ships and offshore, and is a world leader in the electrification of oil and gas platforms. More than ever, we can contribute with solutions that are both sustainable and profitable. Bjoern Einar Brath CEO, Siemens Energy Norway Blue is the new green. Siemens Energy TI BlueSolutions. TI BlueVision Digital solutions including multi-application environment using ML & AI, plant real time key KPI monitoring in dashboards on-premise or in cloud. Topsides 4.0 presentation TI BlueControl Totally Integrated BlueControl is a scalable Automation and Control Concept integrating Power, Drives and Process Control into one common and holistic system that also includes high resolution logging that enables additional digital offerings. TI BlueControl includes safe and cyber secure process control and automation prepared with event driven time stamped high data quality (SOGO ICSS). Enabling integrated solutions based on digital workflows and auto generated engineering. Whether your ambition is higher uptime or aiming for remote operation with low offshore staffing, or normally unmanned facilities - SOGO ICSS is prepared for what you need. SOGO ICSS TI BluePower AC Most compact and energy-efficient P&D solutions for any vessel type with high efficiency and reliability with integrated safety, IT security, and digital readiness. eSLOOP Video TI BluePower DC Innovative and cost-efficient solutions for the furture DC energy grid installations on vessels and rigs for offshore and marine market setting market trends. Color Hybrid Video Offshore Success Stories Make your offshore operations cyber secure and reliable Modern offshore operations are highly complex, generating tens of thousands of data points and transmitting them to onshore control centers across multiple types of networks. Offshore facilities also include technologies from many suppliers that interface with the main process control system, each with their own cybersecurity profile.  Learn how to navigate this complexity in our webcast with World Oil magazine! Register here Press releases September 9, 2021 Munich Power from shore solution will help Equinor reduce offshore platform emissions in the North Sea June 2, 2020 Munich Siemens to supply equipment for large-scale gas field development offshore Malaysia Read all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025