Power from shore solution will help Equinor reduce offshore platform emissions in the North Sea Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Power from shore solution will help Equinor reduce offshore platform emissions in the North Sea Press release September 9, 2021 Munich Siemens Energy will provide equipment for the partial electrification of Troll B and full electrification of the Troll C semi-submersibles Equinor estimates that reducing the power from gas turbines on Troll B and C will reduce annual carbon emissions by approximately 500,000 tonnes Siemens Energy received a contract from Aker Solutions to supply the complete packages for the electrical transmission, distribution, and power management system (PMS) for the Troll West electrification project in the North Sea. The Troll field is operated by Equinor and contains considerable oil and gas reserves. A key objective of the Troll West electrification project is to reduce NOx and CO2 emissions by replacing existing gas turbine-driven generators and compressors on the Troll B and C facilities with power from shore. The plan is to supply electrical power to Equinor’s Troll B and Troll C semisubmersibles with a 40-mile (65-kilometer), 150-megawatt subsea transmission cable from the Kollsnes natural gas processing plant on the island of Ona. Equinor has communicated that they estimate that reducing the power from the gas turbines on the Troll B and Troll C facilities will reduce annual carbon emissions by approximately 500,000 tonnes – an amount equivalent to about 1% of all emissions from Norway. In addition, NOx emissions from the field will also be reduced by an estimated 1,700 tonnes per year. Siemens Energy’s scope of supply for the project includes a range of electrical equipment, including transformers, reactors, and switchgears. Siemens AG is also part of the project consortium and will provide static frequency converter systems, large-scale drive trains, and special frequency converters, which will allow power to flow bi-directionally for normal and island operation. The PMS provided by Siemens Energy will help maintain a safe balance between power demand and consumption, thus ensuring overall grid stability. “Siemens Energy has been working in the Troll Field for more than two decades and is proud to support Norway’s ambitions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% through 2030 and by 80- 95% through 2050,” said Jennifer Hooper, Senior Vice President, Industrial Applications Solutions for Siemens Energy. “Our ability to provide a large portion of the equipment package for this project, coupled with our electrification experience on other offshore platforms operated by Equinor, including Martin Linge, Johan Sverdrup, and Goliat, were key factors in the contract award and will ultimately reduce project execution risks.” Installation and commissioning of the electrical equipment for the Troll West project are scheduled for 2022 – 2023. Siemens Energy will provide the complete packages for the electrical transmission, distribution, and power management system for the Troll West electrification project in the North Sea. Contact Janet Ofano Siemens Energy janet.ofano@siemens-energy.com +1 803-389-6753 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (159 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025