CAREPOLE Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications CAREPOLE: dry-type pole-mounted transformers The eco-friendly alternative for safer and more reliable distribution grids The pole-mounted dry-type CAREPOLE turns power distribution systems into safer, more environmentally friendly grids. Optimally protected by its cast-resin enclosure against normal and harsh environmental conditions, this maintenance-free transformer enables reliable operation while reducing total costs of ownership. CAREPOLE was selected for EUISSCA Sustainably Supply Chain Award Our latest, innovative dry-type transformer, CAREPOLE was selected for 2022 EUISSCA Sustainable Supply Chain Award! CAREPOLE is an eco-friendly alternative for safer and more reliable distribution grids. Our environmentally friendly CAREPOLE is setting new standards Are you in need of a reliable, digital (Sensformer), eco-friendly and durable cast-resin transformer? We have an answer for you: CAREPOLE. Reliability Sustainability Digitalization Easy handling CAREPOLE was developed by Siemens Energy for your overhead distribution line networks. CAREPOLE answers the challenges which transformers can possibly meet. Its windings are sealed with cast resin under vacuum, separated from the core, and the insulation is solid and resist the dielectric loads in the distribution network. The cast resin also protects your unit against severe weather conditions. High- and low-voltage bushings are cast in one piece with the windings. This technical design makes CAREPOLE especially reliable and unsusceptible to failures. Do you need an off-load tap changer? We can provide one near one of the top high-voltage bushings. It is set via a patented tap panel when the transformer is de-energized. Weatherproof design Your CAREPOLE withstands any weather conditions and ensures a reliable operation. The winding surfaces and core are in direct contact with the ambient air, resulting in efficient natural heat exchange. The frame surrounding the core creates a solid mechanical structure that protects the unit against corrosion and direct sunlight. The frame also serves as a lifting and fastening mechanism for the transformer. A special manufacturing process and advanced sealing compound ensure lownoise operation and perfect contact between frame and core. The core is wound from highquality electrical steel. The solid insulation of CAREPOLE is stable under all weather conditions and prevents moisture from penetrating the windings and core. Overload and short circuit capability CAREPOLE can withstand higher temperatures than liquid-filled transformers, due to the solid insulation. Accordingly, CAREPOLE units can be overloaded for longer periods of peak demand and can better withstand short-circuit effects. One key factor of the energy market is sustainability. CAREPOLE makes power distribution grids safer and more environmentally friendly because it operates without flammable mineral oil-based insulating fluids. The cast resin used as insulation and for the body of the transformer has excellent electrical and mechanical properties, and is environmentally friendly and self­extinguishing. CAREPOLE does not pose any risk to water sources or nature reserves caused by oil leaks, tank explosions, soil contamination or fires in the event of a fault. Besides, CAREPOLE does not lose any fuel in the case of an external fire. These features can reduce the costs of liability insurance. They also increase the reliability of the distribution grid. CAREPOLE can be ordered with ready-to-use sensors, allowing you to perform your own monitoring. The connectivity system securely transmits operational data to an advanced analytics and visualization platform, providing you real-time insights into asset health and fleet status. With these digital features, potential failures can be quickly identified and addressed. You may even be able to prevent issues by detecting operational irregularities at an early stage. This transparency provided by CAREPOLE increases the reliability of your distribution grid, enabling smarter and more efficient operation. Learn more about our digital portfolio Maintenance-free CAREPOLE is very efficient in operation, and power loss is reduced to an absolute minimum. CAREPOLE is nearly maintenance- free, so your maintenance costs are negligible. Service activities are limited to checking the installation, vegetation conditions and wildlife management. The unit has a service life of 30+ years. There is no need to replace or change it during this time. Easy to install You can directly replace liquidfilled overhead distribution transformers by CAREPOLE units of identical electrical power. They have identical fixing mechanisms to the pole and have been specifically developed for urban, rural or coastal outdoor installation. Installation and grid connection are particularly simple. Since CAREPOLE is a solid unit, it can be mounted at almost any angle on the pole and energized immediately after installation. Ratings You can order CAREPOLE in the single-phase power range from  25 kVA to 50 kVA. It offers a maximum voltage capacity of 25 kV and can be equipped with a tap changer (± 2 x 2.5%), one or two high voltage bushings, and other accessories typical for overhead distribution transformers (e.g. surge arresters, wildlife protector). Quality standards CAREPOLE from Siemens Energy offers you the highest safety standards and complies with all relevant laws and regulations. CAREPOLE meets the product requirements of the following standards: IEEE C57.12.01. “Standard for General Requirements for Dry Type Distribution and Power Transformers” IEEE C57.12.20. “Standard for Overhead Type Distribution Transformers 500 kVA and Smaller: High Voltage, 34,500 V and Below; Low voltage, 7,970 / 13,800 Y V and Below”. Efficiency in accordance with the U.S. Department of Energy (DoE). Other requirements as dictated by customers’ standards. Complying with the laws and regulations affecting distribution transformers Siemens Energy is closely monitoring the development of transformer regulations worldwide, e.g. the European Ecodesign Directive and US DoE rules. Siemens Energy adheres to the rules and regulations communicated, for example, in the US and Europe, and complies with all relevant requirements for every transformer product that we supply. As a trustworthy and responsible partner, Siemens Energy understands the importance of these regulations and will continue to monitor potential future requirements. We will continue to adapt and comply with all relevant regulatory changes. Accessories CAREPOLE is equipped with the following accessories: Lifting lugs Mounting bracket Low-voltage ground Transformer ground connector Surge arrester (on request) Special labelling (on request) Wildlife protector (on request) Make use of our services Downloads Support Services CAREPOLE brochure PDF (557 KB) Download CAREPOLE press release PDF (102 KB) Download CAREPOLE brochure Portuguese PDF (694 KB) Download CAREPOLE brochure Spanish PDF (673 KB) Download Contact the Customer Support Center +49 911 6505 6505 support@siemens-energy.com SIEMENS ENERGY Humboldtstr. 64 Nuremberg 90459 Germany Contact form For general information, please visit Transformer services Transformer laboratory Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025