High-voltage station arresters Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications High-voltage station arresters We offer an extensive portfolio of high-voltage station arresters in several versions for every conceivable application and even specific demands. Our surge arresters protect devices in equipment for applications up to 1,200 kV. Contact our experts Overview of our high-voltage station arresters Our portfolio consists of three types of surge arresters for specific applications: Main features: High mechanical stability for support applications and for use in regions with high seismic activity Extremely reliable pressure relief for use in areas requiring special protection Excellent pollution layer characteristics for use in coastal and desert regions or in areas with extreme air pollution All three surge arrester product families feature a superior sealing system that reliably prevents moisture ingress Decades of trouble-free service Manufactured using only environmentally compatible materials Our product families 3EL product family 3EL - Surge arresters with directly molded silicone rubber housing, Cage Design™ Siemens Energy 3EL silicone rubber surge arresters with cage design provide outstanding protection against overvoltages in networks up to 800 kV. Siemens Energy 3 EL cage design surge arresters are ideally suited for the reliable protection of: Transformers Circuit breakers Generators Motors Capacitors Traction vehicles Bushings Switchgear Transmission lines The cage, made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP) rods, provides a rigid, reinforced structure ensuring high mechanical strength. The silicone rubber housing is directly molded onto the metal oxide varistors (MOVs) and the surrounding cage made of FRP rods. This creates a reliable seal that prevents moisture ingress and partial discharges. The MO resistors are not surrounded by a rigid mechanical coating, which is why no critical increases in pressure can occur in the surge arrester in the extremely rare event of an overload. The arc can escape directly through the soft silicone housing without damaging the mechanical structure. No internal parts are ejected in the process. The innovative Siemens Energy cage design is very secure. The silicone rubber is highly hydrophobic and UV-resistant. This keeps any conductive moisture from forming on the surface, and dirt deposits are rendered harmless as a result of the hydrophobic transfer. Silicone is highly fire-retardant and self-extinguishing in the event of fire. These properties ensure the reliable, maintenance-free operation of 3EL surge arresters. They are also lightweight, allowing for easy transport and a variety of installation options. 3EL surge arresters are suitable for use as station or line surge arresters. 3EQ product family 3EQ - Surge arresters with silicone housing, composite hollow core design Siemens Energy 3EQ surge arresters with silicone housing and a composite hollow core design are ideally suited for the reliable protection of: Transformers Circuit breakers Generators Motors Capacitors Bushings Switchgear The surge arrester with the composite hollow core design uses silicone and fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP) as housing materials. The direct molding of the silicone onto the FRP hollow core ensures reliability, while an excellent special sealing of the flanges at both ends of the surge arrester effectively prevents partial discharges and moisture ingress. This guarantees decades of trouble-free operation. The combination of silicone rubber and the fiberglass-reinforced hollow core also allows for outstanding mechanical stability. The surge arrester with the composite hollow core design provides a very high degree of safety: In the event of an overload or the extremely rare case of an arrester short circuit, the arc escapes directly through directional pressure relief devices. The surge arrester can be oriented to minimize the risk of damage to facilities and injuries to people nearby. Internal parts are not ejected, and the housing does not break. 3EQ surge arresters can be used as station or support insulators. They are ideally suited for areas with the heaviest seismic activity, extremely strong winds and in support functions. 3EP product family 3EP – Surge arresters with porcelain housing Siemens Energy 3EP porcelain surge arresters offer outstanding protection against overvoltages in networks of up to 800 kV. 3EP porcelain surge arresters are ideally suited for the reliable protection of: Transformers Circuit breakers Generators Motors Capacitors Bushings Switchgear The cage, made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP) rods, provides a rigid, reinforced structure ensuring high mechanical strength. The excellent sealing system prevents moisture ingress and partial discharges. In the extremely rare event of an overload, the arc can escape directly through the directional pressure relief devices. Strong, high-quality porcelain prevents the ejection of internal parts. The Siemens Energy porcelain design offers extremely safe overload performance. 3EP porcelain surge arresters are ideal for areas with heavy seismic activity and extremely strong winds. Downloadable resources for you High-voltage surge arresters brochure - Original file PDF (3 MB) Get in contact with our experts Do you have any questions about our surge arresters? Contact us. We are pleased to offer you individual advice. Contact Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025