Sensors Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Sensors Siemens Energy high-quality subsea pressure and temperature sensors Siemens Energy subsea pressure and temperature sensors have an unrivaled performance and excellent long-term stability. For over 25 years the performance and stability of our sensors has been proven on subsea installations worldwide. In addition to our renowned subsea pressure, temperature and differential pressure sensors, we also offer a wide assortment of proven and tested instruments for a varied range of subsea measurement applications. Contact us for more information WEPS sensors WEPS-100 series The WEPS-100 subsea sensor range is designed to be modular, allowing variants such as function and output protocol to be selected without affecting dimensional envelope size. Modular components also enable efficient construction and increased quality whilst promoting standardisation. The WEPS-100 range is available for digital or analogue applications up to 15K PSI and 180°C. With over 14,000 WEPS style sensors produced to date, this product has an unrivalled pedigree in reliably delivering critical information from subsea wells to maximize well flow management performance. WEPS-300 series The WEPS-300 subsea pressure and temperature sensor is our next generation, competitive, future proofed sensor. It is production optimized, focusing on standardization, with reduced part numbers and less variants. As with all sensors in the WEPS range it has been engineered and manufactured to the highest quality, and has advanced features allowing compliance with technical specifications. It has the qualities of accuracy, stability, reliability, and performance that Siemens Energy sensors are valued for. Like the WEPS-100, with the WEPS-300 we offer an extended housing option for insulated applications and a dual hose exit. Siemens Energy WEPS 100 series Installation and operation manuals sensors English WEPS 100 Flyer PDF (629 KB) Download English Installation, Operation and Maintenance of Subsea Sensors RevAL PDF (1 MB) Download Packing, Preserving Handling and Shipping of Jumpers/Harness with or without Sensors Rev04 PDF (563 KB) Download Packing, Preserving, Handling and Shipping of Sensors Rev N PDF (935 KB) Download Differential pressure (dp) sensors Siemens Energy subsea dP-sensors have been supplied to the subsea industry since 1998. The excellent performance of the sensors has made the Siemens Energy subsea brand of dP-sensors to be the preferred choice for dP-measurements within the subsea industry. With the introduction of the remote seal system in 2005, another step was made into making the dP-sensor the first choice for all subsea dP-applications. SDP-6 The remote seal system is designed to provide you with the most robust unit and to make measurements resistant against process pollution and hydrate formation. The SDP-6 meets market demand by providing high-quality solutions for subsea flow and tank level monitoring for systems up to 15,000 psi line pressure.  For DP applications with 20K PSI working pressure, the SDP-8 is available. SDP-9 Introducing the SDP-9, a cutting-edge subsea sensing innovation that embodies Siemens Energy's 30-year legacy of excellence as a market leader. This advanced DP sensor comes equipped with an incorporated line pressure function, revolutionizing subsea monitoring. The SDP-9 offers an all-in-one solution, ensuring unmatched convenience and efficiency. Leveraging technology from the highly acclaimed SDP-6 and WEPS-300 ranges of subsea sensor products, the SDP-9 takes reliability and performance to new heights. With a design life of 25-30 years, this sensor guarantees exceptional precision, while its robust build combats process debris and hydrate formation, providing accurate measurements even in harsh subsea environments. Seamlessly integrate the SDP-9 into your systems and elevate your subsea operations with unrivalled precision and complete assurance. SDP sensors Installation and operation manuals English SDP-9 Sensors DOCX (126 KB) Download SDP-6 dP Sensors PDF (986 KB) Download English IOM SDP6-SDP8 Rev K PDF (287 KB) Download IOM SDP-9 PDF (173 KB) Download Flow measurement for subsea applications Siemens Energy’s dP-sensor on a V-Cone or a Venturi provides a compact dual redundancy single phase flow meter for both water and gas measurement. Our facilities include dedicated pressure test/FAT areas, a water gas testing pit (PSL3G) and hyperbaric chamber. We can offer standardised high accuracy meter solutions to meet the demands of even the most stringent project. Coming up is the Siemens Energy flow computer that can be integrated in the flow meter assembly. The flow calculations are based on dP-pressure over a V-Cone or Venturi, Line Pressure and Process Temperature and will be provided in flow rate units. Our facilities include dedicated pressure test/FAT areas, a water gas testing pit (PSL3G) and hyperbaric chamber. We can offer a solution designed reliable flow meter with high accuracy to meet the demands of even the most stringent project. Coming up is the Siemens Matre flow computer that can be integrated in the flow meter assembly. The flow calculations are based on dP-pressure over a V-Cone or Venturi, Line Pressure and Process Temperature and will be provided in flow rate units. Single-phase flowmeter By combining the Siemens Energy Subsea Differential Pressure Transmitter with V-cone or Venturi technologies, we have been able to provide an accurate and reliable single-phase flow measurement solutions to many high-profile subsea projects. Whether the project requires single or dual redundancy, direct mounted SDP-5 DP cell or remote sealed SDP-6, Siemens Energy can offer a solution designed to meet the demands of even the most stringent project. Contact us How can we help you? Send us an email Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025