Prefabricated power solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Prefabricated power solutions – Flexible, robust, portable, plug and play Prefabricated substations with up to 420 kV Siemens Energy provides a large range of prefabricated substations that are equally suited for either temporary or permanent use in challenging grid expansion- and maintenance programs or as emergency response. Besides standard configuration, Siemens Energy can also include most environmentally friendly solution with Ester filled transformers and clean air insulated switchgear (Blue GIS) as well as digital substation options. To complete the one-stop package we also offer lifetime service. Contact the customer service Technology for extra speed and flexibility Mobile substations E-houses Skid-mounted solutions Independent grid substations Do you want to refurbish your distribution infrastructure while keeping it in service? Whether as resiliency units for fast emergency response or for substation upgrades and refurbishments, trailer-mounted substations are the best choice for temporary use and whenever fast deployment is essential. They provide maximum flexibility and comprise one or several compact modules, e.g. power transformer, high- or medium-voltage switchgear, cables, control and protection equipment, communication, monitoring and auxiliary power systems. The trailer’s external dimensions comply with local road transportation requirements. Its base-frame protects the electrical equipment from mechanical stress during transport. If you require more information please contact us by using the contact button. Do you want to simplify and speed up your project? E-houses are the preferred solution for permanent deployment, particularly in challenging environments where risks need to be minimized. The portable plug-and-play E-houses are complete substations that come pre-wired and factory tested, this way drastically reducing necessary on-site work. The single-lift steel-frame construction with a protective shelter comprises switchgear as well as secondary and auxiliary systems in one or more modules for on-site assembly. All standard switchgear configurations, such as single or double busbar, ring as well as one and a half breaker are available. Depending on voltage level and transportation restrictions, the E-house can be fitted with a built-in overhead crane or removable roof to simplify maintenance work. If you require more information please contact us by using the contact button. Are you looking for an answer how to cope with challenging on-site conditions? Skid-mounted solutions can be used for temporary or permanent use. Designs for indoor- and outdoor applications are available. They have similar benefits like an E-house, but no protective shelter. Depending on customer requirements Siemens Energy can deliver a fully pre-commissioned substation solution equipped with power transformers as well as high- and medium voltage, making it the most cost-effective solution to simplify your on-site schedule. Skid-mounted solutions can be delivered with GIS, AIS and Dead Tank arrangements. Efficient project schedules, cost effectiveness, flexibility and improved on-site management are the main reasons to apply skid mounted solutions. If you require more information please contact us by using the contact button. Is your existing transmission network prepared for unforeseen events? Fast deployable, independent grid substations up to 420 kV for Transmission System Operators are increasing the availability of energy transmission systems. The substation is designed for road transportation and dimensions of each unit meet local road transportation requirements. Completely equipped it contains high voltage GIS, transformer unit, control, protection, cabling and power supply. The independent grid substations up to 420 kV can be installed plug and play and commissioned in days at the location of demand. If you require more information please contact us by using the contact button. Prefabricated power solutions brochure PDF (6 MB) Download Agility in grid development and resilience in operation High-voltage E-houses, skids, and mobile substations up to 420 kV from Siemens Energy support already today numerous of our utility and industry customers to make their extension and maintenance plans more flexible, to speed up their project schedules and to secure grid resilience. Much more than you’d expect Siemens Energy's portable power solutions consist of self-contained “plug and play” switching stations built as fully mobile substation on a trailer or semi-permanent on a skid or inside a shelter as an “E-house”. The modules contain all components for a complete substation, from the power transformer and AIS or GIS switchgear to medium- and high-voltage cables, protection, monitoring and control systems, and auxiliary AC and DC power supplies. How portable power solutions pay off Siemens Energy portable power solutions offer various benefits that help save considerable amounts of time and capital expenditures in different applications. Time savings of up to 30% Siemens Energy prefabricated power solutions transfer a large amount of site work to the factory environment. This way, the prefabricated substations can bring time savings of up to 30% in substation construction. They also reduce the risk exposure significantly thanks to: Full assembly and test prior to shipment Integrated modular design, which translates into less interface risk Simplified and faster civil works Reduced duration of site works and less need of skilled labor. Typical fields of applications Grid and infrastructure operation Resilience and agility in grid management Siemens Energy portable power solutions can increase the resiliency of a power grid and help ensure uninterrupted service. They provide a quick and efficient solution for the emergency restoration of power in the case of equipment failure. They can also serve as a temporary bypass substation to enable major maintenance or refurbishment programs to be carried out in an optimized manner. Moreover, they are an ideal backup to enable quick grid reinforcement when it comes to handling seasonal peak loads or fast grid extensions. Industry On-site works will be led to a minimum. Siemens Energy prefabricated power solutions are available for permanent installation. Erection and pretesting in a clean area assure high quality and fast delivery. We are your partner to keep your process running. Power generation Short project time, efficient and proven design. Preinstalled and pretested prefabricated power solution from Siemens Energy is the answer to control project risks. Siemens Energy portable power solutions are available for permanent installation. We have solutions to energize your renewable power plant efficiently in time. Grid connection wherever and whenever required Siemens Energy prefabricated power solutions are the versatile temporary or permanent answer for challenging grid expansion and back-up cases Emergency backup grid connection The design optimized for transport combined with very short set-up times of a prefabricated power solution enables grid operators to quickly restore power after a substation failure. It also helps avoid disruptions during grid maintenance and upgrade works. New fast-track projects Siemens Energy prefabricated power solutions enable faster and more reliable grid connection for power-critical infrastructures such as electrical generation or process industries, and they ensure little exposure to site work contingencies. Challenging conditions Remote or hostile environments usually lead to high labor costs. That’s why on-site works need to be minimized wherever possible. As a true “plug and play” solution, the portable power solution requires very little civil work and comes entirely pre-assembled and factory tested. This reduces site works to an absolute minimum. Our services for you You can find more details in our prefabricated power solutions brochure. Brochures Prefabricated power solutions PDF (6 MB) Download Quick and reliable grid connection in practice Siemens Energy's portable power solutions have proven their potential as a powerful problem solver in many projects around the globe. Here’s an overview of some particularly interesting cases. Full bypass of a 145 kV substation during extensive grid refurbishment Major urban substation refurbishement scheme for several years to come. Customized, mobile 5-bay E-house solution deployed to bypass an entire substation. E-house can be installed without crane. Fast-track 400 kV grid connection for 2x280-MW combined cycle power plant Portable power solution replaced originally planned substation with air-insulated switchgear. Gas-insulated switchgear was safely mounted and transported on a trailer. Grid connection performed three months earlier than originally planned. Plug and play extension of a 63 kV indoor substation in a residential area Heavy civil works for substation extension in a residential area avoided. Prefabricated single-lift “plug and play” substation with switchgear, control panels, and building technology. Duration of on-site works reduced by more than 50%, project execution about 2.5 months faster. Versatile grid backup with 500 MVA 380 kV/132-115-110 kV mobile substation Innovative solution including one of the world’s biggest transformers ever supplied for a mobile system. Utility can autonomously restore grid service in less than a week if high-voltage equipment fails in a substation. Considerable improvement of power infrastructure resilience Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025