Grid resilience solutions for a reliable and sustainable Future Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Grid resilience Leading the energy transition - we ensure efficient power grid resilience through reliability, availability and stability - anywhere, anytime. To power the energy transition, we need a robust and reliable grid. Our focus is on enhancing and automating the grid, ensuring it's equipped to handle the demands of tomorrow. Our high-voltage solutions, products  and services enable efficient, loss-minimal transportation of renewable energy to global cities and hubs. Leveraging cutting-edge digital technologies, we optimize grid performance, even when dealing with large volumes of fluctuating energy and ultra-short-term renewable energy storage. Arrange a consultation About grid resilience The power sector is undergoing a transformative period marked by rapid changes and innovations. Key drivers of this transformation include the push for decarbonization, the rise of electrification, and the liberalization of energy markets. As renewable energy sources like solar and wind become more prevalent, they introduce variability and reduce the inertia of traditional power systems, which rely on rotating masses. This shift presents unique challenges in maintaining grid stability, particularly in terms of voltage, frequency, and load management. Additionally, the growing demand for electricity and the need for enhanced interconnections between power systems add to the complexity. Ensuring grid resiliency is crucial for meeting these challenges, providing a stable and reliable power supply, and facilitating the transition to a sustainable energy future. Our contributions We enhance a resilient grid through innovative solutions, advanced technologies, and smart grid integration, ensuring a reliable and sustainable energy future. Battery energy storage systems Consists of one or more batteries and can be used to balance the electric grid, provide backup power and improve grid stability.​ Discover BESS Digital Grid Solutions provide advanced monitoring, automation, and protection systems to enhance the efficiency and reliability of power networks. Discover digital grid FACTS Flexible AC transmission systems are the perfect solution for increasing the reliability of AC grids, ensuring stability, and boosting transmission efficiency. Discover FACTS HVDC PLUS® High-voltage direct current technology efficiently transmits power over long distances, integrates renewables, and stabilizes the grid. Discover HVDC Services for resilience portfolio We service your power transmission products, systems and solutions. Discover services for power transmission Transformers (shunt reactors) Shunt reactors and series reactors are used widely in AC networks to limit overvoltage or shortcut current in power transmission. Discover shunt reactors and series reactors Transformers (phase shifters) Providing active power flow control - phase shifters not only improve the stability and flexibility of grids but also maximize the utility of existing hardware. Discover phase-shifting transformers Power transformers They serve as the robust link facilitating the seamless transition from conventional energy sources to sustainable alternatives. Discover power transformers portfolio Explore our latest innovations for grid resilience We stabilize grids - everywhere and at all times Pretact® launch Get in touch with us for more information about grid resilience. Contact us Services Discover our services for a reliable and stable grid Services for grid technologies Services for high-voltage switchgears and breakers Services for transformers Services for high-voltage direct current (HVDC) Services for flexible AC transmission systems (FACTS) Cyber Security for HVDC / FACTS Services for offshore grid connections SIEAERO FAQs What is grid resilience? An increasing system complexity demands for investments into grid infrastructure that stabilize the grid and ensure uninterrupted energy supply , even under adverse conditions . Grid resilience ensures stability, reliability and availability of the grid, reduces losses and improves system efficiency . What is grid stability? Grid stability is what keeps the challenges to power systems , such as the spikes or lulls in demand, power line, or even generator failure, in check . Since power is produced on demand, it's critical to ensure that the power system frequency and voltage remain within normal ranges . Maintaining this balance is necessary to keep the power grid stable and efficient . What is the difference between grid resilience and grid reliability? Grid resilience is the ability of the power grid to prepare for, respond to, and recover from disruptive events, such as natural disasters, or equipment failures . Focus is the grid’s adaptability and robustness in the face of unexpected challenges , ensuring that it can bounce back quickly and maintain service continuity. Grid reliability refers to the ability of the power system to consistently deliver electricity to consumers without interruption . It encompasses the performance of the grid in terms of its capacity to meet demand and the frequency and duration of outages . With our grid resilience offerings, we ensure efficient power grid operations through reliability, availability and stability – anywhere, anytime. How to increase grid resilience? At Siemens Energy Grid Technologies , we offer a broad portfolio of innovative transmission products, systems, solutions, and services to support customers on their energy transition journeys towards more resilient grids . With our offerings, we enhance grid stability by using technologies to manage renewable energy intermittency , ensuring a s teady power supply , focus on modernizing aging infrastructure to improve grid reliability and efficiency , and ensure consistent power availability through our services. Additionally, we optimize electricity flow to reduce losses , and implement strategies for sustainability and longevity, minimizing environmental impact while maximizing reliability . Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025