Hydrogen co-firing at Constellation Energy's Hillabee plant Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read Hydrogen co-firing at Constellation Energy's Hillabee plant: Charting the future of clean energy Energy transition action Service Constellation Energy, the leading producer of clean energy in the US, achieved a record for its turbine class in hydrogen co-firing at their Hillabee power plant in Alabama. A record day for hydrogen co-firing The challenge: Advancing towards a carbon-free future with hydrogen co-firing Constellation Energy , the United States’ foremost producer of clean energy, provides customers and partners with access to sustainable, carbon-free fuel and electricity. With a vision to achieve 100% carbon-free electricity by 2040 and 100% reduction of operations-driven emissions by 2040, Constellation is at the forefront of the clean hydrogen revolution. Their innovative approach includes producing clean hydrogen near their Nine Mile Nuclear power plant. To achieve this, Constellation sought to test hydrogen co-firing at one of their gas power plants. The challenge was to prove that hydrogen can be blended safely and without major modifications. The solution: Implementing hydrogen-cofiring at the Hillabee plant The solution to this challenge was the pioneering hydrogen co-firing project at the Hillabee plant, which features Siemens Energy SGT6-6000G technology. This initiative, with Constellation at the helm, was supported by Siemens Energy, EPRI and Certarus. Our role included providing engineering support and equipment that facilitated the successful blending of hydrogen. EPRI ensured compliance with stricter standards on hydrogen fuel usage. This collaboration underscores the importance of partnership in achieving technological advancements in the energy sector. Learn more about how you can convert your exisiting equipment to hydrogen operation with our Hydrogen Co-firing solutions. Go to product page The benefit: Setting an industry record in hydrogen co-firing Constellation achieved an industry record in their turbine class by co-firing a 38.8% blend of hydrogen with natural gas. This achievement not only signifies a potential reduction of 270,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions, equivalent to taking about 60,000 cars off the road, but also marks a significant advancement in the use of hydrogen in gas turbines . The successful test demonstrated the highest megawatt output for a commercial combined cycle gas plant with hydrogen blending, showcasing the potential for substantial carbon footprint reduction through green hydrogen energy. Thermal energy will continue to play a key role in the energy mix until new technologies are proven reliable. Constellation's ability to convert their assets for clean energy production is a vital contribution to grid stability and sustainability. The longstanding partnership between Constellation and Siemens Energy has been instrumental in realizing these goals, showing how collaboration can drive progress towards a carbon-free energy future. Contact us Please feel free to contact us if you have any questions or would like to learn more about this reference or hydrogen co-firing solutions. Contact us Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025