Marine products and solutions Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Solutions & Products In order to help owners and operators successfully address ever growing market and economic challenges, they must also be efficient and effective. That’s the underlying premise of our marine solutions approach: continuously finding and developing innovations aimed at keeping your business operating and competing successfully and sustainably. We offer solutions for power, drive and automation technology – for almost every kind of vessel. Automation and control SISHIP EcoMAIN SISHIP EcoMAIN assists you with ship management decisions by providing operating data from all relevant onboard systems and equipment on a joint data platform. Read more IMAC As a monitoring system, IMAC provides clear visualization and seamless monitoring of a large number of fully automated processes running in parallel on ships of all types and sizes. Read more OBTS and LBTS OBTS and LBTS provide training in operational situations under realistic conditions on the actual automation software – either as onboard training (OBTS), or as land-based training (LBTS). Read more EMCS Our engineering, monitoring, and control system EMCS has been developed to ensure efficient and safe operation of all vital subsystems of submarines. Read more IPMS IPMS, Siemens Energy’s integrated automation system for naval surface vessels, features redundant monitoring and control of the propulsion system and other onboard subsystems. Read more Electric propulsion / drives Future-proof solutions for the safe, efficient and reliable operation of commercial as well as naval vessels. Drive LV Our two diesel-electric marine propulsion systems reduce fuel requirements, increase maneuverability, minimize environmental risks, and make your ship quieter and more comfortable. Read more Drive MV Designed without compromising power output and fail-safe performance, our DRIVE MV integrated drive system offers an almost unlimited power range. Read more Permasyn In the Permasyn motor for submarines, excitation is achieved with permanent magnets. This results in outstanding features in terms of uncompromising reliability and operational readiness. Read more SGM Siemens Energy developed the SGM shaft generator with motor function in response to rising fuel costs and ever-stricter environmental regulations. Read more SISHIP BlueDrive Family With SISHIP BlueDrive Eco, the SISHIP BlueDrive Family is now offering scalable solutions for all drive requirements, covering diverse performance graduations for small to medium-sized drives, from 5 KW in auxiliary mode up to 5.5 MW in main drives. Read more DC Prop With their outstanding reliability, minimized noise signature and stray field development, Siemens Energy DC-Prop DC drives are perfectly suitable for operation in submarines. Read more Podded propulsion SISHIP SiPOD-M With the SISHIP SiPOD-M, Siemens Energy offers a solution in the power range from 5-25 MW which allows maximum flexibility in vessel design and layout thanks to minimal space requirement on board. Read more SISHIP SiPOD-T Twin propeller systems keep space requirements under the stern to an absolute minimum. The SISHIP SiPOD-T allows for more flexible ship designs and maximizes the payload capacity. Read more SISHIP SiPOD Service Container To be prepared for on-site conditions, which can sometimes be harsh, the fully equipped SISHIP SiPOD Service Container contains both standard and special-purpose tools, lifting devices, as well as air conditioning and heating equipment. Read more Power Future-proof solutions for the safe, efficient and reliable operation of commercial as well as naval vessels. Power LV Power LV is an integrated, modular, and scalable system for providing a reliable and economical onboard power supply in low-voltage technology. Read more Power MV Power MV is our solution for the onboard medium-voltage supply. It comprises all central components in medium-voltage technology. Read more WHRS SISHIP Boost with WHRS is a waste heat recovery system for vessels that helps reduce your energy costs by up to 12 percent. Read more SISHIP BlueDrive Family With SISHIP BlueDrive Eco, the SISHIP BlueDrive Family is now offering scalable solutions for all drive requirements, covering diverse performance graduations for small to medium-sized drives, from 5 KW in auxiliary mode up to 5.5 MW in main drives. Read more PEM Fuel Cells The PEM fuel cell is ideally suited for use as an air-independent power supply for submarines. It enables dive times to be significantly extended which minimizes the risk of beeing detected. Read more DC Switch Gear The operational readiness of a modern submarine is critically dependent on the reliability and efficiency of its power supply, and that includes its DC switchgear system. Read more Grid Solutions SISHIP BlueDrive Family With SISHIP BlueDrive Eco, the SISHIP BlueDrive Family is now offering scalable solutions for all drive requirements, covering diverse performance graduations for small to medium-sized drives, from 5 KW in auxiliary mode up to 5.5 MW in main drives. Read more Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025