 
 
siemens -energy.com  © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page 1 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   
 
 
 
 
 
 Wednesday, June 1, 2022  
 
Dear valued supplier,   
we are currently shaping our future as an independent Siemens Energy after the spin -off from Siemens AG.  
It’s going to be an exciting journey, but we have to go through a series of changes. We have to leave old habits 
behind to become an independent leade r in the energy business.  
To achieve this goal, we need to embrace the opportunities of harmonization and continue to drive forward the 
transformation of the value chain. And of course, you, our suppliers are an extraordinarily important part  in all 
of this.   
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction of our new Siemens Energy Procurement Tool  
 
 
siemens -energy.com  © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page 2 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What do you have to do and when?   
   
As part of the ARIBA implementation, also the registration of our suppliers in ARIBA will start soon. Currently, 
there is no need to do anything from your side.   
   
Starting in June, Siemens Energy will invite the first wave of suppliers to register thems elves on the SAP 
Business Network and in our Siemens Energy ARIBA system by filling out our Siemens Energy specific 
registration and qualification questionnaires. We will proceed step by step with this process and will inform you 
in time prior to your own registration and qualification.  
   
Starting in July 2022 our source -to-contract processes, e.g. events like price requests, will reach you via an E -
Mail from ARIBA. Please be aware that the sender of the E -Mail might have an automatically generated E -Mail 
address like s4system -prodeu+Siemens -Energy.Doc996077591@eusmtp.ariba.com  .   
  
In the E -Mail you can find further instructions regarding the concrete steps you need to follow. After logging in 
/ registering yourself on the SAP Business Network, you can access events without filling in the Siemens 
Energy specific registration and qualification questionnaires, however, this intermediate step (questionnaires) 
must take place later in order to receive an award.  
  
Don’t worry though, during the whole process you will always be able to participate in all of our source -to-
contract activities.  
 
 
 
What is additionally important for you?  
  
If you have any further questions, you will find more information and benefits of ARIBA, as well as manuals for 
suppliers and a support hotline on our Supplier Website .  
  
We are looking forward to sharing the journey with you and to unlock the values of digitalization to the benefit 
of both our companies.  
 
 
 
With best regards,   
 
 
 
Barbara Buttinger  
  
Senior Vice President of Strategic Procurement , Siemens Energy  
