Renewables Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Renewable energy We support our customers in delivering the energy transition with our sustainable solutions for a greener and cleaner world, using renewable energy sources including sun, wind, water and biomass Renewable energy: Harness the power of the future Utilize the potential of the sun, wind, water and more Renewable sources including solar, wind, hydropower and biofuels are vital in the transition towards less carbon-intensive energy systems. And while the generation of electricity from the sun and wind has grown rapidly in recent years, further expansion is urgently needed to keep the 1.5°C climate target within reach. According to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), an average of 1,000GW of renewable energy capacity needs to be added every year until 2030. Much more needs to be done across the value chain: making the grid more robust, increasing storage and using more green hydrogen and derivatives in high-emission industries such as transportation. We work every day to supply our partners with the technologies they need to effect these changes. Renewable energy is key to the energy transition The new energy landscape, fueled by renewable sources, is revolutionizing patterns of power generation, distribution, and consumption. This energy transition plays a crucial role in achieving a sustainable and environmentally responsible future for our planet. Renewable energy from natural resources With our solutions and components producing renewable energy from sun, wind, water, biomass and more, we offer a holistic portfolio for sustainable energy supply. Learn more about our solar energy offering Learn more about our biomass offering Learn more about our offerings for wind power Learn more about our hybrid power offering Learn more about our hydro power offering Smoothing the way for renewable energy While some challenges of renewable energy such as land use or regulatory landscapes are out of our control, we can help to solve the technical issues such as intermittency (through storage or grid access) and transportation (through our power transmission and distribution solutions). Learn more about our offshore grid access connections Learn more about power transportation and grid decarbonization Learn more about our storage solutions Still have questions about renewable energy? Hydrogen can help to decarbonize power generation. Are Siemens Energy gas turbines capable of being (co-)fired by H2? Our natural gas-fired turbines are future-proof and thus a sustainable investment. They can run on hydrogen. By 2030, we want to increase the fuel-mix percentage of hydrogen to 100.  Visit this page to find out more about our gas turbine portfolio . Renewable power is key to producing green hydrogen. Does Siemens Energy also offer electrolyzer technology? Green e-Hydrogen gained via electrolysis from renewable energy sources is the key to a CO2-free future. Our electrolyzer portfolio provide solutions for large-scale sustainable hydrogen production. Learn more about our green hydrogen solutions here . Does Siemens Energy also offer Power-to-X solutions for hydrogen derivatives such as  e-methanol, e-ammonia, or e-fuels to replace fossil fuels? We are working closely with partners from government, academia, and industry to create a hydrogen economy that is sustainable and profitable in the long term. With our extensive knowledge of industrial, mobility, and energy sectors, we’re able to provide dependable solutions in every aspect. Discover our approach to creating the hydrogen economy of the future . Contact us for more information about renewable energy Siemens Energy Customer Support +49 911 6505 6505 (Charges depending on provider) +49 180 524 25 71 (Charges depending on provider, from the German fixed network € 0.14/min. and from the German mobile phone networks max. € 0.42/min.) Contact us Latest news May 18, 2023 8 min read Renewable energy isn’t enough June 30, 2021 6 min read Modeling net zero 3 min read High Performance Solar 2, Portugal: Increased efficiency and reduced costs with control system and electrical infrastructure See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025