 siemens -energy.com  
  
 
 
 
 
Unrestricted    © 202 2 Siemens Energy                Page  1 of 4  
Rules of Procedure for the handling of complaints - Siemens Energy Grievance 
Mechanism  
 
1. Who is entitled to use the Siemens Energy Reporting Channels ? 
Every Siemens Energy employee , as well as any third party  (i.e., suppliers, customers,  workers , NGOs or 
other (natural) person s), is entitled to submit allegations of violations of the law and / or Siemens Energy  
internal regulations committed by employees of Siemens Energy or in connection with its business via 
the Siemens Energy  Reporting Channels.  
2. What can be reported via the Siemens Energy Reporting Channels?  
Any good -faith belief of an actual or potential violation of law and / or Siemens Energy internal regulation 
that is committed by a Siemens Energy employee or occur s in connection with Siemens Energy's business 
(misconduct)  may be reported .1  
It is important that any type of misconduct can be  reported. This means that not only reports of 
Compliance violations  may be submitted, but also reports that relate to other governance functions 
within the company, such as Human Resources, Environmental, Health & Safety , Security, Cybersecurity , 
or Procurement.  
For example , reports that allege violations of human rights2 or expose potential environmental risks3 
and relate to the business of Siemens Energy or its suppliers may also be submitted via the Siemens 
Energy Reporting Channels .   
3. How to report via the Siemens Energy Reporting Channels?  
a) Reporting channels  
 
In particular, the following reporting channels are available to report  any such allegation and to provide 
the relevant information:  
 
• "Speak Up": "Speak Up" is a web -based tool through which reports  can be given 24 hours a day, 7 days a 
week, either in writing or by telephone. It is available  in numerous different languages .  
https://www.bkms -system.net/bkwebanon/report/clientInfo?cin=LP5taA&c= -1&language=eng  
 
• Siemens Energy Ombudsperson: The Siemens Energy Ombudsperson is a neutral party to whom report-
ers can turn. Dr. Sybille von Coelln ( HEUKING ∙ VON COELLN Attorneys at Law  / Rechtsanwälte ) acts as 
an external party for Siemens Energy. Reports  may be submitted to her in writing, by telephone or, if 
necessary, in person.  
Contact Details:  
Dr. Sybille von Coelln  
Phon e: +49 211 44 03 57 76  
Fax: +49 211 44 03 57 77  
 
1 If allowed under local laws.  
2 Human rights violations  include:  child labour; forced labour  and all forms of slavery; disregard for occupational 
health and safety and work -related health hazards; violation freedom of association and collective bargaining; 
prohibition of unequal treatment in employment; prohibition of withholding a fair wage; des truction of natural 
resources through environmental pollution; illegal violation of land rights;  unlawful acts committed by pri-
vate/public security forces . 
3 Environmental risks  include: prohibited production, use and/or disposal of mercury (Minamata Conve ntion); 
prohibited production and/or use of substances within the scope of the Stockholm Convention (POPs) and non -
environmentally sound handling of wastes containing POPs; prohibited import/export of hazardous waste as de-
fined by the Basel Convention.  
 siemens -energy.com  
  
 
 
 
 
Unrestricted    © 202 2 Siemens Energy                Page  2 of 4  
E-mail: siemensenergy -ombudsperson@hvc -strafrecht.de  
 
• Within the EU, re ports may also be addressed to local representatives  to be handled locally  to the follow-
ing local contacts : https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/company/about/compliance/reporting -
channels.html  
 
• Siemens Energy Compliance Organization : The Siemens Energy Group Compliance Officer as well as the 
Compliance Officers responsible for the various business  areas  and any other Compliance employee are 
available to receive reports . 
 
• Reports  may also be given to any other company representative or manager.  
 
• Depending on the results of the risk analysis, SE also provides additional project -related notification chan-
nels for those affected locally in individual cases.  
 
b) Anonymity / Confidentiality  
 
If desired, the person submitting the report can do so anonymously. Preferably, this should be done via 
"Speak Up", as this provides  an anonymous reporting channel with the possibility of anonymous contact 
in case of questions . However, Siemens Energy will accept any anonymous report via any of the Siemens 
Energy Reporting Channels.  
 
If a reporter wishes to disclose his/her identity , this will be treated confidentially by Siemens Energy. 
Maintaining the confidentiality of the identity of a reporter is of the highest  priority for Siemens Energy. 
Only persons required to receive and process the report will be informed or will gain knowle dge of it, 
and a strict need -to-know principle will be applied. The identities of persons named in the report , other 
persons affected,  and the content of the report are also treated confidentially.  
4. Who processes the notices and what guidelines apply ? 
a) Independent organization  
 
In principle , the Compliance organization is the designated recipient of reports  from the  Reporting Chan-
nels. The Compliance organization  is responsible for processing and, if necessary, further investigating 
the information received as a result of a report, insofar as this is permissible and required under the 
applicable local law.  
 
Within the scope of the reporting and complaints procedur e, the Compliance organization  is independ-
ent of instructions and reports directly to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of Siemens 
Energy via the Group Compliance Officer. The Group Compliance Officer ensures that employees of the 
Compliance  organization  are subject to a special duty of confidentiality, are impartial , and have the nec-
essary expertise in dealing with complaints.    
 
b) Mode l of operation  
 
Case handling  at Siemens Energy  is conducted  pursuant to the following basic principles :  
 
• Compliance with applicable legislation and internal regulations (e.g. , in case of third -party  involvement)  
• Conducting case management in a fair, respectful, objective , and diligent manner  
• Preservation of the principle of presumption of innocence  and, where legally required,  the right to be 
heard  
• Investigative measures must be suitable, necessary , and appropriate  
 siemens -energy.com  
  
 
 
 
 
Unrestricted    © 202 2 Siemens Energy                Page  3 of 4  
• Maintaining confidentiality and data protection  
• Protection of the ident ity of the reporter  
• Employees involved in case handling  activities are obliged to avoid any actual or potential conflict of 
interest or to disclose one if they become aware of it . In such cases, measures are taken to eliminate the 
conflict of interest - for example, by replac ing the employee.  
 
c) Passing on / involvement of other governance functions and departments  
 
If a report is not hand led by the Compliance organization , it will be forwarded to the responsible internal 
department for further handling.   
 
Once the report has been submitted and forwarded, the responsibility for investigating and processing 
lies with the relevant department. As a general rule, departments carry  out any follow -up measures in-
dependently. If necessary, Compliance supports the responsible departments in processing the case.  In-
formation is passed on according to the strict "need to know principle". Confidentiality is maintained 
throughout the entire process.  
 
SE ensures that employees from other departments working on this matter are independent  and respect 
the model of operation.  
 
5. What is the case handling procedure ? 
Siemens Energy takes every case  seriously.  
In principle , this procedure can be divided into the following steps:  
• Receipt of the report : Receipt of an allegation via a designated reporting channel is usually confirmed to 
the reporter  without undue delay  – but no later than 7 days.   
 
• Plausibility check : The report  is checked for plausibility . It is also discussed whether sufficient information 
is available to initiate an investigation. As necessary, contact is made with the reporte r – if possible – in 
order to obtain further information. The duration of the plausib ility check depends on the individual case. 
If the case is classified as non-plausible, the case is documented accordingly and closed. If new infor-
mation is obtained, it is possible to pursue the matter further.  
 
• Scope of Investigation : If the case is deemed plausible and sufficient information about the potential 
misconduct / violation s is available , the scope of investigation will be defined  according to the nature of 
the allegations .  
In exceptional cases  and/or when required for legal considerati ons, an external law firm is retained to 
conduct the investigation in alignment with or instead of the internal  investigation team , depending on 
the circumstances .  
 
• Conduct of the investigation : The investigation will be conducted in accordance with applicable law s, 
applicable internal regulations , and the model of operation. As relevant  and appropriate , documents are 
reviewed, witness es and subjects are  interview ed, and electronic data is collected and analyzed . In com-
pliance with the principle of proportionality , material facts are established in order to comprehensively 
clarify the potential misconduct. The duration of the investigation depends on the individual case .  
 
• Closing documentation : To finalize an investig ation a closing documentation will be prepared .  
 
• Remedial action : According to the result of the investigation, appropriate remedial  measures may be 
recommended , e.g.,  disciplinary , process -related , legal or financial  actions .  
 siemens -energy.com  
  
 
 
 
 
Unrestricted    © 202 2 Siemens Energy                Page  4 of 4  
 
• Feedback to the reporter:  To the extent legally possible and provided that it does not interfere with the 
investigation or personal rights, a whistleblower may be informed of the status of an investigation into 
the alleged misconduct.  
6. How does Siemens Energy protect reporter s from retaliation ?  
Siemens Energy does not tolerate retaliation  of any kind against a report er. This prohibition applies  to all 
measures that could directly or indirectly affect  an employee  or reporter , including but not limited to , 
the employment relationship, earning potential, bonus payment, professional development,  or other 
work -related interests of the report er. 
Reporters  who make  reports in good faith and to the best of their knowledge are protecte d against re-
taliation. In contrast, persons who improperly , with bad intent,  or maliciously / falsely report an allega-
tion are not protected.  
If a report of ongoing or threatened retaliation  is reported to  the Compliance  organi zation , it will assess 
and address —to the extent practically , procedurally,  and legally possible —the allegation accordingly .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Si emens AG.  