  
 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG  
Effective Date: November 1, 2024  
 
US Internet Privacy Notice - State Rights US Privacy Notice  
Specific Rights for State Residents  
This page supplements the Company’s Privacy Notice which directed you to this page, and sets forth 
information and describes rights that may be applicable to residents of the following US states:  
• California  
• Colorado  
• Connecticut  
• Florida  
• Oregon  
• Texas  
• Utah   
• Virginia  
The purpose of this notice is to provide information to residents of these US states, and to notify them 
of their rights under the law of their state of residence. This section is not applicable to and may not be 
relied upon by anyone who resides outside o f the listed US states. If you reside in one of the listed US 
states, (a) you may have additional rights with respect to your personal data, and (b) you should note 
the following.  
Additional Notices  
Depending on the context of your interactions with us, and the products, services and features that you 
use, the following chart includes the categories of personal information that the Company has collected 
and the categories of third parties with which w e may have disclosed for business purposes within the 
preceding 12 months. Such collected information may be used for the purposes described within the 
Company’s Privacy Notice which directed you to this page. Please note that we do not engage in the 
sale of personal data to third parties at this time.  
Categories of Personal Information  Disclosed to Which Categories of Third  
Parties for Business Purposes  
Personal identifiers  such as a real name, alias, 
postal address, unique personal identifier, online 
identifier, internet protocol address, email 
address, account name, social security number, 
driver’s license number, passport number, 
telephone number, , state identification c ard 
number, insurance policy number, bank account 
number, credit card number, debit card number, 
financial information, medical information, or 
health insurance information.  Affiliates; service providers,  
business partners; professional  
advisors such as legal advisors,  
accountants, and financial  
advisors  
Characteristics of protected classifications 
under California or federal law  such as age, 
gender, race, religion, national origin, physical or 
mental health conditions, citizenship, immigration 
status and marital status  Affiliates; service providers, business partners; 
professional advisors such as legal advisors, 
accountants, and financial advisors; government 
agencies  
  
 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG  
Commercial information , including records of 
personal property, products or services 
purchased, obtained, or considered, or other 
purchasing or consuming histories or tendencies.  Affiliates; service providers, business partners; 
professional advisors such as legal advisors, 
accountants, and financial advisors  
Internet or other electronic network activity  
information, including, but not limited to, browsing 
history, search history, and information regarding 
a consumer’s interaction with an Internet Web 
site, application, or advertisement  Affiliates; service providers, business partners; 
professional advisors such as legal advisors, 
accountants, and financial advisors  
Geolocation data  such as device location, your 
physical location, and IP location  Affiliates; service providers, business partners; 
professional advisors such as legal advisors, 
accountants, and financial advisors  
Biometric and physical characteristics  such 
as audio, electronic, visual, thermal, olfactory, or 
similar information  Affiliates; service providers, business partners; 
professional advisors such as legal advisors, 
accountants, and financial advisors  
Professional or employment -related 
information  Affiliates; service providers; professional advisors 
such as legal advisors, accountants and financial 
advisors  
Education Information  Affiliates; service providers; professional advisors 
such as legal advisors, accountants and financial 
advisors  
Inferences  may be derived from your technical 
information and usage data to create a summary 
of preferences  Affiliates, service providers, professional advisors 
such as legal advisors, accountants, and financial 
advisors.  
 
The sources from which we may collect the personal information may include:  
• the internet sites of the Company and its affiliates that you visit,  
• the mobile applications of the Company and its affiliates that you use;  
• you or your employer, such as via telephone, mail, email, or at trade shows, or in connection 
with potential employment or business opportunities;  
• our customers, vendors, and suppliers  
• third parties from whom we purchase contact data, such as Linked -In 
Exercise of Applicable , Rights  Appeal   
In order to exercise any rights that may be available to you under the law of the state in which you reside 
(for example, any rights to deletion or disclosure of personal data or to appeal a decision that we have 
made with respect to your request), please contact us via this online form. Please note that any requests 
may be subject to verification of the identification of the requestor. The method we would use to verify 
your identity will be different depending on the manner and context in which your data w as collected and  
may require the provision by you of such personal information as may be necessary to match you to our 
records of you (if any). Depending on the laws of your state, you may be entitled to use an authorized 
agent to exercise your rights on your behalf and, if you choose to do so, such an agent may contact us 
in the same manner as described above and  will also be required to verify their own identity and their 
authority to act on your behalf. If you have questions, concerns or comments, please  contact 
dataprotection@siemens -energy.com   
Additional Notices for California Residents  
For California Residents Only   
This section applies and provides further information to California residents and notifies them of their 
rights under California law. This section is not applicable to and may not be relied upon by anyone else 
besides California residents  
 
  
 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG  
California’s “Shine The Light” law:  
California’s “Shine The  Light” law permits those of our customers who are California residents to 
annually request a list of their personal data (if any) that we have disclosed to third parties for direct 
marketing purposes in the preceding calendar year, and the names and addre sses of those third parties. 
At this time, we currently do not disclose personal data to third parties for their direct marketing purposes 
as defined by applicable data privacy law.  
Rights:   
(a) California residents have the right to request that we delete the personal data that we have 
collected about that resident. Please note that there are circumstances under which such a right 
of deletion does not apply, such as where it is reasonable for us to maintain the personal 
information to:  
• Complete the transaction for which the personal information was collected, provide a good or 
service requested or reasonably anticipated, or otherwise perform a contract with the resident.  
• Detect security incidents; protect against malicious, deceptive, fraudulent or illegal activity; or 
prosecute those responsible for that activity.  
• Debug to identify and repair errors that impair existing intended functionality.  
• Exercise free speech, ensure the right of another resident to exercise his or her right of free 
speech, or exercise another right provided for by law, or Comply with a legal obligation.  
• Comply with the California Electronic Communications Privacy Act.  
• Engage in public or peer -reviewed scientific, historical or statistical research in the public 
interest (when deletion of the information is likely to render impossible or seriously impair the 
achievement of such research) if the resident has provided inf ormed consent.  
• To enable solely internal uses that are reasonably aligned with the resident's expectations 
based on the relationship with us.  
• To otherwise use the personal information, internally, in a lawful manner that is compatible with 
the context in which the resident provided the information.  
 
(b) California residents have the right to request that we disclose, with respect to that resident,  
• The categories of personal information we have collected.  
• The categories of sources from which we collected the personal information.  
• The purpose for collecting or selling personal information.  
• The categories of third parties with whom we share personal information for the purpose of 
cross -context behavioral advertising.  
• The specific pieces of personal information we have collected.  
 
(c) California residents have the right to request correction of inaccurate personal information. To 
exercise the rights that may be available to you as described above, please contact 
dataprotection@siemens -energy.com  . You have the right not to be discriminated against by us 
for exercising any of these rights.  