Factsheet  
  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin , Februar y 28, 2025  
Small Modular Reactors (SMR)  
When it comes to a zero -emission future for the energy sector, we increasingly hear the 
term Small Modular Reactors (SMRs) – but does everyone truly understand what they are? 
This factsheet is designed to answer the most pressing questions.  
 
For more insights, be sure to read our article “Revitalizing Nuclear Energy in North America” 
(here ). 
 
 
 
What is an SMR ? 
Small Modular Reactors (SMRs) are compact nuclear power plants, often referred to as 
mini -NPPs. They can be prefabricated and assembled in a factory, then transported to the 
site ready for use. This significantly reduces construction time , complexity  and costs.  
➢ They require significantly less space than conventional nuclear power plants.  
➢ Electricity production can be flexibly adjusted to meet actual demand.  
➢ The safety systems and standards are identical to those of traditional NPPs . 
 
 
How does a Small Modular Reactor work?  
An SMR operates similarly to traditional nuclear reactors but on a smaller scale. The core 
contains nuclear fuel, typically uranium, which releases a significant amount of heat 
through nuclear fission. This heat converts water into steam, which drives a turbine 
connected to a generator, thus producing electricity. The technology is essentially the same 
as that of a conventional  nuclear power plant.  
 
 
 Factsheet  

Factsheet  
  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
 
How small are SMRs? Can they fit in a  backyard ? 
SMRs are significantly smaller than conventional nuclear reactors. They can be 
prefabricated in a factory and transported to the site. The exact size varies depending on 
the design  and power output , but generally, they occupy only a fraction of the space 
required by a conventional reactor. Let’s assume an  SMR requires only about 0.01 square 
kilometers , that is less than two soccer pitches. However, they are not small enough to fit 
in a backyard.  
As a comparison: A  conventional nuclear power plant requires about 1 to 2 square 
kilometers , that ’s approximately 140 to 28 0 football  pitches.  
 
 
Is the output of an SMR comparable to that of a conventional nuclear power plant?  
No, the output is not identical. Most SMR designs generate between 200 to 300 MW of 
energy. There are also plans for larger SMRs in the 400 -500 MW range, such as those being 
developed by Rolls -Royce SMR in collaboration with Siemens Energy. In contrast, a 
conventional nuclear power plant typically has a capacity of about 1 Gigawatt (GW), 
making SMRs about two to five times smaller in output.  
 
 
Do SMRs produce nuclear waste?  
SMRs produce nuclear waste. The amount and type of waste can vary depending on the 
specific design and technology of the SMR. The question  whether SMRs produce less, 
similar, or more nuclear waste than conventional reactors cannot be fully answered today . 
Conclusive results will require the construction and operation of several SMRs.  
 
 
Are there any operational SMRs?  
Yes, there are two operational SMRs worldwide . China and Russia have built and 
commissioned SMRs , one SMR is under construction in Argentina . For example, China 
connected its pebble -bed modular high -temperature gas -cooled reactor (HTR -PM) to the 
grid in 2021. Additionally, many countries are researching SMR technology and plan to use 
SMRs for their future energy supply.  
 
 
 
Factsheet  
  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
When are the first commercial -scale SMRs expected to be operational?  
The European Industrial Alliance for SMRs aims to facilitate and accelerate the 
development, demonstration, and deployment of SMRs in Europe by the early 2030s.  Rolls 
Royce and Siemens Energy are committed to be among the first to bring a SMR into 
operation.  
 
 
What is a Generation 3+ reactor?  
Nuclear reactors are categorized into different generations based on their design, 
technology, and safety features. Generation III+ reactors improve upon Generation III 
reactors, which have been in operation since the 1990s, by offering increased safety, 
efficiency, and operational lifetimes. These reactors have passive systems that function 
without human intervention or external power in emergencies.  
 
 
What is Siemens Energy's contribution?  
Although Siemens Energy is not directly involved in developing the reactors, its decades of 
experience in the conventional nuclear sector make it a natural supplier for such power 
plants. Siemens Energy's portfolio includes steam turbines, generators, and operational 
instrumentation and control systems that monitor the entire power plant.  
 
 
Contact s for journalists  
Sabine Sill  
Phone: +49 173 7196783    
E-mail:  sabine.sill @siemens -energy.com  Claudia Nehring  
Phone: +49 162 1668424  
E-mail: claudia.nehring@siemens -energy.com  
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power pla nts operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers.  
Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An 
estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens 
Energy employs around 100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated  revenue of €3 4.5 billion in 
fiscal year 202 4. www.siemens -energy.com  
 
 