Joint press release  
 
    
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany   
  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin , December 15, 2022  
Press release  by Siemens Energy , ENGIE  Solutions  and Centrax  
First tests f or Power -to-Hydrogen -to-Power 
HYFLEXPOWER demonstrator successfully 
completed  
ENGIE Solutions, Siemens Energy , Centrax, Arttic, the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and four European 
universities,  together forming  the Hyflexpower consortium , today announced the successful completion of 
the first stage of an innovative research project on renewable energy. Located at the Smurfit Kappa Saillat 
Paper Mill in Saillat -sur-Vienne (France), this program becomes the first industrial facility in the w orld to 
introduce an integrated hydrogen  demonstrator.  
 
The aim of the HYFLEXPOWER project is to demonstrate that green hydrogen can serve as a flexible means 
of storing energy which can then be used to power a n industrial  turbine. The hydrogen is produced  on site 
with an electrolyzer and used in a gas turbine with a mix of 30 -vol. % hydrogen and 70 vol. -% natural gas for 
power generation.  
 
The project marks the implementation of  the world’s first industrial -scale  power -to-X-to-power 
demonstration with an a dvanced turbine with high hydrogen content fuel.  In 2023, trials will continue to 
increase the hydrogen ratio up to 100%.  
 
Whil e the large -scale availability of green hydrogen is still some way off, the members of the consortium are 
focused on looking beyo nd 2030 and trialing new technology, such as hydrogen, today. This project will 
allow the partners to understand the technical feasibility of using hydrogen while retaining much of the 
existing energy infrastructure. This demonstrator would open great pers pectives for industry.  
 Joint p ress release  

Joint press release  
 
    
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany   
  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
This highly innovative project involves significant collaboration across several industries, academic bodies, 
and research institutes. The project was inspired by the European Commission’s (EC) ‘Hydrogen Strategy for 
a Climate -Neutral Europe’ report, which  outlines the essential role that hydrogen will play within the 
European Green Deal carbon neutrality and energy transition initiative.  
 
The stakeholders involved in the project are ENGIE Solutions, Siemens Energy, Centrax, ARTTIC, German 
Aerospace Center  (DLR), and Universities NTUA Athens (Greece), Lund (Sweden), Duisburg -Essen (Germany) 
and UCL (UK).  
 
The project, first announced in 2020, involves significant funding by the European Commission, with two -
thirds of the €15.2 million investment coming from  the EU’s Horizon 2020 Framework Programme for 
Research and Innovation *. The next trials for the HYFLEXPOWER project are scheduled for Summer  2023.  
 
Commenting on the end of the initial testing phase, Gaël Carayon, Project Director at ENGIE Solutions, said : 
“Ambitious projects like this one require taking partnerships to the next level and being united in a joint 
mission to make decarbonization  a reality. Hydrogen will play a crucial role in the interaction between 
renewables and electricity storage and gen eration. ENGIE Solutions is proud to participate to this unique 
project.”  
 
Dr. Ertan Yilmaz, HYFLEXPOWER Global Director at Siemens Energy, said: “ With the HYFLEXPOWER project 
we are showcasing that carbon -neutral and reliable power supply is possible - even for energy -intensive 
industries. Hydrogen -ready turbines will play a decisive role in climate -neutral energy, so it is very exciting 
to be looking forward to the next phase of testing.”  
 
* This project has received funding from the European Union’s Hori zon 2020 research and innovation programme 
under grant agreement No. 884229.  
 
  
Joint press release  
 
    
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
Otto-Hahn -Ring  6  
81739 Munich  
Germany   
  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact s for journalists  
Siemens Energy  
Sabine Sill  
Phone:  +49 (173) 7196783  
E-mail:  sabine.sill@siemens -energy.com  
 
Engie Solutions  
Cécile de Bentzmann  
Phone:  +33 6 03 18 97 73  
E-mail:  cecile.de -bentzmann@external.engie.com  
 
Centrax  
Harry Trump  
Phone: +44 1626 358000  
E-mail :  sales@centraxgt.com  
 
Learn more about the project: Hyflexpower  
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press  
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.c om/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and  partners on 
energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, so lutions 
and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmissi on to storage. The 
portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated  
with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been de carbonized. A 
majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for 
renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemen s Energy. 
Siemens Energy employs around  92,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €2 9 billion in fiscal 
year 202 2. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
ENGIE Solutions  supports towns, indu stries and companies in the tertiary sector in achieving their transition towards carbon 
neutrality, helping them to consume less and greener, lower -carbon energy. ENGIE Solutions’ activities are the focal point in France 
for ENGIE Group’s expertise in hea ting and cooling networks, on -site electricity and heat production (photovoltaic and combined 
heat and power), carbon -free mobility (electric, bioNGV and hydrogen), public lighting and operations/maintenance services, and 
energy efficiency. ENGIE Solutions  has more than 15,000 employees in France and a turnover of €4.6 billion.  www.engie -
solutions.com/en  
 