Reference
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Technical solution
 Vattenfall will build a sewage water heat pump
plant at Reuter West, with a total maximum
heating capacity of up to 87 MWth, and connect
it to an existing heat storage facility
 Siemens Energy will supply four large low-
temperature heat pumps from Finspang,
Sweden, and will be responsible for the design,
installation and commissioning
 The heat pumps will use heat from treated
wastewater with a temperature range of 12°C
to 27°C
 The new heat pump plant will supply district
heating to about 45,000 households and save
about 50,000 tons of CO2per yearCommitment to Climate Neutrality Requires Heat TransitionVattenfall's Sewage Water Heat Pump
Plant at Reuter West, Berlin
Challenge
 Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG operates Western
Europe's largest district heating network in
Berlin
 The company is committed to achieving climate
neutrality by 2040, which will require a major
transformation of the city’s heat generation
 Coal-fired heat generation at Reuter West will
be phased out by 2030 and replaced by a
combination of different technologies
 Industrial heat pumps are expected to make up
about a fifth of Vattenfall’s generation mix by
2040
Vattenfall's commitment to climate neutrality contributes to a cleaner environment by phasing out
coal-fired power plants.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains
general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically
reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further
development of the products. The requested performance features are binding only
when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global
GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own
purposes could violate the rights of the owners.For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Business area
15375 Memorial Drive, Suite 700
Houston, TX 77079, USA
For more information, please visit our website: www.siemens-energy.com/heatpumps
E-Mail: gs.sales@siemens-energy.comPublished by and copyright © 2023
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Business area
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, GermanyBenefits
The heat pump plant will have an average thermal output of
around 75 megawatts (MW), making it the largest of its kind in
Germany. It will be able to supply around 45,000 households
per year with district heating. Annual CO2savings will be
around 50,000 tons.
For the project, Vattenfall plans to take part of the treated
water from the Ruhleben sewage treatment plant before it is
discharged into the River Spree and feed it into the heat pump
system on the site of the Reuter West cogeneration plant.
The plant is scheduled to be commissioned in spring 2026.
Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG is a provider of
climate-friendly heat and energy generation from
renewable energies and non-fossil sources for
Berlin. Vattenfall is building on a technology mix
of power-to-heat, waste heat utilization through
large heat pumps, heat storage, sustainable
biomass, heat from thermal waste recycling,
possible geothermal potential and modern gas-
fired power plants that are planned to be
"hydrogen-ready".About the customerIndustrial low-temperature heat pumpThe implementation of the heat pumps ensures a
sustainable and efficient heat supply for Berlin's
district heating network, resulting in energy
savings and reduced emissions.
The successful collaboration between Vattenfall
and Siemens Energy on numerous projects,
including the Potsdamer Platz high-temperature
heat pump pilot project, reinforces their strategic
partnership, opening doors for future joint
ventures in the pursuit of climate neutrality.
“Our goal is clear: to phase out coal
by 2030 and achieve climate
neutrality by 2040. To achieve this,
we are working hard to transform
our heating business.”
Christian Feuerherd, CEO Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG
