This PDF offers an advanced interactive experience. To explore the interactive elements 
move your mouse over buttons, arrows and tabs and click to reveal additional information. 
For best view, please use Acrobat Reader X or higher .We power the world 
with innovative  gas turbines  
Siemens Energy gas turbine portfolio

SGT-100 packages  for power generationGas turbines  
from 2 to 593  MW
The Siemens Energy gas turbine range 
has been designed and tailored to help 
meet our  customers‘  challenges in a 
dynamic market environment.
Our models range from 2 to 593 MW, 
fulfilling the requirements of a wide 
spectrum of applications in terms of 
efficiency,  reliability, flexi bility, and 
environmental compa   ti bility. The 
products offer low lifecycle costs and 
an excellent return on investment. 

For more information, please click on a product name
General note:  
All simple cycle and mechanical drive performance data in this document are gross values at ISO ambient conditions.  
All combined cycle performance data in this document are gross values at ISO ambient conditions. 
Siemens Energy gas turbines overview
Industrial  
gas turbines
Gas turbines in the range of 
0 – 15  MW
Aeroderivative 
gas turbinesHeavy-duty 
gas turbines
Gas turbines in the range of 
15 – 100  MW
Gas turbines in the range of 
100 – 600  MW
60 Hz
50 Hz
50 Hz or60 Hz
Siemens Energy HL-class  gas turbines are paving 
the way to the next level of efficiency and perfor -
mance. The evolutionary development step, derived 
from proven H-class technology, combines a series 
of new but already tested technologies like 
super-efficient internal cooling features for blades 
and vanes and an advanced combustion system to 
increase firing temperature. 
The result: A technology carrier to the next level 
with a combined cycle efficiency beyond 64% .
The HL-class consists of two engines: SGT5-9000HL 
and SGT6-9000HL.
• Derived from proven Siemens Energy H-class 
technology
• Pushing efficiency and performance to the next 
level
• Competitive service model with  
33,000 Equivalent Base Hours (EBH) / 
1,250 Equivalent Starts (ES)
SGT6-9000HL-based power plant
SGT5-9000HL 
SGT6-9000HL
Heavy-duty gas turbinesPower output:  440 – 593  MW
The SGT5-8000H  offers outstanding performance 
and high operational flexibility. The air-cooled tur -
bine provides a power output of 450 MW . With 
short start-up times and high load variations, the 
turbine offers low lifecycle costs and helps to meet 
fluctuating power demands.
The turbine is the core component of highly effi -
cient  gas-fired power plants, designed for 675 MW 
with an efficiency higher than 62%  in combined 
cycle operation.
With more than 2.5 million fired hours , the  
SGT-8000H series provides mature technology with 
verified reliability and availability.
• Outstanding performance 
• High operational flexibility  
• Proven in commercial operations
New Capital, Egypt
SGT5-8000H
Heavy-duty gas turbinePower output:  450  MW
The SGT6-8000H  offers outstanding performance 
and high operational flexibility. The air-cooled tur -
bine provides a power output of 310 MW . With 
short start-up times and high load variations, the 
turbine offers low life-cycle costs and helps to meet 
fluctuating power demands.
The turbine is the core component of highly effi -
cient gas-fired power plants, designed for 472 MW 
with an efficiency higher than around 62% in com -
bined cycle operation.
With more than 2.5 million fired hours , the  
SGT-8000H series provides mature technology with 
verified reliability and availability.
• Outstanding performance 
• High operational flexibility 
• Proven in commercial operations
Dangjin 3, South Korea
SGT6-8000H
Heavy-duty gas turbinePower output:  310  MW
The proven SGT5-4000F gas turbine has a robust 
design  with internal cooling air passages for 
trusted long-term operation and fast start-up 
capability . The advanced annular combustion 
chamber with individually replaceable heat shields 
allows for easy and fast  walk-in maintenance . 
Hydraulic Clearance Optimization (HCO) reduces 
clearance losses to increase the gas turbine effi -
ciency and minimize degradation at start-up and 
shut down.
Today, more than 360 turbines  have been sold . The 
installed fleet has accumulated an impressive fleet 
experience of over 20.5 million equivalent operat -
ing hours , and a fleet reliability  of more than 99% .
• Proven design, large fleet experience
• Easy maintenance, high availability
• High operational flexibility
Ribatejo, Portugal
SGT5-4000F
Heavy-duty gas turbinePower output: 329 – 385  MW
The SGT6-5000F  gas turbine offers economical 
power generation with fast start-up for peak, 
intermediate, or base load duty. It achieves peak 
values for reliability and continuous operation with 
highest performance values in its class . 
Today, more than 380 turbines have been sold . 
The installed fleet has accumulated more than 17 
million equivalent operating hours, with a fleet 
reliability  of over 99% .
• Highest power output for 60 Hz F-class
• Fast start-up and load changing capabilities
• Low emissions with an NO X emission of  
≤9 ppmvd on gas and ≤25 ppmvd on oil
La Caridad, Sonora, Mexico
SGT6-5000F
Heavy-duty gas turbinePower output:  215 – 260  MW
The SGT5-2000E  gas turbine is a proven, robust 
engine for the 50 Hz market which is used in simple 
cycle or combined cycle processes with or without 
combined heat and power. It is suitable for all load 
ranges , including peak load. 
The SGT5-2000E offers outstanding fuel flexibility .  
It can be fired with low calorific gases or gases 
containing CO 2, H 2S and N 2, as well as with crude oil 
and other liquid fuels with high viscosity. It provides 
low NO X emissions , even in the part-load range. 
Today, around 400 turbines have been sold, and 
additionally, more than 270 units  under license. 
Our installed fleet has accumulated over 21 million 
equivalent operating hours . The SGT-2000E series 
fleet´s overall best-in-class  reliability exceeds 
99.5% .
• Best-in-class reliability
• High operational and fuel flexibility
• Easy maintenance
Az Zour South, Kuwait
SGT5-2000E
Heavy-duty gas turbinePower output:  198  MW
The SGT6-2000E  gas turbine is a proven, robust  
engine for the 60 Hz market which is used in simple 
cycle or combined cycle processes with or without 
combined heat and power supply. It is suitable for 
all load ranges, including peak load. 
The SGT6-2000E offers outstanding fuel flexibility .  
It can be fired with low calorific gases or gases 
containing CO 2, H 2S and N 2, as well as with crude oil 
and other liquid fuels with high viscosity. It provides 
low NO X emissions , even in the part-load range. 
Today, more than 100 turbines have been sold, 
resulting in a fleet experience of over 9 million 
equivalent operating hours . The SGT-2000E series 
fleet´s overall best-in-class  reliability constantly 
exceeds 99.5% .
• Best-in-class reliability
• High operational and fuel flexibility
• Easy maintenance
Charles D. Lamb Energy Center, Oklahoma, USA
SGT6-2000E
Heavy-duty gas turbinePower generation:  117  MW
The market leading SGT-800 industrial gas turbine 
offers broad flexibility .
The SGT-800 combines a simple, robust design, for 
high reliability  and easy maintenance , with high 
efficiency  and low emissions .
Sustainable and future proof. Continuously 
improving green fuel  capabilities and moving 
towards 100% hydrogen  capability latest by 2025.
Designed for flexible operation makes it perfectly 
suited for peaking power  and grid support .
Excellent simple cycle  efficiency and steam-raising 
capability make it outstanding in cogeneration and 
combined cycle  installations.
More than 480 units sold and over 12 million 
operating hours . An excellent choice for both 
power generation and industrial applications .
• Proven reliability
• Flexible solutions
• Excellent performance
Amata Nakorn, Chonburi, Thailand
SGT-800
Industrial gas turbinePower generation:   45.3 – 62.5 MW(e)
With maximized uptime, top-class performance , and a 
low environmental footprint offering the customer 
high lifetime profitability, the SGT-750  industrial gas 
turbine is a perfect choice for the oil and gas industry as 
well as industrial power generation. The modular and 
flexible engine enables onshore or offshore applications, 
mechanical drive or heat and power. It combines a 
robust, reliable design with high efficiency and low 
emissions. 
The SGT-750 offers broad flexibility with different rating 
options  due to excellent part load capability. When 
running on lower load the maintenance intervals will be 
extended, low emissions can be guaranteed while the 
efficiency still is kept over 40%.
The SGT-750 has a track record of successful 
performance after years in operation and verified results 
in various applications. Units are sold for use in both 
power generation and compressor applications such as 
pipelines and liquefied natural gas (LNG).
• Maximized uptime
• High efficiency
• Low emissions
 SGT-750 combined heat and power plant in Altamira, Mexico
SGT-750
Industrial gas turbinePower generation:   39.8 MW(e)
Mechanical drive:    34.0 – 41.0 MW
Thanks to its wide fuel range capability and design 
features, the SGT-700  is a perfect choice for several 
onshore applications: Industrial power generation,  
oil and gas power generation, and mechanical drive 
applications. 
It performs well in combined cycle plants , and 
combined heat and power plants . 
The SGT-700 gas turbine is an evolution of the 
proven SGT-600 and is specifically designed for 
higher power output . It offers easy on-site or off-
site maintenance , and operates with a wide range 
of gaseous and liquid fuels on Dry Low Emission 
(DLE). 
More than 125 units  have been sold with over 4 
million operating hours . The fleet-leading gas 
turbine has over 125,000 operating hours. 
• Robust, reliable design 
• High fuel flexibility
• Low emissions
Three SGT-700 packages for mechanical drive
SGT-700
Industrial gas turbinePower generation:   32.8 – 35.2 MW(e)
Mechanical drive:    33.7 – 36.2 MW
High reliability and availability in combination with 
good fuel flexibility and third-generation DLE makes 
the SGT-600  a perfect choice for several onshore 
applications: Industrial power generation, oil and 
gas power generation, and mechanical drive 
applications. Within the IPG applications, the 
turbine performs well in c ombined heat and 
power plants , and combined cycle plants . 
The industrial gas turbine combines a robust, 
reliable design with high fuel flexibility , and low 
emissions . 
More than 350 units  have been sold with over 11.5 
million operating hours . The fleet-leading gas 
turbine has 160,000 operating hours.
• Robust, reliable design 
• High fuel flexibility
• Low emissions
SGT-600 installation for both mechanical drive and power generation
SGT-600
Industrial gas turbinePower generation:   24.5 MW(e)
Mechanical drive:    25.2 MW
The SGT-400  is a twin-shaft gas turbine available in 
different configurations and power ratings to 
support power generation and mechanical drive 
applications from 10 – 15 MW. The twin-shaft 
arrangement allows for commonality of parts in 
mixed-duty installations.
The gas turbine offers the highest efficiency  in its 
power class, incorporating the latest aerodynamic 
and combustion technologies. 
With about 20 years of operating experience, the 
SGT-400 is proven in both offshore and onshore 
applications. Over 420 units  have been sold with 
more than 7 million hours operating experience . 
The fleet leader has accumulated more than 
120,000 operating hours.
• Latest aerodynamic and combustion technology 
• Suitable for all climates, onshore and offshore
• High power-to-weight ratio
The SGT-400 is available as a factory-assembled package
SGT-400
Industrial gas turbinePower generation:   10.5 – 14.3 MW(e)
Mechanical drive:    10.9 – 14.9 MW
The SGT-300 industrial gas turbine has a rugged 
industrial design that enables high efficiency,  
reliability , and excellent emissions performance  
in a broad spectrum of applications for both power  
generation and mechanical drive. 
The gas turbine is a proven  unit for all electrical 
power generation and cogeneration applications.  
It operates on a wide range of gaseous and liquid 
fuels. The compact arrangement, on-site or off-site 
maintainability, and inherent reliability of the SGT-
300 make it an ideal gas turbine for the demanding 
oil and gas industry. 
Over 175 units  have been sold, with more than  
7.5 million equivalent operating hours .
• Low maintenance requirements
• Low emissions
• Single-shaft version for power generation,  
twin-shaft version for mechancial drive 
applications
The SGT-300 twin-shaft version is used for mechanical drive
SGT-300
Industrial gas turbinePower generation:   7.9 MW(e)
Mechanical drive:    8.4 – 9.1 MW
The SGT-100  industrial gas turbine is a proven unit 
for all electrical power generation and mechanical 
drive applications. The compact arrangement, 
on-site or off-site maintainability, and inherent 
reliability makes it an ideal gas turbine for the 
demanding oil and gas industry .
The gas turbine has a rugged industrial design that 
enables high efficiency  and excellent emissions 
performance  on a wide range of gaseous and 
liquid fuels. 
More than 420 units have been sold with more than 
29.5 million operating hours. The lead package has 
over 180,000 equivalent hours of operation .
• Robust and reliable product
• Wide range of gaseous and liquid fuels
• Single-shaft version for power generation or  
twin-shaft version for mechanical drive 
applications
The SGT-100 combines advanced technology with robust construction
SGT-100
Industrial gas turbinePower generation:   5.1 – 5.4 MW(e)
Mechanical drive:    5.7 MW
The Siemens Energy SGT-50  gas turbines is an 
industrial gas turbine with a power output range of 
2MW. The turbine combines minimal maintenance 
in a compact footprint that make it ideal for 
continuous power generation onshore and 
offshore, emergency and standby power and 
combined heat and power (CHP) plants. 
Because of it’s simple,  low maintenance design, 
high reliability and operational experience , the 
SGT-50 turbine generator packages are the 
preferred solution for 2MW power requirements. 
The wide fuel range enables operation on 
extremely low heating value fuels, landfill gas, 
associated gas from crude oil production, and liquid 
fuels including some crude oils. They are also 
available in an externally fired configuration for 
those customers with off-combustor technologies.
Over 1,000 units have been sold with more than 25 
million hours operating experience. The fleet leader 
has accumulated more than 250,000 operating 
hours .
• Robust and reliable
• Low emissions
• Suitable for all climates – onshore and offshore
• Available in a mobile configuration SGT-50 units providing base load power in Russia
SGT-50
Industrial gas turbinePower generation:   2 MW(e)
With class-leading reliability and availability, the 
SGT-A35 is a proven, dependable choice in power 
generation and mechanical drive applications. It is 
qualified to meet the stringent standards of the oil 
and gas industry in both onshore and offshore 
service.
The aeroderivative gas generator is highly tolerant 
of transient excursions and challenging mission 
cycles, and can be easily exchanged at site, 
reducing maintenance downtime and cost. Both 
conventional and DLE combustion systems are 
available, including dual fuel capability.
Evolved through decades of technological 
advancements, the SGT-A35 has accumulated over 
46 million operating hours , with over 850 units 
sold .
• Proven track record in the oil and gas industry
• Several variants to meet different power needs
• Lightweight, compact, modular package design 
to maximize power density
Two SGT-A35 offshore generating sets installed on  
a Floating Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO) vessel
SGT-A35
Aeroderivative gas turbinePower generation:   31.3 – 37.3 MW(e)
Mechanical drive:    32.2 – 38.5 MW
Based on proven aeroderivative design, the SGT-
A05 gas turbines are flexible, compact and 
lightweight designs that are ideally suited for 
decentralized power generation offering high 
efficiency and fast start-up capabilities.
The gas turbine engine is designed to operate on a 
wide variety of fuels . The fuel system operations 
include dual fuel, steam, and water injection. DLE 
technology is also available.
More than 1,720 SGT-A05 gas turbines have been 
sold for industrial use to more than 500 customers 
in 55 countries, accumulating an impressive 133 
million operating hours since its introduction in 
1963.
• More than 1,720 gas turbines supplied
• Full engine power within 60 seconds 
• High electrical and cycle efficiency 
Power station at Mitchelstown, Ireland
SGT-A05
Aeroderivative gas turbinePower generation: 4.0 – 5.8 MW(e)
Siemens Energy Hydrogen Gas Turbines for our sustainable future
Siemens gas turbines are operating in 
more than 100 countries.
We provide proven technology with over 
7,000 installed heavy-duty, industrial 
and aeroderivative gas turbines.
Move your mouse over one of the  
reference highlights to see details, and 
use the buttons below to show refer -
ences for each gas turbine.
or 
choose  
your 
turbine:Reference highlight 
for mechanical drive Reference highlight 
for power generation

Siemens gas turbines are operating in 
more than 60 countries.
We provide proven technology with over 
7,000 installed heavy-duty, industrial 
and aeroderivative gas turbines.
Move your mouse over one of the  
reference highlights to see details, and 
use the buttons below to show refer -
ences for each gas turbine.
or 
choose  
your 
turbine:Reference highlight 
for mechanical drive Reference highlight 
for power generation


Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this doc-
ument only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those 
described, or which may undergo modification in the course of 
further development of the products. The requested performance 
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in 
the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.For more information, please contact our  
Siemens Energy Customer Support Center.  
Phone: +49 180 524 70 00  
Fax: +49 180 524 24 71  
(Charges depending on provider)  
E–mail: support@siemens-energy.com 
https://www.siemens-energy.com/gasturbines
© Siemens Energy 2022