Energy Saving 
Solutions
Cut energy costs by up to 60 %
www.siemens -energy.com
The Task
Rotating equipment accounts for over two -
thirds of the plant's auxiliary power 
demand. About 30 % of the drives such as 
pumps and fans could be run more 
efficiently. This considerable savings 
potential is waiting to be tapped especially 
when having in mind that more than 97 % 
of the entire life -cycle costs of rotational 
equipment are for energy needed to 
operate them. Scope of Energy Saving Solution
Siemens Energy provides a holistic approach to modernize the entire drive train to enable significant energy savings. We focu s on rotating 
equipment operating with inefficient mechanical controls (throttle, bypass, dampers, inlet vane control etc.) and under SPPA -E3000 Drive 
Modernization we optimize the energy efficiency of the entire drive train by implementing innovative high -quality Variable -Speed Drive 
solutions and energy -saving motors.
Your Benefits
Cut energy costs up to 60 % 
Short payback period 
Reduced CO2emissions
Reduced mechanical maintenance
Increased availability 
Efficient process control
Single partner for entire project
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Unrestricted
Energy savings projects are often aided and 
funded by governmental programs.
Our Solution
The Siemens Energy solution comprises of 
assessing the potential savings, analyzing 
suitable measures and implementing them 
to modernize a drive train. The focus is first 
set on those drives that promise a short -term 
payback for the cost of the upgrade.
Our solution covers these measures among 
others:
▪Variable -Speed Drives instead of 
mechanical throttling, 
▪modernization of installed Variable -Speed 
Drives, 
▪usage of energy -saving motors and
▪recovery of decelerating energy during 
breaking.
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
Siemens Energy, Inc.
15375 Memorial Drive, Suite 700
Houston, Texas 77079, USA
For more information, please contact
Email: sppa -e3000.energy@siemens -energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. 
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose 
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.
For calculation of Energy 
Savings and Amortization 
please contact us at 
sppa -e3000.energy@siemens -
energy.com
A reference throttle control system when replaced with an energy 
efficient alternative such as VSD enables significant energy savings.
Your optimization project typically is split into three main 
phases:
1. Assessment of potential
We assess the theoretical savings potential and if this 
estimation reveals theoretical potential for savings, we make 
you a concrete proposal for a site analysis of your entire drive 
train.
2. Energy -efficiency analysis
Suitable drive systems are identified, and the energy -cost-
savings potential is precisely quantified. Based on the actual 
on-site conditions, we draw up a concrete optimization 
concept.3. Technical implementation 
▪Planning and engineering.
▪Replacement of obsolete and inefficient hardware.
▪Installation of high -quality Variable -Speed Drive s and high -
efficiency energy -saving motors.
▪Commissioning and parameterization of the components.
▪Optimization of operating times and operating points.
▪Final measurements, calculation of power consumption.
Siemens Energy ensures smooth replacement, encompassing 
everything from project planning through to commissioning, and 
then provides ongoing service support. 