Protect your 
power plant 
with continuous
security
Omnivise T3000 s
iemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
Value & Benefits
Minimum Risk
Extensive Experience
• Omnivise T3000 in use in over 3,500 units worldwide
Global experts
• Presence in 190 countries
• Comprehensive knowledge of particular markets and their special requirements
Continuous investments in R&D
• Continuously innovating to allow you to be ready, flexible and resilient today
and in the future
• Comprehensive knowledge of particular markets and their special requirements
Reliable Day-To-Day Operation
Tried and Tested Technology
• Clear and intuitive operation
• First rate alarm handling for quick reaction in critical situations
• One click access to root cause analysis
• Clear instructions and transparency of potential upcoming issues
• Integrated workflows, integrated Alarm Management & Analysis
• User friendly engineering
 Investment Protection
Long Term Supported Release:
• Includes long term support for min. 8 years of lifecycle protection
• Online installation of patches and updates for uninterrupted availability 
• Additional powerful security capabilities for compliance with
challenging requirements
• Innovated hard- and software for flexibility in automation and communication
performance
• Small size DCS for efficient and reliable operation of remote and  distributed
units and plant auxiliaries
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 2Omnivise  T3000 | Continuous security
Keeping Your System Secure
 
 A secure system must always 
be kept up to date to reduce 
vulnerability
Every change you make could impact connected comp-
onents, while vulnerabilities in one place may lead to 
problems across the system. The optimal way to manage 
security effectively is through integrated services: That
is exactly what T3000 offers.• We understand the power generation OT landscape 
better than a pure IT company.
• We are engineers, manufacturers and power generation 
asset managers, with profound OT know-how.
• We understand that patching and upgrading OT compo -
nents is different than IT patches.
• The risks are greater, the potential for operational  
impact is higher and the need for specialized knowledge 
and skills is more urgent.
• We also understand the balance between stringent  
IT security and the need for physical security within a 
power plant.
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 3Omnivise  T3000  | Continuous security
Continuous development of cyber security features contributes to 
main  taining high plant security level for the entire lifecycle of your asset
Security features
Security processes
Security consciousness
Enhanced Security TestingHandling of vulnerabilities
Security Zone Architecture  
driven by NERC CIP V5, VGB-S-175  
and IEC 62443-3-3  / IEC 62443-4-1Cyber Security features of 
T3000, e. g.:
• Centralized Online Security Patch Management
• Malware Protection Solution
• Security Information and Event Management  
(SIEM)
• Configuration Change Monitoring
• Application Whitelisting
• Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS)
• System Hardening
• Secure Remote Access
• Secure Data Gateway
• Active Directory
• Centralized Backup and Restore
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 4Omnivise  T3000 | Continuous security
Simple, Secure Patch & Update Process
Centralized Deployment for efficient secure patch implementation
Security Server deploys security 
patches and virus patterns from a 
central point• User friendly via central deployment
• Flawless patch  installation through 
control, monitoring and visibility from a 
single device
• Lower potential for security gaps  resulting 
from un-patched components
• Transparency of the software status of the 
relevant components
Terminal
Server
Security
Server
Thin Clients Application
ServerFile Contains Patch
Patch Deployment
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 5Omnivise  T3000  | Continuous security
Online Patch and Update capability of the Application 
Server based on system integrated redundancy• Efficient administration of the 
redundant  Application Server
• Easy and fast recovery in case of 
hardware failures
• Patches and Updates can be 
 implemented online
• Reliable operation and availability with 
no downtime required during an updatePa
tch or Update 
available 
New T3000 or 
3rd party 
security patchesPatch or Update
requires installation
Install the servers 
in sequence
Patch or Update Completed
Online installation with no downtime of the DCS systemFull Operation during
Patch and Update process
Only a continuously maintained installation can be optimally kept “up to date” 
and secured
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 6Lorem ipsum l  
O mnivise  T3000  | Continuous security
 Vulnerability Management
The operational technology (OT) environment and land-
scape is constantly evolving, so vulnerability management
is more important than ever before. Organizations need a 
modern, comprehensive strategy to quickly and accurately 
identify vulnerabilities and misconfigurations and reme-
diate them, tailored to your standard installed T3000 
plant. Siemens Energy T3000 provides a comprehensive 
strategy to quickly and precisely identify vulnerabilities and 
operational risks so they can be mitigated and remediated 
immediately, to avoid any potential for harm. This approach 
is customized for your T3000 plant.
The Challenge
Many software and hardware vulnerabilities may have 
operational consequences. These vulnerabilities can range 
from affecting physical devices, to modifying underlying 
execution procedures, to leaving security informationexposed. Typically, operational technologies are actively 
scanned for vulnerabilities, but only during shutdown. 
Given the understandable reluctance to shut down a plant, 
this means fewer opportunities exist to scan for vulnerabili-
ties. Even on rare occasions when a system network is 
analyzed, plant operators struggle to actively prioritize and 
schedule remediation. The plant’s operational network 
remains unsecure.
Solution
Considering the importance of having a well defined 
strategy for vulnerability management, we have developed
a comprehensive srategy, which accurately identifies 
vulnerabilities and misconfigurations and remediates them, 
specifically for your standard installed T3000 plant.
We frequently issue security advisories to communicate any 
affected vulnerability, via our I&C Customer Portal.
Step 1
• Active and continuous 
scanning of all stan -
dard HW  / SW / Firmware 
release products 
• R&D notification of  
the vulnerabilities in 
real timeS
tep 2
Evaluation of vulnerabili-
ties and T3000 specific risk 
assessment tailored to 
your power plant installed 
standard (given that you 
follow our standard 
release asset list) including 
affected compo-nents, 
probability, priority, impact 
and exploitability 
published regularly in the 
Customer Portal Security 
Announcement Step 4
• Remote Service of regular
inspection to identify, inves-
tigate, prioritize and remedi-
ate vulnerabilities as well
as possible misconfiguration 
in the entire environment
of standard delivered 
T3000
• Our service does not need 
active scanning and thanks
to our state of the art online 
patching solution, can be 
done also online
• Service can be ordered on 
demand or on regular basis
(per month, quarterly, 
annually)
Step 3
Remediation plan for every single vulnerability, 
communicated through the Customer Portal Security 
AnnouncementStep  
01Step  
04
Step  
02Step  
03This first of its kind 
solution, brings continuous 
asset and vulnerability 
visibility to operational 
networks.
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 7Omnivise  T3000 | Continuous security
What’s Coming Next?
The next developments will introduce new security mechanisms to further 
enhance the communication security and operation of the system.
 For example:
• Enhanced T3000 Hardening based on CIS bench-
mark
• Improvement of communication security by extension of
input validation
• Two-factor authentification for cRSP
• Full integration of Unidirectional Gateway (UDG)Beyond T3000 itself, we can also offer services to help 
protect your investment:
• Service contract 24 / 7 availability of system experts
• Remote proactive services to detect potential issues
before they escalate
• I & C Monitors & Advisors implement digitalization into
the traditional DCS service
• Software or System Maintenance Agreement – we keep
your software “up to date” and secure
For additional information or questions, please 
contact your local sales representative. 
©
 2022 Siemens Energy Page 8Omnivise  T3000  | Continuous security

Minimum
system
complexity
Data
transparency
Flexible
connectivity
No
subsystemSecurity
by design
Clever
HMIEasy
operation
Minimum
system
complexity
Data
transparency
Flexible
connectivity
No
subsystemSecurity
by design
Clever
HMIEasy
operationFrom 2005  …
… to 2035 and beyond  …
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 9Omnivise  T3000  | Continuous security
Omnivise 
T3000
 Published by and copyright © 2022
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
For more information, please visit our website: 
www.siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.