siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000Safeguarding  
critical infrastructure
Omnivise T3000 Cybersecurity
Focus on energy security
The changing  
threat landscape
The entire power generation and  
distribution landscape is becoming  
more complex and fragmented, as  
the move to renewables and more  
distributed generation accelerates.  
This leads to environmental and  
sustainability benefits but means  
operators now face significant new  
cybersecurity risks. In this paper we  
show how customers can use new and  
more advanced Instrumentation &  
Controls (I&C) solutions to deal with  
these challenges. 
The past 20 years have seen a rapidly 
accelerating increase in cyber threats 
specifically targeted on Critical National 
Infrastructure (CNI), largely driven  
by increased connectivity. We live in a 
connected world and expect to have rapid, 
simple interaction between business and 
consumer systems as a matter of course. 
As more enterprises move to the cloud, 
the level of connectivity grows, and  
cybersecurity concerns grow at the same 
rate. Every point of connection, every 
individual transaction brings a certain 
level of risk with it, and all of us now have 
to be conscious of how to stay safe – and 
keep others safe – online. The issues are 
even more dramatic when we consider  
the security of our infrastructure. 
A more complex market
Every state classifies key installations and 
systems as CNI, which means damage to 
such systems will cause serious disruption, 
inconvenience and potentially much worse. Of these systems, perhaps the most 
important are power generation capabilities, 
because damage to these could bring all 
other systems to a halt, with potentially 
devastating impact. 
None of us are immune to cyber-attacks, 
and the real story is not so much the major 
attacks, which are headline news, but the 
continuous need for safeguarding, day  
by day, against constant, low level threats. 
How big a problem is this? Citing the annual 
Cybercrime Report from Cyber  security 
Ventures (the world’s leading cybercrime 
researcher and publisher) Siemens Energy 
calculates that financial damage caused  
by cyber-attacks in the 12 months to 
mid-2022 had reached $6 trillion US. 
That’s the size of the German and French 
economies combined: a lot of damage. 
2
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000
Convergence of IT  
and OT
The convergence of Information Technology 
(IT) and Operational Technology (OT)  
is a factor in the growth of cybersecurity 
threats. Traditionally, these two technology 
areas have been operationally separate, 
using different platforms, with different 
objectives and characteristics. IT systems 
manage the core business tasks for a 
business, are typically updated several 
times a year, are easy to outsource and  
are rapidly being moved to the cloud in 
most enterprises. As business systems  
are Internet capable, they are inherently 
“hackable”, subject to regular attacks  
that target data as the key resource. 
OT systems represent the core assets  
used to carry out the true business of  
the enterprise. This means the production 
assets, ranging from turbines and  
other generation equipment (for power  
companies) through to automated  
production machinery and supporting 
systems (for manufacturers). The key 
requirement for such assets is availability. 
In energy markets, especially, being offline 
when contracted to deliver power to the 
grid is a very serious matter. OT assets need to be seen as a separate 
class of technology, and require their own 
management approach and cybersecurity 
strategies. 
Simply applying IT methods to OT will not 
deliver the desired outcomes. In addition, 
OT assets tend to have much longer  
life cycles than IT systems, so will normally  
be less cyber-mature than equivalent  
IT systems and are also more accessible  
than in the past, because they are more 
connected.
Convergence makes businesses much 
more efficient and responsive to changing 
needs. This inevitable trend, however,  
can make OT assets visible to external bad 
actors for the first time. Earlier threats 
required physical access to the production 
assets concerned, delivered by USB sticks. 
Now, it is possible to enter the environment 
through the Internet, which is a major 
change. 
3
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000As systems become 
more integrated,  
so the cybersecurity 
strategies we adopt 
must adapt and 
integrate as well. 
Compliance  
and certification
Regulatory evolution 
and growth
Governments and pan-region regulatory 
bodies have become increasingly concerned 
about the potential for serious economic 
and social disruption that could be caused  
by systematic CNI cyber-attacks, particularly 
targeting power generation and distribution 
businesses. 
Other regulatory bodies enforce their own standards, of course, but most  
of them use either NIS or NERC as models for development. 
EU Network & Information 
Systems (NIS) directiveThis is the Europe-wide framework for protecting  
all forms of IT-based and IT-reliant systems and  
infrastructures. Based on an original European 
Commission Directive of 2016, the regulations have 
been continuously updated to reflect the changing 
nature and intensity of cyber-threats. Though primarily 
targeted at enhanced cyber  security, the regulatory 
scope is very broad, covering any incident that is likely 
to disrupt major economic systems, and for any form  
of threat. At best practice level from conception to 
retirement, with lowest possible operational risk.
North American Electric 
Reliability Corporation 
Critical Infrastructure 
Protection (NERC CIP)This is the United States cybersecurity framework, 
designed to manage threats and protect infrastructure, 
with a key focus on what is terms the Bulk Electric 
System (BES). NERC is the de facto standard for the 
whole of North America, specifically adopted across 
most Canadian provinces and in some parts of Mexico. 
NERC CIP essentials include effective protection against 
attacks, through to restore and recovery plans. Strict 
controls are enforced across all BES operations and 
immediate notification of threats to the regulator is  
a basic requirement. 
Critical Infrastructure 
(KRITIS)Developed by the German Federal Office for Information 
Security (Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik), 
the KRITIS system is compliant and compatible with the 
over-arching EU framework (NIS), but adds requirements 
related to registration, inspection and information  
specifically related to the German economy. New standards have now been introduced 
for CNI companies, while regulators  
are more efficient in testing compliance  
and have greater powers to punish 
non-compliance. As we will see, the basic 
regulatory frameworks and corresponding 
standards are in a state of continuous 
evolution, while new concepts are also 
being tested. Key regulatory regimes 
include (but are not limited to):
4
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T30004
Country Title Type
Brazil Resolução normativa aneel Nº 964 Law
Manual de Procedimentos da Operação Regulation
Requisitos operacionais para centros de operação e instalações da Rede de Operação Regulation
China China Cybersecurity Law Law
EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Regulation
Cybersecurity Act Regulation
Cyber Resilience Act Regulation
Austria NIS Act Law
France Critical Infrastructures Information Protection (CIIP) Law Law
Germany IT-Sicherheitsgesetz 1.0 Law
IT-Sicherheitsgesetz 2.0 Law
Telekommunikationsgesetz Law
Energiewirtschaftsgesetz Law
BSI-Kritisverordnung 2.0 - BSI-KritisV 2.0 Regulation
IT-Sicherheit im Energiesektor Law
IT-Sicherheitskatalog für Strom- und Gasnetze Law
IT-Sicherheitskatalog für Energieanlagen Law
Verordnung zum Schutz von Übertragungsnetzen Law
Japan Act on Prohibition of Unauthorized Computer Access Law
The Basic Act on Cybersecurity Law
Qatar National ICS security Standard Law
Saudi Arabia Essential Cybersecurity Controls (ECC – 1: 2018) Law
Critical Systems Cybersecurity Controls Law
Operational Technology Cybersecurity Controls Law
United Kingdom The Network and Information Systems Regulations 2018 Law
United States North American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical Infrastructure Protection (NERC CIP) Law
NIST Cybersecurity Framework 1.1 Law
Executive Order on Securing the United States Bulk-Power System Law
Examples of the cybersecurity laws and regulations in place in different selected countries and parts of the world. EU
5
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T30005
6
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000Standards and  
certification
Regulations impose requirements on CNI 
and other organisations. To be compliant, 
and prove compliance, these bodies  
must meet global standards and achieve 
certification to demonstrate that fact. 
Standards in cybersecurity are extremely 
detailed and complex, requiring high 
levels of investment and exceptional 
capabilities. 
It is worth noting that Gartner’s latest 
report into cybersecurity proposes 
reframing the role of Chief Information 
Security Officer (CISO) away from simply 
being the person charged with preventing 
breaches and ensuring rapid recovery to 
being a corporation’s lead risk manager. 
This implies a more proactive role, as 
businesses seek to build competitive 
advantage on assured cybersecurity 
performance. The new breed of security 
standard builds on this broader, more 
inclusive definition, putting cybersecurity 
where it should be: not just as a defensive 
structure but as an effective way to 
strengthen and add depth to the existing 
risk management systems. 
The core standard for developing and 
successfully managing an Information 
Security Management System (ISMS)  
is ISO/IEC 27001. Siemens Energy is certified as compliant 
with this standard, which is the basic 
foundation for all of the more targeted 
and specialised forms of cybersecurity. 
The lead standard for cybersecurity in CNI 
is the ISO/IEC 62443 family of certifications. 
These standards have very deep roots, 
with the first steps in creating a truly 
effective, always evolving set of standards 
beginning in around 2002, before the 
International Standards Organisation  
(ISO) and International Electrotechnical 
Commission (IEC) merged to form a single, 
global body. 
The 62443 family of standards is defined 
by ISO/IEC as “horizontal”, which means 
this must form the foundation for any 
cybersecurity approach used by major 
bodies in CNI and related industries.  
All systems, techniques, methods and 
applications must be based on the 62443 
approach and be compatible with them. 
Technical requirements are generally 
assessed as being compatible with  
four different levels of potential hazards  
(see graphic below).
As we shall see, the Defense-in-depth 
concept is highly relevant to this approach. 
Enterprises that achieve the highest levels 
of certification will be able to cope with  
all these challenges, and that is certainly 
the case for Siemens Energy.
IEC 624433
4 LevelLevelLevelLevel
21
Accidental misuseIntentional misuse but with few 
resou rces and low levels of ski llIntentional misuse wit h highly sophis ticat ed 
resour ces and high mo tivation 
Intentional misuse with sophi sticated 
resou rces and moderate motivat ion
7
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000Siemens Energy certifications  
As part of the development process for the extended scope of Omnivise T3000,  
Siemens Energy has successfully gained certification in two parts of the ISO/IEC 62443 
family: 62443-4-1 and 62443-3-3. These focus on the two most important aspects  
of this ground-breaking cybersecurity approach. 
62443-4-1
drives secure development within all industrial 
automation products and systems. It defines a 
form of secure product lifecycle that ensures,  
not simply adequate security quality standards 
from the earliest stages of development but  
also ensures all upgrades, enhancements  
and developments over extended time periods 
reflect latest insights on emerging threats.  
This keeps the product and solution platform  
at best practice level from conception to  
retirement, with lowest possible operational risk.
62443-3-3
applies specifically to industrial control 
systems, with a strong focus on continuous 
assessment, testing and rapid improvement as 
new threat vectors are identified and analysed. 
This sees cybersecurity as a continuous cycle  
of actions, with every update tested for viability 
against known and emerging threats, leading 
to further changes as part of a non-stop  
evolutionary development process that 
becomes a fundamental part of development 
and operations. 
Siemens Energy sought and achieved certification to the highest level in both of these 
standards, seeing this as a basic necessity for a control solution that is destined to have 
a major influence on the security and efficiency of CNI across the world. Meeting these 
standards is essential but it is only the start of our cybersecurity approach. In the next 
section of this paper, we will see how compliance and standards fit into the wider 
context of a proven and successful cyber-strategy.62443-4-1
62443-3-3
Cybersecurity strategy  
and methods
Siemens Energy strategy
Cybersecurity solutions do not exist in  
a vacuum: They depend on every aspect  
of the business, its culture, working  
practices, core processes and, above all, 
on the commitment and attitudes of its 
people. Siemens Energy builds security 
awareness and responses into everything 
it does, from selection and training  
of individual employees to structure of 
processes, right through to product 
design, which we will touch on later in this 
chapter. Building on its Siemens group 
heritage, Siemens Energy now has around 
160 years’ experience in designing secure 
industrial systems, and this know-how  
is key to the ways in which we work  
with clients to co-design and implement 
effective cybersecurity solutions. 
Our approach is based on engineering 
problems out of our solutions at  
design and development stage, before 
implementing a coordinated lifecycle 
strategy focused on Product & Solution 
Security (PSS) and Defense-in-depth.  
As a leading manufacturer and industrial 
player, Siemens Energy has one major 
advantage over cybersecurity specialists 
with IT-only heritage. 
 • A major systems overhaul can be  
disruptive and costly, not only in  
overheads (investment in new systems, 
consultancy time …) but in lost  
production. The same concerns are  
also true when it comes to key software 
patches. It is not always clear how 
effective these will be in the OT  
environment, nor what unexpected 
problems might arise. At least until 
recently, some major companies simply 
did not implement these upgrades  
due to lack of confidence. 
• The role of digitization is not always 
understood. Operations leadership  
can quantify the improvements in 
efficiency, together with reductions  
in energy costs and wastage.  
The changed risk profile is much  
harder to comprehend. 
•  Lifecycle implications may also be 
underestimated (as noted in ISO/IEC 
62443-1-4), together with the different 
approach that may be needed  
now to keep production platforms  
(which are subject to upgrade, perhaps  
on an annual basis) at best practice  
security level. 
As owners of production assets increasingly 
move towards deeper partnership models 
(in some sectors even leading to asset 
lease, rather than ownership), so it 
becomes even more important for them  
to understand the cybersecurity implications 
of every decision, every partnership, and 
every move to the use of cloud-based 
digital native systems. 
8
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T30008We know how serious the potential 
problems can be in the industrial setting 
and are also very clear about the reasons 
why some industrial machine operators 
are reluctant to take the necessary steps 
to protect their OT assets.
9
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000Although Siemens Energy is a confident 
and innovative user of digital techniques, 
we are rooted in the world of OT and 
industrial production. Our approach to 
digitization therefore begins in the OT 
landscape and focuses on securing assets 
end-to-end throughout their lifecycle.  
We have defined 62443 standard-assured 
blueprints, which provide templates for 
use by engineers at design, development, 
test, planning, review, upgrade and all 
forms of operational levels. 
This approach ensures that cybersecurity 
requirements are always top of mind  
for all those participating in the entire 
product value chain, no matter who they 
work for and what their responsibilities. 
This is an engineering response to this 
essential requirement. It is the key to 
ensuring that Siemens Energy solutions 
meet and exceed security expectations  
in every way. 
Product &  
Solution Security
Security by Design is not only about using 
secure practices but also covers processes 
related to engineering and installation, 
together with security of the supply chain 
and external components connected  
to the DCS, including service providers  
and asset owners. Modern DCS solutions must be 
engineered to be Secure by Design.  
This is the concept that states systems 
should be built from the ground up  
with security in mind, following secure 
development, procedures and policies  
in line with best practices, aiming to 
develop a system that is inherently more 
capable of withstanding cybersecurity 
threats. Siemens Energy DCS solutions have secure 
networking protocols, are able to track 
assets, and have effective controls over 
assets that are both physical and virtual, 
on-site and remotely located.
Siemens Energy has its own internal 
processes for developing its control system 
Omnivise T3000 in a secure way, with  
an entire department responsible for 
driving and securing digitalisation by 
holistically protecting Siemens Energy’s 
information security (IS), OT security  
and the security of products and solutions. 
Processes are always focused on five stages 
of cybersecurity awareness:
Stage   1 Working within strong and 
constantly tested, reviewed and updated 
security policies, ensuring that all products 
and solutions are designed to the currently 
enforced, most recent updates of  
applicable standards and regulations. 
Stage   2 Uncompromising attitude to 
training, so that every individual engineer  
involved in design and development  
has accreditation, with effective training 
and supervision.  
Stage   3 Automation where applicable, 
using proven systems to carry out core 
routines to ensure that human error can 
be eliminated. 
Stage   4 Security monitoring is used 
continuously, ensuring the correct  
procedures are followed and that  
they are still secure and valid.
Stage   5 Constant reviews are carried  
out throughout the entire development 
activity, testing each protocol and  
procedure to identify either persistent  
or new and emerging weaknesses.
10
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000The goal is to ensure that problems are 
engineered out in the early stages, making 
vulnerabilities as rare as possible. Building 
on these core principles, we incorporate 
all Siemens Energy cybersecurity knowledge 
and expertise in our integrated Product & 
Solution Strategy, which defines how we 
approach and manage cyber  security issues 
at the deepest level across our activities. 
The key factors in this strategy can be 
defined as:
Security as competitive advantage. 
Effective cybersecurity is a core requirement 
today, not a “box-ticking exercise”, because 
we know that outstanding cybersecurity 
assurance and performance is critically 
important as a differentiator in the 
market. We embed cybersecurity  
requirements into every stage of our 
activities, demonstrating that our solutions 
deliver to the highest regulatory standards, 
and contribute to building trust in the 
performance of our customers. 
Security anchored in the organization.  
Cybersecurity is not an “add-on” to normal 
processes. At Siemens Energy we ensure 
that security is a basic and important part 
of every process and activity. The PSS 
approach is embedded into business 
strategies and planning, and is an integral 
part of implementation programmes. Performance monitoring and continuous 
improvement targeted on PSS is a part of 
every individual’s assessment and is now 
at the heart of all risk assessments and risk 
management activities.
Contribute to improved global  
standards.  
Siemens Energy makes an active  
contribution to testing and enhancing 
global standards. As an industry leader,  
we have a special contribution to make  
in terms of insight and know-how. 
Siemens Energy is also seen as a trusted 
partner, delivering advice seen as  
objective, honest and useful. 
Improve and simplify processes  
continuously.   
The best way to ensure that cybersecurity 
is engineered into every aspect of product 
design and development is to keep 
processes intuitive, simple and easy to 
use. That is a key concern of our PSS 
approach. Cybersecurity components are 
not supposed to be obstacles but useful 
tools, that are well-designed and highly 
intuitive in operation. We enhance and 
improve security processes constantly  
to make them simple and unmissable.  
That is the key to sound security  
engineering. The graphic on the next  
page gives a simplified view of PSS.

11Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000
Product & Solution Security (PSS) 
Governance
ProductsSecure
 Secure
Solutions
Secure
Services
• Business processes  
(e.g. Product Engineering  
or Product Lifecycle  
Management) include 
security activities such as 
PSS project classification, 
security threat & risk 
analysis or security testing
• Supply Chain Management 
process includes PSS 
secure supplier and  
component selection
• Secure service operation  
(e.g. field, digital or 
software services)
• Incident and vulnerability 
management
• Risk and opportunity  
management• Defense-in-depth  
protection
• Network security
• Identify and access  
management
• Secure remote access via 
common Remote Service 
Platform (cRSP) 
• Data security and integrity 
protection
• System hardening
• Malicious code prevention
• Security logging and  
monitoring
• Intrusion and anomaly  
detection
• Backup and disaster  
recovery
• Physical security• Roles, responsibilities  
and job-profiles
• Qualification and training
• ProductCERT
• Expert network
• Regulation and  
standardization activities
• Collaboration with  
authorities and industry 
bodies
• Consulting
• CommunicationProcesses Technology People & communityComprehensive governance framework based  
on long-term expertise, domain know-how  
and international standards.
12
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000This exemplifies the holistic and integrated 
nature of the strategy. It covers products, 
solutions and services, ensuring that every 
component is covered with equal depth 
and detail. 
• It begins with governance, and includes 
strategic level initiatives (like PSS) and 
executive leadership, with specialist 
officers, backed by security tools and 
databases. 
• It covers our core processes, from 
Product Lifecycle Management (PLM)  
at one end through to managing risk 
and dealing with incidents. In both 
highly proactive and effectively reactive 
ways, our processes are engineered  
for security. 
• It covers our technologies, from design 
to data, access management to physical 
security. Every part of the technology 
environment is constantly evaluated, 
compared with new options, tested and 
subject to enhancement or replacement 
as required. 
• It covers our people, above all, because 
we recognise that the human factor  
is critically important but sometimes 
underestimated as part of the overall 
security mix. From initial selection  
at recruitment stage to onboarding, 
personal development certification, 
oversight, and development, we make 
cybersecurity the responsibility  
of everyone at all times, across the 
entire community. 
Our PSS approach is designed to ensure 
that security awareness of management  
is always present at every level in every 
activity. It is supplemented by the critically 
important security vision known as.Defense-in-depth
These not only have the potential to 
defeat an attack but also slow down the 
progress of such attacks, while providing 
rapid warning to security professionals, 
giving them notice of the attack and 
enabling counter-measures to be 
launched. The more layers of security 
technologies, procedures and solutions  
in place the bigger the “cost of an attack” 
is to a threat actor trying to access the 
DCS. This plays a key role in discouraging 
and reducing the frequency of such 
attacks.
In an OT environment these layers could 
include patch management, malware 
protection, access controls, secure  
architecture, policies and training.  
These additional layers of security reduce 
the size of the attack surface, making it 
much less likely that an attacker will break 
through all the layers. Other steps that  
can be taken for an effective DiD strategy 
include:
• Hardening DCS components to limit 
their exposure to external systems  
and networks. 
• Having adequate DCS access controls  
to help protect operations. Physical and 
logical access controls help ensure only 
those authorized and authenticated  
 can access the DCS to make control 
operations and create changes.
• Regular cybersecurity training for DCS 
staff provides personnel with the 
knowledge to act in a secure way  
and identify unsecure activities related 
to the DCS.Defense-in-depth (DiD) is a strategy for 
comprehensive protection of complex 
systems by engineering layers of 
defences into a system to ensure you are 
never dependent on any single means of 
defence. The concept means that every 
attack, from external or even internal 
actors, encounters multiple obstacles. 
13
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000
In purely technology terms, the accepted formula for effective DiD is to provide  
four self-sufficient but interconnected solution layers focused on:
 Perimeter defence
Presenting a hardened external face to the world, 
ensuring that all attempts to pass through the 
perimeter are properly evaluated, so that only 
authorised access is permitted.  Host protection
Making sure that the entire infrastructure  
environment, whether on-premise or cloud-based,  
is secure and resistant to viruses and other forms 
of infiltration via potential “weak points”. 
  Operating systems  
and applications
Form potentially the most complex area of  
vulnerability, with near continuous interaction 
required between large numbers of users, some 
from outside the organization. Here access  
protocols will be enforced strictly and all  
possibleconcerns flagged at once, with access 
immediately denied.  Data protection
Covers both data at rest (stored in secure sites, 
with clearly defined and controlled access) and 
data in transit (where the integrity of each specific 
network connection and process will be managed 
individually on a no-trust basis). 
Once this technology focus is combined with employee reviews, administrative 
processes to eliminate errors (as far as humanly possible) and rational security policies, 
the result should be a secure and well-managed information environment. This approach 
does not eliminate threats, but it does at least make sure that “everyday” safeguarding 
issues will be managed successfully. 
The Omnivise approach
The new energy  
structures
We stated at the beginning of this paper 
that a radical change in the development 
of energy generation and distribution is 
one key factor in making cybersecurity for 
CNI a higher priority than ever. The world 
is moving away from the long-established 
model of very large, central power  
generation systems to a more distributed 
landscape, with many different kinds of 
energy source, an increasing proportion  
of them renewable. Not only is this a 
much more complex CNI environment 
than in the past, it is also potentially  
more vulnerable. 
The reality of energy generation and 
distribution today is that the modern 
equivalent of major coal-fired power 
plants is now likely to be huge windfarms 
some distance out to sea. These are  
efficient and reliable but also vulnerable 
to physical and virtual compromise, with 
the need for monitoring, surveillance and 
rapid response, all through connections 
that cover a great deal of distance and 
require Internet and cloud enablement.  
In the distribution grids, the move away 
from fossil fuels to electric vehicles, and from gas heating to electric heat 
pumps adds a greater burden on the grids,  
themselves. 
We are now seeing new developments, 
such as bi-directional grids, the use of EV 
batteries as temporary storage for power 
in the grid, different commercial bodies 
and complex new methods for system 
design and maintenance. Yet one factor 
has not changed and will never change: 
the need for availability, power continuity, 
meeting demand, no matter what.  
The role of system management and 
control is more sensitive than ever, and 
cybersecurity is a key factor in making  
a control system fit for purpose. 
Omnivise T3000 has been specifically 
designed to provide effective,  
flexible security across all the diverse  
power generation assets in this  
picture. It provides an integrated,  
standards-compliant IS Management 
System to support our complex energy 
landscape deliver energy continuity 
combined with environmental and cost 
benefits.
The energy landscapeof the future will be 
complex, mixed and distributed.
14
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T300014
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000
15Infrastructure designed 
for security
Omnivise T3000 has been designed, 
structured and engineered for maximum 
security at all levels. Key design features 
include:
Layer architecture.  
Using the Defense-in-depth approach, 
T3000 is built in a series of separate 
layers, each one having its own security 
safeguards, ensuring that compromise  
in one layer does not undermine the 
integrity of the whole solution.  
The main layers in the architecture 
comprise:
• External access layer , which is  
where communication is most open 
and interfacing with internet and 
intranet-based assets and where  
personnel is enabled. 
• Demilitarized zone (DMZ) , which 
protects the rest of the solution and  
the wider environment from external 
access. The DMZ is placed between  
the Internet access layer and the rest  
of the environment, enabling all access 
requests to be scrutinised and carefully 
managed, with threats spotted and 
stopped at this stage.  Note there may be more than one DMZ 
in the structure, depending on access 
requirements. The key principle is that 
there will ALWAYS be a DMZ between 
any external access and the rest of  
the system. 
• Application layer , which hosts the 
T3000 appliction software needed  
to manage the production plants and 
systems. This also includes the main 
cybersecurity functions and features, 
such as the security server, application 
whitelisting and Security Information 
and Event Management (SIEM). 
• Automation layer , this is where tools 
and capabilities that enable operation 
of production assets and automated 
functions of every kind are situated, 
and also where system intelligence  
is housed. This is an area of maximum 
security, because it is able to carry  
out specific actions with no human 
intervention. 
To ensure further defence against security 
threats, each layer is air-gapped from  
the others, further reducing the potential 
for penetration.
Remote service
Omnivise T3000IT network officeExternal layer  
(Internet/Intranet) 
DMZ
Application layer
Automation layer
1
2
3
4
Omnivise T3000 security zone architecture based on protection requirements
Secure communication that safeguards access to the DCSAdvanced  
Service CentercRSP portal  
Customer data 
and access control
VPN  
IPsec VPN/TLS VPNcRSP  
Access Server
16Hardening.  Individual components are 
given their own security strengthening 
protocols as defined and advised by the 
Center for Internet Security (CIS). Using 
these industry-standard benchmarks,  
we can ensure that components can 
withstand attacks even if system-level 
safeguard fail. Hardening involves, among 
other things, removing unnecessary 
software, constant changes to passwords 
and cutting out unnecessary services.
Communication management.  Where 
communication is required between layers 
and components, this is secured via such 
methods as spatial separation, firewalls 
and point to point tunnels.
Network structure.  To protect the 
customer’s network as well as the Siemens 
Energy environment against reciprocal 
problems and attacks, we have secured 
the common cRSP server in a so-called 
DMZ which is secured on both sides  
by firewalls. The reverse proxy server 
establishes the connection to the  
customer’s system and mirrors  
the incoming communication to  
Siemens Energy. This prevents a connection from being  
set up between the Siemens Energy  
environment and the customer network 
via un authorized protocols, since the 
mirroring takes place only for predefined 
protocols. This architecture prevents,  
for example: 
• Unauthorized access from one network 
to the other 
• Access from a third network  
(by hackers, for example) 
• Fraudulent use of secret passwords  
or other access data 
• Transmission of viruses or other  
harmful programs from one network  
to the other
The graphic below shows how  
communication and access methods  
are designed to provide additional  
protection. 
Custome r Internet DMZ Siemens EnergyRemote user support
Monitoring of system parametersCybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000
17
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000Virtual Private Network (VPN)  
via broadband connection.  
We generally recommend using a secure 
broadband connection over the Internet. 
This offers maximum level of security, 
high data transfer rates, high availability, 
and access to all Siemens Energy Remote 
Services. The cRSP is relying on two types 
of VPN technologies: IPsec VPN and TLS 
VPN.
Security measures for IPsec.  Siemens 
Energy uses the established standard IP 
security (IPsec) with preshared secrets  
for encrypted and authenticated data 
transmission. Preshared secrets consist of 
an arbitrary string of minimum 12 random 
characters. 
Security measures for TLS-VPN.  
The Transport Layer Security (TLS)  
protocol can be used as an alternative  
for hardware-based VPN endpoints (IPsec). 
Before a connection is set up, the device 
must be registered with a one-time  
password (OTP). The TLS connection  
to the VPN server can be established  
only if the server certificate was signed by 
an internal Siemens Energy Certification 
Authority (CA). This ensures that only this 
specific device can communicate with the 
cRSP servers. An additional harware-based 
hash ensures that no unauthorized  
copy software can set up a connection  
to the cRSP server.
Security measures in the customer 
network . The main security features 
depend on the selection and configuration 
of the chosen cRSP access router at the 
customer’s end. In principle, a distinction 
is made between Customer Owned Access 
(COA) and Siemens Energy Owned Access. 
In addition, SSL-VPN client is available  
for fixed and mobile connections. These 
connectivity options, including the  
ports to be opened in the firewall for  
an operational remote connection,  
are illustrated and explained in detail  
in the appendix. 
Secured cRSP server.  Siemens Energy 
uses Linux servers exclusively for our cRSP 
access servers. These are designed for 
stability, while frequent updates make 
sure that actively developed distributions 
remain secure. Secure remote support.  Providing  
effective support is an essential part of the 
T3000 service, so all aspects of this service 
are managed via the Siemens Energy 
common cRSP. This establishes VPN 
tunnels to ensure that no external  
access to communication is possible,  
and two factor authentication is used  
to further ensure that support services 
cannot be a point of vulnerability. 
In addition to the core functionality of  
the T3000 solution itself, Siemens Energy 
customers can also access a growing range 
of support services. These include:
• Cybersecurity hotline (for reporting 
issues and requesting intervention).
• Patch Management support, ensuring 
that every aspect of the solution  
is automatically kept at best practice 
level.
• cSOC, providing permanent shared 
security services, with specialist  
consultants monitoring performance  
on a 24/7 basis.
• Consultancy design services,  
in which Siemens Energy experts can 
be deployed to identify vulnerabilities 
in an existing system and provide input 
to design enhancements. 
Finally, we need to understand the market 
reality, which is that all customer systems 
are likely to be hybrid, which include 
technologies provided by a range of 
suppliers, including Siemens Energy.  
In a T3000 DCS solution, therefore, we 
need to consider the integrity of what  
is normally known as the “System Under 
Consideration” (SUC), which comprises  
the total technology landscape relating  
to the DCS, including standalone controls 
and monitoring systems across the entire 
landscape.
Siemens Energy certifies its own  
technologies meticulously and is able  
to evaluate other systems, as well.  
This means that we can carry out  
cybersecurity monitoring across the 
complete environment, identifying  
threats and giving early warning  
of emerging issues. This ensures that  
operators have a clear and transparent 
view of threats across their operational 
landscape, and can move effectively  
to protect themselves. 
18
Cybersecurity Whitepaper – Omnivise T3000New vision for  
a new reality
Omnivise T3000 has been designed with 
the emerging energy landscape in mind.  
It is not an attempt to adapt old technology 
to a new reality: it is secured for a complex, 
changing and highly fragmented world. 
Let’s briefly summarise the issues once 
more.
Complexity.  Power generation is moving 
from centralised fossil-fuel driven plants  
to a network of smaller power plants  
that use everything from wind, solar,  
tide, hydro, geo-thermal, biomass,  
waste, nuclear (including potentially 
small-scale local plants). This diverse set 
‘of resources must be harnessed and 
united into a steady, reliable, energy  
flow for distribution grids that may need 
to provide double today’s capacity in the 
next two decades. 
Threats.  This major strategic change has 
the unwanted consequence of making 
threats more persistent, harder to track 
and likely to cause disruption to entire 
energy systems due to weakness at just 
one or two specific points. In a distributed energy environment 
managing cyber  security is certain to be a 
challenge. The world needs solutions that 
are specifically designed to meet that 
challenge. 
Solutions.  Omnivise T3000 builds on a 
long heritage of successful operation in 
large-scale power generation plants, with 
roots that go back to the earliest Siemens 
I&C solutions, more than 50 years ago.  
The new iteration of T3000 has been 
redesigned and re-engineered to  
incor porate the capability needed to 
manage an entire network of individual 
power generation solutions, geographically 
dispersed and based on multiple different 
technologies. 
Using a combination of secure connectivity, 
distributed intelligence and an engineering 
approach that has security at its heart, we 
can for the first time make the emerging 
distributed energy market work more 
effectively and more securely than all 
those long-established energy systems, 
which are now being made obsolete. 
The Siemens Energy vision 
Let’s end with the same thought that started this paper:  
the environment. Changes from large central generators  
to multiple distributed, largely renewable energy sources are  
not happening for frivolous reasons. They are happening because climate change  
is real (the evidence is now overwhelming and the scientific consensus almost 100%) 
and the dangers this presents to human society are incontestable. We have to manage 
the move to clean energy fast. It took about 200 years for society to move from  
a world of wind powered ships, horse-drawn carts and wood fires for cooking and 
heating to the hyper-industrialised society of the 20th Century, with its absolute 
dependence on fossil fuel sources for everything, from light to heat, transport to 
manufacturing and beyond. To keep climate change within just about manageable 
limits, we have to manage an equally disruptive transition in about 25 years 
maximum. What we can see is that the growth in renewable energy sources is being 
managed faster than expected, keeping to this tight schedule quite successfully.  
The issues now lie elsewhere: in management and controls. To coordinate, collate, 
deliver and quantify the energy society needs is a huge and challenging task.  
Without effective, strategic level management systems, the clean energy revolution 
cannot happen. Omnivise T3000 has been designed to carry out exactly this task, safely.

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Gas Services  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy. Inc  
Gas Services  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.