Cybersecurity for
offshore wind
Whitepaper
siemens-energy.com/offshore-wind-controls
 3  Overview
 4  T he cybersecurity challenge for wind
 5  The secure-by-design opportunity
 6  The secure-by-design approach
 8  Securing integrated wind systems
 9  Setting the new standard for unified cybersecurity
11 Conclusion
Cybersecurity for offshore wind | Whitepaper
2
Overview
Wind power continues to rapidly grow as governments and 
consumers demand more clean energy. As this efficient, 
cost-effective renewable power source becomes an 
everlarger share of power production, wind farm 
developers, owners, and operators need to ensure that 
these facilities provide reliable energy delivery throughout 
their life cycle. This responsibility calls for cybersecurity 
strategies adapted to the technical and physical realities 
intrinsic to wind farms, their often remote, distributed 
nature, and the com  plexity of the digital systems and 
subsystems that must work together to manage turbines 
individually, as a wind farm and as a growing contributor  
to regional and national electricity supplies. 
Wind power requires digital management. Variable inputs 
from wind and wave conditions require active management 
to maximize power production and synchronize outputs 
with regional electric grids. The considerable cost of site 
visits for maintenance make remote management and 
diagnostic tools essential for minimizing operating costs. 
Typical wind farms include digital management systems for 
orienting turbines, monitoring environmental conditions, 
managing power flows, and several other critical 
workflows. These systems require cyber defenses both 
individually and as an integrated system.
Growth in wind power comes with growing risks. As a 
larger share of power production, wind becomes a more 
attractive target for cyber attacks. Critical infrastructure 
operators in the energy sector face frequent, sophisticated attacks from criminal organizations and geopolitical rivals 
seeking to extract profit or sow seeds for future disruption 
of rival economies. Building more wind power multiplies 
the number of networks and devices that could provide 
attack pathways if left undefended or unstable interactions 
if improperly configured. Expanding the number of 
employees and contractors working on wind likewise 
increases the chance of a cyber incident from a disaffected 
employee or a failure to follow correct protocols. 
Cyber incidents that disrupt wind farms pose clear financial 
risks. Immediate risks include lost production, potential 
power outages, incident recovery costs, and potential 
replacement costs in the event of physical damage. Less 
obvious but also at stake are reputational risks, including 
lost investor confidence, legal action, increased regu latory 
scrutiny, and future compliance costs. 
Risks that could be considered negligible when wind  
power was a small portion of overall energy production  
can no longer be ignored. Wind farm developers, owners, 
and operators share an interest in cybersecurity risk 
management strategies that account for the entire life cycle 
of these assets. To ensure secure reliable renewable power 
delivery, wind farms should be built and operated with a 
secure-by-design approach, with systems-level integration  
in mind, and with the understanding that the threat 
environ ment will continue to evolve long after construction 
is complete. 
Cybersecurity for offshore wind | Whitepaper
 3
The cybersecurity challenge for wind
The challenge for wind power is twofold: wind farms must 
comply with strict cybersecurity regulations and must, in 
practice, provide adequate defenses to a complex set of 
systems in a harsh, remote, real-world environment.
Wind farms face tough cybersecurity standards. This is,  
in part, a reflection of wind power’s economic success, now 
providing a non-negligible portion of power to regional and 
national economies. Legislators correctly discern that dis-
ruptions to wind power production could lead to high-
consequence power outages and include wind as part of 
Critical National Infrastructure (CNI). Standards such as 
the Network and Information Security (NIS) Directive, NIS 
2022 / 2555, North American Electric Reliability Corporation 
Critical Infrastructure Protection (NERC CIP), KRITIS in 
Germany, and VGB PowerTech standards apply to wind 
power. The EU has also implemented cybersecurity 
measures and surveillance standards for offshore wind 
as part of critical infrastructure, along with the new EU 
Maritime Security Strategy (EUMSS) and Action Plan.
Achieving that objective requires compliance – but also 
requires an approach that balances economic efficiency 
with risk. In practice, companies may choose to invest in 
strategies that meet and exceed regulatory requirements  
to reduce risk and gain operating efficiencies. Wind farms differ from other forms of power production 
in ways that make cybersecurity both more important  
and more challenging. Conventional power plants are 
 centralized and possible to secure physically; wind farms 
occupy physical footprint of the size of large villages, and 
may be located up to 150 kms offshore. Operators at convent-
ional plants control inputs; wind power must respond to 
environ mental conditions. Conventional power plants have 
staff on site on a daily basis; bringing staff to offshore wind 
facilities is costly. Solving these challenges calls for a complex 
set of subsystems working together as a unified whole. 
Current process-based approaches often used in wind 
infrastructure require that each primary technology supply 
its own separate control system. In this model, suppliers 
shoulder the responsibility for delivering on performance 
guarantees and complying with national and regional 
cybersecurity standards. This approach is no longer fit for 
purpose. Faced with a dynamic threat environment, 
static defenses degrade rapidly and will leave assets 
vulnerable until patched. Subsystem defenses 
designed without interoperability leave blind 
spots for analysts, or require retrofits. To 
minimize cyber risks and operating 
costs, operators must take a holistic 
and iterative approach that 
considers the facility as a 
system of systems and 
plans for ongoing 
upkeep of cyber 
defenses. 
These regulatory regimes share a core objective:  
to ensure the integrity, security and longevity of 
offshore wind, along with other CNI assets. 
Cybersecurity for offshore wind | Whitepaper
4
The secure-by-design opportunity
Cybersecurity is a risk management journey with compliance 
milestones. Securing any piece of energy infrastructure will 
require ongoing attention and effort to keep ahead of 
evolving threats, maintain subsystems that degrade at 
different rates, and meet regional compliance requirements.
A secure-by-design approach to developing and operating 
wind farms is more effective and less expensive . Instead of 
treating cybersecurity as an afterthought, wind power 
developers, owners, and operators work together to ensure 
that cybersecurity is considered a design factor from its 
earliest design to its ongoing operation. A secure-by-design 
approach ensures that the site architecture will enable 
integrated, unified defenses, that will provide for 
maintenance and upgrades like software patches, 
updates, and cybersecurity monitoring. 
Design choices affect the operating costs associated with 
cybersecurity. For example, standardizing equipment and 
configurations across the wind farm simplifies cybersecurity 
monitoring. Understanding which assets will need differing 
levels of monitoring can make networks easier to secure 
appropriately. Planning for ongoing monitoring of unified 
data streams can enable outsourcing for cybersecurity 
monitoring services.At each phase in the life cycle, it should be clear who bears 
responsibility for cybersecurity. Assigning responsibility for 
securing subcomponents without assigning responsibility 
for securing the whole system will lead to fragmentation, 
blind spots, incompatibility, vulnerabilities, and future 
expense. The designated person who will bear 
responsibility for integrated, site-wide cyber defenses 
should be known and involved in design decisions from the 
earliest phases of design. Likewise, there should be a clear 
chain of command for cyber defenses once the site is 
operational. 
Secure-by-design approaches set wind farms up for success, 
facilitating the clear accountability, site architecture, 
continuous monitoring, evaluation, and updates to 
cybersecurity that defenses will need to remain effective 
and compliant. 
“Security-by-design” is a philosophy that prioritizes 
cybersecurity in the early stages of a new build 
 project’s lifecycle and encourages owners and 
 providers to think, buy and design cybersecurity –  
as part of the functionality. 
Cybersecurity for offshore wind | Whitepaper
 5
The secure-by-design  
approach
Siemens Energy partners with wind farm developers, owners, and operators  
to guide the cybersecurity journey. As an original equipment manufacturer, 
Siemens Energy has a deep understanding of the engineering requirements 
for offshore wind, as well as the regional regulatory environments in the 
EU and around the world . Siemens Energy has invested in developing 
purpose-built cybersecurity solutions and services for operational 
technologies (OT), applying secure-by-design principles to manage risk, 
streamline compliance, and mature cybersecurity for energy infrastructure.
Siemens Energy’s combination of global presence, engineering know-   
how, and cybersecurity experience  means that we are able to guide 
clients to affordable, effective solutions  for their site’s specific needs. 
We have the technical capacity to serve as the  integrator of the many 
complex subsystems  needed to securely operate a wind farm. Siemens 
Energy follows a certified approach to secure-by-design and lifecycle 
management pre-process, like ISO 27001 and IEC 62443-4-1. We offer a 
cyber- informed engineering (CIE) focus on reducing risk. 
Just as important as technical competence, we understand that the 
profit engine of a wind farm depends on maximizing uptime . We 
understand how to deploy and update cybersecurity systems with 
minimal disruption to power production . We build cybersecurity to 
protect assets against low-probability, high-consequence cyber 
incidents, and have invested in technologies designed to enable 
operators to quickly contain and recover from cyber incidents that 
do occur. For wind farms, in particular, the ability to remotely and 
quickly determine which equipment has and has not been affected 
by a cyber incident can be a major factor in the cost of recovery 
after a cyber incident.
Cybersecurity for offshore wind | Whitepaper
6
Evergreen security approach: 
Cybersecurity at the core, from 
commissioning to end-of-lifeAI-driven automation: 
Siemens Energy’s proprietary 
machine-learning engine assists 
in analyzing huge data volumes 
with machine-like speedBenefits of Siemens Energy’s offshore security Solution
Regulatory expertise: 
Siemens Energy has long experience 
with OT cybersecurity regulations in 
markets around the globe
Engineering excellence: 
Siemens Energy brings a long 
heritage as an original equipment 
manufacturer to our OT cyber -
security approachManufacturer-agnostic: 
Siemens Energy can integrate 
equipment across manufacturers and 
machine languages to create a unified, 
holistic cybersecurity environment
Cybersecurity for offshore wind | Whitepaper
 7
Securing integrated wind systems
Omnivise T3000 enables secure integration and automation 
for the many complex subsystems that comprise a wind 
farm. Siemens Energy’s Omnivise T3000 is a comprehensive 
solution that manages the control and automation 
functionalities across various parts of an offshore wind 
farm. It can manage control functionalities, substation 
automation functionalities, and SCADA functionalities. As  
a reliable partner, we’re supporting energy producers 
worldwide in advancing the energy revolution in almost 
4,000 projects worldwide.
Siemens Energy and Omnivise T3000 help standardize 
operations. Siemens Energy has selected strategic partners 
and suppliers that meet cybersecurity standards. Omnivise 
T3000 includes powerful vulnerability management, 
architecture mapping, and network intrusion detection 
powered by Tenable. We use systems like Radius, Diameter,  
or TACACS+ to manage authentication, authorization, and 
accounting solutions. Together, these capabilities help 
defenders determine not just whether systems are open to 
attack but also whether trusted insiders or known devices 
have been hijacked.
Omnivise T3000 enables operators to easily remain in 
compliance with standards like IEC 62443 while implementing 
an architecture that meets the needs of large-scale wind 
power. Typical wind power worksites call for three main 
layers: operation, engineering, and cybersecurity. Omnivise 
T3000 provides security appropriate to the assets in each 
network zone. It can provide Virtual LAN (VLAN) connections 
that meet the network segregation requirements. Siemens Energy has developed integration and 
serviceability concepts for each piece of equipment, 
encompassing life cycle management and cybersecurity 
integration. This strategy allows Siemens Energy not only to 
integrate such equipment into projects but also to provide 
servicing for assets during and beyond the warranty period. 
Siemens Energy’s 
 standardization 
and existing 
partnerships 
enable wind farm 
developers, 
owners, and 
operators to enjoy 
a smoother 
experience. 
Devices across the 
wind farm 
integrate 
seamlessly. Unified 
Human-Machine 
Interfaces (HMI) 
reduce the need 
for operators to 
learn several interface formats for maintenance. 
Cybersecurity management becomes easier, with more 
comprehensive visibility into monitored systems and 
streamlined patch and vulnerability management.
Omnivise T3000
Control and automation
of oﬀshore wind farms
•Control
•Substation automation
•SCADA
Network intrusion detectionArchitecture mappingVulnerability management
Onshore
substation
Wind FarmOﬀshore
substationsAuthentication, authorization, and accounting 
solutions via Radius, Diameter, or TACACS+Comprehensive 
control &  automation 
 functionality
Advanced embedded  
security  controls
Scalable industrial 
control system  
architecture
Cybersecurity for offshore wind | Whitepaper
8
Setting the new standard for  
unified cybersecurity
Siemens Energy recommends that wind farms incorporate a 
Unified Cyber Monitoring Center (UCMC). Designing with a 
UCMC in mind from the earliest stages helps align many 
decisions about how various hosted functionalities will be 
deployed across the whole of the wind farm. 
Establishing a UCMC ensures that the correct technical 
capabilities – both in terms of equipment and personnel – 
exist in a centralized, systematic way and are available to 
advise and act on the decisions of the person accountable 
for cybersecurity.
Throughout a wind farm’s 25–35-year life span, a UCMC also 
serves as part of a cyber serviceability plan. Cyber serviceability accounts for the fact that over decades of 
operation, a wind farm will almost certainly see new cyber 
threats emerge, new regulations come into effect, and 
current software become obsolete. Adapting and updating 
cybersecurity solutions and software is easier when the 
equipment, software, and personnel are centralized and 
systematically tracked instead of fragmented and scattered 
across the wind farm.
Cybersecurity for offshore wind | Whitepaper
 9
Foundational security excellence 
1. Software updates:  managing patterns for updating 
software. 
2. Patch administration:  handling and implementing 
required software updates and patches to address 
known vulnerabilities.
3. Firewall administration:  managing the function and 
configuration of firewalls to prevent unauthorized 
network access.4. Endpoint security:  managing the security of all   
end -points, such as computers and other devices 
connected to the network.
5. Unified DMZ :  a dedicated DMZ  zone enables access to 
the equipment installed in the wind park from outside.
6. Data diode for data extraction:  using a data diode to 
extract data to the IT environment.
7. Encrypted communication to IEDS :  ensuring secure 
communication to intelligent electronic devices ( IEDS ).
Realtime visibility & context
1. Vulnerability evaluation:   consistently evaluating the 
network and systems for potential weak spots and 
suggesting corrective actions.
2. Network surveillance:   providing constant scrutiny of 
network activities to identify any abnormal behavior or 
traffic patterns.
3. Log administration:   gathering and scrutinizing log data 
from multiple sources for audit, compliance, and 
forensic purposes.4. Access supervision:  handling access control to different 
parts of the network and systems, ensuring that users 
only have the necessary access for their tasks, and two-  
factor authentication is appropriately implemented.
5. Intrusion identification and mitigation:  employing 
IDS / IPS  systems to spot and counter potential cyber 
incidents.
6. Threat identification:  continuously monitoring 
network traffic and system activities to detect potential 
threats or harmful activities.
Preparedness & resilience
1. Disaster recovery strategy:  formulating and  
executing plans for restoring operations in the event  
of a  significant incident or disaster. 2. Incident management:  if a security incident is 
detect  ed, triggering appropriate response actions to 
reduce the impact, which may include isolating  
affected sys  tems or shutting down certain operations.Siemens Energy’s offshore security approach gives wind 
operators the tools to programmatically combat cyber risk
Cybersecurity for offshore wind | Whitepaper
10
Conclusion
Wind farms and offshore wind provide a growing share of 
power to major economies. With that growth comes an 
increased need to responsibly manage the cyber risks 
associated with these large, complex facilities and their 
harsh, remote environments. Because digital devices sit at 
the heart of wind farms and must integrate their many 
subsystems, cyber defenses must be strong and 
comprehensive. 
Current approaches to cybersecurity for offshore wind focus 
on process-based compliance, and insufficiently address the 
risk that vulnerabilities will arise in the integration of 
subsystems and the absence of clear accountability for 
securing the overall wind farm. Companies that take a 
secure-by-design approach and consider the complete life 
cycle of their assets stand to gain a competitive advantage 
by reducing operating costs while improving security and 
performance. Secure-by-design decision-making and strict regulatory 
environments should lead wind farm developers, owners, 
and operators to invest in unified cyber management 
centers as a means to streamline compliance and cyber 
serviceability. 
With its deep knowledge of engineering 
requirements, regional regulatory environments, 
and cybersecurity, Siemens Energy is a valuable 
partner for wind farm developers, owners 
and operators seeking assistance in 
securing wind assets across their life 
cycle. 
Cybersecurity for offshore wind | Whitepaper
 11
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Gas Services
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy Inc.
4400 Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com/offshore-wind-controls
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document
only contains general descriptions and / or performance features, which
may not always specifically reflect those described, or, which may
undergo modification in the course of further development of the
products. The requested performance features are binding only when
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
All product designations, trademarks, or products of Siemens Energy
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.