Cost and emissions reduction through 
optimized generation schedule for hybrid and 
non-hybrid fleetsEnergy Management 
Dispatch 
Optimization
The challenge
Our digital solution
Energy Management Dispatch Optimization is 
a software that manages the utilization of 
generation assets, which can significantly 
improve economic return and profitability .
.Energy markets are becoming increasingly 
complex due to the influx of new generation 
assets like renewables, microgrids and the 
hybridization of traditional CCPPs with storage 
and other energy assets.  All of which makes it 
more difficult for asset operators to quickly 
respond and optimize their generation. 
Solutions that manage the distribution of 
generation are needed to economically optimize 
plant operations.
Figure 1: How Energy Management works
•Customized mathematical solver based 
on asset and forecast models (technical, 
economic, regulatory, and weather)
•Cost optimized generation schedule for 
viewing, exporting or directly controlling 
assets
•Web application: Interactive web 
platform visualizing the generation 
schedule forecastScopeOur powerful software platform helps to optimize 
generation with three core steps:
•First, create a digital twin of the energy system to 
model operation and forecast production
•Second, virtualize the energy market and reserve 
requirements to forecast market prices and 
demand
•Finally, OPTIMIZE! Combine market and 
production forecasts using advanced optimization 
techniques to proactively determine the 
economically optimized generation plan specific 
to your plant
Energy Management -Dispatch Optimization
Benefits
•Automate the dispatch of multiple energy 
assets
•Reduce fuel costs by dispatching your assets 
efficiently
•Reduce CO2emissions by utilizing low carbon 
generation when possible, and optimize burner 
usage when not
•Use digital plant models built by the experts –
Siemens Energy engineers and data scientists
•Use real time plant state information to ensure 
dispatch plans match plant capability
Implementation steps
•Analyze control methods, signal identification, 
equipment & operating parameters
•Define EMS objectives
•Establish connections with customer systems 
and plant
•Ensure sensor data streaming for model training 
•Setup energy system model and objectives for 
the optimization process
•Deploy cloud -based EMS instance with web 
application access
•Customer acceptance testing
•Customer training for system handling and 
typical configuration activities
Figure 2: Energy Management video -overview
•Plan proactively to inform generation and 
bidding strategies, through advanced 
forecasting techniques that deliver optimized 
schedules
•Visualize fuel cost, capability, power demand 
and current position
•Streamline team coordination by bringing 
operational and planning inputs together
•Improve transparency of decision -making 
process using digital dashboards. 
Discover how itworks inthis video (click on
theimage orscan theQRcode) :Watch Energy Management videoIn summary, Energy Management helps you to:
•Optimize your production
•Reduce your emissions
•Maximize your revenueCost Optimization
•Operating Expense
Operational Excellence
•Personnel & Process
•Digitalization
Efficiency
•Base Load Efficiency
•Transient Efficiency

Energy Management -Dispatch Optimization
“By implementing the Dispatch 
Optimizer solution from 
Siemens Energy, we were able 
to reduce fuel costs
significantly and  minimize our 
carbon footprint .”Success story: Hsinta reduced 
fuel cost by 0.33%
The Hsinta power station complex comprises 
a 2.1GW coal -fired plant with 4 units and a 
2.4GW combined -cycle gas plant equipped 
with 5 units. 
Taiwan Power Company is in the process of  
moving to independent management of its 
power generation and grid operations from 
2027 on. They partnered with Siemens 
Energy to prepare for the increased 
competition arising from market 
deregulationBenefits
•Considers forecasts on electricity demand, 
weather, and price expectations to develop short -
to long -term cost -optimized generation schedules.
•Supports the fulfillment of supply obligations with 
minimal use of resources through the best possible 
use of the plants.
•Provides decision support, indulging for fuel 
contracts, electricity contracts, CO2 planning and 
investment calculations for new or changed 
plants.
Siemens Energy implemented Dispatch 
Optimizer, a software -based solution for 
creating revenue optimized production plans 
to dispatch plants efficiently.
The solution connects market -driven trading, 
including spot markets, with the production 
potential of the generation units. 
It produces short, medium and long -term 
generation schedules and provides 
recommendations for cost and revenue -
optimized generation.
Figure 4: Total Value Impact after 5 years (in thousands $)Mr. Huang, Chin -Chen 
Plant Manager of Hsinta Natural Gas Power Plant 
Taiwan Power Company•Fuel savings of 0.514%
•Cost savings of about $12,000 / day
•Yearly saving potential of about $4 Million / 
year 
Implementation of the Solution
Figure 3: Hsinta power station, in Kaohsiung, is Taiwan‘s 2nd largest coal -
fired power plant. 
The Result
* It is a simulation of possible benefits based on specific project details that 
can varyTotalvalue impact for 5 years*
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Published by and copyright © 2024
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Gas Services
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany 
For more information, please visit our website:
Omnivise Performance Solutions (siemens -energy.com)
For the U.S. published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Gas Services
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826, USA