Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a  trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Dammam , Mar 12, 2025  
Siemens Energy secures  USD 1.6 billion  project  to advance 
Saudi Arabia’s energy transition with new power plants  
 
 
Siemens Energy has been  awarded a USD 1.6 billion project , with Harbin Electric International as the EPC 
contractor,  to provide  key technologies  for the Rumah  2 and Nairyah 2 gas-fired power plants in Saudi  
Arabia.  Located in the western and central regions,  the plants  will add  3.6 gigawatts of power  to the 
national grid – enough to supply  around 1.5 million homes . The project includes long -term maintenance 
agreement s to support the plants’ operational reliability  over the next 25 years.   
 
Core  components for the power plants  will be manufactured at the Siemens Energy Dammam Hub, which is 
currently expanding to increase local production capacity and support Saudi Arabia’s energy sector.  
 
Rumah 2 and Nairyah 2 will rank among  the world’s largest combined -cycle power plants . They will replace 
aging oil -fired stations, reducing  CO 2 emissions by up to 60% compared to traditional oil -based power 
generation . Additionally, the plants are being designed to be compatible with advanced CO 2 capture and 
storage technologies , supporting Saudi Arabia’s long -term emissions reduction goals.  
 
"Supplying key technologies for the Rumah 2 and Nairyah 2 power plants directly supports Saudi Arabia’s 
energy transition and its goal of achieving net zero emissions by 2060 ," said Ahmed ElSerry, Head of Gas 
Services Sales , Middle East . ”By manufacturing  critical components  at our Siemens Energy Dammam Hub, 
this project further strengthens local production capabilities and builds expertise within the Kingdom, 
contributing to a more resilient energy sector ,” he added.  
 
Siemens Energy will supply six SGT6 -9000HL gas turbines, four SST6 -5000 steam turbines, eight SGen6 -
3000W generators, two SGen6 -2000P generators, and associated auxiliary equipment, with each site 
generating approximately 1 .8 gigawatts  of electricity.  
 
This order  further strengthens  Siemens Energy’s established presence in Saudi Arabia’s Independent Power 
Producer (IPP ) market , solidifying its role in delivering a significant share of Saudi Arabia’s modern power Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a  trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
generation . Building on the success of previous projects like Taiba 2 and Qassim 2  – which  together add 4 
gigawatts to the national grid – Siemens Energy continues to drive local manufacturing expansion and 
infrastructure modernization, playing a key  role in the country’s energy sector.  
 
Rumah 2 and Nairyah 2 will initially be integrated into the grid in simple cycle mode in 2027, transitioning to 
full operation as combined -cycle power plants by the following year.  
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Asma Alsharif  
Phone:  +966 567635359  
E-mail:  asma.alsharif@siemens -energy.com  
 
 
Alina Mezentseva  
Phone:  +971 56 511 9312  
Email:  alina.mezentseva@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is available at  
www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on LinkedIn : www.linkedin.com/company/siemens -energy/  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on 
energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, so lutions 
and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat generation and transmission to 
storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power pl ants 
operated w ith hydrogen, and power generators and transformers.  
Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 
100,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated  revenue of €3 4.5 billion in fiscal year 202 4. www.siemens -
energy.com  
 
 