The Fleet  
Origin Energy, a leading Australian 
energy provider, supplies more than 4.2 
million people with energy. Origin 
Energy, a leading Australian energy 
provider, supplies approximately 4.2 
million people with energy. They gener -
ate more than 6,000 MW across their 
fleet of 9 power plants and provide 
approximately 13% of Australia‘s energy 
demand. The plants are spread across 
Australia and are comprised of gas-fired 
power plants, a coal-fired plant and a 
pump hydro plant.
The Task  
Australia’s energy demand is character -
ized by high volatility and extreme 
weather conditions and can have a 
significant impact on energy produc -
tion, therefore power generation needs 
to be dynamically adaptable to meet the 
actual needs. The joint challenge was to 
find a solution, which enabled central -
ized monitoring of the entire fleet and operational dispatch of peaking plants 
in order to manage the decentralized 
energy production remotely, mitigate 
risks and guarantee a reliable supply 
of electricity.
The Solution
To meet these requirements, Origin 
implemented a Monitoring and Support 
Centre (MSC) in Brisbane. The Fleet 
Center Solution enabled Origin to 
support their fleet operators in continu -
ously monitoring the individual plants 
as well as the entire fleet from a central 
location.  
 
By gaining the additional transparency 
across the fleet, Origin has been able to 
identify and solve potential issues faster 
than before. Some plants can be con -
trolled directly by Origin’s Monitoring 
and Support Center by sending defined 
set points directly to the units, thus 
enabling re-dispatch decisions. Addition -
ally, the Monitoring and Support Center 
is able to centrally manage fleet-wide 
shift planning, reporting and event-  
logging.  42 million  
people with energy
 more than  
6.000 MW  
across the fleet of  
9 power plants  
provide  13%  of 
Australia‘s energy  
demands
Origin Energy
Central monitoring and dispatch  
for improved reliability and efficiencysiemens-energy.com/digital-services
The Result
• Improved transparency across the fleet:  
Centralized monitoring, dispatch and opera -
tions management of single assets, plants and 
entire fleet
• Increased efficiency:  Ability to quickly react to 
volatile demand, thereby reducing risks of 
energy production
• Improved workflows:  Uniform shift planning, 
reporting and automated event logging
• Global leading performance and reliability 
levels across the entire fleet
All information is embedded into its context and 
role-specific tasks can be assigned easily within 
the organization.
The transmission of information over the commu -
nication network takes place in milliseconds and 
information across the entire fleet is readily 
available. All of this information in a central 
location enables more informed decisions which 
can result in higher efficiency and reliability. By 
automating the processes Origin has also experi -
enced an 80% reduction of manual operator 
actions. Additionally, through central operations, 
Origin has been able to achieve a 98% start-up 
reliability.
Published by and copyright © 2021
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany  
www.siemens-energy.com/digital-services
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. 
KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.“The Fleet Center is an investment 
that has already started to pay for 
itself.  
It is surpassing all the requirements 
we set. Our performance now is 
substantially better than we previ -
ously experienced.”
Jim Cooley, Generation Systems Manager, Origin Energy
Published by and copyright © 2021
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany  
www.siemens-energy.com/digital-services
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & 
Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the 
rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.