 
 Prospectus dated April 4, 2023  
 
Siemens Energy Finance B.V.  
(Zoeterwoude, The Netherlands)  
EUR  750,000,000  4.000  per cent.  Green Notes due 2026  
ISIN  XS2601458602 , Common Code  260145860 , WKN  A3LFSG   
Issue Price: 99.734  per cent.  
EUR  750,000,000  4.250  per cent.  Green Notes due 2029  
ISIN  XS2601459162 , Common Code 260145916 , WKN A3LFSH  
Issue Price: 99.477  per cent.  
guaranteed by  
Siemens Energy AG  
(Munich, Federal Republic of Germany)  
Siemens Energy Finance B.V. (the "Issuer ") will issue on April 5,  2023  (the " Issue Date ") EUR  750,000,000  4.000  per cent.  Green 
Notes due 2026  (the "2026  Notes ") and EUR  750,000,000  4.250  per cent.  Green Notes due 2029  (the " 2029  Notes " and, together with 
the 2026  Notes, the "Notes ") in the denomination of EUR  100,000 each.  
The Notes have the benefit of an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee  (the " Guarantee ") of Siemens Energy AG (the " Guarantor " 
or the "Company "). The Notes and the Guarantee will be governed by the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany (" Germany "). 
The 2026  Notes will be redeemed at their principal amount on April  5, 2026 and the 2029  Notes will be redeemed at their principal 
amount on April  5, 2029 (each a  "Maturity Date "). Under certain circumstances described in § 5 of the terms and conditions of the 
Notes (the " Terms and Conditions "), the Notes may be subject to early redemption. The  Notes will bear interest from and including 
April  5, 2023  (the " Interest Commencement Date ") to but excluding the relevant Maturity Date at a rate of 4.000  per cent.  per annum  
in case of the 2026  Notes and 4.250  per cent.  per annum  in case of the 2029  Notes.  
Interest on the Notes will be payable annually in arrear on April  5 of each year, commencing on April  5, 2024 . 
The Notes will initially be represented by a temporary global note, without interest coupons, which will be exchangeable in w hole or 
in part for a permanent global note without interest coupons, not earlier than 40 days after the Interest Commencement Date, upon 
certification as to non -U.S. beneficial ownership.  
This prospectus (the " Prospectus ") does not constitute a prospectus within the meaning of Regulation  (EU)  No 2017/1129 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 (as  amended, the " Prospectus Regulation "). Neither the Commission de 
Surveillance du Secteur Financier , the Luxembourg competent authority under the Prospectus Re gulation, nor any other "competent 
authority" (as defined in the Prospectus Regulation) has approved this Prospectus or reviewed information contained in this 
Prospectus.  
This Prospectus has been approved as a prospectus in compliance with the Rules and Re gulations of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange 
by the Luxembourg Stock Exchange as a competent authority under Part IV of the Luxembourg Law of 16  July 2019 on Prospectuses 
for Securities ( Loi relative aux prospectus pour valeurs mobilières ). Application has b een made to list the Notes on the official list 
(the " Official List ") of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and for admission to trading of the Notes on the Euro MTF operated by the 
Luxembourg Stock Exchange, which is a multilateral trading facility for the pur poses of Directive 2014/65/EU of the European 
Parliament and of the Council on markets in financial instruments, as amended, (" MiFID II "), and, therefore, not an EU -regulated 
market.  
This Prospectus will be published in electronic form together with all do cuments incorporated by reference on the website of the 
Luxembourg Stock Exchange (www. LuxSE.com ). 
This Prospectus does not constitute an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy, the Notes in any jurisdiction w here such offer 
or solicitation is unlawful.  
The Notes have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the " Securities Act ") 
and subject to certain exceptions, the Notes may not be offered or sold within the United States United States of Ameri ca 
("United States" or "U.S.")  or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons.  
Prospective investors of the Notes should ensure that they understand the nature of the Notes and the extent of their exposur e to risks 
and that they consider the suitabi lity of the Notes as an investment in light of their own circumstances and financial condition. Investing 
in the Notes involves certain risks. Please review the section entitled " Risk Factors " beginning on page 1 of this Prospectus.  
Joint Lead Manager and Green Structuring Advisor  
BNP PARIBAS  
 Joint Lead Managers   
Commerz bank Crédit Agricole CIB  Mizuho  Standard Chartered  
Bank  AG 
 Co-Lead Manager s  
Bank of China  Helaba  

 
- ii - 
 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT  
The Issuer and the Guarantor accept responsibility for the information contained in this Prospectus and each 
of the Issuer and the Guarantor hereby declares that the information contained in this Prospectus is, to the 
best of its knowledge, in accordance with the facts and makes no omission likely to affect its import.  
NOTICE  
No person is authorized to give any information or to make any representation other than those contained 
in this Prospectus in connection with the issue or sale of the Notes and, if given or made, such information 
or representation must not be relied upon as having been authorised by or on behalf of the Issuer, the 
Guarantor or BNP Paribas, Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft , Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment 
Bank, Mizuho Securities Euro pe GmbH , Standard Chartered Bank AG  (the "Joint Lead Managers "), 
Bank  of China (Europe) S.A.  and Landesbank Hessen -Thüringen Girozentrale (the " Co-Lead Manager s" 
and together with the Joint Lead Managers, the " Managers "). 
This Prospectus should be read and understood in conjunction with any documents incorporated herein or 
therein by reference.  
Each investor contemplating purchasing any Notes should make its own independent investigation of the 
financial condition and affairs, and its own appraisal of th e creditworthiness, of the Issuer, the Guarantor 
and its subsidiaries (the Guarantor together with its subsidiaries, "Siemens Energy ", the "Siemens Energy 
Group ", the "Group " or "we", "our", "us"). This Prospectus does not constitute an offer of Notes or a n 
invitation by or on behalf of the Issuer, the Guarantor or the Managers  to purchase any Notes. Neither this 
Prospectus nor any other information supplied in connection with the Notes should be considered as a 
recommendation by the Issuer, the Guarantor o r the Managers  to a recipient hereof and thereof that such 
recipient should purchase any Notes.  
This Prospectus reflects the status as of its date. The offering, sale and delivery of the Notes and the 
distribution of this Prospectus may not be taken as an implication that the information contained herein is 
accurate and complete subsequent to the date hereof or that there has been no adverse change in the financial 
condition of the Issuer , the Guarantor or the Siemens Energy Group since the date hereof.  
To the extent permitted by the laws of any relevant jurisdiction, neither any Manager nor any of their 
respective affiliates nor any other person mentioned in this Prospectus, except for the Issuer and the 
Guarantor, accepts responsibility for the accuracy an d completeness of the information contained in this 
Prospectus or any document incorporated by reference, and accordingly, and to the extent permitted by the 
laws of any relevant jurisdiction, none of these persons accept any responsibility for the accurac y and 
completeness of the information contained in any of these documents. The Managers  have not 
independently verified any such information and accept no responsibility for the accuracy thereof.  
None of the Managers , any of their affiliates or any other person mentioned in th is Prospectus makes any 
representation as to the suitability of the Notes to fulfil environmental and sustainability criteria required 
by any prospective investor. The Managers  have not undertaken, nor are res ponsible for, any assessment of 
the Green Bond Framework or the Eligible Green Expenditures (each as defined in the section "Use of 
Proceeds"), any verification of whether the Eligible Green Expenditures meet the criteria set out in the 
Green Bond Framewor k or the monitoring of the use of proceeds.  None of the Managers, any of their 
affiliates or any other person mentioned in this Prospectus accepts any responsibility for any social, 
environmental and sustainability assessment of the Notes (which are intend ed to be issued as "Green 
Notes ") or makes any representation, warranty or assurance whether such Notes will meet any investor 
expectations or requirements regarding such "green" or similar labels. None of the Managers is responsible 
for the use of proceed s for the Notes, nor the impact or monitoring of such use of proceeds. In addition 
none of the Managers have conducted any due diligence on the Green Bond Framework.  
This Prospectus does not constitute, and may not be used for the purposes of, an offer or solicitation by 
anyone in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is not authorised or to any person to whom it 
is unlawful to make such offer or solicitation.  
The distribution of this Prospectus and the offering, sale and delivery of the Note s in certain jurisdictions 
may be restricted by law. Persons into whose possession this Prospectus comes are required to inform 
themselves about and to observe any such restrictions. For a description of the restrictions applicable, 
 
- iii - 
 see "Subscription and S ale of the Notes – Selling Restrictions ". In particular, the Notes have not been and 
will not be registered under the Securities Act and are subject to United States tax law requirements. Subject 
to certain exceptions, the Notes may not be offered, sold or  delivered within the United States or to 
U.S. persons as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act (" Regulation S "). 
For the avoidance of doubt the content of any website referred to in this Prospectus does not form part of 
this Prospectus (unless expressly incorporated by reference) and the information on such websites has not 
been scrutinised or approved by the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.  
The language of this Prospectus is English. In respect of the Terms and Conditions , German is the 
controlling a nd legally binding language.  
In this Prospectus all references to " €", "EUR " or " Euro " are to the currency introduced at the start of the 
third stage of the European Economic and Monetary Union, and as defined in Article 2 of Council 
Regulation (EC) No  974/98 of 3 May 1998 on the introduction of the Euro, as amended.  
None of the Managers , any of their respective affiliates or any other person mentioned in this Prospectus 
makes any representation as to the suitability of the Notes to fulfill environmental an d sustainability criteria 
required by any prospective investors.  
MIFID II PRODUCT GOVERNANCE / TARGET MARKET: PROFESSIONAL INVESTORS 
AND ECPS ONLY  
Solely for the purposes of each manufacturer's product approval process, the target market assessment in 
respect of the Notes has led to the conclusion that: (i) the target market for the Notes is eligible 
counterparties and professional clients only, each as defined in MiFID II and (ii) all channels for distribution 
of the Notes to eligible counterparties and pr ofessional clients are appropriate. Any person subsequently 
offering, selling or recommending the Notes (a " Distributor ") should take into consideration the 
manufacturers' target market assessment; however, a Distributor subject to MiFID II is responsible for 
undertaking its own target market assessment in respect of the Notes (by either adopting or refining the 
manufacturers' target market assessment) and determining appropriate distribution channels. Neither the 
Issuer nor the Guarantor is a manufacturer or Distributor for the purposes of MiFID II.  
UK MIFI R PRODUCT GOVERNANCE / TARGET MARKET: PROFESSIONAL INVESTORS 
AND ECPS ONLY  
Solely for the purposes of the manufacturer's product approval process, the target market assessment in 
respect of the Notes has led to the conclusion that: (i) the target market for the Notes is only eligible 
counterparties, as defined in the UK Financial Conduct Authority (" FCA ") Handbook Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (" COBS "), and professional clients, as defined in Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 as it forms 
part of domestic law by virtue of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 (" UK MiFIR "); and 
(ii) all channels for distribution of the Notes to eligible counterparties and professional clients are 
appropriate. Any Di stributor should take into consideration the manufacturer's target market assessment; 
however,  a Distributor subject to the FCA Handbook Product Intervention and Product Governance 
Sourcebook (the " UK MiFIR Product Governance Rules ") is responsible for und ertaking its own target 
market assessment in respect of the Notes (by either adopting or refining the manufacturer's target market 
assessment) and determining appropriate distribution channels.  
Neither  the Issuer nor the Guarantor  is a manufacturer or a Distributor for the purposes of the  MiFID 
Product Governance Rules  or the UK MiFIR Product Governance Rules.  
PROHIBITION OF SALES TO EEA RETAIL INVESTORS  
The Notes are not intended to be offered, sold or otherwise made available to and should not be offered,  
sold or otherwise made available to any retail investor in the European Economic Area (" EEA "). For these 
purposes, a retail investor means a person who is one (or more) of: (i) a retail client as defined in point (11) 
of Article 4(1) of MiFID II or (ii) a  customer within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2016/97 , as amended  
(the " Insurance Distribution Directive "), where that customer would not qualify as a professional client 
as defined in point (10) of Article 4(1) of EU MiFID II. Consequently, no key inform ation document 
required by Regulation  (EU) No 1286/2014 , as amended  (the " PRIIPs Regulation ") for offering or selling 
the Notes or otherwise making them available to retail investors in the EEA has been prepared and therefore 
 
- iv - 
 offering or selling the Notes or otherwise making them available to any retail investor in the EEA may be 
unlawful under the  PRIIPs Regulation.  
PROHIBITION OF SALES TO UK RETAIL INVESTORS  
The Notes are not intended to be offered, sold or otherwise made available to and should not be of fered, 
sold or otherwise made available to any retail investor in the United Kingdom (" UK"). For these purposes, 
a retail investor means a person who is one (or more) of: (i) a retail client, as defined in point (8) of Article  2 
of Regulation (EU) No 2017/ 565 as it forms part of domestic law by virtue of the European Union 
(Withdrawal) Act 2018 (the " EUWA ") or (ii) a customer within the meaning of the provisions of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, as amended (" FSMA ") and any rules or regulations  made under 
the FSMA to implement Directive (EU) 2016/97, where that customer would not qualify as a professional 
client, as defined in point (8) of Article 2(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 as it forms part of domestic 
law by virtue of the EUWA. Consequ ently, no key information document required by 
Regulation  (EU)  No 1286/2014 as it forms part of domestic law by virtue of the EUWA (the " UK PRIIPs 
Regulation ") for offering or selling the Notes or otherwise making them available to retail investors in the 
UK has been prepared and therefore offering or selling the Notes or otherwise making them available to 
any retail investor in the UK may be unlawful under the UK PRIIPs Regulation.  
STABILIZATION  
IN CONNECTION WITH THE ISSUE OF THE NOTES, BNP PARIBAS  (THE  "STABILIZING 
MANAGER ") (OR  ANY PERSON ACTING ON BEHALF OF ANY STABILIZING MANAGER) MAY 
OVER -ALLOT NOTES OR EFFECT TRANSACTIONS WITH A VIEW TO SUPPORTING THE 
MARKET PRICE OF THE NOTES AT A LEVEL HIGHER THAN THAT WHICH MIGHT 
OTHERWISE PREVAIL. HOWEVER, STABILIZATION MAY NOT NECESSARILY OCCUR. ANY 
STABILIZATION ACTION MAY BEGIN ON OR AFTER THE DATE ON WHICH ADEQUATE 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THE TERMS OF THE OFFER OF THE NOTES IS MADE AND, IF 
BEGUN, MAY CEASE AT ANY TIME, BUT IT MUST END NO LATER THAN  THE EARLIER OF 
30 DAYS AFTER THE ISSUE DATE OF THE NOTES AND 60 DAYS AFTER THE DATE OF THE 
ALLOTMENT OF THE NOTES. ANY STABILIZATION ACTION OR OVER -ALLOTMENT MUST 
BE CONDUCTED BY THE STABILIZING MANAGER (OR ANY PERSON ACTING ON BEHALF 
OF THE STABILIZING M ANAGER) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE LAWS AND 
RULES.  
ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES  
Certain financial measures for the Siemens Energy Group presented in "Description of the Guarantor – 
6.2. Alternative Performance Measures" , are not recognized financial measures under International 
Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS ") as adopted by the European Union (" Alternative Performance 
Measures " or "APM ") and may the refore not be considered as an alternative to the financial measures 
defined under IFRS. The  Guarantor has provided these Alternative Performance Measures because it 
believes these Alternative  Performance Measures provide investors with additional informat ion to assess 
the operating performance and financial condition of Siemens Energy Group's business activities. The 
definition of the Alternative Performance Measures may vary from the definition of identically named 
alternative performance measures used by  other companies. The Alternative Performance Measures for 
Siemens Energy Group presented by the Guarantor should not be considered as an alternative to measures 
of operating performance or financial condition derived in accordance with IFRS. These Alterna tive 
Performance Measures have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as 
substitutes for the analysis of the consolidated results or cash flows of the Siemens Energy Group as 
reported under IFRS.  
ESG RATINGS  
Siemens En ergy's exposure to environmental, social and governance (" ESG ") risks and the related 
management arrangements established to mitigate those risks has been assessed by several agencies, 
including Sustainalytics, MSCI, ISS ESG, CDP, Ecovadis through ESG rati ngs (" ESG Ratings "). Please 
refer to the section "Sustainability" on page 114 of this Prospectus for further information.  
ESG Ratings may vary amongst ESG Ratings agencies as the methodologies used to determine ESG 
Ratings may differ. Siemens Energy's ESG Ratings are not necessarily indicative of its current or future 
 
- v - 
 operating or financial performance, or any future ability to service the Notes and are only current  as of the 
dates on which they were initially issued. Prospective investors must determine for themselves the 
relevance of any such ESG Ratings information contained in this Prospectus or elsewhere in making an 
investment decision. Furthermore, ESG Ratings  shall not be deemed to be a recommendation by the Issuer, 
the Guarantor, the Managers  or any other person to buy, sell or hold the Notes. Currently, the providers of 
such ESG Ratings are not subject to any regulatory or other similar oversight in respect of their 
determination and award of ESG Ratings. For more information regarding the assessment methodologies 
used to determine ESG Ratings, please refer to the relevant rating agency's website (which website does 
not form a part of, nor is incorporated by reference in, this Prospectus).  
ROUNDING , PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND NEW 
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE  
Financial information  in this Prospectus have been commercially rounded to whole numbers. Because of 
rounding, financial information  shown in the tables below do not necessarily add up exactly to the 
respective totals or subtotals presented and aggregated percentages may not exactly equal 100%. F inancial 
information presented in parentheses denotes the negative of such number presented. In respect of financial 
information set out below, a dash ( "—") signifies that the relevant figure is not available or equals zero, 
while a zero ( "0") or nil signi fies that the relevant figure is available but has been rounded to zero.  
Siemens Energy  introduced a new organizational structure of its business operations at the beginning of the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2023. Until September 30, 2022, our busine ss operations were organized 
in two reportable segments, Gas and Power and Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (" SGRE "). 
The former Gas and Power segment was split into the three divisions Transmission, Generation and 
Industrial Applications, and the business unit Other Operations. Since October 1, 2022, the Gas and Power 
segment has substantially been divided into three business areas: Gas Services, Grid Technologies and 
Transformation of Industry. For the three -month period ended December 31, 2022 Gas Service s and Grid 
Technologies represent reportable segments and Transformation of Industry combines the four operating 
segments: Sustainable Energy Systems (" SES"), Electrification, Automation, Digitalization (" EAD "), 
Industrial Steam Turbines & Generators (" STG ") and Compression (" CP"). SGRE represents a reportable 
segment. In the following , Gas Services, Grid Technologies, Transformation of Industry and SGRE are 
referred to as "business areas".  
FORWARD -LOOKING STATEMENTS  
This Prospectus contains certain forward -looking statements. A forward -looking statement is a statement 
that does not relate to historical facts and events. They are based on analyses or forecasts of future results 
and estimates of amounts not yet determinable or foreseeable. These forwar d-looking statements are 
identified by the use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate", "believe", "could", "estimate", "expect", 
"intend", "may", "plan", "predict", "project", "will" and similar terms and phrases, including references and 
assumptions. T his applies, in particular, to statements in this Prospectus containing information on future 
earning capacity, plans and expectations regarding business and management, growth and profitability, and 
general economic and regulatory conditions and other fac tors that affect Siemens Energy Group.  
Forward -looking statements in this Prospectus are based on current estimates and assumptions that the 
Issuer or the Guarantor make to the best of their present knowledge. These forward -looking statements are 
subject t o risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results, including Siemens Energy 
Group's financial condition and results of operations, to differ materially from and be worse than results 
that have expressly or implicitly been assumed or  described in these forward -looking statements. 
Siemens  Energy Group's business is also subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause a 
forward -looking statement, estimate or prediction in this Prospectus to become inaccurate. Accordingly , 
investors are strongly advised to read the sections " Description of the Guarantor " and " Description of the 
Issuer " of this Prospectus. These sections include more detailed descriptions of factors that might have an 
impact on Siemens Energy Group's busine ss and the markets in which it operates.  
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, future events described in this Prospectus may not 
occur. In addition, neither the Issuer, the Guarantor nor the Managers  assume any obligation, except as 
required by law, to update any forward -looking statement or to conform these forward -looking statements 
to actual events or developments.  
 
- vi - 
 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION  
The Issuer confirms that information which has been sourced from a third party  has been accurately 
reproduced and as far as the Issuer is aware and is able to ascertain from information published by that third 
party, no facts have been omitted which would render the reproduced information inaccurate or misleading. 
The Issuer does no t accept any responsibility for the accuracy of such information, nor has the Issuer 
independently verified any such information.  Neither the Issuer, the Guarantor nor any Manager accepts 
any responsibility for the accuracy of such information, and neither  the Issuer, the Guarantor nor any 
Manager has independently verified any such information.  
 
 CONTENTS  
 Page  
RISK FACTORS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  1 
USE OF PROCEEDS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 40 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE 2026 NOTES  ................................ ................................ ..............  41 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE 2029 NOTES  ................................ ................................ ..............  69 
GUARANTEE ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  97 
DESCRIPTION OF THE GUARANTOR  ................................ ................................ ...............................  103 
DESCRIPTION OF THE ISSUER ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  131 
TAXATION WARNING  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................  133 
SUBSCRIPTION AND SALE OF THE NOTES  ................................ ................................ ....................  134 
GENERAL INFORMATION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  136 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  ................................ ................................ ...........  137 
 
 
- 1 - 
 RISK FACTORS  
Prospective investors should read the entire Prospectus, any supplement(s) thereto and the Documents 
Incorporated by Reference. Words and expressions defined in the "Terms and Conditions" below or 
elsewhere in this Prospectus have the same meanings in this section. Investing in the Notes involves 
certain risks.  
The following is a disclosure of material risks which are specific to the Issuer and to the Guarantor and 
that may affect the Issuer's ability to fulfill its obligations under the Notes and the Guarantor's ability to 
fulfill its obligations under the Guara ntee and material risks which are specific to the Notes in order to 
assess the market risk associated with the Notes.  
Prospective investors should consider these risk factors before deciding to purchase any Notes. 
Prospective investors should consider all information provided in this Prospectus, any supplement(s) 
thereto and the Documents Incorporated by Reference and consult with their own professional advisors 
(including their financial, accounting, legal and tax advisors) if they consider it necessary. I n addition, 
prospective investors should be aware that the risks described may combine and thus intensify one another.  
Each prospective investor in the Notes must further determine the suitability of that investment in light 
of its own (or if it is acquir ing the Notes in a fiduciary capacity the beneficiary's) circumstances. In 
particular, each prospective investor and , if it is acquiring the Notes in a fiduciary capacity the beneficiary 
(either alone or with a financial advisor) should:  
(a) have sufficient k nowledge and experience to make a meaningful evaluation of the Notes, the 
merits and risks of investing in the Notes and the information contained or incorporated by 
reference in this Prospectus or any applicable supplement;  
(b) have access to, and knowledge of, appropriate analytical tools to evaluate, in the context of its 
particular financial situation and the investment(s) it is considering, an investment in the Notes 
and the impact the Notes will have on its overall investment portfolio;  
(c) have sufficient financial resources and liquidity to bear all of the risks of an investment in the 
Notes, including where the currency for principal or interest payments is different from the 
prospective investor's currency;  
(d) understand thoroughly the terms of the Notes a nd be familiar with the behavior of any relevant 
indices and financial markets; and  
(e) be able to evaluate (either alone or with the help of a financial advisor) possible scenarios for 
economic, interest rate and other factors that may affect its investment and its ability to bear the 
applicable risks.  
Risks relating to Siemens Energy AG and Siemens Energy Group  
1. Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Risks  
1.1 Adverse changes of certain macroeconomic factors may negatively affect our business, 
financial position and resu lts of operations.  
Our business is exposed to the macroeconomic conditions of the economies in which we operate. Should 
these conditions deteriorate , our business may be adversely affected. For example, customers may modify, 
delay or cancel plans to purcha se our products, solutions and services, or they may fail to follow through 
on purchases or contracts already executed in case of an actual or expected deterioration of the 
macroeconomic environment. For the same reasons, the prices of our products, soluti ons and services 
may decline to a greater extent than anticipated.  
In light of recent developments of the macroeconomic environment, an increased risk of recession, or 
persistent inflation, may raise risks across our markets. In particular, an inflationary  environment may 
force us to increase prices to cover our own costs and maintain profit levels. Should we be unable to 
increase our prices this would adversely affect our profitability. Furthermore, an extended period of 
inflation may lead to a stagflation  or recession. In turn, this could lead to the postponement of energy -
related investments or shift those investments to other areas of the economy or other geographical regions 
 
- 2 - 
 where we have less presence or are less competitive. In addition, the recent in crease in inflation has 
already had a notable impact on prices for our inputs, and we expect this impact to continue.  
In the event of weak ening macroeconomic conditions, our customers may face challenges to obtain 
financing  for their projects from lenders or in the capital markets . This is particularly relevant in 
connection with activities in oil and gas projects, grid -related projects and power generation projects, 
including wind power projects, as such projects typically require substantial investments. The financing 
available to our customers has a significant impact on whether and when our customers will proceed with 
the development of wind power projects and purchase our wind turbine systems and services.  
Our customers' financing may also involve exter nal financing from international investors and lenders . 
Any increase in market volatility and liquidity disruptions in the global financial system could make it 
difficult for our customers to obtain financing for new projects. For example, volatility in fi nancial 
markets has increased as a result of  the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the outbreak and persistence of 
the Coronavirus (" COVID -19") pandemic.  
Customers ' financing may also be subject to the availability of export credit agencies' (" ECAs ") support. 
ECA support generally has a significant influence on whether and when customers and their lending banks 
will proceed with the development of such projects. In particular, large projects may become increasingly 
difficult to finance and subject to s tricter requirements. In addition, customers could request to move 
agreed payment dates, which could negatively impact our financial position. Our customers may also 
increasingly request more business models focusing on operational expenditure where we rec eive 
payments distributed over a timeframe of several years while most of our costs arise upfront.  
If macroeconomic conditions deteriorate, including an adverse development of financing conditions and 
reduced credit support for our customers, we could face  reduced demand for our offering, which could in 
particular affect our project business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position 
and results of operations.  
1.2 Oil prices or long -term demand for oil and gas could negatively affect  our business.  
We are exposed to risks from long -term low oil prices or long -term low demand for oil and gas, as well 
as to risks from long -term high prices and high demand, as demand for some of our products, systems 
solutions and services may be affected  by demand for oil and gas. Historically, prices for crude oil and 
gas have fluctuated in response to changes in many factors.  
The price s for oil and gas and volatility in the oil and gas market s impact our customers' business 
activities, including their investment behavior.  Prolonged declines or volatility  in oil and gas prices may 
result in customers postponing their investments , which in turn affects demand for some of our products 
such as compressors, industrial gas turbines  and subsea products. For exa mple, following the outbreak of 
the COVID -19 pandemic in 2020, oil prices declined and even turned  negative in the United States , which 
led to customers in the oil and gas industr y significantly reducing their investments. Furthermore, 
customers might seek  to renegotiate their contracts  with us  or eventually default on their  payment  
obligations . 
On the other hand, long -term high prices for oil and gas could cause an overall economic recession which 
may raise risks across our markets (see also " 1.1 Adverse changes of certain macroeconomic factors may 
negatively affect our business, financial position and results of operations."). Furthermore, persistently 
high gas pric es as well as potential gas shortages, which may be further exacerbated by the war in Ukraine, 
pose additional risks in particular for the market for large gas turbines, including the service market. This 
market could experience a reduction in utilization impacted by the switch away from gas to other fuels in 
the case of increasing use of renewable  energy  or coal prices falling faster than gas prices. In case of 
demand swings caused by changes in oil and gas prices, we may not be able to ad apt our operation s 
accordingly, which may result in under - or overcapacities.  
Any significant adverse developments, including sustained low prices and volatility, in oil and gas 
markets could reduce customers' demand for the Group's products, particularly in our business a reas 
Gas Services and Transformation of Industry, which could have a material adverse impact on our 
business, financial position and results of operations.  
 
- 3 - 
 1.3 Political instability, international conflicts or new trade barriers may have a negative effect 
on our business, financial position and results of operations.  
Our business prospects and the execution of projects awarded to us may be negatively affected by political 
instability or international conflicts. For example, we may be forced to reorganize, reduce or terminate 
business operations in geographical areas wh ere our employees, partners or subcontractors would 
otherwise be subject to unacceptable economic or personal risks, e.g., due to ongoing or threatened civil 
unrest, terror attacks or wars. Some of our current and planned projects and service activities ar e in regions 
that are exposed to a higher risk in this respect, e.g., in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan , Libya, and Iraq. 
Furthermore, our business prospects or the processing of our order backlog may be negatively affected 
by changes in the political and eco nomic framework, e.g., due to trade wars, punitive tariffs, sanctions, 
protectionist measures or boycotts.  
In particular, we face risks due to political instability or international conflicts in the Middle East related 
to a possible adverse impact on the i mplementation of the five -year roadmap for Iraq and tensions with 
Iran over compliance with the Iran nuclear deal. Any of this could lead to significant project execution 
delays or even change the scope of our projects in Iraq. Furthermore, the currently e xisting tensions in 
Iran may negatively impact our business prospects as the likelihood for a normalization of political and 
business relationships decreases.  
As we are a globally operating group, the imposition of new trade barriers would negatively impac t 
production costs and productivity along our value chains. In addition, new trade barriers may reduce the 
level of investment activity and cause disruptions to our supply chain, which could severely affect our 
business  (see also " 4.1 We are dependent on the availability of certain materials, parts and components, 
and any disruptions in the supply chain may result in additional costs or loss of revenue.") . In this co ntext, 
we are exposed to tensions between Taiwan and China as well as between Japan and Russia. Possible 
negative effects on our business from these tensions include longer lead times for production and delivery 
of certain products,  as well as  higher costs  for certain materials, parts and components. In addition, these 
political tensions could also lead to disruptions in trade through sanctions or other political measures 
affecting trade.  
As we have significant business in the U.S. and in China, we are particularly exposed to the risk of  new 
trade barriers impeding our business with China and the U.S. In particular, several components for the 
products of our subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy S.A., Zamudio, Spain, (" SGRE  S.A."), 
together with its sub sidiaries (" SGRE  Group ") are manufactured in China. Hence, escalating trade 
tensions between the  United  States and China  may lead to interruptions in manufacturing processes, 
delays in product delivery and claims for damages. If we become unable to obtain  components from  
Chinese suppliers as a result, our SGRE business area  may not be able to replace them in a timely manner 
or at  commerc ially reasonabl e costs. Our SGRE business area  may also find it increasingly difficult to 
sell its products that are subject to additional tariffs in the Chinese market at a competitive price or at all.  
The realization of any significant adverse political developments co uld have a material adverse effect on 
our business, financial position and results of operations.  
1.4 Our industries and business operations are subject to various risks relating to global or 
local outbreaks of infectious diseases and other public health crise s. 
We are a globally operating Group and, as such, our business is directly and indirectly, through our 
customers and suppliers, exposed to various risks arising from the global and local spread of infectious 
diseases, such as the recent COVID -19 pandemic or other public health crises. Risks stem from the effects 
of such crises as well as the impact of measures introduced to reduce infection rates, including restrictions 
on travel, self -isolation and imposition of quarantines, working from home, temporary o r prolonged 
closures of workplaces, curfews or other social distancing measures, including the social impact of such 
measures. There can be no guarantee that such measures, or a combination thereof, are effective means 
to combat such an outbreak and its im plications. Further  public health crises, such as a resurgence of the 
COVID -19 pandemic and a re -imposition of public health measures in response , could adversely affect 
our ability to fulfill contractual obligations and customer commitments and may have m aterial adverse 
effects on our business, results of operations and financial position. While the current measures limit the 
ongoing impacts, our business still remains subject to the risk of interruption or closure of our production 
or project sites and th e risk of disrupted supply chains due to continuing infection, new outbreaks and the 
emergence of variants.  
 
- 4 - 
 Further, since the onset of the COVID -19 pandemic in early 2020, we have faced ongoing supply chain 
challenges and disruptions. Complexity and risk of and supply chain disruptions and increasing costs have 
further increased due to a combination of logistical bottlenecks, lockdowns in China, supplier capacity 
constraints, material and energy shortages ( e.g., gas and oil), extended delivery times, espec ially for 
semiconductors and electronic products.  
2. Strategic Risks  
2.1 Competition and lower market prices could negatively affect our business, financial 
position and results of operations.  
The worldwide markets for our products, solutions and services are hig hly competitive. Factors such as 
pricing, product and service quality, product development and introduction time, customer relationships, 
financing terms and the ability to adapt quickly to shifts in market demands and trends play an important 
role in our highly competitive market environments. For example, governments in some of our SGRE 
business area 's key markets continue moving away from fixed support regimes for renewable energy 
generation ( i.e., incentivized subsidy schemes) towards market -based auction models where a number of 
competing developers submit bids for projects, with awards being made based on the lowest entry price 
and the lowest level of incentives required for the project.  
We face strong established competitor s, as well  as new competitors from emerging markets  that have 
developed their offerings locally and are expanding globally into our markets. We also face competitors 
from new industries such as digital industries, which may offer more advanced products or solutions or 
have a better cost structure. Furthermore, new competitors may arise due to ongoing consolidation in 
some industry fields in which we operate, which also may result in stronger competitors or a change in 
our relative market position. Decreasing demand f or our offerings due to increased competition could 
lead to increases in inventory of finished goods or work -in-progress or unexpected price erosion.  
Globally, we face price pressure from contractors which offer turnkey power plant solutions using 
componen ts from different suppliers to optimize costs. Similarly, customers who are facing increasingly 
fierce competition ( e.g., from the renewable energy industry or new price determination processes such 
as market -based auctions) often pass on the price pressur e to their original equipment manufacturer 
("OEM ") suppliers such as the Group. Reduced demand for our products might also lead to additional 
overcapacities of OEM suppliers putting additional pressure on profitability.  
In the future, our SGRE business are a may face additional competition from other manufacturers that 
might decide to enter global wind turbine markets, which may result in price decreases and/or a loss of 
market share for our SGRE business area . In our turbine service business, we face compet ition from major 
established players and non -OEM suppliers. For our Grid Technologies and SGRE business areas , 
emerging Asian competitors pose a great challenge as they continuously enter new markets and increase 
their competitiveness through market consol idation. This risk is further exacerbated as we believe that it 
is beneficial to us if we are active in these markets via a partner and hence grant the non -exclusive right 
to certain companies to manufacture, sell and service certain of our products in spe cific territories, or to 
use certain of our intellectual property or design tools to develop their own product s. Should we 
subsequently decide to directly serve the respective market, we may be forced to compete with our partner.  
Some of these developments  may prompt us to revise our strategy and product portfolio , which may not 
yield the targeted results. If the Group is unable to compete effectively against its competitors or achieve 
satisfactory prices in negotiations with customers, this could have a ma terial adverse effect on our 
business, financial position and results of operations.  
 
- 5 - 
 2.2 We may be unable to successfully develop and launch competitive products, services and 
solutions, and our research and development efforts may be unsuccessful. Furthermore , 
the pace of technological change may result in the economic life cycle of certain of our 
products being shorter than anticipated.  
We may not be successful in developing a portfolio of technologically advanced products, services and 
solutions within the p lanned timeframe or at all, or at prices that allow our new developments to be 
competitive when compared to similar products, services and solutions available in the market.  
The markets in which we operate experience rapid and significant changes due to th e introduction of 
innovative and disruptive technologies to meet the accelerating demand for (green) energy. Our operating 
results have in the past depended and will continue to depend to a significant extent on our ability to meet 
the evolving needs of cu rrent and prospective customers in a timely manner, our ability to anticipate and 
adapt to changes in our markets and to optimize our cost base accordingly. Optimizing the levelized cost 
of energy of its products and its cost base is particularly important  for our SGRE business area . 
Furthermore, in the area of electric energy storage, we face the risk that competitors' energy storage 
solutions are more cost effective than our own. In addition, storage solutions may in the future reduce 
demand for applicati ons of our gas turbine product lines. Even if we succeed in developing innovative 
technologies, our competitors may be able to commercialize similar technologies faster or more 
successfully than us.  
Introducing new products and technologies requires a sign ificant financial commitment to research and 
development. However, the developed technologies may not operate or may not be integrated as expected, 
or they may not be accepted in the market as anticipated. Even if our products, solutions or systems may 
be accepted in principle, they may fail to be introduced into the market in a timely manner or even become 
obsolete. In each case our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our service revenue depend s 
to a large extent on our installed base of rot ating equipment. Hence, fewer than expected operating hours 
or lower sales may erode the base of our future service revenue. Furthermore, in our rotating equipment 
business we may not be able to keep pace with the rapid changes in the market across the ent ire gas turbine 
portfolio given the high development costs and risks and uncertainties of the technologies needed in the 
future. In addition, our SGRE business area 's onshore product competitiveness could suffer if its portfolio 
optimization plans encounte r delays or its products may fail to meet market expectations.  
We face the risk that the economic life cycle of certain of our products, in particular wind turbine models, 
may be shorter than we anticipate. As we are exposed to structural market changes in  the wind power 
market, we may face pressure on the established business of SGRE  Group , and SGRE Group may fail to 
adapt its business model in time or at all.  
We are constantly investing time and money in the digitization of our portfolio with the aim of extend ing 
our digital services portfolio "Omnivise" and to optimize the costs of our  service offerings . However, 
such investments may not translate into profitable business, or we may be too slow or less successful than 
our industry peers, or new digital pl ayers who could become new competitors, in the field of digital 
offerings related to our products.  
Our patents and other intellectual property (" IP") may not prevent competitors from independently 
developing or selling similar products and services. Recent ly, we have aimed at reducing costs while at 
the same time adequately protecting our innovations by pursuing a more selective strategy when securing 
new patents. This increased the efforts required to defend against third -party IP rights and other measures  
to mitigate risks relating to IP rights. If we fail to strike an adequate balance between cost reduction and 
an adequate level of protection, we might not have the portfolio of IP rights required to be competitive. 
This risk is further exacerbated by our activities in the area of additive manufacturing.  
2.3 We have incurred significant costs and other expenditures in connection with the recent 
acquisition of a further stake in SGRE  S.A., which may not yield the desired benefits.  
In 2022 , we launched a voluntary cash tender offer for all outstanding shares in SGRE  S.A. 
(the "SGRE  Offer "). Following the tender offer and subsequent further purchases of SGRE  shares, our 
stake in SGRE  S.A. increased from approximately 67% to approximately 9 8%, as of the date of this 
Prospectus,  and we aim to acquire the remaining  shares in SGRE  S.A. We also had SGRE  S.A.'s shares  
delist ed from the Spanish stock exchanges to simplify processes and fully focus on the operational 
turnaround of SG RE Group . However, we may not achieve our objective of gaining full control and 
 
- 6 - 
 integration of SGRE  Group.  We may also fail to simplify and improve the organization of the Siemens 
Energy Group through establishing a simpler structure and a unified manageme nt, applying common 
reporting, control and governance processes, and we may not be able to maximize the opportunities 
arising from a larger size of the Siemens Energy Group and to avoid unnecessary duplication of structures.  
In this case, transaction costs  and expenses incurred by us so far would not be recoverable and not yield 
the expected benefits.  
2.4 We face risks relating to potential acquisitions, including difficulties regarding the 
integration of the acquired business, and divestitures. Similar risks e xist in connection to 
entering into or exiting from joint ventures with partners.  
We may divest our activities in some business area s and strengthen others through portfolio measures, 
including mergers and acquisitions, or enter into or exit from joint ven tures with partners.  
With respect to divestitures, we may not be able to divest some of our activities as planned, and the 
divestitures we do carry out could have a negative impact on our business situation, financial position, 
results of operations and re putation. In addition, in the event of divestitures, acquirers may successfully 
bring claims against us, e.g., based on alleged violations of representations and warranties.  
There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable targets or com plete acquisitions on 
favorable terms or at all. Once executed, mergers and acquisitions bear risks , in particular because of 
difficulties that may arise when integrating personnel, operations, technologies and products. There can 
be no assurance that any of the businesses we acquire can be integrated successfully and on schedule, that 
they will perform as anticipated once integrated, or that any potentially anticipated synergies can actually 
be realized. For example, we may not be able to achieve the antic ipated synergies in connection with the 
integration of the SGRE business area  (see also " 2.5 We may not be able to successfully implement our 
strategies; in particular we may fail to successfully complete cost savings and other reorganization 
programs, benefit from the disruptive trends in global energy markets and increase the share of our servi ce 
business."). We  may also be unable to retain key personnel and key customers of the acquired businesses. 
In addition, we may assume material unknown risks and liabilities if we fail to accurately assess these 
prior to the acquisition, and we may not hav e recourse claims against the sellers. Acquisitions may be 
capital intensive and tie up valuable management resources.  
We may incur significant transaction costs, administrative costs, tax and other expenditures in connection 
with these transactions, inclu ding costs related to integration of acquired businesses. Furthermore, 
portfolio measures may result in additional financing needs and adversely affect our capital structure. 
Acquisitions can lead to substantial additions to intangible assets, including go odwill, in our statements 
of financial position. If we were to encounter continuing adverse business developments or if the acquired 
businesses were to perform worse than expected, then these intangible assets, including goodwill, may 
have to be impaired, which could adversely affect our business situation, financial position and results of 
operations (see also " 10.11  The market value of the Notes could decrease if t he creditworthiness of the 
Issuer or the Guarantor worsens. "). 
2.5 We may not be able to successfully implement our strategies; in particular we may fail to 
successfully complete cost savings and other reorganization programs, benefit from the 
disruptive trend s in global energy markets and increase the share of our service business.  
Our future operational performance and financial position depends to a significant degree on the success 
of the strategic and operational measures we plan to implement or are curren tly implementing. In 
particular, our strategy comprises the following elements:  
• We have already initiated various reorganization and cost savings programs that we will continue 
to pursue. In particular, we continue to pursue our "Accelerating Impact" progr am, which is set 
to run until the fiscal year ending September 30, 2025. The program aims to realign the central 
functions transferred from Siemens Aktiengesellschaft , Munich and Berlin, Germany 
("Siemens  AG") or its direct and indirect subsidiaries (toget her with Siemens AG, the " Siemens 
Group " or " Siemens "), adapt our  setup to the requirements of an independent company, reduc e 
complexity and increase efficiency . All these measures aim at improving our revenue, 
profitability and cash flow. However, we may incur substantial costs and cash outflows when 
implementing such programs and there can be no guarantee that they will yield the targeted 
benefits.  
 
- 7 - 
 • With the SGRE "Mistral" program, we seek to address the changing demands of the wind energy 
industry over th e next decades. In particular, we take into account the increased share of wind 
power in the global energy mix as well as the rising demand for storage capabilities. However, 
there can be no guarantee that we will be able to adapt our business model in tim e or at all. While 
we aim to focus our research and development spending on growing market segments and 
products that we expect to offer a sustainable competitive advantage, there can be no guarantee 
that our research and development spending will deliver the targeted economic benefits. There is 
also a risk that such shift in focus in our research and development spending will lead to a decline 
of our competitive position in our traditional core portfolio. In connection with the acquisition of 
outstanding s hares in SGRE  S.A., we also initiated further synergy programs.  
• We regard our service business as a major pillar to achieve sustainable business success. Hence, 
we seek to enlarge this business further and leverage it more going forward. Should we fail to 
increase the share of our service business, we may fail to achieve our profitability improvement 
targets. Specifically in our service business we may face more competition. In particular, trends 
such as digital technologies and additive manufacturing may e nable our competitors to service 
our installed base at a competitive cost/price level. With regard to our wind power service 
business of the SGRE business area , wind farm operators may opt to service their fleet themselves 
or engage third -party service pro viders.  
• We have set ourselves certain goals to optimize the allocation of our resources, streamline our 
portfolio and increase our performance. Among others, we seek to further reduce non -
conformance costs in our project and product business. We are also t argeting an improvement in 
our cash conversion rate ( i.e., free cash flow  pre tax  divided by Profit ), including by stricter 
working capital management, reducing costs resulting from organizational complexity, footprint 
adjustments and strict return criteri a for capital expenditure and acquisitions. We are planning to 
reduce complexity and risks in our solution businesses by limiting our exposure in Engineering, 
Procurement and Construction (" EPC ") activities. There is a risk that this may lead to a lower 
pull-through of products and have a negative bearing on capacity utilization in our factories.  
The achievement of targeted improvements of our performance depends not only on the successful 
implementation of such measures but also on other developments, for example in relation to the market 
environment, including market prices for our products, solutions and services and cost increases, 
including costs for raw materials and components, which may be beyond our control (see also " 4.1 We 
are dependent on the availability of certain materials, parts and components, and any disruptions in the 
supply chain may result in additional costs or loss of revenue."). Furthermore, the assumptions underlying 
our planning could prove to be incorrect  or may need to be revised in the future. In any such case, our 
strategy may not yield the targeted improvements . 
2.6 In connection with existing and potential future reorganization and cost savings measures, 
we may incur substantial restructuring expenses and  cash outflows. We may not be able to 
realize expected cost savings or we may fail to adjust our organizational and manufacturing 
footprint in a timely manner or at all, and such reorganizations may not yield the targeted 
benefits or may damage our reputat ion. 
The markets in which we operate as a global supplier of technology for the energy and electricity sectors 
are subject to disruptive developments. This environment has required us to adjust our organizational and 
manufacturing footprint to adapt to cha nging market conditions and may require us to make such 
adjustments in the future. Our business prospects could be materially adversely affected if we are unable 
to make such adjustments in time or at all . Further reorganizations and productivity programs may be 
required to adapt to a changing product portfolio or customer basis or to price pressure in the market.  
The implementation of potential reorganization programs in response to downswings or such changes 
may from time to time require the reduction of personnel in some functional areas or reorganization of 
manufacturing sites and may require us to incur significant restructuring expenses ( e.g., severance 
payments) that affect our results of operations . For example, measures relating to our "Accelerating  
Impact" program include a planned reduction of personnel of around 7,800 jobs worldwide in our former 
Gas and Power segment  and corresponding severance payments.  
Any reorganization measure may lead to significant cash outflows, including due to severance charges. 
In addition, our ability to adapt our footprint or re -size our support functions quickly may be limited due 
 
- 8 - 
 to labor law restrictions, in particular when compared to certain competitors. Furthermore, reorganization, 
performance enhancement and cos t savings measures may not yield the targeted results.  
The implementation of potential future measures may also result in substantial restructuring expenses and 
cash outflows, which could end up being higher than planned. Furthermore, the implementation of  these 
measures may take longer than originally expected or ultimately fail, e.g., due to regulatory requirements 
varying from country to country.  
Failure to implement potential reorganization measures, including productivity programs, in response to 
downs wings could result in overcapacities, while failure to implement such measures in response to 
upswings may result in loss of businesses. We may also lose key personnel if we prove unable to adapt 
to changing market conditions. Additionally, public criticis m related to a reorganization might negatively 
impact our reputation. Even if we succeed to implement potential reorganization measures as we see fit, 
there can be no assurance that they will yield the targeted cost savings.  
In addition, in certain countri es, a part of our investment requirements for developing and expanding our 
capacity and our product portfolio, in particular with respect to innovative concepts, is sometimes covered 
by public aid, such as subsidies, loans at favorable conditions or tax re ductions or exemptions. If we were 
to close certain manufacturing plants or business es, we may have to repay in full or in part public aid 
received in the past, which can be substantial.  
If we are unable to successfully implement planned potential reorgani zation, performance enhancement 
or cost savings measures or if these do not result in the planned savings, this could have a material adverse 
effect on our business, financial position and results of operations . 
2.7 The SGRE business area may not succeed in ad dressing the challenges resulting from 
structural market changes in the wind power industry.  
Our SGRE business area  is active in the wind power industry. Historically, the wind power industry has 
benefitted from various direct and indirect subsidies, e.g., economically favorable preferential tariffs or 
regulated feed -in tariffs. Furthermore, tax incentives were provided to promote investment, an d such 
support has been a factor in encouraging investments in wind energy. In recent years, in most of our 
SGRE business area 's markets, governments have reduced or withdrawn direct subsidies for wind power, 
or they were replaced by market -based auction models. Similar support schemes could be significantly 
reduced or phased out entirely in other jurisdictions in the  future.  
Further, the expansion of renewables also relies on adequate development in adjacent areas such as 
national infrastructure (such as transmission networks) (see also " 6.3 The markets in which we and our 
customers operate are subject to several regulatory requirements which are subject to change."). In 
addition, demand for wind power equipment is affected by the cost of wind -generated electricity 
compared to t he cost of electricity generated from other sources of energy. In various markets we have 
observed a diversification of energy sources, resulting in multiple competing sources. The 
competitiveness of wind power technology compared to other renewable and co nventional power 
generation technologies might deteriorate due to technological advances, declining carbon prices or 
declining fossil commodity prices.  
With regard to competition in the wind power industry market of the SGRE  business area , see also 
"2.1 Competition and lower market prices could negatively affect our business, financial position and 
results of operations."  
If the SGRE business area fails to navigate these structural market changes, this could have a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations . 
2.8 We are dependent on good relationships with our workforce. Strikes or other labor -related 
conflicts as well as rising wages or indirect labor costs could have a material adverse effect 
on our business.  
Personnel expenses represent a significant cost factor for the Group. Most of our staff at the German 
locations, and to a lesser extent elsewhere in the world, is co vered by collective bargaining agreements. 
There is no assurance that when existing collective bargaining agreements expire, new agreements will 
be concluded on terms that are satisfactory to us. It also cannot be ruled out that agreements will only be 
reached following strikes, work stoppage, lockout or other industrial action. Strikes and disputes with 
 
- 9 - 
 unions and works councils may result in negative media coverage and delivery problems. Any such event 
could disrupt our operations, result in an increase i n wages and other benefits or otherwise have a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Furthermore, 
efforts by works councils or and unions may divert our attention and result in increased costs. Should 
production be affected over a longer period of time by such actions, this could have a material adverse 
impact on our business, financial position and results of operations.  
The relationship with our employees may also be negatively affected by the disruptive trends in the energy 
industry that require changes in our strategy (such as our "Mistral" program or other reorganization 
programs which could also impair our ability to retain key personnel (see also " 2.6 In connection with 
existing and potential future reorganization and cost savings measures, we may incur substantial 
restructuring expenses and cash outflows. We may not be able to realize expected cost s avings or we may 
fail to adjust our organizational and manufacturing footprint in a timely manner or at all, and such 
reorganizations may not yield the targeted benefits or may damage our reputation.")).  
In our operations in emerging markets, labor costs m ay continue to increase as a result of wage inflation 
in these countries and rising unrest among low -wage workers . Indirect labor costs could increase, for 
example due to continued inflation of medical costs.  
2.9 We hold certain minority stakes in different co mpanies in which we have only limited 
influence, and whose mandatory periodic valuation may require us to recognize 
impairments.  
We hold certain minority stakes in companies, including in the context of joint ventures or other 
cooperations and partnerships . Examples include our participations in Siemens Limited, India  ("Siemens 
India "), RWG (Repair&Overhauls) Limited, UK, Maschinenfabrik Reinhausen GmbH, Germany, and 
EthosEnergy Group Limited, United Kingdom. In such cases, we have only limited influence on  the 
organization and business success of the entities and our ability to exploit the strategic potential may be 
impaired if we were unable to agree with our partners and co -shareholders on a common strategy and its 
implementation. Our interests may also c onflict with the interests of co -shareholders, and we may be 
prevented from achieving our own goals, for example due to the governance structure and contractual 
agreements. Any conflicts in relation thereto may be costly and time consuming and have a negat ive effect 
on the future performance of the Group . In case the entity underperforms, we may have to contribute 
funding to enable the continued operations or to service financial or other debts.  
Our at -equity investments must be revalued as at the respectiv e reporting dates. Any factors negatively 
influencing the financial position and results of operations of our at -equity investments and other 
investments could negatively affect the earnings contributions of such investments or may result in 
impairments. I n addition, our business situation, financial position and results of operations could also be 
adversely affected in connection with loans, guarantees or non -compliance with financial covenants 
related to these investments.  
If the Group is unable to succes sfully engage with fellow joint ventures and partners , it may not be able 
to fully realize the strategic potential of such joint ventures and partnerships and this may have a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operat ions.  
2.10 We have to consider governance rules and legal protections afforded to minority 
shareholders of SGRE S.A. as well as its independent financing activities.  
Our SGRE business area  makes a significant contribution to the performance of the Group. As we do not 
hold all shares in SGRE  S.A., governance rules as well as the legal protections afforded to minority 
shareholders may cause delays and increase the level of complexity related to the administrative 
interaction with our SGRE business area . 
If SGRE  business area 's financial position deteriorates, we may need to provide financial support to our 
SGRE  business area  with the additional risk that our claims would be subordinated  to the claims o f other 
creditors . 
 
- 10 - 
 2.11 We may fail to comply with ESG standards and expectations while, at the same time, 
compliance therewith may pose challenges to our business.  
As we aim to take a leading position in the area of sustainability in the industry, we must increasingly 
meet ESG  standards and expectations. We may not always be able to identify and adequately assess the 
relevant concerns, which may result in failure to meet changing ESG regulations, standards and 
expectations of stakeholders or the public, which could adversely impact our reputation. At the same time, 
complian ce with certain ESG standards, in particular environmental standards, may pose challenges to 
our business and lead to additional costs.  
Besides our own efforts to comply with ESG requirements, we also face other ESG related risks such as 
a risk of insuffic ient funding or procurement of other financing instruments and other financial services. 
This includes securities, hedging instruments, or insurance provided by banks, insurance companies, and 
other financial institutions for specific projects or our whole  business operations, and is driven by 
financial institutions' internal, industry -wide or policy -driven prerequisites for all dimensions of ESG. 
Examples are the 'lending criteria' of the European Investment Bank (" EIB") or the European Union's 
(the " EU") taxonomy (Regulation (EU) 2020/852 on the establishment of a framework to facilitate 
sustainable investment (the so called " EU Taxonomy ")) for sustainable activities.  
Our ability to realize projects in the energy industry, whether conventional or renewable, may be 
negatively impacted by the required adherence to ESG standards. We have been and may continue to be 
confronted with protests against our participation in fossil -based, nuclear or renewable projects from civil 
groups which, in particular i f such protests receive extensive media coverage, could have an impact on 
the willingness of important stakeholders to contribute or support such projects, which may have a 
material adverse effect on our business, financial position, reputation and results  of operations.  
3. Climate Change Risks  
3.1 The energy market is subject to disruptive developments, such as the trend towards 
decarbonization, and we may be too slow or even fail in adapting our business model and 
product portfolio.  
The products, solutions and s ervices offered by our business area s Gas Services and Transformation of 
Industry serve, to a significant extent, conventional power generation using fossil fuels. Fossil power 
generation has been under pressure in recent years due to the prevailing trend towards more sustainable 
power generation using renewable energy sources (also referred to as " renewables ") or carbon -neutral 
fuels. This trend has been exacerbated since  the Russian invasion of Ukraine which caused volatile and 
increased prices for commod ities, including conventional power generation using fossil fuels. The current 
focus on energy security and independence in light of the Russian invasion of Ukraine further intensified 
this trend.  
There is a risk that the demand for fossil power plants and  related infrastructure including highly efficient 
gas turbines will be lower than we expect due to a faster than expected transition towards renewables. An 
accelerated growth in new installations of solar and wind power due to their declining levelized co st of 
energy could result in decreasing demand for conventional power generation. Such trend towards 
renewables can vary by country or region and is impacted by several factors beyond our control, in 
particular by government intervention, public and privat e initiatives, the efficiency and cost of renewable 
energy technologies, as well as selectiveness of and restrictions for investors and lenders and changing 
consumer preferences in energy consumption. Also, a faster than expected development of competitive  
energy storage solutions could accelerate the change towards renewables.  
Furthermore, we are affected by the disruptive trend towards decarbonization of the energy market as 
decarbonization requirements might result in increased costs for the oil & gas in dustry, limited access to 
financing and could have an adverse impact on the overall demand for oil and natural gas. As a result, our 
business area s Gas Services and Transformation of Industry may be adversely affected by lower 
investment volumes. This mark et trend has a significant impact on the strategy, organizational setup and 
portfolio of the Group. Hence, it might force us to review our strategy, our organizational set -up, and 
portfolio. Also, we face the risk that the decarbonization requirements will  be driven in a much shorter 
timeframe than expected due to regulatory measures or public pressure (such as CO₂ taxes, financing 
restrictions for greenhouse gas  ("GHG ") emitting technologies  and media campaigns).  
 
- 11 - 
 These trends could result in fewer orders f or new power plants, oil & gas products or solutions, or other 
industrial applications. Consequently, our service business might suffer from fewer opportunities to 
conclude new service contracts. Also, our service backlog may be adversely affected if custo mers decide 
to decommission conventional power plants, other assets or to cancel or postpone modernizations. Our 
maintenance service business may be adversely affected through a reduced number of full -load hours of 
the conventional power plants or installe d oil & gas assets due to less dispatch and our customers could 
seek to renegotiate their long -term service contracts.  
We offer wind power applications through our SGRE business area . However, our portfolio comprises 
only limited solar power generation or other renewable technologies products. If the solar market or other 
renewable fields develop more dynamically than expected we may miss business opportunities and this 
may also have a material adverse effect on our business (see also " 2.7 The SGRE business area may not 
succeed in addressing the challenges resulting from structural market changes in the wind power 
industry ."). Furthermore, we offer customers pathways to transform their fleet of fossil fuel -based power 
generation technology into less carbon -intensive fleets. Depending on governmental policy support and 
regulatory implementation, such markets may accelerate sooner or later than we anticipate.  
In addition , the trend towards decentralization may adversely impact markets for centralized power 
generation, including gas power plants and related power grids, e.g., high -voltage substations. If we are 
too slow or if we fail to adapt our business model and our pro duct portfolio to specific regional demand 
in time or at all, this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of 
operations.  
3.2 Extreme weather conditions due to climate change may have a negative effect on our 
business . 
Extreme weather conditions as a result of climate change, such as longer and warmer seasons or extreme 
cold, could affect the operations of our customers and limit the attractiveness of our products. For 
example, increased climate change -related hazard l evels might require our customers to prepare for rising 
sea levels, higher exposure to flooding, and thunderstorms, and also adjust the location where our products 
are used and to prepare for changing environmental conditions. This could in turn lead to in creased 
complexity and sophistication of products and service which we may not be able to deliver.  
Furthermore, severe weather or other adverse conditions, such as fires, hurricanes, high winds and seas, 
blizzards and extreme temperatures may cause evacuat ion of our personnel, curtailment of services and 
suspension of operations, inability to deliver materials to job sites in accordance with contract schedules, 
loss of or damage to equipment and facilities, supply chain disruption and reduced productivity. For 
example, in 2020, as a result of a flooding incident in Guangzhou, China, we experienced a loss of 
approximately € 25 million.  
4. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations  
4.1 We are dependent on the availability of certain materials, parts and components, and any 
disruptions in the supply chain may result in additional costs or loss of revenue.  
The financial performance of our operating units depends on reliable and effective management of our 
supply and logistics chain for components, parts, ma terials and services. Capacity constraints and supply 
shortages resulting from ineffective supply and logistics chain management may lead to production 
shortages, delivery delays, additional inventory requirements and additional costs. We also rely on thir d 
parties to supply us with parts, components and services. Using third parties to manufacture, assemble 
and test the functional ity of our products may reduce our ability to influence quality assurance, delivery 
schedules and costs. Unanticipated increases  in the prices of components or raw materials as well as 
logistic costs due to market shortages or other reasons could also adversely affect performance.  
There is no assurance that we will not encounter supply problems, in particular as we face single -source 
or a small number of suppliers for critical components. This includes supplies from Siemens where any 
business or relationship interruptions could harm our operations or increase our operating costs. For 
example, Siemens supplies key components and soft ware for control systems which are used in several 
of our products and solutions and which cannot be replaced with readily available third -party components. 
In case of shortages and delays we may not be able to find alternative sources of supply at reasona ble 
costs or at all. In addition, many of the parts we require for the manufacturing of our products need to 
 
- 12 - 
 undergo a qualification process. This process may take longer than expected, for example, as a result of 
the increasing complexity of our turbine b lades, vanes and electrolyze rs. 
Furthermore, we are exposed to the risk of delays and interruptions in the supply chain because of 
catastrophic events, including adverse weather conditions, fire or pandemics or epidemics, such as 
COVID -19, as well as geopo litical events such as the Russia -Ukraine conflict. Following the initial 
outbreak of the COVID -19 pandemic in early 2020, we have faced ongoing supply chain challenges and 
disruptions. In particular , we face increased complexity in our supply chain due to  a combination of 
logistical bottlenecks, supplier capacity constraints, material and energy shortages, extended delivery 
times, especially for semiconductors and electronic products.  
In addition, cyber incidents or suppliers' financial difficulties or ins olvencies can cause supply chain 
disruptions. Interruptions in the supply chain may lead to consequential risks, which are particularly 
relevant for the execution of large projects. The need to seek alternative sources of supply may also arise 
if our compe titors acquire critical suppliers.  
The realization of any such planning miscalculations, disruptions or other unexpected developments 
within the supply chain could significantly increase costs and have a material adverse effect on our 
business, financial p osition and results of operations.  
4.2 We depend on the performance of our IT systems. In addition, our digital products and 
systems may be vulnerable to cyber -related disruptions.  
Information technologies (" IT") and operational technologies (" OT") are deeply integrated into our 
business, and we depend on their uninterrupted and efficient functioning. In addition, we rely on third -
party IT service providers, the IT/OT of our suppliers, and our vendors. In general, we observe a global 
increase of cybersecurity t hreats and higher levels of professionalism in cybercrime, which pose a risk to 
the security of products, systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our 
data and information. Our IT/OT environment could be compromised, for  example by advanced persistent 
threat attacks on our own or our service providers' networks that may also include data and information 
hosted in cloud services, and a loss of critical resources. There can be no assurance that our own or our 
IT service pro viders' measures aimed at safeguarding the uninterrupted and efficient functioning of IT 
will address these threats under all circumstances. Any severe cybersecurity incident may adversely affect 
our business operations, impact our business information (su ch as loss of intellectual property  and 
financial data), have a severe impact on our customers' production facilities, result in the non -fulfillment 
of international regulations, as well as damages to our reputation and brand.  
In addition, there is a risk that most critical information assets (such as engineering secrets, pricing lists, 
or personal information, including third -party information) may be leaked, manipulated or compromised 
in other ways, including any of the events mentioned above. This w ould adversely affect our revenue due 
to the potential loss of commercial opportunities, technological leadership, and other competitive 
advantages. Leakage or theft of information about our IP rights could affect our competitive position and 
results of op erations. If confidential or private information is compromised, we may also be subject to 
contractual penalties or claims for damages (see also " 4.3 Operational f ailures in our value chain processes 
and quality issues could negatively affect our business and reputation, and result in claims, penalties and 
additional costs."), administrative fines or other sanctions under secrecy, confidentiality, or data 
protection  laws and regulations.  
Furthermore, we sell products and systems with digital capabilities and offer digital solutions and in this 
context frequently partner with early -stage companies to provide cybersecurity offerings and may be 
exposed to risks relating  to the long -term viability of such companies, where we have sold products to 
customers with multi -year contracts. If such products, systems, and solutions are compromised or 
disrupted including due to any of the events described above, we may be held liab le by our customers for 
damages, and may also suffer damage to our reputation.  
Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, business and reputation.  
 
- 13 - 
 4.3 Operational failures in our value chain processes and quality issues could negat ively affect 
our business and reputation, and result in claims, penalties and additional costs.  
Our value chains comprise all steps in the product life cycle, from research and development to supply 
chain management, production, marketing, sales and servic es. Failures could result in quality, product 
safety or occupational safety issues. Such risks are particularly present in our engineering, production and 
manufacturing facilities, which are located all over the world and have a high degree of organization al 
and technological complexity.  
Certain products that we sold in the past had, and may in the future have, quality issues resulting from the 
design or manufacture of these products or the commissioning of these products or the software integrated 
into the m. Software quality issues may also lead to vulnerability to cyberattacks or other forms of 
disruptions ( see also " 4.2 We depend on the performance of our IT systems. In addition, our digital 
products and systems may be vulnerable to cyber -related disruptions.").  A failure or malfunction of one 
of our products may extend to other products, or may affect whole production facilities or plants. In turn, 
this could result in consequential damages exceeding the value of the product and might cause bodily 
harm. These risks are particularly relevant with regard to gas and steam turbines, generators, auxiliary 
items and compressors. In connection with the intr oduction of new technology or of main components 
for wind turbines , this risk is particularly pronounced. For example, quality problems could affect an 
entire product line of turbines which may already be installed or planned to be installed at customer si tes. 
This could result in, e.g., a shutdown of power plants, delays in project commissioning, significant costs 
for solving the quality problem and replacing or repairing defect parts. For instance, negative 
developments of failure rates in specific compon ents of the SGRE  business area 's installed fleet have 
resulted and might further result in significant warranty and maintenance costs.  
If we fail to meet specifications, technical requirements or guarantees for our products, solutions or 
services, we may i ncur additional costs and face claims for specific performance and damages. Any such 
cases could, in addition, have particularly detrimental consequences for our reputation.  
Depending on our footprint strategy, we may also face quality issues due to outsou rcing of the production 
of key components, and there may be cases in which our suppliers do not comply with our technical 
specifications or quality management systems. There is no guarantee that our quality assurance measures 
will be effective enough to de tect and adequately respond to every quality assurance issue in a timely 
manner or at all. This is particularly relevant in relation to new technologies, which are typically in an 
early phase of implementation and, because operational data is rare, whose l ifetime cannot be reliably 
predicted. Even if quality assurance measures work as intended, responding to quality issues may result 
in significant additional costs if quality issues arise that affect the installed fleet or sold new units of a 
product line. For example, as reliability of rotating equipment is particularly critical, any quality issue 
arising in connection with our rotating equipment could have significant effects on electricity generation 
and oil  & gas production or processing, result in perso nal injury, property damage and environmental 
impairments, and lead to claims for damages. Specifically, if we have to issue product warnings or similar 
communication this could also negatively affect our reputation.  
If the Group were to be subject to any claims, liabilities, fines or other adverse actions by customers or 
governments ( e.g., claims based on warranty, guarantee or product liability), this could expose us to 
reputational damage, significant additional costs and negatively affect the performanc e of new projects 
and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.  
4.4 Our project business is subject to several risks, including execution risks, cost overruns, 
quality and political risks.  
We regularly engage in large and complex projects , including  full turnkey delivery projects that may be 
worth, or even exceed the value of, several hundred million euros and whose execution may take several 
years. Some of these contracts are inherently risky because we may assume substantially all risks 
associated with completing a project and meeting post -completion warranty obligations. This is 
particularly true in projects with untested or new technology that have never been executed before, or 
when we bid for projects in countries where we have no or only limited experience from previous projects.  
In certain cases, we bear the risk of unanticipated project -related changes in critical personnel, quality 
problems, significant market price fluctuations (such a s for material and transportation) (which, for 
example, resulted in significant non -conformance costs in the fiscal year  ended September 30,  2022), 
 
- 14 - 
 financial difficulties of our customers and/or partners, cost overruns or contractual penalties caused by 
unexpected technical problems, unforeseen developments at the project sites, unforeseen changes or 
difficulties in the regulatory or geopolitical environment, performance problems with suppliers, 
contractors and consortium partners, or logistical difficultie s. For example, when executing large projects, 
we are often required to form a consortium with other parties and customers regularly require that we 
accept joint and several liability for our consortium partners. Should such partners fail to deliver on the ir 
part of the project, we could be held liable for expenses or other costs, including damages.  
Some of our multi -year contracts also contain demanding installation and maintenance requirements in 
addition to other performance criteria relating to timing, unit cost and compliance with government 
regulations, which, if not satisfied, could subject us to substantial contractual penalties, damages, non -
payment and contract interruption, suspension, or termination. There can be no assurance that contracts 
and p rojects, in particular those with long -term duration and fixed -priced calculation, can be completed 
profitably. Where projects fail or are delayed, we may face claims for penalties or damages from our 
partners or customers. In the case of transmission proj ects, customers may have to pay penalties or 
damages to power plant operators for delays or interruptions of grid connections and seek to recoup such 
damage payment from us. In power plant projects, damages to power plant operators due to delays may 
also i nclude penalties or damages from regulators, investors, or customers, with whom operators have 
signed power purchase agreements.  
When developing new projects, we regularly incur upfront investments that may be lost if the project does 
not materialize as pl anned or at all. In order to successfully develop new projects, we require project 
development and investments specialists whose internal training is time -consuming, while experienced 
experts are in short supply on the labor market.  
The materialization of any such project -specific risks, planning miscalculations or other unexpected 
delays or disruptions could lead to significant increases in project costs, negatively affect the performance 
of projects and could have a material adverse effect on our business , financial position, and results of 
operations.  
4.5 We are subject to environmental, health and safety as well as other regulatory requirements 
and risks, as a result of which we may incur significant costs, liabilities and obligations.  
The majority of the in dustries in which we operate are highly regulated and as a business we have to 
adhere to stringent environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations, not only in 
our production facilities but also, among others, on project sites and at customer locations. For example, 
certain of our, or our suppliers', production processes require, and certain of our products contain, 
chemicals or other substances which are subject to various laws and regulations. Current and future 
environmental, health  and safety (" EHS ") laws and regulations, or changes thereto, may require us to 
change the way we run our operations and could result in significant increases in our operating or 
production costs. Furthermore, due to the high risk potential of some of our work profiles we see the risk 
of potential incidents as well as potential non -compliance with EHS regulations affecting Siemens Energy 
and our contractors, resulting for example in serious injuries, penalties, loss of reputation , internal or 
external inves tigations as well as project delays. Especially in emerging market environments with a less 
mature culture in relation to EHS there may be a risk of serious and/or fatal accidents.  
While we have procedures in place to ensure compliance with applicable gove rnmental regulations in the 
conduct of our business operations, violations of applicable governmental regulations either by us or by 
third parties that we contract with, including consortium partners, suppliers or service providers whose 
activities may be attributed to us, may not be fully excluded. Any such violations particularly expose us 
to the risk of liability, penalties, fines, reputational damage or loss of licenses or permits that are important 
to our business operations. We could also face liabili ty for damage or remediation for environmental 
contamination at the facilities we own, lease, build or operate. This risk is further exacerbated by the fact 
that much of the real estate used by Siemens Energy was acquired when such real estate had already been 
in industrial use. Siemens Energy cannot guarantee that such real estate was always operated in line with 
EHS regulations, but may, nevertheless, be held responsible for the consequences of a failure to do so. 
With regard to certain environmental risk s, we maintain liability insurance. We may incur environmental 
losses beyond the insurance limits, or outside the coverage, of such insurance, and such losses may have 
a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.  Risks in relation to 
EHS may be exacerbated in cases where we are, either due to a lack of adequate and experienced 
contractors, preferences by our consortium partners or customers for specific contractors, forced to work 
 
- 15 - 
 with contractors with no or inade quate EHS experience on construction sites. In such cases, we may not 
be able to uphold our own EHS standard approach and practices. Furthermore, we may have to allocate 
additional resources or incur additional costs to align our EHS standard approach and practices with that 
of our contractors.  
Furthermore, due to our global operations, we have a large number of employees in many different 
jurisdictions with different, sometimes conflicting, EHS standards, which makes compliance with these 
standards more complex. Furthermore, it cannot be excluded that in individual cases, certain employees 
may have insufficient knowledge about binding international and local requirements in this field. We may 
also be inadequately prepared to respond to unex pected regulatory enforcement actions. Increasingly, 
compliance and enforcement of EHS standard is becoming part of financing terms for projects, and we 
may fail to accurately interpret and apply these standards, which may jeopardize the financing of our 
projects.  
4.6 We may be unable to hire or retain qualified staff and the current number of staff may be 
insufficient to adequately address the challenges we face.  
Our success depends on the knowledge, skill and industry experience of the members of the executiv e 
board ( Vorstand ) of the Company (the " Executive  Board ") and other key members of management. We 
also rely on several key experts without management responsibilities. Competition for diverse and highly 
qualified and talented personnel remains intense in t he industries and regions in which we operate. We 
have an ongoing need for highly skilled employees and a need to enhance the diversity of our workforce. 
Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to identify, assess  and hire qualified per sonnel 
(such as engineers  and digital talents). Our conventional energy activities may reduce our appeal to the 
personnel we seek to hire. We also need to integrate hired personnel and develop and retain our workforce.  
In connection with reorganization mea sures (such as in relation to the ongoing integration of 
SGRE  Group ), we may face a particularly high risk of losing key personnel and their know -how to 
competitors due to the uncertainties perceived by individuals affected by  such plans and the potential 
perception in the marketplace that we are  no longer regarded as a desired employer.  
4.7 Local content and local standard requirements may negatively impact our business and 
place additional strains on our operations. Non -compliance may result in claims for 
penalties, damages or in termination of contracts.  
Some countries, e.g., Australia, Brazil, China, India  and Saudi Arabia, prescribe minimum local content 
requirements, i.e., a proof of local value creation, for example to obtain project financing. Such legis lation 
may require us to purchase from local suppliers, recruit local staff, including executive staff, set up local 
manufacturing facilities, or otherwise make direct investments in the relevant market. As a large portion 
of the world's oil and gas reserv es are controlled by state -owned oil companies , these may require us to 
meet local content requirements or other local standards, such as conducting our operations through joint 
ventures with local partners, which could be difficult or undesirable for us. Similar obligations may be 
imposed on us by sta te-owned or state -affiliated energy companies outside of the oil sector.  
We could also be forced to transfer business or technology into local majority holdings in order to access 
certain markets. A failure to meet local content requirements and other loca l standards may adversely 
impact our operations in such countries. This may result in inefficiencies, higher risks resulting from 
increased complexities, lack of transparency, claims for penalties or damages or in termination of 
contracts or reduced profit ability. If we have to work with local suppliers or other contractors, we may 
have difficulties ensuring proper production quality, e.g., due to limited choice of contractors, a preferred 
vendor list or contractual stipulations. If we are unable to identif y suitable local suppliers or agree on 
commercially reasonable terms, we may fail to meet applicable local content requirements. This could in 
turn impair our ability to enter  new markets or to retain our competitive position. Any unforeseen change 
or rein forcements of local content or local standard requirements may result in additional costs or 
investment requirements in order to comply with such regulations.  
If additional local content and local standard regulations are implemented, or if existing regula tions are 
enhanced, or if we fail to comply with the regulations, this could increase the Group's costs and have a 
material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations.  
 
- 16 - 
 5. Financial Risks  
5.1 We are exposed to risks related to a downgrade in our  credit rating as a result of adverse 
financial performance.  
We are exposed to the risk of an adverse financial performance that is not commensurate with key 
financial ratios and profit  margin needed to maintain a "BBB" rating by Standard &  Poor's (" S&P "). 
A one notch downgrade to  the Company 's investment grade rating to "BBB -" by S&P would result in an 
increase of financing costs across the spectrum of funding mechanisms available to Siemens Energy and 
make obtaining funding in volatil e markets more challenging. This would include external bond 
issuances, an increase in the undrawn and drawn costs of a renegotiated revolving credit facility (" RCF "), 
the possibility of financial covenants being added to the key terms of the RCF, a marginal in crease in 
costs associated with hedging foreign currency exposures and an increase in the cost of bank guarantee 
facilities as well as the possibility of not being able to secure sufficient guarantee lines to meet business 
demand. A downgrade in the long -term rating would also result in a downgrade in our short -term rating 
resulting in a reduction in market capacity for Siemens Energy debt instruments. A  downgrade could also 
have an adverse effect on the Company's share price. In case of a two notch downgra de to a sub -
investment grade rating, we could face significant challenges in winning new contracts.  
5.2 Our business activities could be negatively affected if we, our customers or our suppliers 
are unable to obtain adequate financing on commercially reasonabl e terms.  
Since the energy industry is subject to considerable technological change, our future capital requirements 
for the development and industrialization of new products, acquisitions, investments and necessary 
reorganization measures may be significan t. 
Our ability to obtain financing, guarantees or hedging instruments from financial institutions on 
commercially acceptable terms, including volume and costs, could depend on several factors beyond our 
control. Besides the recently experienced increase in  market interest rates, these include , e.g. general 
economic conditions due to the ongoing pandemic, geopolitical events, global and EU monetary policy 
and financial markets regulations, industry -wide or policy -driven prerequisites in the fields of ESG, th e 
availability of credit from financial institutions, market volatility and market disruptions. Additionally, 
the deterioration in our business results, financial position or credit ratings of the Company could lead to 
higher financing and hedging costs, t o reduced availability of credit, hedging and guarantee lines, funding 
sources, reduced access to capital markets, commercially unfavorable terms or an acceleration of loans 
or the need to provide security.  
In the absence of sufficient future cash flows an d available financing and other credit lines, such as 
guarantee and hedging lines, (which could be triggered by e.g., a loss of the investment grade credit rating) 
we may not be able to adequately finance our normal business activities and to realize new i nvestments 
or acquisitions or continue our daily operations, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our 
growth prospects, our competitive position and our business, financial position and results of operations.  
Furthermore, our SGRE business  area and the other Siemens Energy Group companies are treated as a 
so-called "single borrower unit" ( Kreditnehmereinheit ) under the large loan exposures and million loans 
regulation ( Großkredit - und Millionenkreditverordnung ) for banks under the German Ba nking Act 
(Kreditwesengesetz ). Any indebtedness taken on by our SGRE business area  or by any SGRE Group 
company may, therefore, limit the ability of Siemens Energy as a whole to borrow funds or to have access 
to hedging and guarantee lines and vice versa.  
In the event of a breach of certain contractual obligations, or the non -fulfillment of a repayment obligation, 
or, via a cross -acceleration provision relating to other financial indebtedness incurred by us, exceeding a 
certain threshold amount, there is a risk that the lenders terminate certain  financing, guarantees or hedging 
instruments . In the event of such termination, the outstanding amounts would be immediately due for 
repayment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial po sition and results of 
operations.  
Our business activities could be similarly negatively affected if our customers or suppliers do not have 
access to financing on commercially reasonable terms or if they or their lenders rate our ability to execute 
capital intensive turnkey projects worse due to a deterioration of our financial position, results of 
operation or credit ratings. This risk may be further exacerbated as the business activities of Siemens 
 
- 17 - 
 Energy focus exclusively on energy market segments. This r isk could be further exacerbated if Siemens 
Energy 's creditworthiness were to deteriorate. Without an investment grade rating, we could face 
significant challenges, including for financing, guarantee and hedging purposes (please also see " 5.1 We 
are exposed to risks related to a downgrade in our credit rating as a result of adverse financial 
performance. "). 
Further, development of and bidding for large projects may require co -financing arrangements for the 
respective projects, e.g., by means of providing development loans, structured debt financings and/or 
equity investments. We face the risk that we may not be able to provide such financings either directly or 
indirectly via the involvement of third parties which may negatively impact our ability to successfully bid 
for such projects.  
Siemens Energy makes use of different national ECAs, which support and prom ote national exports by 
providing risk coverage for lenders and exporters. In order to benefit from ECAs' support, we have to 
comply with their terms and conditions. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the ECA's 
cover decision may result in the loss of the respective project specific ECA cover and in combination with 
an indemnification event this could result in reclaims from the ECA or lenders. If these ECAs change 
their terms and conditions and regulations or the respective national governm ent or entities with 
regulatory power change the basis for the mode of operation of the respective ECAs, this may impact 
Siemens Energy and our customers' and lenders' ability to benefit from ECA support and could thus 
negatively impact the demand for our offerings.  
With respect to ESG, increasingly strict financial institutions' internal, industry -wide or policy -driven 
prerequisites for all dimensions of ESG may negatively impact Siemens Energy's capabilities to procure 
funding, securities, hedging instrum ents, insurance or other financial services from banks, insurance 
companies and other financial institutions. In particular, the EU Taxonomy includes an action plan for 
financing of sustainable growth, which is aimed at facilitating certain sustainable inv estments. If, based 
on such sustainability policies or other policies related to different dimensions of ESG, banks were to 
refuse to provide financing to, or issue guarantees for, Siemens Energy or ECAs providing support and 
respective risk coverage, this  could have a negative impact on the availability of attractive financing for 
Siemens Energy's business. Such policies may also limit our customers' ability to obtain attractive 
financing, which may result in a lower demand for our offering. Similarly, int ernal ESG guidelines may 
prevent certain investors from providing equity financing to us.  
Furthermore, financial institutions demand representations in financing contracts regarding compliance 
with sanctions or other export control measures. Failure to com ply with sanctions and other control 
regimes may adversely impact our financing ability. We believe these risks, including ESG risks, are 
particularly relevant with a view to our oil and gas and conventional power generation activities and will 
make the fi nancing for such projects more difficult.  
5.3 We are exposed to credit risks and may need to write off or write down receivables if our 
contractual partners are unable to meet their obligations.  
Credit risk is defined as an unexpected loss in financial instrum ents if the contractual partner fails to 
discharge its obligations in full and on time or if the value of collateral declines. We may incur losses if 
the credit quality of our contractual partners deteriorates or if they default on, or fall behind schedule  
with, their payment obligations to us. We are in particular exposed to credit risks relating to trade 
receivables arising from our ordinary course of business, i.e., trade receivables from the sale of goods and 
services. This may also be the case if we ar e unable to sell trade receivables due to a changing 
macroeconomic environment. A decision to write down or write off claims against contractual partners 
involves management judgment and review of individual receivables based on individual customer 
creditw orthiness, current economic trends and analysis of historical bad debts on a portfolio basis. The 
write -off or write -down of our receivables may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
position and results of operations.  
5.4 We are exposed to  currency fluctuation risks in various countries that could materially 
adversely affect our profitability and cause fluctuations in cash flow and reported earnings 
as well as our equity.  
Due to the global scale of our business and the high level of regiona lization of many of our businesses, 
our results of operations are affected to a significant extent by foreign exchange rate movements. There 
 
- 18 - 
 are transactional risks which arise when we and our subsidiaries execute transactions in a currency other 
than our or our subsidiary's respective functional currency. The largest project execution, engineering, 
production and research and development hubs of our business are in Germany, the U.S., the UK, Spain, 
Sweden, Denmark and China while our sales are global. This  means that while income is generated in 
various currencies, costs are predominately denominated in Euro, U.S. Dollar, Swedish Krona, British 
Pound , Danish Krona  and Chinese Yuan . 
Changes in currency exchange rates generally cannot be predicted and cannot always be hedged on 
economically reasonable terms, and there can be no assurance that our hedging strategies will always be 
successful. If we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same 
currency, our results of op erations may be impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations. In case of 
unfavourable exchange rate fluctuations, we may be able to offer our products only at comparatively 
higher prices or lower profit margins. This currency -related competitive disadva ntage can lead to a decline 
in revenue or a lower profit margin for Siemens Energy. Firm bids and offers in a currency other than the 
respective functional currency of the concerned Siemens Energy company may create a currency risk, 
which is generally not hedged. There is also the risk that currency conversion restrictions or cross -border 
money transfer prohibitions, either by administrative orders or due to banks' policies, occur that may 
prevent us from converting or transferring funds for a certain perio d of time or at all. Discrepancies 
between the maturity and cash flow profiles of hedging instruments and underlying transactions may 
result in volatility of cash flows, e.g., from cash settlements with banks when hedges expire prior to the 
underlying tran saction due to local hedge limitations, e.g., in case of non -deliverable forwards in Brazil 
and Taiwan. Any negative effects from currency exchange rate exposure could have a material adverse 
effect on our business, financial position and results of operat ions.  
We are also exposed to foreign exchange translation risks through the translation of our foreign 
subsidiaries' financial statements into the euro for the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 
Due to the foregoing, changes in exchange rates between our local currencies and the euro could lead to 
significant changes in our financial position and results of operations from period to period.  
5.5 We have assumed significant pension liabilities, and we are unwinding and establishing 
employee participa tion programs,  and the actual costs incurred in connection with the 
resulting liabilities may substantially exceed our current estimates.  
Pension benefits are granted to a large portion of the employees of Siemens Energy. These obligations 
have been groupe d in different pension plans depending on the legal, economic and tax environment of 
the relevant countries. For a major part, the pension schemes are designed as defined benefit plans, either 
funded in the form of external plan assets (so -called "pension plan assets") or unfunded. The provisions 
for pensions and similar obligations may be affected by changes in actuarial assumptions, including the 
life expectancy and the discount rates.  
Actual developments may differ from prior assumptions, e.g., due to ch anging market and economic 
conditions, and may therefore result in an increase or decrease in the actual obligations. Fluctuations in 
the financial markets or a change in the portfolio mix of plan assets may result in a significant increase or 
decrease in the fair value attributable to plan assets over time. Also, changes in the valuation assumptions 
of pension obligations can affect the defined benefit obligation. For example, a change in discount rates, 
in particular, may result in changes in the defined benefit obligation. A half -percentage -point increase in 
the applied discount rates would have led to a decrease in the defined benefit obligations of € 128 million 
as of September 30, 2022. A reduction of a half-percentage -point of the applied discount rat es would have 
led to an increase of the defined benefit obligation of € 141 million as of September 30, 2022.  
As of December 31, 2022, we had defined benefit obligations of € 2,738 million. The fair value of plan 
assets amounted to € 2,307 million. Includi ng the increasing effect of asset ceiling of € 31 million, this 
led to a net defined benefit liability of € 462 million as of December 31, 2022. As of December 31,  2022, 
provisions for pensions and similar obligations in our statements of financial positio n amounted to 
€ 545 million. Plans with net assets were recognized in other assets with an amount of € 83 million as of 
December 31, 2022. A significant increase in the underfunding may have a negative effect on our capital 
structure, rating, refinancing and costs.  
Furthermore, if the legal conditions governing our pension obligations are subject to changes in relevant 
legislation, we may incur new or more extensive pension obligations in the future We may face the risk 
of increasing cash outfl ows if local pension regulations require higher funding levels or change otherwise.  
 
- 19 - 
 5.6 Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets, 
which could be significantly reduced if we had to recognize impairments.  
A signifi cant share of our total assets as presented in our consolidated statements of financial position 
reflects the carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets. As of September 30, 2022, the 
carrying amount  of goodwill amounted to € 10,456 million, or 20% of our total assets as presented in our 
Statements of Financial Position. Other intangible assets also represent a significant share of total assets. 
As of September 30, 2022, the carrying amount  of other intangible assets amounted to € 3,592 millio n, or 
7% of our total assets as presented in our Statements of Financial Position. An impairment loss is the 
amount by which the carrying amount of an asset or a cash -generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount 
which is the higher of the fair value less  cost of disposal and the value in use. Certain factors, including 
deterioration in earnings or failure to achieve mid -term margin targets, changes in valuation parameters, 
adverse market conditions and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, ma y cause impairment 
losses on goodwill and other intangible assets if they have a lasting negative impact on our business. The 
amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to our results of 
operations. Therefore, we may not r ealize the full value of our goodwill or other intangible assets. Any 
determination of impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could have a material adverse effect 
on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and, in addition, may  significantly deteriorate 
the confidence of important stakeholders.  
5.7 We may have to write down inventories or other assets, which could adversely affect our 
financial position and result in loss of profitability.  
We may have built up, or in the future may build up, inventories (both "work -in-progress" and finished 
goods) that cannot be sold or only sold at lower -than-calculated prices, either because there is insufficient 
demand from the market ( e.g., due to an overall economic recession or technological ob solescence  and 
innovation ) or intense competition. This may require us to write down the carrying amount  of such 
inventory, negatively impacting our profit and financial position.  
6. Compliance, Regulatory, Legal and Tax Risks  
6.1 Our operations are subject to tr ade and economic sanctions.  
Our business must be conducted in compliance with applicable economic and trade sanctions laws and 
regulations, such as those administered and enforced by the European Commission, the U.S. Department 
of Treasury's Office of Fore ign Assets Control, the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of 
Commerce, the German Bundesamt für Wirtschaft und Ausfuhrkontrolle , the United Nations Security 
Council and other relevant sanctions authorities. Past examples of sanctions adversely impacting our 
business include the interference with our business activities in Iran following the withdrawal of the U.S. 
from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action in 2018 and the impact of sanctions imposed on Russia 
following the Russian invasion of Uk raine in 2022.  
As a consequence, in March 2022 Siemens Energy decided not to enter into any new business in Russia 
and to withdraw from a large part of its activities in Russia. Even though we did not entirely terminate 
our business operations in Russia y et, the comprehensive scope of sanctions forced us to suspend the 
execution of many projects in Russia. Associated costs of separation of business operations in Russia, 
impairments or the divestment by 'ad hoc sales', for example, resulted in corresponding  negative economic 
effects. We may also be affected by countermeasures by the Russian Government and reputational risks 
due to the imposition of sanctions. For example, it has been alleged by Gazprom that the temporary 
reduction and subsequent suspension o f gas deliveries through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline was caused by 
outstanding maintenance of a gas turbine from Siemens Energy, which we dispute since we are of the 
view that all requirements for importing and commissioning the turbine in Russia have been met. 
In addition, such sanctions may impact us indirectly. For example, if our third -party service providers 
cease to render services to us in order to comply with sanctions applicable to them, banks may refuse to 
facilitate financial transactions or provi de guarantees. Additionally, banks may not provide financing to 
our customers if they are sanctioned or may become sanctioned in the future. Sanctions -related risks are 
further exacerbated by the fact that compliance with sanctions of one country may const itute a violation 
of the anti -sanction legislation of another, potentially leading to civil or even criminal liability for us or 
our representatives. For example, the European Commission has adopted anti -boycott rules forbidding 
companies from the EU to co mply with the 2018 U.S. sanctions targeting Iran.  
 
- 20 - 
 Our global operations also expose us to the risk of violating, or being accused of violating, economic and 
trade sanctions laws and regulations. In addition, rapidly changing export control rules and regula tions 
regarding business activities in critical countries, especially export control rules and regulations existing 
in the United States with extraterritorial reach, may lead to a risk of inadvertently violating specific 
countries' export control regulatio ns and laws. Our failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws 
and regulations may expose us to reputational harm as well as significant penalties, including criminal 
fines, imprisonment, civil fines, disgorgement of profits, injunctions and debarme nt from government 
contracts, as well as other remedial or punitive measures.  
For example, the investigations into a possible violation of export control laws in connection with gas 
turbines manufactured by us and, contrary to contractual agreements, alle gedly delivered to and installed 
in Crimea by a third party, resulted in negative publicity. Additionally, in 2018 the Hamburg public 
prosecutor initiated criminal proceedings against former and current Siemens AG and Siemens Energy 
employees regarding all eged violations of the German Foreign Trade and Payments Act 
(Außenwirtschaftsgesetz ). Although internal investigations have not revealed misconduct by Siemens AG 
or Siemens Energy employees, these public investigations are still ongoing and any potential outcomes 
may negatively affect us.  
If we or any party related to us is found to have acted in contravention of trade and economic sanctions, 
it would have a material adverse effect on our reputation, competitive position and, ultimately, our results 
of ope rations.  
6.2 We could become subject to fines, claims for damages or other legal consequences in 
relation to alleged or actual bribe ry, corruption, money -laundering or anti -competitive 
practices.  
Our business involves close and continuous contact with represen tatives of national governments and 
other officials, and in particular officials who are in a position of awarding government contracts and who 
therefore come within the scope of anti -bribery and anti -corruption laws, including the United States 
Foreign Co rrupt Practices Act 1977 (" FCPA "), the UK Bribery Act of 2010 and any applicable law, rule 
or regulation promulgated to implement the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in Inter national Business Transactions, 
signed December 17, 1997, and other similar laws and regulations relating to anti -corruption. We are also 
subject to anti -money laundering laws and regulations, including the EU's 5th Anti -Money Laundering 
Directive, and ant itrust laws and regulations prohibiting collusive and other anti -competitive practices. 
Some of the countries in which we operate lack a legal system that is as developed as those of other 
countries, and may be perceived to have higher levels of bribery or  corruption, including illegal 
procurement practices or anti -competitive behaviors. As we use subcontractors in many of our projects 
in such countries, we face the risk that such contractors may engage in fraudulent activity, corruption or 
bribery, or may circumvent or override our internal controls (see also " 6.4 Our risk management and 
internal controls may not prevent or detect compliance risks, which could resul t in investigations by 
authorities, fines, damage claims, payment claims, the termination of relationships with customers or 
suppliers and even governmental exclusion from businesses (blacklisting) as well as reputational damage. 
Further, our internal cont rols could fail to detect business risks in time or at all.").  
6.3 The markets in which we and our customers operate are subject to several regulatory 
requirements which are subject to change.  
As a diversified group with global businesses, we are exposed to va rious product - and country -related 
regulations, laws and policies influencing our business activities and processes and we monitor the 
political and regulatory landscape in all our key markets. Since we provide products and services to 
customers that are a ctive in regulated energy markets, we are indirectly affected by the regulatory 
environment applicable to our customers. Changes in regulatory environments for us and our customers 
could adversely affect us and our customers, including by reducing demand f or our products, increasing 
costs and reducing profit.  
The regulatory environment relevant to our Gas Services and Transformation of Industry business areas  
is undergoing significant chang e, in particular due to increased government intervention to limit climate 
change by shifting energy production towards the use of more sustainable sources, primarily renewables, 
and reducing emissions. On a country -by-country basis, the pace of this change varies, making our, and 
our customers', reg ulatory environment more complex and increasing uncertainty about the extent of 
 
- 21 - 
 future regulations and policies. Such changes could lead to certain of our or our customers' products, 
solutions and services becoming, subject to gradual phase -outs, unlawful if we fail to adapt to such 
changes, or becoming uneconomical. For example, in January 2020, Germany decided to accelerate the 
phase -out of coal as a source for primary energy generation. This decision may impact our service 
business for steam power plants  or may increase public pressure to adapt related businesses. 
Further  countries in Europe and around the world have decided to exit coal power generation between 
2025 and 2040 while others have decided to stop building new coal power plants beyond such pla nts 
already in construction, such as Poland. Moreover, more stringent emission thresholds, increased or 
additional carbon pricing regulation or the discontinuance or reduction of current promotions schemes, 
among other factors, may make certain forms of fo ssil power production less profitable. It cannot be ruled 
out that similar interventions may affect other units of our Gas Services business area. For our Gas 
Services business area , the business prospects may be negatively impacted by the introduction of new 
taxes on fossil fuels. Conversely, if government interventions or regulations promoting hydrogen use 
(directly or indirectly) do not materialize as expected, the business prospects of our Transformation of 
Industry b usiness area may be negatively impac ted. 
The business of our Grid Technologies business area may be impacted by future EU legislation limiting 
or banning the use of SF 6 (sulfur hexafluoride) in gas -insulated switchgear. SF6-based gas -insulated 
switchgear contribute s a significant portion of our Grid Technologies  business area 's revenue and profit, 
and there can be no assurance that our alternative solution is viable in the European market (see also 
"2.2 We may be unable to successfully develop and launch competitive products, services and solutions, 
and our research and development efforts may be unsuccessful. Furthermore, the pace of technological 
change may result in the economic life cycle of certai n of our products being shorter than anticipated."). 
A ban of SF6 in the EU would also force us to shift production sites outside Europe to serve the 
unrestricted world market, which may adversely affect our reputation. In addition, the potential 
developme nt and certification of further SF6-free products and manufacturing of a parallel product line 
would require the dedication of  significant resources. Furthermore, demand for our Grid Technologies 
business area's products may suffer if the competent authori ties decide to reduce the fees grid operators 
may charge under applicable network regulations. In addition, ongoing grid expansion projects may face 
resistance and be subject to legal actions seeking to stop or delay the completion of one or more projects 
and may result in overcapacities (see also " 2.6 In connection with existing and potential future 
reorganization and cost savings measures, we may incur substantial restructuring expenses and cash 
outflows. We may not be able to realize expected cost savings or we may fail to adjust our organizational 
and manufacturing footprint in a timely manner or at all, and such reorganizations may not yield the 
targeted benefits or may damage our reputation."). Our Grid Technologies business area is particularly 
sensitive to changes and the increase in standardizat ion requirements concerning networks, which may 
result in costly design changes and additional testing efforts. Should we be unable to implement the 
required changes to our products and solutions in a timely manner, we risk losing market access in the 
affected business area s. 
Our SGRE business area  faces risks regarding the demand for its wind turbines due to regulatory and 
policy changes in many jurisdictions. Although the general perception is that the decarbonization trend 
will have a positive effect on the electricity production from renewables, including wind energy, 
developers of wind power plants are dealing with the risk of industry -specific policy changes and 
increasing regulation and, in part, activism, mostly in the form of demonstrations and prot ests, by local 
population s. These policy changes and regulations could be due to renewable energy targets, 
environmental considerations ( e.g., noise, minimum distances to populated areas, bird protection), or 
technical requirements ( e.g., regulations for g rid connections), but may also result from other factors such 
as the access to land for project development, the overall permission process or subsidy rules. Such 
measures could significantly hinder the growth of the onshore and offshore wind turbine marke t. 
Our SGRE business area  may also face local content requirements , which may adversely impact our 
operations in certain countries if such requirements were not met. In addition, various state support 
measures, such as fixed feed -in tariffs and tax breaks,  to promote the wind energy market will be reduced 
or phased out, which may reduce the SGRE  business area 's sales prices, revenue and profitability.  
In addition, the requirements for obtaining export credit insurances are becoming increasingly stringent, 
which may negatively affect Siemens Energy's export business if such insurances cannot be obtained or 
can only be obtained at an additional cost. This is particularly relevant for coal -fired power plants.  
 
- 22 - 
 If there is a substantial adverse development in the regulatory and policy framework, this could increase 
the costs and decrease future customer demand and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on 
our competitive position and our business, financial position and results of op erations.  
6.4 Our risk management and internal controls may not prevent or detect compliance risks, 
which could result in investigations by authorities, fines, damage claims, payment claims, 
the termination of relationships with customers or suppliers and even  governmental 
exclusion from businesses (blacklisting) as well as reputational damage. Further, our 
internal controls could fail to detect business risks in time or at all.  
We operate in numerous countries with approximately 92,000  employees (in the fiscal  year ended 
September 30, 2022, average s, based on headcount), including certain countries with less stable political, 
legal and regulatory regimes as well as inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations. In addition, 
some of our customers and supplier s operate in countries , which have business environments, legal 
systems as well as political and cultural influences different from those which prevail in Western Europe. 
We have only limited influence over the day -to-day operations of our customers, suppl iers and other 
partners. Although it is part of our policies and procedures  to ask our customers regarding the use of our 
products, we have  no control over  how our customers actually use the products we supply. All these 
circumstances create a n inherent  risk that applicable legislation and regulations may be breached.  
We have implemented a compliance system and organization, have established a code of conduct and 
provid e regular training in order to ensure compliance with applicable laws, e.g., anti -corrupt ion, anti -
bribery, antitrust, fair competition, anti -money laundering, data privacy, human rights, sanctions and other 
forms of export control regimes, including customs regulations and other legislation such as data 
protection regulations, regulatory secu rity requirements or capital markets laws. Nevertheless, our 
existing compliance processes, systems and controls may not be sufficient and our employees, customers, 
suppliers and other partners may not act in compliance with applicable statutory provisions  and internal 
guidelines or policies and procedures, for example, in relation to procurement, production, proposals and 
sales. In particular, our projects are often undertaken in high -risk countries where we are required to work 
with local project partners , subcontractors or suppliers, which we may not always be able to fully assess . 
With regard to sanctions and other export control regimes, sanctioned parties may be indirectly involved, 
making it difficult to detect their involvement. The high pressure ari sing from a fast changing, more 
complex and aggressive business environment and aggressive target setting may foster non -compliant 
behavior of our employees. Our compliance system and monitoring capabilities may not be sufficient to 
promptly detect current  compliance issues, identify past violations or prevent damage from fraud or 
similar crimes in the Group, as has happened in the past in individual cases. Furthermore, changes in 
applicable laws and regulations, new guidance by competent authorities or int erpretations of laws and 
regulations by the courts pose additional challenges for our compliance systems.  
Siemens Energy is required to comply with the provisions of the new German Supply Chain Due 
Diligence Act ( Lieferkettensorgfaltspflichtengesetz , "LkSG "), which entered into force on 
January  1, 2023. Although Siemens Energy has taken necessary precautions to comply with this 
legislation , it cannot be ruled out that the scope of these obligations will be interpreted differently by 
courts and/or that Sieme ns Energy may not fully comply with its obligations under the LkSG. This could 
result in , among other things,  fines being imposed on Siemens Energy or its subsidiaries. In addition, 
Siemens Energy or its subsidiaries may be forced to terminate supplier relationships in order to comply 
with obligations under the LkSG and materials and/or intermediate products from  alternate sources may 
only be available at higher prices or in insufficient quantities.  
The implementation of the upcoming supply chain law at EU level may also have negative effects. The 
current proposal aims to require companies to carefully manage soci al and environmental impacts 
throughout their supply chain, including their own operations, and go beyond cross -sectoral legislation 
such as the French Duty of Vigilance Act and the LkSG.  
Proceedings against us or our business partners regarding allegation s of corruption, antitrust violations, 
and other violations of law may lead to fines as well as penalties, sanctions, injunctions against future 
conduct, profit disgorgements, disqualifications from directly and indirectly engaging in certain types of 
business, the loss of business licenses or permits, other restrictions and legal consequences. Siemens 
Energy conducts a large share of its business with governments and government -owned enterprises. We 
also participate in a number of projects funded by govern ment agencies and intergovernmental and 
supranational organizations, such as multilateral development banks. Ongoing or potential future 
 
- 23 - 
 investigations into allegations of corruption, antitrust violations, or other violations of law could also 
impair relat ionships with such parties or could result in our exclusion from public contracts. Such 
investigations may also adversely affect existing private business relationships and our ability to pursue 
potentially important strategic projects and transactions, su ch as strategic alliances, joint ventures or other 
business alliances. Third parties, including our competitors, could further initiate significant litigation. 
Furthermore, we might be exposed to compliance risks in relation to recently acquired operations  that are 
in the process of integration.  
Furthermore, while we have established an internal control system based on internationally recognized 
industry standards, designed to help us achieve important business objectives and sustain and improve 
business pe rformance, there can be no assurance that this system will effectively detect business risks in 
time or in all cases.  
If our risk management or internal controls are not successful at preventing or detecting such risks, we 
may be liable for fines, damage c laims, payment claims and may suffer reputational damage and the 
termination of relationships with customers or suppliers, each of which could have a material adverse 
effect on our reputation, competitive position and our business, financial position and r esults of 
operations.  
6.5 We are subject to risks arising from disputes and administrative, legal and arbitration 
proceedings , which could result in penalties, damages and loss of reputation.  
Siemens Energy is, and potentially will be in the future, involved i n several administrative, legal and 
arbitration proceedings in various jurisdictions. Such proceedings may, among others, relate to claims 
from or against project partners and customers regarding delays and disruptions, non -performance as well 
as labor dis putes, antitrust issues, product liability, warranty claims, IP rights and alleged environmental 
offences. The significance and outcome of these proceedings can vary greatly, and many of these cases 
could have considerable negative consequences for us. The se proceedings could result in Siemens Energy 
being subject to, e.g., payment of contractual penalties or damages (including punitive damages), 
equitable remedies or sanctions, fines or disgorgement of profit. In individual cases, legal disputes may 
also l ead to formal or informal exclusion from tenders or the revocation or refusal to renew or grant 
business licenses or permits. Some of these legal disputes and proceedings could result in adverse 
decisions for Siemens Energy or decisions, assessments or req uirements of regulatory authorities could 
deviate from our expectations, which may have material effects on our business activities as well as our 
financial position, results of operations and cash flows. High -profile proceedings may also divert 
management  attention, result in significant litigation and arbitration costs as well as negative publicity, 
and harm our reputation. In some cases, our reputation may suffer regardless of the merits of the claim 
and the outcome of the proceedings. Although we mainta in liability insurance for certain liability risks at 
levels our management believes are appropriate and consistent with industry practice, Siemens Energy 
may incur losses relating to legal proceedings beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of its ins urance 
or exceeding any provisions made for losses related to legal proceedings.  
6.6 We may be unable to adequately protect and defend our IP and know -how or may infringe 
on third -party IP rights.  
In close alignment with the product development process, we reg ularly apply for new patents and actively 
manage our IP portfolio to maintain and enhance our technological position and to support our business. 
There can be no assurance that the steps we take to obtain, preserve and protect our IP rights will be 
adequat e. This risk is further exacerbated by the fact that we have been pursuing a more selective strategy 
in recent years when filing for new patents, which is aimed at reducing costs while at the same time 
adequately protecting our innovations.  
Our IP rights m ay fail to provide us with significant competitive advantages, particularly in foreign 
jurisdictions where we have not invested in an IP portfolio or jurisdictions that do not have strong IP 
rights or do not enforce such rights rigorously. The weakening of  protection of our trademarks, patents 
and other IP rights could also adversely affect our business. Some of our IP and know -how is not protected 
by registered IP rights, as we consider the disclosure of trade secrets connected with a registration to be 
more harmful for us than the risk of secrecy violations. Therefore, we rely on trade secret protection and 
confidentiality agreements with our employees but cannot guarantee that such measures will be effective 
to protect our know -how.  
 
- 24 - 
 We are a party to a nu mber of license agreements that afford us rights to IP that is necessary or useful to 
our business, including licenses granted by Siemens. Our success depends in part on the ability of us and 
our licensors to obtain, maintain and sufficiently enforce our I P rights, as well as licensed IP rights, we 
have commercialized. Without protection of our own  IP rights  or IP rights we have licensed from third 
parties , other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products, which could adversely 
affect  sales of our products and, ultimately, of our competitive position. Also, there can be no assurance 
that we will be able to obtain or renew from third parties the licenses to IP rights we need in the future, 
and there is no assurance that such licenses ca n be obtained on reasonable terms.  
Our products are proprietary developments, but their basic designs sometimes resemble competing 
products. Although we have implemented processes designed to prevent the infringement of third -party 
IP rights (in particular  patents, trademarks and design rights), there can be no guarantee that our 
prevention mechanisms will detect infringements in time or at all. If we infringe third -party rights, we 
may be liable for damages as well as litigation costs and may have to withd raw goods already produced 
from the market or purchase a license to use such rights.  
If protections for our IP prove inadequate, if we are unable to successfully defend and enforce our IP 
rights and confidentiality agreements, or if we infringe third -party  IP rights, this may have a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.  
6.7 Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient and insurance premiums may increase.  
We maintain insurance coverage in relation to a number of r isks associated with our business activities, 
including third -party (product) liability, environmental damage, property damage and business 
interruption, construction, transport, directors' and officers' liability, cyber and vehicle insurance. These 
insura nce policies may not cover all losses or damages resulting from the materialization of any of the 
risks. There can moreover be no assurance that our insurance providers will continue to grant coverage 
on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition , there are risks left intentionally uninsured, and 
we, therefore, have no insurance against these events. Furthermore, agreed limits and other restrictions 
(e.g., exclusions) within the insurance coverage may prove to be too low or inadequate for compensa ting 
potential damages or losses, ultimately resulting in a gap in the insurance coverage. If we sustain damages 
for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage, or if we have to pay higher insurance premiums 
or encounter restrictions on insurance  coverage, this may have a material adverse effect on our business, 
financial position and results of operations. Obtaining insurance coverage could become more costly or 
difficult given changing market conditions due to high profile cases in the recent pa st and the economic 
downturn.  
6.8 Our tax burden could increase due to changes in tax laws and regulations or their 
application or interpretation, as a result of current or future tax audits, or transfer pricing 
adjustments.  
We operate in nearly all countries of the world and therefore are subject to many different tax regulations. 
Our tax burden could increase due to changes in tax laws or their application or interpretation, or as a 
result of current or future tax audits. Changes in tax laws or regulations, t ax treaties or any change in 
position by the relevant authorities regarding the application, administration and interpretation (including 
any form of administrative guidance or through the interpretation by courts) in any applicable jurisdiction, 
could res ult in higher tax expenses and increased tax payments (prospectively or retrospectively). 
These  changes include the introduction of a global minimum tax at a rate of 15% under the Two -Pillar 
Solution to Address the Tax Challenges of the Digitalization of t he Economy, agreed upon by over 130 
jurisdictions under the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)/G20 Inclusive 
Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) and the related developments in respect of 
implementation of such ag reements in relevant tax laws and regulations, including Directive 
2022/2523/EU. Furthermore, these changes could particularly impact our tax receivables and tax 
liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. In addition, the unce rtain legal 
environment in some regions could limit our ability to enforce our rights. As a globally operating 
organization, we conduct business in countries subject to complex tax rules, which may be interpreted in 
different ways. Any changes in fiscal re gulations or in the interpretation of tax laws by the courts as well 
as future changes in interpretations or developments of tax regimes by the tax authorities may also have 
a material adverse effect on our business situation, financial condition, cash flo ws and results of 
operations.  
 
- 25 - 
 We are regularly audited by tax authorities in various jurisdictions, and we continuously identify and 
assess relevant risks, and an assessment of the relevant tax authorities could lead to additional tax burdens 
(including in terest and penalty payments) or other detrimental consequences. The Company as well as 
the German and other foreign subsidiaries belonging to the Siemens Energy Group are or will likely be 
subject to tax audits by the respective tax authorities on a regula r basis. Furthermore, some of the Siemens 
Energy Group entities are involved in pending tax disputes with local tax authorities in several 
jurisdictions. While we believe our interpretations of tax laws and our estimates are reasonable and while 
no signifi cant additional tax payments are expected to be incurred as a result of tax audits or disputes, 
material additional taxes could be imposed on our Siemens Energy Group companies exceeding the 
provisions reflected in our financial statements as a result of c urrent or future tax audits or other reviews 
by the tax authorities or tax disputes. For instance, the original treatment of a tax -relevant matter in a tax 
return, tax assessment or otherwise could later be found incorrect, the validity of our tax groups f or past 
and current periods could be challenged, and additional taxes, interest, penalty payments and/or social 
security payments could be assessed on any of our companies. Such (re -)assessment may be due to an 
interpretation or view of laws and/or facts b y tax authorities in a manner deviating from our view and 
may in particular emerge as a result of tax audits or other review actions by the relevant tax authorities or 
tax disputes pending before the tax courts. For instance, material tax disputes of Sieme ns Energy Group 
companies are pending in Brazil, Mexico, India and Israel. This could lead to a significant increase in our 
tax obligations, either as a result of the relevant tax payment being assessed directly against us or as the 
result of us becoming l iable for the relevant tax as a secondary obligor due to the primary obligor's (such 
as, for example, an employee) failure to pay. Some companies of the Siemens Energy Group have been 
and are still significantly benefitting from a preferential tax treatmen t, such as the preferential tax status 
of certain of our Chinese subsidiaries which, under Chinese tax law, are classified as "high and new 
technology enterprise s" (HNTE) and thus are eligible for a lower income tax rate. If a preferential tax 
treatment wa s denied with retroactive effect or is no longer granted in the future, this would have an 
adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.  
As a large corporate group with subsidiaries and business activities in various jurisdictions , we are 
continuously implementing restructuring and consolidation measures and regularly engage in acquisition 
transactions. Such activities can result in an additional tax burden, including in relation to  income taxes, 
VAT, stamp duties or de -grouping charge s, or a different valuation of the transferred assets, or that loss -
carry -forwards will be utilized as a consequence of such measures which could result in a reduction of 
deferred tax assets. It also cannot be ruled out that the envisaged tax treatment of such measures will be 
challenged by the tax authorities retrospectively. Furthermore, such effects can also follow from further 
integration measures relating to the SGRE Group following the recent conclusion of the public take -over 
offer by SE Global GmbH & Co. KG for the outstanding shares in SGRE  S.A. 
Because we operate in numerous jurisdictions, we are exposed to tax risks, in particular with regard to 
the so -called "transfer pricing" rules that apply in several jurisdictions and in relation to cross -border 
business relationships. Pursuant to such rules, related enterprises are obligated to conduct any inter -
company transactions per conditions which would also apply among unrelated third parties concluding 
comparable agreements (so -called "at arm's length  principle") and to provide sufficient documentation 
thereof, subject to the rules applicable to them in the relevant jurisdiction. We have established a transfer 
pricing model aimed at being compliant with domestic and international transfer pricing regul ations and 
we constantly review and, if necessary, adjust this to legal and factual developments. However, it cannot 
be excluded that one or more foreign tax authorities might not agree with, and thus challenge, our 
implemented transfer pricing rules. The consequence might be double taxation in two or more countries, 
which could potentially only be mitigated or avoided by means of a mutual agreement procedure between 
the relevant tax authorities or certain unilateral measures. Furthermore, transfer pricing risks may increase 
in the future as intra -Group cross -border business grows or changes against the background of the 
digitalization and as the tax authorities' interpretation of the arm's length principle evolves over time. For 
example, some of our subsidi aries sell goods and/or provide services to foreign subsidiaries. These 
companies must fulfill special requirements regarding the documentation of transfer prices according to 
special tax laws, such as the German Foreign Tax Act ( Außensteuergesetz ) or simi lar applicable national 
laws and regulations regarding OECD requirements. Our documentation may be considered to be 
insufficient by the relevant tax authorities or transfer prices may be considered to be inadequate or 
inadequately justified. This may resul t in penalties and additional tax payments. Group companies could 
be involved in transactions with the existing shareholders of the Company and/or parties related to the 
existing shareholders. Such transactions, in order to be recognized for income tax pur poses, also need to 
comply with the arm's length principle. In case of any such transactions being found not to be at arm's 
 
- 26 - 
 length, this could lead to the assessment of additional taxes payable by companies of our Group and thus 
negatively affect our resul ts of operations, cash flows and financial position.  
We have taken out loans and similar instruments in connection with our business activities which require 
interest payments. For income tax purposes, the deduction of interest on loans may be restricted by the 
interest barrier rules and other rules limiting the tax deductibility of interest expenses. In Germany, 
pursuant to the German interest barrier rules, interest expenses of a business can generally be taken into 
account in a tax -reducing manner in the amount of the interest income of the same business year. If the 
balance of interest expenses and int erest income is negative, the deductibility of the interest balance is 
generally limited to 30% of the tax adjusted EBITDA. Therefore, the applicability of the interest barrier 
depends on the earnings we achieve; these earnings fluctuate and therefore cann ot be predicted with any 
certainty. Under the European Anti Tax Avoidance Directive (ATAD) rules limiting the tax deductibility 
of interest expenses modelled after the described German interest barrier rules have become mandatory 
for the member states incl uding the ones we operate in and similar rules exist in other jurisdictions across 
the world, in particular in the United States. If we are increasingly affected by the applicability of these 
regulations in the future, this would result in a higher tax bur den and would in turn have adverse effects 
on our results of operation, cash flows and financial position.  
6.9 Our tax burden could increase due to limited offsetting capabilities or the forfeiture of 
unutilized tax loss carry forwards , interest carry forwards  and other tax credits . 
Several companies of the Siemens Energy Group have considerable tax loss carry forwards, some of 
which have been capitalized as deferred tax assets in the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal 
year ended September 30, 2022.  
The utilization of tax loss carry forwards, however, may be restricted under applicable tax laws, for 
instance, if they cannot be carried forward indefinitely or if they were forfeit ed upon occurrence of certain 
events (e.g., a d irect or indirect transfer of shares or a change of control). If tax loss carry forwards can 
no longer be set -off against future taxable profits, this would generally increase our future tax burden. In 
addition, any such restriction may require a write -down of the deferred tax assets in our consolidated 
financial statements. This would negatively affect our financial position and results of operations.  
Recognition and valuation of deferred tax assets may also be affected by changes in the income situation 
of companies. In particular, for certain companies in Germany, Spain and the United States , the realization 
of the deferred tax assets is dependent on increased  future profitability. Indirect tax credits, in particular 
in India and Brazil, may only be utili zed if sufficient business will be generated in the future.  
In Germany, unutilized losses for corporate income tax, trade tax and interest carry forwards are forfeited 
in full if , within a period of five years more than 50% of a corporation's registered sh are capital or voting 
rights are directly or indirectly transferred to an acquiring party, affiliated individuals/entities or a group 
of acquirers with aligned interests, or a comparable change of ownership in the corporation occurs 
(harmful acquisition – schädlicher Beteiligungserwerb ). The foregoing forfeiture rules are, however, 
subject to certain exceptions, e.g., losses and interest carry forwards may be preserved to the extent the 
losses and interest carry forwards do not exceed the taxable hidden res erves in Germany. Unutilized losses 
for trade tax of a partnership are in general forfeited to the extent a direct change of ownership occurs at 
the level of the partnership.  
German loss and interest carry forwards of SE Global GmbH & Co. KG or any of its German subsidiaries 
could have been fully or partially forfeited under the above rules due to certain restructuring and 
consolidation measures including transactions in  the course of the separation from Siemens Group in the 
fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 such as the spin -off of a limited partnership interest 
(Kommanditanteil ) in SE Global GmbH & Co. KG, and the contribution of a limited partnership interest 
(Kommanditanteil ) in SE Global GmbH & Co. KG into the Company as well as the recent public take -
over of the outstanding shares in SGRE  S.A. by SE Global GmbH & Co. KG. Furthermore, future 
restructuring and consolidation measures as well as acquisitions (including at the level of the Company's 
shareholders) can result in a loss forfeiture.  
Comparable  rules providing for a limitation on the utilization of loss carry forwards and similar tax 
attributes also exist in other jurisdictions (for instance, in the United States). Therefore, the described 
restructuring and consolidation measures also might have  limited or excluded the utilization of such loss 
carry forwards or similar attributes of any Siemens Energy Group company that has previously been 
 
- 27 - 
 available. Similarly, any such measures as well as acquisition transactions might result in such limitations  
and exclusions  in the future . 
6.10 We depend, with respect to certain activities, on permits, licenses, approvals, certifications 
and exemptions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew all necessary 
licenses, certifications and similar per mits required for our operations in a timely manner.  
Certain of our activities depend on permits, licenses, approvals, certifications and/or exemptions in 
different jurisdictions in order to operate our business. For example, we are exposed to risks associ ated 
with approvals when building and operating production facilities and requiring certain certifications for 
our plants, which must be regularly renewed. Furthermore, our customers increasingly require that we 
obtain additional certifications in order to  consider engaging us. The necessary validation and certification 
processes are often complex, time -consuming and costly, and may be influenced by factors that are 
beyond our control. Also, occupational health and safety incidents may cause certain certifi cations to be 
suspended or revoked. In addition, relevant regulatory authorities may not grant licenses, approvals, 
certifications, exemptions and dispensations as quickly as anticipated, which may result in project delays 
or unused capacities. In addition , there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our permits, 
licenses, approvals, certifications, exemptions and dispensations upon their expiration within the required 
timeframe or at all.  
With respect to our SGRE business area , the governmental  support for the wind industry in the form of 
subsidies and similar schemes (see also " 2.7 The SGRE business area may not succeed in addressing the 
challenges resul ting from structural market changes in the wind power industry ."), and the granting of 
permits and licenses for the operation of wind power plants (including in relation to a wind power plant's 
construction, environmental impact, grid connection and feedin g-in of power) currently constitute an 
important form of governmental and administrative support for investments in the wind power industry. 
Any decrease or elimination of such (indirect) government support in any jurisdiction, including political 
or polic y changes towards the wind industry and/or in relation to the cost, timing and conditions required 
to obtain permits and licenses for wind power plants (such as statutory minimum distances between wind 
power plants and populated areas), could have a negati ve impact on the market for wind power in that 
jurisdiction and, consequently, could reduce the demand for our SGRE business area 's wind power 
equipment and its revenue from sales.  
If we are unable to secure permits, licenses, approvals, certifications and  exemptions, our activities may 
be disrupted and this could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and our business, 
financial position and results of operations.  
6.11 We are subject to risks relating to change -of-control clauses, which may result in 
termination or in renegotiation of contracts, potentially with less advantageous terms for 
us. 
Several agreements entered into by Siemens Energy contain change -of-control clauses. In case of a 
change of control, any of the parties is entitled to terminate the relevant agreement. These types of 
provisions apply to certain agreements entered into between Siemens Energy with third parties or with 
Siemens AG, including the licensing agreements pursuant to which we are entitled to use the "Siemens" 
brand (see also " 7.7 Under certain conditions, we may lose the right to use the "Siemens Energy" or 
"Siemens Gamesa" brands, which could leave us without a consistent  brand across our business activities 
or entirely without an established brand. Furthermore, Siemens could intensify competition with us, in 
particular under the "Siemens" brand, or it could allow our competitors to do so using the "Siemens" 
brand."), an a greement regarding a strategic alliance between the parties, covering also the supply of 
Siemens products to our SGRE business area . Furthermore, Siemens has a right to request the sale back 
of certain IP relating to our power plants control system SPPA -T3000 which has been transferred by 
Siemens to Siemens Energy if a third party directly or indirectly acquires control over Siemens Energy.  
Certain contracts of Siemens Energy made with consortium partners, suppliers, customers and other 
contractual partners  include change of control provisions allowing for termination, in particular if the new 
controlling party is the other party's competitor.  
Specific provisions regarding a change of control are for example contained in the IP agreement with 
Rolls -Royce plc  relating to our aero -derivative gas turbine business. According to such agreement, if a 
competitor of Rolls -Royce plc. acquires direct or indirect control of Siemens Energy (whereby the 
 
- 28 - 
 acquisition of 30% of Siemens Energy  AG's shares implies the acquisit ion of control), Siemens Energy 
is obligated to sell the aero -derivative gas turbine business to a company that is not a competitor of Rolls -
Royce within 12 months of such acquisition of control. If the business is not sold, the licenses granted by 
Rolls -Royce to Siemens Energy will be automatically terminated.  
7. Risks Related to Our Separation from the Siemens Group  
7.1 We may face difficulties in satisfying certain treasury and finance requirements as well as 
performing certain services and functions that histo rically were provided by the Siemens 
Group.  
In 2020, the Siemens Energy business was spun off from the Siemens Group by way of spin -off for 
absorption ( Abspaltung zur Aufnahme ) under the German Transformation Act ( Umwandlungsgesetz ) to 
the Company (the " Spin-Off"). Even though we operate as a separate company from Siemens Group, 
following the Spin -off we still rely on financial, administrative and other resources (such as services 
related, for example, to taxes, legal and contract management, IT, corporate communications, 
procurement, human resources, internal audit, compliance, real estate, (cyber -)security, accounting and 
financing, including treasury, guarantees, insurance and pension management) of the Siemens Group for 
a limited period of time under tra nsitional service agreements as well as under long -term service 
agreements and other individually negotiated agreements. Transitional  service agreements with Siemens 
and other agreements qualifying as related -party transactions, in particular agreements th at include 
volume commitments, bind us to Siemens during their term and may therefore limit the benefits we are 
able to realize from the separation from Siemens if prices for the procured services change in the market. 
Conversely, we agreed on a general vo lume discount for the service contracts with Siemens relating to 
the business of our former Gas and Power segment . For example, for certain specified worldwide services, 
Siemens AG shall grant a low double digit percentage discount until September 2023 . Thereafter, no 
further discounts shall be granted. For purposes of our internal planning, we have assumed to benefit from 
these volume discounts to the full extent. Accordingly, if we fail to obtain these discounts, the costs for 
services obtained by Siemen s would be significantly higher than anticipated.  
Furthermore, if, after the expiration or termination of the transitional service agreements, we fail to set up 
the relevant functions by ourselves or to replace the transitional services with third -party se rvices in a 
timely manner or on reasonable terms, we may experience operational problems, become liable towards 
third parties and incur increased costs.  
In particular, with respect to our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate 
purposes – including acquisitions, research and development and capital expenditures – the risks 
associated with fluctuations in foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, debt, guarantees, firm 
commitments and forecast transactions, as well as int erest rate change risks, credit risks associated with 
contractual partners ( e.g., banks and customers) and market price risks ( e.g., commodities or foreign 
exchange) have all historically been managed by or via the Siemens Group. Other corporate finance an d 
treasury services (including insurance and pension management services) have historically been managed 
as part of the treasury and financing policies and procedures of the Siemens Group. Our corporate finance 
and treasury functions continue to depend on the Siemens Group for certain finance and treasury IT tools . 
Upon expiration of such support service agreements (or if we decide to terminate them or they are 
terminated upon notice by Siemens), there can be no guarantee that we will be able to replace suc h tools 
in a timely and cost -efficient manner, which could negatively impact our business operations and results.  
7.2 We are subject to tax risks due to the separation from the Siemens Group.  
The separation from the Siemens Group and the grouping of activities  and assets that form part of the 
Siemens Energy Group had been implemented by way of reorganization measures under German law 
(e.g., spin -off) and comparable measures under the laws of other jurisdictions as well as certain carve -out 
measures. In the cour se of these separation measures, a multitude of assets had been transferred. 
In addition, numerous contractual intercompany relations between Siemens and Siemens Energy 
(for instance, financing arrangements) had to be terminated, sometimes prematurely and/ or against the 
payment of an arms' length termination fee. In this respect, it cannot be ruled out that the envisaged tax 
treatment of such measures will be challenged by the tax authorities and that additional taxes will be 
assessed.  
 
- 29 - 
 On May 22, 2020, Siem ens AG and Siemens Energy AG entered into a group separation agreement 
(Konzerntrennungsvertrag ) (the " Group Separation Agreement ") which governs the legal relations 
between Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG for the period after the completion of the Spin -Off. 
As required under the Group Separation Agreement ( Konzerntrennungsvertrag ) SE Global GmbH & Co. 
KG has recognized certain contributed assets at their tax book values and filed the required application 
with the competent tax office. Equally, the Company  has recognized the limited partnership interest 
(Kommanditanteil ) in SE Global GmbH & Co. KG contributed by Siemens Beteiligungen Inland GmbH 
("SBI GmbH ") at tax book value and filed the required application with the competent tax office. If the 
recogniti on of the tax book values of the assets and partnership interest were not accepted and if the 
Company violated obligations under the Group Separation Agreement, the Company could be liable 
towards Siemens AG or SBI GmbH if taxes are imposed on them or thei r loss carry forwards for corporate 
income tax purposes are reduced. The Group Separation Agreement ( Konzerntrennungsvertrag ) further 
contains provisions in relation to shares held by Siemens AG or SBI GmbH that are subject to a lock -up 
period ( sperrfristb ehaftete Anteile ) for tax purposes in connection with the separation of the Siemens 
Energy business. If a contribution gain ( Einbringungsgewinn ) is assessed, the tax consequences at the 
level of Siemens AG and SBI GmbH together with the trade tax arising a t the level of SE Global GmbH 
& Co. KG may result in a total cash -out of up to a medium three digit million euro amount. Such tax cash -
out may be compensated only partially by corresponding tax benefits, for which the cash effect may only 
arise over time. In case the Company caused such assessment of the contribution gain (e.g., by violating 
the obligation to procure that Siemens Energy entities apply for tax book values or by triggering an event 
pursuant to section 22 (1) sentence 6 of the German Transform ation Tax Act 
(Umwandlungssteuergesetz )), the Company shall compensate Siemens AG or SBI GmbH for the resulting 
tax consequences. In case such contribution gain is caused by Siemens AG or SBI GmbH, the Company 
may have a compensation claim against Siemens AG for trade tax or the reduction of trade tax loss carry -
forwards resulting therefrom, whereas such claim is generally reduced by potential tax benefits arising 
for the Company and/or SE Global GmbH & Co. KG in case of a recognition of an increase amount in 
accordance with section 23 (2) of the German Transformation Tax Act ( Umwandlungssteuergesetz ) 
("step -up"). To the extent that the potential step -up benefit exceeds the amount, which Siemens AG would 
have to pay to the Company without the deduction of th e step -up benefit, the Company is obliged to pay 
to Siemens AG an amount equal to this difference, even though the step -up benefit may not have 
materialized in a cash effect yet, but only would materialize over time. Finally, the parties of the Group 
Separ ation Agreement ( Konzerntrennungsvertrag ) shall cooperate with regard to tax matters and in case 
one party does not comply with its cooperation obligations, it has to indemnify the other party, i.e., if the 
Company is not compliant it has to indemnify Siem ens AG or the affected Siemens Group entity.  
7.3 We may lose business opportunities and face a negative perception of our stand -alone 
position following our separation from the Siemens Group. Further, as a stand -alone group, 
we may not be able to satisfy finan cial or technical requirements under public procurement 
laws.  
In the past, we benefited to some extent from the business activities of the Siemens Group, and vice versa, 
in particular regarding the sale of our transmission products by Siemens' "Smart Infra structure" segment. 
It cannot be ruled out that, following the significant reduction of Siemens' stake in the Company following 
the Spin-Off, we will no longer benefit from this cooperation as much as we used to.  
Private -sector clients or public procuremen t laws often require that a bidder demonstrates certain 
qualifications, e.g., by demonstrating that the bidder has been active with a registered local company for 
a certain number of years, sufficient capitalization, or technical qualifications, e.g., by d emonstrating a 
track record of relevant projects. Technical experience may have to be proven for up to five years and 
financial data for three years. Therefore, there may be cases where we still need Siemens as a technical 
reference. While Siemens has perm itted us using references of projects we executed as part of Siemens 
Group, there can be no assurance Siemens will cooperate in relation to such references projects or that 
public authorities will accept such references as references demonstrating our capa bilities as a stand -alone 
company.  
 
- 30 - 
 7.4 As we build our IT environment and transition our data to our own systems, we could incur 
substantial additional costs and may suffer temporarily reduced quality of IT services or 
business interruptions.  
Limited portions of our IT environment, specifically network, archiving and procurement systems, remain 
integrated within Siemens Group's IT environment until September 2023. Therefore, Siemens Group 
remains responsible for these portions until our IT environment is fully separated and we remain 
dependent on the legacy Siemens Group. We have and will continue to install and implement our own IT 
environment to support our critical business functions. We cannot exclude, though, that we may 
experience temporary interr uptions of business operations should the remaining planned transitions 
towards a separated IT environment are subject to serious complications. Should such complications 
produce severe IT service interruptions, the resulting disruptions to our business ma y also expose us to 
liabilities towards third parties, which could have adverse material effects on our business, financial 
position and results of operations.  
7.5 As a stand -alone entity, we may be unable to continue benefiting from joint purchasing and 
procu rement terms with Siemens AG in the future.  
Siemens Energy and Siemens AG entered into joint pooling agreements regarding our business area s, 
respectively. Under these agreements, Siemens AG acts for Siemens Energy on the procurement markets 
in respect of certain materials. After expiry or termination of the joint pooling agreements, we may fail 
to enter into individual agreements on similar or other favorable terms in the future, which could have a 
material adverse effect on our business, financial positio n and results of operations. Since the separation 
from Siemens, we are a smaller and less diversified company than Siemens and may be subject to higher 
pricing pressure to obtain goods, technology and services at prices and on terms as favorable as those 
available to us prior to the separation from the Siemens Group.  
7.6 In certain countries, carve -outs may be deferred or even fail or Siemens will retain parts of 
the Siemens gas and power business. In these countries, limited access to the local markets, 
establ ished facilities , research and development resources may have an adverse impact on 
our business prospects and operations. In addition, contractual agreements may require us 
to purchase the local business after termination of the contract, which may result in 
significant cash outflows.  
Following the Spin -Off and up to the date of this Prospectus , Siemens retain ed parts of the Siemens gas 
and power business in Algeria, India, Indonesia and Pakistan. In these countries and certain adjacent sales 
territories, b usiness activities are carried out by local Siemens companies under agency and 
distributorship agreements under which the local Siemens companies are mostly appointed as sole selling 
agents with exclusive selling rights for certain gas and power products. Not being able to conduct our 
own sales activities in the relevant sales territories may adversely impact our business prospects and 
results of operations. Furthermore, for Algeria, Indonesia and Pakistan, under framework agreements, we 
are required to pur chase the business from the local Siemens companies if the framework agreement is 
terminated, which could result in significant cash outflows. This risk is further exacerbated because 
Siemens could terminate the respective framework agreement before we hav e set up appropriate structure 
to acquire the respective operations.  
With the exception of one of our subsidiaries mainly active in the oil and gas compressor market, business 
activities relating to our Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of  Industry  business areas 
in India and certain adjacent sales territories (" Indian Energy Business ") are carried out under an agency 
and distributorship agreement by Siemens India, a  listed company in which Siemens holds 51% and we 
hold 24% of the shares (as of December  31, 2022). Furthermore, we have in place a shareholders' 
agreement regulating the exercise of voting rights in Siemens India and the separation of the Siemens and 
Siemens Energy business activities in certain cases. The shareholders'  agreement also details principles 
of cooperation with respect to the gas and power business in India. Such agreements entail a number of 
risks, e.g.: 
• we cannot dispose of our shares in Siemens India without Siemens' consent;  
• we have no direct or only limi ted access to the Indian market to carry out our gas and power 
business and the results of operations relating to this market will to a significant extent be 
recognized by Siemens Group and not by Siemens Energy Group;  
 
- 31 - 
 • we have no direct access to existing local manufacturing research, development and engineering 
personnel and facilities of Siemens India that were previously part of Siemens' gas and power 
engineering and manufacturing network, and are not allowed to establish new local 
manufacturing, researc h, development or engineering personnel or facilities in India without 
Siemens India's discretionary consent. Furthermore, we are obligated to make certain annual 
volume commitments and have granted certain first and last call rights to Siemens India, whic h 
may require us to favor Siemens India in respect of certain products or services over our own 
manufacturing facilities or personnel;  
• upon expiry of the shareholders' agreement, or upon its termination by either party, we are 
obliged to acquire the Indian  Energy Business at fair market value and to return our 24% share 
(as of March 31, 2023) in Siemens India to Siemens. This may lead to significant cash outflows 
if the valuation of the Indian Energy Business exceeds the valuation of our share in Siemens 
India, in which case we may, however, elect to acquire the balance of the Indian Energy Business 
that exceeds the valuation of our share in Siemens India over a period of three years. Furthermore, 
we are obliged to indemnify Siemens against adverse tax conse quences which may arise in 
connection with the termination and the resulting transfer of the Indian Energy Business which 
may constitute a significant amount, in certain events of termination, notably in the event the 
shareholders' agreement is terminated by us for convenience (which may make such termination 
unattractive to us) or in the event the shareholders' agreement is terminated by Siemens as a result 
of a third party directly or indirectly acquiring more than 25% of the shares (which may be outside 
our control) in SE Global GmbH & Co. KG.  
In addition, if certain carve -out measures were deferred or even fail, this could not only impact our ability 
to conduct business in the relevant countries but also our position as a stand -alone company. Despite the  
carve -out being effective in most countries, certain follow -up activities may be necessary to bring the 
respective local business fully into operation, such as the registration of branches or the application for 
business licenses, which may take longer th an expected, as is, amongst other countries, currently the case 
in Iraq and the United Arab Emirates / Abu Dhabi, and if such follow -up activities are deferred or fail, 
there is the risk that we either (i) are not able to conduct new local business directl y but only through 
Siemens AG against a consideration to be paid by Siemens Energy that may lead to a margin erosion or, 
if no workaround is available, (ii) will lose business opportunities. The same might be true for the 
applications for other permits or certificates.  
7.7 Under certain conditions, we may lose the right to use the "Siemens Energy" or "Siemens 
Gamesa" brands, which could leave us without a consistent brand across our business 
activities or entirely without an established brand. Furthermore, Siem ens could intensify 
competition with us, in particular under the "Siemens" brand, or it could allow our 
competitors to do so using the "Siemens" brand.  
Under a Trademark and Name Use (Sub -)License Agreements (" SE TLA ") entered into on 
March  31, 2020, betwe en Siemens AG as licensor and SE Global GmbH & Co. KG as licensee, Siemens 
AG granted Siemens Energy (excluding SGRE  Group ) the exclusive right to, among other things, use the 
combined designation "Siemens Energy" within our company name, internet and e -mail domains and the 
trademark "SIEMENS Energy" as corporate mark and as product mark (the " SE Mark ") as well as the 
non-exclusive right to use certain "Si -" product marks (the " SE Licensed  Designations "). 
Under the SE TLA, this right to use the SE Licensed Designations is generally limited to business fields 
in which the Siemens segment Gas and Power was active as of October 1, 2019 or which were defined in 
the business mandate of this segment at that time (including certain products and services that were t he 
subject of research and development activities ongoing at that time) (the " SE Current  Field "). If we enter 
business fields outside the SE Current Field, we can request Siemens AG to expand the scope, the consent 
to such request shall not be unreasonably  withheld. However, if such request is denied, we must enter 
business fields outside the SE Current Field through a separate legal entity that does not have the right to 
use the SE Licensed Designations. The SE TLA has an initial term of ten years and exte nds automatically 
unless terminated by either party. During the term of the SE TLA, except for certain limited exceptions, 
we are obligated to use the SE Licensed Designations in the SE Current Field as our master brand. 
Siemens AG has the right to termina te the SE TLA with immediate effect subject to staggered transition 
periods in a number of instances, e.g., if (i) Siemens holds less than 25% of the shares and/or voting rights 
in the Company (excluding shares directly or indirectly held by Siemens Pensio n-Trust e.V. or any other 
entity holding or managing plan assets under or in connection with Siemens Group's benefit plans), 
 
- 32 - 
 provided that such termination may become effective earliest on September 25, 2023, (ii) a substantial 
competitor of Siemens Group holds 15% or more of the shares and/or voting rights in the Company, 
(iii) another person holds 25% or more of the shares and/or voting rights in the Company, 
(iv) after unsuccessful escalation to the CEOs of Siemens Energy and Siemens, Siemens has a legit imate 
reason to believe that the reputation of "Siemens" is materially adversely affected, even where this is due 
to a situation beyond our control, (v) we fail to establish and maintain certain best industry practices as 
defined in the SE TLA, or (vi) we materially breach the SE TLA and such breach is not remedied.  
SGRE  S.A. as licensee concluded a Trademark and Name Use (Sub -)License Agreement with Siemens 
AG as licensor on May 20, 2020 (the " SGRE  TLA "). Under the SGRE TLA, Siemens AG continues to 
grant S GRE S.A. the right to, among other things, exclusively use the combined designation "Siemens 
Gamesa" as part of its company name, internet and e -mail domains, and the trademark "Siemens Gamesa" 
for new products, as well as the "SIEMENS" trademark for exist ing products of the former Siemens wind 
power business (the " SGRE  Licensed  Designations "). Under the SGRE TLA, the right to use the SGRE 
Licensed Designations is generally limited to business fields in which SGRE S.A. was active prior to its 
formation in A pril 2017 but excludes certain Gamesa Electric and Gamesa Energy Transmission products 
and services (the " SGRE  Permitted  Activities "). If SGRE S.A. enters into business fields outside of the 
SGRE Permitted Activities, it may request Siemens AG to expand th e scope, the consent to such request 
shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, if such request is denied, SGRE S.A. must enter business 
fields outside the SGRE Permitted Activities through a separate legal entity that does not have the right 
to use the SGRE Licensed Designations. The SGRE TLA has an initial term of ten years and extends 
automatically unless terminated b y either party. Siemens AG has the right to terminate the SGRE TLA 
with immediate effect subject to staggered transition periods in a number of instances, 
e.g., if (i) the SE TLA is terminated, (ii) Siemens Energy loses control over SGRE  S.A., (iii) SGRE  Group 
stops using the designation "Siemens" as part of its company name, (iv) Siemens has a legitimate reason 
to believe that the reputation of "Siemens" is materially adversely affected, even where this is due to a 
situation beyond SGRE  S.A.'s control, (v)  SGRE S.A. fails to establish and maintain certain best industry 
practices defined in the SGRE TLA, or (vi)  SGRE  S.A. materially breaches the SGRE TLA and such 
breach is not remedied.  
Any termination of the SE TLA and/or the SGRE TLA and, after the lapse o f any transition periods under 
such agreements, as the case may be, the resulting loss of the right to use the SE Licensed Designations 
and/or the SGRE Licensed Designations may leave our Group with an inconsistent branding across its 
business operations o r may force us to operate under a new brand entirely. These risks are further 
exacerbated by the fact that the SE TLA and the SGRE TLA require us to use the "Siemens" brand as our 
master brand which limits us to a large extent from establishing a brand ind ependent from "Siemens" 
while using the licensed "Siemens" brands.  
Our right to use the SE Mark is exclusive for the SE Current Field only for the combination of the 
"SIEMENS" mark with "Energy", but not for the standalone "SIEMENS" mark. SGRE  S.A.'s right  to use 
the combined designation "Siemens Gamesa" is exclusive for the SGRE Permitted Activities. However, 
there are no "non -compete" undertakings by Siemens in favor of Siemens Energy or SGRE  S.A. 
Accordingly, we are already seeing competition by Siemens which may intensify, including in areas on 
which we place strategic emphasis. Furthermore, Siemens could allow our competitors to use or it may 
compete with us, in particular under the designation and trademark "Siemens" in the SE Current Field or 
in the S GRE Permitted Activities. Any competition by Siemens or such competition by another licensee, 
in particular under the "Siemens" brand, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
position and results of operations.  
7.8 Our market perception  may be negatively influenced by Siemens Group's image.  
We use the combined "Siemens Energy" and "Siemens Gamesa" as product marks, corporate marks and 
as part of our company names, business designations and main domains to operate our business. These 
designations clearly identify us with the Siemens Group  and all companies and products operating under 
a Siemens brand , even though the Company is not a  fully  consolidated subsidiary of Siemens AG. Our 
brand perception may be influenced by adverse developments  in Siemens Group. Negative publicity or 
reputational damage of any kind or problems associated with companies of the Siemens Group, even if 
unrelated to us and our business, could have a detrimental effect on our reputation and brand and, as a 
result, a m aterial adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. This risk is 
exacerbated by the fact that we have to use the SE Licensed Designations and the SGRE Licensed 
Designations during the terms of the SE TLA and the SGRE TLA a s master brands and therefore do not 
 
- 33 - 
 have an established alternative brand we could fall back to if we terminate the SE TLA and the SGRE 
TLA in the event that the reputation of "Siemens" is materially adversely affected.  
7.9 As a legal consequence of the Spin -Off, creditors of Siemens AG may be able to enforce 
certain claims existing at the time of the Spin -Off against us, and there can be no assurance 
that we are able to obtain indemnification from Siemens AG.  
Our separation from Siemens was partly realized by  way of a spin -off under the German Transformation 
Act ( Umwandlungsgesetz ) or comparable corporate measures under the laws of other jurisdictions. Under 
relevant laws, we may be held liable by creditors of Siemens AG who may be able to enforce certain 
claims existing at the time of the Spin -Off against us. For example, in accordance with the provisions of 
the German Transformation Act, the Company is jointly and severally liable with Siemens AG for any 
liabilities of Siemens AG that were incurred prior to c ompletion of the Spin -Off if such liabilities fall due 
within five years, or in case of retirement benefit obligations under the German Company Pension Act 
(Betriebsrentengesetz ) ten years, from publication of the Spin -Off in the commercial registers of 
Siemens  AG. In the spin -off and transfer agreement concluded between Siemens AG and Siemens Energy 
AG, Siemens AG agreed to indemnify the Company  against any liabilities or obligations that remained 
with Siemens AG in the event that relevant claims are asser ted against the Company . Should Siemens AG 
not satisfy its obligations to indemnify the Company , this could have a material adverse effect on our 
business, financial condition and results of operations or prospects. Furthermore, existing creditors of 
Sieme ns AG could request the Company  to provide security to the extent such creditors cannot obtain 
satisfaction of their claims and can demonstrate probable cause that the fulfillment of their claims will be 
jeopardized by the Spin -Off. 
8. Risks Related to Our Sh areholder Structure  
Siemens AG is expected to continue to have a substantial shareholding in the Company and will be 
able to exercise a corresponding influence, and the interests of Siemens AG could come into conflict 
with the interests of other investors.  
Pursuant to the most recent voting rights announcement received by the Company , Siemens AG, SBI and 
Siemens Pension -Trust e.V. directly and/or indirectly hold 23.1%, 12.0% and 2.97%, respectively, of the 
shares in the Company. It should be noted that the notices were received pursuant to section 33 et seq . 
German Securities Trading Act ( Wertpapierhandelsgesetz ) prior to the registration of a capital increase 
on March 16, 2023, and therefore reflect Siemens AG 's direct and indire ct voting rights before dilution 
(if any).  In May 2020, the Company and Siemens AG and SBI entered into a deconsolidation agreement 
(Entherrschungsvertrag , the " Deconsolidation  Agreement "). In essence, under the Deconsolidation 
Agreement, Siemens AG and SB I commit  vis-à-vis the Company to a level of self -restraint regarding the 
use of their voting rights in the Company in order to ensure that they will not be able to carry a vote on 
their own in respect of certain essential matters. Such matters include the  appointment and removal of the 
members of the Company's supervisory board (the " Supervisory  Board "), certain management matters 
(Geschäftsführungsmaßnahmen ) brought before the shareholders' meeting of the Company, discharge 
(Entlastung ) of the members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, votes of non -confidence 
(Vertrauensentzug ), board compensation matters and adoption ( Feststellung ) of annual accounts if the 
shareholders' meeting resolves on such approval. Further, Siemens undertakes vis-à-vis the Company that 
there will be a maximum of three Supervisory Board members who are depend ent on Siemens, e.g., 
members of the executive board ( Vorstand ) of Siemens AG. Members of the supervisory board 
(Aufsichtsrat ) of Siemens AG are not considered closely  affiliated with Siemens for purposes of this 
threshold. The Deconsolidation Agreement shall be effective at least until the end of the fifth general 
shareholders' meeting following the general shareholders' meeting in February 2021 . During this period, 
the Deconsolidation Agreement can only be terminated for good cause.  
On matters not covered by the Deconsolidation Agreement or if the Deconsolidation Agreement is 
terminated, Siemens AG may, depending on the shareholder presence at the general shareholders'  meeting 
of the Company, be in a position to control the resolutions passed by the general shareholders' meeting of 
the Company with a simple majority of the votes cast or the represented share capital. Matters not covered 
by the Deconsolidation Agreement include resolutions concerning the distribution of dividends. Due to 
the expected attendance levels, Siemens will likely be able to control the resolutions on the distribution 
of dividends as long as it does not significantly reduce its shareholding in the  Company. In addition, as 
long as Siemens AG holds more than 25% of the shares represented at the general shareholders' meeting, 
Siemens AG will be able to prevent resolutions from being adopted at the general shareholders' meeting 
 
- 34 - 
 of the Company which req uire a qualified majority of the votes cast and/or the represented share capital. 
This may include, inter alia, capital increases to finance acquisitions or for other purposes, structural 
measures ( e.g., approval of enterprise, merger, spin -off or other ma jor agreements and most changes to 
the articles of association). In connection with the exercise of its voting rights and/or the exercise of its 
contractual rights under agreements entered into with the Company or its subsidiaries, the interests of 
Siemens  AG may be in conflict with the interests of the other shareholders and the Company. In the event 
that Siemens AG does not participate in a capital increase proposed by the Company in the future, the 
Company's efforts to raise new capital could be undermin ed. 
Siemens AG may also sell, or announce to sell, the shares it holds in Siemens Energy at a certain point of 
time thereby affecting the share price of Siemens Energy shares negatively. In view of the investment 
guidelines of Siemens Pension -Trust e.V. an d applicable asset diversification requirements, we cannot 
exclude that Siemens Pension -Trust e.V. will reduce its shareholding, which could result in additional 
selling pressure and could therefor negatively affect the price of the Company's Shares.  
9. Risks  relating to Siemens Energy Finance B.V.  
The Issuer is a finance company which concentrates on financing activities for the Siemens Energy Group. 
A significant portion of its assets are receivables from Siemens Energy Group companies.  
The business, financi al condition (including effects on assets, liabilities and cash flows), results of 
operations and reputation of the Issuer could suffer from material adverse effects due to any of the risks 
described below. While the Issuer has described below all the risk s that the Issuer considers material, 
those risks are not the only ones the Issuer faces. Additional risks not known to the Issuer or that the 
Issuer currently considers immaterial may also impair the Issuer's business operations.  
9.1 Business and Financing R isks 
• The Issuer's business activities depend on the ability of Siemens Energy AG and other 
members of the Siemens Energy Group to meet their payment obligations under 
intercompany loans provided to them by the Issuer;  
• The Issuer's business activities are m ainly exposed to liquidity risk, currency risk, 
interest rate risk, credit risk and fair market value risk;  
• The Issuer's cost of borrowing may also be negatively affected by increases in the credit 
spreads.  
9.2 Compliance and Operational Risks  
• The Issuer is s ubject to regulatory and similar risks associated with its financing 
activities;  
• The Issuer is subject to operating risks, which mainly result from the use of computer 
systems and modern information technology.  
10. Risks relating to the Notes  and the Guarante e 
10.1 The Notes may not be a suitable investment for all investors  
Prospective investors should consider whether an investment in the Notes is appropriate in their respective 
circumstances and should consult with their legal, business, and tax advisors to dete rmine the 
consequences of an investment in the Notes and to form an independent opinion whether to invest in the 
Notes.  
10.2 Risks relating to "Green Notes"  
An amount equivalent to the net proceeds of the Notes is intended to be allocated to finance and/or 
refinance, in whole or in part, new or existing Eligible Green Expenditures in line with Siemens Energy's 
Green Bond Framework dated January  2023 (the " Green Bond Framework "), as further described in the 
section " Use of Proceeds ".  
 
- 35 - 
 The Green Bond Framework  can be accessed on the website of the Issuer (www.siemens -energy.com). 
For the avoidance of doubt, neither the Green Bond Framework  nor the Second Party Opinion (as defined 
below) are incorporated by reference into or form part of this Prospectus . 
Prospective investors should refer to the information set out in this Prospectus and in the Green Bond 
Framework  regarding such use of proceeds and must determine for themselves the relevance of such 
information for the purpose of any investment in the N otes together with any other investigation such 
investor deems necessary.  
Due to the Issuer's intention to apply an amount equivalent to the net proceeds from the issuance of the 
Notes to Eligible Green Expenditures , the Issuer and the Guarantor refer to t he Notes as "Green Notes". 
Green Notes may not be a suitable investment for all investors seeking exposure to green assets. 
Prospective investors who intend to invest in Green Notes must determine for themselves the relevance 
of the information in this Pro spectus for the purpose of any investment in the Green Notes together with 
any other investigation such investors deem necessary. In particular, no assurance is given by the Issuer, 
the Guarantor or any Manager that the use of proceeds of the Green Notes w ill meet or continue to meet 
on an ongoing basis any or all investor expectations regarding investment in "green bond", "green" or 
"sustainable" or similar labels (including the EU Taxonomy ). On March 9, 2020, the Technical Expert 
Group on Sustainable Fina nce published its final report on the EU Taxonomy containing 
recommendations relating to the overarching design of the EU Taxonomy, as well as extensive 
implementation guidance on how companies and financial institutions can use and disclose against the 
taxonomy, including in relation to a future European standard for Green Notes proposed by the Technical 
Expert Group on Sustainable Finance in 2019. On June 22, 2020, the EU Taxonomy  entered into force , 
amend ing Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 on sustainability‐re lated disclosures in the financial services 
sector. On July 6, 2021 the European Commission has proposed a regulation on a voluntary EU Green 
Bond Standard. Trilogue negotiations concluded at the end of February 2023 with a provisional 
agreement . While the  final text of the EU Green Bond Standard has not yet been published, the European 
Council and European Parliament have announced that it will be a voluntary standard for issuers that wish 
to use the 'European green bond ' designation . The standard  will use  the definitions of green economic 
activities in the EU Taxonomy to define what is considered a green investment. The Green Notes may 
not at any time be eligible for the Issuer to be entitled to use the designation of "European green bond" or 
"EuGB" nor does the Issuer intend to or is the Issuer under any obligation to take steps to have any Green 
Notes become eligible for such designation.  
No assurance can be given by the Issuer, the Guarantor or the Managers  that the envisaged use of net 
proceeds for the Notes by the Issuer for any Eligible Green Expenditures  in accordance with the Green 
Bond Framework  will satisfy, either in whole or in part, (i) any existing or future legislative or regulatory 
requirements, or (ii) any present or future investor expectat ions or requirements with respect to investment 
criteria or guidelines with which any investor or its investments are required to comply under its own by -
laws or other governing rules or investment portfolio mandates. Further, no assurance or representatio n 
can be given by the Issuer, the Guarantor or the Managers  that the reporting under the Green Bond 
Framework  will meet investor needs or expectations.  
It is the intention of the Issuer to apply an amount equivalent to the net proceeds of the Notes for Eligible 
Green Expenditures  in, or substantially in, the manner described in this Prospectus and in the Green Bond 
Framework . However, there can be no assurance by the Issuer, the Guarantor, the Managers  or any other 
person that the relevant project(s) or use (s) the subject of, or related to, any Eligible Green Expenditures  
will be capable of being implemented in or substantially in such manner and/or accordance with any 
timing schedule and that accordingly such proceeds will be disbursed in whole or in part f or such Eligible 
Green Expenditures . Neither can there be any assurance by the Issuer, the Guarantor, the Managers  or 
any other person that such Eligible Green Expenditures  will be completed within any specified period or 
at all or with the results or outc ome (whether or not related to the environment) as originally expected or 
anticipated by the Issuer or the Guarantor.  
Any such event or any failure by the Issuer to do so will not constitute an event or default under the Notes 
or give the holders of the No tes (the " Holder s" and each a " Holder ") the right to otherwise early terminate 
the Notes.  
Payment of principle and interest of the Notes will be made from Siemens Energy Group's general funds 
and will not be directly linked to the performance of any Eligible Green Expenditures . 
 
- 36 - 
 No assurance or representation can be given by the Issuer, the Guar antor or the Managers  as to the 
suitability or reliability for any purpose whatsoever of the opinion of Sustainalytics  which is made 
available in connection with the issue of the Notes and in particular with any Eligible Green Expenditures  
to fulfil any en vironmental and/or other criteria (the " Second Party Opinion "). The Second Party 
Opinion may not address risks that may affect the value of the Notes issued under the Green Bond 
Framework  or any Eligible Green Expenditures  against which the Issuer or the G uarantor may assign the 
net proceeds of the Notes.  
Such Second Party Opinion provides an opinion on certain environmental and related considerations and 
is not intended to address any credit, market or other aspects of an investment in any Notes, including 
without limitation market price, marketability, in vestor preference or suitability of any security. Such 
Second Party Opinion is a statement of opinion, not a statement of fact. Any such Second Party Opinion 
is not, nor should be deemed to be, a recommendation by the Issuer, the Guarantor, the Managers  or any 
other person to buy, sell or hold the Notes. Any such Second Party Opinion is only current as of the date 
that opinion was initially issued and may be updated, suspended or withdrawn by the relevant provider(s) 
at any time. Prospective investors must determine for themselves the relevance of any such Second Party 
Opinion and/or the information contained therein and/or the provider of such Second Party Opinion for 
the purpose of any investment in the Notes.  
Currently, the providers of such Second Party Opinions are not subject to any specific regulatory or other 
regime or oversight. Holder s should not expect to have any recourse against the provider of the Second 
Party Opinion.  
No representation or assurance is given by the Issuer, the Guarantor, the Managers  or any other person 
that the intended display of the Notes on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange's Green Exchange satisfies, 
whether in whole or in part, any present or future investor expectations or requirements with respect to 
investment criteria or gu idelines with which any investor or its investments are required to comply under 
its own by -laws or other governing rules or investment portfolio mandates. Furthermore, it should be 
noted that the criteria for such display may vary from one stock exchange or securities market to another. 
Nor is any representation or assurance given or made by the Issuer, the Guarantor, the Managers  or any 
other person that any such display will be maintained during the life of the Notes.  
Any of the risks mentioned above and  in particular (i) the non -compliance of the Notes with any future 
voluntary or regulatory standard for sustainable instruments, (ii) a failure to apply an amount equivalent 
to the net proceeds of the issue of the Notes for any Eligible Green Expenditures  and (iii) the withdrawal 
of the Second Party Opinion may have a material adverse effect on the value of the Notes and/or result in 
adverse consequences for certain investors with portfolio mandates to invest in securities to be used for a 
particular purpos e. 
10.3 Liquidity Risk  
Application has been made to list the Notes on the Official List of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and 
for admission to trading of the Notes on the Euro MTF operated by the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. 
However, there can be no assurance that  a liquid secondary market for the Notes will develop or, if it does 
develop, that it will continue. In an illiquid market, an investor might not be able to sell his Notes at any 
time at fair market prices. The possibility to sell the Notes might additiona lly be restricted by country 
specific reasons.  
10.4 Market Price Risk  
The development of market prices of the Notes depends on various factors, such as changes of the current 
interest rate on the capital market (" Market Interest Rate ") levels, the policies of c entral banks, overall 
economic developments, inflation rates or the lack of or excess demand for the relevant type of Notes. 
There can be no assurance that such factors will not cause market volatility or that such volatility will not 
adversely affect the price of the Notes or that economic and market conditions will not have any other 
adverse effect. The Holder s are therefore exposed to the risk of an unfavourable development of market 
prices of their Notes which materialize if the Holder s sell the Notes p rior to the final maturity of such 
Notes. If a Holder  decides to hold the Notes until final maturity, the Notes will be redeemed at their 
principal amount.  
 
- 37 - 
 10.5 Risk of Early Redemption  
The Issuer has the right to call the Notes prior to maturity (optional call  right) for reasons of taxation, 
within the call redemption period (one month with respect to the 2026  Notes and three months  with 
respect to the 2029  Notes)  prior to maturity, for reasons of minimal outstanding amount and at the option 
of the issuer at th e make -whole amount. If the Issuer redeems the Notes prior to maturity or the Notes are 
subject to early redemption due to an early redemption event, a Holder  is exposed to the risk that due to 
such early redemption his investment will have a lower than ex pected yield.  
In case of an early redemption of the Notes, an investor may not be able to reinvest the redemption 
proceeds in comparable securities with an effective interest rate as high as that of the redeemed Notes.  
10.6 Currency Risk  
The Notes are denominat ed in euro. Prospective investors should bear in mind that an investment in the 
Notes involves currency risks. This presents certain risks relating to currency conversions if a Holder 's 
financial activities are denominated principally in a currency or curr ency unit (the " Investor's 
Currency ") other than euro. These include the risk that exchange rates may change significantly 
(including changes due to devaluation of the euro or revaluation of the Investor's Currency) and the risk 
that authorities with juris diction over the Investor's Currency may impose or modify exchange controls. 
An appreciation in the value of the Investor's Currency relative to the euro would decrease 
(i) the Investor's Currency -equivalent yield on the Notes, (ii) the Investor's Currency  equivalent value of 
the principal payable on the Notes and (iii) the Investor's Currency -equivalent market value of the Notes. 
In addition, government and monetary authorities may impose (as some have done in the past) exchange 
controls that could adverse ly affect an applicable currency exchange rate. As a result, Holder s may receive 
less interest or principal than expected, or no interest or principal.  
10.7 Risks related to the effective subordination of the Notes  
Although the Terms and Conditions restrict the  Issuer's and the Guarantor's ability to provide asset 
security for the benefit of other debt and require the Issuer and the Guarantor to secure the Notes equally 
if they provide security for the benefit of Capital Market Indebtedness (as defined in the Te rms and 
Conditions), the requirement to provide equal security to the Notes is subject to a number of exceptions 
and carve -outs.  
To the extent the Issuer or the Guarantor provides asset security for the benefit of other debt without also 
securing the Notes , the Notes will be effectively junior to such debt to the extent of such assets.  
As a result of the foregoing, holders of any secured debt of the Issuer or the Guarantor may recover 
disproportionately more on their claims than the Holders in an insolvency , bankruptcy or similar 
proceeding. The Issuer and the Guarantor may not have sufficient assets remaining to make payments on 
the Notes or the Guarantee, as applicable.  
10.8 The Notes are structurally subordinated to creditors of the Guarantor 's subsidiaries  
The Notes will not be guaranteed by any of the subsidiaries of the Guarantor . Generally, claims of 
creditors of a ny subsidiary of the Guarantor , including trade creditors, secured creditors, and creditors 
holding indebtedness and guarantees issued by such subsidiary , will have priority with respect to the 
assets and earnings of the subsidiary  over the claims of creditors of its parent company  and, ultimately, 
of the Guarantor . In the event of a liquidation, winding -up or dissolution or a bankruptcy, administration, 
reorganization, insolvency, receivership or similar proceeding of any subsidiary of the Guarantor , such 
subsidiary will pay the holder s of its own debt (including holders of third -party debt which such 
subsidiaries  have guaranteed) before they would be able to distribute any of their assets to the Guarantor . 
As a result, the Issuer and/or the Guarantor may not have sufficient assets to m ake payments on the Notes 
or the Guarantee, as applicable.  
10.9 Fixed Rate Notes  
A Holder  is exposed to the risk that the price of the Notes falls as a result of changes in the Market Interest 
Rate. While the nominal interest rate of the Notes as specified in t he Terms and Conditions is fixed during 
the life of the Notes, Market Interest Rate typically changes on a daily basis. As the Market Interest Rate 
changes, the price of fixed rate notes also changes, but in the opposite direction. If the Market Interest 
 
- 38 - 
 Rate increases, the price of fixed rate notes typically falls, until the yield of such note is approximately 
equal to the Market Interest Rate. If the Market Interest Rate falls, the price of a fixed rate note typically 
increases, until the yield of such no te is approximately equal to the Market Interest Rate. If the holder of 
a fixed rate note holds such note until maturity, changes in the Market Interest Rate are without relevance 
to such holder as the note will be redeemed at a specified redemption amount , usually the principal amount 
of such note.  
10.10  Risks in connection with the application of the German Act on Issues of Debt Securities 
(Gesetz über Schuldverschreibungen aus Gesamtemissionen ) 
A Holder  is subject to the risk of being outvoted and of losing ri ghts against the Issuer against his will in 
the case that other Holder s agree to amendments of the Terms and Conditions by majority vote according 
to the German Act on Issues of Debt Securities ( Gesetz über Schuldverschreibungen aus 
Gesamtemissionen – "SchVG"). Inter alia , Holder s may decide that a request of other Holder s holding at 
least 25 per cent.  in the principal amount of Notes then outstanding to declare their Notes due in the events 
specified in § 9 of the Terms and Conditions shall not be valid. I n the case of an appointment of a common 
representative ( gemeinsamer Vertreter ) for all Holder s, the Holder s may lose, in whole or in part, the 
possibility to individually enforce and claim their rights against the Issuer.  
10.11  The market value of the Notes cou ld decrease if the creditworthiness of the Issuer or the 
Guarantor worsens  
If, e.g., because of the materialization of any of the risks regarding the Issuer or the Guarantor, the 
likelihood that the Issuer will be in a position to fully perform all obligat ions under the Notes when they 
fall due decreases, the market value of the Notes will suffer. In addition, even if the likelihood that the 
Issuer will be in a position to fully perform all obligations under the Notes when they fall due actually 
has not dec reased, market participants could nevertheless have a different perception. In addition, the 
market participants' estimation of the creditworthiness of corporate debtors in general or debtors operating 
in the same business as the Issuer could adversely cha nge. 
If any of these risks occurs, third parties would only be willing to purchase Notes for a lower price than 
before the materialization of said risk. Under these circumstances, the market value of the Notes will 
decrease.  
10.12  Ratings may not reflect all risks and are subject to change  
Ratings assigned to the Guarantor  by rating agencies are an indicator of the Guarantor 's ability to meet its 
obligations under the Guarantee  in a timely manner. The lower the assigned rating is on the respective 
scale the hi gher the respective rating agency assesses the risk that the Guarantor 's obligations will not be 
met at all or not be met in a timely manner. The market value of the Notes from time to time is likely to 
be dependent upon the level of credit rating assigned  to the long -term debt of the Guarantor . Rating 
agencies may change, suspend or withdraw their ratings at short notice. A change, suspension or 
withdrawal of a rating may affect the price and the market value of the Notes. A Holder  may thus incur 
financial  disadvantages as he may not be able to sell the Notes or will only be able to do so at a discount, 
which could be substantial, to the issue price or the purchase price paid by such Holder . 
One or more independent credit rating agencies may assign credit r atings to the Notes. Such ratings may 
not reflect the potential impact of all risks related to the structure, market and additional factors discussed 
herein, and other factors that may affect the value of the Notes. In addition, S&P Global Ratings, 
Fitch  Ratings, Moody's Investors Service or any other rating agency may change its methodologies for 
rating securities with features similar to the Notes in the future. This may include the relationship between 
ratings assigned to an entity's senior securities an d ratings assigned to securities with features similar to 
the Notes, sometimes called "notching". If the rating agencies were to change their practices for rating 
such securities in the future and the ratings of the Notes were to be lowered as a consequenc e thereof, this 
could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the Notes. A credit rating is not a 
recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be revised or withdrawn by the rating agency at 
any time.  
 
- 39 - 
 10.13  No restriction on the amount o f debt which the Issuer may incur in the future  
There is no restriction on the amount of debt which the Issuer may issue which ranks equal to the Notes. 
Such issuance of further debt may reduce the amount recoverable by the Holder s upon winding -up or 
insol vency of the Issuer.  
10.14  No default if payment is not effected due to any law or regulation  
The Terms and Conditions provide that, to the extent legally permissible, the Issuer shall not be in default 
of its payment obligation under the Notes if payment to the Fiscal Agent or the Clearing System is not 
effected due to any law or regulation provid ed that the Issuer cannot effect payment to the Fiscal Agent 
or the Clearing System by reasonable means. In such case, a termination of the Notes pursuant to § 9(1)(a) 
of the Terms and Conditions shall not be possible to this extent  and affected Holders ma y receive payment 
only once payment to the Fiscal Agent or the Clearing System can be effected under such  law or regulation . 
 
- 40 - 
 USE OF PROCEEDS  
The net proceeds from the issue and sale of the Notes will amount to approximately EUR  746,317,500  
with respect to the 2026  Notes and approximately EUR  744,390,000  with respect to the 2029  Notes . 
An amount equivalent to the net proceeds of the Notes is intended to be allocated to finance and/or 
refinance, in whole or in part, new or existing Eligible Green Expenditures  in line with Siemens Energy's 
Green Bond Framework dated January  2023 (the " Green Bond Framework ").  
"Eligible Green Expenditures " may include majority acquisitions of companies or minority equity 
participations in entities that derive 90% or more of thei r revenue  from activities meeting the eligibility 
criteria described in the Green Bond Framework, also called 'pure player companies' as well as re -
financing of existing debt of a pure player company. Eligible categories means renewable energy 
including ex penditures related to the design, development, manufacturing and installation of onshore and 
offshore wind turbines and expenditures related to the operation and maintenance of onshore and offshore 
wind farms.  
Until the maturity of the Notes, in case of di vestment or cancellation of an allocated Eligible Green 
Expenditure, or if an allocated project no longer meets the eligibility criteria, the Issuer commits to 
reallocate the net proceeds to other Eligible Green Expenditure depending on availability.  
The I ssuer  intends to fully allocate the net proceeds within 24 months after the Issue Date. Until such full 
allocation, unallocated proceeds will be invested on a temporary basis, in accordance with relevant 
internal treasury policies, in cash, cash equivalent s or similar instruments, as described in the Green Bond 
Framework.  
None of the Managers  will verify or monitor the proposed use of proceeds of the Notes.  
An external review of the Green Bond Framework has been obtained:  
Siemens Energy  Finance B.V.  has engaged Sustainalytics to review the Green Bond Framework and 
provide a second party opinion on the Green Bond Framework's environmental credentials and its 
alignment with the Green Bond  Principles 2021 administered by the International Capital Market 
Association (" ICMA "). 
Sustainalytics has issued the second party opinion dated January  18, 2023 confirming the alignment of 
the Green Bond Framework with the ICMA Green Bond Principles 2021 (the " Second Party Opinion ").  
Within one year from the Issue Date and until an amount equivalent of the net proceeds of the Notes has 
been allocated in full to Eligible Green Expenditures, and later in case of any material change, 
the Guarantor  will publish annually (i) an allocation report and (ii)  an imp act report, the latter subject to 
the availability of suitable information and data, as described in the Green Bond Framework.  
The allocation and impact report as well as the Green Bond Framework and the Second Party Opinion 
are or will be, as the case may  be, available on the Guarantor's website (www.siemens -energy.com).  
 
- 41 - 
 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE 2026  NOTES  
These terms and conditions of the notes (the " Terms and Conditions ") are written in the German 
language and provided with an English language transla tion. The German text shall be the legally binding 
version. The English language translation is provided for convenience only.  
Diese Emissionsbedingungen (die " Emissionsbedingungen ") sind in deutscher Sprache abgefasst und 
mit einer englischen Übersetzung versehen. Der deutsche Wortlaut ist rechtsverbindlich. Die englische 
Übersetzung dient nur zur Information . 
§ 1 
WÄHRUNG, STÜCKELUNG, FORM, 
BESTIMMTE DEFINITIONEN   § 1 
CURRENCY, DENOMINATION, FORM, 
CERTAIN DEFINITIONS  
(1) Währung; Stückelung . Diese Serie 
(die "Serie ") von auf den Inhaber 
lautenden Schuldverschreibungen 
(die "Schuldverschreibungen ") der 
Siemens Energy Finance B.V. 
(die "Emittentin ") wird am 
5. April  2023  in Euro  (die " Festgelegte 
Währung ") im Gesamtnennbetrag von 
(vorbehaltlich § 1(6)) EUR  750.000.000  
in einer Stückelung von EUR  100.000  
(die " Festgelegte Stückelung ") 
begeben.   (1) Currency; Denomination . This series 
(the " Series ") of bearer Notes 
(the "Notes ") of Siemens Energy 
Finance B.V. (" Issuer ") is being issued 
on April 5,  2023  in Euro  (the " Specified 
Currency ") in the aggregate principal 
amount of (subject to § 1(6)) 
EUR  750,000,000  in the denomination 
of EUR  100,000  (the "Specified 
Denomination "). 
(2) Vorläufige Globalurkunde — 
Austausch .  (2) Temporary Global Note — Exchange . 
(a) Die Schuldverschreibungen sind 
anfänglich durch eine vorläufige 
Globalurkunde (die " Vorläufige 
Globalurkunde ") ohne Zinsscheine 
verbrieft. Die Vorläufige 
Globalurkunde wird gegen 
Schuldverschreibungen in den 
Festgelegten Stückelungen, die durch 
eine Dauerglobalurkunde 
(die "Dauerglobalurkunde " und mit 
der Vorläufigen Globalurkunde, die 
"Globalurkunden ") ohne Zinsscheine 
verbrieft sind, ausgetauscht. Die 
Einzelheiten eines solchen Austausches 
werden in die Aufzeichnungen des 
ICSD (wie nachstehend defi niert) 
aufgenommen. Die Globalurkunden 
werden von oder im Namen der 
Emittentin unterschrieben und werden 
von der Emissionsstelle (wie 
nachstehend definiert) oder in deren 
Namen mit einer Kontrollunterschrift 
versehen. Einzelurkunden und 
Zinsscheine werden nicht ausgegeben.   (a) The Notes are initially represented by a 
temporary global note (the " Temporary 
Global Note ") without coupons. The 
Temporary Global Note will be 
exchangeable for Notes in Specified 
Denominations represented by a 
permanent global note (the " Permanent 
Global Note " and together with the 
Temporary Global Note, the " Global 
Notes ") without coupons. The details of 
such exchange shall be entered in the 
records of the ICSD (as defined below). 
The Global Notes shall be signed by or 
on behalf of the Issuer and shall be 
authenticated by or on behalf of the 
Fiscal Agent (as defined below). 
Definitive Notes and interest coupons 
will not be issued.  
(b) Die Vorläufige Globalurkunde wird an 
einem Tag (der " Austauschtag ") gegen 
die Dauerglobalurkunde ausgetauscht, 
der nicht weniger als 40 Tage nach dem 
Tag der Begebung liegen wird. Ein 
solcher Austausch darf nur dann  (b) The Temporary Global Note shall be 
exchanged for the Permanent Global 
Note on a date (the " Exchange Date ") 
not earlier than 40 days after the date of 
issue of the Notes. Such exchange shall 
only be made upon receipt by the Issuer 
 
- 42 - 
 erfolgen, wenn die Emittentin von dem 
jeweiligen Clearing -System eine 
Bescheinigung erhalten hat, wonach der 
oder die wirtschaftlichen Eigentümer 
der Schuldverschreibungen keine U.S. -
Personen sind (ausgenommen 
bestimmte Finanzinstitute oder 
bestimmte Personen, die 
Schuldverschreibungen über solche 
Finanzinstitute halten). Solange die 
Schuldverschreibungen dur ch eine 
Vorläufige Globalurkunde verbrieft 
sind, werden Zinszahlungen erst nach 
Vorlage solcher Bescheinigungen 
vorgenommen. Eine gesonderte 
Bescheinigung ist für jede solche 
Zinszahlung erforderlich. Jede 
Bescheinigung, die am oder nach dem 
40. Tag nach d em Tag der Begebung der 
Schuldverschreibungen eingeht, wird 
als ein Ersuchen behandelt werden, 
diese Vorläufige Globalurkunde gemäß 
diesem § 1 Absatz (2)(b) auszutauschen. 
Schuldverschreibungen, die im 
Austausch für die Vorläufige 
Globalurkunde geliefert w erden, dürfen 
nur außerhalb der Vereinigten Staaten 
(wie in § 4 Absatz ( 5) definiert) geliefert 
werden.  of certifications from the relevant 
Clearing System to the effect that the 
beneficial owner or owners of the Notes 
is not a U.S. person (other than certain 
financial institu tions or certain persons 
holding Notes through such financial 
institutions). Payment of interest on 
Notes represented by a Temporary 
Global Note will be made only after 
receipt by the Issuer of such 
certifications from the relevant Clearing 
System. A separ ate certification shall be 
required in respect of each such payment 
of interest. Any such certification 
received on or after the 40th day after the 
date of issue of the Notes will be treated 
as a request to exchange the Temporary 
Global Note pursuant to this § 1(2)(b). 
Any Notes delivered in exchange for the 
Temporary Global Note shall be 
delivered only outside of the United 
States (as defined in § 4 (5)). 
(3) Clearing -System . Jede die 
Schuldverschreibungen verbriefende 
Globalurkunde wird vom oder im 
Namen des Clearing -Systems verwahrt. 
"Clearing -System " bedeutet jeweils 
Folgendes: Clearstream Banking S.A. 
("CBL ") und Euroclear Bank SA/ NV 
("Euroclear "), wobei CBL und 
Euroclear jeweils als " Internationaler 
Zentralverwahrer " ( International 
Central Securities Depository ) oder 
"ICSD " (und zusammen die " ICSDs "), 
handeln.   (3) Clearing System . Each Global Note 
representing the Notes will be ke pt in 
custody by or on behalf of the Clearing 
System. " Clearing System " means each 
of the following: Clearstream 
Banking  S.A. (" CBL ") and Euroclear 
Bank SA/NV (" Euroclear ") (CBL and 
Euroclear each acting as an 
"International Central Securities 
Depository " or "ICSD" (and together 
the " ICSDs ")). 
Die Verwahrung der Globalurkunde 
wird von einem gemeinsamen 
Verwahrer ( common safekeeper ) im 
Namen beider ICSDs vorgenommen. 
Die Schuldverschreibungen sind in Form 
einer neuen Globalurkunde ( new global 
note) (NGN) oh ne Zinsscheine verbrieft.   The Global Note is kept in custody by a 
common safekeeper on behalf of both 
ICSDs. The Notes are in the form of a 
new global note (NGN) without interest 
coupons.  
(4) Gläubiger von Schuldverschreibungen . 
"Gläubiger " bedeutet jeder Inhaber von 
rechtlichem Eigentum, 
Miteigentumsanteilen und/oder 
vergleichbaren Eigentumsansprüchen 
oder Rechten an der Globalurkunde. 
Ihre Übertragung erfolgt in  (4) Holder of Notes . "Holder " means any 
holder of legal ownership, a 
proportionate co -ownership and/or 
beneficial interest or right in the Global 
Note. Their transfer shall be effected in 
accordance with the provisions of the 
Clearing System.  
 
- 43 - 
 Übereinstimmung mit den 
Bestimmungen des Clearing -Systems.  
(5) Bezugnahmen auf 
Schuldverschreibungen . Bezugnahmen 
in diesen Emissionsbedingungen auf die 
"Schuldverschreibungen " schließen 
Bezugnahmen auf jede die 
Schuldverschreibungen verbriefende 
Globalurkunde ein, es sei denn, aus dem 
Zusammenhang ergibt sich etwas 
anderes.   (5) References to Notes . References herein 
to the " Notes " include (unless the 
context otherwise requires) references 
to any global note representing the 
Notes appertaining thereto.  
(6) Register der ICSDs . Der 
Gesamtnennbetrag der durch die 
Globalurkunde verbrief ten 
Schuldverschreibungen entspricht dem 
jeweils in den Registern beider ICSDs 
eingetragenen Gesamtbetrag. Die 
Register der ICSDs (unter denen man 
die Register versteht, die jeder ICSD für 
seine Kunden über den Betrag ihres 
Anteils an den Schuldverschreibu ngen 
führt) sind schlüssiger Nachweis des 
Gesamtnennbetrags der durch die 
Globalurkunde verbrieften 
Schuldverschreibungen. Eine in diesem 
Zusammenhang von einem ICSD 
jeweils ausgestellte Bescheinigung über 
den Betrag der so verbrieften 
Schuldverschreibunge n ist ein 
schlüssiger Nachweis über den Inhalt 
des Registers des jeweiligen ICSD zu 
diesem Zeitpunkt.   (6) Records of the ICSDs . The aggregate 
principal amount of Notes represented 
by the Global Note shall be the 
aggregate amount from time to time 
entered in the records of both ICSDs. 
The records of the ICSDs (which 
expression means the records that each 
ICSD holds for its customers which 
reflect the amount of such customer's 
interest in the Notes) shall be conclusive 
evidence of the aggregate principal 
amount of Notes represented by the 
Global Note and, for these purposes, a 
statement issued by an ICSD stating the 
amount of Notes so represented at any 
time shall be conclusive evidence of the 
records of the relevant ICSD at that 
time.  
Im Fall der Rückzahlun g bezüglich der 
durch die Globalurkunde verbrieften 
Schuldverschreibungen bzw. bei Kauf 
und Entwertung der durch die 
Globalurkunde verbrieften 
Schuldverschreibungen stellt die 
Emittentin sicher, dass die Einzelheiten 
über Rückzahlung bzw. Kauf und 
Entwertu ng bezüglich der 
Globalurkunde pro rata  in die Register 
der ICSDs eingetragen werden, und dass 
nach dieser Eintragung der gesamte 
Nennbetrag der zurückgekauften bzw. 
gekauften und entwerteten 
Schuldverschreibungen vom 
Gesamtnennbetrag der in die Register 
der ICSDs aufgenommenen und durch 
die Globalurkunde verbrieften 
Schuldverschreibungen abgezogen wird.   On any redemption being made in 
respect of, or purchase and cancellation 
of, any of the Notes represented by the 
Global Note the Issuer shall procure that  
details of such redemption or purchase 
and cancellation (as the case may be) in 
respect of the Global Note shall be 
entered pro rata  in the records of the 
ICSDs and, upon any such entry being 
made, the aggregate principal amount of 
the Notes recorded in t he records of the 
ICSDs and represented by the Global 
Note shall be reduced by the total 
principal amount of the Notes so 
redeemed or purchased and cancelled.  
§ 2 
STATUS, GARANTIE   § 2 
STATUS, GUARANTEE  
(1) Status . Die Schuldverschreibungen 
begründen nicht besicherte und nicht 
nachrangige Zahlungsverbindlichkeiten  (1) Status . The payment obligations under 
the Notes constitute unsecured and 
unsubordinated obligations of the Issuer 
 
- 44 - 
 der Emittentin, die untereinander und 
mit allen anderen nicht besicherten und 
nicht nachrangigen gegenwärtigen und 
zukünftigen Verbindlichkeiten der 
Emittentin  gleichrangig sind, soweit 
diesen Verbindlichkeiten nicht durch 
zwingende gesetzliche Bestimmungen 
ein Vorrang eingeräumt wird.  ranking p ari passu among themselves 
and pari passu with all other unsecured 
and unsubordinated present and future 
obligations of the Issuer, unless such 
obligations are accorded priority under 
mandatory rules of law.  
(2) Garantie . Siemens Energy AG als 
Garantin (d ie " Garantin ") hat eine 
unbedingte und unwiderrufliche 
Garantie (die " Garantie ") für die 
ordnungsgemäße Zahlung von Kapital 
und sonstiger bezüglich der 
Schuldverschreibungen von der 
Emittentin in Übereinstimmung mit den 
Emissionsbedingungen zahlbarer 
Beträge übernommen. Die Garantie 
stellt einen Vertrag zugunsten eines 
jeden Gläubig ers als begünstigtem 
Dritten gemäß § 328 Absatz 1 BGB dar, 
welcher das Recht eines jeden 
Gläubigers begründet, Erfüllung aus der 
Garantie unmittelbar von der Garantin 
zu verlangen und die Garantie 
unmittelbar gegenüber der Garantin 
durchzusetzen. Kopien de r Garantie 
können kostenlos am Sitz der Garantin 
in München und am Sitz der 
Emissionsstelle bezogen werden.   (2) Guarantee . Siemens Energy AG as 
guarantor (the " Guarantor ") has given 
an unconditional and irrevocable 
guarantee (the " Guarantee ") for the due 
payment of principal of and any other 
amounts expressed to be payable in 
accordance with the Terms and 
Conditions under the Notes issued by 
the Issuer. The Guarantee constitutes a 
contract for the benefit of the Holders 
from time to time as third party 
beneficiaries in accordance with 
§ 328 (1) of the German Civil Code 
(Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch (BGB) ), 
giving rise to the right of each Holder to 
require performance of the Guarantee 
directly from the Guarantor and to 
enforce the Guarantee directly against 
the Guarantor. Copies of the Guarantee 
may be obtained free of charge at the 
principal office of the Guarantor in 
Munich and at the principal office of the 
Fiscal Agent.  
(3) Negativverpflichtung . Die Emittentin 
verpflichtet sich, solange die 
Schuldverschreibu ngen noch ausstehen 
(aber nur bis zu dem Zeitpunkt, an dem 
Kapital und Zinsen aus oder im 
Zusammenhang mit den 
Schuldverschreibungen der 
Emissionsstelle zur Verfügung gestellt 
worden sind), ihr gegenwärtiges oder 
zukünftiges Vermögen weder ganz noch 
teilwe ise mit Grundpfandrechten, 
Pfandrechten oder sonstigen dinglichen 
Sicherungsrechten (zusammen, die 
"Sicherheiten ") zur Besicherung 
gegenwärtiger oder zukünftiger 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten (wie 
nachfolgend definiert) der Emittentin 
oder eines Dritten ei nschließlich 
diesbezüglicher Garantien oder 
Freistellungsansprüche zu belasten, und 
zu gewährleisten, dass keine ihrer 
Wesentlichen Tochtergesellschaften 
Sicherheiten zur Besicherung 
gegenwärtiger oder zukünftiger 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten bestellt 
oder fortbestehen lässt  es sei denn, dass 
die Schuldverschreibungen gleichzeitig  (3) Negative  Pledge . The Issuer undertakes 
so long as any Notes remain 
outstanding, but only up to the time all 
amounts of principal and interest have 
been placed at the disposal of the Fiscal 
Agent not to c reate or permit to subsist 
any mortgage, pledge or other 
encumbrance in rem, (together, 
"Security "), and to procure that none of 
its Material Subsidiaries will create or 
permit to subsist, any Security upon any 
or all of its present or future assets as 
security for any present or future Capital 
Market Indebtedness (as defined below) 
of the Issuer or any third party  including 
guarantees and indemnities in respect of 
such Capital Market Indebtedness , 
unless the Notes at the same time share 
pari passu  and pro rata in such security 
or unless such other security as may be 
approved by an independent accounting 
firm as being equivalent security has 
been made available to the Holders.  
 
- 45 - 
 und in gleichem Rang anteilig an dieser 
Sicherheit teilnehmen oder den 
Gläubigern eine andere Sicherheit, die 
von einer unabhängigen 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft als 
gleichwer tige Sicherheit anerkannt 
wird, bestellt wird.  
"Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten " 
bedeutet jede gegenwärtige oder 
zukünftige Verbindlichkeit zur 
Rückzahlung aufgenommener 
Geldbeträge, die durch 
Schuldverschreibungen oder sonstige 
Wertpapiere, die an einer Börse oder an 
einem anderen organisierten Markt 
notiert oder gehandelt werden oder 
hinsichtlich derer ein solcher Handel 
beabsichtigt ist, verbrieft, verkörpert 
oder dokumentiert sind sowie jede 
Garantie oder sonstige Gewährleistung 
einer solchen Verbindlichkeit.   "Capital Market Indebtedness " means 
any present or future obligation for the 
payment of borrowed money, w hich is in 
the form of, or represented or evidenced 
by, bonds, or other instruments which 
are, or are intended to be, listed, quoted, 
dealt in or traded on any stock exchange 
or in any organised market and any 
guarantee or other indemnity in respect 
of suc h obligation.  
"Wesentliche Tochtergesellschaft " 
bezeichnet jede Tochtergesellschaft, die 
ausweislich des jeweils aktuellen, sofern 
rechtlich erforderlich geprüften und 
testierten, Jahresabschlusses der 
betreffenden Tochtergesellschaft und 
ausweislich des letzten geprüften und 
testierten Konzern abschlusses der 
Garantin mindestens 10 % des 
konsolidierten Umsatzes  oder der 
konsolidierten Bilanzsumme der 
Garantin und ihrer konsolidierten 
Tochtergesellschaften  ausmacht.   "Material Subsidiary " means any 
Subsidia ry which according to the most 
recent, to the extent legally required 
audited, financial statements of the 
relevant Subsidiary and the most recent 
audited consolidated annual financial 
statements of the Guarantor represents at 
least 10 per cent. of the con solidated 
revenue or the consolidated total assets 
of the Guarantor and its consolidated 
Subsidiaries . 
"Tochtergesellschaft " bezeichnet jedes 
im Mehrheitsbesitz der Garantin 
stehende Unternehmen oder jedes von 
der Garantin direkt oder indirekt 
abhängige o der kontrollierte 
Unternehmen.   "Subsidiary " means any company 
which is majority -owned by the 
Guarantor or any company which is 
directly or indirectly controlled by or 
dependent on the Guarantor.  
(4) Negativverpflichtung.  Die Garantin 
verpflichtet sich, solange die 
Schuldverschreibungen noch ausstehen 
(aber nur bis zu dem Zeitpunkt, an dem 
Kapital und Zinsen aus oder im 
Zusammenhang mit den 
Schuldverschreibungen de r 
Emissionsstelle zur Verfügung gestellt 
worden sind), ihr gegenwärtiges oder 
zukünftiges Vermögen weder ganz noch 
teilweise mit Grundpfandrechten, 
Pfandrechten oder sonstigen dinglichen 
Sicherungsrechten (zusammen, die 
"Sicherheiten ") zur Besicherung 
gegenwärtiger oder zukünftiger 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten (w ie 
nachfolgend definiert) der Garantin oder 
eines Dritten zu belasten, und zu 
gewährleisten, dass keine ihrer  (4) Negative Pledge.  The Guarantor 
undertakes so long as any Notes remain 
outstanding, but only up to the time all 
amounts of principal and interest have 
been placed at the disposal of the Fiscal 
Agent not to create or permit to subsist 
any mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or 
other encumbrance in rem, (together, 
"Security "), and to procure that none of 
its Material Subsidiaries will create or 
permit to subsist, any Security upon any 
or all of its present or future assets as 
security for any present or future Capital 
Market Indeb tedness (as defined below) 
of the Guarantor or any third party, 
unless the Notes at the same time share 
pari passu and pro rata in such security 
or unless such other security as may be 
approved by an independent accounting 
 
- 46 - 
 Wesentlichen Tochtergesellschaften 
Sicherheiten zur Besicherung 
gegenwärtiger oder zukünftiger 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten bestellt 
oder fortbes tehen lässt  es sei denn, dass 
die Schuldverschreibungen gleichzeitig 
und in gleichem Rang anteilig an dieser 
Sicherheit teilnehmen oder den 
Gläubigern eine andere Sicherheit, die 
von einer unabhängigen 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft als 
gleichwertige Sich erheit anerkannt 
wird, bestellt wird.  firm as being equivalent security  has 
been made available to the Holders.  
(5) Die Verpflichtung nach § 2 Absatz (3) 
gilt nicht, für   (5) The negative pledge pursuant to § 2(3) 
does not apply to any  
(a) Sicherheiten, die am Begebungstag der 
Schuldverschreibungen bestehen, oder   (a) Security which is in existence at the 
issue date of the Notes; or  
(b) Sicherheiten, die im Rahmen der 
normalen Geschäftstätigkeit oder kraft 
Gesetzes oder zur Einhaltung des 
anzuwendendem Rechts entstehen oder 
die von einer Behörde verlangt werden, 
einsch ließlich Pfandrechten und 
Aufrechnungsrechten; oder   (b) Security arising in the ordinary course of 
business or by operation of law or in 
order to comply with applicable laws or 
which is required by an authority, 
including liens and rights of set -off; or  
(c) Sicherheiten, die an Vermögen 
bestehen, das nach dem Begebungstag 
der Schuldverschreibungen erworben 
wurde, die 
(A) Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten 
besichern, die zur Finanzierung des 
Erwerbs eines solchen Vermögens 
(und/oder damit zusammenhängender 
Kost en und Aufwendungen) 
aufgenommen wurden oder (B) zum 
Zeitpunkt des Erwerbs eines solchen 
Vermögens durch die Emittentin oder 
die Garantin bestehen, sofern diese 
Sicherheiten nicht im Hinblick auf einen 
solchen Erwerb bestellt wurden und der 
besicherte Gesa mtnennbetrag nicht im 
Hinblick auf den Erwerb oder seit dem 
Erwerb erhöht wurde; oder   (c) Security over any asset acquired after 
the issue date of the Notes which 
(A) secures Capital Market 
Indebtedness incurred for the financing 
of the acquisition of such asset (and/or 
any related costs and expenses), or 
(B) exists on the date of the acquisition 
of such asset by the Issuer or the 
Guarantor provided that such Security 
has not been created in contemplation of 
such acquisition and the princ ipal 
amount secured has not been increased 
in contemplation of or since the 
acquisition; or  
(d) Sicherheiten, die zur Finanzierung eines 
bestimmten Projekts oder bestimmter 
Projekte geschaffen wurden, wobei der 
Rückgriff der jeweiligen Gläubiger auf 
das V ermögen und den Cashflow 
beschränkt ist, die diesem Projekt oder 
diesen Projekten zuzuordnen sind; oder   (d) Security created for the financing of a 
specific project or projects where 
recourse of the relevant holders is 
limited to the assets and the cash f low 
attributable to that project or those 
projects; or  
(e) Sicherheiten, die im Zusammenhang mit 
einer Begebung von Asset Backed 
Securities durch die Emittentin oder 
Garantin oder durch eine 
Zweckgesellschaft, bei der die 
Emittentin oder die Garantin der 
Originator der zugrunde liegenden  (e) Security provided in conn ection with 
any issuance of asset backed securities 
by the Issuer or the Guarantor or by a 
special purpose vehicle where the Issuer 
or the Guarantor is the originator of the 
underlying assets, provided that the 
aggregate amount of liabilities so 
 
- 47 - 
 Vermögenswerte ist, sofern der 
Gesamtbetrag der auf diese Weise 
besicherten Verbindlichkeiten zu 
keinem Zeitpunkt EUR  75.000.000 
(oder den Gegenwert in einer anderen 
Währung) übersteigt; oder  secured ma y not exceed 
EUR  75,000,000 (or the equivalent in 
any other currency) at any time; or   
(f) andere Sicherheiten zur Besicherung 
von Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten, die 
bei Umrechnung in Euro zum dann 
geltenden Wechselkurs zusammen mit 
allen anderen 
Kapitalm arktverbindlichkeiten, die 
gemäß diesem § 2 Absatz  (5)(f) 
besichert sind, EUR  150.000.000 nicht 
übersteigen.   (f) other Security securing Capital Market 
Indebtedness which when converted 
into euro at the then current exchange 
rate does not in the aggregate  with all 
other Capital Market Indebtedness 
secured in reliance on this § 2(5)(f) 
exceed EUR  150,000,000 (or the 
equivalent in any other currency).  
Jede nach § 2 Absatz  (3) zu leistende 
Sicherheit kann auch zugunsten einer 
Person bestellt werden, die insoweit als 
Treuhänder der Gläubiger handelt.   Any Security which is to be provided 
pursuant to this § 2(3) may, 
alternatively, also be provided to a 
trustee for the Holders.  
§ 3 
ZINSEN   § 3 
INTEREST  
(1) Zinssatz und Zinszahlungstage . Die 
Schuldverschreibungen werden 
bezogen auf ihre Festgelegte Stückelung 
verzinst, und zwar vom 5. April  2023 
(der "Verzinsungsbeginn ") 
(einschließlich) bis zum Fälligkeitstag 
(ausschließlich) (wie in § 5 Absatz (1) 
definiert) mit jährlich 4,000  %. Die 
Zinsen sind nachträglich am 5. April  
eines jeden Jahres zahlbar (jeweils ein 
"Zinszahlungstag "). Die erste 
Zinszahlung erfolgt am 5. April  2024 .  (1) Rate of Interest and Interest Payment 
Dates. The Notes shall bear interest on 
their Specified Denom ination at the rate 
of 4.000  % per annum  from 
(and including) April  5, 2023 
(the "Interest Commencement Date ") 
to (but  excluding) the Maturity Date 
(as defined in § 5(1)). Interest shall be 
payable in arrear on April 5  in each year 
(each such date, an " Interest Payment 
Date "). The first payment of interest 
shall be made on April 5,  2024 . 
(2) Auflaufende Zinsen . Falls die Emittentin 
die Schuldverschreibungen bei 
Fälligkeit nicht einlöst, endet die 
Verzinsung der Schuldverschreibungen 
nicht am Tag der Fällig keit, sondern erst 
zu dem Zeitpunkt, an dem das Kapital 
dem Clearing -System zur Verfügung 
gestellt worden sind. Die Verzinsung 
des ausstehenden Nennbetrages vom 
Tag der Fälligkeit an (einschließlich) bis 
zum Tag der Rückzahlung der 
Schuldverschreibungen (a usschließlich) 
erfolgt zum gesetzlich festgelegten Satz 
für Verzugszinsen.1  (2) Accrual of Interest . If the Issuer fails to 
redeem the Notes when due, interest 
shall continue to accrue from 
(and including) the due date to 
(but excluding) such date as principal 
has been placed at the disposal of the 
Clearing System at the default rate of 
interest established by law.2 
 
1 Der gesetzliche Verzugszinssatz beträgt fünf Prozentpunkte über dem von der Deutschen 
Bundesbank jeweils veröffentlichen Basiszinssatz, §§ 288 Abs. 1, 247 Abs. 1 BGB.  
The default interest rate established by is five percentage points above the base interest ra te published 
by the Deutsche Bundesbank, §§ 288 (1), 247 (1) German Civil Code (BGB).  
 
- 48 - 
 (3) Berechnung der Zinsen fü r Teile von 
Zeiträumen . Sofern Zinsen für einen 
Zeitraum zu berechnen sind der kürzer 
als eine Zinsperiode ist, erfolgt die 
Berechnung auf der Grundlage des 
Zinstagequotienten (wie nachfolgend 
definiert).   (3) Calculation of Interest for Partial 
Periods . If interest is required to be 
calculated for a period which is shorter 
than an Interest Period, such interest 
shall be calculated on the basis of the 
Day Count Fraction (as defined below).  
(4) Zinstagequotient . "Zinstagequotient " 
bezeichnet im Hinblick auf  die 
Berechnung von Zinsbeträgen für einen 
beliebigen Zeitraum 
(der "Zinsberechnungszeitraum ") die 
tatsächliche Anzahl von Tagen im 
Zinsberechnungszeitraum, geteilt durch 
die tatsächliche Anzahl von Tagen in der 
jeweiligen Zinsperiode.   (4) Day Count Fract ion. "Day Count 
Fraction " means with regard to the 
calculation of the amount of interest for 
any period of time (the " Calculation 
Period ") the actual number of days in 
the Calculation Period divided by the 
actual number of days in the respective 
interest p eriod.  
"Zinsperiode " bezeichnet den Zeitraum 
ab dem Verzinsungsbeginn 
(einschließlich) bis zum ersten 
Zinszahlungstag (ausschließlich) und 
danach ab dem jeweiligen 
Zinszahlungstag (einschließlich) bis 
zum nächstfolgenden Zinszahlungstag 
(ausschließlich).   "Interest Period " means the period from 
and including the Interest 
Commencement Date to but excluding 
the first Interest Payment Date and 
thereafter from, and including, each 
relevant Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest 
Payment Date.  
§ 4 
ZAHLUNGEN   § 4 
PAYMENTS  
(1) Zahlungen . Zahlungen von Kapital und 
Zinsen auf die Schuldverschreibungen 
erfolgen, nach Maßgabe des 
nachstehenden Absatzes  (2), an das 
Clearing -System oder dessen Order zur 
Gutschrift auf den Konten der 
jeweiligen Kontoinhaber des Clearing -
Systems außerhalb der Vereinigten 
Staaten.   (1) Payments . Payments of principal and 
interest in respect of the Notes shall be 
made, subject to subparagraph (2) 
below, to the Clearing System or to its 
order for credit to  the accounts of the 
relevant account holders of the Clearing 
System outside the United States.  
Die Zahlung von Zinsen auf 
Schuldverschreibungen, die durch die 
Vorläufige Globalurkunde verbrieft 
sind, erfolgt nach Maßgabe von Absatz 
(2) an das Clearing -System oder dessen 
Order zur Gutschrift auf den Konten der 
jeweiligen Kontoinhaber des Clearing -
Systems, und zwar nach 
ordnungsgemäßer Bescheinigung gemäß 
§ 1 Absatz ( 2) (b).   Payment of interest on Notes represented 
by the Temporary Global Note shall be 
made, subject to subparagraph (2), to the 
Clearing System or to its order for credit 
to the accounts of the relevant account 
holders of the Clearing System, upon due 
certification as provided in § 1(2)(b). 
(2) Zahlungsweise . Vorbehaltlich geltender 
steuerlic her und sonstiger gesetzlicher 
Regelungen und Vorschriften erfolgen 
zu leistende Zahlungen auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen in der 
Festgelegten Währung.   (2) Manner of Payment . Subject to 
applicable fiscal and other laws and 
regulations, payments of amounts due in 
respect of the Notes shall be made in the 
Specified Currency.  
(3) Erfüllung . Die Emittentin bzw. die 
Garantin wird durch Leistung der 
Zahlung an das Clearing -System oder  (3) Discharge . The Issuer or, as the case 
may be, the Guarantor shall be 
 
- 49 - 
 dessen Order von ihrer Zahlungspflicht 
gemäß den Schuldverschreibungen  
befreit.  discharged by payment to, or to the 
order of, the Clearing System.  
(4) Kein Verzug . Soweit rechtlich  zulässig, 
gerät die Emittentin mit ihrer  
Zahlungspflicht nicht in Verzug, wenn  
die Zahlung aufgrund eines Gesetzes  
oder einer Vorschrift nicht an die  
Zahlstelle oder das Clearing System  
geleistet wird und die Emittentin die  
Zahlung an die Zahlstelle oder das  
Clearing System nicht mit zumutbaren  
Maßnahmen bewirken kann. In diesem  
Fall ist eine Kündigung der  
Schuldverschreibungen nach  § 9 
Absatz  (1)(a) insoweit nicht  möglich. 
Zur Klarstellung: Die  Emittentin ist in 
keinem Fall  verpflichtet, direkt an einen 
Gläubiger  zu zahlen.   (4) No Default . To th e extent legally  
permissible, the Issuer shall not be in  
default of its payment obligation under  
the Notes if payment to the Fiscal  Agent 
or the Clearing System is not  effected 
due to any law or regulation  provided 
that the Issuer cannot effect  payment to 
the Fiscal Agent or the  Clearing System 
by reasonable means.  In such case, a 
termination of the  Notes pursuant to 
§ 9(1)(a) shall not be  possible to this 
extent. For the  avoidance of doubt, in no 
event shall  the Issuer be obligated to pay 
directly  to any Holder.  
(5) Vereinigte Staaten . Für die Zwecke 
dieser Emissionsbedingungen 
bezeichnet " Vereinigte Staaten " die 
Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika 
(einschließlich deren Bundesstaaten und 
des District of Columbia) sowie deren 
Territorien (einschließlich Pu erto Ricos, 
der U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, 
American Samoa, Wake Island und 
Northern Mariana Islands).   (5) United States . For the purposes of these 
Terms and Conditions " United States " 
means the United States of America 
(including the States thereof and th e 
District of Columbia) and its 
possessions (including Puerto Rico, the 
U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American 
Samoa, Wake Island and Northern 
Mariana Islands).  
(6) Geschäftstag . Fällt der Fälligkeitstag 
einer Zahlung in Bezug auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen a uf einen Tag, 
der kein Geschäftstag ist, dann hat der 
Gläubiger keinen Anspruch auf Zahlung 
vor dem nächsten Geschäftstag am 
jeweiligen Geschäftsort. Der Gläubiger 
ist nicht berechtigt, etwaige Zahlungen 
aufgrund dieser Verspätung zu 
verlangen. Für diese Z wecke bezeichnet 
"Geschäftstag " jeden Tag (außer einem 
Samstag oder Sonntag), an dem das 
Clearing -System sowie alle betroffenen 
Bereiche des T 2 oder dessen Nachfolger 
oder Ersatzsystem Zahlungen 
abwickeln.   (6) Business Day . If the date for payment of 
any amount in respect of the Notes is not 
a Business Day then the Holder shall not 
be entitled to payment until the next 
such day in the relevant place and shall 
not be entitled to any payment in respect 
of such delay. For these purposes, 
"Business Day " means any day (other 
than a Saturday or a Sunday) on which 
the Clearing System  as well as all 
relevant parts of the T 2 or any 
successor/replacement system settle 
payments.  
(7) Bezugnahmen auf Kapital und Zinsen . 
Bezugnahmen in diesen 
Emissionsbedingungen auf Kapital der 
Schuldverschreibungen schließen, 
soweit anwendbar, die folgenden 
Beträge ein: den Rückzahlungsbetrag; 
den vorzeitigen Rückzahlungsbetrag; 
den Make -Whole Rückzahlungsbetrag, 
sowie jeden Aufschlag sowie sonstige 
auf oder in Bezug auf die 
Schu ldverschreibungen zahlbaren 
Beträge. Bezugnahmen in diesen  (7) References to Principal and Interest . 
Referen ces in these Terms and 
Conditions to principal in respect of the 
Notes shall be deemed to include, as 
applicable: the Final Redemption 
Amount; the Early Redemption 
Amount; the Make -Whole Redemption 
Amount, and any premium and any 
other amounts which may be  payable 
under or in respect of the Notes. 
References in these Terms and 
Conditions to interest in respect of the 
 
- 50 - 
 Emissionsbedingungen auf Zinsen auf 
die Schuldverschreibungen schließen, 
soweit anwendbar, sämtliche gemäß § 7 
zahlbaren Zusätzlichen Beträge ein.  Notes shall be deemed to include, as 
applicable, any Additional Amounts 
which may be payable under § 7. 
(8) Hinterlegungen . Die Emittentin is t 
berechtigt, beim Amtsgericht München 
Zins- oder Kapitalbeträge zu 
hinterlegen, die von den Gläubigern 
nicht innerhalb von zwölf Monaten nach 
dem Fälligkeitstag beansprucht worden 
sind, auch wenn die Gläubiger sich nicht 
in Annahmeverzug befinden. Soweit 
eine solche Hinterlegung erfolgt und auf 
das Recht der Rücknahme verzichtet 
wird, erlöschen die diesbezüglichen 
Ansprüche der Gläubiger gegen die 
Emittentin.   (8) Deposits . The Issuer may deposit with 
the local court ( Amtsgericht ) in Munich 
principal or in terest or not claimed by 
Holders within twelve months after the 
Maturity Date, even though such 
Holders may not be in default of 
acceptance of payment. If and to the 
extent that the deposit is effected and the 
right of withdrawal is waived, the 
respective claims of such Holders 
against the Issuer shall cease.  
§ 5 
RÜCKZAHLUNG   § 5 
REDEMPTION  
(1) Rückzahlung bei Endfälligkeit . Soweit 
nicht zuvor bereits ganz oder teilweise 
zurückgezahlt oder angekauft und 
entwertet, werden die 
Schuldverschreibungen am 
5. April  2026  (der "Fälligkeitstag ") zu 
ihrem Rückzahlungsbetrag 
zurückgezahlt. Der 
"Rückzahlungsbetrag " entspricht dem 
Nennbet rag der Schuldverschreibungen.   (1) Redemption at Maturity . Unless 
previously redeemed in whole or in part 
or purchased and cancelled, the Notes 
shall be redeemed at their Final 
Redemption Amount  on April 5,  2026  
(the "Maturity Date "). The " Final 
Redemption Amount " in respect of 
each Note shall be its principal a mount.  
(2) Vorzeitige Rückzahlung aus 
steuerlichen Gründen . Die 
Schuldverschreibungen können 
insgesamt, jedoch nicht teilweise, nach 
Wahl der Emittentin mit einer 
Kündigungsfrist von nicht weniger als 
30 und nicht mehr als 60 Tagen durch 
Erklärung gegenüb er de r 
Emissionsstelle und gemäß § 12 
gegenüber den Gläubigern vorzeitig 
gekündigt und zu ihrem vorzeitigen 
Rückzahlungsbetrag (wie nachfolgend 
definiert) zuzüglich bis zum für die 
Rückzahlung festgesetzten Tag 
aufgelaufener Zinsen zurückgezahlt 
werden, fa lls die Emittentin oder die 
Garantin als Folge einer Änderung oder 
Ergänzung der Steuer - oder 
Abgabengesetze und -vorschriften der 
Bundesrepublik Deutschland oder der 
Niederlande oder deren politischen 
Untergliederungen oder Steuerbehörden 
oder als Folge e iner Änderung oder 
Ergänzung der Anwendung oder der 
offiziellen Auslegung  der zuständigen 
Steuerbehörden oder Gerichte dieser 
Gesetze und Vorschriften 
(vorausgesetzt, diese Änderung oder  (2) Early Redemption  for Reasons of 
Taxation . If as a result of any change in, 
or amendment to, the laws or regulations 
of the Federal Republic of Germany or 
the Netherlands or any political 
subdivision or taxing authority thereto 
or therein affecting taxation or the 
obligati on to pay duties of any kind, or 
any change in, or amendment to, an 
official interpretation or application  by 
the competent taxing authority or courts  
of such laws or regulations, which 
amendment or change is effective on or 
after the date on which the las t tranche 
of this series of Notes was issued, the 
Issuer, respectively the Guarantor, is 
required to pay Additional Amounts (as 
defined in § 7) on the next succeeding 
Interest Payment Date (as defined in 
§ 3 (1)), and this obligation cannot be 
avoided by t he use of reasonable 
measures available to the Issuer, 
respectively the Guarantor, as the case 
may be, the Notes may be redeemed, in 
whole but not in part, at the option of the 
Issuer, upon not more than 60 days' nor 
less than 30 days' prior notice of 
redemption given to the Fiscal Agent 
 
- 51 - 
 Ergänzung wird am oder nach dem Tag, 
an dem die letzte Tranche dieser Serie 
von Schuldverschreibungen begeben 
wird, wirksam) am nächstfolgenden 
Zinszahlungstag (wie in § 3 (1) 
definiert) z ur Zahlung von Zusätzlichen 
Beträgen (wie in § 7 definiert) 
verpflichtet sein wird und diese 
Verpflichtung nicht durch das Ergreifen 
zumutbarer, der Emittentin bzw. der 
Garantin zur Verfügung stehender 
Maßnahmen vermieden werden kann.  and, in accordance with § 12 to the 
Holders, at their Early Redemption 
Amount (as defined below), together 
with interest accrued to the date fixed 
for redemption.  
Eine solche Kündigung darf allerdings 
nicht (i) früher als 90 Tage vor dem 
frühestmöglichen Termin erfolgen, an 
dem die Emittentin bzw. die Garantin 
verpflichtet wäre, solche Zusätzlichen 
Beträge zu zahlen, falls eine Zahlung auf 
die Schuldverschreibungen dann fällig 
sein würde, oder (ii) erfolgen, wenn zu 
dem Zei tpunkt, zu dem die Kündigung 
erklärt wird, die Verpflichtung zur 
Zahlung von Zusätzlichen Beträgen 
nicht mehr wirksam ist.   However, no such notice of redemption 
may be given (i) earlier than 90 days 
prior to the earliest date on which the 
Issuer or the Gu arantor would be 
obligated to pay such Additional 
Amounts were a payment in respect of 
the Notes then due, or (ii) if at the time 
such notice is given, such obligation to 
pay such Additional Amounts does not 
remain in effect.  
Eine solche Kündigung hat gem äß § 12 
zu erfolgen. Sie ist unwiderruflich, muss 
den für die Rückzahlung festgelegten 
Termin nennen und eine 
zusammenfassende Erklärung enthalten, 
welche die das Rückzahlungsrecht der 
Emittentin begründenden Umstände 
darlegt.   Any such notice shall be giv en in 
accordance with § 12. It shall be 
irrevocable, must specify the date fixed 
for redemption and must set forth a 
statement in summary form of the facts 
constituting the basis for the right of the 
Issuer so to redeem.  
(3) Vorzeitige Rückzahlung nach Wa hl der 
Emittentin .  (3) Early Redemption at the Option of the 
Issuer . 
(a) Die Emittentin kann, nachdem sie 
gemäß Absatz (b) gekündigt hat, die 
Schuldverschreibungen insgesamt oder 
teilweise innerhalb des/der Wahl -
Rückzahlungszeitraum (Call) zum 
vorzeitigen Rückzahlungsbetrag (wie 
nachstehend definiert) nebst etwaigen 
bis zum Wahl -Rückzahlungstag (Call) 
(ausschließlich) aufgelaufenen Zinsen 
zurückzahlen.   (a) The Issuer may, upon notice given in 
accordance with  clause (b), redeem all 
or some only of the Notes within the 
Call Redemption Period at their Early 
Redemption Amount (as defined below) 
together with accrued interest, if any, to 
(but excluding) the Call Redemption 
Date.  
"Wahl -Rückzahlungszeitraum (Call) " 
bezeichnet in Bezug auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen den Zeitraum ab 
dem 5. März  2026  (einschließlich) bis 
zum Fälligkeitstag (ausschließlich).   "Call Redemption Period " means in 
relation to the Notes the period from, and 
including March 5, 2026  to, but 
excluding, the Maturity Date.  
(b) Die Kündigung ist gegenüber de r 
Emissionsstelle und den Gläubigern 
durch die Emittentin gemäß § 12 
bekanntzugeben. Sie beinhaltet die 
folgenden Angaben:   (b) Notice of redemption shall be given by 
the Issuer to the Fiscal Ag ent and,  in 
accordance with § 12 to the Holders . 
Such notice shall specify:  
 
- 52 - 
 (i) die zurückzuzahlende Serie 
von Schuldverschreibungen;   (i) the series of Notes subject to 
redemption;  
(ii) eine Erklärung, ob diese Serie 
ganz oder teilweise 
zurückgezahlt wird und im 
letzteren Fall den 
Gesamtnennbetrag der 
zurückzuzahlenden 
Schuldverschreibungen; und   (ii) whether such series is to be 
redeemed in whole or in part 
only and, if in part only, the 
aggregate principal amount of 
the Notes which are to be 
redeemed; and  
(iii) den Wahl -Rückzahlungstag 
(Call), der nicht weniger als 30 
und nicht mehr als 60 Tage 
nach dem Tag der Kündigung 
durch die Emittentin 
gegenüber den Gläubigern 
liegen darf.   (iii) the Call Redemption Date, 
which shall be not less t han 30 
nor more than 60 days after the 
date on which notice is given 
by the Issuer to the Holders.  
"Wahl -Rückzahlungstag (Call) " 
bezeichnet den Tag, der für die 
Rückzahlung der 
Schuldverschreibungen gemäß 
§ 5 (3) (b) festgesetzt wurde.   "Call Redemption Date " means the date 
fixed for redemption of the Notes 
pursuant to §5 (3) (b).  
Wenn die Schuldverschreibungen nur 
teilweise zurückgezahlt werden, werden 
die zurückzuzahlenden 
Schuldverschreibungen in 
Übereinstimmung mit den Regeln des 
betreffenden Clearing -Systems 
ausgewählt.   In the case of a partial redemption of 
Notes, Notes to be redeemed shall be 
selected in accordance with the rules of 
the relevant Clearing System.  
(4) Vorzeitiger Rückzahlungsbetrag . 
Für die Zwecke der Absätze (2 ) und (3) 
dieses § 5 und des § 9, entspricht der 
"vorzeitige Rückzahlungsbetrag " 
einer Schuldverschreibung dem 
Rückzahlungsbetrag.   (4) Early Redemption Amount . 
For purposes of subparagraphs (2) and 
(3) of this § 5 and § 9, the " Early 
Redemption Amount " of a Note shall 
be its Final Redemption Amount.  
(5) Vorzeitige Rückzahlung nach Wahl der 
Emittentin bei geringem ausstehendem 
Nennbetrag . Falls die Emittentin 
Schuldverschreibungen in einem 
Gesamtnennbetrag von 80 % oder mehr 
des ursprünglich begebenen 
Gesa mtnennbetrages der 
Schuldverschreibungen hält, kann die 
Emittentin die verbleibenden 
Schuldverschreibungen (insgesamt, 
jedoch nicht teilweise) jederzeit mit 
einer Frist von nicht weniger als 
30 Tagen durch Erklärung gegenüber 
der Emissionsstelle und gemäß § 12 
gegenüber den Gläubigern kündigen 
und zum Rückzahlungsbetrag nebst 
etwaiger bis zum Rückzahlungstag 
(ausschließlich) aufgelaufener Zinsen 
zurückzahlen.   (5) Early Redemption for Reason of 
Minimal Outstanding Amount . In the 
event that the Issuer holds Notes equal 
to or in excess of 80 % of the aggregate 
principal amount of the Notes initially 
issued, the Issuer may call and redeem 
the remaining Notes (in whole but not in 
part) at any time upon giving not less 
than 30 days' prior notice of redemption 
to the Fiscal Agent and, in accordance 
with § 12 to the Holders, at the Final 
Redemption Amount plus accrued 
interest until the date of redemption 
(excluding).  
 
- 53 - 
 (6) Kontrollwechsel . Tritt ein 
Kontrollwechsel ein und kommt es 
innerhalb des Kontrollwechselzeitr aums 
zu einer Absenkung des Ratings auf 
Grund des eingetretenen 
Kontrollwechsels (zusammen, ein 
"Rückzahlungsereignis "), hat jeder 
Gläubiger das Recht (sofern nicht die 
Emittentin, bevor die nachstehend 
beschriebene Rückzahlungsmitteilung 
gemacht wird, die  Rückzahlung der 
Schuldverschreibungen nach § 5 (2), 
(3), (5)  oder (7) angezeigt hat), am 
Rückzahlungstag  (Kontrollwechsel) die 
Rückzahlung seiner 
Schuldverschreibungen durch die 
Emittentin  zu 101 % des  Nennbetrag s, 
zuzüglich bis zum Rückzahlungstag  
(Kontrollwechsel)  aufgelaufener Zinsen 
(ausschließlich), zu verlangen.   (6) Change of Control . If there occurs a 
Change of Control and within the 
Change of Control Period a Rating 
Downgrade in respect of that Change of 
Control occurs (toget her called a " Put 
Event "), each Holder will have the 
option (unless, prior to the giving of the 
Put Event Notice referred to below, the 
Issuer gives notice to redeem the Notes 
in accordance with § 5(2), (3) , (5) or (7)) 
to require the Issuer to redeem that  Note 
on the Redemption Date  (Change of 
Control)  at 101% of the principal 
amount together with interest accrued to 
but excluding the Redemption Date  
(Change of Control) . 
Für Zwecke dieses Wahlrechts:   For the purposes of such option:  
"Rating Agentur " bezeichnet jeweils 
S&P Global Inc. ("S&P ") und 
Moody's  Investors Service, Inc. 
("Moody's ") und jede ihrer jeweiligen 
Tochter - oder Nachfolgegesellschaften 
oder jede andere Rating Agentur 
vergleichbaren internationalen 
Ansehens, wie von Zeit zu Zei t durch die 
Emittentin bestimmt;   "Rating Agency " means each of 
S&P  Global Inc. (" S&P ") and Moody's  
Investors Services (" Moody's ") or any 
of their respective subsidiaries or 
successors or any other rating agency of 
equivalent international standing 
specified from time to time by the Issuer;  
Gilt eine " Absenkung des Ratings " in 
Bezug auf einen Kontrollwechsel als 
eingetreten, wenn (a) innerhalb des 
Kontrollwechselzeitraums ein vorher für 
die Garantin oder die 
Schuldverschreibungen vergebenes 
Rating e iner Rating Agentur 
(i) zurückgezogen oder (ii) von einem 
Investment Grade Rating (BBB - von 
S&P/Baa3 von Moody's oder jeweils 
gleichwertig, oder besser) in ein non -
Investment Grade Rating (BB+ von 
S&P/Ba1 von Moody's oder jeweils 
gleichwertig, oder schlech ter) geändert 
oder (iii) (falls das für die 
Schuldverschreibungen vergebene 
Rating einer Rating Agentur unterhalb 
des Investment Grade Ratings liegt) um 
einen ganzen Punkt (von BB+ nach BB 
von S&P oder Ba1 nach Ba2 von 
Moody's oder eine ähnliche Absenkung 
eines gleichwertigen Ratings) abgesenkt 
wird oder (b) zur Zeit des 
Kontrollwechsels kein Rating für die 
Schuldverschreibungen oder die 
Garantin vergeben ist und keine Rating 
Agentur während des 
Kontrollwechselzeitraums ein  A " Rating Downgrade " shall be 
deemed to have occurred in respect of a 
Change of Control (a) if within the 
Change of Control Period any rating 
previously assigned to the Guarantor or 
the Notes by any Rating Agency is 
(i) withdrawn or (ii) changed from an 
investment grade rating (BBB - by 
S&P/Baa3 by Moody's, or its equivalent 
for the time being, or better) to a non -
investment grade rating (BB+ by 
S&P/Ba1 by Moody's, or its equivalent 
for the time being, or worse) or 
(iii) (if the rating assigned to the Notes 
by any Rating Agency shall be be low an 
investment grade rating) lowered one 
full rating notch (from BB+ to BB by 
S&P or Ba1 to Ba2 by Moody's or such 
similar lower of equivalent rating) or 
(b) if at the time of the Change of 
Control, there is no rating assigned to the 
Notes or the Guaran tor and no Rating 
Agency assigns during the Change of 
Control Period an investment grade 
credit rating to the Notes (unless the 
Guarantor  is unable to obtain such a 
rating within such period having used all 
reasonable endeavours to do so and such 
 
- 54 - 
 Investment Grade Rating für die 
Schuldverschreibungen vergibt (es sei 
denn, die Garantin ist trotz zumutbarer 
Anstrengungen innerhalb dieses 
Zeitraums nicht in der Lage, ein solches 
Rating zu erhalten, ohne dass dies seine 
Ursache im Kontrollwechsel hat);  failure i s unconnected with the 
occurrence of the Change of Control);  
Gilt ein " Kontrollwechsel " jedes Mal 
als eingetreten, wenn eine Person oder 
mehrere Personen (die " relevante(n) 
Person(en) "), die abgestimmt handeln, 
oder einer oder mehrere Dritte, die im 
Auftr ag der relevanten Person(en) 
handeln, zu irgendeiner Zeit mittelbar 
oder unmittelbar (unabhängig davon, ob 
der Vorstand oder der Aufsichtsrat der 
Garantin  seine Zustimmung erteilt hat) 
(i) mehr als 50  % des ausstehenden 
Grundkapitals der Garantin  oder (ii)  eine 
solche Anzahl von Aktien der Garantin  
hält bzw. halten oder erworben hat bzw. 
haben, auf die mehr als 50  % der 
Stimmrechte entfallen;   A "Change of Control " shall be deemed 
to have occurred at each time (whether 
or not approved by the Management 
Boar d or Supervisory Board of the 
Guarantor) that any person or persons 
("Relevant Person(s) ") acting in concert 
or any person or persons acting on behalf 
of any such Relevant Person(s), at any 
time directly or indirectly acquire(s) or 
come(s) to own (i) more than 50 % of the 
issued ordinary share capital of the 
Guarantor  or (ii) such number of the 
shares in the capital of the Guarantor  
carrying more than 50  % of the voting 
rights;  
Ist der " Kontrollwechselzeitraum " der 
Zeitraum, der 90 Tage nach dem Eintritt 
eines Kontrollwechsels endet; und   "Change of Control Period " means the 
period ending 90 days after the 
occurrence of the Change of Control; 
and 
Ist der " Rückzahlungstag  
(Kontrollwechsel) " der siebte Tag nach 
dem letzten Tag des 
Rückzahlungszeitraums.   The " Redemption Date  (Change of 
Control) " is the seventh day after the 
last day of the Put Period.  
Sofort nachdem die Emittentin von 
einem Rückzahlungsereignis Kenntnis 
erlangt, wird die Emittentin den 
Gläubigern gemäß § 12 Mitteil ung vom 
Rückzahlungsereignis machen (eine 
"Rückzahlungsmitteilung "), in der die 
Umstände des Rückzahlungsereignisses 
sowie das Verfahren für die Ausübung 
des in diesem § 5 (6) genannten 
Wahlrechts angegeben sind.   Promptly upon the Issuer becoming 
aware th at a Put Event has occurred, the 
Issuer shall give notice (a " Put Event 
Notice ") to the Holders in accordance 
with § 12 specifying the nature of the Put 
Event and the circumstances giving rise 
to it and the procedure for exercising the 
option set out in th is § 5 (6). 
Zur Ausübung dieses Wahlrechts muss 
der Gläubiger während der normalen 
Geschäftsstunden innerhalb eines 
Zeitraums 
(der "Rückzahlungszeitraum ") von 
45 Tagen, nachdem die 
Rückzahlungsmitteilung veröffentlicht 
ist, eine ordnungsgemäß ausgefüllte und 
unterzeichnete Ausübungserklärung bei 
der angegebenen Niederlassung der 
Emissionsstelle einreichen 
(die "Ausübungserklärung "), die in 
ihrer jeweils maßgeblichen Form bei der 
angegebenen Niederlassung der 
Emissionsstelle erhältlich ist. Ein so  In order to exercise such option, the 
Holder must submit during normal 
business hours at the specified office of 
the Fiscal Agent a duly comp leted option 
exercise notice (" Exercise Notice ") in 
the form available from the specified 
office of the Fiscal Agent within the 
period (the " Put Period ") of 45 days 
after a Put Event Notice is given. No 
option so exercised may be revoked or 
withdrawn witho ut the prior consent of 
the Issuer.  
 
- 55 - 
 ausgeübtes Wahlrecht kann nicht ohne 
vorherige Zustimmung der Emittentin 
widerrufen oder zurückgezogen werden.  
(7) Vorzeitige Rückzahlung zum Make -
Whole Rückzahlungsbetrag .  (7) Early Redemption at the Make -Whole 
Redemption Amount . 
(a) Die Emittentin kann, nachdem sie 
gemäß § 5 (7)(f) gekündigt hat, die 
Schuldverschreibungen insgesamt oder 
teilweise jederzeit bis zum Make -Whole 
Wahlrückzahlungstag (ausschließlich), 
zurückzahlen.   (a) The Issuer may, upon notice given in 
accordance with § 5 (7)(f), redeem all or 
some only of the  Notes at any time to but 
excluding the Make -Whole Call 
Redemption Date . 
Die gemäß diesem § 5(7) 
zurückzuzahlenden 
Schuldverschreibungen werden zum 
Make -Whole Rückzahlungsbetrag 
zuzüglich etwaiger bis zu m Make -
Whole Wahlr ückzahlungstag 
(ausschließlich) au fgelaufener Zinsen 
zurückgezahlt.   Notes to be redeemed pursuant to this 
§ 5(7) will be redeemed at their Make -
Whole  Redemption Amount together 
with interest, if any, accrued to but 
excluding the Make -Whole Call 
Redemption Date . 
(b) Der " Make -Whole 
Rückzahlungsbetrag " je 
Schuldverschreibung entspricht dem 
höheren der folgenden Beträge:   (b) The " Make -Whole Redemption 
Amount " per Note shall be the higher 
of: 
(i) der Festgelegten Stückelung; 
oder  (i) the Specified Denomination; or  
(ii) dem Abgezinsten Marktwert.   (ii) the Present Value.  
Der Make -Whole Rückzahlungsbetrag 
wird von der Make -Whole 
Berechnungsstelle berechnet.   The Make -Whole Redemption Amount 
shall be calculated by the Make -Whole 
Calculation Agent.  
(c) Der " Abgezinste Marktwert " ist die 
Summe aus   (c) The " Present Value " will be the sum of  
(i) dem auf den Rückzahlungstag 
abgezinsten Wert de r 
Festgelegten Stückelung  der 
zurückzuzahlenden 
Schuldverschreibung, wobei 
unterstellt wird, dass die 
Schuldverschreibun gen am 
5. März  2026  zurückgezahlt 
würden ; und   (i) the Specified Denomination to 
be redeemed assuming for this 
purpose that the Notes would 
be redeemed on March 5,  2026  
discounted to the Make -Whole 
Call Redemption Date ; and  
(ii) den jeweil igen auf den 
Rückzahlungstag abgezinsten 
Wert der verbleibenden 
Zinszahlungen, die ansonsten 
an jedem Zinszahlungstag nach 
dem Make -Whole 
Wahlrückzahlungstag bis zum 
5. März  2026  (einschließlich) 
(wobei unterstellt wird, dass 
der Zinslauf a m 5. März  2026  
(auss chließlich) endet) fällig  (ii) the remaining interest 
payments which would 
otherwise become due on each 
Interest Payment Date falling 
after the Make -Whole Call 
Redemption Date  to and 
including March 5,  2026  
(assuming for this purpose that 
interest would cease to accrue 
on but excluding 
March  5, 2026 ) (excluding any 
 
- 56 - 
 werden würden (ausschließlich 
etwaiger, bis zum Make -
Whole Wahlrückzahlungstag  
(ausschließlich) aufgelaufener 
Zinsen).  interest accrued to but 
excluding the Make -Whole 
Call Redemption Date ), each 
discounted to the redemption 
date.  
(d) Die Make -Whole Berechnungsstelle 
errechnet den Abgezinsten Marktwert 
gemäß der Marktkonvention auf einer 
Grun dlage, die der Berechnung von 
Zinsen gemäß § 3 entspricht, unter 
Anwendung eines Abzinsungssatzes, 
welcher  der Benchmark -Rendite 
zuzüglich 0,250  % entspricht.   (d) The Make -Whole Calculation Agent 
will calculate the Present Value in 
accordance with market convention on a 
basis which is consistent with the 
calculation of interest as set out in § 3, 
using a discount rate equal to the 
Benchmark Yield plus 0.250  %. 
Die " Benchmark -Rendite " bezeichnet 
die am Rückzahlungs -Berechnungstag 
bestehende Rendite der entsprechenden 
Euro -Referenz -Anleihe der 
Bundesrepublik Deutschland  wie gegen 
12:00 Uhr mittags  (Frankfurter Zeit) an 
diesem Tag auf der Bloomberg Seite  
DE0001102390  Govt HP (unter Nutz ung 
der Einstellung "Last Yield to 
Convention" und der Preisquelle 
"FRNK")  abgelesen, oder wie von einer 
anderen, durch die Make -Whole 
Berechnungsstelle festgelegten, Quelle 
hergeleitet oder veröffentlicht  oder sollte 
die Rendite zu diesem Zeitpunkt nicht 
verfügbar sein, bezeichnet die 
Benchmark -Rendite eine ersetzende 
Referenzanleihe, die von der Make -
Whole Berechnungsstelle festgesetzt 
wird, die jeweils mit einer Laufzeit, die 
mit der verbleibenden Restlaufzeit der 
Schuldverschreibung bis zum 
Endfälligkei tstag vergleichbar ist, und 
die im Zeitpunkt der 
Auswahlentscheidung und entsprechend 
der üblichen Finanzmarktpraxis zur 
Preisbestimmung bei Neuemissionen 
von Unternehmensanleihen mit einer bis 
zum Endfälligkeitstag der 
Schuldverschreibung vergleichbaren 
Laufzeit verwendet werden würde.   The " Benchmark Yield " means the 
yield at the Redemption Calculation 
Date of the corresponding euro 
denominated benchmark debt security of 
the Federal Republic of Germany , as 
observed at around noon  (Frankfurt 
time)  on such date on Bloomberg page 
DE0001102390  Govt HP (using the 
setting "Last Yield to Convention" and 
using the pricing source  "FRNK"), or as 
derived or published by such other 
source as determined by the Make -
Whole Calculation Agent , and if such 
yield is not avai lable at that time the 
Benchmark Yield shall be the yield of a 
substitute benchmark security chosen by 
the Make -Whole Calculation Agent, in 
each case as having a maturity 
comparable to the remaining term of the 
Note to the Maturity Date, that would be 
used at the time of selection and in 
accordance with customary financial 
practice, in pricing new issues of 
corporate debt securities of comparable 
maturity to the Maturity Date.  
"Rückzahlungs -Berechnungstag " ist 
der sechste Geschäftstag vor dem Tag, 
an dem die Schuldverschreibungen 
gemäß diesem § 5(7) zurückgezahlt 
werden.   "Redemption Calculation Date " means 
the sixth Business Day prior to the date 
on which the Notes are redeemed in 
accordance with this § 5(7).  
(e) Die Emittentin hat am Rückzahlungs -
Berechnungstag unmittelbar nach 
Bestimmung des Make -Whole 
Rückzahlungsbetrags durch die Make -
Whole Berechnungsstelle diesen den 
Anleihegläubigern durch 
Veröffentlichung einer  (e) The Issuer shall on the Redemption 
Calculation Date immediately after the 
Make -Whole Redemption Amount has 
been fixed by the Make -Whole 
Calculation Agent notify such Make -
Whole Redemption Amount to the 
Holders in accordance with § 12. 
 
- 57 - 
 Bekanntmachung gemäß § 12 bekannt 
zu machen.  
(f) Die Kündigung ist der Emissionsstelle 
und gemäß § 12 den Anleihegläubigern 
mit einer Kündigungsfrist von nicht 
weniger als 30 Tagen bekannt zu geben. 
Sie ist unwiderruflich und beinhaltet die 
folgenden Angaben:   (f) Notice of redemption shall be given by 
the Issuer to the Fiscal Agent and, in 
accordance with § 12, to the Holders on 
giving not less than 30 days' prior notice 
of redemption. Such notice shall be 
irrevocable and shall specify:  
(i) die zurückzuzahlende Serie 
von Schuldverschreibungen;   (i) the series of Notes subject to 
redemption;  
(ii) den Rückzahlungstag, an dem 
die betreffenden 
Schuldverschreibungen 
zurückgezahlt werden  
(der "Make -Whole 
Wahlrückzahlungstag ") und  (ii) the redemption date on which 
the Notes wil l be redeemed  
(the " Make -Whole Call 
Redemption Date "); and  
(iii) den Namen und die 
Geschäftsstelle der Institution, 
welche durch die Emittentin als 
Make -Whole 
Berechnungsstelle ernannt 
wurde.   (iii) name and address of the 
institution appointed by the 
Issuer as Make -Whole 
Calculation Agent.  
§ 6 
DIE EMISSIONSSTELLE UND  
DIE ZAHLSTELLE   § 6 
THE FISCAL AGENT AND  
THE PAYING AGENT  
(1) Bestellung; bezeichnete Geschäftsstelle . 
Die anfänglich bestellte 
Emissionsstelle, die zugleich die 
Zahlstellenfunktion übernimmt, und 
ihre anfänglich bezeichneten  
Geschäftsstellen lauten wie folgt:   (1) Appointment; Specified Offices . The 
initial Fiscal Agent, which shall also 
carry out paying agent duties and their 
respective initial specified offices  are: 
Emissionsstelle und Zahlstelle :  Fiscal Agent and Paying Agent:  
BNP PARIBAS, Luxembourg Branch  
60 avenue J.F. Kennedy  
2085 Luxemburg  
Großherzogtum Luxembourg   BNP PARIBAS, Luxembourg Branch  
60 avenue J.F. Kennedy  
2085 Luxembourg  
Grand -Duchy of Luxembourg  
"Make -Whole Berechnungsstelle " 
bezeichnet eine unabhängige 
international anerkannte Bank oder eine 
unabhängige Finanzberaterin mit 
einschlägiger Expertise, die von der 
Emittentin auf eigene Kosten rechtzeitig 
vor Ausübung des Kündigungsrechts 
gemäß § 5 (7) ausgewählt und bestellt 
werden wird.   "Make -Whole Calculation Agent " 
means an independent bank of 
international standing or an independent 
financial adviser with relevant expertise, 
which will be selected and appointed by 
the Issuer at its own  expense in good 
time prior to the exercise of the call right 
in accordance with § 5 (7).  
Alle Bescheinigungen, Mitteilungen, 
Gutachten, Festsetzungen, 
Berechnungen, Quotierungen und 
Entscheidungen, die von der Make -
Whole Berechnungsstelle für die 
Zwecke des § 5 gemacht, abgegeben,  All certificates, communications, 
opinions, determinations, calculations, 
quotations and decisions given, 
expressed, made or obtained for the 
purposes of the provisions of § 5 by the 
Make -Whole Calculation Agent shall (in 
 
- 58 - 
 getroffen oder eingeholt werden, sind 
(sofern nicht ein offensi chtlicher Irrtum 
vorliegt) für die Emittentin, die 
Emissionsstelle, die Zahlstelle und die 
Gläubiger bindend.  the absence of manifest error) be binding 
on the Issuer, the Fiscal Agent, the 
Paying Agent and the Holders.  
Die Emissionsstelle, die Zahlstelle und 
die Make -Whole Berechnungsstelle 
behalten sich das Recht vor, jederzeit mit 
Zustimmung der Emittentin ihre 
bezeichneten Geschäftsstellen durch 
eine andere bezeichnete Geschäftsstelle 
in demselben Land zu ersetzen und  dies 
gemäß § 12 bekannt zu machen.   The Fiscal Agent, the Paying Agent and 
the Make -Whole Calculation Agent 
reserve the right at any time to change, 
with the approval of the Issuer, their 
respective specified offices to some 
other specified office in the same 
country upon giving notice thereof in 
accordance with § 12. 
(2) Änderung der Bestellung oder 
Abberufung . Die Emittentin behält sich 
das Recht vor, mit Zustimmung der 
Garantin  jederzeit die Bestellung der 
Emissionsstelle, der Zahlstelle  oder der 
Make -Whole Berechnungsstelle zu 
ändern oder zu beenden und eine andere 
Emissionsstelle, zusätzliche oder andere 
Zahlstellen oder eine andere Make -
Whole Berechnungsstelle zu bestellen. 
Die Emittentin wird zu jedem Zeitpunkt 
eine Emissionsstelle unterhalten. Die 
Emittentin wird die Gläubiger von jeder 
Änderung, Abberufung, Bestellung oder 
jedem sonstigen Wechsel so bald wie 
möglich nach Eintritt der Wirksamkeit 
einer solchen Veränderung informieren.   (2) Variation or Termination of 
Appointment . The Issuer reserves  the 
right subject to the consent of the 
Guarantor at any time to vary or 
terminate the appointment of the Fiscal 
Agent, the Paying Agent  or the Make -
Whole Calculation Agent and to appoint 
another Fiscal Agent, or additional or 
other paying agent or anothe r Make -
Whole Calculation Agent. The Issuer 
shall at all times maintain a fiscal agent. 
The Issuer will give notice to the 
Holders of any variation, termination, 
appointment or any other change as soon 
as possible upon the effectiveness of 
such change.  
(3) Erfüllungsgehilfen der Emittentin . Die 
Emissionsstelle, die Zahlstelle und  die 
Make -Whole Berechnungsstelle 
handeln ausschließlich als 
Erfüllungsgehilfen der Emittentin und 
übernehmen keinerlei Verpflichtungen 
gegenüber den Gläubigern und es wird 
kein Auf trags - oder Treuhandverhältnis 
zwischen ihnen und den Gläubigern 
begründet.   (3) Agents of the Issuer . The Fiscal Agent , 
the Paying Agent and the Make -Whole 
Calculation Agent act solely as agents of 
the Issuer and do not have any 
obligations towards or rel ationship of 
agency or trust to any Holder.  
§ 7 
STEUERN   § 7 
TAXATION  
(1) Sämtliche von der Emittentin oder der 
Garantin auf die Schuldverschreibungen 
zu zahlenden Beträge sind ohne 
Einbehalt oder Abzug von oder 
aufgrund von gegenwärtigen oder 
zukünftigen Steuern oder sonstigen 
Abgaben gleich welcher Art zu leisten, 
es sei denn, ein solcher Einbehalt oder 
Abzug ist gesetzlich vorgeschrieben. 
Sofern solche Steuern von oder in den 
Niederlanden oder der Bundesrepublik 
Deutschland oder für deren Rec hnung 
oder von oder für Rechnung einer dort 
zur Steuererhebung ermächtigten  (1) All amounts payable  by the Issuer or the 
Guarantor  in respect of the Notes shall 
be made without withholding or 
deduction for or on account of any 
present or future taxes or duties of 
whatever nature unless such 
withholding or deduction is required by 
law. In the event such taxes are imposed 
or levied by way of withholding or 
deduction by or in or for the account of 
the Netherlands or the Federal Republic 
of Germany or any political sub division 
or any authority thereof or therein 
having power to tax, the Issuer will pay 
 
- 59 - 
 Gebietskörperschaft oder Behörde 
auferlegt oder erhoben werden, wird die 
Emittentin diejenigen zusätzlichen 
Beträge (die " Zusätzlichen Beträg e") 
zahlen, die erforderlich sind, dami t die 
den Gläubigern zufließenden 
Nettobeträge nach diesem Einbehalt 
oder Abzug jeweils den Beträgen 
entsprechen, die ohne einen solchen 
Einbehalt oder Abzug von den 
Gläubigern empfangen worden wären; 
die Verpflichtung zur Zahlung solcher 
Zusätzlichen Betr äge besteht jedoch 
nicht im Hinblick auf Steuern und 
Abgaben, die:  such additional amounts 
(the "Additional Amounts ") as shall be 
necessary in order that the net amounts 
received by the Holders, after such 
withholding or deduction shall equal the 
respective amounts which would 
otherwise have been receivable in the 
absence of such withholding or 
deduction; except that no such 
Additional Amounts shall be payable on 
account of any taxes or duties which:  
(a) auf andere Weise als durch Einbeh alt 
oder Abzug von zahlbaren Beträgen zu 
entrichten sind; oder   (a) are payable otherwise than by 
withholding or deduction from amounts 
payable; or  
(b) wegen einer gegenwärtigen oder 
früheren persönlichen oder 
geschäftlichen Beziehung des 
Gläubigers zu de n Niederlanden oder 
der Bundesrepublik Deutschland zu 
zahlen sind, und nicht allein deshalb, 
weil Zahlungen auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen aus Quellen in 
den Niederlanden oder der 
Bundesrepublik Deutschland stammen 
(oder für Zwecke der Besteuerung so 
behand elt werden) oder dort besichert 
sind; oder   (b) are payable by reason of the Holder 
having, or having had, some personal or 
business connection with the 
Netherlands or the Federal Republic of 
Germany and not merely by reason of 
the fact that payments in re spect of the 
Notes are, or for purposes of taxation are 
deemed to be, derived from sources in, 
or are secured in the Netherlands or the 
Federal Republic of Germany; or  
(c) aufgrund einer Richtlinie oder 
Verordnung der Europäischen Union 
betreffend die Besteuerung von 
Zinserträgen oder einer 
zwischenstaatlichen Vereinbarung oder 
eines internationalen Abkommens über 
deren Besteuerung, an der die 
Bundesrepublik Deutschland oder an 
dem die Europäische Union beteiligt ist, 
oder einer gesetzlic hen Vorschrift, die 
diese Richtlinie, diese Verordnung, 
diese zwischenstaatliche Vereinbarung 
oder dieses internationale Abkommen 
umsetzt oder befolgt oder die eingeführt 
wurde, um dieser Richtlinie, dieser 
Verordnung, dieser zwischenstaatlichen 
Vereinbaru ng oder diesem 
internationalen Abkommen 
nachzukommen, von Zahlungen an eine 
natürliche Person oder eine sonstige 
Einrichtung einzubehalten oder 
abzuziehen sind; oder   (c) are withheld or deducted from a 
payment to an individual or a residual 
entity pursuan t to any European Union 
directive or regulation concerning the 
taxation of interest income, or any 
intergovernmental agreement or 
international agreement on the taxation 
of interest and to which the Federal 
Republic of Germany or the European 
Union is a pa rty, or any provision of law 
implementing, or complying with, or 
introduced to conform with, such 
directive, regulation, intergovernmental 
agreement or international agreement; 
or 
(d) aufgrund einer Rechtsänderung zu 
zahlen sind, welche später als 30 Tage  
nach Fälligkeit der betreffenden 
Zahlung von Kapital oder Zinsen oder,  (d) are payable by reason of a c hange in law 
that becomes effective more than 
30 days after the relevant payment of 
principal or interest becomes due, or, if 
 
- 60 - 
 wenn dies später erfolgt, 
ordnungsgemäßer Bereitstellung aller 
fälligen Beträge und einer 
diesbezüglichen Bekanntmachung 
gemäß § 12 wirksam wird; oder  later, is duly provided for and notice 
thereof is published in accordance with 
§ 12; or  
(e) von einer Zahlstelle abgezogen oder 
einbehalten werden, wenn eine andere 
Zahlstelle die Zahlung ohne einen 
solchen Abzug oder Einbehalt hätte 
leisten können; oder   (e) are deducted or withheld by a Paying 
Agent from a payment if the payment 
could have been made by another 
Paying Agent without such deduction or 
withholding; or  
(f) auf Grund des niederländischen 
Quellensteuergesetzes 2021 ( Wet 
bronbelasting 2021 ) einbehalten oder 
abgezogen werden; oder   (f) are deducted or withheld pursuant to the 
Dutch Withholding Tax Act 2021 ( Wet 
bron belasting 2021 ); or 
(g) jegliche Kombination der Absätze (a) -
(f).  (g) any combinations of items (a) -(f). 
(2) Unbeschadet sonstiger Bestimmungen 
dieser Emissionsbedingungen, ist die 
Emittentin zum Einbehalt oder Abzug 
der Beträge berechtigt, die gemäß 
§§ 1471 bis 1474 des U.S. Internal 
Revenue Code (einschließlich dessen 
Änderungen oder 
Nachfolgevorschriften), gemäß 
zwischenstaatlicher Abkommen, gemäß 
den in einer anderen Rechtsordnung in 
Zusammenhang mit diesen 
Bestimmungen erlassenen 
Durchführun gsvorschriften oder gemäß 
mit dem Internal Revenue Service 
geschlossenen Verträgen (" FATCA 
Quellensteuer ") erforderlich sind. Die 
Emittentin ist nicht verpflichtet, 
zusätzliche Beträge zu zahlen oder 
Gläubiger in Bezug auf FATCA 
Quellensteuer schadlos zu h alten, die 
von der Emittentin, einer Zahlstelle oder 
von einem anderen Beteiligten als Folge 
davon, dass eine andere Person als die 
Emittentin oder deren Zahlstelle nicht 
zum Empfang von Zahlungen ohne 
FATCA Quellensteuer berechtigt ist, 
abgezogen oder ein behalten wurden.   (2) Notwithstanding any other provision in 
these Terms and Conditions, the Issuer 
shall be permitted to withhold or deduct 
any amounts required by the rules of 
U.S. Internal Revenue Code § § 1471 
through 1474 (or any amended or 
successor p rovisions), pursuant to any 
inter-governmental agreement, or 
implementing legislation adopted by 
another jurisdiction in connection with 
these provisions, or pursuant to any 
agreement with the Internal Revenue 
Service (" FATCA Withholding "). The 
Issuer will  have no obligation to pay 
additional amounts or otherwise 
indemnify a holder for any FATCA 
Withholding deducted or withheld by 
the Issuer, any paying agent or any other 
party as a result of any person other than 
the Issuer or an agent of the Issuer not 
being entitled to receive payments free 
of FATCA Withholding.  
§ 8 
VORLEGUNGSFRIST   § 8 
PRESENTATION PERIOD  
Die in § 801 Absatz 1 Satz 1 BGB bestimmte 
Vorlegungsfrist wird für die 
Schuldverschreibungen auf zehn Jahre verkürzt.   The presentation period provided in § 801 
paragraph 1, sentence 1 BGB (German Civil 
Code) is reduced to ten years for the Notes.  
§ 9 
KÜNDIGUNG   § 9 
EVENTS OF DEFAULT  
(1) Kündigungsgründe . Jeder Gläubiger ist 
berechtigt, seine sämtlichen 
Forderungen aus d en  (1) Events of default . Each Holder shall be 
entitled to declare due and payable by 
notice to the Fiscal Agent its entire 
 
- 61 - 
 Schuldverschreibungen durch 
Kündigung gegenüber de r 
Emissionsstelle fällig zu stellen und die 
unverzügliche Rückzahlung zu ihrem 
vorzeitigen Rückzahlungsbetrag (wie in 
§ 5 beschrieben), zuzüglich etwaiger bis 
zum Tage der Rückzahlung 
aufgelaufener Zinse n zu verlangen, 
falls:  claims arising from the Notes and 
demand immediate redemption thereof 
at the Early Redemption Amount 
(as descri bed in § 5) together with 
accrued interest (if any) to the date of 
repayment, in the event that:  
(a) vorbehaltlich §  4 Absatz (4), die 
Emittentin auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen Kapital oder 
Zinsen nicht innerhalb von 15 Tagen 
nach dem betreffenden Tag der 
Fälligkeit zahlt; oder   (a) subject to §  4 (4), the Issuer fails to pay 
principal or interest under the Notes 
within 15 days from the relevant due 
date; or  
(b) die Emittentin die ordnungsgemäße 
Erfüllung einer sonstigen wesentlichen 
Verpflichtung aus den 
Schuldverschreibungen oder die 
Garantin die Erfüllung einer sonstigen 
wesentlichen Verpflichtung aus der 
Garantie unterlässt und diese 
Unterlassung – sofern sie geheilt 
werden kann  – länger als 45 Tage 
andauert, nachdem die Emissionsstelle 
hierüber eine Benachrichtigung von 
einem Gläubiger erhalten hat; oder   (b) the Issuer fails to duly perform any other 
material obligation arising from the 
Notes or the Guarantor fails to perform 
any other material obligation arising 
from the Guarantee and such failure – if 
capable of being remedied – continues 
for more than 45 days after the Fiscal 
Agent has received notice thereof from 
a Holder; or  
(c) die Emittentin , die Garantin oder eine 
Wesentliche Tochtergesellschaft ihre 
Zahlungsunfähigkeit bekannt gibt; oder   (c) the Issuer , the Guarantor and any 
Material Subsidiary  annou nces its 
inability to meet its financial 
obligation s; or 
(d) eine Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit der 
Emittentin oder der Garantin vorzeitig  
zahlbar wird aufgrund einer Nicht - oder 
Schlechterfüllung des dieser  
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit zugrunde  
liegenden Ve rtrags, oder die Emittentin 
oder die Garantin einer  
Zahlungsverpflichtung in Höhe oder im  
Gegenwert von mehr als 
EUR  75.000.000 aus  einer 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit der 
Emittentin oder der Garantin 
einschließlich Garantien oder 
Freistellungsansprüche n, die für eine 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit Dritter  
gegeben wurde n, nicht innerhalb von 
30 Tagen  nach ihrer Fälligkeit bzw. im 
Falle von Garantien oder 
Freistellungsansprüche n nicht innerhalb 
von 30 Tagen nach Inanspruchnahme 
aus diese n Garantien oder 
Freistellungsansprüche n nachkommt, es 
sei denn die Emittentin  oder die 
Garantin  bestreitet in gutem  Glauben, 
dass diese Zahlungsverpflichtung  
besteht oder fällig ist bzw. diese  (d) any Capital Market Indebtedness of the 
Issuer or the Guarantor becomes 
prematurely  repayabl e as a result of a 
default in respect of  the terms thereof, or 
the Issuer or the Guarantor fails to fulfil 
any payment obligation in excess of  
EUR  75,000,000 or the equivalent 
thereof  under any Capital Market 
Indebtedness or  under any guarantees 
and indemn ities given for  any Capital 
Market Indebtedness of a third party 
within 30  days from its due date or, in 
the case  of guarantees and indemnities, 
within 30  days after the guarantee and 
indemnit y has been  invoked, unless the 
Issuer  or the Guarantor , shall co ntest in  
good faith that such payment obligation 
exists  or is due or that such guarantee 
and indemnit y has been validly invoked, 
or if a Security  granted therefor is 
enforced on behalf of or by  the creditors 
entitled thereto ; or 
 
- 62 - 
 Garantie oder der Freistellungsanspr uch 
berechtigterweise geltend  gemacht 
wird,  oder falls eine für solche  
Verbindlichkeiten bestellte Sicherheit 
für die  Gläubiger oder von den daraus 
berechtigten  Gläubiger in Anspruch 
genommen wird ; oder  
(e) die Emittentin , die Garantin oder eine 
Wesentliche Tochtergesellschaft in 
Liquidation tritt, es sei denn, dies 
geschieht im Zusammenhang mit einer 
Verschmelzung, Konsolidierung oder 
einer anderen Form des 
Zusammenschlusses mit einer anderen 
Gesellschaft oder i m Zusammenhang 
mit einer Umwandlung, und diese 
andere oder neue Gesellschaft 
übernimmt alle Verpflichtungen, die die 
Emittentin oder die Garantin im 
Zusammenhang mit diesen 
Schuldverschreibungen und der 
Garantie eingegangen ist; oder   (e) the Issuer , the G uarantor and any 
Material Subsidiary  enters into 
liquidation except in connection with a 
merger, consolidation or other form of 
combination with another company or in 
connection with a reorganisation and 
such other or new company assumes all 
obligations un dertaken by the Issuer or 
the Guarantor under or in connection 
with the Notes and the Guarantee; or   
(f) (i) ein Gericht ein Insolvenzverfahren 
oder ein Vergleichsverfahren zur 
Abwendung der Insolvenz oder des 
Konkurses oder ein vergleichbares 
Verfahren ü ber das Vermögen der 
Emittentin , der Garantin oder eine 
Wesentliche Tochtergesellschaft 
eröffnet, und ein solches Verfahren 
nicht innerhalb von 60 Tagen 
aufgehoben oder ausgesetzt worden ist, 
oder (ii) die Emittentin , die Garantin 
oder eine Wesentliche 
Tochtergesellschaft die Eröffnung eines 
solchen Verfahrens beantragt oder 
einleitet oder (iii) ein Dritter ein 
Insolvenzverfahren gegen die 
Emittentin oder die Garantin beantragt 
und ein solches Verfahren nicht 
innerhalb einer Frist von 60 Tagen 
(es sei denn mangels Masse) 
aufgehoben oder ausgesetzt worden ist; 
dieser Absatz gilt nicht für 
ungerechtfertigte und schikanöse 
Verfahren, die unbegründet sind; oder   (f) (i) a court institutes insolvency 
proceedings or composition proceedings 
to avert insolvency or bankruptcy, or 
similar proceedings against the assets of 
the Issuer , the Guarantor and any 
Material Subsidiary  and such 
proceedings have not been discharged or 
stayed within 60 days, or (ii) the Issuer , 
the Guarantor and any Material 
Subsidia ry applies for institution of such 
proceedings in respect of its assets or 
(iii) a third party applies for insolvency 
proceedings against the Issuer , the 
Guarantor and any Material Subsidiary  
and such proceedings are not discharged 
or stayed within 60 days (unless for a 
lack of assets ( mangels Masse )); this 
provision does not apply to frivolous or 
vexatious proceedings that are without 
merit; or  
(g) die Garantie aus irgendeinem Grund 
ungültig  wird oder nicht mehr 
rechtsverbindlich ist.   (g) the Guarantee ceases to be valid and 
legally binding for any reason 
whatsoever.  
Das Kündigungsrecht erlischt, falls der 
Kündigungsgrund vor Ausübung des Rechts 
geheilt wurde.   The right to declare Notes du e shall terminate if 
the situation giving rise to it has been cured 
before the right is exercised.  
(2) Quorum . In den Fällen des 
Absatzes  (1) (b) wird eine Kündigung, 
sofern nicht bei deren Eingang zugleich 
einer der in Absatz (1) (a), (c), (d), (e) ,  (2) Quorum . In the events specified in 
subparagraph (1) (b), any notice 
declaring Notes due shall, unless at the 
time such notice is received any of the 
 
- 63 - 
 (f) oder ( g) bezeichneten 
Kündigungsgründe vorliegt, erst 
wirksam, wenn bei d er Emissionsstelle 
Kündigungserklärungen von 
Gläubigern von Schuldverschreibungen 
im Gesamtnennbetrag von mindestens 
25 % des Gesamtnennbetrags der 
ausstehenden Schuldverschreibungen 
eingegangen sind.  events specified in subparagraph (1) (a), 
(c), (d), (e) , (f) or (g) entitling Holder s 
to declare their Notes due has occurred, 
become effective only when the Fiscal 
Agent has received such notices from 
the Holders of at least 25 % in principal 
amount of Notes then outstanding.  
(3) Benachrichtigung . Eine 
Benachrichtigung oder Kündigung 
gemäß Absatz (1) hat in der Weise zu 
erfolgen, dass der Gläubiger de r 
Emissionsstelle eine Erklärung in 
Textform übersendet und dabei durch 
eine Bescheinigung seiner Depotbank 
(wie in § 14 (3) definiert) nachweist, 
dass er im Zeitpunkt der Erklärung 
Inhaber der betreffenden 
Schuldverschreibungen ist; im Falle des 
Absatz (1) (b) sind der Erklärung auch 
Nachweise für die Nichterfüllung 
beizufügen.   (3) Notice . Any notice in accordance with 
subparagraph (1) shall be made by 
means of a declaration in text form to the 
Fiscal Agent together with evidence by 
means of a certificate of the Holder's 
Custodian (as defined in § 14 (3)) that 
such Holder, at the time of s uch written 
notice, is a holder of the relevant Notes, 
and in the case of default pursuant to 
subparagraph (1) (b), also together with 
evidence specifying such default.  
§ 10 
ERSETZUNG   § 10 
SUBSTITUTION  
(1) Ersetzung . Die Emittentin ist jederzeit 
berecht igt, sofern sie sich nicht mit einer 
Zahlung von Kapital oder Zinsen auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen in Verzug 
befindet, ohne Zustimmung der 
Gläubiger die Siemens Energy AG oder 
eine andere Gesellschaft, deren 
stimmberechtigte Anteile oder sonstiges 
Eigenkap ital direkt oder indirekt zu 100 
% von der Siemens Energy AG gehalten 
werden, als Hauptschuldnerin für alle 
Verpflichtungen im Zusammenhang mit 
diesen Schuldverschreibungen 
(die "Nachfolgeschuldnerin ") 
einzusetzen, sofern:   (1) Substitution . The Issuer sha ll be entitled 
at any time, without the consent of the 
Holders, if no payment of principal of or 
interest on any of the Notes is in default, 
to substitute for the Issuer Siemens 
Energy AG or any other company, 100 
% of the voting shares or other equity 
interests of which are directly or 
indirectly owned by Siemens Energy 
AG, as principal debtor in respect to all 
obligations arising from or in 
connection with the Notes 
(the "Substituted Debtor "), provided 
that: 
(a) die Nachfolgeschuldnerin in der Lage 
ist, sämtliche sich aus oder in dem 
Zusammenhang mit diesen 
Schuldverschreibungen ergebenden 
Zahlungsverpflichtungen, ohne die 
Notwendigkeit eines Einbehalts von 
irgendwelchen Steuern oder Abgaben 
an der Quelle zu erfüllen sowie die 
hierzu erforderlichen Beträg e ohne 
Beschränkungen an d ie Emissionsstelle 
übertragen zu können;   (a) the Substituted Debtor is in a position to 
fulfill all payment obligations arising 
from or in connection with the Notes 
without the necessity of any taxes or 
duties being withheld at s ource and to 
transfer all amounts which are required 
therefor to the Fiscal Agent without any 
restrictions;  
(b) die Nachfolgeschuldnerin alle 
Verpflichtungen der Emittentin aus oder 
im Zusammenhang mit diesen 
Schuldverschreibungen übernimmt;   (b) the Substituted Debtor assumes all 
obligations of the Issuer arising from or 
in connection with the Notes;  
 
- 64 - 
 (c) die Nachfolgeschuldnerin sich 
verpflichtet, jedem Gläubiger alle 
Steuern, Gebühren oder Abgaben zu 
erstatten, die ihm in Folge der Ersetzung 
durch d ie Nachfolgeschuldnerin 
auferlegt werden;   (c) the Substituted Debtor undertakes to 
reimburse any Holder for such taxes, 
fees or duties which may be imposed 
upon it as a consequence of assumption 
of the obligations of the Issuer by the 
Substituted Debtor;  
(d) die Garantin unwiderruflich und 
unbedingt gegenüber den Gläubigern 
die Zahlung aller von der 
Nachfolgeschuldnerin auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen zahlbaren 
Beträge zu Bedingungen garantiert, die 
den Bedingungen der Garantie 
entsprechen; und   (d) the Gua rantor irrevocably and 
unconditionally guarantees in favour of 
each Holder the payment of all sums 
payable by the Substitute Debtor in 
respect of the Notes on terms equivalent 
to the terms of the Guarantee; and  
(e) der Emissionsstelle jeweils eine 
Bestäti gung bezüglich der betroffenen 
Rechtsordnungen von anerkannten 
Rechtsanwälten vorgelegt wird, dass die 
Bestimmungen in den vorstehenden 
Unterabsätzen (a), (b), (c) und (d) erfüllt 
wurden.   (e) there shall have been delivered to the 
Fiscal Agent one opinion  for each 
jurisdiction affected of lawyers of 
recognised standing to the effect that 
subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) above 
have been satisfied.  
(2) Bekanntmachung . Jede Ersetzung ist 
gemäß § 12 bekannt zu machen.   (2) Notice . Notice of any such substi tution 
shall be published in accordance with 
§ 12. 
(3) Änderung von Bezugnahmen . Im Fall 
einer Ersetzung gilt jede Bezugnahme in 
diesen Emissionsbedingungen auf die 
Emittentin ab dem Zeitpunkt der 
Ersetzung als Bezugnahme auf die 
Nachfolgeschuldnerin und jede 
Bezugnahme auf das Land, in dem die 
Emittentin ihren Sitz oder Steuersitz hat, 
gilt ab diesem Zeitpunkt als 
Bezugnahme auf das Land, in dem die 
Nachfolgeschuldnerin ihren Sitz oder 
Steuersitz hat.   (3) Change of References . In the event of 
any such substitution, any reference in 
these Terms and Conditions to the Issuer 
shall from then on be deemed to refer to 
the Substituted Debtor and any 
reference to the country in which the 
Issuer is domiciled or resident for 
taxation purpos es shall from then on be 
deemed to refer to the country of 
domicile or residence for taxation 
purposes of the Substituted Debtor.  
Im Fall einer Ersetzung folgt die 
Nachfolgeschuldnerin der Emittentin als 
Rechtsnachfolgerin nach, ersetzt diese und darf 
alle Rechte und Befugnisse der Emittentin aus 
den Schuldverschreibungen mit der gleichen 
Wirkung geltend machen, als wenn die 
Nachfolgeschuldnerin in diesen 
Emissionsbedingungen als Emittentin genannt 
worden wäre, und die Emittentin (bzw. die 
Gesellschaft, di e zuvor die Verpflichtungen der 
Emittentin übernommen hat) wird von ihren 
Verpflichtungen als Schuldnerin aus den 
Schuldverschreibungen befreit.   In the event of any such substitution, the 
Substituted Debtor shall succeed to, and be 
substituted for, and ma y exercise every right and 
power of, the Issuer under the Notes with the 
same effect as if the Substituted Debtor had been 
named as the Issuer herein, and the Issuer (or any 
corporation which shall have previously assumed 
the obligations of the Issuer) sha ll be released 
from its liability as obligor under the Notes.  
 
- 65 - 
 § 11 
BEGEBUNG WEITERER 
SCHULDVERSCHREIBUNGEN, ANKAUF 
UND ENTWERTUNG   § 11 
FURTHER ISSUES, PURCHASES AND 
CANCELLATION  
(1) Begebung weiterer 
Schuldverschreibungen . Die Emittentin 
ist berechtigt, jederzeit ohne 
Zustimmung der Gläubiger weitere 
Schuldverschreibungen mit gleicher 
Ausstattung (gegebenenfalls mit 
Ausnahme des Ausgabetags und/oder 
des Ausgabepreises) in der Weise zu 
begeben, dass sie mit diesen 
Schuldverschreibungen eine 
einheitliche Serie bilden und den 
Gesamtnennbetrag der 
Schuldverschreibungen erhöhen.   (1) Further Issues . The Issuer may from 
time to time, without the consent of the 
Holders, issue further Notes having the 
same terms and conditions  as the Notes 
(except for, if so applicable, the issue 
date and/or issue price) so as to form a 
single Series with and increase the 
aggregate principal amount of, the 
Notes.  
(2) Ankauf . Die Emittentin und die Garantin  
sind berechtigt, jederzeit 
Schuldverschreibungen im Markt oder 
anderweitig zu jedem beliebigen Preis 
anzukaufen. Die von der Emittentin 
bzw. der Garantin erworbenen 
Schuldverschreibungen können nach 
Wahl der Emittentin bzw. der Garantin 
von ihr gehalten, weiterverkauft oder bei 
der Emissionsstelle zwecks Entwertung 
eingereicht werden.   (2) Purchases . The Issuer and the 
Guarantor  may at any time purchase 
Notes in the o pen market or otherwise  
and at any price. Notes purchased by the 
Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may 
be, may, at the option of the Issuer or the 
Guarantor, as the case may be, be held, 
resold or surrendered to the Fiscal Agent 
for cancellation.  
(3) Entwertung . Sämtliche vollständig 
zurückgezahlten oder gemäß Absatz  (2) 
zwecks Entwertung eingereichten 
Schuldverschreibungen sind 
unverzüglich zu entwerten und können 
nicht wiederbegeben oder 
wiederverkauft werden.   (3) Cancellation . All Notes redeemed in 
full or surrendered  for cancellation 
pursuant to subparagraph (2) above shall 
be cancelled forthwith and may not be 
reissued or resold.  
§ 12 
MITTEILUNGEN   § 12 
NOTICES  
(1) Bekanntmachung . Alle die 
Schuldverschreibungen betreffenden 
Mitteilungen erfolgen durch 
elektronische Mitteilung auf der 
Webseite der Luxemburger Börse 
(www.LuxSE.com). Jede Mitteilung gilt 
am dritten Kalendertag nach dem Tag 
der Veröffentlichung als wirksam 
erfolgt.   (1) Publication. All notices concerning the 
Notes shall be published by way of 
electronic publication on the internet 
website of the Luxembourg Stock 
Exchange (www. LuxSE.com ). Any 
notice so given will be deemed to have 
been validly given on the third calendar 
day following the date of  such 
publication.  
(2) Mitteilungen an das Clearing -System . 
Soweit gesetzlich und nach den Regeln 
der Börse, an der die 
Schuldverschreibungen notiert sind, 
zulässig, ist die Emittentin berechtigt, 
eine Veröffentlichung nach Absatz (1) 
durch eine Mitteilun g an das Clearing -
System zur Weiterleitung an die 
Gläubiger zu ersetzen. Jede derartige  (2) Notification to Clearing System . To the 
extent per mitted by law and the rules of 
the relevant stock exchange on which 
the Notes are listed, the Issuer may 
replace any publication referred to in 
paragraph (1) by a notice to the Clearing 
System for onward transmission to the 
Holders. Any notice so given wil l be 
deemed to have been validly given on 
 
- 66 - 
 Mitteilung gilt am fünften Tag nach dem 
Tag der Mitteilung an das Clearing -
System als den Gläubigern mitgeteilt.  the fifth calendar day following the date 
of such publication.  
§ 13 
ÄNDERUNG DER 
ANLEIHEBEDINGUNGEN, 
GEMEINSAMER VERTRETER   § 13 
AMENDMENT OF THE TERMS AND 
CONDITIONS, HOLDERS' 
REPRESENTATIVE  
(1)  Änderung der An leihebedingungen . 
Die Gläubiger können entsprechend den 
Bestimmungen des Gesetzes über 
Schuldverschreibungen aus 
Gesamtemissionen 
(Schuldverschreibungsgesetz  – 
"SchVG ") durch einen Beschluss mit 
der in Absatz 2 bestimmten Mehrheit 
über einen im SchVG zugel assenen 
Gegenstand eine Änderung der 
Anleihebedingungen mit der Emittentin 
vereinbaren. Die Mehrheitsbeschlüsse 
der Gläubiger sind für alle Gläubiger 
gleichermaßen verbindlich. Ein 
Mehrheitsbeschlu ss der Gläubiger, der 
nicht gleiche Bedingungen für alle 
Gläubiger vorsieht, ist unwirksam, es sei 
denn die benachteiligten Gläubiger 
stimmen ihrer Benachteiligung 
ausdrücklich zu.   (1)  Amendment of the Terms and 
Conditions . In accordance with the Act 
on Debt Securities of 2009 
(Schuldverschreibungsgesetz  – 
"SchVG ") the Holders may agree with 
the Issuer on amendments of the Terms 
and Conditions with regard to matters 
permitted by the SchVG by resolution 
with the majority specified in 
subparagraph (2). Majo rity resolutions 
shall be binding on all Holders. 
Resolutions which do not provide for 
identical conditions for all Holders are 
void, unless Holders who are 
disadvantaged have expressly consented 
to their being treated disadvantageously.  
(2) Mehrheitserfo rdernisse . Die Gläubiger 
entscheiden mit einer Mehrheit von 
75 % der an der Abstimmung 
teilnehmenden Stimmrechte. 
Beschlüsse, durch welche der 
wesentliche Inhalt der 
Anleihebedingungen nicht geändert 
wird und die keinen Gegenstand der § 5 
Absatz 3, Nr. 1 b is Nr. 8 des SchVG 
betreffen, bedürfen zu ihrer 
Wirksamkeit einer einfachen Mehrheit 
der an der Abstimmung teilnehmenden 
Stimmrechte.   (2)  Majority . Resolutions shall be passed by 
a majority of not less than 75 per cent. 
of the votes cast. Resolutions rel ating to 
amendments of the Terms and 
Conditions which are not material and 
which do not relate to the matters listed 
in § 5 paragraph 3, Nos. 1 to 8 of the 
SchVG require a simple majority of the 
votes cast.  
(3)  Beschlüsse der Gläubiger . Beschlüsse 
der Gl äubiger werden nach Wahl der 
Emittentin im Wege der Abstimmung 
ohne Versammlung nach § 18 SchVG 
oder einer Gläubigerversammlung nach 
§ 9 SchVG gefasst.   (3) Resolution of Holders . Resolutions of 
Holders shall be passed at the election of 
the Issuer by vote  taken without a 
meeting in accordance with § 18 SchVG 
or in a Holder's meeting in accordance 
with § 9 SchVG.  
(4)  Leitung der Abstimmung . Die 
Abstimmung wird von einem von der 
Emittentin beauftragten Notar oder, falls 
der gemeinsame Vertreter zur 
Abstimmung aufgefordert hat, vom 
gemeinsamen Vertreter geleitet.   (4)  Chair of the vote . The vote will be 
chaired by a notary appointed by the 
Issuer or, if the Holders' Representative 
(as defined below) has convened the 
vote, by the Holders' Representative.  
(5)  Stimmrecht . An Abstimmungen der 
Gläubiger nimmt jeder Gläubiger nach 
Maßgabe des Nennwerts oder des 
rechnerischen Anteils seiner  (5) Voting rights . Each Holder participatin g 
in any vote shall cast votes in 
accordance with the principal amount or 
 
- 67 - 
 Berechtigung an den ausstehenden 
Schuldverschreibungen teil.  the notional share of its entitlement to 
the outstanding Notes.  
(6)  Gemeinsamer Vertreter . Die Gläubiger 
können durch Mehrheitsbeschlu ss zur 
Wahrnehmung ihrer Rechte einen 
gemeinsa men Vertreter für alle 
Gläubiger bestellen.   (6)  Holders' Representative . The Holders 
may by majority resolution appoint a 
common representative (the " Holders' 
Representative ") to exercise the 
Holders' rights on behalf of each Holder.  
 Der gemeinsame Ver treter hat die 
Aufgaben und Befugnisse, welche ihm 
durch Gesetz oder von den Gläubigern 
durch Mehrheitsbeschlu ss eingeräumt 
wurden. Er hat die Weisungen der 
Gläubiger zu befolgen. Soweit er zur 
Geltendmachung von Rechten der 
Gläubiger ermächtigt ist, sind die 
einzelnen Gläubiger zur selbständigen 
Geltendmachung dieser Rechte nicht 
befugt, es sei denn der 
Mehrheitsbeschlu ss sieht dies 
ausdrücklich vor. Über seine Tätigkeit 
hat der gemeinsame Vertreter den 
Gläubigern zu berichten. Für die 
Abberufung und die s onstigen Rechte 
und Pflichten des gemeinsamen 
Vertreters gelten die Vorschriften des 
SchVG.    The Holders' Representative shall have 
the duties and powers provided by law 
or granted by majority resolution of the 
Holders. The Holders' Representative 
shall c omply with the instructions of the 
Holders. To the extent that the Holders' 
Representative has been authorised to 
assert certain rights of the Holders, the 
Holders shall not be entitled to assert 
such rights themselves, unless explicitly 
provided for in th e relevant majority 
resolution. The Holders' Representative 
shall provide reports to the Holders on 
its activities. The regulations of the 
SchVG apply with regard to the recall 
and the other rights and obligations of 
the Holders' Representative.  
(7) Änderung der Garantie . Die oben 
aufgeführten auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen anwendbaren 
Bestimmungen gelten sinngemäß für die 
Garantie.   (7)  Amendment of the Guarantee . 
The provisions set out above applicable 
to the Notes shall apply mutatis  
mutandis to the Guarantee.  
§ 14 
ANWENDBARES RECHT UND 
GERICHTSSTAND   § 14 
GOVERNING LAW AND PLACE OF 
JURISDICTION  
(1) Anwendbares Recht . Form und Inhalt 
der Schuldverschreibungen sowie die 
Rechte und Pflichten der Gläubiger und 
der Emittentin bestimmen sich in jeder 
Hinsicht nach deutschem Recht.   (1) Governing Law . The Notes, both as to 
form and content, and all rights and 
obligations of the Holders and the Issuer 
shall in all respects be governed by 
German law.  
(2) Gerichtsstand . Ausschließlich zuständig 
für sämtliche im Zusammenhang mit 
den Schuldverschreibungen 
entstehenden Klagen oder sonstige 
Verfahren sind die Gerichte in 
München, Deutschland.   (2) Place of Jurisdiction . The courts in 
Munich, Germany shall have exclusive 
jurisdiction for any action or other legal 
proceedings arising out of or in 
connection with the Notes.  
(3) Gerichtliche Geltendmachung . Jeder 
Gläubiger ist berechtigt, in jedem 
Rechtsstreit gegen die Emit tentin oder 
die Garantin oder in jedem Rechtsstreit, 
in dem der Gläubiger und die Emittentin 
oder die Garantin Partei sind, seine 
Rechte aus diesen 
Schuldverschreibungen im eigenen 
Namen auf der folgenden Grundlage zu 
schützen oder geltend zu machen: (i) e r 
bringt eine Bescheinigung der  (3) Enforcement . Any Holder may in any 
proceedings against the Issuer, or the 
Guarantor or to which such Holder and 
the Issuer or the Guarantor are parties, 
protect and enforce in his own name his 
rights arising under such Notes on the 
basis of (i) a statement issued by the 
Custodian with whom such Holder 
maintains a securities acco unt in respect 
of the Notes (a) stating the full name and 
address of the Holder, (b) specifying the 
 
- 68 - 
 Depotbank bei, bei der er für die 
Schuldverschreibungen ein 
Wertpapierdepot unterhält, welche 
(a) den vollständigen Namen und die 
vollständige Adresse des Gläubigers 
enthält, (b) den Gesamtnennbetrag der 
Schuldverschreibunge n bezeichnet, die 
unter dem Datum der Bestätigung auf 
dem Wertpapierdepot verbucht sind und 
(c) bestätigt, dass die Depotbank 
gegenüber dem Clearing -System eine 
schriftliche Erklärung abgegeben hat, 
die die vorstehend unter (a) und (b) 
bezeichneten Informa tionen enthält und 
einen Bestätigungsvermerk des 
Clearing -Systems trägt; und (ii) er legt 
eine Kopie der die betreffenden 
Schuldverschreibungen verbriefenden 
Globalurkunde vor, deren 
Übereinstimmung mit dem Original 
eine vertretungsberechtigte Person des 
Clearing -Systems oder des Verwahrers 
des Clearing -Systems bestätigt hat, ohne 
dass eine Vorlage der Originalbelege 
oder der die Schuldverschreibungen 
verbriefenden Globalurkunde in einem 
solchen Verfahren erforderlich wäre 
oder (iii) auf jede andere Weise, die im 
Lande der Geltendmachung prozessual 
zulässig ist. Für die Zwecke des 
Vorstehenden bezeichnet " Depotbank " 
jede Bank oder ein sonstiges 
anerkanntes Finanzinstitut, das 
berechtigt ist, das 
Wertpapierverwahrungsgeschäft zu 
betreiben und bei der/dem der Gläubiger 
ein Wertpapierdepot für die 
Schuldverschreibungen unterhält und 
die/das ein Konto beim Clearing -
System unterhält, einschließlich des 
Clearing -Systems selbst.  aggregate principal amount of Notes 
credited to such securities account on 
the date of such statement and 
(c) confirming that the Custodian has 
given writte n notice to the Clearing 
System containing the information 
pursuant to (a) and (b) which has been 
confirmed by the Clearing System and 
(ii) a copy of the Note in global form 
certified as being a true copy by a duly 
authorised officer of the Clearing 
System  or a depository of the Clearing 
System, without the need for production 
in such proceedings of the actual records 
or the global note representing the Notes 
or (iii)  any other means of proof 
permitted in legal proceedings in the 
country of enforcement. For  purposes of 
the foregoing, " Custodian " means any 
bank or other financial institution of 
recognised standing authorised to 
engage in securities custody business 
with which the Holder maintains a 
securities account in respect of the Notes 
and which maintain s an account with the 
Clearing System, including the Clearing 
System itself.  
§ 15 
SPRACHE   § 15 
LANGUAGE  
Diese Emissionsbedingungen sind in deutscher 
Sprache abgefasst. Eine Übersetzung in die 
englische Sprache ist beigefügt. Der deutsche 
Text ist bindend und maßgeblich. Die 
Übersetzung in die englische Sprache ist 
unverbindlich.   These Terms and Conditions are written in the 
German language and provided with an English 
language translation. The German text shall be 
binding and prevailing. The Engli sh language 
translation shall be non -binding.  
 
- 69 - 
 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE 2029  NOTES  
§ 1 
WÄHRUNG, STÜCKELUNG, FORM, 
BESTIMMTE DEFINITIONEN   § 1 
CURRENCY, DENOMINATION, FORM, 
CERTAIN DEFINITIONS  
(1) Währung; Stückelung . Diese Serie 
(die "Serie ") von auf den Inhaber 
lautenden Schuldverschreibungen 
(die "Schuldverschreibungen ") der 
Siemens Energy Finance B.V. 
(die "Emittentin ") wird am 
5. April  2023  in Euro  (die " Festgelegte 
Währung ") im Gesamtnennbetrag von 
(vorbehaltlich § 1(6))  EUR  750.000.000  
in ein er Stückelung von EUR  100.000  
(die " Festgelegte Stückelung ") 
begeben.   (1) Currency; Denomination . This series 
(the " Series ") of bearer Notes 
(the "Notes ") of Siemens Energy 
Finance B.V. (" Issuer ") is being issued 
on April 5,  2023  in Euro  (the " Specified 
Currency ") in the aggregate principal 
amount of (subject to § 1(6)) 
EUR  750,000,000  in the denomination 
of EUR  100,000  (the "Specified 
Denomination "). 
(2) Vorläufige Globalurkunde — 
Austausch .  (2) Temporary Global Note — Exchange . 
(a) Die Schuldverschreibungen sind 
anfänglich durch eine vorläufige 
Globalurkunde (die " Vorläufige 
Globalurkunde ") ohne Zinsscheine 
verbrieft. Die Vorläufige 
Globalurkunde wird gegen 
Schuldverschreibungen in den 
Festgelegten Stückelungen, die durch 
eine Dauergloba lurkunde 
(die "Dauerglobalurkunde " und mit 
der Vorläufigen Globalurkunde, die 
"Globalurkunden ") ohne Zinsscheine 
verbrieft sind, ausgetauscht. Die 
Einzelheiten eines solchen Austausches 
werden in die Aufzeichnungen des 
ICSD (wie nachstehend definiert) 
aufgenommen. Die Globalurkunden 
werden von oder im Namen der 
Emittentin unterschrieben und werden 
von der Emissionsstelle (wie 
nachstehend definiert) oder in deren 
Namen mit einer Kontrollunterschrift 
versehen. Einzelurkunden und 
Zinsscheine werden nicht ausge geben.   (a) The Notes are initially represented by a 
temporary global note (the " Temporary 
Global Note ") without coupons. The 
Temporary Global Note will be 
exchangeable for Notes in Specified 
Denominations represented by a 
permanent global note (the " Perma nent 
Global Note " and together with the 
Temporary Global Note, the " Global 
Notes ") without coupons. The details of 
such exchange shall be entered in the 
records of the ICSD (as defined below). 
The Global Notes shall be signed by or 
on behalf of the Issuer and shall be 
authenticated by or on behalf of the 
Fiscal Agent (as defined below). 
Definitive Notes and interest coupons 
will not be issued.  
(b) Die Vorläufige Globalurkunde wird an 
einem Tag (der " Austauschtag ") gegen 
die Dauerglobalurkunde ausgetauscht,  
der nicht weniger als 40 Tage nach dem 
Tag der Begebung liegen wird. Ein 
solcher Austausch darf nur dann 
erfolgen, wenn die Emittentin von dem 
jeweiligen Clearing -System eine 
Bescheinigung erhalten hat, wonach der 
oder die wirtschaftlichen Eigentümer 
der Schuldverschreibungen keine U.S. -
Personen sind (ausgenommen 
bestimmte Finanzinstitute oder 
bestimmte Personen, die  (b) The Temporary Global Note shall be 
exchanged for the Permanent Global 
Note on a date (the " Exchange Date ") 
not earlier than 40 days after the date of 
issue of the Notes. Such exchange shall 
only be made upon receipt by the Issuer 
of certifications from the relevant 
Clearing System to the effect that the 
beneficial owner or owners of the Notes 
is not a U.S. person (other than certain 
financial institutions or certain persons 
holding Notes throug h such financial 
institutions). Payment of interest on 
Notes represented by a Temporary 
 
- 70 - 
 Schuldverschreibungen über solche 
Finanzinstitute halten). Solange die 
Schuldverschreibungen durch eine 
Vorläufige Globalurkunde verbrieft 
sind, werden Zinszahlungen erst nach 
Vorlage solcher Bescheinigungen 
vorgenommen. Eine gesonderte 
Bescheinigung ist für jede solche 
Zinszahlung erforderlich. Jede 
Bescheinigung, die am oder nach dem 
40. Tag nach dem Tag der Begebung der 
Schuldverschreibungen  eingeht, wird 
als ein Ersuchen behandelt werden, 
diese Vorläufige Globalurkunde gemäß 
diesem § 1 Absatz (2)(b) auszutauschen. 
Schuldverschreibungen, die im 
Austausch für die Vorläufige 
Globalurkunde geliefert werden, dürfen 
nur außerhalb der Vereinigten S taaten 
(wie in § 4 Absatz ( 5) definiert) geliefert 
werden.  Global Note will be made only after 
receipt by the Issuer of such 
certifications from the relevant Clearing 
System. A separate certification shall be 
required in respec t of each such payment 
of interest. Any such certification 
received on or after the 40th day after the 
date of issue of the Notes will be treated 
as a request to exchange the Temporary 
Global Note pursuant to this § 1(2)(b). 
Any Notes delivered in exchange for the 
Temporary Global Note shall be 
delivered only outside of the United 
States (as defined in § 4 (5)). 
(3) Clearing -System . Jede die 
Schuldverschreibungen verbriefende 
Globalurkunde wird vom oder im 
Namen des Clearing -Systems verwahrt. 
"Clearing -System " bedeutet jeweils 
Folgendes: Clearstream Banking S.A. 
("CBL ") und Euroclear Bank SA/NV 
("Euroclear "), wobei CBL und 
Euroclear jeweils als " Internationaler 
Zentralverwahrer " ( International 
Central Securities Depos itory ) oder 
"ICSD " (und zusammen die " ICSDs "), 
handeln.   (3) Clearing System . Each Global Note 
representing the Notes will be kept in 
custody by or on behalf of the Clearing 
System. " Clearing System " means each 
of the following: Clearstream 
Banking  S.A. (" CBL ") and Euroclear 
Bank SA/NV (" Euroclear ") (CBL and 
Euroclear each acting as an 
"International Central Securities 
Depository " or "ICSD" (and together 
the " ICSDs ")). 
Die Verwahrung der Globalurkunde 
wird von einem gemeinsamen 
Verwahrer ( common safekeeper ) im 
Namen beider ICSDs vorgenommen. 
Die Schuldverschreibungen sind in Form 
einer neuen Globalurkunde ( new global 
note) (NGN) ohne Zinsscheine verbrieft.   The Global Note is kept in custody by a 
common safekeeper on behalf of both 
ICSDs. The  Notes are in the form of a 
new global note (NGN) without interest 
coupons.  
(4) Gläubiger von Schuldverschreibungen . 
"Gläubiger " bedeutet jeder Inhaber von 
rechtlichem Eigentum, 
Miteigentumsanteilen und/oder 
vergleichbaren Eigentumsansprüchen 
oder Rechten an der Globalurkunde. 
Ihre Übertragung erfolgt in 
Übereinstimmung mit den 
Bestimmungen des Clearing -Systems.   (4) Holder of Notes . "Holder " means any 
holder of legal ownership, a 
proportionate co -ownership and/or 
beneficial  interest or right in the Global 
Note. Their transfer shall be effected in 
accordance with the provisions of the 
Clearing System.  
(5) Bezugnahmen auf 
Schuldverschreibungen . Bezugnahmen 
in diesen Emissionsbedingungen auf die 
"Schuldverschreibungen " schließ en 
Bezugnahmen auf jede die 
Schuldverschreibungen verbriefende 
Globalurkunde ein, es sei denn, aus dem  (5) References to Notes . References herein 
to the " Notes " include (unless the 
context otherwise requires) refere nces 
to any global note representing the 
Notes appertaining thereto.  
 
- 71 - 
 Zusammenhang ergibt sich etwas 
anderes.  
(6) Register der ICSDs . Der 
Gesamtnennbetrag der durch die 
Globalurkunde verbrieften 
Schuldverschreibungen entspricht dem 
jeweils in den Registern beider ICSDs 
eingetragenen Gesamtbetrag . Die 
Register der ICSDs (unter denen man 
die Register versteht, die jeder ICSD für 
seine Kunden über den Betrag ihres 
Anteils an den Schuldverschreibungen 
führt) sind schlüssiger Nachweis des 
Gesamtnennbetrags der durch die 
Globalurkunde verbrieften 
Schul dverschreibungen. Eine in diesem 
Zusammenhang von einem ICSD 
jeweils ausgestellte Bescheinigung über 
den Betrag der so verbrieften 
Schuldverschreibungen ist ein 
schlüssiger Nachweis über den Inhalt 
des Registers des jeweiligen ICSD zu 
diesem Zeitpunkt.   (6) Records of the ICSDs . The aggregate 
principal amount of Notes represented 
by the Global Note shall be the 
aggregate amount from time to time 
entered in the records of both ICSDs. 
The records of the ICSDs (which 
expression means the records that each 
ICSD holds for its customers which 
reflect the amount of such customer's 
interest in the Notes) shall be conclusive 
evidence of the aggregate principal 
amount of Notes represented by the 
Global Note and, for these purposes, a 
statement issued by an ICSD stat ing the 
amount of Notes so represented at any 
time shall be conclusive evidence of the 
records of the relevant ICSD at that 
time.  
Im Fall der Rückzahlung bezüglich der 
durch die Globalurkunde verbrieften 
Schuldverschreibungen bzw. bei Kauf 
und Entwertung der durch die 
Globalurkunde verbrieften 
Schuldverschreibungen stellt die 
Emittentin sicher, dass die Einzelheiten 
über Rückzahlung bzw. Kauf und 
Entwertung bezüglich der 
Globalurkunde pro rata  in die Register 
der ICSDs eingetragen werden, und dass 
nach die ser Eintragung der gesamte 
Nennbetrag der zurückgekauften bzw. 
gekauften und entwerteten 
Schuldverschreibungen vom 
Gesamtnennbetrag der in die Register 
der ICSDs aufgenommenen und durch 
die Globalurkunde verbrieften 
Schuldverschreibungen abgezogen wird.   On any redemption being made in 
respect of, or purchase and cancellation 
of, any of the Notes represented by the 
Global Note the Issuer shall procure that 
details of such redemption or purchase 
and cancellation (as the case may be) in 
respect of the Global Note shall be 
entered pro rata  in the records of the 
ICSDs and, upon any such entry being 
made, the aggregate principal amount of 
the Notes recorded in the records of the 
ICSDs and represented by the Global 
Note shall be reduced by the total 
principal amou nt of the Notes so 
redeemed or purchased and cancelled.  
§ 2 
STATUS, GARANTIE   § 2 
STATUS, GUARANTEE  
(1) Status . Die Schuldverschreibungen 
begründen nicht besicherte und nicht 
nachrangige Zahlungsverbindlichkeiten 
der Emittentin, die untereinander und 
mit allen anderen nicht besicherten und 
nicht nachrangigen gegenwärtigen und 
zukünftigen Verbindlichkeiten der 
Emittentin gleichrangig sind, soweit 
diesen Verbindlichkeiten nicht durch 
zwingende gesetzliche Bestimmungen 
ein Vorrang einger äumt wird.   (1) Status . The payment obligations under 
the Notes constitute unsecured and 
unsubordinated obligations of the Issuer 
ranking pari passu among themselves 
and pari passu with all other unsecured 
and unsubordinated present and future 
obligations of the Issuer, unless such 
obligations are accorded priority under 
mandatory rules of law.  
 
- 72 - 
 (2) Garantie . Siemens Energy AG als 
Garantin (die " Garantin ") hat eine 
unbedingte und unwiderrufliche 
Garantie (die " Garantie ") für die 
ordnungsgemäße Zahlung von Kapital 
und sonstiger bezüglich der 
Schuldverschreibungen von der 
Emittentin in Übereinstimmung mit den 
Emissionsbedingungen zahlbarer 
Beträge übernommen. Die Garantie 
stellt einen Vertrag zugunsten eines 
jeden Gläubig ers als begünstigtem 
Dritten gemäß § 328 Absatz 1 BGB dar, 
welcher das Recht eines jeden 
Gläubigers begründet, Erfüllung aus der 
Garantie unmittelbar von der Garantin 
zu verlangen und die Garantie 
unmittelbar gegenüber der Garantin 
durchzusetzen. Kopien de r Garantie 
können kostenlos am Sitz der Garantin 
in München und am Sitz der 
Emissionsstelle bezogen werden.   (2) Guarantee . Siemens Energy AG as 
guarantor (the " Guarantor ") has given 
an unconditional and irrevocable 
guarantee (the " Guarantee ") for the due 
payment of principal of and any other 
amounts expressed to be payable in 
accordance with the Terms and 
Conditions under the Notes issued by 
the Issuer. The Guarantee constitutes a 
contract for the benefit of the Holders 
from time to time as third party 
beneficiaries in accordance with 
§ 328 (1) of the German Civil Code 
(Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch (BGB) ), 
giving rise to the right of each Holder to 
require performance of the Guarantee 
directly from the Guarantor and to 
enforce the Guarantee directly against 
the Guarantor. Copies of the Guarantee 
may be obtained free of charge at the 
principal office of the Guarantor in 
Munich and at the principal office of the 
Fiscal Agent.  
(3) Negativverpflichtung . Die Emittentin 
verpflichtet sich, solange die 
Schuldverschreibu ngen noch ausstehen 
(aber nur bis zu dem Zeitpunkt, an dem 
Kapital und Zinsen aus oder im 
Zusammenhang mit den 
Schuldverschreibungen de r 
Emissionsstelle zur Verfügung gestellt 
worden sind), ihr gegenwärtiges oder 
zukünftiges Vermögen weder ganz noch 
teilwe ise mit Grundpfandrechten, 
Pfandrechten oder sonstigen dinglichen 
Sicherungsrechten (zusammen, die 
"Sicherheiten ") zur Besicherung 
gegenwärtiger oder zukünftiger 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten (wie 
nachfolgend definiert) der Emittentin 
oder eines Dritten einschließlich 
diesbezüglicher Garantien oder 
Freistellungsansprüche  zu belasten, und 
zu gewährleisten, dass keine ihrer 
Wesentlichen Tochtergesellschaften 
Sicherheiten zur Besicherung 
gegenwärtiger oder zukünftiger 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten bestellt 
oder fortbestehen lässt  es sei denn, dass 
die Schuldverschreibungen gleichzeitig 
und in gleichem Rang anteilig an dieser 
Sicherheit teilnehmen oder den 
Gläubigern eine andere Sicherheit, die 
von einer unabhängigen 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft als 
gleichwer tige Sicherheit anerkannt 
wird, bestellt wird.   (3) Negative  Pledge . The Issuer undertakes 
so long as any Notes remain 
outstanding, but only up to the time all 
amounts of principal and interest have 
been placed at the disposal of the Fiscal 
Agent not to create or permit to subsist 
any mortgage, pledge or other 
encumbrance in rem, (together, 
"Security "), and to procure that none of 
its Material Subsidiaries will create or 
permit to subsist, any Security upon any 
or all of its present or future assets as 
security for any present or future Capital 
Market Indebtedness (as defined below) 
of the Issuer or any third party  including 
guarantees and indemnities in respect of 
such Capital Market Indebtedness , 
unless the Notes at the same time share 
pari passu  and pro rata in such security 
or unless such other security as may be 
approved by an independent accounting 
firm as being equivalent security has 
been made available to the Holders.  
 
- 73 - 
 "Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten " 
bedeutet jede gegenwärtige oder 
zukünftige Verb indlichkeit zur 
Rückzahlung aufgenommener 
Geldbeträge, die durch 
Schuldverschreibungen oder sonstige 
Wertpapiere, die an einer Börse oder an 
einem anderen organisierten Markt 
notiert oder gehandelt werden oder 
hinsichtlich derer ein solcher Handel 
beabsich tigt ist, verbrieft, verkörpert 
oder dokumentiert sind sowie jede 
Garantie oder sonstige Gewährleistung 
einer solchen Verbindlichkeit.   "Capital Market Indebtedness " means 
any present or future obligation for the 
payment of borrowed money, which is in 
the form of, or represented or evidenced 
by, bonds, or other instruments which 
are, or are intended to be, listed, quoted, 
dealt in or traded on any stock exchange 
or in any organised market and any 
guarantee or other indemnity in respect 
of such obligatio n. 
"Wesentliche Tochtergesellschaft " 
bezeichnet jede Tochtergesellschaft, die 
ausweislich des jeweils aktuellen, sofern 
rechtlich erforderlich geprüften und 
testierten, Jahresabschlusses der 
betreffenden Tochtergesellschaft und 
ausweislich des letzten gep rüften und 
testierten Konzern abschlusses der 
Garantin mindestens 10 % des 
konsolidierten Umsatzes  oder der 
konsolidierten Bilanzsumme der 
Garantin und ihrer konsolidierten 
Tochtergesellschaften  ausmacht.   "Material Subsidiary " means any 
Subsidiary which according to the most 
recent, to the extent legally required 
audited, financial statements of the 
relevant Subsidiary and the most recent 
audited consolidated annual financial 
statements of the Guarantor represents at 
least 10 per cent. of the consolidated 
revenue or the consolidated total assets 
of the Guarantor and its consolidated 
Subsidiaries . 
"Tochtergesellschaft " bezeichnet jedes 
im Mehrheitsbesitz der Garantin 
stehende Unternehmen oder jedes von 
der Garantin direkt oder indirekt 
abhängige oder kontrollierte 
Unternehmen.   "Subsidiary " means any company 
which is majority -owned by the 
Guarantor or any company which is 
directly or indirectly controlled by or 
dependent on the Guarantor.  
(4) Negativverpflichtung.  Die Garantin 
verpflichtet sich, solange die 
Schuldverschreibungen noch ausstehen 
(aber nur bis zu dem Zeitpunkt, an dem 
Kapital und Zinsen aus oder im 
Zusammenhang mit den 
Schuldverschreibungen de r 
Emissionsstelle zur Verfügung gestellt 
worden sind), ihr gegenwärtiges oder 
zukünftiges Vermögen weder ganz noch 
teilweise mit Grundpfandrechten, 
Pfandrechten oder sonstigen dinglichen 
Sicherungsrechten (zusammen, die 
"Sicherheiten ") zur Besicherung 
gegenwärtiger oder zukünftiger 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten (wie 
nachfolgend  definiert) der Garantin oder 
eines Dritten zu belasten, und zu 
gewährleisten, dass keine ihrer 
Wesentlichen Tochtergesellschaften 
Sicherheiten zur Besicherung 
gegenwärtiger oder zukünftiger 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten bestellt 
oder fortbestehen lässt  es sei denn, dass 
die Schuldverschreibungen gleichzeitig 
und in gleichem Rang anteilig an dieser  (4) Negative Pledge.  The Guarantor 
undertakes so long as any Notes remain 
outstanding, but only up to the time all 
amounts of principal and interest have 
been placed at the disposal of the Fiscal 
Agent not to create or permit to subsist 
any mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or 
other encumbrance in rem, (together, 
"Security "), and to procure that none of 
its Material Subsidiaries will create or 
permit to subsist, any Security upon any 
or all of its present or future assets as 
security for any present or future Capital 
Market Indeb tedness (as defined below) 
of the Guarantor or any third party, 
unless the Notes at the same time share 
pari passu and pro rata in such security 
or unless such other security as may be 
approved by an independent accounting 
firm as being equivalent security  has 
been made available to the Holders.  
 
- 74 - 
 Sicherheit teilnehmen oder den 
Gläubigern eine andere Sicherheit, die 
von einer unabhängigen 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft als 
gleichwertige Sicherheit anerkan nt 
wird, bestellt wird.  
(5) Die Verpflichtung nach § 2 Absatz (3) 
gilt nicht, für   (5) The negative pledge pursuant to § 2(3) 
does not apply to any  
(a) Sicherheiten, die am Begebungstag der 
Schuldverschreibungen bestehen, oder   (a) Security which is in existence at the 
issue date of the Notes; or  
(b) Sicherheiten, die im Rahmen der 
normalen Geschäftstätigkeit oder kraft 
Gesetzes oder zur Einhaltung des 
anzuwendendem Rechts entstehen oder 
die von einer Behörde verlangt werden, 
einsch ließlich Pfandrechten und 
Aufrechnungsrechten; oder   (b) Security arising in the ordinary course of 
business or by operation of law or in 
order to comply with applicable laws or 
which is required by an authority, 
including liens and rights of set -off; or  
(c) Sicherheiten, die an Vermögen 
bestehen, das nach dem Begebungstag 
der Schuldverschreibungen erworben 
wurde, die 
(A) Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten 
besichern, die zur Finanzierung des 
Erwerbs eines solchen Vermögens 
(und/oder damit zusammenhängender 
Kost en und Aufwendungen) 
aufgenommen wurden oder (B) zum 
Zeitpunkt des Erwerbs eines solchen 
Vermögens durch die Emittentin oder 
die Garantin bestehen, sofern diese 
Sicherheiten nicht im Hinblick auf einen 
solchen Erwerb bestellt wurden und der 
besicherte Gesa mtnennbetrag nicht im 
Hinblick auf den Erwerb oder seit dem 
Erwerb erhöht wurde; oder   (c) Security over any asset acquired after 
the issue date of the Notes which 
(A) secures Capital Market 
Indebtedness incurred for the financing 
of the acquisition of suc h asset (and/or 
any related costs and expenses), or 
(B) exists on the date of the acquisition 
of such asset by the Issuer or the 
Guarantor provided that such Security 
has not been created in contemplation of 
such acquisition and the principal 
amount secure d has not been increased 
in contemplation of or since the 
acquisition; or  
(d) Sicherheiten, die zur Finanzierung eines 
bestimmten Projekts oder bestimmter 
Projekte geschaffen wurden, wobei der 
Rückgriff der jeweiligen Gläubiger auf 
das Vermögen und den Ca shflow 
beschränkt ist, die diesem Projekt oder 
diesen Projekten zuzuordnen sind; oder   (d) Security created for the financing of a 
specific project or projects where 
recourse of the relevant holders is 
limited to the assets and the cash flow 
attributable to that project or those 
projects; or  
(e) Sicherheiten, die im Zusammenhang mit 
einer Begebung von Asset Backed 
Securities durch die Emittentin oder 
Garantin oder durch eine 
Zweckgesellschaft, bei der die 
Emittentin oder die Garantin der 
Originator der zugrunde liegenden 
Vermögenswerte ist, sofern der 
Gesamtbetrag der auf diese Weise 
besicherten Verbindlichkeiten zu 
keinem Zeitpunkt EUR  75.000.000 
(oder den Gegenwert in einer anderen 
Währung) übersteigt; oder   (e) Security provided in connecti on with 
any issuance of asset backed securities 
by the Issuer or the Guarantor or by a 
special purpose vehicle where the Issuer 
or the Guarantor is the originator of the 
underlying assets, provided that the 
aggregate amount of liabilities so 
secured may no t exceed 
EUR  75,000,000 (or the equivalent in 
any other currency) at any time; or   
 
- 75 - 
 (f) andere Sicherheiten zur Besicherung 
von Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten, die 
bei Umrechnung in Euro zum dann 
geltenden Wechselkurs zusammen mit 
allen anderen 
Kapitalmarkt verbindlichkeiten, die 
gemäß diesem § 2 Absatz  (5)(f) 
besichert sind, EUR  150.000.000 nicht 
übersteigen.   (f) other Security securing Capital Market 
Indebtedness which when converted 
into euro at the then current exchange 
rate does not in the aggregate wit h all 
other Capital Market Indebtedness 
secured in reliance on this § 2(5)(f) 
exceed EUR  150,000,000 (or the 
equivalent in any other currency).  
Jede nach § 2 Absatz  (3) zu leistende 
Sicherheit kann auch zugunsten einer 
Person bestellt werden, die insoweit als 
Treuhänder der Gläubiger handelt.   Any Security which is to be provided 
pursuant to this § 2(3) may, 
alternatively, also be provided to a 
trustee for the Holders.  
§ 3 
ZINSEN   § 3 
INTEREST  
(1) Zinssatz und Zinszahlungstage . Die 
Schuldverschreibungen werden 
bezogen auf ihre Festgelegte Stückelung 
verzinst, und zwar vom 5. April  2023 
(der "Verzinsungsbeginn ") 
(einschließlich) bis zum Fälligkeitstag 
(ausschließlich) (wie in § 5 Absatz (1) 
definiert) mit jährlich 4,250  %. Die 
Zinsen sind nachträglich am 5. April  
eines jeden Jahres zahlbar (jeweils ein 
"Zinszahlungstag "). Die erste 
Zinszahlung erfolgt am 5. April  2024.   (1) Rate of Interest and Interest Payment 
Dates. The Notes shall bear interest on 
their Specified Denomination at the rate 
of 4.250  % per annum  from 
(and including) April 5,  2023 (the 
"Interest Commencement Date ") to 
(but excluding) the Maturity Date 
(as defined in § 5(1)). Interest shall be 
payable in a rrear on April 5  in each year 
(each such date, an " Interest Payment 
Date "). The first payment of interest 
shall be made on April 5,  2024.  
(2) Auflaufende Zinsen . Falls die Emittentin 
die Schuldverschreibungen bei 
Fälligkeit nicht einlöst, endet die 
Verzin sung der Schuldverschreibungen 
nicht am Tag der Fälligkeit, sondern erst 
zu dem Zeitpunkt, an dem das Kapital 
dem Clearing -System zur Verfügung 
gestellt worden sind. Die Verzinsung 
des ausstehenden Nennbetrages vom 
Tag der Fälligkeit an (einschließlich) bi s 
zum Tag der Rückzahlung der 
Schuldverschreibungen (ausschließlich) 
erfolgt zum gesetzlich festgelegten Satz 
für Verzugszinsen.2  (2) Accrual of Interest . If the Issuer fails to 
redeem the Notes when due, interest 
shall continue to accrue from 
(and inclu ding) the due date to 
(but excluding) such date as principal 
has been placed at the disposal of the 
Clearing System at the default rate of 
interest established by law.2 
(3) Berechnung der Zinsen für Teile von 
Zeiträumen . Sofern Zinsen für einen 
Zeitraum zu berechnen sind der kürzer 
als eine Zinsperiode ist, erfolgt die 
Berechnung auf der Grundlage des 
Zinst agequotienten (wie nachfolgend 
definiert).   (3) Calculation of Interest for Partial 
Periods . If interest is required to be 
calculated for a period which is shorter 
than an Interest Period, such interest 
shall be calculated on the basis of the 
Day Count Fra ction (as defined below).  
 
2 Der gesetzliche Verzugszinssatz beträgt fünf Prozentpunkte über dem von der Deutschen 
Bundesbank jeweils veröffentlichen Basiszinssatz, §§ 288 Abs. 1, 247 Abs. 1 BGB.  
The default interest rate established by is five percentage points above the base interest rate published 
by the Deutsche Bundesbank, §§ 288 (1), 247 (1) German Civil Code (BGB).  
 
- 76 - 
 (4) Zinstagequotient . "Zinstagequotient " 
bezeichnet im Hinblick auf die 
Berechnung von Zinsbeträgen für einen 
beliebigen Zeitraum 
(der "Zinsberechnungszeitraum ") die 
tatsächliche Anzahl von Tagen im 
Zinsberechnungszeitraum, geteilt durch 
die tatsächliche Anzahl von Tagen in der 
jeweiligen Zinsperiode.   (4) Day Count Fraction . "Day Count 
Fraction " means with regard to the 
calculation of the amount of interest for 
any period of time (the " Calculation 
Period") the actual number of days in 
the Calculation Period divided by the 
actual number of days in the respective 
interest period.  
"Zinsperiode " bezeichnet den Zeitraum 
ab dem Verzinsungsbeginn 
(einschließlich) bis zum ersten 
Zinszahlungstag (ausschließli ch) und 
danach ab dem jeweiligen 
Zinszahlungstag (einschließlich) bis 
zum nächstfolgenden Zinszahlungstag 
(ausschließlich).   "Interest Period " means the period from 
and including the Interest 
Commencement Date to but excluding 
the first Interest Payment Da te and 
thereafter from, and including, each 
relevant Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest 
Payment Date.  
§ 4 
ZAHLUNGEN   § 4 
PAYMENTS  
(1) Zahlungen . Zahlungen von Kapital und 
Zinsen auf die Schuldverschreibungen 
erfolgen, nach Maßgabe des 
nachstehenden Absatzes  (2), an das 
Clearing -System oder dessen Order zur 
Gutschrift auf den Konten der 
jeweiligen Kontoinhaber des Clearing -
Systems außerhalb der Vereinigten 
Staaten.   (1) Payments . Payments of principal and 
interest in respect of the Notes shall be 
made, subject to subparagraph (2) 
below, to the Clearing System or to its 
order for credit to the accounts of the 
relevant account holders of the Clearing 
System outside the United States.  
Die Zahlung von Zinsen auf 
Schuldverschreibungen, die durch die 
Vorläufige Globalurkunde verbrieft 
sind, erfolgt nach Maßgabe von Absatz 
(2) an das Clearing -System oder dessen 
Order zur Gutschrift auf den Konten der 
jeweiligen Kontoinhaber des Clearing -
Systems, und zwar nach 
ordnungsgemäßer Bescheinigung gemäß 
§ 1 Absatz ( 2) (b).   Payment of interest on Notes represented 
by the Temporary Global Note shall be 
made, subject to subparagraph (2), to the 
Clearing System or to its order for credit 
to the accoun ts of the relevant account 
holders of the Clearing System, upon due 
certification as provided in § 1(2)(b). 
(2) Zahlungsweise . Vorbehaltlich geltender 
steuerlicher und sonstiger gesetzlicher 
Regelungen und Vorschriften erfolgen 
zu leistende Zahlungen auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen in der 
Festgelegten Währung.   (2) Manner of Payment . Subject to 
applicable fiscal and other laws and 
regulations, payments of amounts due in 
respect of the Notes shall be made in the 
Specified Currency.  
(3) Erfüllung . Die Emitten tin bzw. die 
Garantin wird durch Leistung der 
Zahlung an das Clearing -System oder 
dessen Order von ihrer Zahlungspflicht 
gemäß den Schuldverschreibungen 
befreit.   (3) Discharge . The Issuer or, as the case 
may be, the Guarantor shall be 
discharged by payme nt to, or to the 
order of, the Clearing System.  
(4) Kein Verzug . Soweit rechtlich  zulässig, 
gerät die Emittentin mit ihrer  
Zahlungspflicht nicht in Verzug, wenn  
die Zahlung aufgrund eines Gesetzes   (4) No Default . To the extent legally  
permissible, the Issuer shall not be in  
default of its payment obligation under  
the Notes if payment to the Fisc al Agent 
 
- 77 - 
 oder einer Vorschrift nicht an die  
Zahlstelle oder das Clearing System  
geleistet wird und die Emittentin die  
Zahlung an die Zahlstelle oder das  
Clearing System nicht mit zumutbaren  
Maßnahmen bewirken kann. In diesem  
Fall ist eine Kündigung der  
Schuldverschreibungen nach  § 9 
Absatz  (1)(a) insoweit nicht  möglich . 
Zur Klarstellung: Die  Emittentin ist in 
keinem Fall  verpflichtet, direkt an einen 
Gläubiger  zu zahlen.  or the Clearing System is not  effected 
due to any law or regulation  provided 
that the Issuer cannot effect  payment to 
the Fiscal Agent or the  Clearing System 
by reasonable means.  In such case, a 
termination of the  Notes pursuant to 
§ 9(1)(a) shall not be  possible to this 
extent. For the  avoidance of doubt, in no 
event shall  the Issuer be obligated to pay 
directly  to any Holder.  
(5) Vereinigte Staaten . Für die Zwecke 
dieser Emissionsbedingungen 
bezeichnet " Vereinigte Staaten " die 
Verei nigten Staaten von Amerika 
(einschließlich deren Bundesstaaten und 
des District of Columbia) sowie deren 
Territorien (einschließlich Puerto Ricos, 
der U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, 
American Samoa, Wake Island und 
Northern Mariana Islands).   (5) United States . For the purposes of these 
Terms and Conditions " United States " 
means the United States of America 
(including the States thereof and the 
District of Columbia) and its 
possessions (including Puerto Rico, the 
U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American 
Samoa, Wake I sland and Northern 
Mariana Islands).  
(6) Geschäftstag . Fällt der Fälligkeitstag 
einer Zahlung in Bezug auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen auf einen Tag, 
der kein Geschäftstag ist, dann hat der 
Gläubiger keinen Anspruch auf Zahlung 
vor dem nächsten Geschäftstag  am 
jeweiligen Geschäftsort. Der Gläubiger 
ist nicht berechtigt, etwaige Zahlungen 
aufgrund dieser Verspätung zu 
verlangen. Für diese Zwecke bezeichnet 
"Geschäftstag " jeden Tag (außer einem 
Samstag oder Sonntag), an dem das 
Clearing -System sowie alle betro ffenen 
Bereiche des T 2 oder dessen Nachfolger 
oder Ersatzsystem Zahlungen 
abwickeln.   (6) Business Day . If the date for payment of 
any amount in respect of the Notes is not 
a Business Day then the Holder shall not 
be entitled to payment until the next 
such day in the relevant place and shall 
not be entitled to any payment in respect 
of such delay. For these purposes, 
"Business Day " means any day (other 
than a Saturday or a Sunday) on which 
the Clearing System  as well as all 
relevant parts of the T 2 or a ny 
successor/replacement system settle 
payments.  
(7) Bezugnahmen auf Kapital und Zinsen . 
Bezugnahmen in diesen 
Emissionsbedingungen auf Kapital der 
Schuldverschreibungen schließen, 
soweit anwendbar, die folgenden 
Beträge ein: den Rückzahlungsbetrag; 
den v orzeitigen Rückzahlungsbetrag; 
den Make -Whole Rückzahlungsbetrag, 
sowie jeden Aufschlag sowie sonstige 
auf oder in Bezug auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen zahlbaren 
Beträge. Bezugnahmen in diesen 
Emissionsbedingungen auf Zinsen auf 
die Schuldverschreibungen sc hließen, 
soweit anwendbar, sämtliche gemäß § 7 
zahlbaren Zusätzlichen Beträge ein.   (7) References to Principal and Interest . 
References in these Terms and 
Conditions to principal in respect of the 
Notes shall be deemed to include, as 
applicable: the Final  Redemption 
Amount; the Early Redemption 
Amount; the Make -Whole Redemption 
Amount, and any premium and any 
other amounts which may be payable 
under or in respect of the Notes. 
References in these Terms and 
Conditions to interest in respect of the 
Notes sha ll be deemed to include, as 
applicable, any Additional Amounts 
which may be payable under § 7. 
(8) Hinterlegungen . Die Emittentin ist 
berechtigt, beim Amtsgericht München 
Zins- oder Kapitalbeträge zu  (8) Deposits . The Issuer may deposit with 
the local court ( Amtsgericht ) in Munich 
principal or interest or not claimed by 
 
- 78 - 
 hinterlegen, die von den Gläubigern 
nicht innerhalb von  zwölf Monaten nach 
dem Fälligkeitstag beansprucht worden 
sind, auch wenn die Gläubiger sich nicht 
in Annahmeverzug befinden. Soweit 
eine solche Hinterlegung erfolgt und auf 
das Recht der Rücknahme verzichtet 
wird, erlöschen die diesbezüglichen 
Ansprüche d er Gläubiger gegen die 
Emittentin.  Holders within twelve months after the 
Maturity Date, even though such 
Holders may not be in default of 
acceptance of payment. If and to the 
extent that the deposit is effected and the 
right of withdrawal is waived, the 
respective claims of such Holders 
against the Issuer shall cease.  
§ 5 
RÜCKZAHLUNG   § 5 
REDEMPTION  
(1) Rückzahlung bei Endfällig keit. Soweit 
nicht zuvor bereits ganz oder teilweise 
zurückgezahlt oder angekauft und 
entwertet, werden die 
Schuldverschreibungen am 
5. April  2029  (der "Fälligkeitstag ") zu 
ihrem Rückzahlungsbetrag 
zurückgezahlt. Der 
"Rückzahlungsbetrag " entspricht dem 
Nennbetrag der Schuldverschreibungen.   (1) Redemption at Maturity . Unless 
previously redeemed in whole or in part 
or purchased and cancelled, the Notes 
shall be redeemed at their Final 
Redemption Amount  on April 5,  2029  
(the "Maturity Date "). The " Final 
Redemption Amount " in respect of 
each Note shall be its principal a mount.  
(2) Vorzeitige Rückzahlung aus 
steuerlichen Gründen . Die 
Schuldverschreibungen können 
insgesamt, jedoch nicht teilweise, nach 
Wahl der Emittentin mit einer 
Kündigungsfrist von nicht weniger als 
30 und nicht mehr als 60 Tagen durch 
Erklärung gegenüber de r 
Emissionsstelle  und gemäß § 12 
gegenüber den Gläubigern vorzeitig 
gekündigt und zu ihrem vorzeitigen 
Rückzahlungsbetrag (wie nachfolgend 
definiert) zuzüglich bis zum für die 
Rückzahlung festgesetzten Tag 
aufgelaufener Zinsen zurückg ezahlt 
werden, falls die Emittentin oder die 
Garantin als Folge einer Änderung oder 
Ergänzung der Steuer - oder 
Abgabengesetze und -vorschriften der 
Bundesrepublik Deutschland oder der 
Niederlande oder deren politischen 
Untergliederungen oder Steuerbehörden  
oder als Folge einer Änderung oder 
Ergänzung der Anwendung oder der 
offiziellen Auslegung  der zuständigen 
Steuerbehörden oder Gerichte dieser 
Gesetze und Vorschriften 
(vorausgesetzt, diese Änderung oder 
Ergänzung wird am oder nach dem Tag, 
an dem die letz te Tranche dieser Serie 
von Schuldverschreibungen begeben 
wird, wirksam) am nächstfolgenden 
Zinszahlungstag (wie in § 3 (1) 
definiert) zur Zahlung von Zusätzlichen 
Beträgen (wie in § 7 definiert) 
verpflichtet sein wird und diese  (2) Early Redemption for Reasons of 
Taxation . If as a result of any change in, 
or amendment to, the laws or regulations 
of the Federal Repub lic of Germany or 
the Netherlands or any political 
subdivision or taxing authority thereto 
or therein affecting taxation or the 
obligation to pay duties of any kind, or 
any change in, or amendment to, an 
official interpretation or application  by 
the compet ent taxing authority or courts  
of such laws or regulations, which 
amendment or change is effective on or 
after the date on which the last tranche 
of this series of Notes was issued, the 
Issuer, respectively the Guarantor, is 
required to pay Additional Amou nts (as 
defined in § 7) on the next succeeding 
Interest Payment Date (as defined in 
§ 3 (1)), and this obligation cannot be 
avoided by the use of reasonable 
measures available to the Issuer, 
respectively the Guarantor, as the case 
may be, the Notes may be redeemed, in 
whole but not in part, at the option of the 
Issuer, upon not more than 60 days' nor 
less than 30 days' prior notice of 
redemption given to the Fiscal Agent 
and, in accordance with § 12 to the 
Holders, at their Early Redemption 
Amount (as defin ed below), together 
with interest accrued to the date fixed 
for redemption.  
 
- 79 - 
 Verpflichtung nicht durch d as Ergreifen 
zumutbarer, der Emittentin bzw. der 
Garantin zur Verfügung stehender 
Maßnahmen vermieden werden kann.  
Eine solche Kündigung darf allerdings 
nicht (i) früher als 90 Tage vor dem 
frühestmöglichen Termin erfolgen, an 
dem die Emittentin bzw. die Garantin 
verpflichtet wäre, solche Zusä tzlichen 
Beträge zu zahlen, falls eine Zahlung auf 
die Schuldverschreibungen dann fällig 
sein würde, oder (ii) erfolgen, wenn zu 
dem Zeitpunkt, zu dem die Kündigung 
erklärt wird, die Verpflichtung zur 
Zahlung von Zusätzlichen Beträgen 
nicht mehr wirksam is t.  However, no such notice of redemption 
may be given (i) earlier than 90 days 
prior to the earliest date on which the 
Issuer or the Guarantor would be 
obligated to pay such Additional 
Amounts were a payment in respect of 
the Notes then due, or (ii) if at  the time 
such notice is given, such obligation to 
pay such Additional Amounts does not 
remain in effect.  
Eine solche Kündigung hat gemäß § 12 
zu erfolgen. Sie ist unwiderruflich, muss 
den für die Rückzahlung festgelegten 
Termin nennen und eine 
zusammenfa ssende Erklärung enthalten, 
welche die das Rückzahlungsrecht der 
Emittentin begründenden Umstände 
darlegt.   Any such notice shall be given in 
accordance with § 12. It shall be 
irrevocable, must specify the date fixed 
for redemption and must set forth a 
statement in summary form of the facts 
constituting the basis for the right of the 
Issuer so to redeem.  
(3) Vorzeitige Rückzahlung nach Wahl der 
Emittentin .  (3) Early Redemption at the Option of the 
Issuer . 
(a) Die Emittentin kann, nachdem sie 
gemäß Absatz (b) gekündigt hat, die 
Schuldverschreibungen insgesamt oder 
teilweise innerhalb des/der Wahl -
Rückzahlungszeitraum (Call) zum 
vorzeitigen Rückzahlungsbetrag (wie 
nachstehend definiert) nebst etwaigen 
bis zum Wahl -Rückzahlungstag (Call) 
(ausschließlic h) aufgelaufenen Zinsen 
zurückzahlen.   (a) The Issuer may, upon notice given in 
accordance with clause (b), redeem all 
or some only of the Notes within the 
Call Redemption Period at their Early 
Redemption Amount (as defined below) 
together with accrued int erest, if any, to 
(but excluding) the Call Redemption 
Date.  
"Wahl -Rückzahlungszeitraum (Call) " 
bezeichnet in Bezug auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen den Zeitraum ab 
dem 5. Januar  2029  (einschließlich) bis 
zum Fälligkeitstag (ausschließlich).   "Call Redemption  Period " means in 
relation to the Notes the period from, and 
including January 5,  2029  to, but 
excluding, the Maturity Date.  
(b) Die Kündigung ist gegenüber de r 
Emissionsstelle und den Gläubigern 
durch die Emittentin gemäß § 12 
bekanntzugeben. Sie beinhal tet die 
folgenden Angaben:   (b) Notice of redemption shall be given by 
the Issuer to the Fiscal Agent and,  in 
accordance with § 12 to the Holders . 
Such notice shall specify:  
(i) die zurückzuzahlende Serie 
von Schuldverschreibungen;   (i) the series of Notes subject to 
redemption;  
(ii) eine Erklärung, ob diese Serie 
ganz oder teilweise 
zurückgezahlt wird und im 
letzteren Fall den 
Gesamtnennbetrag der  (ii) whether such series is to be 
redeemed in whole or in part 
only and, if in part only, the 
aggregate principal amount of 
 
- 80 - 
 zurückzuzahlenden 
Schuldverschreibungen; und  the Notes which are to be 
redeemed; and  
(iii) den Wahl -Rückzahlungstag 
(Call), der nicht weniger als 30 
und nicht mehr als 60 Tage 
nach dem Tag der Kündigung 
durch die Emittentin 
gegenüb er den Gläubigern 
liegen darf.   (iii) the Call Redemption Date, 
which shall be not less than 30 
nor more than 60 days after the 
date on which notice is given 
by the Issuer to the Holders.  
"Wahl -Rückzahlungstag (Call) " 
bezeichnet den Tag, der für die 
Rückz ahlung der 
Schuldverschreibungen gemäß 
§ 5 (3) (b) festgesetzt wurde.   "Call Redemption Date " means the date 
fixed for redemption of the Notes 
pursuant to §5 (3) (b).  
Wenn die Schuldverschreibungen nur 
teilweise zurückgezahlt werden, werden 
die zurückzuzahlenden 
Schuldverschreibungen in 
Übereinstimmung mit den Regeln des 
betreffenden Clearing -Systems 
ausgewählt.   In the case of a partial redemption of 
Notes, Notes to be redeemed shall be 
selected in accordance with the rules of 
the relevant Clear ing System.  
(4) Vorzeitiger Rückzahlungsbetrag . 
Für die Zwecke der Absätze (2) und (3) 
dieses § 5 und des § 9, entspricht der 
"vorzeitige Rückzahlungsbetrag " 
einer Schuldverschreibung dem 
Rückzahlungsbetrag.   (4) Early Redemption Amount . 
For purposes of s ubparagraphs (2) and 
(3) of this § 5 and § 9, the " Early 
Redemption Amount " of a Note shall 
be its Final Redemption Amount.  
(5) Vorzeitige Rückzahlung nach Wahl der 
Emittentin bei geringem ausstehendem 
Nennbetrag . Falls die Emittentin 
Schuldverschreibunge n in einem 
Gesamtnennbetrag von 80 % oder mehr 
des ursprünglich begebenen 
Gesamtnennbetrages der 
Schuldverschreibungen hält, kann die 
Emittentin die verbleibenden 
Schuldverschreibungen (insgesamt, 
jedoch nicht teilweise) jederzeit mit 
einer Frist von nicht  weniger als 
30 Tagen durch Erklärung gegenüber 
der Emissionsstelle und gemäß § 12 
gegenüber den Gläubigern kündigen 
und zum Rückzahlungsbetrag nebst 
etwaiger bis zum Rückzahlungstag 
(ausschließlich) aufgelaufener Zinsen 
zurückzahlen.   (5) Early Redemption for Reason of 
Minimal Outstanding Amount . In the 
event that the Issuer holds Notes equal 
to or in excess of 80 % of the aggregate 
principal amount of the Notes initially 
issued, the Issuer may call and redeem 
the remaining Notes (in whole but no t in 
part) at any time upon giving not less 
than 30 days' prior notice of redemption 
to the Fiscal Agent and, in accordance 
with § 12 to the Holders, at the Final 
Redemption Amount plus accrued 
interest until the date of redemption 
(excluding).  
(6) Kontro llwechsel . Tritt ein 
Kontrollwechsel ein und kommt es 
innerhalb des Kontrollwechselzeitraums 
zu einer Absenkung des Ratings auf 
Grund des eingetretenen 
Kontrollwechsels (zusammen, ein 
"Rückzahlungsereignis "), hat jeder 
Gläubiger das Recht (sofern nicht die  
Emittentin, bevor die nachstehend  (6) Change of Control . If there occurs a 
Change of Control and within the 
Change of Control Period a R ating 
Downgrade in respect of that Change of 
Control occurs (together called a " Put 
Event "), each Holder will have the 
option (unless, prior to the giving of the 
Put Event Notice referred to below, the 
Issuer gives notice to redeem the Notes 
 
- 81 - 
 beschriebene Rückzahlungsmitteilung 
gemacht wird, die Rückzahlung der 
Schuldverschreibungen nach § 5 (2), 
(3), (5)  oder (7) angezeigt hat), am 
Rückzahlungstag  (Kontrollwechsel) die 
Rückzahlung seiner 
Schuldverschreibungen  durch die 
Emittentin  zu 101 % des  Nennbetrag s, 
zuzüglich bis zum Rückzahlungstag  
(Kontrollwechsel)  aufgelaufener Zinsen 
(ausschließlich), zu verlangen.  in accordance with § 5(2), (3) , (5) or (7)) 
to require the Issuer to redeem that Note 
on the Redemption  Date  (Change of 
Control)  at 101% of the principal 
amount together with interest accrued to 
but excluding the Redemption Date  
(Change of Control) . 
Für Zwecke dieses Wahlrechts:   For the purposes of such option:  
"Rating Agentur " bezeichnet jeweils 
S&P Global Inc. ("S&P ") und 
Moody's  Investors Service, Inc. 
("Moody's ") und jede ihrer jeweiligen 
Tochter - oder Nachfolgegesellschaften 
oder jede andere Rating Agentur 
vergleichbaren internationalen 
Ansehens, wie von Zeit zu Zeit durch  die 
Emittentin bestimmt;   "Rating Agency " means each of 
S&P  Global Inc. (" S&P ") and Moody's  
Investors Services (" Moody's ") or any 
of their respective subsidiaries or 
successors or any other rating agency of 
equivalent international standing 
specified from time to time by the Issuer;  
Gilt eine " Absenkung des Ratings " in 
Bezug auf einen Kontrollwechsel als 
eingetreten, wenn (a) innerhalb des 
Kontrollwechselzeitraums ein vorher für 
die Garantin oder die 
Schuldverschreibungen vergebenes 
Rating e iner Rating Agentur 
(i) zurückgezogen oder (ii) von einem 
Investment Grade Rating (BBB - von 
S&P/Baa3 von Moody's oder jeweils 
gleichwertig, oder besser) in ein non -
Investment Grade Rating (BB+ von 
S&P/Ba1 von Moody's oder jeweils 
gleichwertig, oder schlech ter) geändert 
oder (iii) (falls das für die 
Schuldverschreibungen vergebene 
Rating einer Rating Agentur unterhalb 
des Investment Grade Ratings liegt) um 
einen ganzen Punkt (von BB+ nach BB 
von S&P oder Ba1 nach Ba2 von 
Moody's oder eine ähnliche Absenkung 
eines gleichwertigen Ratings) abgesenkt 
wird oder (b) zur Zeit des 
Kontrollwechsels kein Rating für die 
Schuldverschreibungen oder die 
Garantin vergeben ist und keine Rating 
Agentur während des 
Kontrollwechselzeitraums ein 
Investment Grade Rating für die 
Schuldverschreibungen vergibt (es sei 
denn, die Garantin ist trotz zumutbarer 
Anstrengungen innerhalb dieses 
Zeitraums nicht in der Lage, ein solches 
Rating zu erhalten, ohne dass dies seine 
Ursache im Kontrollwechsel hat);   A " Rating Downgrade " shall be 
deemed to have occurred in respect of a 
Change of Control (a) if within the 
Change of Control Period any rating 
previously assigned to the Guarantor or 
the Notes by any Rating Agency is 
(i) withdrawn or (ii) changed from an 
investment grade rating (BBB - by 
S&P/Baa3 by Moody's, or its equivalent 
for the time being, or better) to a non -
investment grade rating (BB+ by 
S&P/Ba1 by Moody's, or its equivalent 
for the time being, or worse) or 
(iii) (if the rating assigned to the Notes 
by any Rating Agency shall be be low an 
investment grade rating) lowered one 
full rating notch (from BB+ to BB by 
S&P or Ba1 to Ba2 by Moody's or such 
similar lower of equivalent rating) or 
(b) if at the time of the Change of 
Control, there is no rating assigned to the 
Notes or the Guaran tor and no Rating 
Agency assigns during the Change of 
Control Period an investment grade 
credit rating to the Notes (unless the 
Guarantor  is unable to obtain such a 
rating within such period having used all 
reasonable endeavours to do so and such 
failure i s unconnected with the 
occurrence of the Change of Control);  
 
- 82 - 
 Gilt ein " Kontrollwechsel " jedes Mal 
als eingetreten, wenn eine Person oder 
mehrere Personen (die " relevante(n) 
Person(en) "), die abgestimmt handeln, 
oder einer oder mehrere Dritte, die im 
Auftr ag der relevanten Person(en) 
handeln, zu irgendeiner Zeit mittelbar 
oder unmittelbar (unabhängig davon, ob 
der Vorstand oder der Aufsichtsrat der 
Garantin  seine Zustimmung erteilt hat) 
(i) mehr als 50  % des ausstehenden 
Grundkapitals der Garantin  oder (ii)  eine 
solche Anzahl von Aktien der Garantin  
hält bzw. halten oder erworben hat bzw. 
haben, auf die mehr als 50  % der 
Stimmrechte entfallen;   A "Change of Control " shall be deemed 
to have occurred at each time (whether 
or not approved by the Management 
Boar d or Supervisory Board of the 
Guarantor) that any person or persons 
("Relevant Person(s) ") acting in concert 
or any person or persons acting on behalf 
of any such Relevant Person(s), at any 
time directly or indirectly acquire(s) or 
come(s) to own (i) more than 50 % of the 
issued ordinary share capital of the 
Guarantor  or (ii) such number of the 
shares in the capital of the Guarantor  
carrying more than 50  % of the voting 
rights;  
Ist der " Kontrollwechselzeitraum " der 
Zeitraum, der 90 Tage nach dem Eintritt 
eines Kontrollwechsels endet; und   "Change of Control Period " means the 
period ending 90 days after the 
occurrence of the Change of Control; 
and 
Ist der " Rückzahlungstag  
(Kontrollwechsel) " der siebte Tag nach 
dem letzten Tag des 
Rückzahlungszeitraums.   The " Redemption Date  (Change of 
Control) " is the seventh day after the 
last day of the Put Period.  
Sofort nachdem die Emittentin von 
einem Rückzahlungsereignis Kenntnis 
erlangt, wird die Emittentin den 
Gläubigern gemäß § 12 Mitteil ung vom 
Rückzahlungsereignis machen (eine 
"Rückzahlungsmitteilung "), in der die 
Umstände des Rückzahlungsereignisses 
sowie das Verfahren für die Ausübung 
des in diesem § 5 (6) genannten 
Wahlrechts angegeben sind.   Promptly upon the Issuer becoming 
aware th at a Put Event has occurred, the 
Issuer shall give notice (a " Put Event 
Notice ") to the Holders in accordance 
with § 12 specifying the nature of the Put 
Event and the circumstances giving rise 
to it and the procedure for exercising the 
option set out in th is § 5 (6). 
Zur Ausübung dieses Wahlrechts muss 
der Gläubiger während der normalen 
Geschäftsstunden innerhalb eines 
Zeitraums 
(der "Rückzahlungszeitraum ") von 
45 Tagen, nachdem die 
Rückzahlungsmitteilung veröffentlicht 
ist, eine ordnungsgemäß ausgefüllte und 
unterzeichnete Ausübungserklärung bei 
der angegebenen Niederlassung der 
Emissionsstelle einreichen 
(die "Ausübungserklärung "), die in 
ihrer jeweils maßgeblichen Form bei der 
angegebenen Niederlassung der 
Emissionsstelle erhältlich ist. Ein so 
ausgeübte s Wahlrecht kann nicht ohne 
vorherige Zustimmung der Emittentin 
widerrufen oder zurückgezogen werden.   In order to exercise such option, the 
Holder must submit during normal 
business hours at the specified office of 
the Fiscal Agent a duly completed option 
exercise notice (" Exercise Notice ") in 
the form available from the specified 
office of the Fiscal Agent within the 
period (the " Put Period ") of 45 days 
after a Put Event Notice is given. No 
option so exercised may be revoked or 
withdrawn w ithout the prior consent of 
the Issuer.  
 
- 83 - 
 (7) Vorzeitige Rückzahlung zum Make -
Whole Rückzahlungsbetrag .  (7) Early Redemption at the Make -Whole 
Redemption Amount . 
(a) Die Emittentin kann, nachdem sie 
gemäß § 5 (7)(f) gekündigt hat, die 
Schuldverschreibungen insgesamt oder 
teilweise jederzeit bis zum Make -Whole 
Wahlrückzahlungstag (ausschließlich), 
zurückzahlen.   (a) The Issuer may, upon notice given in 
accordance with § 5 (7)(f), redeem all or 
some only of the  Notes at any time to but 
excluding the Make -Whole Call 
Redemption Date . 
Die gemäß diesem § 5(7) 
zurückzuzahlenden 
Schuldverschreibungen werden zum 
Make -Whole Rückzahlungsbetrag 
zuzüglich etwaiger bis zu m Make -
Whole Wahlr ückzahlungstag 
(ausschließlich) au fgelaufener Zinsen 
zurückgezahlt.   Notes to be redeemed pursuant to this 
§ 5(7) will be redeemed at their Make -
Whole  Redemption Amount together 
with interest, if any, accrued to but 
excluding the Make -Whole Call 
Redemption Date . 
(b) Der " Make -Whole 
Rückzahlungsbetrag " je 
Schuldverschreibung entspricht dem 
höheren der folgenden Beträge:   (b) The " Make -Whole Redemption 
Amount " per Note shall be the higher 
of: 
(i) der Festgelegten Stückelung; 
oder  (i) the Specified Denomination; or  
(ii) dem Abgezinsten Marktwert.   (ii) the Present Value.  
Der Make -Whole Rückzahlungsbetrag 
wird von der Make -Whole 
Berechnungsstelle berechnet.   The Make -Whole Redemption Amount 
shall be calculated by the Make -Whole 
Calculation Agent.  
(c) Der " Abgezinste Marktwert " ist die 
Summe aus   (c) The " Present Value " will be the sum of  
(i) dem auf den Rückzahlungstag 
abgezinsten Wert de r 
Festgelegten Stückelung  der 
zurückzuzahlenden 
Schuldverschreibung, wobei 
unterstellt wird, dass die 
Schuldverschreibun gen am 
5. Januar  2029  zurückgezahlt 
würden ; und   (i) the Specified Denomination to 
be redeemed assuming for this 
purpose that the Notes would 
be redeemed on 
January  5, 2029 discounted to 
the Make -Whole Call 
Redemption Date ; and  
(ii) den jeweil igen auf den 
Rückzahlungstag abgezinsten 
Wert der verbleibenden 
Zinszahlungen, die ansonsten 
an jedem Zinszahlungstag nach 
dem Make -Whole 
Wahlrückzahlungstag bis zum 
5. Januar  2029  (einschließlich) 
(wobei unterstellt wird, dass 
der Zinslauf a m 5. Januar  2029  
(ausschließlich) endet) fällig 
werden würden (ausschließlich 
etwaiger, bis zum Make -
Whole Wahlrückzahlungstag   (ii) the remaining interest 
payments which would 
otherwise become due on each 
Interest Payment Date falling 
after the Make -Whole Call 
Redemption Date  to and 
including January  5, 2029  
(assuming for this purpose that 
interest would cease to accrue 
on but excludin g 
January  5, 2029 ) (excluding 
any interest accrued to but 
excluding the Make -Whole 
Call Redemption Date ), each 
 
- 84 - 
 (ausschließlich) aufgelaufener 
Zinsen).  discounted to the redemption 
date.  
(d) Die Make -Whole Berechnungsstelle 
errechnet den Abgezinsten Marktwert 
gemäß der Marktkonvention auf einer 
Grundlage, die der Berechnung von 
Zinsen gemäß § 3 entspricht, unter 
Anwendung eines Abzinsungssatzes, 
welcher  der Benchmark -Rendite 
zuzüglich 0,300  % entspricht.   (d) The Make -Whole Calculation Agent 
will calculate the Present Value in 
accordance with market convention on a 
basis which is consistent with the 
calculation of interest as set out in § 3, 
using a discount rate equal to the 
Benchmark Yield plus 0.300 %. 
Die "Benchmark -Rendite " bezeichnet 
die am Rückzahlungs -Berechnungstag 
bestehende Rendite der entsprechenden 
Euro -Referenz -Anleihe der 
Bundesrepublik Deutschland  wie gegen 
12:00 Uhr mittags  (Frankfurter Zeit) an 
diesem Tag auf der Bloomberg Seite  
DE0001102465  Govt HP (unter Nutzung 
der Einstellung "Last Yield to 
Convention" und der Preisquelle 
"FRNK")  abgelesen, oder wie von einer 
anderen, durch die Make -Whole 
Berechnungsstelle festgelegten, Quelle 
hergeleitet oder veröffentlicht  oder sollte 
die Rendite zu diese m Zeitpunkt nicht 
verfügbar sein, bezeichnet die 
Benchmark -Rendite eine ersetzende 
Referenzanleihe, die von der Make -
Whole Berechnungsstelle festgesetzt 
wird, die jeweils mit einer Laufzeit, die 
mit der verbleibenden Restlaufzeit der 
Schuldverschreibung bi s zum 
Endfälligkeitstag vergleichbar ist, und 
die im Zeitpunkt der 
Auswahlentscheidung und entsprechend 
der üblichen Finanzmarktpraxis zur 
Preisbestimmung bei Neuemissionen 
von Unternehmensanleihen mit einer bis 
zum Endfälligkeitstag der 
Schuldverschreibun g vergleichbaren 
Laufzeit verwendet werden würde.   The " Benchmark Yield " means the 
yield at the Redemption Calculation 
Date of the corresponding euro 
denominated benchmark debt security of 
the Federal Republic of Germany , as 
observed at around noon  (Frankf urt 
time)  on such date on Bloomberg page 
DE0001102465  Govt HP (using the 
setting "Last Yield to Convention" and 
using the pricing source  "FRNK"), or as 
derived or published by such other 
source as determined by the Make -
Whole Calculation Agent , and if such  
yield is not available at that time the 
Benchmark Yield shall be the yield of a 
substitute benchmark security chosen by 
the Make -Whole Calculation Agent, in 
each case as having a maturity 
comparable to the remaining term of the 
Note to the Maturity Date, that would be 
used at the time of selection and in 
accordance with customary financial 
practice, in pricing new issues of 
corporate debt securities of comparable 
maturity to the Maturity Date.  
"Rückzahlungs -Berechnungstag " ist 
der sechste Geschäftstag vor dem Tag, 
an dem die Schuldverschreibungen 
gemäß diesem § 5(7) zurückgezahlt 
werden.   "Redemption Calculation Date " means 
the sixth Business Day prior to the date 
on which the Notes are redeemed in 
accordance with this § 5(7).  
(e) Die Emittentin hat am Rückzahlungs -
Berechnungstag unmittelbar nach 
Bestimmung des Make -Whole 
Rückzahlungsbetrags durch die Make -
Whole Berechnungsstelle diesen den 
Anleihegläubigern durch 
Veröffentlichung einer 
Bekanntmachung gemäß § 12 bekannt  
zu machen.   (e) The Issuer shall on the Redemption 
Calculation Date immediately after the 
Make -Whole Redemption Amount has 
been fixed by the Make -Whole 
Calculation Agent notify such Make -
Whole Redemption Amount to the 
Holders in accordance with § 12. 
 
- 85 - 
 (f) Die Kündigung ist der Emissionsstelle 
und gemäß § 12 den Anleihegläubigern 
mit einer Kündigungsfrist von nicht 
weniger als 30 Tagen bekannt zu geben. 
Sie ist unwiderruflich und beinhaltet die 
folgenden Angaben:   (f) Notice of redemption shall be given by 
the Issuer to the Fiscal Agent and, in 
accordance with § 12, to the Holders on 
giving not less than 30 days' prior notice 
of redemption. Such notice shall be 
irrevocable and shall specify:  
(i) die zurückzuzahlende Serie 
von Schuldverschreibungen;   (i) the series of Notes subject to 
redemption;  
(ii) den Rückzahlungstag, an dem 
die betreffenden 
Schuldverschreibungen 
zurückgezahlt werden  
(der "Make -Whole 
Wahlrückzahlungstag ") und  (ii) the redemption date on which 
the Notes wil l be redeemed  
(the " Make -Whole Call 
Redemption Date "); and  
(iii) den Namen und die 
Geschäftsstelle der Institution, 
welche durch die Emittentin als 
Make -Whole 
Berechnungsstelle ernannt 
wurde.   (iii) name and address of the 
institution appointed by the 
Issuer as Make -Whole 
Calculation Agent.  
§ 6 
DIE EMISSIONSSTELLE UND  
DIE ZAHLSTELLE   § 6 
THE FISCAL AGENT AND  
THE PAYING AGENT  
(1) Bestellung; bezeichnete Geschäftsstelle . 
Die anfänglich bestellte 
Emissionsstelle, die zugleich die 
Zahlstellenfunktion übernimmt, und 
ihre anfänglich bezeichneten  
Geschäftsstellen lauten wie folgt:   (1) Appointment; Specified Offices . The 
initial Fiscal Agent, which shall also 
carry out paying agent duties and their 
respective initial specified offices  are: 
Emissionsstelle und Zahlstelle :  Fiscal Agent and Paying Agent:  
BNP PARIBAS, Luxembourg Branch  
60 avenue J.F. Kennedy  
2085 Luxemburg  
Großherzogtum Luxembourg   BNP PARIBAS, Luxembourg Branch  
60 avenue J.F. Kennedy  
2085 Luxembourg  
Grand -Duchy of Luxembourg  
"Make -Whole Berechnungsstelle " 
bezeichnet eine unabhängige 
international anerkannte Bank oder eine 
unabhängige Finanzberaterin mit 
einschlägiger Expertise, die von der 
Emittentin auf eigene Kosten rechtzeitig 
vor Ausübung des Kündigungsrechts 
gemäß § 5 (7) ausgewählt und bestellt 
werden wird.   "Make -Whole Calculation Agent " 
means an independent bank of 
international standing or an independent 
financial adviser with relevant expertise, 
which will be selected and appointed by 
the Issuer at its own expense in good 
time prior to the exercise of the call right 
in accordance with  § 5 (7).  
Alle Bescheinigungen, Mitteilungen, 
Gutachten, Festsetzungen, 
Berechnungen, Quotierungen und 
Entscheidungen, die von der Make -
Whole Berechnungsstelle für die 
Zwecke des § 5 gemacht, abgegeben, 
getroffen oder eingeholt werden, sind 
(sofern nicht ein offensichtlicher Irrtum 
vorliegt) für die Emittentin, die  All certificates, communications, 
opinions, determinations, calculations, 
quotations and decisions given, 
expressed, made or obtained for the 
purposes of the provisions of § 5 by the 
Make -Whole Calculation Agent shall 
(in the absence of manifest error) be 
 
- 86 - 
 Emissionsstelle, die Zahlstelle und die 
Gläubiger bindend.  binding on the Issuer, the Fiscal Agent, 
the Paying Agent and the Holders.  
Die Emissionsstelle, die Zahlstelle und 
die Make -Whole Berechnungsstelle 
behalten sich das Recht vor, jederzeit mit 
Zustimmung der Emittentin ihre 
bezeichneten Geschäftsstellen dur ch 
eine andere bezeichnete Geschäftsstelle 
in demselben Land zu ersetzen und dies 
gemäß § 12 bekannt zu machen.   The Fiscal Agent, the Paying Agent and 
the Make -Whole Calculation Agent 
reserve the right at any time to change, 
with the approval of the Issue r, their 
respective specified offices to some 
other specified office in the same 
country upon giving notice thereof in 
accordance with § 12. 
(2) Änderung der Bestellung oder 
Abberufung . Die Emittentin behält sich 
das Recht vor, mit Zustimmung der 
Garantin  jederzeit die Bestellung der 
Emissionsstelle, der Zahlstelle  oder der 
Make -Whole Berechnungsstelle zu 
ändern oder zu beenden und eine andere 
Emissionsstelle, zusätzliche oder andere 
Zahlstellen oder eine andere Make -
Whole Berechnungsstelle zu bestellen. 
Die Emittentin wird zu jedem Zeitpunkt 
eine Emissionsstelle unterhalten. Die 
Emittentin wird die Gläubiger von jeder 
Änderung, Abberufung, Bestellung oder 
jedem sonstigen Wechsel so bald wie 
möglich nach Eintritt der Wirksamkeit 
einer solchen Veränderung in formieren.   (2) Variation or Termination of 
Appointment . The Issuer reserves the 
right subject to the consent of the 
Guarantor at any time to vary or 
terminate the appointment of the Fiscal 
Agent, the Paying Agent  or the Make -
Whole Calculation Agent and to  appoint 
another Fiscal Agent, or additional or 
other paying agent or another  Make -
Whole Calculation Agent. The Issuer 
shall at all times maintain a fiscal agent. 
The Issuer will give notice to the 
Holders of any variation, termination, 
appointment or any other change as soon 
as possible upon the effectiveness of 
such change.  
(3) Erfüllungsgehilfen der Emittentin . Die 
Emissionsstelle, die Zahlstelle und  die 
Make -Whole Berechnungsstelle 
handeln ausschließlich als 
Erfüllungsgehilfen der Emittentin und 
überne hmen keinerlei Verpflichtungen 
gegenüber den Gläubigern und es wird 
kein Auftrags - oder Treuhandverhältnis 
zwischen ihnen und den Gläubigern 
begründet.   (3) Agents of the Issuer . The Fiscal Agent , 
the Paying Agent and the Make -Whole 
Calculation Agent act solely as agents of 
the Issuer and do not have any 
obligations towards or relationship of 
agency or trust to any Holder.  
§ 7 
STEUERN   § 7 
TAXATION  
(1) Sämtliche von der Emittentin oder der 
Garantin auf die Schuldverschreibungen 
zu zahlenden Beträge sind ohne 
Einbehalt oder Abzug von oder 
aufgrund von gegenwärtigen oder 
zukünftigen Steuern oder sonstigen 
Abgaben gleich welcher Art zu leisten, 
es sei denn, ein solcher Einbehalt oder 
Abzug ist gesetzlich vorgeschrieben. 
Sofern solche Steuern von  oder in den 
Niederlanden oder der Bundesrepublik 
Deutschland oder für deren Rechnung 
oder von oder für Rechnung einer dort 
zur Steuererhebung ermächtigten 
Gebietskörperschaft oder Behörde 
auferlegt oder erhoben werden, wird die 
Emittentin diejenigen zusät zlichen  (1) All amounts payable  by the Issuer or the 
Guarantor  in respect of the Notes shall 
be made without withhol ding or 
deduction for or on account of any 
present or future taxes or duties of 
whatever nature unless such 
withholding or deduction is required by 
law. In the event such taxes are imposed 
or levied by way of withholding or 
deduction by or in or for the ac count of 
the Netherlands or the Federal Republic 
of Germany or any political subdivision 
or any authority thereof or therein 
having power to tax, the Issuer will pay 
such additional amounts 
(the "Additional Amounts ") as shall be 
necessary in order that the  net amounts 
 
- 87 - 
 Beträge (die " Zusätzlichen Beträg e") 
zahlen, die erforderlich sind, damit die 
den Gläubigern zufließenden 
Nettobeträge nach diesem Einbehalt 
oder Abzug jeweils den Beträgen 
entsprechen, die ohne einen solchen 
Einbehalt oder Abzug von den 
Gläubigern  empfangen worden wären; 
die Verpflichtung zur Zahlung solcher 
Zusätzlichen Beträge besteht jedoch 
nicht im Hinblick auf Steuern und 
Abgaben, die:  received by the Holders, after such 
withholding or deduction shall equal the 
respective amounts which would 
otherwise have been receivable in the 
absence of such withholding or 
deduction; except that no such 
Additional Amounts shall be payable  on 
account of any taxes or duties which:  
(a) auf andere Weise als durch Einbehalt 
oder Abzug von zahlbaren Beträgen zu 
entrichten sind; oder   (a) are payable otherwise than by 
withholding or deduction from amounts 
payable; or  
(b) wegen einer gegenwärtigen oder 
früheren persönlichen oder 
geschäftlichen Beziehung des 
Gläubigers zu den Niederlanden oder 
der Bundesrepublik Deutschland zu 
zahlen sind, und nicht allein deshalb, 
weil Zahlungen auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen aus Quellen in 
den Niederla nden oder der 
Bundesrepublik Deutschland stammen 
(oder für Zwecke der Besteuerung so 
behandelt werden) oder dort besichert 
sind; oder   (b) are payable by reason of the Holder 
having, or having had, some personal or 
business connection with the 
Netherlands or the Federal Republic of 
Germany and not merely by reason of 
the fact that payments in respect of the 
Notes are, or for purposes of taxation are 
deemed to be, derived from sources in, 
or are secured in the Netherlands or the 
Federal Republic of Germany; or 
(c) aufgrund einer Richtlinie oder 
Verordnung der Europäischen Union 
betreffend die Besteuerung von 
Zinserträgen oder einer 
zwischenstaatlichen Vereinbarung oder 
eines internationalen Abkommens über 
deren Besteuerung, an der die 
Bundesrepublik Deutschl and oder an 
dem die Europäische Union beteiligt ist, 
oder einer gesetzlichen Vorschrift, die 
diese Richtlinie, diese Verordnung, 
diese zwischenstaatliche Vereinbarung 
oder dieses internationale Abkommen 
umsetzt oder befolgt oder die eingeführt 
wurde, um di eser Richtlinie, dieser 
Verordnung, dieser zwischenstaatlichen 
Vereinbarung oder diesem 
internationalen Abkommen 
nachzukommen, von Zahlungen an eine 
natürliche Person oder eine sonstige 
Einrichtung einzubehalten oder 
abzuziehen sind; oder   (c) are withheld  or deducted from a 
payment to an individual or a residual 
entity pursuant to any European Union 
directive or regulation concerning the 
taxation of interest income, or any 
intergovernmental agreement or 
international agreement on the taxation 
of interest a nd to which the Federal 
Republic of Germany or the European 
Union is a party, or any provision of law 
implementing, or complying with, or 
introduced to conform with, such 
directive, regulation, intergovernmental 
agreement or international agreement; 
or 
(d) aufgrund einer Rechtsänderung zu 
zahlen sind, welche später als 30 Tage 
nach Fälligkeit der betreffenden 
Zahlung von Kapital oder Zinsen oder, 
wenn dies später erfolgt, 
ordnungsgemäßer Bereitstellung aller 
fälligen Beträge und einer  (d) are payable by reason of a change in law 
that becomes effective more than 
30 days after the relevant payment of 
principal or interest becomes due, or, if 
later, is duly provided for and notice 
 
- 88 - 
 diesbezüglichen Bekan ntmachung 
gemäß § 12 wirksam wird; oder  thereof is published in accordance with 
§ 12; or  
(e) von einer  Zahlstelle abgezogen oder 
einbehalten werden, wenn eine andere 
Zahlstelle die Zahlung ohne einen 
solchen Abzug oder Einbehalt hätte 
leisten können; oder   (e) are deducted or withheld by a Paying 
Agent from a payment if the payment 
could have been made by another 
Paying Agent without such deduction or 
withholding; or  
(f) auf Grund des niederländischen 
Quellensteuergesetzes 2021 ( Wet 
bronbelasting 2021 ) einbehalten oder 
abgezogen werden; oder   (f) are deducted or withheld pursuant to the 
Dutch Withholding Tax Act 2021 ( Wet 
bronbelasting 2021 ); or 
(g) jegliche Kombination der Absätze (a) -
(f).  (g) any combinations of items (a) -(f). 
(2) Unbeschadet sonstiger Bestimmungen 
dieser Emissionsbedingungen, ist die 
Emittentin zum Einbehalt oder Abzug 
der Beträge berechtigt, die gemäß 
§§ 1471 bis 1474 des U.S. Internal 
Revenue Code (einschließlich dessen 
Änderungen oder 
Nachfolgevorschriften), gemäß 
zwischenstaatlicher Abkommen, gemäß 
den in einer anderen Rechtsordnung in 
Zusammenhang mit diesen 
Bestimmun gen erlassenen 
Durchführungsvorschriften oder gemäß 
mit dem Internal Revenue Service 
geschlossenen Verträgen (" FATCA 
Quellensteuer ") erforderlich sind. Die 
Emittentin ist nicht verpflichtet, 
zusätzliche Beträge zu zahlen oder 
Gläubiger in Bezug auf FATCA 
Quellensteuer schadlos zu halten, die 
von der Emittentin, einer Zahlstelle oder 
von einem anderen Beteiligten als Folge 
davon, dass eine andere Person als die 
Emittentin oder deren Zahlstelle nicht 
zum Empfang von Zahlungen ohne 
FATCA Quellensteuer berechti gt ist, 
abgezogen oder einbehalten wurden.   (2) Notwithstanding any other provision in 
these Terms and Conditions, the Issuer 
shall be permitted to withhold or deduct 
any amounts required by the rules of 
U.S. Internal Revenue Code § § 1471 
through 1474 (or any amended or 
successor provisions), pursuant to any 
inter-governmental agreement, or 
implementing legislation adopted by 
another jurisdiction in connection with 
these provisions, or pursuant to any 
agreement with the Internal Revenue 
Service (" FATCA With holding "). The 
Issuer will have no obligation to pay 
additional amounts or otherwise 
indemnify a holder for any FATCA 
Withholding deducted or withheld by 
the Issuer, any paying agent or any other 
party as a result of any person other than 
the Issuer or an agent of the Issuer not 
being entitled to receive payments free 
of FATCA Withholding.  
§ 8 
VORLEGUNGSFRIST   § 8 
PRESENTATION PERIOD  
Die in § 801 Absatz 1 Satz 1 BGB bestimmte 
Vorlegungsfrist wird für die 
Schuldverschreibungen auf zehn Jahre verkürzt.   The presentation period provided in § 801 
paragraph 1, sentence 1 BGB (German Civil 
Code) is reduced to ten years for the Notes.  
§ 9 
KÜNDIGUNG   § 9 
EVENTS OF DEFAULT  
(1) Kündigungsgründe . Jeder Gläubiger ist 
berechtigt, seine sämtlichen 
Forderungen aus den 
Schuldverschreibungen durch 
Kündigung gegenüber de r 
Emissionsstelle fällig zu stellen und die  (1) Events of default . Each Holder shall be 
entitled to declare due and payable by 
notice to the Fiscal Agent its entire 
claims arising from the Notes and 
demand immediate redemption thereof 
at the Early Redemption Amount 
 
- 89 - 
 unverzügliche Rückzahlung zu ihrem 
vorzeitigen Rückzahlungsbetrag (wie in 
§ 5 beschrieben), zuzüglich etwaiger bis 
zum Tage der Rüc kzahlung 
aufgelaufener Zinsen zu verlangen, 
falls:  (as described in § 5) together with 
accrued interest (if any) to the date of 
repayment, in the event that:  
(a) vorbehaltlich §  4 Absatz (4), die 
Emittentin auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen Kapital oder 
Zinsen nicht innerhalb von 15 Tagen 
nach dem betreffenden Tag der 
Fälligkeit zahlt; oder   (a) subject to §  4 (4), the Issuer fails to pay 
principal or interest under the Notes 
within 15 days from th e relevant due 
date; or  
(b) die Emittentin die ordnungsgemäße 
Erfüllung einer sonstigen wesentlichen 
Verpflichtung aus den 
Schuldverschreibungen oder die 
Garantin die Erfüllung einer sonstigen 
wesentlichen Verpflichtung aus der 
Garantie unterlässt und die se 
Unterlassung – sofern sie geheilt 
werden kann  – länger als 45 Tage 
andauert, nachdem die Emissionsstelle 
hierüber eine Benachrichtigung von 
einem Gläubiger erhalten hat; oder   (b) the Issuer fails to duly perform any other 
material obligation arising fr om the 
Notes or the Guarantor fails to perform 
any other material obligation arising 
from the Guarantee and such failure – if 
capable of being remedied – continues 
for more than 45 days after the Fiscal 
Agent has received notice thereof from 
a Holder; or  
(c) die Emittentin , die Garantin oder eine 
Wesentliche Tochtergesellschaft ihre 
Zahlungsunfähigkeit bekannt gibt; oder   (c) the Issuer , the Guarantor and any 
Material Subsidiary  announces its 
inability to meet its financial 
obligation s; or 
(d) eine Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit der 
Emittentin oder der Garantin vorzeitig  
zahlbar wird aufgrund einer Nicht - oder 
Schlechterfüllung des dieser  
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit zugrunde  
liegenden Vertrags, oder die Emittentin 
oder die Garantin einer  
Zahlungsve rpflichtung in Höhe oder im  
Gegenwert von mehr als 
EUR  75.000.000 aus  einer 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit der 
Emittentin oder d er Garantin 
einschließlich Garantien oder 
Freistellungsansprüche n, die  für eine 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit Dritter  
gegeben wurde n, nicht innerhalb von 
30 Tagen  nach ihrer Fälligkeit bzw. im 
Falle von Garantien oder 
Freistellungsansprüche n nicht innerhalb 
von 30 Tagen nach Inanspruchnahme 
aus diese n Garantien oder 
Freistellungsansprüche n nachkommt, es 
sei denn die Emittentin  oder die 
Garantin  bestreitet in gutem  Glauben, 
dass diese Zahlungsverpflichtung  
besteht oder fällig ist bzw. diese 
Garantie oder der Freistellungsanspr uch 
berechtigterweise geltend  gemacht 
wird, oder falls eine für solche   (d) any Capital Market Indebtedness of the 
Issuer or the Guarantor becomes 
prematurely  repayable as a result of a 
default in respect of  the terms thereof, or 
the Issuer or the Guarantor fails to fulfil 
any payment obligation in excess of  
EUR  75,000,000 or the equivalent 
thereof  under any Capital Market 
Indebtedness or  under any guarantees 
and indemnities given for  any Capital 
Market Indebt edness of a third party  
within 30  days from its due date or, in 
the case  of guarantees and indemnities, 
within 30  days after the guarantee and 
indemnit y has been  invoked, unless the 
Issuer  or the Guarantor , shall contest in  
good faith that such payment obl igation 
exists  or is due or that such guarantee 
and indemnit y has been validly invoked, 
or if a Security  granted therefor is 
enforced on behalf of or by  the creditors 
entitled thereto ; or 
 
- 90 - 
 Verbindlichkeiten bestellte Sicherheit 
für die Gläubiger oder von den daraus 
berechtigten  Gläubiger in Anspruch 
genommen wird ; oder  
(e) die Emittentin , die Garantin oder eine 
Wesentliche Tochtergesel lschaft in 
Liquidation tritt, es sei denn, dies 
geschieht im Zusammenhang mit einer 
Verschmelzung, Konsolidierung oder 
einer anderen Form des 
Zusammenschlusses mit einer anderen 
Gesellschaft oder im Zusammenhang 
mit einer Umwandlung, und diese 
andere oder neue Gesellschaft 
übernimmt alle Verpflichtungen, die die 
Emittentin oder die Garantin im 
Zusammenhang mit diesen 
Schuldverschreibungen und der 
Garantie eingegangen ist; oder   (e) the Issuer , the Guarantor and any 
Material Subsidiary  enters into 
liquidation except in connection with a 
merger, consolidation or other form of 
combination with another company or in 
connection with a reorganisation and 
such other or new company assumes all 
obligations undertaken by the Issuer or 
the Guarant or under or in connection 
with the Notes and the Guarantee; or   
(f) (i) ein Gericht ein Insolvenzverfahren 
oder ein Vergleichsverfahren zur 
Abwendung der Insolvenz oder des 
Konkurses oder ein vergleichbares 
Verfahren über das Vermögen der 
Emittentin , der Garantin oder eine 
Wesentliche Tochtergesellschaft 
eröffnet, und ein solches Verfahren 
nicht innerhalb von 60 Tagen 
aufgehoben oder ausgesetzt worden ist, 
oder (ii) die Emittentin , die Garantin 
oder eine Wesentliche 
Tochtergesellschaft die Eröffnung eines 
solchen Verfahrens beantragt oder 
einleitet oder (iii) ein Dritter ein 
Insolvenzverfahren gegen die 
Emittentin oder die Garantin beantragt 
und ein solches Verfahren nicht 
innerhalb einer Frist von 60 Tagen 
(es sei denn mangels Masse) 
aufgehoben oder ausges etzt worden ist; 
dieser Absatz gilt nicht für 
ungerechtfertigte und schikanöse 
Verfahren, die unbegründet sind; oder   (f) (i) a court institutes insolvency 
proceedings or composition proceedings 
to avert insolvency or bankruptcy, or 
similar proceedings aga inst the assets of 
the Issuer , the Guarantor and any 
Material Subsidiary  and such 
proceedings have not been discharged or 
stayed within 60 days, or (ii) the Issuer , 
the Guarantor and any Material 
Subsidiary  applies for institution of such 
proceedings in re spect of its assets or 
(iii) a third party applies for insolvency 
proceedings against the Issuer , the 
Guarantor and any Material Subsidiary  
and such proceedings are not discharged 
or stayed within 60 days (unless for a 
lack of assets ( mangels Masse )); this 
provision does not apply to frivolous or 
vexatious proceedings that are without 
merit; or  
(g) die Garantie aus irgendeinem Grund 
ungültig wird oder nicht mehr 
rechtsverbindlich ist.   (g) the Guarantee ceases to be valid and 
legally binding for any re ason 
whatsoever.  
Das Kündigungsrecht erlischt, falls der 
Kündigungsgrund vor Ausübung des Rechts 
geheilt wurde.   The right to declare Notes due shall terminate if 
the situation giving rise to it has been cured 
before the right is exercised.  
(2) Quorum . In den Fällen des 
Absatzes  (1) (b) wird eine Kündigung, 
sofern nicht bei deren Eingang zugleich 
einer der in Absatz (1) (a), (c), (d), (e) , 
(f) oder ( g) bezeichneten 
Kündigungsgründe vorliegt, erst 
wirksam, wenn bei d er Emissionsstelle  (2) Quorum . In the events specified in 
subparagraph (1) (b), any notice 
declaring Not es due shall, unless at the 
time such notice is received any of the 
events specified in subparagraph (1) (a), 
(c), (d), (e) , (f) or (g) entitling Holders 
to declare their Notes due has occurred, 
 
- 91 - 
 Kündigungser klärungen von 
Gläubigern von Schuldverschreibungen 
im Gesamtnennbetrag von mindestens 
25 % des Gesamtnennbetrags der 
ausstehenden Schuldverschreibungen 
eingegangen sind.  become effective only when the Fiscal 
Agent has received such  notices from 
the Holders of at least 25 % in principal 
amount of Notes then outstanding.  
(3) Benachrichtigung . Eine 
Benachrichtigung oder Kündigung 
gemäß Absatz (1) hat in der Weise zu 
erfolgen, dass der Gläubiger de r 
Emissionsstelle eine Erklärung in 
Textform übersendet und dabei durch 
eine Bescheinigung seiner Depotbank 
(wie in § 14 (3) definiert) nachweist, 
dass er im Zeitpunkt der Erklärung 
Inhaber der betreffenden 
Schuldverschreibungen ist; im Falle des 
Absatz (1) (b) sind der Erklärung auch 
Nachweise für die Nichterfüllung 
beizufügen.   (3) Notice . Any notice in accordance with 
subparagraph (1) shall be made by 
means of a declaration in text form to the 
Fiscal Agent together with evidence by 
means of a certificate of the Holder's 
Custodian (as defined in § 14 (3)) that 
such Holder, at the time of such written 
notice, is a holder of  the relevant Notes, 
and in the case of default pursuant to 
subparagraph (1) (b), also together with 
evidence specifying such default.  
§ 10 
ERSETZUNG   § 10 
SUBSTITUTION  
(1) Ersetzung . Die Emittentin ist jederzeit 
berechtigt, sofern sie sich nicht mit einer 
Zahlung von Kapital oder Zinsen auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen in Verzug 
befindet, ohne Zustimmung der 
Gläubiger die Siemens Energy AG oder 
eine andere Gesellschaft, deren 
stimmberechtigte Anteile oder sonstiges 
Eigenkapital direkt oder indirekt zu 10 0 
% von der Siemens Energy AG gehalten 
werden, als Hauptschuldnerin für alle 
Verpflichtungen im Zusammenhang mit 
diesen Schuldverschreibungen 
(die "Nachfolgeschuldnerin ") 
einzusetzen, sofern:   (1) Substitution . The Issuer shall be entitled 
at any time, wit hout the consent of the 
Holders, if no payment of principal of or 
interest on any of the Notes is in default, 
to substitute for the Issuer Siemens 
Energy AG or any other company, 100 
% of the voting shares or other equity 
interests of which are directly or  
indirectly owned by Siemens Energy 
AG, as principal debtor in respect to all 
obligations arising from or in 
connection with the Notes 
(the "Substituted Debtor "), provided 
that: 
(a) die Nachfolgeschuldnerin in der Lage 
ist, sämtliche sich aus oder in dem 
Zusammenhang mit diesen 
Schuldverschreibungen ergebenden 
Zahlungsverpflichtungen, ohne die 
Notwendigkeit eines Einbehalts von 
irgendwelchen Steuern oder Abgaben 
an der Quelle zu erfüllen sowie die 
hierzu erforderlichen Beträge ohne 
Beschränkungen an d ie Emissionsstelle 
übertragen zu können;   (a) the Substituted Debtor is in a position to 
fulfill all payment obligations arising 
from or in connection with the Notes 
without the necessity of any taxes or 
duties being withheld at source and to 
transfer all amounts which are required 
therefor to the Fiscal Agent without any 
restrictions;  
(b) die Nachfolgeschuldnerin alle 
Verpflichtungen der Emittentin aus oder 
im Zusammenhang mit diesen 
Schuldverschreibungen übernimmt;   (b) the Substituted Debtor assumes all  
obligations of the Issuer arising from or 
in connection with the Notes;  
(c) die Nachfolgeschuldnerin sich 
verpflichtet, jedem Gläubiger alle 
Steuern, Gebühren oder Abgaben zu  (c) the Substituted Debtor undertakes to 
reimburse any Holder for such taxes, 
fees or duties which may be imposed 
 
- 92 - 
 erstatten, die ihm in Folge der Ersetzung 
durch die Nachfolgeschuldnerin 
auferl egt werden;  upon it as a consequence of assumption 
of the obligations of the Issuer by the 
Substituted Debtor;  
(d) die Garantin unwiderruflich und 
unbedingt gegenüber den Gläubigern 
die Zahlung aller von der 
Nachfolgeschuldnerin auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen zahlbaren 
Beträge zu Bedingungen garantiert, die 
den Bedingungen der Garantie 
entsprechen; und   (d) the Guarantor irrevocably  and 
unconditionally guarantees in favour of 
each Holder the payment of all sums 
payable by the Substitute Debtor in 
respect of the Notes on terms equivalent 
to the terms of the Guarantee; and  
(e) der Emissionsstelle jeweils eine 
Bestätigung bezüglich der  betroffenen 
Rechtsordnungen von anerkannten 
Rechtsanwälten vorgelegt wird, dass die 
Bestimmungen in den vorstehenden 
Unterabsätzen (a), (b), (c) und (d) erfüllt 
wurden.   (e) there shall have been delivered to the 
Fiscal Agent one opinion for each 
jurisdic tion affected of lawyers of 
recognised standing to the effect that 
subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) above 
have been satisfied.  
(2) Bekanntmachung . Jede Ersetzung ist 
gemäß § 12 bekannt zu machen.   (2) Notice . Notice of any such substitution 
shall be pu blished in accordance with 
§ 12. 
(3) Änderung von Bezugnahmen . Im Fall 
einer Ersetzung gilt jede Bezugnahme in 
diesen Emissionsbedingungen auf die 
Emittentin ab dem Zeitpunkt der 
Ersetzung als Bezugnahme auf die 
Nachfolgeschuldnerin und jede 
Bezugnahme au f das Land, in dem die 
Emittentin ihren Sitz oder Steuersitz hat, 
gilt ab diesem Zeitpunkt als 
Bezugnahme auf das Land, in dem die 
Nachfolgeschuldnerin ihren Sitz oder 
Steuersitz hat.   (3) Change of References . In the event of 
any such substitution, any re ference in 
these Terms and Conditions to the Issuer 
shall from then on be deemed to refer to 
the Substituted Debtor and any 
reference to the country in which the 
Issuer is domiciled or resident for 
taxation purposes shall from then on be 
deemed to refer to  the country of 
domicile or residence for taxation 
purposes of the Substituted Debtor.  
Im Fall einer Ersetzung folgt die 
Nachfolgeschuldnerin der Emittentin als 
Rechtsnachfolgerin nach, ersetzt diese und darf 
alle Rechte und Befugnisse der Emittentin aus 
den Schuldverschreibungen mit der gleichen 
Wirkung geltend machen, als wenn die 
Nachfolgeschuldnerin in diesen 
Emissionsbedingungen als Emittentin genannt 
worden wäre, und die Emittentin (bzw. die 
Gesellschaft, die zuvor die Verpflichtungen der 
Emittentin übernommen hat) wird von ihren 
Verpflichtungen als Schuldnerin aus den 
Schuldverschreibungen befreit.   In the event of any such substitution, the 
Substituted Debtor shall succeed to, and be 
substituted for, and may exercise every right and 
power of, the Issuer under the Notes with the 
same effect as if the Substituted Debtor had been 
named as the Issuer herein, and the Issuer (or any 
corporation which shall have previously assumed 
the obligations of the Issuer) shall be released 
from its liab ility as obligor under the Notes.  
§ 11 
BEGEBUNG WEITERER 
SCHULDVERSCHREIBUNGEN, ANKAUF 
UND ENTWERTUNG   § 11 
FURTHER ISSUES, PURCHASES AND 
CANCELLATION  
(1) Begebung weiterer 
Schuldverschreibungen . Die Emittentin 
ist berechtigt, jederzeit ohne 
Zustimmung der Gläubiger weitere  (1) Further Issues . The Issuer may from 
time to time, without the consent of the 
Holders, issue further Notes having the 
same terms and conditions  as the Notes 
 
- 93 - 
 Schuldverschreibungen mit gleicher 
Ausstattung (gegebenenfalls mit 
Ausnahme des Ausgabetags und/oder 
des Ausgabepreises) in der Weise zu 
begeben, dass sie mit diesen 
Schuldverschreibungen eine 
einheitliche Serie bilden und den 
Gesamtnennbetrag der 
Schuldverschreibungen erhöhen.  (except for, if so applicable, the issu e 
date and/or issue price) so as to form a 
single Series with and increase the 
aggregate principal amount of, the 
Notes.  
(2) Ankauf . Die Emittentin und die Garantin  
sind berechtigt, jederzeit 
Schuldverschreibungen im Markt oder 
anderweitig zu jedem belieb igen Preis 
anzukaufen. Die von der Emittentin 
bzw. der Garantin erworbenen 
Schuldverschreibungen können nach 
Wahl der Emittentin bzw. der Garantin 
von ihr gehalten, weiterverkauft oder bei 
der Emissionsstelle zwecks Entwertung 
eingereicht werden.   (2) Purchases . The Issuer and the 
Guarantor  may at any time purchase 
Notes in the open market or otherwise  
and at any price. Notes purchased by the 
Issuer or the Guarantor, as the case may 
be, may, at the option of the Issuer or the 
Guarantor, as the case may be, be held, 
resold or surrendered to the Fiscal Agent 
for cancellation.  
(3) Entwertung . Sämtliche vollständig 
zurückgezahlten oder gemäß Absatz  (2) 
zwecks Entwertung eingereichten 
Schuldverschreibungen sind 
unverzüglich zu entwerten und können 
nicht wied erbegeben oder 
wiederverkauft werden.   (3) Cancellation . All Notes redeemed in 
full or surrendered  for cancellation 
pursuant to subparagraph (2) above shall 
be cancelled forthwith and may not be 
reissued or resold.  
§ 12 
MITTEILUNGEN   § 12 
NOTICES  
(1) Bekanntmachung . Alle die 
Schuldverschreibungen betreffenden 
Mitteilungen erfolgen durch 
elektronische Mitteilung auf der 
Webseite der Luxemburger Börse 
(www.LuxSE.com). Jede Mitteilung gilt 
am dritten Kalendertag nach dem Tag 
der Veröffentlichung als wirks am 
erfolgt.   (1) Publication. All notices concerning the 
Notes shall be published by way of 
electronic publication on the internet 
website of the Luxembourg Stock 
Exchange (www. LuxSE.com ). Any 
notice so given will be deemed to have 
been validly given on the third calendar 
day following the date of such 
publication.  
(2) Mitteilungen an das Clearing -System . 
Soweit gesetzlich und nach den Regeln 
der Börse, an der die 
Schuldverschreibungen notiert sind, 
zulässig, ist die Emittentin berechtigt, 
eine Veröffent lichung nach Absatz (1) 
durch eine Mitteilung an das Clearing -
System zur Weiterleitung an die 
Gläubiger zu ersetzen. Jede derartige 
Mitteilung gilt am fünften Tag nach dem 
Tag der Mitteilung an das Clearing -
System als den Gläubigern mitgeteilt.   (2) Notifi cation to Clearing System . To the 
extent permitted by law and the rules of 
the relevant stock exchange on which 
the Notes are listed, the Issuer may 
replace any publication referred to in 
paragraph (1) by a notice to the Clearing 
System for onward transmis sion to the 
Holders. Any notice so given will be 
deemed to have been validly given on 
the fifth calendar day following the date 
of such publication.  
 
- 94 - 
 § 13 
ÄNDERUNG DER 
ANLEIHEBEDINGUNGEN, 
GEMEINSAMER VERTRETER   § 13 
AMENDMENT OF THE TERMS AND 
CONDITIONS, H OLDERS' 
REPRESENTATIVE  
(1)  Änderung der Anleihebedingungen . 
Die Gläubiger können entsprechend den 
Bestimmungen des Gesetzes über 
Schuldverschreibungen aus 
Gesamtemissionen 
(Schuldverschreibungsgesetz  – 
"SchVG ") durch einen Beschluss mit 
der in Absatz 2 bestimmten Mehrheit 
über einen im SchVG zugelassenen 
Gegenstand eine Änderung der 
Anleihebedingungen mit der Emittentin 
vereinbaren. Die Mehrheitsbeschlüsse 
der Gläubiger sind für alle Gläubiger 
gleichermaßen ve rbindlich. Ein 
Mehrheitsbeschlu ss der Gläubiger, der 
nicht gleiche Bedingungen für alle 
Gläubiger vorsieht, ist unwirksam, es sei 
denn die benachteiligten Gläubiger 
stimmen ihrer Benachteiligung 
ausdrücklich zu.   (1)  Amendment of the Terms and 
Conditions . In accordance with the Act 
on Debt Securities of 2009 
(Schuldverschreibungsgesetz  – 
"SchVG ") the Holders may agree with 
the Issuer on amendments of the Terms 
and Conditions with regard to matters 
permitted by the SchVG by resolution 
with the majority spec ified in 
subparagraph (2). Majority resolutions 
shall be binding on all Holders. 
Resolutions which do not provide for 
identical conditions for all Holders are 
void, unless Holders who are 
disadvantaged have expressly consented 
to their being treated disadv antageously.  
(2) Mehrheitserfordernisse . Die Gläubiger 
entscheiden mit einer Mehrheit von 
75 % der an der Abstimmung 
teilnehmenden Stimmrechte. 
Beschlüsse, durch welche der 
wesentliche Inhalt der 
Anleihebedingungen nicht geändert 
wird und die keinen Gegen stand der § 5 
Absatz 3, Nr. 1 bis Nr. 8 des SchVG 
betreffen, bedürfen zu ihrer 
Wirksamkeit einer einfachen Mehrheit 
der an der Abstimmung teilnehmenden 
Stimmrechte.   (2)  Majority . Resolutions shall be passed by 
a majority of not less than 75 per cent. 
of the votes cast. Resolutions relating to 
amendments of the Terms and 
Conditions which are not material and 
which do not relate to the matters listed 
in § 5 paragraph 3, Nos. 1 to 8 of the 
SchVG require a simple majority of the 
votes cast.  
(3)  Beschlüsse der Gläubiger . Beschlüsse 
der Gläubiger werden nach Wahl der 
Emittentin im Wege der Abstimmung 
ohne Versammlung nach § 18 SchVG 
oder einer Gläubigerversammlung nach 
§ 9 SchVG gefasst.   (3) Resolution of Holders . Resolutions of 
Holders shall be passed at th e election of 
the Issuer by vote taken without a 
meeting in accordance with § 18 SchVG 
or in a Holder's meeting in accordance 
with § 9 SchVG.  
(4)  Leitung der Abstimmung . Die 
Abstimmung wird von einem von der 
Emittentin beauftragten Notar oder, falls 
der gemeinsame Vertreter zur 
Abstimmung aufgefordert hat, vom 
gemeinsamen Vertreter geleitet.   (4)  Chair of the vote . The vote will be 
chaired by a notary appointed by the 
Issuer or, if the Holders' Representative 
(as defined below) has convened the 
vote,  by the Holders' Representative.  
(5)  Stimmrecht . An Abstimmungen der 
Gläubiger nimmt jeder Gläubiger nach 
Maßgabe des Nennwerts oder des 
rechnerischen Anteils seiner 
Berechtigung an den ausstehenden 
Schuldverschreibungen teil.   (5) Voting rights . Each Ho lder participating 
in any vote shall cast votes in 
accordance with the principal amount or 
the notional share of its entitlement to 
the outstanding Notes.  
 
- 95 - 
 (6)  Gemeinsamer Vertreter . Die Gläubiger 
können durch Mehrheitsbeschlu ss zur 
Wahrnehmung ihrer Rech te einen 
gemeinsamen Vertreter für alle 
Gläubiger bestellen.   (6)  Holders' Representative . The Holders 
may by majority resolution appoint a 
common representative (the " Holders' 
Representative ") to exercise the 
Holders' rights on behalf of each Holder.  
 Der gemeinsame Vertreter hat die 
Aufgaben und Befugnisse, welche ihm 
durch Gesetz oder von den Gläubigern 
durch Mehrheitsbeschlu ss eingeräumt 
wurden. Er hat die Weisungen der 
Gläubiger zu befolgen. Soweit er zur 
Geltendmachung von Rechten der 
Gläubiger ermächtigt ist, sind die 
einzelnen Gläubiger zur selbständigen 
Geltendmachung dieser Rechte nicht 
befugt, es sei denn der 
Mehrheitsbeschlu ss sieht dies 
ausdrücklich vor. Über seine Tätigkeit 
hat der gemeinsame Vertreter den 
Gläubigern zu berichten. Für die 
Abberufung und die sonstigen Rechte 
und Pflichten des gemeinsamen 
Vertreters gelten die Vorschriften des 
SchVG.    The Holders' Representative shall have 
the duties and powers provided by law 
or granted by majority resolution of the 
Holders. The Holders' Representative 
shall comply with the instructions of the 
Holders. To the extent that the Holders' 
Representative has  been authorised to 
assert certain rights of the Holders, the 
Holders shall not be entitled to assert 
such rights themselves, unless explicitly 
provided for in the relevant majority 
resolution. The Holders' Representative 
shall provide reports to the Holde rs on 
its activities. The regulations of the 
SchVG apply with regard to the recall 
and the other rights and obligations of 
the Holders' Representative.  
(7) Änderung der Garantie . Die oben 
aufgeführten auf die 
Schuldverschreibungen anwendbaren 
Bestimmungen  gelten sinngemäß für die 
Garantie.   (7)  Amendment of the Guarantee . 
The provisions set out above applicable 
to the Notes shall apply mutatis  
mutandis to the Guarantee.  
§ 14 
ANWENDBARES RECHT UND 
GERICHTSSTAND   § 14 
GOVERNING LAW AND PLACE OF 
JURISDICTION  
(1) Anwendbares Recht . Form und Inhalt 
der Schuldverschreibungen sowie die 
Rechte und Pflichten der Gläubiger und 
der Emittentin bestimmen sich in jeder 
Hinsicht nach deutschem Recht.   (1) Governing Law . The Notes, both as to 
form and content , and all rights and 
obligations of the Holders and the Issuer 
shall in all respects be governed by 
German law.  
(2) Gerichtsstand . Ausschließlich zuständig 
für sämtliche im Zusammenhang mit 
den Schuldverschreibungen 
entstehenden Klagen oder sonstige 
Verfahren sind die Gerichte in 
München, Deutschland.   (2) Place of Jurisdiction . The courts in 
Munich, Germany shall have exclusive 
jurisdiction for any action or other legal 
proceedings arising out of or in 
connection with the Notes.  
(3) Gerichtliche Geltendmachung . Jeder 
Gläubiger ist berechtigt, in jedem 
Rechtsstreit gegen die Emittentin oder 
die Garantin oder in jedem Rechtsstreit, 
in dem der Gläubiger und die Emittentin 
oder die Garantin Partei sind, seine 
Rechte aus diesen 
Schuldversc hreibungen im eigenen 
Namen auf der folgenden Grundlage zu 
schützen oder geltend zu machen: (i) er 
bringt eine Bescheinigung der 
Depotbank bei, bei der er für die 
Schuldverschreibungen ein 
Wertpapierdepot unterhält, welche  (3) Enforcement . Any Holder may in any 
proceedings against the Issuer, or the 
Guarantor or to which such Holder and 
the Issuer or the Guarantor are parties, 
protect and enforce in his own name his 
rights arising under such Notes on the 
basis of ( i) a statement issued by the 
Custodian with whom such Holder 
maintains a securities account in respect 
of the Notes (a) stating the full name and 
address of the Holder, (b) specifying the 
aggregate principal amount of Notes 
credited to such securities acco unt on 
the date of such statement and 
 
- 96 - 
 (a) den vollständigen Namen und d ie 
vollständige Adresse des Gläubigers 
enthält, (b) den Gesamtnennbetrag der 
Schuldverschreibungen bezeichnet, die 
unter dem Datum der Bestätigung auf 
dem Wertpapierdepot verbucht sind und 
(c) bestätigt, dass die Depotbank 
gegenüber dem Clearing -System ein e 
schriftliche Erklärung abgegeben hat, 
die die vorstehend unter (a) und (b) 
bezeichneten Informationen enthält und 
einen Bestätigungsvermerk des 
Clearing -Systems trägt; und (ii) er legt 
eine Kopie der die betreffenden 
Schuldverschreibungen verbriefenden 
Globalurkunde vor, deren 
Übereinstimmung mit dem Original 
eine vertretungsberechtigte Person des 
Clearing -Systems oder des Verwahrers 
des Clearing -Systems bestätigt hat, ohne 
dass eine Vorlage der Originalbelege 
oder der die Schuldverschreibungen 
verbriefen den Globalurkunde in einem 
solchen Verfahren erforderlich wäre 
oder (iii) auf jede andere Weise, die im 
Lande der Geltendmachung prozessual 
zulässig ist. Für die Zwecke des 
Vorstehenden bezeichnet " Depotbank " 
jede Bank oder ein sonstiges 
anerkanntes Finanz institut, das 
berechtigt ist, das 
Wertpapierverwahrungsgeschäft zu 
betreiben und bei der/dem der Gläubiger 
ein Wertpapierdepot für die 
Schuldverschreibungen unterhält und 
die/das ein Konto beim Clearing -
System unterhält, einschließlich des 
Clearing -Systems  selbst.  (c) confirming that the Custodian has 
given written notice to the Clearing 
System containing the information 
pursuant to (a) and (b) which has been 
confirmed by the Clearing System and 
(ii) a copy of the Note in global  form 
certified as being a true copy by a duly 
authorised officer of the Clearing 
System or a depository of the Clearing 
System, without the need for production 
in such proceedings of the actual records 
or the global note representing the Notes 
or (iii)  any other means of proof 
permitted in legal proceedings in the 
country of enforcement. For purposes of 
the foregoing, " Custodian " means any 
bank or other financial institution of 
recognised standing authorised to 
engage in securities custody business 
with wh ich the Holder maintains a 
securities account in respect of the Notes 
and which maintains an account with the 
Clearing System, including the Clearing 
System itself.  
§ 15 
SPRACHE   § 15 
LANGUAGE  
Diese Emissionsbedingungen sind in deutscher 
Sprache abgefass t. Eine Übersetzung in die 
englische Sprache ist beigefügt. Der deutsche 
Text ist bindend und maßgeblich. Die 
Übersetzung in die englische Sprache ist 
unverbindlich.   These Terms and Conditions are written in the 
German language and provided with an Englis h 
language translation. The German text shall be 
binding and prevailing. The English language 
translation shall be non -binding.  
 
- 97 - 
 GUARANTEE  
GARANTIE  
(verbindliche deutsche Sprachfassung ) GUARANTEE  
(non-binding English translation ) 
der 
SIEMENS ENERGY AG 
(eine Aktiengesellschaft mit eingetragenem Sitz 
in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland ) by 
SIEMENS ENERGY AG 
(a stock corporation incorporated in the Federal 
Republic of Germany ) 
in Bezug auf die EUR  750.000.000  4,000  % 
Grünen Schuldverschrei bungen fällig 
5. April  2026  
(die " 2026  Schuldverschreibungen ") 
ISIN  XS2601458602  in respect of the EUR  750,000,000  4.000  per 
cent.  Green Notes due April 5,  2026  
(the " 2026  Notes ") 
ISIN  XS2601458602  
in Bezug auf die EUR  750.000.000  4,250  % 
Grünen Schuldverschreibungen fällig 
5. April  2029  
(die " 2029  Schuldverschreibungen " und mit 
den 2026  Schuldverschreibungen, die 
"Schuldverschreibungen ") 
ISIN  XS2601459162  in respect of the EUR  750,000,000  4.250  per 
cent.  Green Notes due April 5, 2029  
(the " 2029  Notes " and, together with the  2026 
Notes, the " Notes ") 
ISIN  XS2601459162  
begeben durch  issued by  
SIEMENS ENERGY FINANCE B.V.  
(eine Publikumsgesellschaft mit beschränkter 
Haftung mit Sitz in den Niederlanden ) SIEMENS ENERGY FINANCE B.V.  
(a public company with limited liability 
incorporated in The Netherlands ) 
PRÄAMBEL  PREAMBLE  
(A) Die Schuldverschreibungen unterliegen den 
betreffenden Bedingungen der 
Schuldverschreibungen nach deutschem Recht 
(in der durch die Vorläufige Globalurkunde und 
die Dauerglobalurkunde  jeweils geänderten, 
ergänzten oder modifizierten Fassung die 
"Emissionsbedingungen "). (A) The Notes will be issued in accordance with 
the respective Terms and Conditions of the Not es 
under German law (as amended, supplemented or 
modified by the Temporary Global Note or the 
Permanent Global Note , the " Terms and 
Conditions "). 
(B) Die Siemens Energy AG (die " Garantin ") 
beabsichtigt, mit dieser Garantie die Zahlung von 
Kapital und Zins en sowie von jeglichen sonstigen 
Beträgen zu garantieren, die aufgrund der von der 
Emittentin begebenen Schuldverschreibungen zu 
leisten sind.  (B) Siemens Energy AG (the " Guarantor ") 
wishes to guarantee the due payment of principal 
and interest and any oth er amounts payable in 
respect of the Notes issued by the Issuer.  
HIERMIT WIRD FOLGENDES 
VEREINBART:  IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:  
§ 1 
GARANTIE  § 1 
GUARANTEE  
Die Garantin übernimmt gegenüber BNP 
PARIBAS , Luxembourg Branch 
(die "Emissionsstelle ") zugunsten der  Gläubiger 
der Schuldverschreibungen (nachstehend auch 
"Gläubiger " genannt), die unbedingte und 
unwiderrufliche Garantie für die ordnungsgemäße 
Zahlung von Kapital und Zinsen auf die 
begebenen Schuldverschreibungen sowie von The Guarantor unconditionally and irrevocably 
guarantees to BNP PARIBAS , Luxembourg 
Branch (the " Fiscal Agent ") for the benefit of the 
holders of the Notes (hereinafter also referred to 
as "Holders "), the due and punctual payment  of 
the principal of, and interest on, the Notes, and 
any other amounts which may be expressed to be 
payable under the Notes, as and when the same 
 
- 98 - 
 jeglichen sonstige n Beträgen, die in 
Übereinstimmung mit den Emissionsbedingungen 
auf die Schuldverschreibungen zahlbar sind, und 
zwar zu den in den Emissionsbedingungen 
bestimmten Fälligkeiten. Zahlungen in 
Zusammenhang mit dieser Garantie erfolgen 
ausschließlich gemäß §  4 der 
Emissionsbedingungen.  shall become due, in accordance with the Terms 
and Conditions. Payments in connection with this 
Guarantee sha ll be made solely in accordance 
with §  4 of the Terms and Conditions.  
§ 2 
STATUS  § 2 
STATUS  
Diese Garantie begründet eine unwiderrufliche, 
nicht nachrangige und nicht besicherte 
Verpflichtung der Garantin, die mit allen 
sonstigen nicht nachrangigen und nicht 
besicherten Verpflichtungen der Garantin 
wenigstens im gleichen Rang steht (soweit nicht 
zwingende gesetzliche Bestimmungen 
entgegenstehen).  This Guarantee constitutes an irrevocable, 
unsecured and unsubordinated obligation of the 
Guarantor and ranks pari passu  with all other 
unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the 
Guarantor outstanding from time to time, subject 
to any obligations preferred by law.  
§ 3 
NEGATIVVERPFLICHTUNG  § 3 
NEGATIVE PLEDGE  
(1) Negativverpflichtung.  Die Garantin 
verpflichtet sich, solange die 
Schuldverschreibungen noch ausstehen 
(aber nur bis zu dem Zeitpunkt, an dem 
Kapital und Zinsen aus oder im 
Zusammenhang mit den 
Schuldverschreibungen de r 
Emissionsstelle zur Verfügung gestellt 
worden sind), ihr gegenwärtiges oder 
zukünftiges Vermögen weder ganz noch 
teilweise mit Grundpfandrechten, 
Pfandrechten oder sonstigen dinglichen 
Sicherungsrechten (zusammen, die 
"Sicherheiten ") zur Besicherung 
gegenwärtiger oder zukünft iger 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten (wie 
nachfolgend definiert) der Garantin oder 
eines Dritten zu belasten, und zu 
gewährleisten, dass keine ihrer 
Wesentlichen Tochtergesellschaften 
Sicherheiten zur Besicherung 
gegenwärtiger oder zukünftiger 
Kapitalmarktve rbindlichkeiten bestellt 
oder fortbestehen lässt  es sei denn, dass 
die Schuldverschreibungen gleichzeitig 
und in gleichem Rang anteilig an dieser 
Sicherheit teilnehmen oder den 
Gläubigern eine andere Sicherheit, die 
von einer unabhängigen 
Wirtschaftsprüfun gsgesellschaft als 
gleichwertige Sicherheit anerkannt wird, 
bestellt wird.  (1) Negative Pledge.  The Guarantor 
undertakes so long as any Notes remain 
outstanding, but only up to the time all 
amounts of principal and interest have 
been placed at the disposa l of the Fiscal 
Agent not to create or permit to subsist 
any mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or 
other encumbrance in rem, (together, 
"Security "), and to procure that none of 
its Material Subsidiaries will create or 
permit to subsist, any Security upon any 
or all of its present or future assets as 
security for any present or future Capital 
Market Indebtedness (as defined below) 
of the Guarantor or any third party, 
unless the Notes at the same time share 
pari passu and pro rata in such security 
or unless such other security as may be 
approved by an independent accounting 
firm as being equivalent security has 
been made available to the Holders.  
"Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten " 
bedeutet jede gegenwärtige oder 
zukünftige Verbindlichkeit zur 
Rückzahlung aufgenomme ner "Capital Market Indebtedness " means 
any present or future obligation for the 
payment of borrowed money, which is in 
the form of, or represented or evidenced 
 
- 99 - 
 Geldbeträge, die durch 
Schuldverschreibungen oder sonstige 
Wertpapiere, die an einer Börse oder an 
einem anderen organisierten Markt 
notiert oder gehandelt werden oder 
hinsichtlich derer ein solcher Handel 
beabsichtigt ist, verbrieft, verkörpert oder 
dokumentiert sind mit einer 
ursprünglichen Laufzeit von über einem 
Jahr sowie jede Garantie oder sonstige 
Gewährleistung einer solchen 
Verbindlichkeit.  by, bonds, or other instruments which 
are, or are intended to be, listed, quoted, 
dealt in or traded on any stock exchange 
or in any organised market an original 
maturity of more than one year. and any 
guarantee or other indemnity in respect of 
such obligation.  
"Wesentliche Tochtergesellschaft " 
bezeichnet jede Tochtergesellschaft, die 
ausweislich des jeweils aktuellen, sofern 
rechtlich erforderlich geprüften und 
testierten, Jahresabschlusses der 
betreffenden Tochtergesellschaft und 
ausweislich des letzten geprüften und 
testierten Konzern abschlusses der 
Garantin mindestens 10 % des 
konsolidierten Umsatzes  oder der 
konsolidierten Bi lanzsumme der 
Garantin und ihrer konsolidierten 
Tochtergesellschaften  ausmacht.  "Material Subsidiary " means any 
Subsidiary which according to the most 
recent, to the extent legally required 
audited, financial statements of the 
relevant Subsidiary and the m ost recent 
audited consolidated annual financial 
statements of the Guarantor represents at 
least 10 per cent. of the consolidated 
revenue or the consolidated total assets of 
the Guarantor and its consolidated 
Subsidiaries . 
"Tochtergesellschaft " bezeichnet  jedes 
im Mehrheitsbesitz der Garantin 
stehende Unternehmen oder jedes von 
der Garantin direkt oder indirekt 
abhängige oder kontrollierte 
Unternehmen.  "Subsidiary " means any company which 
is majority -owned by the Guarantor or 
any company which is directly or 
indirectly controlled by or dependent on 
the Guarantor.  
(2) Die Verpflichtung nach §  3 Absatz (1) 
gilt nicht, für  (2) The negative pledge pursuant to §  1(1) 
does not apply to any  
(a) Sicherheiten, die am Begebungstag der 
Schuldverschreibungen bestehen, oder  (a) Security which is in existence at the issue 
date of the Notes; or  
(b) Sicherheiten, die im Rahmen der 
normalen Geschäftstätigkeit oder kraft 
Gesetzes oder zur Einhaltung des 
anzuwendendem Rechts entstehen oder 
die von einer Behörde verlangt werden, 
einschließlich Pfandrechten und 
Aufrechnungsrechten; oder  (b) Security arising in the ordinary course of 
business or by operation of law or in 
order to comply with applicable laws or 
which is required by an authority,  
including liens and rights of set -off; or  
(c) Sicherheiten, die an Vermögen bestehen, 
das nach dem Begebungstag der 
Schuldverschreibungen erworben 
wurde, die 
(A) Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten 
besichern, die zur Finanzierung des 
Erwerbs eines solchen Verm ögens 
(und/oder damit zusammenhängender 
Kosten und Aufwendungen) 
aufgenommen wurden oder (B) zum 
Zeitpunkt des Erwerbs eines solchen 
Vermögens durch die Emittentin oder 
die Garantin bestehen, sofern diese (c) Security over any asset acquired after the 
issue date of the Notes which (A)  secures 
Capital Market Indebtedness incurred 
for the financing of the acquisition of 
such asset (and/or any related costs and 
expenses), or (B)  exists on the date of the 
acquisition of such asset by the Issuer or 
the Guarantor provided that such 
Security has not been created in 
contemplation of such acquisition and 
the principal amount secured has not 
 
- 100 - 
 Sicherheiten nicht im Hinblick auf einen 
solchen Er werb bestellt wurden und der 
besicherte Gesamtnennbetrag nicht im 
Hinblick auf den Erwerb oder seit dem 
Erwerb erhöht wurde; oder  been increased in contemplation of or 
since the acquisition; or  
(d) Sicherheiten, die zur Finanzierung eines 
bestimmten Projekts oder bestimmter 
Projekte geschaffen wurden, wobei der 
Rückgriff der jewei ligen Gläubiger auf 
das Vermögen und den Cashflow 
beschränkt ist, die diesem Projekt oder 
diesen Projekten zuzuordnen sind; oder  (d) Security created for the financing of a 
specific project or projects where 
recourse of the relevant holders is 
limited to t he assets and the cash flow 
attributable to that project or those 
projects; or  
(e) Sicherheiten, die im Zusammenhang mit 
einer Begebung von Asset Backed 
Securities durch die Emittentin oder 
Garantin oder durch eine 
Zweckgesellschaft, bei der die 
Emittenti n oder die Garantin der 
Originator der zugrunde liegenden 
Vermögenswerte ist, sofern der 
Gesamtbetrag der auf diese Weise 
besicherten Verbindlichkeiten zu keinem 
Zeitpunkt EUR  75.000.000 (oder den 
Gegenwert in einer anderen Währung) 
übersteigt; oder  (e) Security provided in connection with any 
issuance of asset backed securities by the 
Issuer or the Guarantor or by a special 
purpose vehicle where the Issuer or the 
Guarantor is the originator of the 
underlying assets, provided that the 
aggregate amount of li abilities so 
secured may not exceed 
EUR  75,000,000 (or the equivalent in 
any other currency) at any time; or  
(f) andere Sicherheiten zur Besicherung von 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten, die bei 
Umrechnung in Euro zum dann 
geltenden Wechselkurs zusammen mit 
allen anderen 
Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeiten, die 
gemäß diesem §  3 Absatz  (2)(f) 
besichert sind, EUR  150.000.000 nicht 
übersteigen.  (f) other Security securing Capital Market 
Indebtedness which when converted into 
euro at the then current exchange rate 
does not in the aggregate with all other 
Capital Market Indebtedness secured in 
reliance on this §  3(2)(f) exceed 
EUR  150,000,000 (or the equivalent in 
any other currency).  
Jede nach §  3 Absatz  (2) zu leistende 
Sicherheit kann auch zugunsten einer 
Person best ellt werden, die insoweit als 
Treuhänder der Gläubiger handelt.  Any Security which is to be provided 
pursuant to this §  3(2) may, alternatively, 
also be provided to a trustee for the 
Holders.  
§ 4 
STEUERN  § 4 
TAXATION  
Sämtliche von der Garantin unter dieser Garantie 
zu zahlenden Beträge sind ohne Einbehalt oder 
Abzug von oder aufgrund von gegenwärtigen 
oder zukünftigen Steuern oder sonstigen Abgaben 
gleich welcher Art zu leisten, es sei denn, ein 
solcher Einbehalt oder Abzug ist gesetzlich 
vorgeschrieb en. Sofern solche Steuern von oder in 
den Niederlanden oder der Bundesrepublik 
Deutschland oder für deren Rechnung oder von 
oder für Rechnung einer dort zur Steuererhebung 
ermächtigten Gebietskörperschaft oder Behörde 
auferlegt oder erhoben werden, wird di e Garantin 
diejenigen zusätzlichen Beträge 
(die "Zusätzlichen Beträge ") zahlen, die 
erforderlich sind, damit die den Gläubigern All amounts payable by the Gu arantor in respect 
of this Guarantee shall be made without 
withholding or deduction for or on account of any 
present or future taxes or duties of whatever 
nature unless such withholding or deduction is 
required by law. In the event such taxes are 
imposed o r levied by way of withholding or 
deduction by or in or for the account of the 
Netherlands or the Federal Republic of Germany 
or any political subdivision or any authority 
thereof or therein having power to tax, the 
Guarantor will pay such additional amoun ts 
(the "Additional Amounts ") as shall be 
necessary in order that the net amounts received 
by the Holders, after such withholding or 
 
- 101 - 
 zufließenden Nettobeträge nach diesem Einbehalt 
oder Abzug jeweils den Beträgen entsprechen, die 
ohne einen solchen Einbehalt od er Abzug von den 
Gläubigern empfangen worden wären; die 
Verpflichtung zur Zahlung solcher Zusätzlichen 
Beträge besteht jedoch nicht wenn eine der in §  7 
Absatz (1) der Emissionsbedingungen genannten 
Ausnahmen Anwendung findet.  deduction shall equal the respective amounts 
which would otherwise have been receivable in 
the absence of such withholding or deduction; 
except that no such Additional Amounts shall be 
payable in respect of any Notes if any of the 
exemptions set forth in §  7(1) of the Terms and 
Conditions applies  
§ 5 
ERSETZUNG  § 5 
SUBSTITUTION  
Die Verpflichtungen der Garantin aus dieser 
Gara ntie erstrecken sich, ohne dass eine weitere 
Handlung durchgeführt werden oder ein weiterer 
Umstand hinzutreten müsste, auf solche 
Verpflichtungen einer nicht mit der Garantin 
identischen Nachfolgeschuldnerin, die infolge 
einer Schuldnerersetzung gemäß den  
anwendbaren Bestimmungen der 
Emissionsbedingungen der 
Schuldverschreibungen in Bezug auf jedwede 
Schuldverschreibungen entstehen.  The obligations of the Guarantor under this 
Guarantee shall, without any further act or thing 
being required to be done or to  occur, extend to 
the obligations of a Substituted Debtor which is 
not the Guarantor arising in respect of any Notes 
by virtue of a substitution pursuant to the Terms 
and Conditions of the Notes.  
§ 6 
SONSTIGE BESTIMMUNGEN  § 6 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS  
Diese Garantie und alle hierin enthaltenen 
Vereinbarungen sind ein Vertrag zugunsten der 
Gläubiger als begünstigte Dritte gemäß 
§ 328 Absatz  1 BGB und begründen das Recht 
eines jeden Gläubigers, die Erfüllung der hierin 
eingegangenen Verpflichtungen unmitt elbar von 
der Garantin zu fordern und diese 
Verpflichtungen unmittelbar gegenüber der 
Garantin durchzusetzen.  This Guarantee and all undertakings contained 
herein constitute a contract for the benefit of the 
Holders from time to time as third party 
benefic iaries pursuant to §  328 (1) of the German 
Civil Code ( Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch (BGB) ). 
They give rise to the right of each such Holder o 
require performance of the obligations undertaken 
herein directly from the Guarantor, and to enforce 
such obligations d irectly against the Guarantor.  
Jeder Gläubiger kann im Falle der Nichterfüllung 
hinsichtlich aller Zahlungen auf diese 
Schuldverschreibungen aus dieser Garantie zur 
Durchsetzung dieser Garantie unmittelbar gegen 
die Garantin Klage erheben, ohne dass zunäc hst 
ein Verfahren gegen die Emittentin eingeleitet 
werden müsste.  Each Holder has the right in case of the non -
performance of any payments on such Notes 
under the Guarantee in order to enforce the 
Guarantee to file a suit directly against the 
Guarantor wit hout the need to take prior 
proceedings against the Issuer.  
Die hierin verwendeten und nicht anders 
definierten Begriffe haben die ihnen in den 
Emissionsbedingungen zugewiesene Bedeutung.  Terms used in this Guarantee and not otherwise 
defined herein shall  have the meaning attributed 
to them in the Terms and Conditions.  
§ 7 
ANWENDBARES RECHT, 
GERICHTSSTAND UND SPRACHE  § 7 
GOVERNING LAW, PLACE OF 
JURISDICTION AND LANGUAGE  
Diese Garantie unterliegt dem Recht der 
Bundesrepublik Deutschland, unter Ausschluss 
des internationalen Privatrechts.  This Guarantee shall be governed by, and 
construed in accordance with, the laws of 
Germany without regard to its conflict of laws 
rules.  
Ausschließlicher Gerichtsstand für alle 
Rechtsstreitigkeiten gegen die Ga rantin aus oder Exclusive place of jurisdiction for all legal 
proceedings arising out of or in connection with 
 
- 102 - 
 im Zusammenhang mit dieser Garantie ist 
München, Bundesrepublik Deutschland.  this Guarantee against the Guarantor shall be 
Munich, Federal Republ ic of Germany.  
Diese Garantie ist in deutscher Sprache abgefasst 
und in die englische Sprache übersetzt. Die 
deutschsprachige Fassung ist verbindlich und 
allein maßgeblich.  This Guarantee is written in the German language 
and attached hereto is a non -binding English 
translation.  
§ 8 
ROLLE DE R EMISSIONSSTELLE   § 8 
ROLE OF THE FISCAL AGENT  
BNP PARIBAS , Luxembourg Branch, mit der die 
in dieser Garantie enthaltenen Vereinbarungen 
getroffen werden, handelt nicht als Beauftragte, 
Treuhänderin oder in einer ähnlichen Eigenschaft 
für die Gläubiger.  BNP PARIBAS , Luxembourg Branch, which 
agreed to this Guarantee, in its capacity as Fiscal 
Agent does not act in a relationship of agency or 
trust, as fiduciary or in any other similar capacity 
for the Holders.  
Das Original dieser Garantie wird BNP 
PARIBAS , Luxembourg Branch ausgehändigt 
und von dieser verwahrt.  The original version of this Guarantee shall be 
delivered to, and kept by BNP PARIBAS , 
Luxembourg Branch.  
Mit Zahlung sämtlicher gemäß den betreffende n 
Emissionsbedingungen zahlbaren Beträge, auf die 
von der Emittentin begebenen 
Schuldverschreibungen erlischt diese Garantie 
und es können aus oder im Zusammenhang mit 
dieser Garantie keine Ansprüche und/oder Rechte 
geltend gemacht werden.  Upon payment of all amounts payable in 
accordance with the respective Terms and 
Conditions on the Notes issued by the Issuer, this 
Guarantee expires, and no claims and/or rights out 
of or in connection with this Guarantee may be 
asserted.  
BNP PARIBAS , Lux embourg Branch  wird der 
Garantin die Garantieurkunde im Original 
unverzüglich nach Erlöschen dieser Garantie 
zurückgeben.  BNP PARIBAS , Luxembourg Branch  will return 
the original guarantee certificate to the Guarantor 
immediately upon expiry of this Guarant ee. 
Jeder Gläubiger kann in jedem Rechtsstreit gegen 
die Garantin und in jedem Rechtsstreit, in dem er 
und die Garantin Partei sind, seine aus dieser 
Garantie hervorgehenden Rechte auf der 
Grundlage einer von einer 
vertretungsberechtigten Person der BNP 
PARIBAS , Luxembourg Branch, beglaubigten 
Kopie dieser Garantie ohne Vorlage des Originals 
im eigenen Namen wahrnehmen und durchsetzen.  On the basis of a copy of this Guarantee certified 
as being a true copy by a duly authorised officer 
of BNP PARIBAS , Luxem bourg Branch , each 
Holder may protect and enforce in its own name 
its rights arising under this Guarantee in any legal 
proceedings against the Guarantor or to which 
such Holder and the Guarantor are parties, 
without the need for production of this Guarante e 
in such proceedings.  
3. April  2023  April 3,  2023  
Siemens Energy AG  Siemens Energy AG  
Wir akzeptieren die Bestimmungen der 
vorstehenden Garantie ohne Obligo, 
Gewährleistung oder Rückgriff auf uns.  We accept the terms of the above Guarantee 
without recourse, warranty or liability.  
3. April  2023  April 3, 2023  
BNP PARIBAS , Luxembourg Branch  BNP PARIBAS , Luxembourg Branch  
 
 
- 103 - 
 DESCRIPTION OF THE GUARANTOR  
1. General Information  
The Guarantor was established by Blitzstart  Holding AG on July 27, 2016 under the legal name "Blitz 
16-806 GmbH" in the form of a limited liability company ( Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung ) under 
German law and registered in the commercial register of the local court ( Amtsgericht ) of Munich u nder 
HRB 227428. Siemens acquired all shares of the Guarantor on August 9, 2016. Subsequently, the 
Guarantor's legal name was changed to "Kyros 52 GmbH" and its statutory seat was moved to Hanover 
where it was registered in the commercial register of the l ocal court ( Amtsgericht ) of Hanover under HRB 
215360. In preparation of the Spin -Off, the Guarantor's legal form was changed to a stock corporation 
(Aktiengesellschaft ), its seat was moved to Munich and its legal name was changed to "Siemens Energy 
AG". As  of the date of th is Prospectus, the Guarantor is registered in the commercial register of the local 
court ( Amtsgericht ) of Munich under HRB 252581.  
The Guarantor's business address is Otto -Hahn -Ring 6, 81739 Munich, Germany, Tel. +49 (0) 89 78050, 
and its  website is: www.siemens -energy.com. The information on the website does not form part of this 
Prospectus unless that information is incorporated by reference into this Prospectus. The Guarantor's 
fiscal year ends on September 30 of each calendar year. The  Guarantor has been formed for an unlimited 
duration. The Guarantor's Legal Entity Identifier (LEI)  is 5299005CHJZ14D4FDJ62.  
The Guarantor's commercial name is "Siemens Energy". In addition, some of the Guarantor's subsidiaries 
use other commercial names r eflecting other important Group brands, in particular "Siemens Gamesa".  
1.1 Our History  
As Siemens Energy, we continue Siemens' history in the energy business which began over 150 years 
ago. Its technological origins are marked by an innovation with which Wern er von Siemens revolutionized 
electrical engineering in 1866. Building on the work of Michael Faraday, he discovered the 
dynamoelectric principle and designed the predecessor of modern large generators: the dynamo machine. 
After around ten years of develop ment and testing, the dynamo machine was ready for series production 
in 1875. This was the beginning of a new era in the history of electrical engineering. The possibility of 
being able to generate and distribute electrical energy in large quantities in an  economical way 
fundamentally changed the economy. 1866 can therefore rightly be regarded as the actual founding year 
of Siemens Energy. Since then, many technological milestones are part of our heritage.  
On July  9, 2020 at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting a large majority of Siemens AG shareholders 
voted to approve the spin -off of the Gas and Power business from Siemens AG to Siemens Energy AG. 
On September  28, 2020 Siemens Energy AG began trading on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange marking the 
start of  a new era in the Company's history  (ISIN  DE000ENER6Y0 ). 
1.2 Corporate Object  
Pursuant to Section 2 of its Articles of Association, the object of Siemens Energy AG is to manufacture, 
supply, operate, distribute and trade in products, systems, facilities and so lutions and to render 
maintenance, repair and other services, as well as research and development (" R&D "), in the areas of : 
• energy production, transfer, distribution and storage ; 
• oil and gas across all areas of production ; 
• decarbonization, sector coupling,  hydrogen solutions and other renewable and non -renewable 
sources of energy ; and  
• adjacent fields of activity such as electrical engineering, automation, electronics, precision 
mechanics and mechanical engineering.  
The Guarantor can operate in the context of these activities in all information technology fields (including 
electronic data processing and transfer, software, platforms and self -learning systems) and render related 
services. Moreover, the Guarantor, in particular through its consolidated subsidi aries, can operate in the 
financial sector and participate directly or indirectly in enterprises and companies of any type, also in 
 
- 104 - 
 managing its own assets. Finally, the Guarantor may engage in business of any kind and take any and all 
measures related to,  or which seem to be directly or indirectly useful in promoting the above activities.  
The Guarantor may realize its object itself or through consolidated subsidiaries or associated companies 
(including joint ventures). It can confine itself to some of the activities specified in the preceding 
paragraph. The Guarantor can set up associated companies, acquire participating interests and change 
them structurally, bring them under uniform control or may limit itself to managing the participating 
interest, sell participating interests and also conclude enterprise and cooperation agreements of any kind.  
1.3 Group Structure  
The following chart provides a simplified overview of the structure of the Siemens Energy Group and the 
material direct and indirect holdings of Si emens Energy AG. Certain subsidiaries are owned by other 
subsidiaries:  
SE TS SH / SE LC
© Siemens Energy 2020Siemens Energy AG
Germany
Siemens Energy Global 
GmbH & Co. KG
GermanySiemens Energy 
Management GmbH 
Germany
Personal liable
Partner100%100%
100%
1)Status as of February 7, 2023. The remainder are minority shareholdings.
2)Via various shareholders.Other Siemens Energy 
companiesSiemens Energy 
Holding B.V .
NetherlandsSiemens Energy Inc.
USA
Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy Ltd. 
United Kingdom
Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy AS 
Denmark
Other SGRE companies100% Other Siemens Energy 
companiesSiemens Ltd.
India24% Other Siemens Energy 
companies100%2)97.79%1) 100%Limited Partner 
Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy S.A. 
Spain
100%
 
1.4 Independent Auditors  
Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft,  Stuttgart, office Munich,  Arnulfstraße  59, 
80636  Munich (" EY") has audited the German  language co nsolidated  financial statements of the 
Guarantor  as of and for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 , prepared in accordance with 
IFRS  as adopted by the European Union, and the additional requirements of Ge rman commercial law 
pursuant to Section 315e (1) of the German Commercial Code ( Handelsgesetzbuch , "HGB "), as well as 
full IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ( "IASB "), in accordance with 
Section 317 of the HGB  and in compliance with German generally accepted standards of financial 
statement audits and in supplementary compliance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA), and 
has issued in each case a German  language unqualified independent auditor's report ( Bestätigungsverme rk 
des unabhängigen Abschlussprüfers ) thereon . 
EY is a member of the German Chamber of Public Accountants ( Wirtschaftsprüferkammer ), 
Rauchstrasse  26, 10787  Berlin, Germany.  
2. Business  
2.1 Business Overview  
We are a pure play company active along the entire energy technology and service value chain with a 
comprehensive and differentiated products, solutions and services offering. Our broad technology 
portfolio, comprising efficient conventional as well as ren ewable energies, enables us to meet the 
increasing energy demand and to support efforts to reduce GHG  emissions at the same time. We also 
offer digital business and intelligent service models to our customers. Therefore, we consider ourselves 
well position ed to shape the energy transition towards decarbonized energy technologies and promptly 
react to customer needs worldwide through our global footprint.  
 
- 105 - 
 We generated revenue of € 29,005 million in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 (fiscal year ended 
September 30, 2021: € 28,482 million) and € 7,064 million in the three -month period ended December 
31, 2022 (three -month period ended December 31, 2021: € 5,956 million), as well as Profit before Special 
items of € 265 million in the fiscal year ended Sept ember 30, 2022 (fiscal year ended September 30, 2021: 
€ 698 million) and a Profit before Special items of € (282) million in the three -month period ended 
December 31, 2022 (three -month period ended December 31, 2021: € (69) million). The figures for the 
fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, and for the three -month period ended December 31, 2021 have 
been adjusted due to a change in accounting policies regarding derivative financial instruments. Profit 
before Special items was introduced as an Alternative Performance Measure starting from the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2023. Accordingly, Profit before Special items in the fiscal year ended September 
30, 2022 and the three -month period ended December 31, 2021 is presented on a comparable basis  also 
with respect to this change in accounting policies . 
We introduced a new organizational structure of our business operations at the beginning of the fiscal 
year ending September 30,  2023. Until September 30, 2022, our business operations were organized in 
two re portable segments, Gas and Power and SGRE . The former Gas and Power segment was split into 
the three divisions Transmission, Generation and Industrial Applications, and the business unit Other 
Operations. Since October 1, 2022, the Gas and Power segment ha s substantially been divided into three 
business area s: Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry.  For the three -month 
period ended December 31, 2022 Gas Services and Grid Technologies represent reportable segments and 
Transformation o f Industry combines the four operating segments: Sustainable Energy Systems (" SES"), 
Electrification, Automation, Digitalization (" EAD "), Industrial Steam Turbines & Generators (" STG ") 
and Compression (" CP"). SGRE represents a reportable segment. In the fo llowing Gas Services, Grid 
Technologies, Transformation of Industry and SGRE are referred to as "business areas". A new operating 
model was also introduced  with effect from October 1,  2022 . With its implementation, a number of further 
changes were made to the internal organisation in order to reduce the complexity of structures, implement 
leaner hierarchies, shorten decision -making paths, consolidate global corporate functions (such as 
Procurement, Logistics, and IT) and sharpen the focus of research and development. In the fiscal year 
ended September 30, 202 2, we reported research and development (R&D) expenses of €  1,078 million 
(for the fiscal year ended September 30, 202 1: € 1,155 millio n). The aim is to strengthen the responsibility 
of each employee and achieve a closer alignment of business activities with operational excellence. With 
our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry, we have consistently  
positioned our business along three pillars: low - or zero -emission power generation, transport and storage 
of energy, and reduction of GHG  emissions and energy consumption in industrial processes. In addition, 
with SGRE , we also have a leading supplier of  onshore and offshore wind energy in -house, constituting 
the fourth pillar of our business operations.  
In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 , we continued our "Accelerating Impact " program  aimed at 
cost savings  in the former Gas and Power segment , which will run until end of fiscal year  ending 
September  30, 2025. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, SGRE  Group  introduced "Mistral ", a 
program which covers all areas of the business and is aimed at prepar ing SGRE  Group  to meet the 
forecasted high demand in the wind energy industry. It is designed to lead the SGRE business area to 
sustainable and profitable growth.  
Siemens Energy has identified five strategic levers of focus for the Company:  
- New corporate structure and o perating model which came into effect on October 1, 2022  
- Gas Services: Monetize the installed base through service and decarbonization  
- Grid Technolog ies: Leverag e market leadership to benefit from accelerating investments  
- Transformation of Industry: Decarb onize the industrial sector through focus on Hydrogen 
and Electrification, Automation, Digitalization (EAD)  
- SGRE: Focus on executing  the "Mistral"  program  
 
- 106 - 
 2.1.1 Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry  
The three new business area s Gas Servi ces, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry offer a 
wide range of products, systems, solutions and services in the fields of power transmission, central and 
distributed power generation, as well as industrial applications for the oil and gas indu stry and industrial 
process applications. Furthermore, the business area s develop and market new technologies in the field 
of decarbonization.  
• Gas Services bundles all business activities related to gas turbines, large steam turbines, large 
generators and heat pumps, incl. adjacent technologies. The business area 's offering includes 
products, solutions and services for central and distributed power generation. The business is 
centered around the service of the installed fleet of gas and steam turbines. The comprehensive 
service offering covers maintenance services, performance enhancements, operations services, 
digitalization offerings ( e.g., cyber security), customer training and professional consulting.  
• Grid Technologies comprises the former business of th e Transmission division and include s the 
energy storage activities that were previously assigned to the former division Generation. Grid 
Technologies offers a broad portfolio of products, systems, solutions and services geared around 
the key market trends of digitalization, decarbonization, grid stability and electrification. The 
product portfolio comprises the main elements for substations, like high voltage air - and gas -
insulated switchgears, transformers, arresters or related digital products and bushing s. Grid 
Technologies offers its products individually or as part of tailor -made systems and solutions as 
well as services relating to power transmission of high (which includes ultra -, extra - and high -
voltage layers) voltage as part of product bundles or s olutions.  
• Transformation of Industry is primarily focused on reducing energy consumption and GHG 
emissions in industrial processes, and encompasses four independently managed business 
operations:  
• Sustainable Energy Systems includes the former New Energy Bu siness and parts of the 
former Generation division . SES focuses on the industrialization of deep 
decarbonization technologies, and bundles decarbonization activities for focused 
industrial scaling, especially in H2, Power -to-X and photovoltaics activities.  
• Electrification, Automation, Digitalization was previously part of the former Industrial 
Applications division  and focuses on integrated electrification, automation and 
digitalization solutions for driving industrial decarbonization through electrificatio n and 
process optimization. EAD offers integrated systems and solutions across process 
industries ( e.g., oil & gas, chemicals, petrochemicals, fiber) as well as maritime and 
offshore segments.  
• Industrial Steam Turbines & Generators includes parts of the former Generation and 
Industrial Applications divisions , such as industrial steam turbines up to 250  MW and  
industrial generators and provides service offerings for the full STG portfolio. STG 
focuses on new technology fields ( e.g., waste heat recovery appli cations, Compressed 
Air Energy Storage) throughout the entire product lifecycle of industrial steam turbines 
and generators.  
• Compression was formerly part of the division Industrial Applications and supplies turbo 
and reciprocating compressors and associat ed service, as well as compression trains , 
systems and solutions . CP focuses on new technology fields throughout the entire 
product  lifecycle of reciprocating and turbo compressors, such as H2 compressors  and 
CO 2 compressors for Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage  (CCUS) . 
The new business area Gas Services generated revenue of € 9,499 million in the fiscal year ended 
September 30, 2022 (fiscal year ended September 30, 2021: € 9,141 million) and € 2,560 million in the 
three -month period ended December 31, 2022 (three -month period ended December 31, 2021: 
€ 2,037  million), as well as Profit before Special items of € 619 million in the fiscal year ended 
September  30, 2022 (fiscal year ended September 30, 2021: € 575 million) and € 318 million in the three -
month period ended December 31, 2022 (three -month period ended December 31, 2021: € 173 million). 
The new business area Grid Technologies generated revenue of € 6,285 million in the fiscal year ended 
 
- 107 - 
 September 30, 2022 (fiscal year ended Septembe r 30, 2021: € 5,814 million) and € 1,593 million in the 
three -month period ended December 31, 2022 (three -month period ended December 31, 2021: 
€ 1,323  million), as well as Profit before Special items of € 221 million in the fiscal year ended September 
30, 2022 (fiscal year ended September 30, 2021: € 365 million) and € 110 million in the three -month 
period ended December 31, 2022 (three -month period ended December 31, 2021: € 50 million). The new 
business area Transformation of Industry generated revenue o f € 4,080 million in the fiscal year ended 
September 30, 2022 (fiscal year ended September 30, 2021: € 3,889 million) and € 997 million in the 
three -month period ended December 31, 2022 (three -month period ended December 31, 2021: 
€ 849 million), as well a s Profit before Special items of € 45 million in the fiscal year ended September 
30, 2022 (fiscal year ended September 30, 2021: € (76) million) and € 57 million in the three -month 
period ended December 31, 2022 (three -month period ended December 31, 2021:  € (23) million). 
The figures for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021 as well as for the three -
month period ended December 31, 2021 are presented on the basis of the new reporting structure 
consisting of the three business areas  Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry . 
The figures for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 and for the three -month period ended 
December  31, 2021 have been adjusted due to a change in accounting policies regarding derivative 
financial instruments. Profit before Special items was introduced as an Alternative Performance Measure 
starting from the fiscal year ending September 30, 2023. Accordingly, Profit before Special items in the 
fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 and the th ree-month period ended December 31, 2021 is presented 
on a comparable basis  also with respect to this change in accounting policies . 
2.1.2 SGRE  
Our SGRE business area  focuses on the design, development, manufacturing and installation of products, 
as well as the provision of technologically advanced services in the renewable energy sector , with a focus 
on wind turbines for various wind conditions. In addition, the SGRE business area is exploring 
opportunities in adjacent renewable business fields, which in many ca ses are related to the wind turbine 
business. The SGRE business area comprises the businesses Wind Turbines (Onshore and Offshore) as 
well as Operation and Maintenance (Service):   
• Wind Turbines (Onshore and Offshore) – With the Wind Turbines business , the SGRE business 
area designs, develops, manufactures and installs wind turbines for various wind conditions. 
Depending on market requirements, the SGRE business area 's scope of involvement may include 
undertaking a full EPC scope or in some cas es, wind farm development activities. While Onshore 
provides wind turbine design, engineering, manufacturing, and installation solutions for global 
onshore markets mainly focused on geared technology, which can be adapted to regional and 
local needs, Offsh ore provides customer -specific wind turbine equipment design, manufacturing, 
and installation based on direct drive technology for global offshore markets.  
• Operation and Maintenance (Service) – In addition, with its Operation and Maintenance business, 
the SGRE business area  provides services for the operation and maintenance of wind farms 
including a comprehensive and flexible portfolio for the maintenance and optimization of wind 
turbines, providing holistic lifetime care. Complete asset management as well  as technical 
assistance is provided by the business to the SGRE business area' s wind turbines and is also being 
expanded for third party platforms.  
SGRE  S.A.'s shares were delisted on February 1 4, 2023 from all stock markets. Siemens Energy holds 
approxim ately 98% of the shares in SGRE  S.A. 
2.2 Our business areas relating to Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of 
Industry (included in the former Gas and Power segment)  
Our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Indus try cover key parts of 
the energy value chain and serve a broad base of customers with products, solutions and services for the 
energy infrastructure markets. The key trends demand growth, decarbonization, decentralization and 
digitalization are common to the business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of 
Industry, however, each is affected differently by these trends. To address the transformation in our 
markets we are developing new products, solutions and services, in particular hyd rogen -based solutions 
as part of our business area  Transformation of Industry.  
 
- 108 - 
 Our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry have a common 
approach to R&D of, e.g., digital solutions or additive manufacturing, project excellence, manufacturing 
and procurement. This allows all of our business area s to leverage their  strong  market positions, the 
Siemens Energy brand, our global footprint in more than 90 countries and our industry know -how. The 
comprehensive offerings of our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of 
Industry enable us provide  our customers with integrated solutions. Together with our SGRE business 
area, we believe our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry are 
uniquely positioned to deliver complex large projects including  major infrastru cture upgrades for entire 
countries and to serve the widely varying needs of our customers around the globe.  
We believe that our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry taken 
together are also regionally well diversified . 
2.2.1 Gas Services  
We believe that in many regions gas turbines remain an important power generation technology. Gas 
Services' highly reliable, efficient and low emission turbines enable the integration of renewables in the 
grids by providing base load and/or balancing renewable power supply. Additionally, Gas Services' heat 
pumps decarbonize district heating and industrial heat production as another main lever for 
decarbonization.  
Gas Services' portfolio covers gas turbines from  2 MW to 593 MW, large steam turbines (>250MW), 
large generators, instrumentation, controls & digitalization as well as heat pumps (5 -70MW). The offering 
along these technologies includes products, solutions ( e.g., combined cycle power plants) and services  
(e.g., parts & components  and long-term programs). Our customers in clude  utilities, independent power 
producers, municipalities, EPCs and industrial customers, incl uding in the  oil & gas  industry . 
Gas Services cater s to the net zero needs of those custome rs and society by decarbonizing power 
generation and leveraging existing infrastructure. We equip our gas turbines with increased hydrogen/ 
green fuels co -firing capabilities (up to 75 % already today). Furthermore, we offer other ways to reduce 
emissions of gas turbines and power plants by up to 100 %, e.g., through partnering for carbon capture 
solutions.  
2.2.2 Grid Technologies  
The integration of renewables and the trend towards distributed power generation as well as the 
liberalization of energy markets is le ading to the increasing complexity of grid infrastructure. 
Grid Technologies caters to these requirements by providing, what we believe to be an industry -leading 
and innovative portfolio focused on the key market trends: digitalization, decarbonization, gr id stability 
and electrification. In our view, these include advanced  and leading -edge products and systems as well as 
complex solutions, such as high voltage direct current (HVDC ) offshore grid connection . 
Our product offerings are highly customizable and  can help our customers reduce their CO 2-footprints. 
In addition, we support our customers through a worldwide network of production facilities, own sales 
organization, sales partners and service providers to serve the customer needs with a high level of 
technological expertise.  
2.2.3 Transformation of Industry  
Transformation of Industry is primarily focused on reducing energy consumption and GHG emissions in 
industrial processes, supporting industrial customers in the reduction of their carbon footprint as well as 
the shaping of their decarbonization journey. Transformation of Industry operat es in markets in which we 
see significant opportunities . The industrial sector accounts for 30 % of global emissions and roughly 37 
% of global energy consumption. This large  contribution of the industrial sector to global warming is an 
equally large global market for emissions reduction technologies.  
Reducing emissions from industrial sources will require investment in decarbonization solutions offered 
by Transformation of In dustry , including electrification, efficiency improvements, process optimization, 
improvement and redesign, and reduction and utilization of fugitive emissions. We believe that h ydrogen 
and its derivatives will have the potential to become the new paradigm  for fuel, enabling the 
transformation to clean industrial and energy infrastructure. Transformation of Industry already plays a 
key role in this process.  
 
- 109 - 
 We believe Transformation of Industry 's broad portfolio positions us well to serve the  growing industrial 
market, and we expect to benefit from the trends of increasing demand for carbon -optimized energy 
technologies; the shift towards a hydrogen -enabled economy (sector coupling); and the electr ification, 
automation and digitalization of industry through our portfolio of sophisticated products and solutions.  
2.2.4 Project Development and Execution  
Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry develop and execute projects worldwide 
and offer engineering, procurement, execution, project management, project development and finance, as 
well as after -sales services, including training of customer personnel. We not only offer strong 
engineering expertise to develop project s, but also take a h olistic approach with multi -disciplinary teams, 
which have long -term experience in project development, finance, construction and operation of large 
energy projects. Each project is designed to best suit our customers' needs. Our execution strategies range  
from delivering package d solutions to EPCs, partnering with other EPC companies to jointly execute 
project , including  full turnkey delivery of a project. Successful project management requires strong risk 
management capabilities. A worldwide network of bu siness hubs, along with the specialist departments, 
support and advise our customers and partners on all aspects of our projects.  
Drawing on our access to banks and investors, our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and 
Transformation of Industr y are able to support our customers in finding financing solutions for their 
projects with us. In select cases, we also facilitate equity investments for our customers' projects. Securing 
the appropriate funding is crucial in the development of energy infr astructure. We have access to a global 
banking and financial institutions network which also includes export credit agencies. In addition, part of 
our strategy is to engage in early stage development of power projects and to bring such projects to 
financia l close with investment partners, potentially including own investment by Siemens Energy.  
2.2.5 Manufacturing  
Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry strive to improve their productivity with 
innovative production processes and production plants, such as the use of additive manufacturing methods 
or the automation of manufacturing processes. To be close to our customers worldwide, our business 
areas Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry have established a global 
manu facturing network  that operates according to high quality and EHS standards. To increase flexibility, 
a network of certified contract manufacturers is accessed in selected areas of production.  
2.2.6 Sales and Marketing  
2.2.6.1  Sales  
Gas Services, Grid Technologies and T ransformation of Industry are present in every important energy 
market  through subsidiaries, regional sales hubs and offices and local business partners. To ensure 
customer proximity, our sales operations are organized along the energy value chain with reg ional sales 
hubs in North America, Latin America, Europe, Africa, Middle East, Asia, Australia and China. These 
hubs manage front -end sales and most of the scope carried out directly by the factory, including execution, 
logistics, project management, and o ffer consolidation.  
To serve our diverse customer base, our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and 
Transformation of Industry employ various sales channels, depending on what is most appropriate for 
each part of the energy value chain. These sa les channels include direct -end customer/operators, 
developer/ Independent Power Producers (IPPs) , key account management, through and/or with EPC 
companies, and business partner -reseller businesses. For each sales channel, we pursue a distinct strategy 
that includes the set -up of sales (local front -end sales in countries and expert sales for respective 
technology), targets, and strategies for pricing, marketing, communications, customer support, and 
training. In addition, global, regional and local customer s are served by professional key account 
management teams, which support cross -channels and regional sales opportunities. We also support 
governments to assess future demands and develop programs to shape their energy infrastructure.  
2.2.6.2  Marketing and Customer  Relations  
The marketing and sales operations of our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and 
Transformation of Industry are organized on a global and regional level. This organizational structure 
enables the regions to develop new and strengthen  existing customer relationships to acquire new orders 
 
- 110 - 
 and grow our business. Our marketing activities play an important role to support business development 
and sales activities and serve as input for product development as well as R&D. Marketing efforts focus 
on the marketing of our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry 
as part of Siemens Energy. Our communications activities focus on building brand equity and thus form 
the basis on which marketing can support sales  activities (events, brand positioning, advertisements, white 
papers, media relations, thought leadership and social media). With selected projects, we spotlight our 
portfolio together with globally recognized energy trade fairs and events.  
The major task of our marketing activities is to guide customers in finding the application, product or 
solution they need. Therefore, a major part of our marketing activities focus on consulting with our 
customers in all sales channels drawing on our extensive portfolio  of products, solutions and services. 
Depending on the situation, we offer specific project development and project support ( e.g., project 
development activities, financing, joint pilot projects, customer education and training) as well as 
consulting, incl uding energy studies, feasibility and grid studies, and technical advisories. To help 
customers find the right product from our portfolio, we provide specific online consulting tools. We also 
offer rapid response services to provide support and assistance from experts, answering technical 
application questions remotely through remote control centers or via on -site assistance.  
2.2.7 Procurement  
The procurement function of Siemens Energy is managed globally.  Our procurement activities are 
organized by material fields within commodity management and based on defined strategies. The country -
specific aspects and local procurement activities are covered by the respective regional procurement 
organizations that report to the head of procurement and to the re spective business head.  
The procurement function of our business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of 
Industry is an integrated part of the business area s and strives to provide essential and sustainable value 
contribution for the business area s, namely in the fields of productivity, quality, availability and 
innovation. Consequently, our organization is decentralized to ensure proximity to our businesses. The 
cross -business activities of our commodity management are bundled at the hi ghest effective 
organizational level. Additionally, a joint pooling agreement (" JPA") has been agreed with Siemens 
Group for selected commodities for direct and indirect material  and services . The main categories of 
direct materials include large steel fab rications, cables, measuring instrumentation and a variety of raw 
materials such as copper or steel. Indirect materials and services  include logistics, travel, temporary labor, 
factory and office supplies as well as IT to realize synergy effects.  
Of the to tal purchasing volume managed by our procurement function (in the fiscal year end ed 
September  30, 2022: approximately € 12.6 billion excluding SGRE  Group ), approximately 66 % related 
to direct materials incorporated into our products and solutions and 34 %  to indirect materials. The 
purchasing volume is split into business specific, direct material pooling, and indirect pooling. In the 
fiscal year end ed September  30, 2022, approximately 26 % of the purchasing volume would have been 
incurred in connection wi th the JPA.  
Our manufacturing facilities and sales organizations are located around the world. The purchasing volume 
is distributed accordingly. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, the main purchasing countries, 
by volume, were the United States a nd Germany (representing approximately 44 % of the purchasing 
volume). Approximately 3 2 % of the purchasing volume was spent in emerging markets, such as Eastern 
Europe, China and India. Respective sourcing decisions are based on a transparent total cost b ase to ensure 
all relevant aspects, e.g., lead time, quality and logistical efforts are covered to achieve the best cost 
position based on an end -to-end cost approach. Our procurement strategy strives for the best technology 
in the market which is reflecte d in the innovation power of our suppliers being involved in certain product 
development projects. Similarly, we are continuously working with our suppliers to generate material -
related productivity improvements.  
The procurement function of our business ar eas Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of 
Industry operates on the basis of a supplier management framework. The function aims to secure an 
optimal supplier portfolio via an established strategic method and process and follows a stringent s ourcing 
risk methodology. It strives for the highest practical level of supplier localization in order to follow the 
"local for local" principle. We regularly evaluate our key suppliers and agree with them on improvement 
measures to deliver quality, availa bility and performance/productivity. The procurement function has 
developed a risk management approach to mitigate identified supplier or other significant risks, including 
 
- 111 - 
 risks resulting from single -source or dominant suppliers as well as financial risks . A key imperative for 
collaborating with our global supply base is their acceptance and adherence to our compliance standards 
and the respective ethical behavior which is set out  in the code of conduct for suppliers.  
2.2.8 Information Technology and Cybersecurity  
IT is an essential part of the operations of the business area s Gas Services, Grid Technologies and 
Transformation of Industry. The effective use of IT enables us to generate sustainable added value in the 
context of productivity increases an d process optimization, to drive digitalization and to implement and 
use new and innovative digital and data -driven business models. We regularly monitor and update our IT 
systems and processes to ensure reliability, business continuity and performance whi ch is essential to 
maintain our operations. In that regard, we continuously strengthen and scale company -wide strategic 
platforms such as SAP, Salesforce, Teamcenter and the Microsoft suite running on standardized 
infrastructure components or in the cloud.  In addition, we use various specialized IT solutions to provide 
distinct capabilities such as in product design and engineering, logistics, manufacturing and outage 
management. Our IT organization offers regional support, business embedded IT teams and aims to 
ensure a company -wide and cost -efficient provision of IT services. Its global value centers cover 
infrastructure, application and digital platforms of all central IT systems. We have the necessary 
competence to maintain and operate our IT systems and  to further develop their functionality in -house or 
with external business partners. We will invest in the further simplification and modernization of our IT 
systems and invest in the rationalization and standardization of our infrastructure. This includes  the 
adoption of secure, scalable and flexible state -of-the-art and mainly cloud -based IT Infrastructure 
services, in addition to core data centers in Europe, the United States and China.  
Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of Industry handl e significant volumes of sensitive 
business -related data, including detailed information about customers, employees, partners and suppliers. 
In connection with  our separation from Siemens, we established a cybersecurity function (the " CYS "), 
which  aims to  ensure a coherent and effective management of cybersecurity threats and coordinates 
adequate countermeasures. The CYS is led by the Chief Cybersecurity Officer who regularly updates the 
Executive Board on cybersecurity risks and CYS activities. The CYS con sists of national and international 
teams. The core tasks of the CYS include facilitating cybersecurity risk management, supervising the 
cybersecurity activities as well as coordinating and implementing our company -wide cybersecurity 
projects. In addition,  the CYS provides several supporting measures to increase awareness and knowledge 
of cybersecurity related topics and defines our cybersecurity principles, policies and minimum standards 
in cooperation with certain businesses such as IT which may implement  and operate specific security 
controls adapted to their requirements. In the area of protecting our information assets and managing 
cyberattacks, CYS closely cooperates with other functions such as data protection and governance risk & 
compliance.  
2.3 SGRE  business area  
Our SGRE business area  is a leading global supplier of wind power solutions to customers all over the 
world. With more than  40 years of experience in the wind power business, the SGRE business area  
designs, develops, manufactures, sells, instal ls and maintains both onshore and offshore wind turbines. 
The SGRE business area  offers, in its own assessment, one of the broadest product portfolios in the 
industry as well as industry -leading service solutions, helping to make clean energy more affordab le and 
reliable.  
The activities of our SGRE business area  are organized in two businesses: (i) Wind Turbines, which 
consists of the business units Onshore Wind Power and Offshore Wind Power (also referred to as 
"Onshore " and " Offshore ", respectively), and (ii) Operation and Maintenance (Service). Additionally, 
the SGRE business area  explores opportunities in adjacent renewable business fields.  
The SGRE business area 's portfolio creates value by reducing the Levelized Cost of Energy (" LCoE "), 
contributing to  long-term returns for customers and to the development of the industry. The SGRE wind 
turbine fleet amounts to more than 129 GW of installed capacity with the potential to avoid approximately 
327 megatons  of CO 2 annually , while the SGRE business area 's fleet under maintenance amounts to 
approximately 83 GW, in each case as of December 31, 2022.  
The SGRE business area generated revenue of € 9,814 million in the fiscal year ended September 30,  2022 
(fiscal year ended September 30, 2021: € 10,198 million) a nd € 2,008 million in the three -month period 
 
- 112 - 
 ended December 31, 2022 (three -month period ended December 31, 2021: € 1,829 million), as well as 
Profit before Special items of € (576) million in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 (fiscal year 
ended Sep tember 30, 2021: € (84) million) and € (759) million in the three -month period ended December 
31, 2022 (three -month period ended December 31, 2021: € (309) million). Profit before Special items was 
introduced as an Alternative Performance Measure starting from the fiscal year ending 
September  30, 2023. Accordingly, Profit before Special items in the fiscal year s ended September 30, 
2022 and September 30, 2021 as well as for the three -month period ended December 31, 2021 is presented 
on a comparable basis.  
2.3.1 Products and Services  
Our SGRE business area  develops and manufactures wind turbines which are suitable for a broad range 
of wind speeds (low, medium and high wind) and a full spectrum of weather conditions, and which are 
capable of fulfilling specific loca l requirements. Every wind generation location presents specific 
challenges, which require the choice of the most appropriate product. To meet the specific needs of its 
customers, the SGRE business area  offers versatile solutions for onshore and offshore p ower plants, and 
also offers wind farm development activities.  
2.3.2 Customers  
Our SGRE business area 's customers are mainly energy companies as follows:  
• Large utilities – companies that own projects to sell power to their distribution network to reach 
the final  demand of energy ; 
• Independent Power Producers – companies that own projects to sell power to an off -taker, i.e.,  an 
entity which contracts, via Power Purchase Agreements ( PPAs), to purchase power generated by 
producers for a defined time period at a defined price to achieve a financial return ; 
• Project Developers – companies that develop a project to sell it to a future owner for building 
and operation ; and  
• Others – financial investors, oil & gas players, companies that need to consume green energy to 
meet their environmental targets. As a result of energy transition trends, other players beyond 
traditional customers such as utilities or independent power producers have gained significant 
relevance.  
Our SGRE business area  serves as a key supplier for ei ghteen global accounts. Some examples of such 
accounts are Iberdrola, ENEL, Ørsted and Equinor.  
As customary, the SGRE business area  typically grants warranties to its customers in connection with 
repair and replacement obligations in case of component def ects or functional errors, with a warranty 
period of generally between two and five years. For wind turbine generators warranties exist with respect 
to specific performance criteria such as noise, the power curve, or turbine availability. Some service 
contracts include full -scope warranties for up to 30 years, which cover not only availability, but also 
components, including replacement costs.  
2.3.3 Operations  
The SGRE business area  operates based on more than 40 years of experience with a flexible business 
mode l through two principal business es: Wind Turbines (with the business units Onshore and Offshore), 
which covers the design, development, manufacturing and installation of wind turbines, and Operation 
and Maintenance. In a few regions, the SGRE business area  is also engaged in project development.  
The SGRE business area  is present in more than 90 countries around the world, and its turbines are 
installed in more than 70 countries. It operates more than 15 manufacturing plants in over 10 countries 
and has approximately 50 sales offices (as of September 30, 2022).  
 
- 113 - 
 2.3.4 Sustainability, Environmental  and Social Responsibility  
The SGRE business area  has designed its "Sustainability Vision 2040" with a view to build on existing 
achievements and to achieve further goa ls of sustainability and thereby contribute to climate justice. The 
sustainability strategy of the SGRE business area  is aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals of 
the United Nations (" UN"). The Sustainability Vision 2040 focuses not just on ambitio us targets, but also 
on the actions needed to deliver on those targets. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (" SDGs ") set 
by the UN were adopted in 2015 as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development which set out 
a 15-year plan to achieve these go als. The SGRE business area  is dedicated to driving the UN's 2030 
Agenda and contributing to reaching the Sustainable Development Goals targets. In addition, we remain 
committed to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, meaning that the SGRE business area  
aims to contin uously work on issues connected to human rights and maintain responsible labor, 
environmental and anti -corruption practices.  
The Sustainability Vision 2040 includes various goals and measures. For example, SGRE Group achieved 
carbon neutrality in 2019 and has its climate targets verified by the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi). 
As a next step, the SGRE business area  aims to become carbon positive by 2040. Furthermore, the 
SGRE  business area  has observed that many of its suppliers are aiming to reduce their impact on the 
environment and put in place long -term sustainable practices. As a next step , the SGRE business area  will 
encourage positive changes across the value chain and hence ha s a comprehensive framework integrating 
its suppliers sustainability  performance into our supplier selection and development processes. 
In 2021,  SGRE  Group  developed the world's first recyclable wind turbine blade, known as the Recyclable 
Blade, for commercial use offshore. The Recyclable Blade is also the first step towar ds the goal of 
delivering a fully recyclable turbine by 2040, ensuring that all materials in the turbine can be recycled. 
The SGRE business area  has set itself the goal to develop innovative and efficient technology to power 
the green transition. The SGRE business area  also aims to be a socially responsible employer and to 
embed ethical behavior across its business activities and value chain. Against this background, the SGRE 
business area  promotes and maintains an ethical, transparent, diverse, inclusive, and safe work 
environment in which employees' best interests are protected. The SGRE business area  has also 
committed to increase female representation in the workforce and senior management to 30 % by 2040.  
The SGRE business area  aims to operate as an env ironmentally sustainable and responsible business to 
better serve all its stakeholders, from investors to customers and communities. To date, SGRE  Group  has 
achieved various successes in this context, including:  
• Carbon neutrality since 2019;  
• Roll-out of an  ESG risk management framework covering approximately 19,000 tier -1 suppliers;  
• Installed capacity of 127 GW globally thereby avoiding approximately 327 megatons  CO₂ 
annually ; 
• More than 100 different nationalities employed worldwide;  and 
• Operations 100 % powered by renewable energy sources.  
SGRE  Group  was the first wind turbine manufacturer to obtain an ESG Evaluation from S&P Global, 
achieving an excellent score of 83 out of a 100 in 2022 (84 in 2021). The company obtained #1 and #2 
ranki ng in the industry from FTSE Russell, ISS ESG, and Vigeo Eiris, and is included in the Industry Top 
Rated list with a 97th percentile from Sustainalytics. SGRE  Group  achieved its highest ever score 
(84/100) in the 2022 S&P Global Corporate Sustainability A ssessment, an improvement of fourteen 
points in the last five years, placing in the 99th percentile and ranking #3 out of 286 companies included 
in the sector.  
The SGRE business area  also uses several regulatory and voluntary instruments to achieve a posit ive net 
balance in relation to biodiversity and the environment. These include company policies and procedure, 
full compliance with permits granted by environmental and conservation authorities in each region (which 
set out requirements to ensure the local  environment's protection), setting environmental and control plans 
and implementing management systems (the majority of which have been certified according to the ISO 
14001 standard to prevent and control environmental risks), and complying with regulatio ns on 
conducting environmental impact studies (which include analysis and prevention mechanisms with 
 
- 114 - 
 different alternatives and lay down corrective measures to avoid, mitigate or offset any possible damage 
to biodiversity and the environment).  
For the firs t time, SGRE  Group  reported on the shares of Taxonomy -eligible economic activities in 
revenue, capital expenditure (CapEx), and operating expenditure (OpEx), in compliance with the 
EU Taxonomy Regulation, a key component of the European Commission's action  plan to redirect capital 
flows towards a more sustainable economy. The activities of SGRE  Group  make a substantial contribution 
to the first objective of Regulation (EU) 2020/852: climate change mitigation. In fiscal year ended 
September 30, 2022 , SGRE  Group reports 99. 3 % of its revenue, 93.4 % of total CapEx additions and 
89.1 % of the OpEx to be taxonomy eligible. Therefore, activities reported by SGRE  Group  are enabling 
activities that allow our customers to reduce their emissions.  
2.3.5 Sales and Marketing  
Our SGRE business area markets its products through a global sales force with local offices to ensure 
customer proximity. The sales force is responsible for identifying sales opportunities and their 
management, technical support, order processing and day -to-day contact with customers. Marketing is 
organized to cover the businesses Wind Turbines (Onshore and Offshore) as well as Operation and 
Maintenance (Service). All functions must follow the official corporate design standards available and 
published by t he branding team. The "Siemens Energy" or "Siemens Gamesa" brands  may not be co -
branded or dual -branded. Approvals with either brand management team are needed before publication.  
2.3.6 Procurement  
Our SGRE business area  operates with a large supplier and contractor base  with the aim of diversifying 
supply chain risks by working with m ultiple suppliers and reducing sourcing volumes from single 
suppliers. It  is leveraging partnerships with selected key suppliers to further  enhance its technology and 
innovation capabilities and its technology position in the market.  Our SGRE business area  has a supplier 
relationship policy in place to manage and control procurement activities. The policy aims at ensuring the 
impartiality, tr ansparency and objectivity of the supplier selection processes, and  establishes measures to 
ensure that the suppliers' conduct is ethical. The code of conduct for suppliers and third -party 
intermediaries  established by our SGRE business area  is included in  the legal documentation with each 
supplier, and in procurement tools. Supplier risk management is conducted on a continuous basis, where 
supplier risks are identified based on predefined criteria, assessed and respective measures are defined 
and monitored . 
2.3.7 Information Technology  
The IT function of our SGRE business area provides cybersecurity, IT application and infrastructure 
services (operated by a neutral carrier vendor) to run enterprise replenishment processes, innovate and 
design products while manag ing their life cycle,  enable a holistic view of customers (including aspects 
such as marketing, sales, project execution and services), operate factories, sites and distribution centers, 
and manage the supply chain. Furthermore, the IT function provides IT  application and infrastructure 
services to its corporate functions to support finance, human resources management, security and facility 
management, communications, audit and compliance operations, including allowing for uniform and 
timely reporting. The  IT organization focuses on cybersecurity, digitalization, standardization and 
harmonization of processes and applications. Processes include (i) back -ups; (ii) security of physical 
access to the data processing center and of software access; (iii) controls  relating to the maintenance and 
implementation of computer applications, implementation and migrations plans, risk management via 
separate environments for operation and tests and simulation and other measures.  
2.4 Sustainability  
Siemens Energy aims to take o n a leading role in the sustainability area within the energy industry. As a 
sign of commitment to sustainability, the Chief Executive Officer, Dr. -Ing. Christian Bruch, is also the 
Chief Sustainability Officer of Siemens Energy.  
In close alignment with the SGRE business area 's efforts to further sustainability 
(see "2.3.4  Sustainability, Environmental, Social Responsibility and Governance ") and drawing on its 
comprehensive portfolio, Siemens Energy plans to address the challenges of climate change while 
simultaneously helping societies all over the world to meet their growing energy needs in a reliable and 
 
- 115 - 
 affordable manner. As a global energy company, Siemens Energy has the capabilities, and the 
responsibility, to support the transformation of the energy industry towards a more sustainable future. 
Siemens Energy aims to work with its customers and partners from all around the  world to leverage 
various business opportunities that arise from private and public investments to fulfill its responsibility.  
Siemens Energy supports the Paris Agreement and voluntarily adheres to various codes of ethics or codes 
of practice, including t he "United Nations Global Compact", which is promoted by the UN with the goal 
of furthering commitment and support of the ten principles of human and labor rights, environmental 
protection and the fight against corruption.  
We aim to become the integrated e nergy company of the future – combining a global and local approach 
with solutions along the complete value chain and a focus on sustainability. Siemens Energy is committed 
to the United Nations Sustainable Development Agenda and the SDGs  guide us in our a mbition to become 
a sustainability leader in the industry. To ensure our efforts have the biggest impact, we focus on five 
SDGs:  
• To achieve SDG 5 "Gender Equality", we are striving to create equal opportunities, in the firm 
belief that not just our company, but society as a whole can benefit from inclusion and diversity.  
• By providing reliable, cost -effective and sustainable energy for our customers, we are 
contributing to SDG 7 "Affordable and Clean Energy".  
• We cover SDG 8 "Decent Work and Economic G rowth" with the innovative power of our global 
operations, which stimulate economic development in many countries and creates decent, future -
proof jobs.  
• Meanwhile, our products, services and solutions for decarbonizing energy systems worldwide 
contribute t o SDG 9 "Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure".  
• We enact SDG 13 "Climate Action" by helping our customers reduce GHG  emissions and by 
working toward a net zero goal across the value chain.  
Siemens Energy has a positive effect on most SDGs due to its products and solutions, responsible business 
activity, know -how and thought leadership, and commitment to society.  
Our mission is to support our customers in transitioning to a more sustainable world based on our 
innovative technologies and our ability to tur n ideas into reality. Accordingly, we act in the interest of 
societal development and prosperity – true to the company purpose "We energize society". Siemens 
Energy is convinced that the SDGs offer new business opportunities, in particular by opening doors  to 
work with national and local governments that want to reshape their own development agenda.  
To support this ambition, our Sustainability program is structured along the following topic areas:  
• Decarbonizing our business  – Decarbonization is a key factor  of the Siemens Energy strategy. 
We foster decarbonization along the complete value chain with specific initiatives around climate 
neutrality in our own operations or resource conservation programs and the development of 
products that are further decarboni zing our portfolio as well as services and solutions for 
customers. We aim to be climate neutral in our own operations until 2030 with 100 % green 
electricity consumption until 2023. As one measure to accomplish this objective, we partly 
energize several o f our facilities through the use of photovoltaic (" PV"). We are currently running 
PV systems at some of our sites in Germany, China, Croatia and Sweden and we are in the process 
of installing further systems in Austria, Egypt, China, South -Africa, Saudi -Arabia and India. 
Furthermore, there are discussions and first plannings ongoing in the UK, in France, Mexico, 
Canada, Hungary and USA.  
• Responsible  operations  – We want to shape a new company culture and empower our people as 
well as societies around the glo be. Different topics around responsible operations reflect Siemens 
Energy's determination to take its ambition seriously by implementing respective programs in 
the social (occupational health and safety, people development, inclusion & diversity, human 
rights, employee and societal engagement), environmental (conservation of resources, product 
stewardship) and governance area (compliance). In order to strengthen gender diversity , we 
 
- 116 - 
 further target a 25 % share of females in the top two organizational levels  below the Executive 
Board until 2025 and 30 % until 2030. As one measure to deal with discrimination in the 
workplace, we have launched, among other things, an allyship campaign to encourage and 
support our employees to speak up honestly when mistreated. The campaign aims to change the 
internal culture and transform Siemens Energy into a truly inclusive and diverse company.  
We report annually on our ESG performance in the Sustainability Report (based on the standards of the 
Global Reporting Initiative and cross -referencing to SASB) which includes our TCFD -reporting. 
Furthermore, we are signatories of the UN Global Compact and  report on our progress annually. Our ESG 
performance has been acknowledged by the following ESG Ratings:  
Sustainalytics  #11 of 255 in industry, low risk rating, top performer1 
MSCI  A 2 
ISS ESG  B- prime (1st decile rank in industry)  3 
CDP  B 4 
Ecovadis  Gold (69/100)  5 
1 Sustainalytics ranks compan ies in one  of five ESG risk severity categories ranging from "Negligible" to "Severe" based on a 
company's  exposure to industry specific ESG risks and how well such company is managing those risks, whereas a rating of "Low" 
is the second  lowest category . 
2 MSCI defines the ESG rating as follows: An obligors rating can range from "AAA" to "CCC" whereas an oblig or rated "A, BBB 
or B" is considered a company with a mixed or unexceptional track record of managing the most significant ESG risks and 
opportunities relative to industry peers.  
3 Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. (ISS) defines the ESG rating as fol lows: Companies are rated from "D" - to "A+" whereas 
a rating of "B -" is considered good. Additionally, the term "prime" is given to companies with an ESG performance above the 
sector -specific 'Prime' threshold, which means that they fulfil ambitious absolu te performance requirements.  
4 The CDP ESG rating is defined as follows: Companies are rated from "D" to "A", whereas companies with a score of "B" are 
understood to have addressed the environmental impacts of their business and ensure good environmental m anagement, as well as 
showing some evidence of managing their environmental impact but are not undertaking actions that mark them out as a leader i n 
their field.  
5 The EcoVadis sustainability recognition levels are defined as follows: Companies are ranked according to the percentile rank of 
their EcoVadis scorecard, which ranges from 0 (insufficient) to 100 (outstanding). A company ranked "Gold" requires an overal l 
score of 67 and 74 (2022 criteria) and must be in the top 5% of all companies in all industri es ranked.  
2.5 Ratings  
As of the date of this Prospectus, Siemens Energy AG is rated by S&P Global as follows:  
 Long -Term 
Rating  Outlook  Date of 
Affirmation  
Siemens Energy AG  ................................ .............................   BBB  Negative  March  7, 202 3 
 Short -Term 
Rating  Outlook  Date of 
Affirmation  
Siemens Energy AG  ................................ .............................   A-2 Negative  March  7, 202 3 
 
Further, SGRE  S.A. from time to time receives credit ratings from rating agencies. As of the date of this 
Prospectus, SGRE  S.A. is rated by S&P Global as follows:  
 Long -Term 
Rating  Outlook  Date of 
Affirmation  
SGRE  S.A. ................................ ................................ ...........   BBB  Negative  March  7, 202 3 
 
S&P Global defines the long -term rating as follows: An obligor rated "BBB" has adequate capacity to 
meet its financial commitments. However, adverse economic conditions or changing circumstances are 
more likely to weaken the obligor's capacity to meet its financial commitments. Ratings can be modified 
by the addition of a plus (+) or minus ( -) sign to show relative standin g position within the rating 
categories.  
S&P Global defines the short -term rating as follows: An obligor rated 'A -2' has satisfactory capacity to 
meet its financial commitments. However, it is somewhat more susceptible to the adverse effects of 
changes in circumstances and economic conditions than obligors in the highest rating category.  
A negative outlook means that a rating may be lowered over the intermediate term.  
 
- 117 - 
 A rating reflects the opinion of the particular rating agency at the given reported point in time. Investors 
should obtain additional information and a more detailed understanding of the significance of the credit 
rating provided by the particular rating agency. Rating agencies may change their ratings at any time if 
they are of the opinion tha t specific circumstances require such a change. Investors should not regard 
credit ratings as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities.  
2.6 Legal and Administrative Proceedings  
In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in out -of-court dispute s, litigation and arbitration 
proceedings as well as administrative proceedings in various jurisdictions. Such disputes and proceedings 
may, among others, relate to claims based on alleged breach of contract (in particular claims from or 
against project pa rtners and customers in connection with delays, poor or non -performance), labor 
disputes, antitrust issues, product liability and warranty claims as well as infringement or the validity of 
IP rights. Siemens Energy also conduct s internal investigations regard ing allegations of compliance 
violations which could also lead to such legal proceedings. Neither the Company nor any companies of 
the Siemens Energy Group are currently involved or have during the period of the past twelve m onths 
been involved, respectively, in any governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings (including any such 
proceedings which are pending or threatened of which we are aware), which may have or have had in the 
recent past significant effects on the financ ial position or profitability of the Company and/or the Siemens 
Energy Group . For certain cases , we have set up provisions in an amount we consider appropriate. In 
addition, in some instances regarding product liability claims we are covered by insurance, subject to 
deductibles.  
2.7 Material Contracts  
2.7.1 Siemens Energy Bridge Financing Agreement  and Mandatory Convertible  Notes  
In May 2022, a consolidated subsidiary of Siemens Energy AG with Siemens Energy AG as guarantor 
entered into a credit and guarantee facilit y in an initial amount of € 4.2 billion for the acquisition of the 
outstanding shares in SGRE S.A. with Bank of America Europe Designated Activity Company and 
J.P. Morgan SE as mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners, Bank of America, National Association 
Frankfurt Branch / Filiale Frankfurt am Main and J.P. Morgan SE as underwriters and original lenders 
and Bank of America Europe Designated Activity Company as facility agent (the " Bridge Facility 
Agreement "). With global transfer agreement dated 23 June 20 22 the credit facility was syndicated to 
initially 19 additional lenders (Bank of China Limited Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt am Main/ Frankfurt 
Branch, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria S.A., Banco Santander, S.A., BNP Paribas S.A., BNP Paribas 
Fortis SA/NV,  CaixaBank S.A. Zweigniederlassung Deutschland, Frankfurt am Main, Citibank Europe 
plc, Germany Branch, Commerzbank AG, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank Deutschland, 
Credit Suisse (Deutschland) AG, Deutsche Bank Luxembourg S.A., HSBC Continent al Europe, 
Landesbank Hessen -Thüringen Girozentrale, Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB 
(publ), SMBC Bank EU AG, Société Générale, Standard Chartered Bank AG, UniCredit Bank AG). 
The credit facility has a term of twelve months with two ext ension options of six months each. Following 
the provision of a cash deposit in the amount of € 1,148 million to Spain's National Securities Market 
Commission (" CNMV "), the bridge credit facility was reduced to € 2.9 billion in June 2022. In September 
2022 , Siemens Energy issued subordinated mandatory convertible notes in the aggregate nominal amount 
of € 960 million, the net proceeds of which have been used to partially fund the proposed tender offer. 
Following the provision of an additional cash deposit t o CNMV in the amount of € 960 million, the credit 
facility was reduced to € 1.94 billion in October 2022. On December 21, 2022, a loan in an amount of 
€ 1.6 billion was made under the credit facility.  On March  23, 2023 the outstanding loan was reduced 
with the proceeds of a capital increase (through an accelerated book build offering) to €  350 million . 
The loans bear interest at EURIBOR reference rate plus a margin. The margin will depend on the rating 
of Siemens E nergy AG by Moody's Deutschland GmbH, S&P Global Ratings Europe Limited and/or 
Fitch Deutschland GmbH. Furthermore, a margin -step up every three month has been agreed commencing 
November 2022. In each case, the reference rate will have a floor of zero so t hat the full margin will 
remain payable in the case of a negative reference. In addition, the Bridge Facility Agreement provides 
for fees and indemnifications in favor of the lenders.  
In addition, the Facility Agreement contains customary  covenants, obliga tions and termination rights.  
 
- 118 - 
 The credit line provides each lender with a right to cancel its credit commitment and to request for 
prepayment of loans in the event that (1) Siemens Energy AG becomes a subsidiary of any other company 
or (2) any person or g roup of persons acting together acquires control over Siemens Energy AG 
(Article  3(2) of Council Regulation (EC) 139/2004).  
2.7.2 Siemens Energy Facility Agreement  and Commercial Paper Program  
As of December 31, 2022, Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  and Siem ens Energy Finance B.V., 
two consolidated subsidiaries of Siemens Energy AG with Siemens Energy AG as guarantor maintained 
a line of credit in an amount of € 3 billion  with a term until March 2026 . 
In 2021 , Siemens Energy AG and Siemens Energy Finance B.V. established a € 3 billion commercial 
paper program . Notes issued under the commercial paper program are  guarantee d by Siemens Energy 
AG. 
2.7.3 Certain SGRE Financing Agreements  
Syndicated loan and other loans  
The debt of SGRE  Group  with financial institutions and other obligations as of September 30, 2022 and 
2021 relates, among others, to the multi -currency revolving credit facility and the loan initially signed as 
of May 30, 2018, amounting both to a total of EUR 2,500 million, wh ich has been amended on several 
occasions. The facility includes a loan tranche of EUR 500 million maturing in December 2023 and a 
EUR 2 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2026 (subject to exercise of the existing extension 
options). This financ ing facility may be used for general corporate purposes and to refinance outstanding 
debt.  
In January 2020, SGRE  Group  signed two loans amounting in total to EUR 240 million, mainly with the 
purpose of financing the Senvion business acquisitions, both wit h maturity in January 2023 and of which 
a loan of EUR 175 million has been renewed in July 2022, until January 2024.  The loan in the amount of 
EUR  65 million was repaid in full.  
On November 30, 2020, SGRE  Group  signed a loan of EUR 300 million with the Eur opean Investment 
Bank (" EIB") which is fully drawn. The loan has the purpose of funding SGRE  Group 's research and 
development activities. On February 11, 2021, a second loan with the same purpose as mentioned before 
was signed with the EIB for a total of E UR 50 million, which is fully drawn as of September 30, 2022 
and 2021. Both loans mature on the fifth anniversary of their signature. In addition, as of September 30, 
2022, SGRE  Group  has bilateral credit lines in euros for a total amount of EUR 788 millio n of which 
EUR 220 million were drawn as of December 31 , 2022.  
2.7.4 Agreements with Siemens  
Before the Spin -Off in 2020, the Siemens Group and Siemens Energy entered into various agreements, 
in limited cases also concerning or involving SGRE  Group  as a party, m ainly covering general 
administrative and specific technical matters, services and treasury matters provided by Siemens Group, 
in particular relating to guarantees, sureties, standby letters of credit and other securities, financing, letters 
of credit, hed ges, procurement, supply, IP rights, real estate, general administration, IT and technical 
support, including cybersecurity, research and development as well as the "internet of things". For more 
information on certain of these agreements see Note 27 to the audited consolidated financial statements  
of the Guarantor as of and for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 (incorporated by reference  in this 
Prospectus ) and the risks resulting from the Spin -Off, please see " 7 Risks Related to Our Separation from 
the Siemens Group".  
 
- 119 - 
 3. Shareholder Structure  
Based on notices the Guarantor received pursuant to section 33 et seq. German Securities Trading Act 
(Wertpapierhandelsgesetz ) until March 23, 2023, the following shareholders hold (directly or indirectly) 
as per the day of the notice, three per cent. or more of the Guarantor's outstanding voting rights:  
 Shareholding in %  
Siemens AG  38.07 % 
thereof directly  23.08 % 
thereof indirectly, through SBI GmbH (SBI  SE Shares)  12.02 % 
thereof indirectly, through SPT e.V. (SPT SE Shares)  2.97 %  
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.  4.73 %3 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  6.18 %4 
Blackrock, Inc.  3.45 %5 
It should be noted  that, with the exception of the notice from The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. , the notices 
were received prior to the registration of a capital increase on March  16, 2023, and therefore reflect the 
shareholder 's direct and indirect voting right s before dilution (if  any).  
As of  March 23, 2023 , the capital stock of Siemens Energy AG amounts to €  799,309,712  divided into  
799,309,712 registered shares of no par value with a fully paid up notional value of €  1 per share.  
4. Executive  Board  
Name  Primary Occupation /Role  Other Mandates  
Dr.-Ing. Christian Bruch  Chief Executive Officer  and 
Chief Sustainability Officer  • Member of supervisory board of 
Lenzing AG, Austria  
Karim Ahmed Amin Aly 
Khalil  Member of Executive Board  • – 
Maria Ferraro  Chief Financial Officer  and 
Chief Inclusion & Diversity 
Officer  • Member of the board of directors of 
Capgemini SE, France  
Tim Holt  Member of Executive Board , 
Labor Director 
(Arbeitsdirektor ) • Member of the board of directors of 
Siemens Ltd., India  
Anne -Laure Parrical de 
Chammard  Member of Executive Board  • – 
Vinod Mohan Philip  Member of Executive Board  • – 
 
3 Thereof 0.80 % attached to shares and 3.93 % through instruments.  
4 Thereof 1.20 % attached to shares and 4.98 % through instruments.  
5 Thereof 2.84 % attached to shares and 0.61 % through instruments.  
 
- 120 - 
 5. Supervisory  Board  
Name  Primary Occupation /Role  Other Mandates  
Joe Kaeser  Chairman  • Member of supervisory boards or 
comparable controlling bodies of:  
• Daimler Truck Holding AG 
(Chair)  
• Daimler Truck AG (Chair)  
• Linde plc.  
Robert Kensbock  Member of Supervisory Board , 
First Deputy Chair  • – 
Dr.-Ing. Hubert 
Lienhard  Second Deputy Chair  • Member of supervisory boards or 
comparable controlling bodies of:  
• EnBW Energie Baden -
Württemberg AG  
• Heraeus Holding GmbH  
• Kaefer Management SE  
• SMS GmbH  and SMS group 
GmbH  
• Member of the advisory board 
(Beirat ) of Heitkamp & Thumann 
GmbH & Co. KG  
Günter Augustat  Member of Supervisory Board  • – 
Manfred Bäreis  Member of Supervisory Board  • – 
Manuel Bloemers  Member of Supervisory Board  • Trade union secretary at the board of 
IG Metall – branch office Düsseldorf  
• Member of supervisory boards or 
comparable controlling bodies of:  
• Aluminium Norf GmbH  
• Salzgitter AG  
• Speira GmbH  
Dr. Christine Maria 
Bortenlänger  Member of Supervisory Board  • Managing Director, Deutsches 
Aktieninstitut e.V.  
• Member of supervisory boards or 
comparable controlling bodies of:  
• Covestro AG and Covestro 
Deutschl and AG  
• MTU Aero Engines AG  
• TÜV Süd AG  
Dr. Andrea Fehrmann  Member of Supervisory Board  • Trade union secretary, IG Metall 
Regional Office for Bavaria  
• Member of the supervisory board of:  
• Siemens AG  
Dr. Andreas Feldmüller  Member of Supervisory Board  • – 
 
- 121 - 
 Name  Primary Occupation /Role  Other Mandates  
Nadine Florian  Member of Supervisory Board  • – 
Sigmar Gabriel  Member of Supervisory Board  • Chair, Atlantik -Brücke e.V.  
• Senior advisor, Brunswick Group  
• Advisor, Speech Design SGL GbR  
• Member of supervisory boards or 
comparable controlling bodies of:  
• Deutsche Bank AG  
• Thyssenkrupp Steel Europe AG 
(Chair)  
Horst Hakelberg  Member of Supervisory Board  • – 
Jürgen Kerner  Member of Supervisory Board  • Executive member of the executive 
board and chief treasurer of IG Metall  
• Member of supervisory boards or 
comparable controlling bodies of:  
• MAN Truck & Bus SE (Deputy 
Chair)  
• Premium Aerotec Gmb H (Deputy 
Chair)  
• Siemens AG  
• TRATON SE  
• thyssenkrupp AG (Deputy Chair)  
Hildegard Müller  Member of Supervisory Board  • President, Verband der 
Automobilindustrie e.V.  
• Supervisory board member of 
Vonovia SE  
• Member of the advisory board 
(Beirat ) of IKB Deutsche 
Industriebank AG  
• Member of the advisory board 
(Beirat ) of HSBC 
Trinkaus  & Burkhardt AG  
• Member of the advisory  board 
(Beirat ) of RheinEnergie AG  
• Member of the board of trustees 
(Kuratorium ) of RAG Stiftung  
• Member of the presidential council 
(Präsidialrat ) of DEKRA e.V.  
• Member of the administrative 
advisory board ( Verwaltungsbeirat ) 
of FC Bayern München e.V.  
Laurence Mulliez  Member of Supervisory Board  • Chair of the board of directors, 
Globeleq Ltd.  
• Chair of the board of directors, 
Voltalia SA  
 
- 122 - 
 Name  Primary Occupation /Role  Other Mandates  
• Non-executive director of:  
• Morgan Advanced Materials plc, 
senior independent director  
• Arcus Infrastructure Partners  
• NTR Wind Fund  
Thomas Pfann  Member of Superviso ry Board  • – 
Matthias E. Rebellius  Member of Supervisory Board  • Member of the managing board of 
Siemens AG and CEO Siemens Smart 
Infrastructure  
• Member of supervisory boards or 
comparable controlling bodies of:  
• Arabia Electric Ltd. (Equipment) , 
Saudi Arabia  (Deputy Chair)  
• Siemens Ltd., India  
• Siemens Ltd., Saudi Arabia 
(Deputy Chair)  
• Siemens W.L.L. , Qatar  
• Siemens Schweiz AG , 
Switzerland  (Chair ) 
Prof. Dr. Ralf Thomas  Member of Supervisory Board  • Chief Financial Officer, member of 
the managing  board, Siemens AG  
• Member of the supervisory boards or 
comparable controlling bodies of:  
• Siemens Healthineers AG  
• Siemens Healthcare GmbH  
• Siemens Proprietary Ltd. South 
Africa  
• Chairman of the Exchange 
Experts C ommission of the 
German Ministry of Finance  
• Treasurer and member of the 
board of director s, Max -Planck -
Gesellschaft e.V.  
• Member of the executive 
committee and board of directors, 
Deutsches Aktieninstitut e.V.  
Geisha Jimenez 
Williams  Member of Supervisory Board  • Director at  Artera Services LLC  
• Chair of the Board of Osmose Utility 
Services  
• Member of the Salesforce Global 
Advisory Board for the Americas  
• Principal at the American Energy 
Innovation Council (non -profit 
organisation)  
 
- 123 - 
 Name  Primary Occupation /Role  Other Mandates  
Randy Zwirn  Member of Supervisory Board  • Member of the board , Babcock 
Power  Inc. 
6. Selected Consolidated Financial Information , Alternative Performance Measures and 
Certain Financial Information of Siemens Energy Group  
The following financial information of Siemens Energy Group has been extracted or derived from the 
audited consolidated financial statements of the Guarantor as of and for the fiscal years ended September 
30, 2022 and September  30, 2021 as well as the unau dited earnings release Q1 FY 2023 and consolidated 
financial results of the Guarantor as of and for the first quarter of fiscal year ending September 30, 2023 
ended December  31, 2022 or the Guarantor's accounting records or internal management reporting 
systems.  The audited consolidated financial statements of the Guarantor as of and for the fiscal years 
ended September  30, 2022 and September  30, 2021 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS  as 
adopted by the European Union,  and the additional requirement s of German commercial law pursuant to 
Section 315e (1)  HGB  as well as full IFRS as issued by the IASB.  The unaudited consolidated financial 
results of the Guarantor as of and for the first quarter of fiscal year ending September 30, 2023 ended 
December 31 , 2022 have been prepared in accordance with the applicable recognition, measurement and 
consolidation principles of IFRS applicable to interim financial reporting as issued by the IASB and as 
adopted by the European Union.  
Where financial information in t he following table s is labelled "audited", this means that it has been taken 
from the audited consolidated financial statements  of the Guarantor  for the fiscal year s ended September 
30, 2022  and September 30, 202 1. The label "unaudited" is used in the foll owing table s to indicate 
financial information that has not been taken from the audited consolidated financial statements  but has 
been taken from the unaudited earnings release Q1 FY 2023 and consolidated financial results of the 
Guarantor as of and for th e first quarter of fiscal year ending September 30, 2023 ended 
December  31, 2022 or the Guarantor 's accounting records or internal management reporting systems or 
has been calculated on the basis of financial information from the above -mentioned sources.  
6.1 Selected Consolidated Financial Information of Siemens Energy Group  
Siemens Energy Group  As of and for 
the three -
month period 
ended 
December  31, 
2022  As of 
September 
30, 2022 and 
for the  three -
month period 
ended 
December  31, 
2021  
(adjusted)  a) As of and for 
the fiscal year 
ended 
September  30, 
2022 
(adjusted)  b) As of and for 
the fiscal year 
ended 
September  30, 
2022  As of and for 
the fiscal year 
ended 
September  30, 
2021  
(in million s of €)  (unaudited)  (audited)  
Total Equity attributable to 
shareholders of Siemens Energy  AG 12,059  17,122  17,122  17,189  14,958  
Total Assets  48,013  51,084  51,084  51,173  44,141  
Revenue  7,064  5,956  29,005  28,997  28,482  
Net income (loss) attributable to 
shareholders of Siemens Energy AG (473)  (131)  (467)  (404)  (453)  
a) Due to a change in accounting policies  effective October 1, 2022, comparative figures as of September  30, 2022 and for the three -
month period ended December 31, 2021 have been adjusted in the unaudited consolidated financial results of the Guarantor as of 
and for the first quarter of fiscal year ending September 30, 2023 ended December 31,  2022 . 
b) Due to a change in accountin g policies effective October 1, 2022, unaudited adjusted figures are also presented as of and for the 
fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. 
6.2 Alternative Performance Measures  
The following  two table s contain certain financial measures for the Siemens Energy Group, which are not 
recognized financial measures under IFRS. Siemens Energy Group has provided these Alternative 
Performance Measures because it believes these Alternative Performance Measures provide investors 
with certain additional information to asse ss the operating performance and financial condition of 
Siemens Energy Group's business activities. The  definition of the Alternative Performance Measures may 
vary from the definition of identically named alternative performance measures used by other comp anies. 
 
- 124 - 
 The Alternative Performance Measures for Siemens Energy Group presented by the Guarantor should not 
be considered as an alternative to measures of operating performance or financial condition derived in 
accordance with IFRS. These Alternative Perfor mance Measures have limitations as analytical tools and 
should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for the analysis of the consolidated results or cash 
flows of the Siemens Energy Group as reported under IFRS.  
Siemens Energy Group's Alternativ e Performance Measures are defined as follows:  
• Prior to fiscal year ending September 30, 2023, Siemens Energy Group reported Adjusted 
EBITA margin before Special items. Adjusted EBITA is defined as earnings (Net income  (loss)) 
before financing interest, income taxes, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets 
acquired in business combinations and goodwill impairments . Financing interest excluded from 
Adjusted EBITA is any interest income or expense other than the financial result from 
operations, meaning any interest income or expense other than interest income related to 
receivables from customers, from cash allocate d to the segments and interest expenses on 
payables to suppliers. To calculate the Adjusted EBITA margin (before Special items), Adjusted 
EBITA (before Special items) is divided by revenue.  
• Compared to our previous earnings definition (Adjusted EBITA)  until September 30, 2022 , 
Profit also excludes the financial result from operations. To calculate the Profit margin (before 
Special items), Profit (before Special items) is divided by revenue. Profit is defined as earnings 
(Net income (loss))  before financial result, income taxes, and amortization expenses related to 
intangible assets acquired in business combinations and goodwill impairments.  
• Special items refer to the following topics:  
o Restructuring and integration costs – Restructuring costs mainly refer to personnel measures 
leading to severance charges. They relate to several restructuring programs. Integration costs 
refer only to SGRE  Group .  
o Stand -alone costs – Stand -alone costs relate to the separation from Siemens Group and the 
formation of Siemens Energy as an independent enterprise.  
o Strategic portfolio decisions – This includes major asset impairments and write -downs (as 
well as any subse quent reversals) related to strategic portfolio decisions of Siemens Energy 
Group.  
• EBITDA is defined as earnings (Net income (loss))  before financial result, before income taxes 
and before amortization , depreciation  and impairments . 
• Free cash flow pre tax is defined as cash flows from operating activities before income taxes 
paid, less additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.  
• (Net cash)/ net debt is defined as total debt less total liquidity. Total debt is defined as short -term 
debt and current maturities of long -term debt plus long -term debt plus payables to Siemens 
Group from financing activities. Total liquidity is defined as cash and cash equivalents plus 
receivables from Siemens Group from financing activities. A negative value represents a Net 
cash position.  
Beginning with the fiscal year ending September 30, 2023, the definition  (Net cash)/ net debt 
was changed to Net debt/ (net cash) and payables to and receivables from Siemens Group  from 
financing activities are no longer par t of the Net debt/ (net cash)  definition  due to materiality . 
• Adjusted (Net cash)/ net debt is defined as  (Net cash)/ net debt plus provisions for pensions and 
similar obligations plus credit guarantees . 
Beginning with the fiscal year ending September 30, 2023, the definition  Adjusted (net cash)/ 
net debt was changed to Adjusted net debt/ (net cash) and payables to and receivables from 
Siemens Group from financing activities are no longer part of the Adjusted net debt/ (net cash)  
definition due to materiality . 
 
- 125 - 
 • A performance indicator used to assess our capital structure is the Adjusted (net cash)/ net debt 
to EBITDA ratio. The ratio indicates the approximate number of years that would be needed to 
cover the Adjusted net debt through EBITDA.  
• Beginni ng with the fiscal year ending September 30, 2023, Adjusted (net cash)/ net debt to 
EBITDA was replaced by Adjusted net debt to EBITDA and, therefore, is only shown in case of 
a positive number. Also starting with the fiscal year  ending September 30, 2023,  payables to and 
receivables from Siemens Group from financing activities are no longer part of the Adjusted net 
debt/ (net cash). For purposes of calculating the Adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio for the three -
month period ended December 31, 2022, EBITDA for the last twelve months is used, which is 
calculated as EBITDA for the three -month period ended December 31, 2022, plus EBITDA for 
the fiscal year  ended September 30, 2022 less EBITDA for the three -month period ended 
December 31, 2021.  
Siemens Energy Gr oup's Alternative Performance Measures are shown in the two table s below.  
Siemens Energy Group  As of and for the 
fiscal year ended 
September 30,  2022  As of and for the 
fiscal year ended 
September 30,  2021  
(in million s of € , other than percentages and ratios ) (unaudited , unless otherwise indicated ) 
Adjusted EBITA  1a) (75)*  (12)*  
Adjusted EBITA margin  (0.3)%  (0.0)%  
Adjusted EBITA before Special items  1a) 379 661 
Adjusted EBITA margin before Special items  1.3%  2.3%  
EBITDA  2) 1,144*  1,106*  
Free cash flow pre tax  3) 1,503  1,358  
(Net cash)/ net debt  a), 4a) (2,827)*  (2,515)*  
Adjusted (net cash)/ net debt  4a) (2,180)*  (1,596)*  
Adjusted (net cash)/ net debt to EBITDA ratio  (1.9)* (1.4)* 
*Audited.  
a) As of September 30, 2022, and September 30, 2021, the net cash position is shown with a negative sign.  
Beginning with the fiscal year ending September 30, 2023, some Alternative Performance Measures have 
been replaced or the calculations have been changed. The Alternative Performance Measures  as of 
September 30,  2022, and for the three -month period ended December 31, 2021, in the following table are 
presente d on a comparable basis. In addition, the Alternative Performance Measures for the three -month 
period ended December  31, 2021,  have been adjusted due to a change in accounting policies regarding 
derivative financial instruments.  
Siemens Energy Group  As of and for the 
three -month period 
ended 
December  31, 2022  As of September 30, 
2022 and for the 
three -month period 
ended 
December  31, 2021  
(in million s of € , other than percentages and ratios ) (unaudited)  
Profit 1b) (384)  (64) 
Profit margin  (5.4)%  (1.1)%  
Profit before Special items  1b) (282)  (69) 
Profit margin before Special items  (4.0)%  (1.2)%  
EBITDA  2) (121)  176 
Free cash flow pre tax  3) (58) (69) 
Net debt/ (net cash)  4b) 45 (2,736)  a) 
Adjusted net debt/ (net cash)  4b) 660 (2,089)  
Adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio  0.8 n/a 
a) As of September 30, 2022, the net cash position is shown with a negative sign.  
 
- 126 - 
 1a) The following table shows the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITA and Adjusted EBITA before Special 
items of Siemens Energy  Group  to Net income (loss) of Siemens Energy Group for the fiscal years  ended 
September  30, 2022 and September 30, 2021.  
Siemens Energy Group  For the f iscal 
year ended 
September 
30, 2022  For the f iscal year 
ended September 
30, 2021  
(in million s of €)  (unaudited, unless otherwise 
indicated)  
Net income (loss)  (647)*  (560)*  
+/- Income tax (expenses) benefits  128*  95* 
+ Financial result  a) 29 108 
- Financial result from operations  b) 28 (37) 
+ Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business 
combinations and goodwill impairments  386 382 
Adjusted EBITA  (75)*  (12)*  
+ Special items  453 673 
thereof: Restructuring and integration costs  173 558 
Stand -alone costs  49 116 
Strategic portfolio decisions  232 (1) 
Adjusted EBITA before Special items  379 661 
* Audited.  
a) Financial result represents the sum of (i) interest income, (ii) interest expenses and (iii) other financial income (expenses ), net, 
each as presented in Siemens Energy's  consolidated financial statements.  
b) Financial  result from operations, as subpart of financial result, is included in Adjusted EBITA. Financial result from operations 
refers to interest income related to receivables from customers, from cash allocated to the segments and interest expenses on  
payables to suppliers.  
1b) The following table shows the reconciliation of Profit and Profit before Special items of Siemens 
Energy Group to Net income (loss) of Siemens Energy  Group  for the three -month periods ended 
December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. For the three -month period ended December 31, 2021, the 
figures have been adjusted due to a change in accounting policies regarding derivative financial 
instruments.  
 For the three -
month period 
ended December 
31, 2022  For the three -
month period 
ended December 
31, 2021  
(in millions of €)  (unaudited)  
Net income (loss)  (598)  (246)  
+/- Income tax (expenses) benefits  88 67 
+ Financial result  a) 30 19 
+ Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business 
combinations and goodwill impairments  96 96 
Profit  Siemens Energy  (384)  (64) 
thereof: Gas Services  318 207 
Grid Technologies  98 45 
Transformation of Industry  52 (24) 
SGRE  (823)  (320)  
Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements  (30) 29 
+ Special items  103 (6) 
thereof: Restructuring and integration costs  73 21 
 
- 127 - 
  For the three -
month period 
ended December 
31, 2022  For the three -
month period 
ended December 
31, 2021  
(in millions of €)  (unaudited)  
Stand -alone costs  11 13 
Strategic portfolio decisions  19 (39) 
Profit before Special items Siemens Energy  (282)  (69) 
thereof: Gas Services  318 173 
Grid Technologies  110 50 
Transformation of Industry  57 (23) 
SGRE  (759)  (309)  
Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements  (6) 40 
a) Financial result represents the sum of (i) interest income, (ii) interest expenses and (iii) other financial income (expenses ), net, 
each as presented in Siemens Energy's  unaudited consolidated financial results . 
2) The following table shows the reconciliation of EBITDA of Siemens Energy  Group  to Net income 
(loss) of Siemens Energy Group  for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021 
and for the three -month -periods ended December  31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. For the three -month 
period ended December 31, 2021, the figures have been adjusted due to a change in accounting policies 
regarding derivative financial instruments.  
Siemens Energy Group  For the fiscal year ended 
September 30,  For the three -month period 
ended December 31,  
 2022  2021  2022  2021  
(in millions of €)  (unaudited, unless 
otherwise indicated)  (unaudited)  
Net income (loss)  (647) * (560) * (598)  (246)  
+/- Income tax (expenses) benefits  128*  95* 88 67 
+ Financial result  a) 29 108 30 19 
+ Amortization, d epreciation and 
impairments  1,633*  1,463*  359 335 
EBITDA  1,144 * 1,106 * (121)  176 
*Audited.  
1) Financial result represents the sum of (i) interest income, (ii) interest expenses and (iii) other financial income (expenses ), net, 
each as presented in Siemens Energy 's consolidated financial statements or Siemens Energy 's unaudited consolidated financi al 
results, respectively .  
3) The following table shows the reconciliation of Free Cash Flow pre tax of Siemens Energy  Group  to 
Cash flows from operating activities of Siemens Energy Group for the fiscal years ended September 30, 
2022 and September 30, 2021 and for the three -month -period s ended December 31, 2022 and 
December  31, 2021.  
Siemens Energy Group  For the fiscal year ended 
September 30,  For the three -month period 
ended December 31,  
 2022  2021  2022  2021  
(in millions of €)  (unaudited, unless 
otherwise indicated)  (unaudited)  
Cash flows from operating activities  2,218 * 1,946 * 118 27 
- Additions to intangible assets and 
property, plant and equipment  a) (1,157)*  (987)*  (233)  (174)  
+ Income taxes paid  442*  400*  58 79 
Free cash flow pre tax  1,503  1,358  (58) (69) 
*Audited.  
a) Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are part of cash flows from investing activities.  
 
- 128 - 
 4a) The following table shows the reconciliation of (Net cash)/ net debt and Adjusted (net cash)/ net debt 
of Siemens Energy Group as of Sep tember 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021.  
Siemens Energy Group  As of 
September  30, 2022  As of 
September  30, 2021  
(in millions of €)  (audited, unless otherwise indicated)  
Short -term debt and current maturities of long -term 
debt 749 551 
+ Long -term debt  2,474  2,177  
+ Payables to Siemens Group from financing activities  15 189 
Total debt  3,239  2,917  
Cash and cash equivalents  5,959  5,333  
+ Receivables from Siemens Group from financing 
activities  107 99 
Total liquidity  6,066  5,432  
(Net cash)/ net debt  a) (2,827)  (2,515)  
+ Provisions for pensions and similar obligations  570 830 
+ Credit guarantees  77 89 
Adjusted (net cash)/ net debt  (2,180 ) (1,596 ) 
a) (Net cash)/ net debt represents total debt minus total liquidity. As of September 30, 2022 and September 30,2021, the net cas h 
position is shown with a negative sign.  
 
4b) The following table shows the reconciliation of Net debt/ (net cash) and Adjusted net debt/ (net cash) 
of Siemens Energy  Group  as of December 31, 2022 and as of September 30, 2022.  
Siemens Energy Group  As of 
December  31, 2022  As of 
September  30, 2022  
(in millions of €)  (unaudited)  
Short -term debt and current maturities of long -term 
debt 3,120  749 
+ Long -term debt  2,374  2,474  
Total debt  5,494  3,224 
Cash and cash equivalents  5,449  5,959  
Total liquidity  5,449  5,959  
Net debt/ (net cash)  a) 45 (2,736)  
+ Provisions for pensions and similar obligations  545 570 
+ Credit guarantees  70 77 
Adjusted net debt/ (net cash)  660 (2,089)  
a) Net debt/ (net cash) represents total debt minus total liquidity. As of September 30, 2022 the net cash position is shown wit h a 
negative sign.  
 
- 129 - 
 6.3 Certain Financial Information  
The following tables show certain financial information of Siemens Energy Group neither defined under 
IFRS nor, in Siemens Energy's view, qualifying as Alternative Performance Measures as of and for the 
fiscal years ended September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021 and as of and for the three -month period 
ended December 31, 2022 and as of September 30, 2022 and for the tree -month period ended December 
31, 2021:  
Siemens Energy Group  As of and f or the 
fiscal year ended 
September 30,  2022  As of and for the 
fiscal year ended 
September 30,  2021  
(in million s of € , unless otherwise indicated ) (unaudited, unless otherwise indicated)  
Orders  38,312 * 33,001 * 
Order backlog (in billion s of € ) 97* 84* 
Comparable order growth  11.9%  (0.5)%  
Comparable revenue growth  (2.5)%  6.0%  
Book -to-bill ratio  1.32 1.16 
* Audited.  
Siemens Energy Group  As of and f or the 
three -month period  
ended December 
31, 2022  As of September 30, 
2022 and f or the 
three -month period  
ended December 
31, 2021  
(in million s of € , unless otherwise indicated ) (unaudited)  
Orders  12,727  8,330  
Order backlog (in billion s of € ) 99 97 
Comparable order growth  49.2%  10.1%  
Comparable revenue growth  16.0%  n/a a) 
Book -to-bill ratio  1.80 1.40 
a) No figure available which incorporates the adjustment due to a change in accounting policies regarding derivative instruments . 
The financial information shown above is defined as follows:  
• Orders are determined principally as estimated revenue of accepted purchase orders for which 
enforceable rights and obligations exist as well as subsequent order value changes and 
adjustments, excluding letters of intent. To determine Orders, Siemens Energy considers 
termination rights and customer s' creditworthiness.  
• The Order backlog is calculated by adding the new orders from the current reporting period to 
the order backlog at the end of the previous reporting period and then subtracting the revenue 
realized in the current reporting period. Direct order value adjustmen ts such as modifications, 
currency translations and portfolio effects are also considered.  
• The comparable growth figures show the development of orders/revenue net of currency 
translation effects that result from the external environment outside of our con trol and portfolio 
effects that relate to business activities that are either new to our business or no longer a part of 
our business . 
Currency translation effects are the difference between orders/revenue for the current period 
calculated using the exchan ge rates of the current period and orders/revenue for the current 
period calculated using the exchange rates of the comparative period. To calculate the percentage 
change year -on-year, this absolute difference is divided by orders/revenue for the comparati ve 
period.  
A portfolio effect arises in the case of an acquisition or a disposal and is calculated as the year -
on-year change in orders/revenue resulting specifically from the transaction. To calculate the 
percentage change, the absolute change is divided by orders/revenue for the comparative period.  
 
- 130 - 
 • Siemens Energy determines the Book -to-bill ratio as the ratio of orders to revenue, regarded as 
an economic indicator for overall trends in Siemens Energy 's markets and Siemens Energy 's 
ability to sustainably g enerate business with customers.  
7. Recent Events  
On 15 March 2023, Siemens Energy AG announced the placement of  72,664,519 new shares with 
institutional investors through an accelerated book build offering under the exclusion of shareholders ' 
subscription rights. The new shares were placed at a placement price of €  17.32 per share resulting in 
gross proceeds of €  1.259 billion before deduction of commissions and expenses. Siemens Energy 's share 
capital was increase d by 10 % to € 799,309,712. The new shares w ere issued from authorized capital under 
the exclusion of shareholders ' subscription rights and carry full divi dend rights as from October  1, 2022. 
The net proceeds from the capital increase shall be used to partially refinance the SGRE  Offer . The new 
shares were a dmitted to trading in the sub -segment of the regulated market with additional post -admission 
obligatio ns (Prime Standard) of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and trading  commence d on 
March  23, 2023.  
 
- 131 - 
 DESCRIPTION OF THE ISSUER  
1. General Information  
The legal and commercial name of the Issuer is Siemens Energy Finance B.V. The Issuer is organized as 
a private limited liability company ( besloten vennootschap met beperkte aansprakelijkheid ) incorporated 
on April  3, 2020 under the laws of The Netherlands, having its official seat ( statutaire zetel ) in 
Zoeterwoude and registered with the trade register of t he Chamber of Commerce ( Kamer van 
Koophandel ) under number 77784073.  
The website of the Issuer is www.siemens -energy.com. The information on the website does not form 
part of this Prospectus unless that information is incorporated by reference into this Pr ospectus. 
The telephone number of its registered office is +31715792444.  
Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) of the Issuer is 529900GXHPSHYHBLHP23.  
As of September 30, 2022, the registered subscribed capital of the Issuer amounted to € 30,000,001 which 
are full y paid up.  
2. Corporate Object  
The Issuer acts as a finance company for the benefit of Siemens Energy AG and Siemens Energy Group 
companies. Per the Issuer's most recent articles of association, its corporate objects are:  
• borrowing and lending money, issuing guarantees or other instruments for the benefit of third 
parties and more generally, conducting financial transaction for the benefit of third parties within 
and outside of Siemens Energy Group, as well as issuing and investing in securities and any 
activi ties related thereto, all in the broadest sense;  
• managing, financing, and/or providing services to other enterprises; and  
• acquiring, investing, owning, divesting, encumbering, leasing (in or out) and/or in any other 
manner disposing of real and movable properties, participations and other interests in other 
enterprises;  
as well as any activity in relation to the above or conducive thereto, in the broadest sense.  
3. Business Overview  
The Issuer acts as a finance company that concentrates on financing  activities for the Siemens Energy 
Group and is therefore participating in financing and managing companies, enterprises and other business 
undertakings, withdrawing and lending money and, in general, conducting financial transactions, issuing 
securities a nd doing all such further acts as are incidental or may be conductive thereto in the broadest 
sense.  
4. Shareholders  
The Issuer is a wholly owned (indirect) subsidiary of Siemens Energy AG and has no subsidiaries of its 
own.  
 
- 132 - 
 5. Issuer's Management Board  
Name  Primary Occupation 
/Role  Other Mandates  
Mr. R. Wimmer  CEO  – 
Mr. M.W.D. de Jong  Finance Director  – 
Ms. S.E.A. Davina  Director  – 
 
There are no conflicts of interests between the private interests of the members of the Issuer's Management 
Board and their duties vis-à-vis the Issuer.  
The business address of the members of the Issuer's Management Board is the same as that of the Issuer.  
6. Historical Financial Information  
As the Issuer is (i) a wholly -owned indirect subsidiary of the Guarantor, (ii) is included in the consolidated 
financial statements  of the Guarantor and (iii) the Notes are guaranteed by the Guarantor, no stand -alone 
financial information of the Issuer ha s been included in this Prospectus.  
Non-disclosure of the stand -alone financial information of the Issuer is not likely to mislead investors 
with regards to facts and circumstances that are essential for as sessing the Notes.  
The audited consolidated financial statements of the Guarantor as of and for the fiscal years ended 
September  30, 2021 and September  30, 2022 and the independent auditor's reports thereon and excerpts 
of the unaudited  earnings release Q1  FY 2023 and consolidated financial results of the Guarantor as of 
and for the first quarter of fiscal year ending September 30, 2023 ended December  31, 2022 have been 
incorporated by reference into this Prospectus. Please refer to the section "Documents I ncorporated by 
Reference" below for more information.  
 
- 133 - 
 TAXATION WARNING  
THE TAX LEGISLATION APPLICABLE TO PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS IN THE NOTES AND 
THE ISSUER'S AND THE GUARANTOR'S COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION MAY HAVE AN 
IMPACT ON THE INCOME RECEIVED FROM THE NOTES. PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS OF 
NOTES ARE ADVISED TO CONSULT THEIR OWN TAX ADVISORS AS TO THE TAX 
CONSEQUENCES OF THE PURCHASE, OWNERSHIP AND DISPOSITION OF NOTES 
INCLUDING THE EFFECT OF ANY STATE OR LOCAL TAXES, UNDER THE TAX LAWS 
APPLICABLE IN GERMANY, T HE NETHERLANDS, THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG 
AND EACH COUNTRY OF WHICH THEY ARE RESIDENTS OR OTHERWISE SUBJECT TO 
TAXATION.  
 
- 134 - 
 SUBSCRIPTION AND SALE OF THE NOTES  
Subscription by the Managers  
The Issuer and the Managers  have entered into a subscription agreem ent dated April 3 , 2023 
(the "Subscription Agreement "). Under the Subscription Agreement, the Issuer has agreed to issue and 
sell to the Managers , and the Managers  have agreed, subject to certain customary closing conditions, to 
subscribe and pay for the N otes on April 5, 2023. The Issuer has agreed to pay certain fees to the Managers  
and to reimburse the Managers  for certain expenses incurred in connection with the issue of the Notes.  
The Managers  may, under certain circumstances, terminate the Subscriptio n Agreement. In such event, 
no Notes will be delivered to investors. Furthermore, the Issuer has agreed to indemnify the Managers  
against certain liabilities it may incur in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes.  
From time to time, the Managers  and their affiliates have performed, and may in the future perform, 
investment banking and advisory services for the Issuer for which they have received, or will receive, 
customary fees and expenses.  
Selling Restrictions  
General  
Each Manager has represented, warranted and undertaken to the best of its knowledge and belief that it 
has complied and will comply with all applicable laws and regulations in each country or jurisdiction in 
or from which it purchases, offers, sells or delivers Notes or po ssesses, distributes or publishes this 
Prospectus or any related offering material and will obtain any consent, approval or permission required 
by it for the purchase, offer, sale or delivery by it of Notes under the laws and regulations in force in any 
jurisdiction to which it is subject or in which it makes such purchases, offers, sales or deliveries and 
neither the Issuer nor any other Manager shall have any responsibility therefor.  
Prohibition of Sales to EEA Retail Investors  
Each Manager has represente d and agreed that it has not offered, sold or otherwise made available and 
will not offer, sell or otherwise make available any Notes which are the subject of this  Prospectus to any 
retail investor in the EEA. For the purposes of this provision the express ion " retail investor " means a 
person who is one (or more) of the following:  
(i) a retail client as defined in point (11) of Article 4(1) of MiFID II; or  
(ii) a customer within the meaning of the Insurance Distribution Directive, where that customer 
would not qualif y as a professional client as defined in point (10) of Article 4(1) of MiFID II.  
Prohibition of sales to UK Retail Investors  
Each Manager has represented and agreed that it has not offered, sold or otherwise made available and 
will not offer, sell or other wise make available any Notes which are the subject of this  Prospectus to any 
retail investor in the UK. For the purposes of this provision the expression " retail investor " means a 
person who is one (or more) of the following:  
(i) a retail client, as defined i n point (8) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 2017/565 as it forms 
part of domestic law by virtue of the EUWA; or  
(ii) a customer within the meaning of the provisions of the FSMA and any rules or regulations made 
under the FSMA to implement Directive (EU) 2016 /97, where that customer would not qualify 
as a professional client, as defined in point (8) of Article 2(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 
as it forms part of domestic law by virtue of the EUWA.  
Each Manager has further represented, warranted and agreed t hat: 
(i) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to 
be communicated an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the 
 
- 135 - 
 meaning of Section 21 of FSMA) received by it in connection with the i ssue or sale of the Notes 
in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Issuer; and  
(ii) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to 
anything done by it in relation to the Notes in, from  or otherwise involving the UK.  
United States of America and its Territories  
The Notes and the Guarantee have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act and may 
not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except 
in certain transactions exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Terms used in this 
paragraph have the meanings given to them by Regulation S under the Securities Act (" Regulation S "). 
The Notes are s ubject to U.S. tax law requirements and may not be offered, sold or delivered within the 
United States or its possessions or to a United States person, except in certain transactions permitted by 
the U.S. tax regulations. Terms used in this paragraph have the meanings given to them by the U.S. 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and regulations thereunder.  
Each Manager has represented and agreed that, except as permitted by th e Subscription Agreement, it has 
not offered, sold or delivered and will not offer, sell  or deliver the Notes (i) as part of their distribution at 
any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering and the issue 
date of the Notes, within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons, and it will 
have sent to each dealer to which it sells Notes during the distribution compliance period a confirmation 
or other notice setting forth the restrictions on offers and sales of the Notes within the United States or to, 
or for the accoun t or benefit of, U.S. persons. Terms used in this paragraph have the meanings given to 
them by Regulation S.  
In addition, until 40 days after the commencement of the offering of the Notes, an offer or sale of Notes 
within the United States by a dealer that is not participating in the offering may violate the registration 
requirements of the Securities Act.  
Japan  
Each of the Managers  has represented and agreed that the Notes have not been and will not be registered 
under the Financial Instrument a nd Exchange Act of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended) 
(the "Financial Instrument and Exchange Act "). Each of the Managers  has represented and agreed that 
it will not offer or sell any Notes, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the benefit of , any resident 
of Japan (which term as used herein means any person resident in Japan, including any corporation or 
other entity organized under the laws of Japan), or to others for re -offering or resale, directly or indirectly, 
in Japan or to a resident o f Japan except only pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements 
of, and otherwise in compliance with the Financial Instrument and Exchange Act and any applicable laws, 
regulations and guidelines of Japan.  
 
- 136 - 
 GENERAL INFORMATION  
Authorizations  
The issue of the Notes has been authorized by the management board of the Issuer on March  22, 2023  
and by the shareholders' meeting of the Issuer on March  22, 2023 . The Guarantee in relation to the Notes 
has been authorized by the executive  board of the Gu arantor on November  21, 2022 and March  12, 2023 
and by the supervisory board of the Guarantor on February  6, 2023 and March  22, 2023 . 
Clearing System  
The Notes have been accepted for clearance  and settlement  through Euroclear Bank SA/NV (1 Boulevard 
du Roi  Albert II, 1210  Brussels, Belgium) and Clearstream Banking S.A. (42 Avenue JF Kennedy, 
1855  Luxembourg, Luxembourg).  
Securities Codes  
The 2026  Notes have been assigned ISIN  XS2601458602 , Common Code 260145860  and 
WKN  A3LFSG . 
The 2029  Notes have been assigned ISIN  XS2601459162 , Common Code 260145916  and 
WKN  A3LFSH . 
Form of the Notes  
The Notes are issued in bearer form. The Notes are freely transferable.  
Eurosystem Eligibility  
The Notes are intended to be held in a manner which will allo w Eurosystem eligibility. This simply means 
that the Notes are intended upon issue to be deposited with one of the International Central Securities 
Depositaries (ICSDs) as common safekeeper and does not necessarily mean that the Notes will be 
recognized as  eligible collateral for Eurosystem monetary policy and intra -day credit operations by the 
Eurosystem either upon issue or at any or all times during their life. Such recognition will depend upon 
satisfaction of the Eurosystem eligibility criteria.  
Documen ts Available  
As long as the Notes are outstanding, electronic copies of the following documents will be made available 
on the Issuer's website ( www.siemens -energy.com ): 
(a) the articles of Association of the Issuer;  
(b) the articles of Association of the Guarantor ; 
(c) the Green Bond  Framework; and  
(d) the Second Party Opinion.  
This Prospectus, a copy of any supplement to this Prospectus and the documents incorporated by reference 
in this Prospectus are available on the website of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange (www. LuxSE.c om). 
Yield  
The method to determine the yield is the ICMA method. The ICMA method determines the effective 
interest rate of the Notes taking into account accrued interest on a daily basis. The yield of the 2026  Notes 
is 4.096  per cent. per annum  and the yie ld of the 2029  Notes is 4.351  per cent. per annum . 
Material Change  
Other than the capital increase described under " 7. Recent Events " in the section " Description of the 
Guarantor " above, t here has been no material change in the prospects and the financial position of the 
Guarantor since 31 December  2022 and there has been no material change in the prospects and the 
financial position of  the Issuer since 31 December  2022, the date of the last financial information included 
in this Prospectus.  
 
- 137 - 
 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
The specified pages of the follo wing source documents are incorporated by reference in, and form part 
of, this Prospectus:  
Excerpts of the u naudited earnings release Q1 FY 2023 and consolidated financial results of the 
Guarantor as of and for the first quarter of fiscal year ending September 30, 2023 ended 
December 31, 2022  included in the "Siemens Energy Q1 FY  2023 Earnings Release and Financial 
Results " (English translation)  
Infor mation  relating to :   
Siemens Energy  Page 2 * 
Gas Services and Grid Technologies  Page 3 * 
Transformation of Industry  Page 4 * 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy and Reconciliation 
to Consolidated Financial Statements  Page 5 * 
Consolidated Statements of Income  Page 10*  
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  Page 11*  
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position  Page 12*  
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  Page 13*  
Overview of Segment figures  Page 14*  
Disaggregation of external revenue  Page 17*  
https://assets.siemens -energy.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:04064644 -d391 -41d0 -968e -c3d7d711b3dd/2023 -02-07-siemens -
energy -q1-fy2023 -earnings -release -including -g.pdf  
  
Audited consolidated financial statements of the Guarantor as of and for the fiscal year ended 
September 30, 2022 and independent auditor's report thereon included in the "Siemens Energy 
Annual Report 2022" (English translation)  
Consolidated Statements of Income  Page 65 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  Page 66 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position  Page 67 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  Page 68 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity  Page 69 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Pages 70 to 118 
Independent Auditor's Report1 Pages 121 to 126 
https://assets.siemens -energy.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:2c6beb5b -85ef-4200 -a361 -6a4550a31b9b/2022 -12-12-siemens -
energy -ag-annual -report -2022.pdf  
  
Audited consolidated financial statements of the Guarantor as of and for the fiscal year ended 
September 30, 2021 and independent auditor's report thereon included in the "Siemens Energy 
Annual Report 2021" (English translation)  
Consolidated Statements of Income  Page 64  
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  Page 65  
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position  Page 66  
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  Page 67  
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity  Page 68  
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  Pages 69 to 125  
Independent Auditor's Report1 Pages 128 to 133  
https://assets.siemens -energy.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:a400bf27 -8ce4 -4f48-8f2b-e89a9bd44b64/2021 -12-07-siemens -
energy -ag-annual -report -2021.pdf  
  
1 The independent auditor's report ( Bestätigungsvermerk des unabhängigen Abschlussprüfers ) refers to the consolidated financial 
statements and the respective group management report, which is combined with the management report of Siemens Energy 
AG, of the Guara ntor as a whole, and not solely to the consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference.  
*Page references refer to the pagination of the PDF document. 
The English language consolidated financial statements of the Guarantor as of and for the fi scal years ended September 30, 2022 
and September 30, 2021 and English language independent auditor's reports thereon and the English language  excerpts of the 
unaudited earnings release Q1 FY 2023 and consolidated financial results of the Guarantor as of a nd for the first quarter of fiscal 
year ending September 30,  2023 ended December  31, 2022 set out above and incorporated by reference into this Prospectus are 
translations of the respective German language documents.  
Non-disclosure of the stand -alone finan cial information of the Issuer is not likely to mislead investors with regards to facts and 
circumstances that are essential for assessing the Notes.  
Any information not incorporated by reference into this Prospectus but contained in one of the documents m entioned as source 
documents in the cross reference list above is either not relevant for the investor or covered in another part of this Prospe ctus. 
 
 ISSUER  
 
Siemens Energy Finance B.V.  
Stadhouderslaan 900  
Zoeterwoude, 2382BL  
The Netherlands  
 
GUARANTOR  
 
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto-Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
  
JOINT LEAD MANAGERS  
 
BNP Paribas  
16, boulevard des Italiens  
75009 Paris  
France  Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft  
Kaiserstraße 16 (Kaiserplatz)  
60311 Frankfurt am Main  
Germany  
Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment  Bank  
12, place des Etats -Unis  
CS 70052  
92547 Montrouge Cedex  
France  Mizuho Securities Europe GmbH  
Taunustor 1  
60310 Frankfurt am Main  
Germany  
Standard Chartered Bank AG  
Taunusanlage 16  
60325 Frankfurt am Main  
Germany  
  
CO-LEAD MANAGER S 
 
Bank of China (Europe) S.A.  
55 Boulevard Royal  
2449 Luxembourg  
Grand -Duchy of Luxembourg  Landesbank Hessen -Thüringen Girozentrale  
Main Tower  
Neue Mainzer Str. 52 -58 
60311 Frankfurt am Main  
Germany  
  
FISCAL AND PAYING AGENT  
  
BNP PARIBAS , Luxembourg Branch  
60 avenue J.F. Kennedy  
2085 Luxembourg  
Grand -Duchy of Luxembourg  
  
LEGAL ADVISORS  
  
To the Issuer as to German law  
Clifford Chance Partnerschaft mbB  
Junghofstraße 14  
60311 Frankfurt am Main  
Germany  
  
To the Managers  
as to German law  
White & Case  
Bockenheimer Landstraße 20  
60323 Frankfurt am Main  
Germany  as to Dutch law  
Kennedy Van der Laan N.V.  
Molenwerf 16  
Amsterdam, 1014BG  
The Netherlands  
  
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE GUARANTOR  
 
Ernst & Young GmbH  
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft  
Stuttgart, office Munich  
Arnulfstraße 59  
80636 Munich  
Germany  
 