Company Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Our company Overview About us We support companies and countries to reduce emissions across the energy landscape – for a more reliable, affordable and sustainable energy system. Learn more Working with us Our people make the difference. They connect, create, and keep us on track toward changing the world’s energy systems. Learn more about a career with Siemens Energy. Learn more Sustainability By energizing society we create lasting value for future generations. Learn more about our focus areas and goals towards a more sustainable world. Learn more Innovation Together with our partners, our engineers and researchers around the world are continuing to build on our tradition of innovation. With annual investments of more than $1 billion in R&D, we continuously bring innovations to market - for the benefit of people and society. Learn more Management Our Executive Board is committed to serving the interests of the company and achieving sustainable growth in company value. Learn more Compliance We show zero tolerance for corruption, breaches of the principles of fair competition and other violations of the law. Where these occur, we take action. Learn more Discover our news Step up to explore recent announcements, initiatives and financial information Go to media hub Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025