 
Disclosure pursuant to Art.  5 para.  1 lit. a) of Regulation (EU) No.  596/2014 (MAR)  
and Art.  2 para.  1 of Delegated Regulation (EU) No.  2016/1052  
The share buyback resolved today  by Siemens Energy  AG (hereinafter also referred to as " Company ") will 
commence on 2 January 2023. In the time period until 30 September  2023 at the longest , treasury shares 
of the Company with a maximum value of EUR  130,000,000.00 (excluding incidental transaction charges)  
shall be acquired, in total, however, no more than 72,664,519  no-par-value shares. The share  buyback 
serves the sole purpose of issuing shares to employees and members of the Executive Board of the 
Company  and employees and board members of  the Company’s affiliated companies in connection with 
share -based remuneration programs and  employee stock programs.  The Executive  Board thereby 
exercises the authorization granted by the Shareholders' Meeting of the Company  on 18 September 2020 
to acquir e treasury shares pursuant to section 71 para. 1 no. 8 of the German Stock Corporation Act 
(Aktiengesetz, AktG). If the share buyback reaches the end of the validity period or the acquisition limits of 
this authorization, it can be continued under a new au thorization, subject to the granting of such new 
authorization to be approved by the Annual Shareholders ' Meeting for the acquisi tion and use of treasury 
shares .  
An institution is mandated to carry out the buyback, making its decisions on the time of the acquisition of 
shares independently and without the influence of the Company. The right of the Company to prematurely 
terminate the mandate of the institution in compliance with legal provisions remains unaffected. The share 
buyback may be terminated, susp ended and resumed at any time, subject to compliance with legal 
provisions.  
The buyback shall be implemented exclusively on the electronic trading platform of the Frankfurt Stock 
Exchange (Xetra).  
The purchase price per repurchased share (excluding inciden tal transaction charges) must neither exceed 
the share price of a share of Siemens Energy  AG on a trading day , as determined by the opening auction 
of a Siemens Energy  Share in X etra trading (or a comparable successor system) by more than 10% nor 
fall below such market price by more than 20%.  
The institution is further obligated to comply with the trading conditions of Art.  3 para. 1 and 2 as well as 
para. 3 subparagraph 1 and 2 lit. b) Delegated Regulation (EU) No.  2016/1052 (hereinafter also referred to 
as "Buyback Regulation "). According to the Buyback Regulation, inter alia , no purchase price may be paid 
which exceeds the price of the last independent trade or the highest independe nt bid placed at the time of 
the purchase on the stock exchange on which the purchase is carried out, the higher of the two values 
being relevant. Furthermore, pursuant to the Buyback Regulation, no more than 25% of the average daily 
volume of shares on th e stock exchange on which the purchase is carried out may be acquired. The average 
volume of shares is based on the average daily trade volume of the 20 trading days preceding the specific 
date of purchase.  
The daily volumes of Siemens Energy shares to be acquired by the  institution mandated with the purchase 
of trea sury shares depend  on the development of their stock market  price . Siemens Energy AG remains 
entitled to modify the volume instructions. Further , the buyback shall be implemented in the way most 
favourable and in line with the Company’s interest . 
The transactions will be announced pursuant to the requirements of Art.  2 para. 3 Buyback Regulation in a 
detailed and an aggregated form no later than on the seventh trading day after their execution. Furthermore, 
Siemens Energy  AG will publish the transactions on its website under www.siemens -
energy.com/sharebuyback  and ensure that the information will be publicly accessible for a period of at least 
five years from the day of disclosure.  
 
Munich, 23 December  2022 
Siemens Energy  AG 
The Executive Board  