Innovations I Siemens Energy Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Innovation at Siemens Energy Discover Siemens Energy's innovations and advancements in energy technology and partnerships. The success of the energy transition hinges on mitigating the effects of climate change, while at the same time creating a secure, reliable, and affordable energy system for all. Achieving this will take time and require organizations across industries to rethink traditional ways of working, including how they develop technologies and engage internally and externally to deploy their products and services. Agility, efficiency, and collaboration will be key to driving innovation and driving in the rapidly evolving business environment. There is no energy transition without innovation. Are you interested in collaborating with us? Submit your request Innovative technologies: 35 % of emission reduction will come from technologies which have not yet reached the market. More than 1 billion US$ is being invested by Siemens Energy anually in R&D. Siemens Energy’s collaborative innovation approach At the core of Siemens Energy is a commitment to innovation. We strive to continuously push the boundaries of what is possible by staying at the leading edge of disruption. It’s estimated that 35% of all emissions savings in 2050 will come from technologies that have not yet reached the market. Our innovation strategy focuses on changing this by transforming ideas into reality and creating an ecosystem in which the technologies with the greatest potential t o support energy transition strategies can succeed. Explore our approach to innovation, highlighting how we innovate, where we innovate, and what we innovate. How we innovate Our approach to innovation is broad-based and focuses on driving the Energy Transition through multiple pathways, including: Incremental Innovation Adjacent Innovation Significant Innovation Disruptive Innovation We do this by building our capabilities through R&D and co-creating with partners to unlock synergies and find new solutions to problems. Discover more about our Siemens Energy Ventures and explore the success stories of our partners who are driving innovation alongside us. Siemens Energy Ventures Where we innovate The transition to a decarbonized global energy system will look different for every country and region. Technologies and solutions that work well in one area or location may not be relevant in another, whether due to regulations, environmental conditions, existing infrastructure, societal needs, etc. Our Innovation Centers provide a dedicated workforce for focused execution of our field of action related R&D projects and make best use of our regional partnering ecosystems, i. e. external funding opportunities, academia, start-ups, and industrial partners. We recognize this reality and have established our Innovation Centers strategically at Orlando (USA), Berlin (Germany), Abu Dhabi (UAE), and Shenzhen (China). Learn more about our Innovation Centers What we innovate At Siemens Energy, we are focusing on three key areas to decisively shape tomorrow’s world: low- and zero-emission power generation; efficient transmission and storage of electricity; and reducing CO₂ emissions from industrial processes. Based on future economic value and industry needs, we have identified five Fields of Action, each of which is meant to effect meaningful progress in these three areas and serve the core mission to accelerate the energy transition: Carbon and product circularity This includes Power-to-X technologies with direct air capture of CO₂ from the air and CO₂ electrolysis, as well as eco-resilient technologies and methods. Power-to-X: climate-neutral sector coupling Green hydrogen production 24/7 Carbon-free energy supply This involves multi-day energy storage combined with energy management and forecasting systems. Digital services Storage solutions Decarbonized heat and industrial processes Siemens Energy is working on high-temperature heat pumps, electrified industrial heat supply, turbo heaters, rotating olefin crackers, and industrial waste heat recovery. Large-scale industrial heat pumps Heat ReCycling Condition-based service interventions Developing digital twins to enable decarbonized plant operations, considering energy management, system reliability, and potentially autonomous operation. Customer Technical Services (CTS) Autonomous power plants Resilient grids and reliability The focus here is on grid digitalization, disruptive grid elements, high-energy-density energy systems, and hybrid grids. Grid automation Grid resilience Siemens Energy Innovation Centers around the world Our Innovation Centers differ in their capabilities and are tailored to serve the unique needs of the region and our customers that reside within it. This provides us with the ability to improve the speed and efficiency of technology deployment and target our innovation efforts where they will have the greatest impact. Click on the locations to explore each Innovation Center in detail: Leveraging collaboration and strategic partnerships to drive meaningful change At Siemens Energy, our innovation strategy is not just about technology and products. It is about empowering people and partners, both within the company and outside of it, to accelerate progress on the journey to net-zero. We strive to create a culture and framework where individuals and teams can take ownership of innovation and bring new concepts to market with the goal of better serving our customers and becoming the world’s premiere energy. Explore the stories below to see examples of how we collaborate with partners to drive innovation. Innovate together with Siemens Energy – there are numerous opportunities for collaboration and partnerships To support our commitment to sustainable, reliable, and affordable energy systems, we actively seek collaboration with suppliers, universities, startups, and inventors. Our focus is on delivering impact within the parameters of our innovation strategy. The goal is to optimally utilize our regional partnering ecosystems with partnerships that deliver different capabilities tailored to regional needs. We want to move fast to assess the value of innovative solutions from our partners. By doing this, we can create a mutually beneficial ecosystem where technologies with the greatest potential for the energy transition can flourish. Ready to partner with Siemens Energy on innovations? We are excited to explore new possibilities together and drive the future of energy technology. Submit your request FAQs: Innovation at Siemens Energy Explore our FAQs to find answers to your questions about collaboration topics and our approach to innovation in the energy transition. What is the role of innovation in the energy transition? Innovation is an essential tool to successfully make the energy transition happen. New environmentally friendly, carbon-free technologies are required, and existing technologies need to improve their cost position. This can only be achieved with innovative ideas turned into reality. What is the relationship between innovation and sustainability? Innovation and sustainability are closely intertwined, as innovative approaches and technologies are often essential for achieving sustainable development goals. As an example, Innovations in renewable energy technologies, such as solar and wind power are crucial for reducing reliance on fossil fuels and lowering greenhouse gas emissions. Furthermore, Innovation can drive the creation of sustainable products that have a lower environmental footprint, are made from eco-friendly materials, and are designed for longevity and recyclability. What are the main areas where Siemens Energy is investing in innovative R&D? In general, Siemens Energy is investing in innovative R&D along the following two main themes: CO₂-free energy technologies: Siemens Energy is committed to developing technologies that support the transition to a low-carbon economy. This includes advancements in electrolyzer product lines to boost sales and support decarbonization efforts. Service and new growth fields: The company is enhancing its service capabilities and exploring new growth opportunities. This involves optimizing the use of its extensive service potential and improving the competitiveness of current products through stringent quality criteria. What new technologies is Siemens Energy working on? Siemens Energy is focusing its innovative activities to five focus fields: Decarbonized heat and industrial processes: Siemens Energy is working on high-temperature heat pumps, electrified industrial heat supply, turbo heaters, rotating olefin crackers, and industrial waste heat recovery. Carbon and product circularity: This includes Power-to-X technologies with direct air capture of CO₂ from the air and CO₂ electrolysis, as well as eco-resilient technologies and methods. Resilient grids and reliability: The focus here is on grid digitalization, disruptive grid elements, high-energy-density energy systems, and hybrid grids. Condition-based service interventions: Developing digital twins to enable decarbonized plant operations, considering energy management, system reliability, and potentially autonomous operation. 24/7 carbon-free energy supply: This involves multi-day energy storage combined with energy management and forecasting systems. What is Siemens Energy doing to create an ecosystem for energy transition technologies? Siemens Energy has created a global innovation setup to drive energy transition all over the globe. So called Innovation Centers in Europe (Berlin) , China (Shenzhen), UAE (Abu Dhabi) and the US (Orlando) are developing new technologies within the focus fields of action and are developing an innovation ecosystem jointly with partners from academia, research and industry. What internal initiatives has Siemens Energy implemented to promote innovation? Siemens Energy is constantly collecting ideas from its employees via an innovation collaboration platform called Innovation Orbit where idea campaigns are being published with different focuses (e.g., region- or organization-specific). How does Siemens Energy collaborate with external partners on innovation projects? Siemens Energy is collaborating with external partners on innovation projects by leveraging the Siemens Energy Innovation ecosystem: Academia & Research Siemens Energy collaborates with academic institutions and research organizations to drive innovation. For instance, they work with universities on research projects related to energy efficiency and sustainability. These projects can for instance be funded by Government grants. Start-ups Via Siemens Energy Ventures SE is collaborating with upcoming startups to drive innovative technologies and solutions. Industry Companies Siemens Energy forms long-term alliances with other companies to co-develop technologies and solutions. What are some recent successful innovation projects at Siemens Energy? Two current examples how innovative technologies are being developed and brought to reality are the following: Direct Air Capture (DAC): Siemens Energy has entered into a joint development agreement with Saudi Aramco to develop a Direct Air Capture (DAC) demonstration unit, which was delivered in the fiscal year 2024 and is scheduled to be operational in the first quarter of the fiscal year 2025 in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. Additionally, a Front-End Engineering and Design (FEED) study for a larger DAC pilot plant in Saudi Arabia is planned to be realized in the fiscal year 2025. The DAC technology involves extracting CO2 directly from the ambient air using chemical processes, which can then be stored or utilized to combat climate change. Electric Heater: Industrial process heat is responsible for over 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Siemens Energy is developing a cost-effective, highly efficient alternative for processing heat that generates no local emissions. At the same time, the team is designing a fully scaled 7.5 MW pilot plant of an electric heater operated with molten salt. This pilot project, developed in collaboration with our utility partner AES, is expected to begin testing in the summer of 2025 and validate the conversion of a 500 MW coal-fired power plant from AES to 100% green electricity. Who is responsible for driving innovation at Siemens Energy? Innovation is a corporate organization specifically installed and dedicated to driving innovation across the whole company. What impact has Siemens Energy's innovation had on the energy industry so far? Siemens Energy is constantly innovating to improve existing products and services, and to develop new products that all have a positive impact on the carbon footprint of Siemens Energy’s customers. What role will innovation play in Siemens Energy's future growth? With a rapidly changing energy landscape and the need for that change being driven by the energy transition, Innovation will play a pivotal role in Siemens Energy's future growth by driving advancements in technology, improving efficiency, and enabling the company to meet the evolving needs of the energy sector. How does the innovation process work at Siemens Energy? Our innovation process at Siemens Energy is both systematic and creative. We focus on delivering impact through research and development and collaboration with partners. Our goal is to move fast to assess the value of innovative solutions to turn them into reality. What kind of organizations is SE interested in collaborating with? Siemens Energy is interested in collaborating with potential suppliers, R&D partners, universities, inventors and Startups along with many others. Read more April 10, 2025 How to optimize the aluminum supply chain network? Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq November 12, 2024 4 min read What will it take to decarbonize grid energy’s supply chain? 3 min read PacificLight, Singapore: Advanced Turbine Efficiency Package (ATEP) to improve power plant efficiency and power output See all stories Read more May 8, 2025 Munich Second Quarter Results FY 2025 May 8, 2025 Munich Earnings Release Q2 FY 2025: Outlook raised after strong first half year results, especially in the second quarter – focus on profitable growth See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025