siemens-energy.com/sustainabilitySustainability Report 2024 
Focusing on resilience
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 2well on track. And we already achieved 24% women  
in top leadership positions. One thing I am particularly 
proud of is that Siemens Energy reduced its pay differ -
ences between men and women for the second year  
in a row, leading to an adjusted Gender Pay Gap of 3% 
in fiscal year 2024. These successes would not have 
been possible without the dedication and hard work  
of our employees. For this, I extend my heartfelt thanks 
to all involved.
In the years to come, we will focus on increasing the 
resilience of energy systems while supporting our cus-
tomers in their energy transition. We will continue to 
advance the strategic integration of sustainability and 
focus on our future climate roadmap that aligns our 
business goals with our sustainability ambitions.
I am proud of what we have achieved so far and look 
forward to taking the next steps toward a sustainable 
energy future together with you.
Best regards,Focusing on resilience
  Christian Bruch  
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer Siemens Energy AG
Dear readers,
Our role in the global energy transition is more crucial 
than ever, especially in light of geopolitical challenges 
and the urgent need to reduce the global carbon foot-
print. However, the energy transition is not only a deci-
sive building block for a sustainable future; it also 
entails numerous growth opportunities.
Over the past years, Siemens Energy has made sig-
nificant progress on our journey toward a sustainable 
future. Our commitment to the UN Global Compact 
remains strong. We have set up a comprehensive Sus-
tainability Program and built a solid foundation that 
allows us to embed our initiatives across all our opera-
tions. The integration of ESG criteria into our long-term 
incentive systems and sustainable financing structures 
is a testament to this. We have established a Sustain-
ability Council that decides on the strategic sustainabil-
ity agenda, and sustainability is a regular topic in our 
Supervisory Board meetings. ESG is an integral part of 
our business strategy.
In fiscal year 2024, we concentrated on the consistent 
implementation and steady progress of our existing 
programs. A particular focus has been on decarbonizing 
our portfolio. With our Climate Neutral Program, we are Annex The company Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Foreword
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 3Performance indicator Unit 2024 2023
Greenhouse gas emissions
Scope 1+2 emissions
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 197 180
thereof SF6 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 21 32
thereof fleet 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 40 38
Scope 3 downstream emissions¹
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 1,333,642 1,098,370
intensity metric tons CO2 e/ 
€ order intake0.027 0.022
Scope 3 upstream emissions²
absolute 1,000  metric tons CO2 e 9,238 9,230
intensity kg CO2 e/€ PVO spent 0.408 0.414
Energy
Energy consumption million gigajoule 5.93 5.48
Share of green electricity % 100 100Performance indicator Unit 2024 2023
Research & development
Research & development expenses million € 1,209 1,123
Sustainable supply chain management
Supplier sustainability risk coverage rate % 44.5 n.a.
Waste
Waste recycling and recovery rate % 87 82
Water
Water consumption million cubic meters 2.57 3.25
Product stewardship
Portfolio coverage by Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) % 75 73
Employees
Share of women in overall workforce % 21 20
Share of women in top leadership positions % 24 26
Training hours per employee no. 13.0 12.0
Occupational health and safety
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of employees and contractors³ no. 2.35 2.67
Donations million € 3.36 2.59Decarbonizing our business Responsible operationsOur sustainability performance 
¹ Includes category “use of sold products” only (well-to-tank emissions are included, biogenic emissions have been excluded). Siemens Gamesaʼs emissions equal zero.
²  Includes categories “purchased goods and services“ and “transportation and distribution” only.
³  Total Recordable Injury Rate: Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed. Recordable injuries are accidents that result in lost time, restricted 
work, or medical treatment. Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 4Content
3 Responsible operations
Summary pages 36/37
Occupational health and safety 38
Zero Harm framework and safety culture
Highlight: Staying safe on project sites 42
Conservation of resources 44
environmental standards, water, and waste
Product stewardship 48
product safety, footprint, and material compliance
Sustainable supply chain management 52
engagement, assessment, and minerals sourcing
Human rights 56
commitment, due diligence, and transparency
Compliance and integrity 58
zero-tolerance, training, and risk management
Working at Siemens Energy 62
inclusion & diversity, leadership, and training
Highlight: Promoting inclusion and diversity 714 Annex
The company and reporting method 74
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial  75 
Disclosures (TCFD)
Methodology for calculating CO2e emissions from 86  
Scope 3 – Use of sold products
Limited assurance report of the independent  88 
auditor
Imprint 90Foreword 2
Our sustainability performance  3
Content 4
Highlight: Enabling customers to decarbonize 5
1 The company
Siemens Energy at a glance 10
Strategic focus  12
our portfolio, program, and partnerships
2 Decarbonizing our business
Summary page 21
Customers and innovation 22
innovation approach and cybersecurity
Highlight: Driving innovation in grid technologies 26
Decarbonization  28
at customers, in operations, and of the supply chain	 Reference within the report  
		 Link to an external referenceThe company Foreword Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex Content
Strategic 
partnerships 
for sustainable 
energy
We’ve set ambitious sustainability targets across the entire value chain and 
defined the key levers for decarbonization. We have the technology, 
innovations, and people – now it’s time to keep pushing the boundaries of 
what’s possible and affordable in the energy transition through mutually 
beneficial partnerships with our customers. We can’t do it alone. Plus, Dieter 
Vollkommer offers some insights into his role as Head of Corporate 
Sustainability at Siemens Energy.
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024
Page 5The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Grid technology: An alliance to  
decarbonize the supply chain
 
We’re shaking up energy’s purchasing world by working together with 
the European grid operator TenneT to decarbonize our joint supply 
chain for grid infrastructure. In July 2024, Siemens Energy and TenneT 
entered a partnership to reduce emissions from our shared supply 
chain activities by 30% by 2030. The declaration signals our commit-
ment to go beyond legislative requirements in decarbonizing the value 
chain. Measures include working to conserve raw materials and intro-
ducing other base materials including recycled or greener copper, steel, 
and aluminum.  By joining forces with TenneT, we’ll have a major 
impact on lowering the carbon footprint of power grids. Just in Ger -
many, TenneT plans to add around 12,000 kilometers of grid expansion: 
“We’re talking about immense quantities of steel, copper, and other raw 
materials that we need for the energy transition,” says TenneT’s Chief 
Operating Officer Tim Meyerjürgens. To start decarbonizing raw materi-
als, we’ve identified ten actions over the next five years, starting by 
supplying TenneT with transformers made with 100% recycled copper – 
this action alone will save around 6,500 tons of emissions.
Our goal is to reduce supply chain emissions by 30% by 2030, for example with 
the use of recycled copper in transformers.
Our biggest levers for decarbonization
When it comes to decarbonization, we aim to be the partner of choice for 
our customers. This also means that we take care of our own emissions to 
serve as an example. In fiscal year 2024, with our Climate Neutral Program, 
we reduced emissions of CO2 equivalents (CO2e) within our own opera-
tions by 55% compared to 2019, reaching our target for 2025 earlier than 
anticipated. 
But this isn’t enough.
More than 99% of the company’s greenhouse gas emissions come from the 
customers’ use of our products. Clearly, it’s here we have the opportunity to 
make a major difference – and we’re already building new partnerships and 
working collaboratively with our customers to achieve this. 
Our goal is to reduce these Scope 3 downstream emissions significantly.  
The SBTi framework asks us to reduce them by 28% by 2030 from a 2019 base 
year. In fiscal year 2023, we achieved a reduction of 27%. In fiscal year 2024, 
however, increased order intake made reaching our target trajectory more 
challenging, leading to an increase of Scope 3 emissions compared to fiscal 
year 2023. As a company, we need to stay profitable and at the same time 
contribute to limiting global warming. Shaping the energy transition is an 
enormous task, and we can only do our part if we’re profitable. 
Our biggest levers in getting us there are strengthening energy efficiency 
and digitalization, increasing renewables and electrification, and enabling 
the fuel shift to low-carbon and carbon-neutral fuels as well as the expansion 
of new emission removal technologies. 
Beyond 2030, we expect to see emissions from sold products to go down fur -
ther, once technologies like green hydrogen and carbon capture mature and 
scale. But in the meantime, the shift from coal to natural gas is already mak -
ing rapid cuts. For example, in fiscal year 2024, we helped Cooperative 
Energy convert its Morrow Power Plant in Mississippi from coal to gas with an 
SGT6-9000HL gas turbine, reducing their CO2 emissions by 2 million metric 
tons per year. Worldwide energy demand is going to dramatically increase in the coming 
years, making sustainability in the energy sector a matter of urgency. So 
urgent that in twenty years’ time, probably nobody will highlight that a prod-
uct is sustainable – it will be a given.
This is the future energy landscape our customers will face, driven by stake-
holder demands and increasing sustainability regulations that require energy 
providers to pivot away from “business as usual” in favor of new markets. In 
this new landscape, sustainability will be one foundation for growth – accom-
panying our customers step by step on the road there will be key. 
Page 6 Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Electrolyzers: The future of  
hydrogen tech manufacturing
 
Demand for hydrogen reached more than 97 million metric tons per  
year in 2023. To date, nearly all hydrogen consumed is gray hydrogen, 
produced from fossil fuels. But demand for clean hydrogen is rising and 
projected to increase between 125 and 585 million tons per annum by 
2050. This year, our new Gigawatt Electrolyzer Factory in Berlin, Ger -
many, ramped up production of electrolyzer components. A joint venture 
between Siemens Energy and French partner Air Liquide, the factory 
uses high-tech robots, automation, and digitalization to manufacture 
electrolyzer stacks at an industrial scale. Electrolyzers use electricity to 
split water into hydrogen and oxygen and are thus the central technology 
in producing low-emission hydrogen. By making them available in large 
scale, we’re helping to decarbonize industries such the maritime, road 
transport, chemicals, and refining industries. Starting with one gigawatt 
of production capacity, the factory can provide three gigawatts of elec-
trolysis capacity from 2025 if the market requires it. With an installed 
capacity of three gigawatts, 300,000 tons of hydrogen could be pro-
duced – enough hydrogen to reduce emissions equivalent to a city of 
280,000 inhabitants. “With the Gigafactory, we can reliably deliver and 
support our customers in the successful realization of even large-scale 
projects,” says the plant’s Head of Manufacturing Axel von Levetzow.
The industrial production of electrolyzers will help to supply high quality  
products at GW-scale for renewable hydrogen projects.Dieter Vollkommer on pursuing sustainability
As Head of Corporate Sustainability, Dieter Vollkommer is responsible 
for integrating environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) 
priorities into Siemens Energy’s strategy.
What does sustainability at Siemens Energy mean for the business?
Sustainability is really about grasping business opportunities and reducing 
risks. That includes minimizing our climate footprint in our own operations 
and manufacturing, as well as the emissions from the use of our products. 
We consider sustainability in the decisions we make, from the innovations 
we pursue to the way we’re trying to conserve resources. Sustainability 
touches our entire company culture. It’s reflected in our health and safety 
targets. It’s in our diversity goals. We’re striving to be a fair and inclusive 
company, one where everybody can be themselves at work.
How is Siemens Energy reducing the company’s carbon footprint?
Our goal is to be climate neutral within our operations by 2030. One lever 
is that we’re only using renewable electricity in all our facilities around the 
globe, a remarkable target we reached in fiscal year 2023. We’re also focus-
ing on reducing energy consumption and increasing electrification in our 
processes and buildings, and we’re transforming our entire car fleet to 
100% electric vehicles. Of course, while we push for climate neutrality in  
 Driving sustainability and profit in tandem
Our efforts are part of our intense cooperation with our customers, who require 
a wide range of products to meet the needs of a rapidly growing electricity 
market. Our grid and gas turbine business in particular is benefitting from this 
momentum, multiplying order intake at Gas Services in fiscal year 2024 and 
reaching a record order backlog in both our Gas Services and Grid Technologies.
At the same time, the energy sector is quickly evolving, and customers need to 
feel confident that the assets they’re investing in today won’t be stranded 
tomorrow – predictability matters! A transformer typically has a lifetime of 
twenty to thirty years. With proper maintenance, a gas turbine can remain oper -
ational for as long as forty. Can we widen their role in the energy transition?
As carbon-free hydrogen production scales, we offer customers like Morrow a 
decarbonization pathway to operate our gas turbines on 100% hydrogen by 
2030, making their assets not only viable in a net-zero energy system but 
central to maintaining grid stability now and in the future. For hydrogen to 
truly become a game changer though, it will have to be available in large quan-
tities at competitive prices. In fiscal year 2023, in a joint venture with industrial 
gases provider Air Liquide, we opened our Gigawatt Electrolyzer Factory as part 
of the ramp-up to a hydrogen economy. In fiscal year 2024, the factory 
increased its production of electrolyzer stacks from one to two gigawatts.
On the materials side, in September 2024, we signed an agreement with the 
grid operator TenneT to provide transformers with a lower carbon footprint 
by using 100% recycled copper for their windings. If recycled copper were 
used for all power transformers required worldwide to expand the electrical 
grid by 2040, it would save around 14 million metric tons of greenhouse gas 
emissions. There’s a tremendous opportunity here – for our business and for 
the planet! 
We’re proud and confident of our role in enabling the energy sector to evolve, 
but we can’t do it alone. What we need now are climate-smart regulatory 
frameworks that offer predictability and stability for investors, while we con-
tinue to build new partnerships and collaborations with our customers and 
key industry players around the world, working and innovating together for a 
sustainable energy future.
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024
Page 7The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Wind: Pioneering turbine recyclability
We aim to produce 100% recyclable wind turbines by 2040. With the 
rate of expansion for wind power expected to double by the end of the 
decade, recycling wind turbine components – or “wind circularity” – is 
high on our agenda. There are already established practices for effi-
ciently recycling most turbine parts, but recycling the blades has pre-
sented a greater challenge. Usually made of fiberglass and resins, 
long-lasting composite materials are created that are not easily recy -
cled. We’re changing that with our pioneering RecyclableBlade tech-
nology, the first comprehensive recycling solution ready for commer -
cial use. All materials used for the blade can be recycled and reused in 
other industries, thanks to the use of a new resin. The first blades were 
already installed in 2021 at the offshore wind farm Kaskasi off the 
coast of the Germany. Eighty-one meters long, the blades can be recy -
cled at the end of their lifespan, lowering our lifecycle emissions and 
giving the industry a chance to improve its footprint.Our RecyclableBlades leaving for the Kaskasi offshore development.Gas turbines: Forward-thinking power generation
The switch from coal to natural gas is opening up a new era in the 
energy transition, offering far cleaner electricity and paving the way 
for the energy transition. For example, in Mississippi, USA, Cooperative 
Energy, a generation and transmission cooperative, converted its exist-
ing coal-fired power plant to natural gas in its Morrow Repower  
project. The goal was to increase flexibility and reduce emissions, and 
to do this, Cooperative Energy chose to use our cutting-edge SGT6-
9000HL gas turbine. Together with a steam turbine retrofitted from 
previous coal plant operations, the new plant is capable of producing 
550 megawatts of electricity and uses thermal power from the new 
turbine in its existing thermal plant system, making it as efficient as a 
new combined-cycle plant. The project was so successful that it won 
Power magazine’s 2024 Reinvention Award. The new plant reduces CO2 
emissions by up to two million metric tons per annum compared to the 
coal-fired plant. And it’s helping ensure that people in the region of 
Mississippi will benefit from safe, reliable, and affordable power for 
years to come. What’s more, the SGT-9000HL is already capable of run-
ning on a volume of 50% hydrogen today and 100% hydrogen by 2030.
Morrow Repower increases the production of cleaner power and provides the 
flexibility needed to complement renewable energy.our operations, the biggest challenge is to push decarbonization up and 
down the value chain. If you look at our company footprint, around 99% of 
it comes from Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products. 
What measures are being taken to cut the company’s Scope 3 emissions?
We aim to reduce Scope 3 downstream emissions by 28% by 2030 com-
pared to 2019. This is really ambitious if one considers the way Scope 3 is 
calculated: In the year we sell the respective product, we calculate the 
emissions for the entire lifetime. As our business grows, it’s quite natural 
that our CO2 footprint goes up. But we can still influence Scope 3 emis-
sions through various levers: The first one is efficiency gains with improved 
products and digitalization. The second is offering GHG-free products and 
products supporting the shift to hydrogen – this will be a huge lever. A 
third is enabling technologies like carbon capture and storage (CCS) to 
mature in the coming years; we’re already seeing projects combining gas 
turbines with CCS that are close to climate neutral. Also, since November 
2020, we no longer offer new coal-fired projects, which made up a signifi-
cant part of our overall CO2 emissions. And last but not least, by bringing 
more renewables into the system, we expect our customers will operate 
their gas turbines less and less in the future. All these elements come 
together to bring down our emissions. From a purely technological per -
spective, we’re on the forefront of what’s possible in the energy transition. 
In addition, we’ve collected and processed ESG data for around 90% of our 
Scope 3 downstream emissions for strategic forecasting with our ESG data 
management solution. I think this shows our commitment to understand-
ing and calculating Scope 3 emissions and how serious we are about man-
aging them. This is going to become more and more relevant going for -
ward with the new Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). 
And as more ESG data flows into this data management system, we’ll have 
an entire sustainability data pool for the company in the future.
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024
Page 8The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 9The company
Siemens Energy at a glance 10
Strategic focus  121Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 10Siemens Energy at a glance
Ready to adapt to different speeds at which the energy transition is mov -
ing forward, we are aiming for more energy resilience on a global scale. 
Our people are the engine of this mission. As of September 30, 2024, 
Siemens Energy employs about 99,000 people in more than 90 countries 
worldwide.
 Our mission is to support our customers in transitioning to a more sustain-
able world based on our innovative technologies and our ability to turn 
ideas into reality. All our efforts are directed to our central goal: to be a 
valued partner and driver of the energy transition. Our portfolio, extensive 
energy experience, and ambition to decarbonize the world’s energy  
systems reflect this.
As one of the largest providers of advanced technology in the energy and 
electricity sector, we are committed to supporting the full spectrum of the 
global energy market. Our comprehensive portfolio of products, solutions, 
and services spans nearly the entire energy value chain – from low- or 
zero-emission power and heat generation, transmission, and storage to 
reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and optimizing energy  
consumption in industrial processes. In addition, we provide a robust 
range of training and service offers, reinforcing our dedication to a more 
sustainable energy future.Orders
(in billions of €)
~ 50~ 34Revenue
(in billions of €)
~ 123Order backlog
(in billions of €)Key financial indicators Key financial indicators Fiscal year
(in billions of €) 2024 2023
Orders 50.2 50.4
Order backlog 123.3 111.6
Revenue 34.5 31.1Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 11Our company structure
Since the start of fiscal year 2023, Siemens Energy has been strategically 
aligned into four Business Areas: Gas Services (GS), Grid Technologies (GT), 
Transformation of Industry (TI), and Siemens Gamesa. GS, GT, and Siemens 
Gamesa are reportable segments, while TI reports on a voluntary basis. 
This structure allows us to address the evolving demands of the energy 
sector with focused expertise and innovation. 
• The Business Area Gas Services (GS) bundles all business activities 
related to gas turbines, large steam turbines, large generators, and heat 
pumps, including auxiliaries, instrumentation, and controls. The portfo-
lio includes products, solutions, and services for central and distributed power generation. GS supports its customers all the way from installing 
new units to servicing the installed fleet, with a comprehensive service 
portfolio that covers maintenance services, modernization and 
upgrades, operations services, digitalization services (e.g., cyber secu-
rity), and professional consulting.
• Grid Technologies (GT) focuses on increasing connectivity, resilience, 
digitalization, and decarbonization of power grids all over the world. 
Through its products, systems, solutions, and services, GT enables 
transmission grids to cope with growing energy demands and the 
increasing complexity of grid infrastructures resulting from the integra-
tion of renewables. Its portfolio includes high-voltage direct current 
transmission systems, offshore windfarm grid connections, flexible AC transmission systems, high-voltage substation solutions and products, 
air- and gas-insulated switchgear, transformers, storage solutions, as 
well as digital and service offers.
• Transformation of Industry  (TI) comprises four non-reportable operat-
ing segments – Industrial Steam Turbines & Generators (STG), Compres-
sion (CP), Sustainable Energy Systems (SES), and Electrification, Auto-
mation, Digitalization (EAD) – that are presented voluntarily as if they 
were a single reportable segment. TI supports industrial customers in 
reducing their carbon footprint and achieving their individual decarbon-
ization targets. Its portfolio includes products (e.g., compressors, steam 
turbines, generators, automation systems, sensors, and electrolyzers), 
digital offers (e.g., remote monitoring), integrated systems and solu-
tions, and services (e.g., field service, modernization and upgrades) for 
various process industries and the maritime sector.
• The Business Area Siemens Gamesa  offers onshore and offshore wind 
turbines as well as services over the entire life cycle of wind turbines.Our company structure
Gas Services Siemens Gamesa Transformation  
of IndustryGrid Technologies Siemens EnergyAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 12Our world faces an ever-increasing need for a reliable and affordable 
energy supply to support economic development and ensure stable socie-
ties. At the same time, the climate crisis is still far from being solved and it 
is becoming less and less likely that we will meet the goals of the Paris  
Climate Agreement. This demonstrates the urgent need for investment in 
renewable energy on a global scale, offering potential business opportuni-
ties for companies like us. The World Energy Investment 2023 report¹ by 
the International Energy Agency states that global energy investment is 
picking up, and the rise in clean energy investment since 2021 is leading 
the way, outpacing the increase in fossil fuel investment by almost three-
to-one.
With our broad portfolio that spans the entire energy value chain and our 
global presence, we are well positioned to drive the energy transition  
forward. Our solutions play a critical role in supporting the decarboni-  
zation of the energy system, helping to create a more sustainable and 
resilient energy future.Our strategy for the energy transition
Global electricity and energy markets are changing significantly in terms of 
energy demand, regulation, and underlying generation technologies to 
support decarbonization. We are committed to supporting our customers 
and society in this ongoing transformation toward a low-carbon future by 
focusing on sustainable solutions in our portfolio and operations.
We believe in a future energy system that prioritizes renewable sources, a 
robust grid infrastructure, and improved energy efficiency in industry, 
while also utilizing low-emission conventional power with the potential for 
decarbonization.
We are continuing our journey toward a sustainable portfolio, driving prof-
itable growth based on our three strategic pillars:
• Low- or zero-emission power generation
• Transport and storage of electricity
• GHG footprint and energy consumption reduction in industrial processesOur focus is on developing new products that support our customers in 
their energy transition, based on their future revenue and profit potential:
• Expand renewables: We are convinced that wind power is a core  
solution for zero-emission power generation that allows governments  
to pursue their decarbonization targets. We are committed to turning 
around our Business Area Siemens Gamesa, focusing on core markets  
in Europe and North America. Additionally, we will continue advancing 
the circular economy with our RecyclableBlade and GreenerTower tech-
nologies.
• Transform conventional power: We support an energy transition that 
includes conventional generation – complemented by decarbonization 
solutions – to ensure grid stability and meet peak demand. Our Gas Ser -
vices Business Area contributes to this through efficient combined-cycle 
gas turbines (CCGTs), the goal of 100% H2 co-firing by 2030, and carbon 
capture technologies.
• Strengthen electricity grids: We remain committed to strengthening 
global grids to support renewable energy and electrification for a car -
bon-free future. Our focus is on developing new products, services,  
and solutions for the transportation and storage of electricity.Strategic focus 
Affordable and sustainable energy remains key to overcoming the climate crisis as well as  
a critical driver for future growth and prosperity for global societies. That is why we have 
made sustainability a core part of our company strategy.
¹  International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Investment 2023, 
 https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-investment-2023Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 13• Drive industry decarbonization: We support our process industry  
customers in their decarbonization journey by offering them sustainable 
concepts for existing and new facilities. In particular, we are focusing  
on electrifying industrial processes and implementing circular economy 
approaches. We have developed electrolyzers and integrated energy  
systems to support the ramp-up of the hydrogen economy.
• Secure supply chains: In a persistently unstable environment, we have 
bundled supply chain expertise in our Global Functions to ensure access 
to critical components and minerals, to monitor and manage supply 
chain risk exposure, and to control our products’ upstream emissions. 
To boost effectiveness, we have streamlined our organization for faster 
decisions, closer customer engagement, and better project execution.  
We have reduced hierarchies, clarified roles, unified our go-to-market 
setup, and created a dedicated Project Entity to uphold global standards, 
including sustainability.
Our market view
We expect our addressable market to grow by 9.3% (CAGR) from €246  
billion in fiscal year 2023 to €419 billion in 2029. As a result of investment 
programs in the U.S. and the EU, we anticipate that the North American 
and European markets will continue to make up more than 50% of our 
addressable market until 2029.
To ensure we remain a resilient, profitable, and sustainable business,  
we have included climate considerations in our market evaluation and 
strategy process. We use three market scenarios with the resulting climate 
outcomes for our market evaluation. In addition, we have developed  
a detailed annual forecast of the Scope 3 downstream CO2e emissions  
for products sold per Business Area, with the forecast going up to 2030 
and building on our business planning (see chapter 	Decarbonization ).A total of $3 trillion is set to be invested in energy globally in fiscal year 
2024, of which around $2 trillion are expected to go to clean technologies 
– including renewables, electric vehicles, nuclear power, grids, storage, 
low-emission fuels, efficiency improvements, and heat pumps – according 
to the IEA’s latest World Energy Investment report.¹ At Siemens Energy,  
we aim to be in a leading market position in each of our Business Areas, 
with a clear focus on innovation to develop new technologies that foster 
the energy transition. Over the past three years, we spent roughly €1.1  
billion on R&D each year (see chapter 	Customers and innovation ).
Our progress
Several key business parameters demonstrate the success of our strategy:
• We have reached a record order backlog of €123 billion
• We have increased our revenue by 11% comp.² versus fiscal year 2023
• We are actively shaping our portfolio by allocating 25% of the R&D 
expenditures of Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) to our 
current field of actions (see chapter 	Customers and innovation )
• 42.9% of our revenue in fiscal year 2024 was EU Taxonomy-aligned (see 
chapter 	Decarbonization )
Across our businesses, we remain focused on driving the sustainability of 
power generation, the coal-to-gas shift, the decentralization of energy 
supply, the transformation of existing infrastructure to support industries 
with energy efficiency, and decarbonization.
In fiscal year 2024, Siemens Gamesa has reviewed its mid- and long-term 
strategy to turn around its financial performance, aiming to break even  
in fiscal year 2026. We aim to lead the business toward sustainable and 
profitable growth.
¹ Source: IEA World Energy Investment 2024
² Comparable: excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.Reaching for net zero
In 2022, we set ourselves the long-term ambition to achieve net zero across 
the value chain for all greenhouse gases (see chapter 	Decarbonization ).
This requires portfolio changes, including more SF6-free products, a shift to 
green hydrogen, and climate-neutral supply chains. While we no longer bid 
on new coal-only plants, we will fulfill existing commitments. CO2-reduc-
ing services, solutions, and CHP projects will also continue. Additionally, 
we are working with our suppliers to reduce Scope 3 upstream emissions.
To mitigate the impact of climate change, we must begin to decarbonize 
our energy systems and electrify industry. Natural gas will continue to play 
a central role, particularly in the near term. With our gas turbine business, 
we support our customers with low- or zero-emission power generation 
technology. For example, two of the world’s largest and most efficient 
combined cycle power plants in Saudi Arabia with HL technology will gen-
erate 4 gigawatts of energy, which can save up to 60% CO2 emissions com-
pared to oil-fueled power plants. Also, the world’s first power plant with an 
H2-ready TÜV certification in Leipzig, Germany, operates two SGT800 units 
as combined cycle. A lever for existing power plants to reduce their emis-
sions will be the hydrogen co-firing modernization product, which Siemens 
Energy is testing and certifying for various collaborations with our custom-
ers. In Vienna, we successfully field-tested 15% hydrogen co-firing in an 
SGT5-4000F frame with Wien Energy, and we will continue this partner -
ship in an effort to achieve 30% co-firing.
We are committed to shaping our future portfolio by strategically reallocat-
ing R&D capital to solutions that help reduce GHG emissions from the use 
of sold products, as part of the strategic portfolio management process.Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 14High impactMedium impact
Our impact on the  
Sustainable Development Goals
SDGs on which we have a medium or high impact.In fiscal year 2023, we developed ESG guidance that informed the strategic 
R&D planning process and applied our ESG scoring methodology to R&D 
projects. We have made progress in our approach to evaluating venture 
activities, which includes ESG criteria such as climate impact and an exter -
nal benchmarking process to identify potential future partnership opportu-
nities or avenues for continued internal development. Furthermore, in cap-
ital expenditure (CapEx) projects at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa) involving a large investment sum, it is a mandatory requirement 
to evaluate the projects’ GHG impact using a CO2 shadow price of €100 per 
metric ton of CO2 equivalents (CO2e).
Our commitment to sustainability
We remain committed to integrating sustainability into our corporate strat-
egy by incorporating sustainability considerations into our strategic plan-
ning process. The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
guide and inspire us to maximize the impact of our effort. We have identi-
fied five SDGs as key focus areas:
• To achieve SDG 5, “Gender Equality,” we strive to create equal oppor-  
tunities – in the firm belief that not just our company but society as a 
whole can benefit from inclusion and diversity.
• By providing reliable, cost-effective, and sustainable energy for our  
customers, we contribute to SDG 7, “Affordable and Clean Energy.”
• We address SDG 8, “Decent Work and Economic Growth,” through the 
innovative power of our global operations, which stimulate economic 
development in many countries and create decent, future-proof jobs.Digitalization
Digitalization is one of the key levers to speed up industry transformation. 
At Siemens Energy, we are building a digital ecosystem that can connect 
various customer assets to gather operational data that can help in analyz-
ing performance and developing new value-adding applications or ser -
vices. Examples of such solutions are:
• An asset management solution that improves reliability and reduces 
maintenance costs by tracking operation, predicting potential failures, 
and recommending preventative actions
• A performance improvement solution that improves efficiency and 
reduces emissions. This solution also allows our customers to run  
their plants more flexibly in changing market conditions
• An energy management solution that guides customers in better  
managing their fossil-fired assets using artificial intelligence and 
machine learning. In one example, this solution helped a customer 
reduce emissions while improving their position in dispatch merit  
order to the network
• Protection from cybersecurity threats using technology that detects  
and responds to cyber attacks
The common thread is our ability to simulate impacts of external influ-
ences on complete energy systems. This allows us to design energy  
systems that meet demand with minimal emissions by intelligently com-
bining renewable and fossil fuel sources, while minimizing the degrada-
tion of equipment units.
More sustainable decisions
Integrating environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria in our 
decisions is essential for us. We have included a mandatory sustainability 
component in our qualification for suppliers with a purchasing volume 
above €10,000 for Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) and 
within high-risk countries for Siemens Gamesa. Furthermore, we conduct 
ESG due diligence in sales (see chapter 	Customers and innovation ).Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 15• Our products, services, and solutions for decarbonizing energy systems 
worldwide support the achievement of SDG 9, which is focused on 
“Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure.”
• We are committed to achieving SDG 13, “Climate Action,” by assisting 
our customers in reducing GHG emissions and working toward a net 
zero goal across the value chain.
We also acknowledge a medium impact on SDGs 3, 4, 6, 11, 12, 14, and 17.
Our Sustainability Program
Our Sustainability Program is designed to address the most pertinent 
issues, enabling us to become a sustainability leader in the industry while 
contributing to selected SDGs. It is also aligned with our company’s pur -
pose, “We energize society.”
To establish the Sustainability Program, we conducted a materiality analy -
sis in fiscal year 2020 to identify topics of relevance for business and soci-
ety by engaging in dialogue with selected internal and external stakehold-
ers. We regularly update this materiality analysis to seek input from 
relevant external stakeholder groups such as customers, investors, and 
partners.
In fiscal year 2023, we conducted a double materiality analysis to reflect 
the upcoming requirements of the Corporate Sustainability Reporting 
Directive (CSRD). We mapped the topics along the entire value chain and 
conducted surveys and interviews with external and internal experts to 
identify and assess the material topics. This confirmed that the most rele-
vant topics for Siemens Energy are energy use and efficiency as well as 
greenhouse gas emissions. Those two are followed by several topics that 
we see as enablers to drive decarbonization. The results are used for our present reporting in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Stan-
dards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Applying a threshold of 1.5 on 
the impact assessment leads to a smaller selection of topics that are of rel-
evance for the GRI: energy use and efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions, 
responsible sourcing, and innovative partnerships and collaborations.
For the remaining topics below the threshold, we then interviewed inter -
nal experts in the respective fields to cover strategically relevant topics 
that mirror our sustainability ambition and ensure continuity in reporting. 
Based on the experts’ judgment, we identified six additional material  
topics (see table below).
In fiscal year 2024, we re-evaluated the double materiality assessment 
with internal experts. The list of topics remains unchanged for this year’s 
reporting.
Our new program graphic showcases the six focus areas as well as the 
wider program areas.
Our Business Areas, regional entities, and Functions are responsible for 
implementing the Sustainability Program with a special eye on the six 
focus areas that we consider most strategically relevant.Our Sustainability Program
Decarbonizing
our businessResponsible
operationsProgram areas
Sustainability 
programFocus  
areas Climate  
neutral  
own  
operations
Talent  
attraction  
and retentionProduct  
stewardship
GHG  
emissions
Energy  
efficiency
Innovation
Employee  
engagement Conservation  
of resources
Societal  
engagementHuman 
rights
Compliance 
and integrity
Sustainable  
supply chainSustainable  
portfolio
People  
developmentInclusion  
and diversity
Health  
and safetyImpact materiality Strategic positioning and 
business reporting continuity
•  Energy use and efficiency
•  Greenhouse gas emissions
•  Responsible sourcing
•  Innovative partnerships and 
collaboration•  Talent attraction and retention
•  Equity, inclusion, and diversity
•  Occupational health and safety
•  Human rights
•  Business conduct/compliance
•  Business resilienceAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 16Implementing and managing the Sustainability 
Program 
Our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), who is also the CEO of our com-
pany, leads all sustainability activities. Sustainability is a regular topic on 
the agenda of Executive Board meetings, Supervisory Board meetings, and 
in wider leadership meetings.
Since the beginning of fiscal year 2023, we have a dedicated committee 
within our Supervisory Board: the Sustainability and Finance Committee 
(formerly Innovation and Finance Committee), chaired by Joe Kaeser, 
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG. The committee 
addresses sustainability issues and prepares resolutions of the Supervisory 
Board on the company’s financial situation and resources, especially on the 
annual budget, on investments, and on financial measures. It resolves cer -
tain transactions and measures for which the Executive Board requires 
approval. It also regularly addresses the company’s naming, branding, and 
design concept.
Our Sustainability Council meets every quarter and consists of deci-
sion-makers representing Business Areas, Regional Hubs, and Functions. 
The Sustainability Council strategically oversees the implementation of the 
Sustainability Program by making decisions, setting priorities and focal 
points where needed, providing resources for implementation, and serv -
ing as sustainability ambassadors both inside and outside of Siemens 
Energy. The Council reviews and approves the material topics and our vol-
untary non-financial disclosures. Our CEO, Christian Bruch, chairs the 
Council in his role as CSO.
The Vice President of Sustainability manages the Sustainability depart-
ment, responsible for driving sustainability within Siemens Energy and for 
coordinating company-wide sustainability activities, programs, and mea-
sures. The Sustainability department is part of the “Strategy & Sustainabil-
ity” Function that reports directly to the CEO/CSO, who also reviews and 
approves the annual Sustainability Report.To ensure that sustainability measures and initiatives are anchored in our 
organization and business activities, the respective organizational units 
have nominated Sustainability Business Partners who implement the 
global Sustainability Program in their areas of responsibility.
With a view to collecting and processing ESG data for strategic forecasting 
and reporting, we are setting up an ESG Data Management Solution to 
help implement sustainability across the company and increase transpar -
ency on our performance. We are confident that this will reduce the man-
ual effort required to gather data, increase data quality, and allow for 
internal benchmarking, as well as steering to reach our sustainability  
targets. The pilot project focuses on Scope 3 downstream emission data  
in the business, because we consider this to be our most impactful use 
case (see chapter 	Decarbonization ).
Relevance of ESG performance in sustainable financing and ESG ratings
Increasingly, ESG performance indicators are being used in sustainability-  
related financing constructs, such as Green Bonds or Revolving Credit Facil-
ities. Siemens Energy has issued a Revolving Credit Facility and a Green 
Bond as well as a Revolving Guarantee Facility. In fiscal year 2024, we 
updated the trajectories for the ESG performance indicators included. In 
addition, we committed to implementing an additional performance indi-
cator before March 31, 2025, for the Revolving Credit Facility to better 
reflect our carbon footprint.
The growing importance of ESG is also mirrored in our pension investments, 
with ESG now being a selection criterion when awarding mandates. With 
the ongoing development of the asset portfolio, an active investment was 
made in the area of “impact” and a first adaptation of passive investments 
to an ESG-optimized benchmark was initiated and successfully implemented 
for one of our mutual funds.
Our long-term equity-based compensation reflects the importance of sus-
tainability to Siemens Energy. It is granted to the members of the Executive 
Board and selected senior executives in the form of stock awards for reach-
ing non-financial targets in strategic ESG areas of Siemens Energy opera-
tions (for more information, please see our  Siemens Energy Annual Report 
2024, Compensation Report ).Various ESG rating agencies rate us, such as ISS ESG, Sustainalytics, MSCI 
ESG, and CDP. We welcome these ratings as assessments of our organiza-
tion and as a means of identifying areas for improvement. For more infor -
mation on our ESG ratings and rankings, please visit our corporate website.
Rating scores
 in industry low risk rating: 
11.3 top industry list
2023: #8 of 276
low risk rating: 13.6# 5 of 315 
scale of AAA to CCC
2023: ABBB
scale of A to D
2022: BA
75/100
2022: Gold (69/100)Gold 1st decile in industry
2023: B- (1st decile)B- prime
scale 1 to 5
FTSE4Good index member
2023: 3.93.7 Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 17Stakeholder engagement and collaborations
We are convinced that sustainable development can only be achieved if a 
wide range of stakeholders collaborate. Regular dialogue about issues 
affecting our business and society is central to our sustainability strategy. 
This approach is aligned with SDG 17, which calls for a global partnership 
that brings together governments, civil society, the private sector, the UN, 
and other stakeholders.
Working together on complex challenges can lead to better innovation and 
business outcomes. Siemens Energy participates, for example, in the 
Hydrogen Council, a global CEO-led initiative with the ambition to success-
fully ramp up the hydrogen economy and foster the clean energy transi-
tion. Using its global reach to promote collaboration between govern-
ments, industry, and investors, the council provides guidance on 
accelerating the deployment of hydrogen solutions around the world.With markets and technologies still needing to mature and scale, collabora-
tion is key to meet the needs of the energy transition. Siemens Energy and 
Saudi Aramco have signed an agreement to build a Direct Air Capture (DAC) 
demonstration unit, which aims to explore competing DAC technologies. 
This unit is intended to lay the groundwork for a larger pilot plant capable 
of capturing over 1,000 tons of CO2 per year.
In China, the International Forum of Insulation and Vacuum Technology for 
Eco-friendly High-Voltage Switchgear was successfully concluded on May 
23. This event was co-organized by Siemens Energy and jointly hosted by 
CMIF and the Global Environmental Institute. Over 100 expert representa-
tives from China’s main grid operators, research institutions, universities, 
overseas power enterprises, and switchgear manufacturers gathered for 
in-depth discussions held on policy trends, R&D, and the application of  
eco-friendly technology and equipment.We aim to promote the ramp-up of green hydrogen and economy-wide 
decarbonization through a joint venture between Siemens Energy and  
Air Liquide. The partnership came into force with the opening of the new 
electrolyzer production facility in Berlin on November 8, 2023, one of the 
first gigawatt-scale electrolyzer factories in the world. Together, we operate 
electrolyzer production, implementing modern robots and digitalization for 
highly automated production processes, thus fast-tracking sustainable 
manufacturing and the renewable hydrogen economy. Siemens Energy has 
also signed a Letter of Intent with its partner TenneT to drive the decarbon-
ization of the transmission industry. Together, we aim to reduce their com-
bined grid business CO2 footprint by 30% by 2030. To reach this goal, 
roughly ten joint initiatives have been identified across the value chain, 
including transformers using 100% recycled copper or green steel. We aim 
to use more sustainable materials, decarbonize our factory network, adopt 
innovative technology, and assess the potential for circularity models in 
Grid Technologies. 
Formats of engagementStakeholder group
Topics we engage onEmployees
All-hands meetings, open sessions 
between leaders and employees (ask 
me anything), location visits, letters 
by board members, emails, training 
sessions, Viva Engage communication, 
awards
Health & safety, culture, inclusion & 
diversity, innovation, employee devel-
opment, company strategy, and organi-
zational topicsCustomers
Conferences, trade fairs, bilateral 
engagement, questionnaires (e.g., 
EcoVadis, NQC)
Decarbonization roadmaps, Sustainabil-
ity Program, product-related topics,  
project due diligenceStakeholder engagement
Politics, associations,  
civil society
UN Global Compact, industry- specific 
forums and conferences, local engage-
ment, participation in One Young World 
summit, industry associations, direct 
governmental contacts (ministries,  
parliament, etc.)
Sustainability, decarbonization, energy 
security, global challenges, business 
supportShareholders and  
capital market
Quarterly earnings calls, Annual Report, 
annual shareholder’s meeting, regular 
roadshows and conference participa-
tion, investor relations website
Sustainability Program and targets, 
sustainable portfolio, energy transition, 
social engagement, and corporate  
governance topicsBanks,  
financial institutions
Mandatory reporting and information 
(e.g., Annual Report, Sustainability 
Report), bilateral meetings (know  
your customer process)
Sustainability performance, specific 
KPIs for ESG-linked financingSuppliers
Initiatives (e.g., Responsible Minerals 
Initiative), supplier days, workshops, 
bilateral engagement
Sustainability risk and performance, 
decarbonization, responsible minerals 
sourcingAnnex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 18Sharing knowledge through these engagements creates value on all sides 
and reduces risks. We regularly analyze existing partnerships and member -
ships and establish new relationships with investors, customers, suppliers, 
employees, communities, policymakers, media, non-governmental organi-
zations, business organizations, and academia. We are a signatory to the  
 UN Global Compact (UNGC) , pledging our commitment to its Ten Princi-
ples, and are a member of econsense, the German sustainability network.
We are a core partner of the Energy Resilience Leadership Group (ERLG), 
aiming to connect climate tech startups, corporate CEOs, political leaders, 
and financial institutions at the technology frontier. We launched the 
group alongside Breakthrough Energy at the 2023 Munich Security Confer -
ence with the goal of enhancing Europe’s energy resilience by rapidly 
bringing emerging climate technologies to scale and deploying commer -
cially viable projects within 24 months. 
We engage with political bodies, such as selected government think tanks 
and intergovernmental organizations. In Malaysia, for example, Siemens 
Energy will join a taskforce to implement the new National Energy Transi-
tion Roadmap (NETR) and Hydrogen Economy and Technology Roadmap 
(HETR), highlighting that the grids’ preparedness for renewables adoption 
is critical to guarantee a reliable and secure energy supply. Furthermore, 
as part of our partnership with the International Renewable Energy Agency 
(IRENA), Siemens Energy participates in the Alliance for Industry Decar -
bonization. The objective is to foster industry-level dialogue and increase 
cooperation to help companies develop sound decarbonization strategies 
and implementation plans.
Societal engagement
One form of stakeholder engagement is our societal engagement. Siemens 
Energy is committed to fostering a sustainable and inclusive future through 
various initiatives. Our actions empower diverse groups, drive innovation, 
and enhance community resilience, contributing to a more equitable and 
sustainable world.Our commitment combines a global engagement framework with auto-  
nomy for local implementation in the countries in which we operate.  
To focus our activities and increase our impact, our framework defines 
three focus areas based on our strategic context, our core competencies, 
the global targets for sustainable development, and the influence that var -
ious global megatrends (demographics, urbanization, climate change,  
globalization, and digitalization) have on our industry and our business. 
The focus areas are:
• Driving the Energy Transition: supporting clean energy projects and 
climate education
• Access to Education: promoting STEM skilling
• Sustaining Communities: providing disaster recovery – especially 
related to electricity supply
Since social projects are often driven by individuals, we encourage our 
employees to volunteer for specific programs. Our volunteering system 
encourages employees to opt for various company-endorsed initiatives.
In the “Driving the Energy Transition” area, we draw on our core competen-
cies and broad portfolio to support clean energy research and sustainable 
development. Our main project is “Forests of Siemens Energy and Siemens 
Gamesa,” a sustainable development initiative with the goal of mitigating 
climate change and reducing CO2 emissions. Since its inception in fiscal 
year 2021, 36 forests and approximately 168,000 trees have been planted 
by volunteers in 16 countries, contributing to the removal of 23,900 metric 
tons of CO2. In fiscal year 2024, we increased our support for our balsa tree 
forest in Ecuador by planting 21,375 new trees.An important aspect of the “Access to Education” field is, for example, to 
extend educational and research opportunities with the aim of inspiring, 
engaging, and stimulating younger generations in STEM subjects and 
deeper knowledge in the sustainable energy transition. We focus on help-
ing to train students in the use of technology through “Planet Rescuers,”  
a video game on energy and sustainability developed by Minecraft Educa-
tion. In fiscal year 2024, we also launched, together with the World Associ-
ation of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, “Girls for Green Energy,” a competition 
aimed at empowering girls to apply their STEM knowledge, skills,  
and mindsets. The initiative will take place in Taiwan, Hong Kong, and  
Singapore during the 2024/2025 school year.
As for the “Sustaining Communities” field, we are committed to, among 
other things, providing relief and recovery assistance to areas affected by 
natural disasters, particularly when the energy supply is affected. In late 
September 2023, a devastating earthquake struck central Morocco, caus-
ing widespread damage. In response, Siemens Energy, together with the 
High Atlas Foundation, launched a partnership dedicated to the recovery 
and resilience of earthquake-affected communities in the Ouarzazate 
region. The partners installed 26 solar panels and a 7.4 kW solar pump to 
ensure reliable water access for irrigation, supporting the village’s agricul-
tural activities and tree planting and benefiting approximately 500 families 
(3,000 people).
In fiscal year 2025, Siemens Energy will launch a new strategy for social 
projects for the next three to five years. This project will focus on ensuring 
that we make a maximum impact within our sphere of influence. For this 
purpose, we have assessed the impact of existing programs, gathered 
stakeholder expectations, reviewed best practices, and defined new initia-
tives that are aligned with our strategic objectives.Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 19Business resilience
We deem it important to acknowledge the risks and opportunities that 
arise from our exposure to the challenges of the current business climate, 
the accompanying disruptions, and their effects on our business. In this 
context, we aim to mitigate and adapt to climate change risks (both transi-
tional and physical) through resilient business and a sustainable portfolio.
Sustainability-related risks and opportunities
To ensure business resilience, we analyze risks and opportunities by com-
bining bottom-up and top-down approaches. The management teams of 
our organizational units identify sustainability-related risks and opportuni-
ties. With our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system, we take a net-
risk approach and aim to ensure that the Executive Board and the Super-  
visory Board are fully informed about significant risks on time.For fiscal year 2024, the following risks and opportunities with a signifi-
cant relevance to sustainability were reported within the ERM system:
Risks:
• Threat of business interruption and data leakage due to cyber attack
• Critical supply chain
• Technology/portfolio gap compared to competitors
• Requirements arising from ESG standards
• Climate change and decarbonization trend
• Market and price development (including the shift from conventional  
to renewable energy in the markets)
• Unavailability of key personnel
• Adverse environment, health, and safety (EHS) events
• Potential compliance violations
Opportunities:
• Decarbonization portfolio
• Market development
• Public and governmental funding support for investment spendingFor further information on these risks, please refer to the  Siemens Energy 
Annual Report 2024, Report on the internal control and risk management sys-
tem and material risks and opportunities . You can find a detailed description 
of climate-related risks and opportunities in our Task Force for Climate-Re-
lated Financial Disclosures (TCFD) section in the 	Annex .
We continually take steps to mitigate and reduce our sustainability-related 
risks while capturing opportunities within the organization and across the 
value chain. We aim for early identification, evaluation, and response to 
risks and opportunities that could materially affect the achievement of our 
strategic, operational, financial, compliance, and climate-related objectives.
In order to keep abreast of ongoing developments in national and interna-
tional reporting, we collaborate both internally and with external partners 
on analyzing new regulations and standards, voicing our position on them 
in cross-industry associations, and assessing their importance for and effects 
on Siemens Energy. One example of this is our participation in the Sustain-
able Finance Advisory Committee of the German Federal Government, 
which aims to turn Germany into a leading location for sustainable finance.Annex Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business The company
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 20Decarbonizing our business
Summary page 21
Customers and innovation 22
Highlight: Driving innovation in grid technologies 26
Decarbonization  282The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 21Summary page
Customers and innovation
Innovation is key to creating the future. We value co-creation and 
partner with our customers to decarbonize energy systems.
Innovation is the core of our business. Our simple, fast, and  
unified approach to R&D has three elements:62 
Net Promoter Score (NPS)¹
€ 1.2  billion 
investment in R&DFocus 
We select, prioritize,  
and commit to ideas 
from a strategic 
perspectiveAccelerate 
We accelerate ideas 
to maturity through 
dedicated channelsSustain 
We strive for  
tangible returns and 
measurable value 
creation
¹ Index measuring willingness of customers to recommend a company’s products or services to others, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).Decarbonization
Climate neutrality  
in our own operations  
by 2030Net zero  
supply chainNet zero  
products, services,  
and solutionsOur strategy to decarbonize global energy systems is based on our aspiration 
to reach net zero across the entire value chain.
Target reduction  
of Scope 1 + 2  
GHG emissions³  
by 2025:  
46%
² kg CO2e/€ PVO spent, base year 2018. ³ base year 2019. ⁴ SBTi = Science Based Targets initiative, Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa). ⁵ Target year 2030.Target reduction  
of relative Scope 3  
GHG emissions in our  
supply chain by 2030²:  
30%Status 20%
Target reduction  
of SF6 emissions⁵ 
compared to 2019:  
60%Status 72%Status 55% Status 11%
Status 100%Commitment  
via SBTi⁴:  
28%  
reduction of GHG from 
the use of sold products  
by 2030³
Target:  
100%  
share of renewable 
electricity by 2023The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 22• Company culture based on innovation for the benefit of customers 
and the planet
• R&D based on strong cooperations both within Siemens Energy  
and with external partners
• Cybersecurity management aims to ensure that our products,  
solutions, and services meet the highest demands 
The global energy sector is transforming, with many of our customers  
facing long-term, disruptive changes to their business models that benefit 
from sustainable energy supply. It remains our mission to empower our cus-
tomers in their transition. We do this by providing technologies that help 
advance affordable and reliable energy supply, including renewables, and 
by our ability to turn ideas into reality. In addition, the need for decarbon-
ization, increasingly decentralized energy production, and advancing digital-
ization are leading to more competition, more complexity, and less predict-
ability throughout the industry. As a result, we are pursuing new business 
opportunities in electrification, renewable energy, green hydrogen, grid 
modernization and resilience, energy storage, and Power-to-X technologies.
In taking this action, Siemens Energy contributes to the following SDGs: 
SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy,” SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic 
Growth,” SDG 9 “Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure,” SDG 12 “Respon-
sible Consumption and Production,” and SDG 13 “Climate Action.”Solutions that keep serving our customers
We support our customers along the entire energy value chain with our 
integrated energy technologies and our ability to connect the dots 
between our offers, regions, and industries. We bridge a wide range of 
industries and foster the transfer of know-how between them – from 
power generation to transmission and storage.
We are continually enhancing our focus on customers. Our account man-
agement system and go-to-market strategy have been fully integrated  
into our processes and system landscape. This approach delineates clear 
responsibilities for Business Areas, Regional Hubs, and Corporate Func-
tions, thereby fostering transparency, streamlining processes, and acceler -
ating our service delivery (see chapter 	Siemens Energy at a glance ).
Siemens Energy uses the Net Promoter Score (NPS) to measure customer 
satisfaction by asking the question: “How likely is it that you would recom-
mend Siemens Energy to a colleague or business partner?” In fiscal year 
2024, we conducted a total of approximately 4,300 NPS interviews and 
received an NPS result of 62 (the 2023 result was 57).¹ We are pleased with 
the clear progress demonstrated in our NPS score, which indicates 
improved customer satisfaction.The individual businesses evaluate the specific responses, follow up with 
the customers personally, and take the necessary steps to improve the  
customers’ experience (e.g., process amendments, training measures).
To foster responsible business practices in our customer projects,  
Siemens Energy has implemented an ESG due diligence approach early  
in the sales process. This helps identify and evaluate human rights and 
environmental risks in our projects, while also determining appropriate 
risk mitigation measures.
Innovation that makes a difference
The world and our customers need innovative, sustainable solutions for 
the energy systems of the future. At Siemens Energy, we are developing a 
set of criteria to screen our innovation portfolio for sustainability risks and 
business opportunities. These criteria are based on EU Taxonomy criteria, 
our focus on SDGs, and further internationally established frameworks, 
such as the Paris Agreement.
Two recent examples illustrate our innovation strategy. In October 2023, 
MVV Energy AG in Mannheim, Germany, commissioned a large heat pump 
that utilizes the Rhine River’s water to generate climate-neutral district 
heating for approximately 3,500 households. Even during winter, the ther -
mal energy from Germany’s largest river will be sufficient to meet the 
heating needs of Mannheim’s district heating network.Partnerships and collaborations play a crucial role in developing a broad range 
of innovative technologies. These provide our customers with tailor-made and 
cost-effective energy solutions while contributing to the energy transition.Customers and innovation
¹  NPS ranges from -100 to +100, subtracting % of scores between 1-6 (Detractors) from % of scores of 9-10 (Promoters), 
Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa), see  page 21Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 23Another technical solution is the first-ever hybrid grid stabilization and 
large-scale battery storage plant at Shannonbridge in Ireland. This pio-
neering project combines two technologies into a single grid connection 
to enhance grid stability and optimize the use of renewable energy. The 
proven synchronous condenser technology employs a generator with a fly -
wheel, essentially a large “rotating mass,” to provide a power reserve that 
instantly compensates for frequency fluctuations, thereby strengthening 
grid stability. Simultaneously, a large-scale battery energy storage system 
can store or release excess renewable energy as needed. With a capacity of 
around 160 MWh, this battery energy storage system can supply power to 
approximately 9,500 households for an entire day, ensuring that renew -
able energy use is maximized even when the wind is not blowing.
Strengthening the core, growing from the core, and transforming the 
future continue to be the three main aspects of the innovation strategy of 
Siemens Energy. We are continuing to develop our current fields of action, 
focusing on energy landscape transformation and decarbonization:
• Decarbonized Heat and Industrial Processes: Power-to-heat with  
electrified industrial heat, turbo heater and rotating olefins cracker,  
and industrial waste heat recovery
• Carbon and Product Circularity: Power-to-X technologies with direct 
air capture and CO2 electrolysis plus eco-resilient technologies and 
methods
• Resilient Grids and Reliability: grid digitalization, disruptive grid ele-
ments, high-density energy systems, and hybrid grids
• Condition-based Service Interventions: digital twins to enable profit-
able decarbonized operations along the lines of energy management, 
system reliability, and autonomous operation
• 24/7 Carbon-free Energy: multi-day energy storage as well as energy 
management with forecasting systems and enabling technologiesAt Siemens Gamesa, R&D is focused on developing the next generation of 
technology that will lead to improved and more cost-effective products, 
solutions, and services. Siemens Gamesa endeavors to develop reliable 
and efficient wind turbines for both onshore and offshore applications to 
reduce the Levelized Cost of Energy (LCoE) and integrate them into the 
power system to help utility customers optimize the use of renewable 
energy. We aim to ensure a fast response to market developments by utiliz-
ing modern innovation and design principles such as Agile, SCRUM, and 
Design Thinking.
As part of this, Siemens Gamesa also considers its products’ environmental 
footprint. Two prominent examples are GreenerTower, which lowers the 
CO2 footprint of the related steel production by more than 63% compared 
to conventional production, and RecyclableBlade, which was introduced in 
2021 and allows blades to be recycled at the end of their life. Customer 
demand for RecyclableBlade continues to grow: So far, more than 300 
RecyclableBlades have been sold to projects in the UK, Denmark, Germany, 
France, and the Netherlands.
To strengthen our competitiveness, we are continuously improving our 
products to reduce the LCoE and/or increase annual energy production.  
For example, Siemens Gamesa has started up production of the SG14-236. 
This new turbine, based on the proven DirectDrive design, targets the 
global offshore markets and yields 30% more power than its predecessor.
In fiscal year 2024, across all Business Areas, Siemens Energy invested 
€1,209 million in R&D (fiscal year 2023: €1,123 million). The resulting 
research intensity, defined as the ratio of R&D expenses to revenue,  
was 3.5% (fiscal year 2023: 3.6%). Additions to capitalized development 
expenses amounted to €173 million (fiscal year 2023: €190 million) in fiscal 
year 2024. Around 19,200 (September 30, 2023: 18,700) patents were held 
by Siemens Energy as of September 30, 2024. On average, we had about 
4,200 (fiscal year 2023: 4,300) R&D employees in fiscal year 2024.We have aligned our fields of action with customer interests, extending 
Carbon and Product Circularity beyond Power-to-X and the energy technol-
ogies in our 24/7 Carbon-free Energy solutions. We have identified and 
selected technologies for short-term, mid-term, and long-term research 
and development within these levers to build business in support of our 
three strategic pillars (see chapter 	Strategic focus ).
The Innovation Council meets quarterly with all Executive Board members, 
overseeing our activities and expenditures in the current fields of action, 
our technology fields, and R&D in general. The council is still dedicated to 
the former GP business. The main elements for successful innovation 
remain unchanged and are key to the implementation of our innovation 
approach:
Three elements for successful innovation
We select, prioritize, and 
commit to ideas from a 
strategic perspective
Identify
Visualize
Filter & commitFocus
Prod./tech. development
Strategic partnering
Venture buildingStart-up engagementWe accelerate ideas 
to maturity through 
dedicated channelsAccelerate
We strive for tangible 
returns and measurable 
value creationSustain
Time to impact &
business case realization
Integrate into  
operative business
Assetize as appropriateAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 24Innovation beyond our company borders
We know that we cannot achieve our mission on our own. Our external 
partnerships are valued for their potential to meet future business needs. 
This is why we strive to involve research expertise both within Siemens 
Energy and beyond.
Collaboration allows us to collect expertise, co-create new technologies, 
and broaden our stakeholder and customer base. We expand our open 
innovation ecosystems by partnering with universities, attracting external 
funding, and supporting selected ventures and start-ups. To co-create  
with customers and partner with start-ups, industrial partners, and univer -
sities, we have set up four Global Innovation Centers in Berlin, Orlando,  
Abu Dhabi, and Shenzhen. They explore early-stage R&D topics, proto-
types, and pilot applications, utilizing new skill sets, methods, and tools.
The Global Innovation Centers focus on
• accelerated innovation,
• co-creation with customers and partners, and
• closing technology gaps and accessing new business models as part of 
the newly established partnership framework.
The certification of low-carbon products, such as ammonia or hydrogen,  
is a focus within the Power-to-X area under the Carbon and Product Circu-
larity field of action. In the Innovation Center in Abu Dhabi and at test sites 
in Europe, we have demonstrated that our blockchain-based approach  is capable of tracking green molecules under market-based certification 
conditions.
Siemens Energy continues to cooperate with eight of the top 25 world-
ranked universities. Working together with scientists at top universities 
and research institutes worldwide, we aim to advance technologies that 
contribute to sustainable energy systems of the future, both in bilateral 
research and publicly funded research projects. For example, we are work -
ing with RWTH Aachen University on the H2Giga flagship project. The aim 
is to develop automated production of PEM electrolyzers to enable produc-
tion capacities in the gigawatt range. Siemens Energy is leading three sub-
projects in this consortium, which includes more than 120 partners from 
industry, research institutes, and universities.
Founded in 2020, Siemens Energy Ventures (SEV) builds, pilots with, and 
invests in startups that can help deliver a more sustainable, reliable, and 
affordable energy system for the world. Operating at the intersection of 
Siemens Energy and the startup ecosystem, SEV focuses on accelerating 
the commercialization and scale-up of startups working on cutting-edge 
decarbonization and digitalization solutions. In May 2024, SEV also com-
pleted a venture clienting pilot with U.S. startup Heat Source Energy to 
explore how waste heat can be captured and converted. Siemens Energy’s 
power transformers efficiency is greater than 99%. The pilot demonstrated 
that, when paired with the HSE Heat Engines, the transformers become 
dual-purposed, generating electricity alongside transforming the electrical 
signal. The electricity produced can then be used locally to power needs 
on site or can be scaled to aid during peak demand.The startup ecosystem continues to be important to SEV, so in June 2024, 
it partnered with Carbon13 for its latest venture builder cohort in Berlin. 
The program targets founders who can build emerging climate technolo-
gies to drive the energy transition. Our partnership is a combination of 
financial support and targeted mentoring for female climate tech founders. 
Female climate tech founders are underrepresented in climate entrepre-
neurship, with just 2% of funding from venture capital going to female-led 
startups. In this cohort, SEV is supporting seven female founders. The team 
also continues to receive external recognition, with two of our team mem-
bers being named “Emerging Leader” and “Rising Star” by the organization 
Global Corporate Venturing.
Siemens Gamesa also takes part in R&D initiatives for product and technol-
ogy development, partnering with universities, customers, competitors, 
suppliers, design consultants, and certification bodies. The aim is to iden-
tify or enhance business opportunities and create win-win situations. The 
focus countries are Denmark, Spain, Germany, the UK, France, Norway,  
the Netherlands, and India. Our University Relations Dashboard shows 
more than 50 collaborations that started or were ongoing in fiscal year 
2024. Compared to fiscal year 2023, these focused more on core compe-
tencies of our collaboration partners and specific business needs. The 
cooperations range from individual PhD programs to long-term strategic 
cooperations with leading universities in order to cross-utilize knowledge 
and gain access to talent.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 25Cybersecurity
Siemens Energy’s cybersecurity aims to protect our business operations, 
information assets, data, and our infrastructure for information technol-
ogy (IT) and operational technology (OT). In addition, its goal is to ensure 
that our products, solutions, and services meet generally accepted product 
and solution security practices. This includes the global obligation of  
compliance with our cybersecurity rules and regulations.
Cybersecurity is the responsibility of every employee and thus a collabora-
tive task, with the degree of involvement and responsibility depending on 
individual roles and functions. Cybersecurity management at Siemens 
Energy is organized according to a management system with relevant  certifications in the areas of IT security and overall cybersecurity (for 
example, ISO 27001, IEC 62443), which differ depending on site- and 
task-specific risks. It is headed by our Cybersecurity Function whose prin-
cipal tasks consist of defining and monitoring requirements and demand-
ing status reports from the Business Areas and Functions for the compa-
ny-wide implementation of cybersecurity. The Cybersecurity Function also 
provides quarterly cybersecurity status and risk reports to the Executive 
Board. In addition, the third-party cybersecurity risk management process 
(TPRM) is used to ensure that outsourced solutions and services as well as 
suppliers are assessed for cybersecurity risks throughout the vendor life 
cycle, that control gaps are addressed, and that clauses are included in 
vendor contracts.
The goal of our cybersecurity activities is to provide our customers with 
appropriately secured products, solutions, and services as well as dedicated 
cybersecurity support. All of this is based on secure internal IT and OT and 
is designed to protect all relevant assets from cyber threats, managing the 
associated risks. This is supported by the following strategic objectives:
• Business enablement: Cybersecurity enables our business to protect 
adequately against cyber threats and helps us create business oppor-  
tunities.
• Operational excellence: Cybersecurity continuously improves resilience 
through clear and holistic accountability and ownership.
• Technology & innovation: Cybersecurity develops and adopts leading 
technologies and leverages the Siemens Energy ecosystem.
In this context, key activities include executing our cybersecurity strategy, 
delivering adequate cybersecurity services for identification, protection, 
detection, defense, and response capabilities to threats and incidents, as 
well as building up cybersecurity intelligence to mitigate risks (see chapter 
	Compliance and integrity ). This enables us to lay a strong foundation for 
our cybersecurity vision: “To be the most cybersecure energy technology 
company and bring the highest value to our customers!”A strong management focus with close cross-business collaboration  
supports the integration of cybersecurity into our company and innovation 
strategy. The Innovation Orbit allows the cybersecurity organization to 
explore technology trends and ideas that are relevant. These trends and 
ideas can be rated in collaboration and can be converted into projects if 
needed. Thus, the platform is helping us get closer to a proactive cyberse-
curity strategy definition.
In October 2023, we launched Siemens Energy’s first dedicated Security 
Operations Center (SOC). This marked a significant milestone in establish-
ing a centralized organization to continuously monitor and improve 
Siemens Energy’s security posture. We have partnered with an external 
provider as our new Managed Security Services Provider (MSSP), which has 
helped us accelerate the implementation of a unified cyber approach. 
Since Siemens Energy is the target of numerous cyber threats, our SOC 
plays an important role in defending against attacks.
As part of its cyber resilience efforts, Siemens Energy has established a 
mandatory web-based training and awareness program to raise employee 
awareness. The program includes a global employee Cybersecurity Aware-
ness Month in October with panels, podcasts, workshop sessions, news 
articles, and multimedia learning content.Our cybersecurity approach
Siemens
EnergyCustomers
Suppliers Business
Infrastructure FinancialsITOTProducts
Cybersecurity training Fiscal year
2024¹ 2023²
Share of active employees that completed web-based 
training in cybersecurity80.6% 99.6%
¹  Figures including Siemens Gamesa. Siemens Gamesa’s training roll-out was not completed in fiscal year 2024.
² Siemens Energy excluding Siemens Gamesa.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Direct current circuit 
breakers make power 
grids more robust
Matthias Foehr  
Vice President Lead Engineering – Grid Solutions,  
Siemens Energy
Matthias Foehr and his team know the power of cross-cultural collabora-
tion for innovation. By combining German and Japanese engineering 
know-how, they’re paving the way for direct current (DC) power grids 
with fewer losses, fewer emissions, more affordability – and a lot more 
renewable energy. Matthias tells us how.
I’m going through my notes after a meeting with our partners at Mitsubishi 
Electric. My journey at Siemens Energy began as a working student, followed 
by a doctorate and various roles in engineering and technology consulting. 
Now, I lead a team that’s pioneering the future of power transmission, and 
my days are filled with meetings involving cross-continental collaboration 
and strategic planning to develop revolutionary new DC grid solutions.
Our goal with Mitsubishi Electric is to create complementary DC circuit 
breakers that enable the use of high-voltage direct current (HVDC) grids with 
multiple connection points. It’s a key piece in transforming renewable energy 
transmission over long distances – making it more robust and affordable.11:00 a.m. 
Tokyo, Japan
I’m going through my notes after a 
meeting with our partners at Mitsubishi 
Electric.
Page 26
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
But the technical challenges are big. Traditional point-to-point HVDC connec-
tions are common enough – creating a hub with multiple HDVC connection 
points, however, requires sophisticated DC circuit breaker technology. 
So at Siemens Energy, we’re developing ultra-fast power electronic breakers 
that interrupt current flow within less than 0.1 milliseconds, while Mitsubishi 
Electric is focusing on hybrid circuit breakers with lower power losses. Both 
systems have their advantages, but taken together they make operating 
large-scale renewable energy resources far more efficient.
For example, back in Europe, we’re planning on putting the first HVDC grid 
hub into operation by 2032, in collaboration with German transmission 
system operators – and the impact will be huge, reducing transmission 
losses by some 30 to 50% compared to an alternating current (AC) system. 
This combined approach between Siemens Energy and Mitsubishi Electric 
marks a departure from conventional industry practice, where companies 
typically develop closed systems for the market. As power grids evolve, our 
work exemplifies how collaboration and complementary technological 
solutions are more than just the sum of their parts – and it’s partnerships 
like these that are going to get us to a more sustainable world. 
I’m captivated by Japan’s ability to blend cutting-edge technology with 
traditional values – an appreciation that’s proved valuable in my trips to 
Tokyo. But the partnership also has an impact on my life outside work. In my 
free time, I’m currently learning to speak Japanese. And I’m assembling a 
LEGO model of – what else? – a Japanese castle.
Watch the video:I’m captivated by Japan’s ability to blend 
cutting-edge technology with traditional 
values – an appreciation that’s proved 
valuable in my trips to Tokyo.
Page 27
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Annex Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 28• We support our customers on their way to realizing nationally and 
internationally agreed climate goals by offering suitable solutions
• We give special attention to Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold 
products and work with our suppliers to help them reduce emissions
• With our Climate Neutral Program, we drive the decarbonization of 
our own processes and sites
The impact of climate change, coupled with the world’s rising demand for 
energy, pose an increasingly daunting challenge. Meeting increasing 
demand with conventional sources of energy would result in even higher 
emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) such as CO2. With the impact of the 
energy sector far greater than that of any other sector, our task as an 
energy company is clear: to meet the growing need for energy while tak -
ing action to shape the path to decarbonization. This poses risks and 
opportunities for our company, which we manage through our Enterprise 
Risk Management (see chapter 	Strategic focus ).
We aim to decarbonize global energy systems. With innovative solutions, 
products, and services that help reduce emissions, we support our custom-
ers in their transition to a more sustainable world. This transition is an 
immense task, and we know that we cannot do it alone. It will require all stakeholders from politics, business, and society to work together more 
closely to achieve this vision.
As part of our journey to “energize society,” we are decarbonizing our  
business activities across our entire value chain. In doing so, we are con-
tributing to the UN SDGs, in particular, SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy” 
and SDG 13 “Climate Action.”
Decarbonization is an essential part of our strategy
From our supply chain to our own operations to the use phase of our prod-
ucts, we are committed to decarbonizing our entire value chain. We have 
science-based 2030 targets, and we aspire to reach net zero across the 
value chain following the 2015 Paris Agreement.
The Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) validated the absolute GHG 
reduction targets of Siemens Energy – not only for our own operations 
(Scopes 1 and 2) but also for the use phase of our sold products (category 
11 of Scope 3). It confirmed that the following targets are in line with the 
Paris Agreement:• For Scope 1 and 2 emissions, the SBTi confirmed our commitment to a 
46% reduction by fiscal year 2025 (from a 2019 base year). Our target to 
source 100% renewable electricity by fiscal year 2023 was achieved, and 
we continue to source electricity from renewable sources.
• For our Scope 3 target, the confirmation relates to our plans to reduce 
absolute Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products by 28% by 
2030 from a 2019 base year.
The SBTi also verified the emissions reduction targets in place at Siemens 
Gamesa. Those targets will be integrated in the Siemens Energy targets.
As part of its Green Deal, the European Union (EU) has implemented a 
classification system – the EU Taxonomy – which aims to direct invest-
ments toward sustainable projects and activities. The taxonomy lays down 
criteria for the definition of sustainable economic activities, with the pur -
pose of providing companies, investors, and policymakers with consistent 
and comparable criteria for assessing which economic activities can be 
considered sustainable. For further information, please refer to  Siemens 
Energy Annual Report 2024, EU Taxonomy.Decarbonization 
Achieving climate neutrality along the entire value chain is an ambitious goal. We are aware of the 
urgency of addressing climate change and at the same time need to ensure that our decarbonization 
efforts align with our business goals and market needs.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 29The climate goals at Siemens Energy are also part of our Long-Term Incen-
tive plan and hence firmly anchored in top management compensation 
(see chapter 	Strategic focus  and the  Siemens Energy Annual Report 
2024, Compensation Report ).
To facilitate the implementation of sustainability across the company, we 
are setting up an ESG Data Management Solution (DMS). This enables us 
to collect and process ESG data and use it for strategic forecasting. The 
goal is to reduce the manual effort required for data collection, increase 
data quality, and enable internal benchmarking and steering to achieve 
our sustainability targets. In fiscal year 2024, we piloted the automated 
calculation for our Gas Services (GS) and parts of the Transformation of 
Industry (TI) Business Areas. Implementation of the DMS for the other 
Business Areas will follow in fiscal year 2025. As an added benefit, this pro-
cess will enable us to forecast future emissions and thus better manage 
them against our target (for more information, see chapter 	Strategic 
focus ).The greatest potential to reduce GHG emissions is in our products, solu-
tions, and services. To underscore our strategic focus of providing innova-
tive technology for our customers’ energy transition, we have defined fields 
of action to decarbonize our portfolio and at the same time ensure busi-
ness resilience and growth (for more information, see chapter 	Custom-
ers and innovation ).
With a focus on sustainability, we will continue to transform our portfolio 
of products, solutions, and services, and we will focus on building the com-
pany based on our three strategic pillars (see chapter 	Strategic focus ):
• Low- or zero-emission power generation
• Transport and storage of electricity
• Reducing GHG footprint and energy consumption in industrial processes
Decarbonization at our customers
To reflect the importance of our products and solutions for decarbonizing 
energy systems worldwide, at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa), we have integrated the use of our sold products into our carbon 
footprint calculation as part of the SBTi commitment to create transpar -
ency for our stakeholders. Sold products account for over 99% of our over -
all GHG emissions.
The bulk of these emissions shall be reduced through measures such as 
portfolio adjustments, fuel shifts, and emission removal technologies. We 
expect most of our reductions in emissions from sold products to happen 
after 2030, since we believe that markets and technologies still need to 
mature and scale. Some of our customers in Germany, Austria, France, and 
China are already starting to enable their plants to run on hydrogen (H2) 
rather than natural gas, starting with co-firing H2 at different shares, from 
30% to 100%. This will provide unique opportunities to our business as a 
transition enabler.We are committed to monitoring progress on climate action and reducing 
our exposure to climate-related risks. Therefore, we conducted an analysis 
of future markets based on three scenarios that include climate implica-
tions. On this basis, the climate implications of our business planning until 
2030 were evaluated for the base case scenario. We also evaluated and 
decided on emission reduction levers (for more information, see chapter 
	Strategic focus )
Our Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products have been calculated 
based on GHG Protocol standards. The main sources of the emissions are:
Products that directly consume energy (fuels or electricity) during use
• CO2e emissions generated through the combustion of fossil fuels  
(e.g., natural gas in a gas turbine): the amount of CO2e emissions va-  
ries depending on the type of fuel (e.g., natural gas, coal, hydrogen), 
the energy efficiency of the product (gas turbine, steam turbine, etc.), 
the operating hours, and the expected lifetime.
• CO2e emissions generated by large electrical consumers (e.g., motors, 
drives, pumps) or from power losses (e.g., transformers) of the used 
products.
Products that contain or form greenhouse gases that are emitted during use
• To a minor extent, the transmission portfolio might be emitting CO2e 
due to SF6 gas leakages during maintenance or operational use at cus-
tomer sites.
The calculation methodology for Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold 
products comprises the emissions from our products resulting from new 
business in fiscal year 2024 over their expected use phase and the expected 
operating hours per year. When an order is received, the respective total 
lifetime emissions are determined and reported. GHG emissions that occur EU Taxonomy Fiscal year
(%) 2024 2023
Share of revenue from EU Taxonomy-eligible activities 74.2 73.4
Share of capital expenditures from EU Taxonomy-eligible 
activities83.5 72.2
Share of operational expenditures from EU Taxonomy-  
eligible activities80.8 83.1
Share of revenue from EU Taxonomy-eligible and -aligned 
activities42.9 37.5
Share of capital expenditures from EU Taxonomy-eligible 
and -aligned activities64.7 51.0
Share of operational expenditures from EU Taxonomy-  
eligible and -aligned activities41.9 40.4Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 30during other phases of a product’s life cycle, such as in the supply chain, 
during production, or upon end-of-life disposal, are not accounted for  
or reported in Scope 3 downstream (use of sold products). Biogenic  
emissions are reported separately, outside of our Scope 3 downstream 
inventory, as required by the GHG Protocol. They occur when our custom-
ers use biomethane or biomass as a fuel (e.g., a biomass power plant  
or biomethane in a gas turbine). Service business is not included in our 
Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products. We do not disclose emis-
sions reductions resulting from efficiency increases through service 
upgrades (of power plants, for example). While not part of our Scope 3 
footprint calculations, we are aware that reducing the footprint from our 
installed base is important to reducing global CO2e emissions. To learn 
more about our calculation methodology, please refer to our annex.
Updates of our calculation parameters
As markets are changing, we aim to make sure our calculation parameters 
reflect reality. When a customer buys an H2-ready gas turbine, this is not 
proof that it will actually operate on H2. Therefore, we consider co-firing H2 
only if customers share a specific time plan and indicate to what extent 
they will use H2. From fiscal year 2023 onwards, we have applied a new 
expected lifetime of our turbines. While gas turbines have historically been 
powered by fossil fuels throughout their lifetime, this will change in the 
future. Many countries, including our most relevant customer markets, 
have committed to a net zero economy in 2050 and a net zero electricity 
system even earlier. We adapted our calculations accordingly, assuming 
the turbines we sell from now on will not be operated on unabated fossil 
fuels after 2050. The expected lifetime in the base year was 30 years; for 
fiscal year 2024, our calculations are based on 26 years. This does not 
affect the baseline (fiscal year 2019) but has an impact on the numbers for 
fiscal year 2024.
Siemens Energy’s total Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products 
during the reporting period amounted to 1.334 billion metric tons of CO2e 
(base year 2019: 1.5 billion metric tons), with energy consumption pro-
jected to total 3,683 TWh over the expected lifetime. Compared to fiscal 
year 2023, there is an increase of 0.235 billion tons in absolute numbers 
and a decrease of 11.1% compared to the base year 2019. Intensity has 
Our climate roadmap
Targets
Lever100% renewable  
electricity (SBTi¹)-46% absolute  
reduction (SBTi 
validated for 2030¹)beyond 2023 2025 2030
Climate neutrality-30% per € spent Aspiration 
to reach net 
zero along the 
value chain
 Supply chain (Scope 3 upstream)  Own operations (Scope 1 and 2)  Portfolio (Scope 3 downstream)• Coal exit • Energy efficiency & digitalization, e.g., waste heat recovery, combined heat and power
• Increasing renewables & electrification, e.g., transmission, storage, e-drives
• Fuel shift & GHG-free products, e.g., green fuels, blue portfolio
•  Emission removal technologies, e.g., carbon capture and storage 
(CCS, BECCS, DAC)
• Reducing energy consumption
• Using renewable electricity (100% by 2023)• Reducing SF6 emissions (60% by 2030)
• New mobility concepts (e.g., 100% CO2-neutral benefit cars by 2030)
• Conducting decarbonization due diligence assessments covering 75% of the CO2e emissions of the supply chain
• Implementing mitigation measures with suppliers-28% absolute  
reduction (SBTi¹)
¹ Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 31increased by 22% in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023.  
The main reason for this is an increase in order entry for all Business Areas. 
This is already an indication of how challenging it will be to reduce emis-
sions while at the same time serving our customers.
While our absolute Scope 3 downstream emissions from the use of sold 
products are the primary basis for measuring and managing Scope 3 emis-
sions, they do not fully reflect the potential positive effects of our business 
activities on climate change mitigation. With products and solutions that 
help our customers avoid emissions, we support the decarbonization of 
energy systems around the globe.To demonstrate and estimate such benefits, we are developing a company-  
wide methodology to calculate avoided emissions outside of our Scope 3 
downstream inventory.
Decarbonization of our operating processes 
Becoming climate neutral in our own operations is an integral part of the 
sustainability journey for Siemens Energy. With our Climate Neutral Pro-
gram, we aim to be climate neutral in our own operations by 2030 – with a 
focus on reducing emissions wherever possible and compensating for any 
remaining hard-to-abate emissions from then on. This includes the reduc-
tion of absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by at least 46% by 2025 from 
the base year 2019. This is an even greater ambition than our initial target 
year, which was originally 2030, as validated by the SBTi. In the reporting 
period, we achieved a reduction of 55% compared to the base year 2019, 
while our emissions increased by 9% compared to fiscal year 2023.
The strongest levers to achieve climate neutrality are:1. Using renewable electricity
Given that Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) had met its target 
of sourcing 100% of its global electricity from renewable sources in fiscal 
year 2023, we worked on increasing the amount of electricity produced at 
our own sites in the reporting year. In fiscal year 2024, Siemens Gamesa 
also converted its electricity generation to 100% renewable energies.
2. Reducing energy consumption and electrification
We have energy efficiency projects in place at various locations for build-
ings and process optimization. These include the installation of LED light-
ing with dimmers and motion sensors, the installation of smart meters to 
increase transparency, and building automation systems (e.g., heating, 
ventilation, air conditioning). The production scope includes, for example, 
an improved production process for transformers, achieved by installing 
heat recovery systems and vapor phase ovens that reduce the drying time.Our GHG emissions reduction target for Scope 3 emissions for Siemens 
Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) applies to sold products only, with the 
aim to reduce absolute Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products by 
28% by 2030 (from a 2019 base year):Scope 3 emissions reduction target 
Reduce Scope 3 
emissions of sold 
products  
by at least 28%  
 by 2030in line with the well below 
2°C trajectory
validated by the SBTiScope 3 downstream emissions¹ Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2024 2023
Total11,333,642 1,098,370
Intensity (t CO2e/ € of order intake) 0.027 0.022
¹  Includes category “use of sold products” only (well-to-tank emissions are included, biogenic emissions have 
been excluded). Siemens Gamesaʼs emissions equal zero.
Emissions from biogenic fuels1Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2024 2023
Total1137,323 323,900
¹  Reporting outside of Siemens Energyʼs Scope 3 downstream inventory.
Our GHG emissions reduction target for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for Siemens Energy  
(excluding Siemens Gamesa):Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction target  
in line with 1.5°C trajectory
-46%
2019 2025 2030validated by the 
SBTi for 2030
Climate  
neutral through 
compensationAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 323. Reducing SF6 emissions
SF6 emissions in our operations originate from products in our Business 
Area Grid Technologies. With the expansion of our Blue Portfolio, together 
with the stringent measures in our facilities, we have set a target of re-  
ducing SF6-related emissions by 60% by 2030 compared to a 2019 baseline. 
Due to our continuous work in all our operations to improve technical 
standards, increase data transparency, and raise awareness of the green-
house effect, in fiscal year 2024, we achieved a reduction of 72% compared 
to the base year and of 35% compared to fiscal year 2023.
Our SF6/F-gas-free Blue Portfolio is based on technical air insulation and 
vacuum switching technology. With its zero global warming potential,  
the portfolio enables net zero power grids.
4. New mobility concepts
Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) is aiming for 100% CO2-neu-
tral benefit cars by 2030 by implementing its car policy globally. In Ger -
many, for instance, employees receive financial support when they choose 
a battery electric vehicle, whereas they pay for conventional fuel or diesel 
cars themselves. Since this bonus/malus scheme has been introduced, 
order rates for all-electric vehicles have increased, leading to reduced 
emissions in the near future.Siemens Gamesa has implemented various projects on this lever, such as 
starting to replace forklifts worldwide with low-carbon alternatives to 
reduce the company’s Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions or the Siemens 
Gamesa Employee Mobility & Transport Benefits Policy, in combination 
with the policy to support the reduction of the company’s Scope 3  
(indirect) GHG emissions.
5. Use of biomethane
Many of Siemens Gamesa’s sites in Denmark use methane from the gas 
grid, with a minimum of 100% biomethane. In Finspång (Sweden) and  
Montreal (Canada), we use biomethane to reduce the carbon footprint  
of our combustion test sites. In Finspång, we reached a share of 14.0% bio-
methane; furthermore, we can conduct combustion tests with green 
hydrogen at the site. The hydrogen we produced locally at the site is green 
hydrogen. Montreal switched to 100% renewable natural gas for testing 
and site heating in May 2024 and achieved a biomethane share of 38.2%  
in the test gas for the entire fiscal year 2024. At our test site in Berlin-  
Ludwigsfelde, the Clean Energy Center, we have the possibility to  
perform combustion tests with green hydrogen.
6. Installation of heat pumps
The Grid Technologies Business Area has installed heat pumps at some of its 
transformer manufacturing sites to replace natural gas in drying processes. 
Due to the use of green electricity, the new drying ovens are considered  
climate neutral.
Internal CO2 pricing
CO2 pricing is a further steering mechanism for achieving climate neutrality, 
and we believe binding CO2 price signals can support our reduction target. 
These price signals encourage the use of the best technologies and busi-
ness models available. Internally, Siemens Energy implemented a policy in fiscal year 2022 to consider GHG emissions in our CapEx decisions and 
ensure that new investments support our Climate Neutral Program. To sup-
port low-carbon investment in our own operations, we are using a shadow 
price of €100 per metric ton of CO2.
In Brazil, Siemens Energy has implemented an internal carbon fee. Each 
Business Area pays a specified carbon fee into an investment fund, which is 
then used to invest in low-carbon projects. The carbon fee is designed to 
evolve based on decarbonization goals achieved over the years: from fiscal 
year 2020 to fiscal year 2022, the price was static at $40; for fiscal year 
2023, there was a +30% correction and from fiscal year 2024 onward, the 
price will be adjusted by +10% per fiscal year until fiscal year 2030. In the 
first phase, the internal carbon fee is collected from the Business Areas 
(based on their previous emissions) and reverted to the fund. The project 
campaign then collects project ideas linked to energy efficiency and sus-
tainable operations. The selected projects pitch their ideas to the Neutral 
CO2 Steering Committee to grant the investment for implementation.
Energy use and efficiency
To calculate the energy consumption of our offices, testing sites, and manu-
facturing facilities, we added primary and secondary consumption of fuels 
and electricity. In fiscal year 2024, we continued to improve the quality 
and frequency of our operational data reporting, which was achieved by 
continuous improvement of our global EHS reporting tool. Another lever 
for managing the complexity of global reporting lies in automating the  
collection of data directly from primary and secondary sources and trans-
ferring the data into our reporting tool.
In fiscal year 2024, we included fleet fuel consumption in our primary 
energy data consolidation, since this consumption is part of the vehicles 
that are controlled by our organization.Siemens Energy fleet Fiscal year
2024 2023
Number of vehicles ~7,200 ~6,600Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 33Siemens Energy’s total energy consumption during the reporting period 
was 5,933 million gigajoules (GJ), resulting in an intensity of 1.72×10-4 GJ/€ 
of revenue. Compared to fiscal year 2023, this is an increase of 8% in  
absolute energy consumption, which is mainly caused by testing of gas 
turbines and compressors and also due to the additional fleet coverage.
Over the reporting period, we collected the following data regarding  
the level of Scope 1 and 2 emissions related to business activities.  
Our reporting tool enables us to increase the collection of actuals and 
reduce coverage calculation.
Energy efficiency
We are continuously working on improving our energy efficiency, for 
example by implementing energy management systems and energy effi-
ciency measures in the areas of operation and maintenance. All our new 
buildings, expansions, and major renovations are mandated to achieve 
zero Scope 1 emissions from heating systems, utilizing 100% electrici-
ty-powered heating equipment like heat pumps or other alternative 
zero-carbon energy sources. Scope 2 emissions have been reduced by 
sourcing green electricity and acquiring district heating that meets strin-
gent standards. The overall reduction has partly been set off due to the 
shift to electrification in our manufacturing processes.
In fiscal year 2024, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased by around 9%  
or 17 metric tons, resulting in a Scope 1 and 2 intensity of 5.71×10-6 t CO2e/€ 
of revenue in 2024 compared to 5.78×10-6 t CO2e/€ of revenue in 2023.  
The rise in emissions was mainly caused by more gas turbine testing 
(mainly prototype tests) and more compressor testing (mainly factory 
acceptance tests). Additionally, minor impact has come from heating.  
Both the tests and the heating were reduced in fiscal year 2023 due  
to  government regulations because of the Russian war against Ukraine  
to save natural gas.The total energy consumption and the resulting Scope 1 and Scope 2 figures 
for fiscal year 2023 have been adjusted to correct individual location-specific 
input errors as well as to reflect the calculation and coverage of fleet data.
Share of renewable energy Fiscal year
(%) 2024 2023¹
Share of renewable electricity (of total electricity) 100 100
Share of renewable energy (of total energy) 49 54
¹ Figures for 2023 have been changed due to deviations in data calculation.Scope 1 and 2 emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2024 2023¹
Scope 1 175 160
thereof natural gas & liquid gas 89 69
thereof fuel oil, gasoline, diesel 17 16
thereof SF6 21 32
thereof fleet emissions 40 38
thereof other emissions 8 5
Scope 2 (market-based) 22 20
thereof electricity 0 0
thereof district heat 22 20
Total 197 180
Intensity (t CO2e/€ of revenue) 5.71×10-65.78×10-6
¹ Figures for 2023 have been changed due to deviations in data calculation.
Consumption from biogenic sources Fiscal year
(1,000 GJ) 2024 2023
Biogenic sources 91 63Energy consumption Fiscal year
(1,000 GJ) 2024 2023¹
Primary energy 2,500 2,031
thereof natural gas & liquid petroleum gas 1,604 1,225
thereof fuel oil, coal, gasoline, diesel 231 217
thereof biomethane 91 63
thereof fleet consumption 548 521
thereof other 16 4
Secondary energy 3,433 3,445
thereof electricity 2,842 2,893
thereof electricity from renewable sources 2,842 2,893
thereof district heating 591 552
Total 5,933 5,476
Intensity (GJ/€ of revenue) 1.72×10-41.76×10-4
¹ Figures for 2023 have been changed due to deviations in data calculation.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 34Atmospheric pollutant emissions
Other atmospheric pollutant emissions also have negative impacts on the 
environment. These include volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and 
ozone-depleting substances (ODSs). VOCs contribute to the formation of 
ozone close to the earth’s surface. Solvents, paints, and adhesives are 
examples of substances and materials that contain VOCs. ODSs are moni-
tored to comply with the Montreal Protocol, the international convention 
on the protection of the ozone layer, as well as with country-specific regu-
lations. There was a slight increase in VOCs due to increase in production 
and a decrease in ODSs due to replacement of a specific gas used for test-
ing with high ODS potential.
In calculating nitrogen oxides (NOX), we have assumed typical combustion 
conditions in relevant thermal processes.Decarbonization of our supply chain
Our suppliers are an important part of the value chain, and we encourage 
them to take climate protection measures. Emissions reduction is an  
integral part of our suppliers’ supply chain management (see chapter 
	Sustainable supply chain management ), and we keep urging them to 
increase their efforts.
We run our Carbon Reduction@Suppliers Program in cooperation with an 
external service provider offering an economic model based on an input/
output analysis that identifies the CO2e emissions of all suppliers. With the 
procurement volume and the material-country combination, the model 
calculates CO2e emissions in the supply chain based on official statistics 
and studies by the OECD, World Bank, IPCC, U.S. BEA, and the U.S. and 
European environmental agencies (spend-based method).
For Siemens Energy, we set an ambitious target within our supply chain of 
reducing our relative Scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and 
services, as well as transportation and distribution, by 30% per procure-
ment volume unit (€ spent) until 2030 based on fiscal year 2018.
The calculated upstream footprint for fiscal year 2024 is 9,238 kilotons  
of CO2e, resulting in an intensity of 0.408, which is 0.1% higher in total 
emissions but 1.3% lower in intensity compared to fiscal year 2023.To further increase transparency regarding supplier engagement for decar -
bonization in fiscal year 2024, we encouraged more than 3,400 suppliers 
– corresponding to more than 75% of the carbon footprint in our supply 
chain – to participate in our decarbonization due diligence assessment 
(DDA) and report on their measures. These assessments will be considered 
as we track progress on our targets in the future.
Scope 3 upstream emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2024 2023
Total 9,238 9,230
thereof category “purchased goods and services” 8,395 8,456
thereof category “transportation and distribution” 843 775¹
Intensity (kg CO2e/€ of purchasing volume) 0.408² 0.414
¹ 325 kilotons of the 775 kilotons of CO2e emissions were calculated using a consumption-based method.
²  Reduction compared to base year 2018: 19.6%; baseline calculation was partially extrapolated.Atmospheric pollutant emissions Fiscal year
(metric tons) 2024 2023
VOCs 326 257
ODS (in R11 equivalent) 0.0000043 0.007
NOX 69 66Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 35Responsible operations
Summary pages 36/37
Occupational health and safety 38
Highlight: Staying safe on project sites 42
Conservation of resources  44
Product stewardship  483
Sustainable supply chain management 52
Human rights 56
Compliance and integrity 58
Working at Siemens Energy 62
Highlight: Promoting inclusion and diversity 71The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 36Summary page
² Excluding construction and other waste. 
¹ Number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.Occupational health and safety 
Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees, 
partners, contractors, and suppliers is our utmost priority.
2.35 
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 
of employees and contractors¹Product stewardship
Our approach to product stewardship includes all environmental aspects, 
with a strong focus on climate change adaptation and resource efficiency.
75% 
coverage of  
portfolio by life cycle 
assessments  
(LCA)Conservation of resources
We aim to minimize our impact on the environment. Our environmental 
management systems are founded on the principles and elements of the 
international ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 standards or energy audits.
2.57  million m3 
water consumption87% 
share of recycling²Zero Harm Framework
We promote a strong Zero Harm culture that aims to prevent injuries 
and adverse effects on people and the environment.
4 
Principles6 
Behaviors8 
EssentialsThe company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 37€ 3.36  million 
total donationsSummary page
Compliance & integrity
Our company-wide zero-tolerance approach aims to 
ensure a strong culture of business ethics and compliance.
Our Business Conduct 
Guidelines are binding 
for all executives and 
employees worldwide.96%  
of employees 
trained on our 
Business Conduct 
GuidelinesWorking at Siemens Energy
Our People Agenda promotes a thriving environment, game-changing leaders, 
and a vibrant workforce.
Share of females
Training hours
13 
Total average training hours per employeein top leadership positions 
in fiscal year 2024 
24%by 2030 
30%Sustainable supply chain management
We apply stringent environmental and social standards to contribute to a 
sustainable supply chain.
€ 23.5  billion 
procurement volumeGoal is to cover
80%  
of our total 
sustainability risk score 
within five years.
Human rights
We are committed to ensuring respect for human rights 
along the value chain within our sphere of influence.
We conduct human rights due 
diligence for our customer projects.Our target in top leadership positions 
by 2025
25%Status 44.5%The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 38Occupational health and safety
• Prioritizing prevention and communication is essential to  
implementing effective health and safety systems
• Strong Zero Harm culture promoted through awareness training 
and monitoring
• Health-related training courses reflect local needs and conditions
Providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees,  
business partners such as contractors, suppliers and further partners is 
important to us. Investing in such an environment may reduce workplace 
accidents, boost employee productivity, and lower costs related to injuries, 
insurance, and legal liabilities, ultimately enhancing operational efficiency 
and the company’s reputation. With our occupational health and safety 
approach, we contribute to two SDGs: SDG 3 “Good Health and Well-Being” 
and SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth.”
Our environment, health, and safety (EHS) standards are anchored in  
all our business practices and are aligned with our EHS Principles and  
Core Responsibilities as well as our Business Conduct Guidelines, which 
principally state that all workers are free to remove themselves from  
dangerous work situations. They provide the foundation for developing 
our EHS management systems and processes.Our EHS Policy aligns with our company principles and behaviors,  
demonstrating
• strong leadership, ownership, and commitment,
• promotion of good health and safety conduct,
• commitment to continuous improvement,
• hazard identification, risk assessment, and prevention, and
• compliance with principles, standards, and behaviors.
Siemens Energy continues to build on the Zero Harm culture that recog-
nizes and reflects our societal responsibilities for environmental protection 
and the health and safety of our employees, business partners, and other 
stakeholders who may be affected by our business activities. The appointed 
Vice President EQS implements EHS governance requirements throughout 
the company and supports the Executive Board in fulfilling its EHS duties. 
The Business Area Functions EQS or EHS are responsible for supporting  
the appointed Business Area Executive Vice Presidents. At Siemens Energy, 
the EHS Policy – as part of the Integrated Management System – is further 
supported by the 	Zero Harm Framework , which aims to embed Principles, 
Behaviors, and Essentials at all levels of the organization (see chapter 
	Occupational health and safety ). In this way, the Business Areas address 
the relevant risks across the organization. To ensure global alignment, there is a formal monthly committee meeting 
in the form of the EHS Collaboration Board Call with members of the  
Corporate EHS team, the EHS Leads of the Business Areas, EHS Hub Leads, 
and the lead country EHS Leads convening to discuss EHS topics.
In addition, we organize regular environmental, health, and safety calls 
with our EHS Leads in the countries and Business Areas. We engage via a 
monthly newsletter and our internal Viva Engage community. Participation 
is encouraged through open communication, which aligns with our 
“develop locally and share globally” philosophy.
In the reporting year, we implemented a global review process of Lessons 
Learned (LLs) for all recordable incidents and high-potential near misses. 
The LLs are reviewed for completeness and applicability for other areas of 
the business. If deemed applicable, a global action is assigned via the 
reporting tool. All LLs are stored in a central repository, which is accessible 
to all employees.
Formal management systems
Alongside the EHS Policy, the ISO 45001 standard provides guidance so 
that international and local regulations, laws, standards, and practices are 
observed and complied with wherever we operate. This standard provides 
a basis for effective management, identification of potential risks, and 
internal audit and review.
Siemens Energy aims to have a certifiable management system covering 
all workforce types worldwide. Each operational business within Siemens 
Energy operates under a relevant and maintained integrated management As a responsible employer, we are committed to providing a safe place to work 
and to keeping people healthy. We see this as a precondition for a productive 
workforce and key to the resilience of our company. We systematically identify 
risks, work toward avoiding incidents, and promote employee well-being.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 39Principles
Foundation for strong and well- 
connected governance and assurance 
at all levels in our organization
Behaviors
To be demonstrated by everyone  
in our company, no matter the  
type of work
Essentials
Must be complied with by everyone 
performing this type of high-risk 
activity
Building blocks for 
local programs
Used by managers to establish a  
local Zero Harm Program based on 
work activities and the individual  
need
Safety
Environment
Contractor management  
and temporary workforce
SecurityHealthMandatoryConservation 
 of resourcesProduct stewardshipDecarbonizationZero Harm at Siemens Energy
Confined space Working at height Vehicle safetyMachine guarding 
and interlockingCranes and liftingHazardous energy 
controlElectrical safetyExplosive gases 
and vaporsRisk assessment Health STOP! Driving EnvironmentIncident
management
Aerial and 
mobile platformsEmergency
preparednessFit for work Dangerous goodsExcavations 
and trenchingEmissionsChange 
managementErgonomicsHealth on 
project sitesDropped object 
preventionFire safetyEnergy 
consumption
Mobile 
office workingPermit to work Resilient for work Offshore working Scaffold safety Natural resources Office safety Power toolsSafe from  
workplace exposurePersonal protective 
 equipmentManual handling 
of loadsRecyclabilityConformity and 
consequenceZero harm 
is achievableWe take care
of each otherWe do not
compromiseWe develop locally
and share globallyHuman Rights
Travel and  
workplace securityTraffic and  
pedestriansTemporary 
workforce Contractor  
management Waste Traveler health WeldingCrisis and disaster  
managementSimultaneous 
 operationsWater footprint Hazardous waste Build-your-ownHousekeeping Healthy for lifeForklift and 
industrial vehiclesHazardous 
substancesLadder safety Hydrogen Material complianceHydraulic  
tooling safetyPandemic 
management planHand tools Hot worksLife cycle 
assessmentsThe remaining 56 standalone systems are currently being integrated into 
the Siemens Energy multi-site certificate. The Business Areas perform inter -
nal audits within their organization to prepare and maintain certifications.During fiscal year 2024, we continued to integrate 59 standalone manage-
ment systems (with multiple external certifying bodies) into the multi-site 
certificate that covers all three standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and ISO 45001. system covering quality (ISO 9001), environment (ISO 14001), and health 
and safety (ISO 45001).Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 40Contractors and temporary labor are expected to work to the same stan-
dards as Siemens Energy employees. Contractor incidents are shared with 
the Business Areas and Global Functions for discussion, lessons learned, 
and the identification of opportunities for improvement. We also hold 
direct meetings with our contractors and suppliers to discuss high-impact 
and high-potential incidents and improvement opportunities.
In fiscal year 2024, further improvements in the quality of our contractor 
management approach included developing the Zero Harm engagement 
app to cover onboarding and induction of temporary labor into the local 
working environment. This is supported by a new Zero Harm building block 
for temporary labor. We also reviewed the general EHS requirements for con-
tractors and developed new instructions that encompass all Business Areas.
Health and safety culture provides the foundation 
Siemens Energy is committed to protecting the environment and manag-
ing the health, safety, and well-being of its employees, partners, and other 
stakeholders who may be affected by its business and operational activi-
ties. That is why our priority is a strong Zero Harm Framework, which is 
driven by our principles, essentials, behaviors, and building blocks (see 
graphic on Zero Harm).
This framework sets minimum expectations, placing responsibility on each 
local manager to develop and implement the principles, discuss elements 
that will be included in their program with their teams, and then reinforce 
them in the course of the daily work.
With our global EHS reporting tool, we can monitor concerns raised  
by employees, with each case treated locally according to our reporting 
process. Siemens Energy utilizes a new global software solution covering 
environmental, health, safety, security, and product safety incidents. 
Siemens Energy has expanded its Zero Harm Day to Zero Harm Week.  
The event started on Earth Day on April 22 and concluded on World Day  
for Safety and Health at Work on April 28, 2024, with a variety of formats 
to engage with such as webinars, local events, and skill training. Siemens Energy is now in year two of its Champions League competition. 
Teams that are committed to living Zero Harm best practices share their 
outstanding initiatives. We saw a 76% increase in participation in fiscal 
year 2024. The winners were announced on the last day of Zero Harm 
Week and shared their excellent practices with colleagues. 
In addition, we have implemented a training platform that provides employ -
ees with the opportunity to develop individual and team-based EHS skills 
and knowledge to meet regulatory requirements associated with their job 
roles and the minimum standards established by the Zero Harm Frame-
work. EHS training has been aligned to provide a core set of courses directly 
corresponding with the EHS elements of the Zero Harm Framework.
Health and safety performance under review
To increase the effectiveness of safety risk management at manufacturing, 
service, and project sites, Siemens Energy completed internal occupational 
safety (OS) audits related to a location’s risk factors on site and across orga-
nizational levels. In fiscal year 2024, the assurance audit team shared with 
the EHS organization over 70 best practices found at various sites, which 
other locations shall use to improve their safety systems. OS audits and their 
results will continue to be quantified, providing details for optimization 
measures, lessons learned, and continuous improvement recommendations.
Preventing incidents
Health and safety performance at Siemens Energy is managed via internal 
processes that define the requirements for the classification, recording, 
and investigation of incidents.
In fiscal year 2024, the incident rate for our temporary labor was more than 
double the incident rate for Siemens Energy’s own employees on a global 
scale. We therefore pay special attention to the onboarding of temporary 
labor and have created a new building block to set minimum standard 
rules. One specific rule that will be enforced at all factories worldwide as a 
first step is a formal EHS induction for temporary labor, specific to the  
location at which they are working. A predefined onboarding question-
naire as well as a mobile app were created for this purpose.In fiscal year 2024, our Business Area Siemens Gamesa continued to use 
the Proactive KPI Index to monitor and promote expected safety-related 
behaviors across the business (refer to the Sustainability Report 2023, 
chapter “Occupational Health and Safety,” for details on the calculation). 
The KPI is made transparent via a dashboard and regularly discussed at 
management meetings to reinforce the expected actions and behaviors. 
This helps identify areas with excellent safety performance and others 
where the safety culture may need to be improved.
Our focus is on the Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) and serious incidents, 
details of which we share with the Executive Board on a monthly basis. At 
the end of the fiscal year, the overall TRIR of employees excluding contrac-
tors stood at 2.33, and the LTIFR of employees excluding contractors at 1.28.
Our key objective is to prevent incidents, including high-consequence inci-
dents, during the performance of work activities. The Zero Harm Framework 
supports our efforts to reduce the severity of injuries. In fiscal year 2024, we 
had 13 high-consequence work-related injuries (fiscal year 2023: 8).
Regrettably, we also had six work-related fatal accidents (fiscal year 2023: 
two). Three fatalities were related to an explosion, one person died from an 
electric shock, one person was killed in a car accident while on a business 
trip, and one person was crushed by a moving platform. Each serious event 
or fatal accident causes grief for families, friends, and colleagues. As a com-Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)1Fiscal year
2024 2023
TRIR of employees² 2.33 2.61
TRIR of contractors³ 2.42 3.03
TRIR of employees & contractors 2.35 2.67
¹  Total Recordable Injury Rate: number of recordable injuries (TRI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.  
Recordable injuries are accidents that result in lost time, restricted work, or medical treatment.
² Incl. temporary labor; excl. contractors.
³  Contractors are service providers carrying out work activities in a work environment under the control of  
the company. Siemens Gamesa captures all contractors; Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa)  
captures contractors in projects with a volume >€5 million and classified as complex during the bid phase.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 41pany, we thoroughly investigate and assess the circumstances and conse-
quently derive measures to prevent such accidents from happening again.
We are vigilant that employees are not exposed to occupational illnesses or 
work-related diseases while performing work activities. The Zero Harm 
building block “Safe from Workplace Exposure” at Siemens Energy is there-
fore an essential part of our Zero Harm Framework. This building block pro-
vides a set of rules to eliminate exposure hazards in the work environment.
Risk assessment is a key Zero Harm behavior. Each employee is required to 
identify hazards and carry out risk assessments for all work activities and 
workplaces to identify and implement controls. Employees are not to start 
a work activity without an approved risk assessment and an understanding 
of the controls.
Promoting health and resilience
Within the overall management approach for occupational health and 
well-being, prevention is our key strategy for the promotion of employee 
health. Each country organization, in cooperation with the relevant Busi-
ness Areas at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa), is required to 
identify and implement health management programs that focus on healthy 
working and healthy employees – reflecting local needs and conditions.
As part of the Zero Harm Framework at Siemens Energy, managers are 
required to establish programs and activities covering the following 
health-related building blocks:
• Fit for Work
• Health on Project Sites• Healthy for Life
• Pandemic Management Plan
• Resilient for Work
• Safe from Workplace Exposure
• Traveler Health
These include training courses on topics such as exercise, nutrition, stress, 
physical well-being, psychological health, and work-life balance.
We also carried out our annual global health management survey in fiscal 
year 2024, which provides transparency on the health management status 
in each country as well as areas for improvement. This includes establish-
ing whether defined health-related building blocks have been implemented 
by the countries. Furthermore, Siemens Energy continued its global initia-
tive on mental health with the motto “Mental health is a Team Purple prior -
ity – Let’s make it better!” In line with the set strategy, we introduced a 
mental health app, a specific SharePoint, and a Viva Engage community.
Siemens Gamesa runs a centralized health management program  
combined with initiatives deployed at regional levels, including team  
challenges and virtual sports clubs. This Business Area provides corporate 
initiatives covering the same health priorities and topics as the rest  
of Siemens Energy through the Health at Heart Pathway. In addition, 
Siemens Gamesa has developed a strategy based on the advice of its  
Mental Health Scientific Advisory Board and measures different global 
health KPIs, such as stress levels and trends, in its global health surveys. 
Every three years, the Business Area carries out a global psychosocial  
risk assessment – the last one in fiscal year 2023 – and implements  
action plans to mitigate the risks. There is a training program in place for 
managers to address psychosocial risks and create effective measures.
When considering global approaches, EQS (Environment, Health, Safety, 
Quality, and Security) specialists (including mental health experts) from 
the countries in which Siemens Energy operates collaborate as a virtual 
team with dedicated key members.Occupational illnesses1Fiscal year
2024 2023
Occupational illness frequency rate2 of employees³ 0.29 0.25
1  Illnesses declared as an occupational illness and recognized by an external authority/insurance company  
or by a physician.
2  Number of occupational illnesses x 1,000,000/work hours performed.
3 Incl. temporary labor; excl. contractors.Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)1Fiscal year
2024 2023
LTIFR of employees² 1.28 1.34
LTIFR of contractors³ 1.27 1.70
LTIFR of employees & contractors 1.27 1.40
¹  Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: number of lost time injuries (LTI) x 1,000,000/work hours performed.  
LTIs are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work.
² Incl. temporary labor; excl. contractors.
³  Contractors are service providers carrying out work activities in a work environment under the control of  
the company. Siemens Gamesa captures all contractors; Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa)  
captures contractors in projects with a volume >€5 million and classified as complex during the bid phase.
High-consequence injury rate1Fiscal year
2024 2023
High-consequence injury rate of employees & contractors20.052 0.033
¹  Serious work-related personal life-threatening or life-altering injuries as well as injuries with more than  
180 days of lost/restricted work. Excluding fatalities.
²  Number of high-consequence work-related injuries x 1,000,000/work hours performed. Incl. temporary  
labor and contractors.Fatalities1Fiscal year
2024 2023
Employees 2 0
Contractors 4 2
Total 6 2
1  Excluding cases beyond Siemens Energy’s influence (e.g., force majeure, third-party violence) or outside  
of Siemens Energyʼs scope of responsibility. Includes all fatalities.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
We prioritize people  
to achieve Zero Harm
Alexandre Costa  
Work Safety Technician,  
Siemens Energy Brazil
His job saves lives. Alexandre Costa has spent decades working as a 
safety technician, among dangerous chemicals, flammable gases, and 
cranes lifting massive machines. The key to accident prevention?  
Alexandre tells us why the company always focuses on people first.
I’ve just started the late afternoon-to-night shift, which means I wake up 
around 4 p.m. every day and go to bed around 8 a.m. – with a “lunch” break 
at 1 a.m. We’re dealing with heavy machinery and hazardous, fire-prone 
gases like acetylene and oxygen, so carefully planning ahead is absolutely 
essential.
For over two decades, I’ve been working as a work safety technician, and  
in all these years I’ve taken part in building and assemblage projects for a 
whole range of industries – chemical plants, refineries, thermal power 
stations. In all those industries the policies and protocols around safety 
culture are important, of course, but the really crucial thing is focusing on 
people first. If you lose sight of what is needed to protect them, accidents 
are more likely to happen.
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024
Page 4218:00 p.m. 
Cañuelas, Argentina
I’ve just started the late afternoon-to-
night shift, which means I wake up 
around 4 p.m. every day and go to bed 
around 8 a.m. – with a “lunch” break 
at 1 a.m.The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
My current project involves servicing a thermal plant here in Cañuelas, 
Argentina, where our 45-day deadline includes disassembling major equip-
ment, doing maintenance work, replacing parts as needed – and then 
reassembling everything again. My job is accident prevention and risk anal-
ysis, collaborating with the whole team in three different places: at the heart 
of the plant where the main turbine is located and in two support and 
storage areas that are a little under two kilometers apart from each other. 
For me, one of the most important tasks of the day is our daily safety 
dialogue (DSD), when we discuss specific situations and the risks associated 
with them, always in partnership with supervisors and field engineers. In our 
line of work, small oversights can lead to huge risks and even severe acci-
dents. So we need to take every task and the correct use of every safety item 
into account. 
Since I’m Brazilian, from Rio de Janeiro, in Argentina I also have to consider 
linguistic and cultural differences during our DSDs and focus on solid, clear 
communication. Based on my experience, accidents occur at work two to 
three hours after a task has started, the time when people become habitu-
ated to an activity. The DSDs happen just before that critical window of time, 
making sure everyone pays more attention to their own and others’ safety.
But the most challenging part of prevention work is dealing with people’s 
priorities. Everyone has deadlines and productivity schedules, and at times 
this makes people forget to take care of the most precious assets: them-
selves and those around them. With the DSDs, we can help them take a step 
back and not forget that.
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024
Page 43
Watch the video:São Paulo, Brazil
For me, the most important task of the day 
is our daily safety dialogue (DSDs), when 
we discuss specific situations and the risks 
associated with them, always in 
partnership with supervisors and field 
engineers.The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 44Conservation of resources
Meeting environmental management standards
With our Zero Harm Framework, we aim to meet the increasing environ-
mental protection requirements imposed by both regulators and custom-
ers. We are guided by the logic embedded in the ISO 14001 environmental 
management standard to identify environmental aspects of our business 
operations and minimize or mitigate negative impacts. Our main objec-
tives focus on improving environmental performance in the areas of 
energy, air, water, and waste, including:
• Increasing energy efficiency by using energy management systems  
at our sites
• Controlling air-pollutant emissions by replacing ozone-depleting  
substances and reducing solvents
• Assessing climate change risks, including water risks, and implementing 
local mitigation and prevention strategies
• Reducing waste
• Achieving zero waste to landfill and a recycling rate higher than 90%  
by 2030• Environmental management is embedded in our processes as  
part of the Zero Harm Framework
• Increased waste management ambition: Targeting zero landfill 
waste and achieving a recycling rate of over 90% by 2030
• Climate change risks have been assessed for major locations  
and mitigation measures are being implemented
• Increased internal transparency with more automated reporting  
on metrics
Global environmental challenges are increasing rapidly: climate change, 
biodiversity loss, water shortages, increased waste generation, and other 
factors lead to more complex environmental requirements and demand 
intensified approaches toward a circular economy.
At Siemens Energy, our goal is to minimize our impact on the environment 
by, for example, managing freshwater withdrawal and emissions, protect-
ing biodiversity, and reducing waste. With our Integrated Management 
System (IMS), we aim to comply with applicable laws, regulations,  
and stakeholder expectations. Through our environmental protection  
measures and management systems, we contribute to SDG 6 “Clean Water and Sanitation,” SDG 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy,” SDG 12 “Responsible 
Consumption and Production,” and SDG 13 “Climate Action.”
Our IMS is based on the principles of the international standards ISO 9001, 
ISO 14001, ISO 45001, and ISO 50001 or energy audits as per national legis-
lation. These are either certified or aimed at implementing a certifiable 
management system (see chapter 	 Occupational health and safety ).  
An objective of these systems is, for example, to continuously improve 
environmental performance, lower environmental impacts, and increase 
energy efficiency (for more information on energy consumption and  
emissions, see chapter 	Decarbonization ).
As part of our EHS management system in larger projects, we use environ-
mental aspect assessments to evaluate potential impacts related to our busi-
ness activities. They include impact severity and probability, providing infor -
mation for management action and improvement opportunities as well as for 
monitoring compliance with globally applicable basic requirements such as 
the IFC World Bank Guidelines. We use our company-wide Idea Management 
program 3i to foster ideas, initiatives, and innovations that contribute to 
improving EHS aspects and can result in energy savings and cost reductions.We aim to use natural resources responsibly and avoid negative environmental 
impacts in all our operations and projects. By applying circular economy principles, 
we are shaping the future of resource management.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 45Climate change risk assessment
As climate change progresses, we assess the risks that could impact our 
business. Climate-related risks such as flooding, extreme temperatures,  
or hurricanes may cause an evacuation of personnel, disruptions of supply 
chains, or damage to facilities. We have conducted physical climate change 
risk assessments for 95 major manufacturing locations according to size 
and energy consumption to evaluate changes in physical climate parame-
ters, plan resources, and manage climate risks. This baseline assessment is 
used to identify direct financial impacts and to pinpoint and quantify  
mitigation measures as part of the local management systems. We also 
perform local risk assessments to evaluate EHS impacts and define emer -
gency response measures at selected locations. In addition, we are  
working on developing instructions to analyze levers during product 
design that can reduce the exposure to climate change risks.
Resources management
Resource management and circularity drive cost savings, enhance supply 
chain resilience, and create new revenue streams by maximizing the value 
of materials and reducing dependency on finite resources. In our approach, 
we pay particular attention to the topics of waste and water management.
Waste
Effective waste management reduces operational costs, minimizes envi-
ronmental liabilities, and enhances brand reputation by promoting sus-
tainability and regulatory compliance. The environmental relevance of 
waste depends upon the type of waste in question and the methods used 
to dispose of it. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste fractions are divided 
into recyclable waste and waste for disposal. Waste from construction or 
demolition work is reported separately, since this type of waste material 
arises independently from production.
We have categorized waste across all global reporting locations, and this is 
reflected in the environmental reporting tool for all of Siemens Energy 
(see chapter 	Decarbonization ).Our waste intensity in fiscal year 2024 was 4.47×10-6 metric tons per € of 
revenue. The total amount of waste remained at the same level compared 
to the previous year and the intensity decreased by 9%.
To achieve “Zero Waste to Landfill” we have set the ambitious goal of send-
ing no waste to landfills and recycling more than 90% of all waste by 2030, 
excluding waste originated from remediation and construction.
Waste Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons) 2024 2023¹
Non-hazardous waste 122 122
Hazardous waste 17 24
Construction waste 14 6
Total 154 154
Waste intensity (metric tons/€ of revenue) 4.47×10-64.94×10-6
1  In fiscal year 2024, the categories of Siemens Gamesa were aligned with the rest of Siemens Energy, resulting  
in the other waste categories being removed, which amounted to 1,850 metric tons in fiscal year 2023.Waste recycling and disposal¹
(1,000 metric tons)
thereof  
reused waste  
8Total recycled waste122  (120)
Waste for disposal27  (31)
thereof  
recycled waste  
94
thereof  
recovered waste  
20149 (151)
Total
Figure for previous year in brackets. 
1 Excluding construction and other waste.Fiscal year 2024
Recycling Fiscal year
(%) 2024 2023
Share of total recycling¹ 87 82
thereof recycled 67 67
thereof reused 6 1
Share of recycled hazardous waste 46 34
¹ Excluding construction and other waste.Waste recycling and disposal¹ Fiscal year
(in 1,000  metric tons) 2024 2023¹
Waste for disposal 27 31
Total recycled waste 122 120
thereof recycled waste 94 98
thereof recovery 20 20
thereof reuse waste 8 2
Total 149 151
¹ Excluding construction and other waste.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 46Water
Responsible water management continues to be important for Siemens 
Energy. We aim to carefully manage the use of fresh water in our opera-
tions as well as the impact of our projects on water resources in the  
surrounding areas. At Siemens Energy, water is mainly used for cooling 
and sanitary purposes.
Water risks are analyzed as part of the climate change risk assessment, 
making it easier to identify sites in high water risk areas. This supports 
locations in planning and implementing effective water management 
strategies, considering factors such as water stress, water pollution, and 
flooding. Our locations aim to reduce water usage, consumption, and 
related risks through their IMS or by means of individual mitigation plans.At Siemens Energy, the volume of water abstracted over the reporting 
period equates to 2.57 million cubic meters (fiscal year 2023: 3.25 million 
cubic meters). Water intensity in fiscal year 2024 was 7.44×10-5 cubic 
meters per € of revenue. This is a decrease of 21% in absolute water con-
sumption and 29% in water intensity compared to fiscal year 2023.  
One factor that influenced the decrease is the greater transparency that 
we have achieved by implementing our global EHS reporting tool, as well 
as discontinued operations at several locations.
Wastewater from our facilities and manufacturing processes amounts to 
2.47 million cubic meters (fiscal year 2023: 3.27 million cubic meters). 
Wastewater intensity in fiscal year 2024 was 7.17×10-5 cubic meters per €  
of revenue. This is a decrease of 25% in absolute wastewater and 32%  
in wastewater intensity compared to fiscal year 2023.Water consumption Fiscal year
(million cubic meters) 2024 2023
Fresh water use 2.29 2.73
thereof ground and surface water for cooling (returned  
to receiving water body, chemically unchanged,  
but warmed)0.45 0.50
Other water 0.28 0.52
Total 2.57 3.25
Water intensity (cubic meters/€ of revenue) 7.44×10-51.04×10-4Wastewater Fiscal year
(million cubic meters) 2023 2022
Wastewater from employee facilities 1.12 1.45
Wastewater from manufacturing processes 0.20 0.20
Other (incl. losses) 0.29 0.24
Conditioned cooling water discharged as wastewater 0.86 0.65
Total wastewater without chemically unchanged 
cooling water1.61 2.60
Cooling water (returned to receiving water body,  
chemically unchanged, but warmed)0.45 0.53
Total 2.47 3.27
Wastewater intensity (cubic meters/€ of revenue) 7.17×10-51.05×10-4Water consumption
2.6
2.3
0.5Total
Fresh water use(million cubic meters)
thereof ground and surface 
water for coolingFiscal year 2024Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 47Biodiversity
Biodiversity supports ecosystem resilience, which can mitigate environ-
mental risks and enhance long-term operational stability for energy infra-
structure and our supply chains. Siemens Energy uses natural resources 
(such as water and fuels) at its offices, production facilities, and project 
sites. Local ecosystems, habitats, and species could be adversely affected 
by this interaction with the environment.
Therefore, the conservation of biodiversity is integrated into our environ-
mental management systems as well as into instructions for both manu-
facturing locations and project sites to minimize the negative impacts of 
our operations.
There is also a product-related aspect to consider. We analyze and translate 
the requirements identified in our customers’ environmental impact assessment studies as well as in regulations and standards, incorporating 
them into our project-specific EHS plans and site instructions in order to 
manage and reduce negative impacts to a minimum.
As part of our societal engagement activities, our employees have identi-
fied many local biodiversity initiatives worth supporting. Siemens Energy 
employees can lend their support to projects such as tree plantings, hives 
for wild bees, roof greening measures, and the creation of nature pools.
Environment-related incidents
Environmental incidents resulting from our business activities, including 
product-related incidents, may cause damage to our natural environment 
and surroundings.
During fiscal year 2024, there were no significant environmental incidents 
related to Siemens Energy (fiscal year 2023: one).Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 48Product stewardship
Managing environmental risks 
As part of our comprehensive product stewardship approach, we prioritize 
managing environmental risks. Our approach is based on the minimum 
standards set by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) for projects 
reflected in our EHS plans, internal EHS guidelines, specific EHS processes 
and checklists for product development, and other ESG criteria from  
external stakeholders.
Our risk management includes an ESG due diligence approach for  
customer projects, and we screen our products, projects, and services 
against a list of relevant ESG criteria. Training will be provided to increase 
awareness and expertise regarding these criteria.
This ESG risk management combines a due diligence and a risk mitigation 
process. The questionnaire used is also part of our approach to implement 
the requirements of the EU Taxonomyʼs DNSH criteria (DNSH: Do No  
Significant Harm). We have identified all relevant existing processes at 
both the corporate and Business Area or location level and completed the 
mapping of all requirements. In particular, our 	Zero Harm Framework  
with its underlying building blocks serves as a reference for implementing 
the requirements (see chapter 	Responsible operations ).• Developing circularity potentials and concepts for our products
• Focusing on eco-design to optimize overall environmental impact
• Implementing EU Taxonomy criteria based on existing processes
As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, our product stewardship activi-
ties aim to contribute to the achievement of the UN SDGs, especially SDG 
12 “Responsible Consumption and Production,” which seeks to couple  
economic growth and development with sustainable consumption and 
production patterns. Our products’ design is aimed at minimizing adverse 
effects that may result from their production, use, or treatment at the  
end of their life.
Our product stewardship approach includes all environmental aspects with 
a strong focus on climate change mitigation, resource conservation, and 
efficiency – and therefore circularity. We consider all life cycle phases, 
including product development and design, manufacturing, operation, 
service, and end of life. Measures and methods include eco-design criteria 
for product development, life cycle assessments (LCAs), environmental 
product declarations (EPDs), component upgrades, and lifetime exten-
sions, as well as recycling at the end of product life. By analyzing our prod-
ucts, solutions, and services according to business needs such as customer requirements, quantifying their impacts, and determining areas for 
improvement, we are building the foundation for deriving and implement-
ing measures that contribute to a circular economy.
Product stewardship at Siemens Energy follows the principles of circularity 
and the key standards of the ISO 14000 series, with individual approaches 
for each Business Area. The approaches are centrally supported by the 
respective global EQS functions.
Product stewardship is also an integral part of our Zero Harm Framework 
(see also chapter 	Occupational health and safety ). At Siemens Energy, 
product stewardship is covered by the Zero Harm building blocks “Material 
Compliance” and “Life Cycle Assessments.” The Material Compliance  
building block provides guidance on the management, analysis, and  
tracking of restricted and regulated substances in products, services,  
and solutions. The LCA building block defines the process for evaluating 
the environmental impacts of our products, systems, and materials over 
the entire life cycle. A detailed LCA process description is available, provid-
ing instructions to ensure a harmonized approach across the company that 
is in keeping with the ISO-standardized methodology. See also chapter 
	Circular economy .When designing and producing our products, we take quality, environmental, health, and safety criteria 
into account at every stage of the products’ life cycle. We aim to minimize any negative environmental 
or social impact of our products.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 49During project execution and the delivery of products and services, we  
utilize available environmental impact assessments, or alternatively the 
global IFC EHS guidelines, to identify measures regarding environmental 
protection. This encompasses energy consumption, energy efficiency 
(including our own GHG footprint), air emissions, noise, water conser-  
vation, waste management, and hazardous materials management.  
Furthermore, our integrated management approach includes the identifi-
cation and management of physical, chemical, and radiological hazards at 
our locations or project sites.
We collaborate with suppliers, contractors, customers, and other interested 
parties to meet product-related environmental key business requirements 
whenever possible. In each Business Area, customer requirements and 
related resource requirements are continuously assessed, and coordinators 
for product-related topics have been appointed. We are working on several 
pilot projects to further increase transparency on additional Scope 3 
upstream categories, combining location-specific views and product-specific 
accounting to establish a solid baseline and identify further reduction poten-
tial. The supplier contract conditions have been updated and the related 
topics are part of ongoing exchanges with suppliers to create awareness 
and prepare for any additional in-depth data provisions necessary.
Circular economy
Adopting a circular economy model can help increase profitability by 
reducing resource dependency, cutting waste, and unlocking new market 
opportunities through sustainable product innovation and lifecycle exten-
sion. It is also a means of reducing GHG emissions. To this end, we need to 
understand the impacts of our products and solutions. We use life cycle 
assessments as a tool to assess measures following “R” strategies such as 
reduce, repair, or recycle, with the aim of increasing the circularity of our 
products and solutions.In our wind power business, RecyclableBlades – the worldʼs first wind tur -
bine blade that can be recycled at the end of its life cycle – are an impor -
tant step toward the goal of making turbines fully recyclable by 2040.  
The first RecyclableBlades are operating at RWE’s German offshore wind-
farm Kaskasi and at Vattenfall and BASF’s offshore windfarm Hollandse 
Kust Zuid in the Netherlands. Agreements have been made to supply  
RecyclableBlades for EDF Renewablesʼ offshore windfarm in France as well 
as RWEʼs offshore windfarm in the UK, the Sofia project, and the Danish  
project Thor, as well as a first customer project for onshore wind turbines 
in Finland. In addition to the existing supplier, we have qualified another 
resin supplier for RecyclableBlades. GreenerTower is another innovation 
that increases the use of recycled steel in the towers of wind turbines  
(see chapter 	Customers and innovation ).
We continued identifying circularity potentials with our research collabora-
tion on the Circular Energy Transition funded by the German Federal  
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Action, which included a doctoral 
thesis on the identification of circularity potentials based on Life Cycle 
Assessments. as well as several conferences at which we presented and 
discussed our findings.
Life cycle assessments and environmental product declarations
We have adopted a sustainable management approach by conducting life 
cycle assessments (LCAs) and publishing environmental product declara-
tions (EPDs). The LCA and EPD approach is managed globally by the EQS 
Function and is closely linked to organizational teams dealing with prod-
uct-related environmental protection. We have developed and published 
our internal LCA instructions to further standardize and align our approach 
and respond to customer requests. LCA-related background information, 
like an overview of standards and links to tools and tutorials, is available 
on a dedicated LCA and circular economy intranet site.The results from LCAs are used to
• identify opportunities to improve environmental performance in all life 
cycle stages, from the design of the product to its end of life – for exam-
ple, improving material selection and resource consumption, optimizing 
manufacturing processes, and considering further circular economy 
aspects throughout all life cycle stages of a product; and
• communicate environmental performance and improvement potential 
to internal and external stakeholders.
To increase transparency on the environmental performance of our  
products and facilitate dialogue with our customers and stakeholders, 
Siemens Energy uses EPDs that are based on ISO 14021 for Type II product 
declarations and labels that address environmentally relevant information 
for customers, mainly based on full-scale LCAs. When requested, we verify 
our LCAs externally.
We continuously review our LCAs and EPDs. The table below provides a 
summary of the number of LCAs (full-scale and screening) and EPDs.  
The number of LCAs increased in fiscal year 2024 because all Business 
Areas continuously work to cover more of their products with LCAs as cus-
tomer requests increase.
LCAs and EPDs Fiscal year
2024 2023
LCAs (no.)1363 346
Portfolio coverage by full-scale LCAs (%)275 73
EPDs (no.) 263 251
¹ Full-scale LCAs adopt a comprehensive approach, covering the environmental impacts over the entire lifecycle.
2  The share of full-scale LCAs is calculated based on the business segment structure. One business segment is 
considered to be one portfolio element. All portfolio elements containing material products have been deter -
mined to be relevant for this performance indicator. If full-scale LCAs are available for products of a portfolio 
element, this portfolio element is considered to be covered. The share represents the percentage of covered 
portfolio elements relative to the total number of relevant portfolio elements.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 50To make our LCA knowledge tangible for internal and external stakehold-
ers, we use our LCA-based Siemens Energy EcoTransparency application, 
which allows us to visualize the environmental impact of our products and 
solutions throughout the entire life cycle. By identifying hotspots in the life 
cycle and comparing developed improvement scenarios, we can highlight 
improvements and therefore respond to customer requests. Our sales team 
uses the application to help our customers understand the environmental 
footprint of the products they order and make decisions accordingly. At the 
same time, our product designers use it to integrate circularity into our 
products by identifying areas for improvement. New features added over 
the last year include a circularity function that highlights suitable circular 
economy measures in the life cycle of the product.
Eco-design
To enhance the circularity of our products from the outset and ensure com-
pliance with environmental regulations, we place a particular emphasis on 
comprehensive eco-design concepts. Our eco-design approach serves  
several purposes including EU Taxonomy requirements. Therefore, our 
approach has been aligned with the structure of the EU Taxonomy’s DNSH 
criteria. The eco-design decisions we make today need to consider future 
legal and EHS requirements as well as the implications of resource scarcity.
The Business Areas prioritize the review and analysis of our products, 
based on customer and market requirements. The EcoDesign instructions 
have been finalized and pilot projects for the EcoDesign questionnaire  
are underway. The results of the detailed eco-design evaluation will be 
incorporated into the product lifecycle management (PLM) process and 
considered during the product development and improvement stages.Material compliance
A large variety of materials and substances are used in our products,  
manufacturing, and services. Only a few are subject to closer scrutiny 
(e.g., chromium, lead, PFAS, etc.). The nature and quantity of substances 
and materials used in products are becoming increasingly relevant, espe-
cially if parts of the product or materials are being reused or recycled.  
Furthermore, the European Commission has published a list of critical raw 
materials that is subject to regular review and updates. Materials and  
substances transparency is one of the key enablers for a circular economy, 
as are the upcoming EU initiatives for sustainable product design and the 
digital product passport (DPP), among others. We have begun to integrate 
all these requirements into our processes.
We aim to comply with all legal requirements, such as REACH (Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), RoHS (Restric-  
tion of Hazardous Substances), our SAP systems, and similar international 
requirements. Siemens Energy uses globally standardized materials and 
substance registers for restricted and declarable substances and products. 
The updated ECHA list identifies any substances that need to be declared 
for each product (ECHA = European Chemicals Agency). As part of the 
Siemens Energy supplier assessment and qualification process, suppliers 
are required to identify whether any of their products or components con-
tain substances that need to be declared according to the specific legisla-
tion. Suppliers then need to provide a detailed declaration should any such 
substances be used within their design and manufacturing activities.
We encourage our suppliers to use the industry substance management 
platform BOMCheck to share declarations for Substances of Very High  Concern (SVHCs) and link this information to our IT systems. In this way, 
we can actively manage risks related to substance restrictions. The imple-
mentation of the Substances of Concern in Products (SCIP) reporting 
requirement, a database established under the EUʼs Waste Framework 
Directive that registers products containing SVHCs, has been set up in a 
Sharepoint for data collection.
Furthermore, all our Business Areas have developed a cross-functional 
material compliance approach in cooperation with the Procurement 
department, and implementation is ongoing. We achieved increased  
transparency regarding substances in our products during supplier qualifi-
cation. The approach focuses on full bill-of-materials (BOM) data provision 
with substance management. The coverage of the value chain has  
progressed. We have begun modelling the new data structure in our new 
SAP system to cover more material compliance aspects and improve  
information regarding product compliance. For recent projects, we have 
evaluated BOMs for compliance with REACH Lists of Declarable Substances 
and compiled BOM-based declaration information for our internal part-
ners. We have started reviewing the material data landscape for the new 
SAP platform to also support substance management compliance in  
engineering. For projects, any declaration of substances, e.g., regarding 
SVHCs, is available as required.
Transparency on materials and substances across our product portfolio is 
key to a sustainable energy supply and to making informed decisions about 
material selection and related impacts. Furthermore, the industry is cur -
rently facing the challenge of providing more detailed reporting on GHG 
emissions from materials (as part of the eco-design approach) to meet the 
requirements of the EU Green Deal.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 51Product safety
Product safety encompasses the safety of all products, solutions, and  
services manufactured, provided, and/or sold by Siemens Energy.  
These products, solutions, and services are developed according to the  
latest technical knowledge and comply with applicable legal requirements 
to ensure that they do not pose an unacceptable risk to life, health,  
property, or the environment. Product safety is a fundamental and  
indispensable principle at Siemens Energy. Our product safety strategy 
includes a framework with key processes, which are published in our  
internal Process House (e.g., Risk Assessment or Product Safety Issue (PSI) 
Handling). The framework is complemented by rules and regulations and 
an organizational set-up with clearly defined roles and responsibilities,  
principles for awareness, skills, and know-how.
The Siemens Energy product safety approach focuses on both the technical 
and organizational aspects of product safety. Its effectiveness undergoes 
continuous evaluation and improvement. In fiscal year 2024, improvement measures included the introduction of product safety issue handling and 
risk assessment procedures at the corporate level as well as continued prod-
uct safety awareness training (approximately 4,600 colleagues had partici-
pated in this training by the end of the fiscal year). Numerous workshops 
have been held to analyze our strengths and weaknesses and collaborate to 
better serve our customers, both internal and external.
During fiscal year 2024, two significant product safety incidents were 
reported.
One incident was related to safety issues in the design of service lifts in 
some Siemens Gamesa wind turbine types. The issue is being addressed in 
accordance with our TE function through the implementation of design 
changes and retrofits. The other is still under investigation, after the explo-
sion of gas dryer equipment in September 2024. We sent a warning to all 
customers with this equipment and will consider lessons learned for design 
and development.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 52Sustainable supply chain management
• Integrating sustainability considerations can make supply chains 
more resilient and reliable
• Risk awareness and strategic measures are cornerstones of our  
supplier management
• Systematic audits foster compliance with increasing international 
regulations 
The sustainability of our operations depends not only on us, but also on 
our approximately 30,000 suppliers in 139 countries around the world. 
Negative impacts in our supply chain, whether environmental or social, 
can quickly reflect back on us, affecting our operations, reputation,  
and ultimately our financial performance. With a procurement volume of 
€23.5 billion in fiscal year 2024 (fiscal year 2023: €23.5 billion), it is crucial 
that we manage our supply chain in a sustainable, transparent, and 
responsible way to make it more resilient. For these reasons, responsible 
sourcing is one of the material topics in our sustainability approach.  
Our goal is to achieve the sustainable implementation of our principles of 
our Code of Conduct through strong relationships with suppliers who 
share our values and are equally committed to the protection of human 
rights, fair labor practices, anti-corruption measures, and the environment.By embedding sustainability criteria in the selection, qualification, assess-
ment, and development of our suppliers, we also contribute to the UN 
SDGs. We see our biggest impact in SDG 8 “Decent Work and Economic 
Growth” and SDG 12 “Responsible Consumption and Production.”
To contribute to these SDGs, we carefully consider labor conditions 
throughout the upstream production process and closely monitor the 
impact of our activities. We have also launched a global supplier decarbon-
ization program to further increase transparency on carbon emissions  
in our supply chain (see chapter 	 Decarbonization ), and to address  
climate change mitigation within our supply chain. This, in turn, addresses 
SDG 13 “Climate Action.”
While it is evident that climate change will have a major impact on global 
supply chains, it is vital to be prepared for other risks. For example, the 
combination of several impacts – including geopolitics and macroeconom-
ics (e.g., the conflicts in the Middle East and between Russia and Ukraine, 
the sanctions on Russia, or the trade war between the USA and China)  
as well as capacities and logistics – continues to pose a risk of supply  
chain disruptions, capacity bottlenecks, extended delivery times, and unavailability of materials. Siemens Energy Procurement has been working 
together with operations and our project teams to mitigate the effects and 
safeguard customer commitments. By establishing a systematic supply 
chain resilience and crisis management procedure, we have been able to 
detect risks early on, prepare preventive action, and define mitigation 
measures to reduce risk exposures.
An important factor in our risk management is the relationship with our 
suppliers. We therefore have processes and policies in place that aim to 
ensure that suppliers meet specific ESG requirements. Therefore, in fiscal 
year 2024, we implemented a global ESG dashboard with Key Performance 
and Benefit Indicators that enable us to set targets and monitor their 
achievement.Responsible sourcing requires sound supply chain management with sustainability in mind. 
We work in partnership with our global suppliers to meet international standards for 
responsible supply chains.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 53Binding Code of Conduct for Suppliers
All suppliers and third-party intermediaries of Siemens Energy must sign 
the Code of Conduct (CoC) for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries. The 
CoC is based on the Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) and Principles of 
the UN Global Compact (UNGC). The CoC requires specific environmental, 
compliance, and labor standards to be established across all countries  
of operations. It includes all aspects of the German Supply Chain Due Dili-
gence Act and covers the following topics:
• Human rights : 
 ›Prohibition of forced labor
 ›Prohibition of child labor
 ›Non-discrimination and respect in employment
 ›Freedom of association and collective bargaining
 ›Working hours & wages for employees
 ›Life, health, and safety of employees
 ›Impact on communities
 ›Security forces
• Environmental and climate protection, protection of  
natural resources
• Fair operating practices :
 ›Anti-corruption and bribery
 ›Fair competition, antitrust laws, and intellectual property rights
 ›Conflicts of interest
 ›Anti-money laundering, terrorist financing
 ›Data privacy and cybersecurity
 ›Foreign trade regulations
• Responsible minerals sourcing
• Grievance mechanism
• Compliance with the CoC principles in the supply chain of  
the supplierComprehensive supplier management 
Siemens Energy’s supply chain management approach defines strategic 
procurement processes to sustain the company’s long-term success.  
They are overseen by the Head of Procurement, who reports to the Execu-
tive Board. The approach includes purchasing materials and services 
cost-effectively, ensuring high quality standards, and identifying and 
exploiting opportunities to create value by fostering compliance and  
sustainability along the entire supply chain.
The supplier management process includes a comprehensive set of pro-
cesses and tools to provide transparency and awareness regarding 
expenses, supplier data, and related risks and opportunities. It helps  
managers leverage the potential of our supplier network. The Siemens 
Energy procurement process includes criteria such as financial stability, 
quality, and availability, as well as sustainability criteria such as contractor 
safety, substance declarations, and sustainability and cybersecurity self-  
assessments. As part of Siemens Energy’s overall approach to decarbonize 
its operations throughout the value chain, we actively encourage our  
suppliers to reduce their own carbon emissions as well (for more informa-
tion, see chapter 	Decarbonization ).
Risk awareness
Using our sustainability risk analysis system, we systematically identify 
potential risks in our supply chain every year. The cornerstones of this  
system are:
• Identification of risks and categorization by commodities related to  
certain industries
• Establishment of risk levels for individual countries (determined using 
sustainability indicators for key areas such as collective bargaining, 
worker safety, human rights in the workplace, etc.), making use of  
information supplied by internationally recognized organizations
• Suppliers with large procurement volumesTo strengthen Siemens Energy’s supplier sustainability risk management 
system, we calculate the risks of our suppliers and their scope of supply by 
considering all risk categories that are addressed by the German Supply 
Chain Due Diligence Act. This risk indication is not limited to country risks, 
but also includes commodity-specific risks. It additionally supports buyers 
through the prioritization and nomination of high-risk suppliers for con-
ducting external sustainability audits.Cornerstones of our risk analysis system
Categorization of  
commoditiesRisk levels  
for individual  
countries
Strategic  
measuresAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 54As for most countries the Agora Project was finalized in fiscal year 2023 the 
number of new SSAs decreased by 37% to 4,300 in fiscal year 2024.
Part of the Agora Project is the migration of Siemens Gamesa legacy ven-
dors to Ariba where the SSA must be completed during the onboarding. 
Therefore, until the end of the Agora project the SSA completion in Ariba 
was conducted for the respective Siemens Gamesa legacy vendors in addi-
tion to new vendors during their onboarding. Whereas in fiscal year 2024 it 
was only conducted for new vendors.
Furthermore, we conduct quality audits that include questions about sus-
tainability, covering major aspects and requirements of the CoC. In fiscal 
year 2024, we conducted 546 on-site audits worldwide, compared to 740 
supplier quality audits in fiscal year 2023.
We see external sustainability audits (ESAs) as the most effective means of 
reviewing our suppliers’ sustainability performance. Focusing on quality 
and objectivity, external audit partners conduct the ESAs. We assign repeat 
or follow-up audits if necessary. In fiscal year 2024, Siemens Energy con-
ducted 152 ESAs. This number decreased from 194 audits in fiscal year 
2023, while we accepted 754 ESAs and equivalent assessments of suppliers 
that were conducted by other companies and that confirm the supplier’s 
management system. We only accept assessments that fulfill our require-
ments and where the full audit documentation is provided to us.
To monitor overall performance, we have implemented a new performance 
indicator that indicates the coverage rate of our total sustainability risk 
score in the supply chain, which we evaluate for every supplier in our sup-
plier base. As a risk-based approach, our mid-term goal is to cover 80% of 
our total sustainability risk score within five years. For this fiscal year, we 
aimed to cover 40% of our total sustainability risk score and achieved a 
coverage rate of 44.5%.Throughout the supplier assessment processes, we remain committed  
to the partnership with our suppliers and to helping them improve.  
However, if problems persist and/or the suppliers do not show a willing-
ness to take necessary corrective action, we remove them from our list  
of approved suppliers. All local instances of blocked suppliers are reported 
to Corporate Procurement, which discusses and decides on the need for  
a worldwide block. In fiscal year 2024, no supplier was dismissed, since  
all suppliers with negative results are collaborating and implementing  
corrective actions.
In addition to the processes described above, we have a Central Warning 
Message system in place. This facilitates a fast, efficient response to viola-
tions of the CoC requirements. The responsible procurement departments 
at Siemens Energy are authorized to agree on a series of remedial steps 
with the supplier. Potential misconduct can be reported via the whis-
tleblower hotlines “Speak Up” at Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens 
Gamesa) and the “Integrity Hotline” at Siemens Gamesa (for more informa-
tion, see the chapter 	Compliance and integrity ). To inform Siemens Energy 
employees and suppliers, a global training campaign has been initiated.Supplier  
sustainability risk 
coverage rate: 
44.5%Sustainability
assessments:
4,300
Supplier quality 
audits by internal 
experts:546Supplier sustainability risk score
Supplier quality audits with integrated sustainability questions Fiscal year
2024 2023
Number
Europe, C.I.S.¹, Africa, Middle East 232 334
Americas 168 266
Asia, Australia 146 140
Total 546 740
¹ Commonwealth of Independent States.Supplier assessment
We use sustainability self-assessments (SSAs), covering major aspects of 
the CoC, as part of the supplier qualification process that is regularly 
reviewed and updated as necessary to reflect new standards and regula-
tions. Potential new suppliers undergo a qualification process, while  
existing suppliers are re-evaluated every three years.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 55Sustainability self-assessments (SSAs)¹ Fiscal year
2024 2023
Number
Europe, C.I.S.², Africa, Middle East 2,288 3,604
Americas 1,047 1,442
Asia, Australia 965 1,773
Total 4,300 6,819
Improvement measures³ agreed upon
Legal compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery 1,066 1,407
Respect for the basic human rights of employees 221 667
Prohibition of child labor 0 0
Health and safety of employees 1,105 1,393
Environmental protection 1,526 1,940
Supply chain 364 1,110
Responsible minerals sourcing 140 161
Total 4,422 6,678
¹  Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa): To be conducted by all newly onboarded suppliers with a 
purchasing volume > €10,000 p.a.; Siemens Gamesa: To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD 
countries (referred to as high-risk suppliers). Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under review.
² Commonwealth of Independent States.
³  Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries or to structural improvements to management systems and a lack of 
specific processes and guidelines at the supplier.External sustainability audits (ESAs) Fiscal year
2024 2023
Number
Europe, C.I.S.¹, Africa, Middle East 73 77
Americas 16 21
Asia, Australia 63 96
Total 152 194
Improvement measures² agreed upon
Legal compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery 548 941
Prohibition of forced labor 20 33
Prohibition of child labor 26 23
Health and safety of employees 704 811
Environmental regulation 42 39
Supply chain 97 97
Unfair remuneration 450 529
Collective bargaining 21 9
Discrimination 37 26
Land rights 0 0
Harmful pollution 41 10
Security forces 0 0
Total 1,986 2,518
Accepted ESAs and equivalent assessments 754 71
¹ Commonwealth of Independent States.
²  Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct for 
Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries or to structural improvements to management systems and the lack of 
specific processes and guidelines at the supplier. Responsible minerals sourcing
We are committed to preventing the use of minerals from conflict-affected 
and high-risk areas in the supply chain, in accordance with the risks 
defined in Annex 2 of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible 
Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.  
To this end, we have adopted a Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy to 
provide a consistent, company-wide standard for supply chain manage-
ment. To determine the use, source, and origin of these minerals in our 
supply chains, we investigate the smelters involved. Siemens Energy is 
part of the steering committee of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), 
which provides an assessment program for smelters, the Responsible  
Minerals Assurance Process.
When surveying our approximately 1,300 (fiscal year 2023: 1,400) relevant 
suppliers, we use the RMI’s Conflict Minerals Reporting Template to obtain 
information on smelters producing tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold 
(3TG). We are involved in the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process by 
screening smelters for eligibility and encouraging uncertified smelters to 
take part in the RMIʼs assessment programs. All newly reported smelters 
are shared with the RMI.
Based on risk sources identified by the EU, which cover armed conflicts, 
weak governance, and human rights abuses, Siemens Energy also con-
ducts a specific mineral risk assessment to identify other relevant minerals 
apart from 3TG. Following cobalt, copper, rare earths, and mica, we added  
lithium, nickel, graphite, and iron ore to our supply chain due diligence 
processes according to the 5-step framework of the OECD Due Diligence 
Guidance. In addition to our RMI membership and strategic collaboration 
with the European Partnership for Responsible Minerals, where we chair 
the governance board, we are involved in Copper Mark, an assurance 
framework promoting the responsible production of copper.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 56Human rights
Identified human rights risk areas
Our risk analysis has identified the following human rights risk areas for 
our own business operations as well as our suppliers. The results of the risk 
analysis flow into our corporate decision-making processes and help us 
identify appropriate preventive measures.• Compliance with international conventions and principles
• Human rights anchored in our Business Conduct Guidelines,  
Respect for Human Rights and Environmental Protection Policy 
Statement, and Code of Conduct
• Human rights due diligence mitigates risks along value chain
As a globally operating company, we are aware of the impact our business 
has on people around the world, especially from our large-scale energy 
projects. We are dedicated to responsible business conduct and committed 
to ensuring respect for human rights within our spheres of influence.  
Identifying and managing our human rights impacts and mitigating risks 
along our entire value chain is therefore imperative.
Our actions go beyond compliance with applicable laws and regulations, 
since they are based on our commitment to the following conventions  
and principles:• International Bill of Human Rights , consisting of:
 ›Universal Declaration of Human Rights
 ›International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
 ›International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights
• European Convention on Human Rights 
• ILO (International Labour Organization) Tripartite Declaration of 
Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy 
• ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (in 
particular on the following topics: elimination of child labor, abolition  
of forced labor, prohibition of discrimination, freedom of association, 
the right to collective bargaining, and fundamental freedoms) 
• UN Sustainable Development Goals,  specifically SDG 8 “Decent Work 
and Economic Growth,” which we have defined as one of our priority SDGs 
• United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs)
• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
• Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), to which 
we are a signatory
• Global Framework Agreement  (GFA) on fundamental rights of workersUpholding human rights in our own operations and business relationships  
is a fundamental responsibility for us as a global company.
Respect for human 
rights by security forcesProhibition of  
forced laborFair remunerationHealth and safety  
at workFreedom of association 
(collective bargaining)Prohibition of 
discrimination
Ban on child laborAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 57Anchoring our commitment
Our commitment to respecting human rights is anchored in the Siemens 
Energy and Siemens Gamesa Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG). Both 
BCGs are binding for all executives and employees worldwide. To enforce 
the BCG commitment, employees are trained in the respective require-
ments of the BCGs and are requested to acknowledge them as part of their 
conditions for employment (see 	Compliance training program ).
Our Group Compliance Officer, who is also the Human Rights Officer,  
monitors human rights compliance and reports to the Executive Board at 
quarterly Compliance Review Board meetings and on an ad hoc basis.
The Siemens Energy Policy Statement on Respect for Human Rights and 
Environmental Protection is published on the global Siemens Energy  
website. It has been communicated to our employees, thus further raising 
awareness for human rights.We maintain regular exchanges with networks such as econsense,  
a German sustainability network of internationally operating companies, 
especially regarding new legal developments such as the European  
Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (CSDDD).
Respect for human rights in employee relations
We are committed to human rights in our employee relations. For more 
information, see chapter 	Working at Siemens Energy – Thriving environ-
ment through inclusion and diversity , and for safe and healthy working  
conditions, see chapter 	Occupational health and safety .
Respect for human rights in the supply chain and in business partner 
relations
Our business partners are required to comply with the Siemens Energy CoC 
for Suppliers and Third-Party Intermediaries, which is based on the princi-
ples of the UNGC and the ILO but contains more requirements, such as 
those related to security forces, fair competition, conflicts of interest,  
anti-money laundering, data privacy and cybersecurity, foreign trade  
regulations, and responsible minerals sourcing. The CoC places particular 
emphasis on respect for the basic human rights of employees, including 
fair remuneration, freedom of association, health and safety standards, 
and the prohibition of discrimination, forced labor, and child labor, as well 
as the impact on communities, security forces, and protection of natural 
resources. To support our suppliers, we continue to provide training on 
sustainability in the supply chain.
In line with our implemented sustainability risk management system,  
we systematically identify potential human rights risks in our supply chain 
and conduct supplier assessments. For more information, see chapter 
	Sustainable supply chain management .Dimensions of human rights
Human rights in the 
supply chain and 
in business partner 
relationsHuman rights in 
employee relations
Human rights in 
customer projectsHuman rights due diligence in customer projects
We have a dedicated team that conducts human rights due diligence on 
customer projects. This is mandatory in the sales phase for projects that 
meet defined risk criteria, and the process conforms to the UNGPs. Here, 
we rely on external ESG databases focusing on country-, customer-, and 
project-related risks. The results of the due diligence process, including 
recommendations for mitigation measures, guide the projectʼs deci-
sion-making. We are continuously striving to improve our due diligence 
process, and have expanded our compliance tool (COSON) to conduct and 
document tool-based human rights due diligence.
Transparency and human rights-related query channels
We are aware that some of our business activities take place in difficult 
business environments and are a controversial topic of discussion among 
our stakeholders. We conduct ad hoc risk analyses if there is an alleged 
violation or if there is a notable change in the risk landscape of the supply 
chain. Any results of these ad hoc risk analyses will be reported annually to 
the German Federal Office of Economic Affairs (BAFA) as of January 2024. 
The report to BAFA for the 2023 fiscal year was published in January 2024 
on the global 	Siemens Energy website . Any violations of human rights 
within our areas of influence can be reported via our grievance mecha-
nisms, including communication channels such as our “Speak Up” report-
ing system and ombudsperson. Please see the chapter 	Compliance and 
integrity for more information. Our rules of procedure for the handling of 
complaints via our grievance mechanism are available on 	Siemens 
Energyʼs global website .Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 58Compliance and integrity
Compliance is the foundation for our decisions and activities. Our motto is: 
100% Energy, 100% Compliance. This applies worldwide and at all levels of 
the organization. Consequently, compliance is a top management priority. 
The Legal and Compliance department reports directly to our CEO.  
Moreover, our Group Compliance Officer reports on Siemens Energy  
compliance matters to the Executive and Supervisory Boards on a quarterly 
and ad hoc basis.• Our motto: 100% Energy, 100% Compliance
• Strong ethical culture supported by digital tools, awareness  
activities, and ongoing communication
• Zero-tolerance approach toward compliance violations
Given the scale of our global operations with customers from a wide range 
of industries in the private and public sectors, we are confronted with 
complex regulatory requirements coupled with increasing stakeholder 
expectations regarding integrity and risk management. In this context, we 
are committed to a strong culture of ethics and compliance. We pursue a 
zero-tolerance approach toward corruption, unfair competition, and other 
breaches of law. When such instances occur, we take immediate action.
We support international organizations that strengthen responsible busi-
ness practices, including the United Nations Convention against Corrup-
tion and the Anti-Bribery Convention of the OECD. Moreover, we contrib-
ute to the achievement of SDG 16 “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions,” 
which calls on companies to reduce bribery and corruption in all forms. 
This in turn promotes fair competition – which benefits innovation-driven 
companies like Siemens Energy. Anti-corruption measures combined with strong compliance systems protect companies as well as their employees 
and shareholders from the risk of possible misconduct. Countries also  
benefit from stopping corruption, since corruption impedes economic 
growth and hampers sustainable societal development.
For Siemens Energy, compliance means more than adhering to laws and 
the internal regulations detailed in our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG). We are committed to ensuring that our actions are consistent with our values. 
Compliance is a company-wide responsibility that starts with a clear tone from 
the top of the organization and is based on integrity and robust risk 
management systems.
Anti- 
corruption
Anti-money 
launderingAnti- 
trust
Collective 
actionData  
privacy
Export  
controlHuman  
rightsCompliance focus areasAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 59The compliance system is essential for a 
company-wide zero-tolerance approach
Our zero-tolerance approach requires a robust compliance system of  
measures to ensure that business is carried out in accordance with the law 
and our internal rules. The Siemens Energy-wide compliance approach  
is based on three levels of action: prevent, detect, respond. It is rooted in 
management responsibility and consists of several focus areas. These are 
expanded upon in our BCG.
Siemens Gamesa is fully integrated into the compliance system of Siemens 
Energy, and its BCG comply with Siemens Energy’s standards. Since June 2024, the Siemens Energy Compliance Handbook has superseded that of 
Siemens Gamesa. The Siemens Energy compliance system therefore also 
applies to Siemens Gamesa, with a few minor exceptions.
Preventive measures include the Siemens Energy training program,  
whistleblower and reporting channels such as the “Speak Up” reporting 
system or the ombudsperson, our compliance risk management system, 
and the respective BCG.
The BCG for Siemens Energy outline our internal regulations. They express 
our values, compliance-related responsibilities, and behavioral framework 
for all managers, employees, and Executive Board members worldwide.
Internal investigations, including regular and ad-hoc audits, are essential 
for detecting and clarifying misconduct. Misconduct is met with a clear 
response and immediate consequences.
Moreover, we continuously refine our compliance system to mitigate  
challenges and risks arising from changing market conditions and our  
business activities.
Holistic implementation of the compliance system
Our compliance system combines central governance with the work of qual-
ified compliance officers who aim to ensure its worldwide implementation.
The entire management team is required to commit to compliance.  
We strive to make our business decisions and activities in accordance with 
the relevant legal requirements and follow our values in alignment with 
our company policies.
We expect the same commitment from all our employees and conduct reg-
ular surveys on integrity to obtain their feedback. For example, compliance 
and integrity issues were again part of our global employee engagement 
survey this year.Compliance training program
Our global compliance training program targets all managers and employ -
ees in positions with a specific risk profile. Those selected are required to 
complete mandatory compliance training. 
Continuous improvementPreventRespond
DetectManagement 
responsibilityOur compliance system:  
Management responsibility is the focusCompliance training¹ Fiscal year
2024 2023
Training on Business Conduct Guidelines
Number of targeted employees completing the module 77,407 72,807
Percentage of targeted employees completing the module 96 95
Training on antitrust²
Number of targeted employees completing the module 57,041 52,406
Percentage of targeted employees completing the module 96 95
Training on export control
Number of targeted employees completing the module 77,067 72,044
Percentage of targeted employees completing the module 95 94
Training on data privacy
Number of targeted employees completing the module 77,213 72,203
Percentage of targeted employees completing the module 96 94
1  Siemens Energy addresses the same overarching topics, but the detailed content may vary. Figures contain 
employees who were trained in the respective modules, incl. prior years.
2 Excluding Siemens Gamesa. Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 60including provisions against anti-competitive practices and conflicts of 
interest. Our approach is based on transparency and risk mitigation.  
The underlying principles and procedures are defined in our BCG.
Our compulsory company-wide Business Partner Compliance Tool supports 
the implementation of the process. Moreover, it ensures the documenta-
tion of relevant information and actions. We continuously enhance our 
business partner due diligence process by systematically reviewing com-
plex data sets, using dashboards, and harnessing analytics to improve  
risk management.
Channels for reporting misconduct
We offer all employees and external third parties various confidential 
channels for reporting potential violations. This helps identify and elimi-
nate misconduct. It also protects whistleblowers and the company from 
damage that may result. Such channels include:
• Managers
• Group Compliance Officer
• Compliance department and Legal department
• Human Resources department
• “Speak Up” whistleblower channel and Integrity Hotline
• Ombudsperson
• Employee representatives
Information on possible violations can be given confidentially and anony -
mously. We do not tolerate retaliation against complainants or whis-
tleblowers, and any attempt at retaliation will be treated as a compliance 
violation. The same principles apply to any reports of wrongdoing brought 
forward by third parties.
Our Compliance department investigates relevant reports and takes ap-  
propriate action in accordance with formal company-wide processes.Data privacy
The protection of personal data plays an important role in our digitized 
world. We aim to handle it carefully and responsibly, respecting the privacy 
of the individual. Personal data is processed confidentially and only for 
legitimate, predetermined purposes.We maintain ongoing compliance awareness through various means.  
This included a refresher course on our BCG training, and a virtual instruc-
tor-led training on the risk of diversion for a specific target group during 
the reporting period. Dedicated compliance and integrity topics are  
communicated across the Group through continuous messaging on corpo-
rate social media (e.g., Viva Engage) and through integrity dialogue 
events, which provide a forum for managers to discuss current compliance 
issues with their teams.
Compliance risk management
Reliable compliance risk analysis is key to the success of our business.  
By identifying risks early, we make informed decisions on how best to 
avoid or mitigate them. We design and integrate bottom-up and top-down 
processes as well as tools to identify potential risk scenarios and take  
rapid and consistent action.
An annual assessment of compliance risks was again carried out in fiscal 
year 2024. We addressed identified risks through local and central  
measures and monitored them in dedicated workshops and IT tools.  
Compliance risk management is an integral part of the quarterly com-  
pany-wide ERM that creates further transparency throughout the entire 
risk environment.
Collaboration with business partners
Siemens Energy can be held liable for the illegal actions of our business 
partners. As a result, Siemens Energy diligently reviews, selects, and  
carefully monitors business partners throughout their life cycle. We oblige 
our business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct (CoC). The CoC  
is based on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 
(UNGC) and is mandatory for all Siemens Energy business partners. It cov -
ers legal compliance in general as well as our anti-corruption policies, ¹  Documentation of the purpose, risk, and security safeguards for processing activities within the group.Policies and 
guidelines
Response to data 
privacy incidentsKeeping records 
of data process-
ing activities¹
Training and 
awareness 
measures for 
employeesRespecting data 
subject rights
Transfer  
safeguards within 
the Siemens 
Energy group of 
companiesData privacy management systemAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 61Key compliance indicators
We respond to any alleged violation of external or internal rules in accor -
dance with established company-wide processes. If a violation is proven, we 
take appropriate disciplinary action. Once we have completed a compliance 
investigation and identified a compliance violation, our internal processes 
provide guidance to ensure we take appropriate action with those involved. 
We also evaluate and determine appropriate consequences through disci-
plinary processes and systematically monitor their implementation.
Our internal reviews as part of our compliance risk management, including 
the findings of compliance investigations and audits performed by our 
internal audit function together with the evaluation of case statistics,  
indicate that our compliance system is well designed and effectively  
implemented. Based on the nature of our businesses, the environments in 
which we operate, and the wide range of different geographical regions, 
we do not regard the number of incidents as unusual.
To date, apart from a single legacy matter with respect to Siemens Energy, 
Inc. mentioned in the chapter 3.6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial State-
ments, Note 18 Legal proceedings of Siemens Energy Annual Report 2024, 
there have been no significant issues of non-compliance that have resulted 
in material monetary fines or non-monetary sanctions like the withdrawal 
of trading licenses or licenses to operate in highly regulated industries.
With regard to the process for identifying significant issues of non-compli-
ance and further information on non-compliance matters, please refer to 
chapter 2.8 Report on the internal control and risk management system 
and material risks and opportunities, as well as chapter 3.6 Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 18 Legal proceedings, both part 
of the Siemens Energy Annual Report 2024.Achievements 
Siemens Energy made progress in the year under review. Achievements 
included
• expanding our compliance tool (COSON) to include third-party risk 
assessment covering anti-money laundering, business partner and 
human rights due diligences, as well as case management; and
• celebrating an Integrity Week across Siemens Energy to raise awareness 
of compliance and integrity.
We remain committed to harnessing the potential of digitalization to 
achieve additional efficiency and to further strengthen our compliance 
monitoring system.
We will continue to tailor our compliance system to the unique risks and 
opportunities of our business and the organizational structure of Siemens 
Energy in general.To comply with data protection laws, including the General Data Protection 
Regulation, we have implemented the Siemens Energy data privacy  
management system. This system aims to ensure the protection of our  
customers’, business partners’, and employees’ personal data. We predom-
inantly operate in a B2B environment where our customers are not end 
consumers. Nevertheless, we process business-related personal data,  
such as customers’ and partners’ employee data (e.g., business contact 
information).
We are not aware of any substantiated complaints made in this reporting 
period relating to the protection of customer data.
Compliance indicators Fiscal year
2024 2023
Compliance cases1 reported 147 126
Disciplinary sanctions2104 75
thereof warnings 30 41
thereof dismissals 67 28
thereof other37 6
1  Compliance cases include, but are not limited to, cases related to our focus areas of anti-corruption,  
anti-money laundering, antitrust, data privacy, export control, and human rights.
2  Numbers for disciplinary sanctions in a fiscal year do not necessarily correspond to cases reported during  
that period: sanctions are frequently not implemented in the same year in which the case was reported or  
the investigation – which follows a defined process – was completed. In addition, a single case may result  
in multiple sanctions, or none at all.
3  Includes loss of variable and discretionary compensation components, transfer, and suspension, but not  
the revocation of signatory rights.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 62Working at Siemens Energy
• We act along a clearly defined strategy, our People Agenda,  
which is aligned with our company strategy, values, and behaviors
• We strive to be the employer of choice in the energy industry, 
attracting, developing, and retaining a future-ready workforce
• We focus on creating diverse, inclusive, and welcoming workplaces 
where people can unleash their full potential
Through our human resources (HR) activities, Siemens Energy contributes 
directly to SDG 4 “Quality Education,” SDG 5 “Gender Equality,” SDG 8 
“Decent Work and Economic Growth,” and SDG 10 “Reduced Inequalities.” 
We do this through our People Agenda, our HR Strategy designed to  
prepare the company for the future and drive the energy transition from  
a people perspective.
The People Agenda, including its programs and strategic initiatives,  
is founded on three main building blocks: “Thriving environment,” 
“Game-changing leaders,” and “Vibrant workforce.”In the spirit of “Just Transition,” a concept that is part of the EU Green Deal, 
we are committed to making the transition employee-friendly, socially fair, 
and acceptable. We do this by mirroring the political efforts in the regions 
affected by the shift from fossil to renewable energy with its associated 
evolution in the job market. We drive strategic workforce planning to 
obtain organizational transparency on the structural evolution and needs 
in the job market, and hence our workforce, and seek to offer adequate 
training and provide fair conditions, such as wages and benefits.
To underline that people are a top management priority for Siemens 
Energy, the human resources (HR) organization is led by the Labor Director, 
Tim Holt, a member of the Executive Board. The Global Head of HR has 
operational responsibility for all HR policies, processes, and products.  
A team of Global and Regional HR Business Partners and Global Compe-
tence Centers ensure implementation and execution of the People Agenda 
and its defined activities across Siemens Energy globally.
Thriving environment
Our objective is to foster an environment that encourages self-direction, 
responsibility, and a sense of purpose in one’s work. We facilitate this 
through the implementation of our Inclusion & Diversity Framework, 
applying new ways of innovative working practices, and the establishment 
of cross-organizational networks.With our People Agenda and our corporate culture as a foundation,  
we aim to be the differentiator in the market for our customers,  
investors, suppliers, partners, employees, and society.
 Unleash the Human 
EnergyPeople analyticsSE VoicesTransformation 
platforms & 
networkInclusion & diversityFuture work
Strategic 
workforce 
planningSuccession 
managementLeadership 
diagnostics & 
coachingTransformation 
journeyLeadership 
programsLeadership 
Essentials
RecognitionCompensation 
& benefitsPerformance 
managementDevelopment 
landscapeTalent acquisition
 Vibrant workforce
 Game-changing leaders
 Thriving environmentOur People AgendaAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 63Fostering inclusion & diversity
We want everyone to bring their whole self to work and reach their full 
potential. Our workplace environment is open to everybody regardless of 
their ethnic origin, religion, world view, age, disability, skin color, gender, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression. We strive to 
offer our employees equal treatment in a non-discriminatory work setting. 
To emphasize the relevance of inclusion & diversity (I&D) for Siemens 
Energy, our Chief Financial Officer, Maria Ferraro, is also Chief I&D Officer 
and leads our global I&D Decision Board.
On a local level, we have several I&D regional councils that serve as forums 
for sharing ideas and best practices and providing insights to help the 
company better achieve diversity, equity, and inclusion.
In addition, our employee resource groups are central to our commitment 
to I&D, bringing together employees from diverse backgrounds and  
perspectives. These groups include networks for women, persons with  
disabilities, LGBTQIA+ people, and people from various racial, ethnic, and 
cultural backgrounds.
In fiscal year 2024, we took a number of measures to promote and support 
I&D, in addition to the measures established in past years, such as manda-
tory diverse interview panels to reduce bias in the hiring process. For 
example, we implemented a group-wide I&D Policy that establishes the 
foundation of our I&D strategy and represents our commitment to respon-
sible business. We published a “Preventing Harassment and Discrimination 
at Work” instruction, which reinforces our commitment to a workplace 
where everyone feels safe, respected, and valued. We conducted a volun-
tary and anonymous self-identification survey to provide employees with 
the opportunity to share personal information – such as their ethnicity,  
disability status, gender identity, and sexual orientation. The results  
provided valuable insights, allowing us to tailor our programs. In Germany, Our core behavior “Be open & inclusive“
Valuing DiversityOur Inclusion & Diversity pillars
1
Equity
We recognize the unique needs of each 
individual or group and remove barriers 
and create opportunities under which 
everyone can participate on equal terms.2
Belonging
We make our mix work by creating 
an inclusive culture where people 
feel respected, engaged, and able 
to speak up and be themselves.3
Society & partnerships
We work together, internally and 
externally, with customers and 
partners to support us in becoming 
more diverse and inclusive.We embed inclusion & diversity in everything we do by using a holistic frame built around 4 strategic focus areas.
4
Accountable leaders
Our leaders are accountable and 
internally and publicly champion 
diversity, equity, and inclusion.
We use “diversity” to describe our commitment to recognizing and respecting the differences between  
people while valuing the contribution everyone can make to our business,  
without any tolerance for discrimination or bias of any kind.
Valuing Inclusion
We use “inclusion” to describe our commitment to being an open and inclusive company,  
striving to create safe, welcoming workplaces with a culture that encourages equality and belonging.we started a career support initiative for Ukrainian refugees in collabora-
tion with the Federal Job Agency. The initiative aims to support employ -
ment and social integration, and has already resulted full-time contracts, 
internships, and temporary work contracts being offered.
We also extended our strategic partnerships by joining the International 
Labour Organization’s Global Business Disability Network and by supporting 
the UN Standards for Tackling Discrimination against LGBTQIA+ People and 
the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. We developed an Accessibility 
Sharepoint, which bundles accessible technology and solutions to provide 
our employees with the tools that best support their individual needs.In addition, we supported several specific events such as the following:
• Global Diversity Awareness Month, to promote cultural intelligence for  
an inclusive workspace through global training
• International Women’s Day, 54 virtual and face-to-face events con-
ducted globally
• Pride celebrations, with several events hosted to address bias and provide 
tools for better allyship
• International Day for Persons with Disabilities, to help develop assistive 
technology training and celebrate the contribution of people with  
disabilities around the worldAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 64On September 30, 2024, Siemens Energy employed about 1,400 people 
with a disability in Germany (September 30, 2023 about 1,400).
Global employee engagement survey
At Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa), our global employee 
engagement survey gives all employees worldwide the opportunity to share 
how they perceive our company, culture, leadership, team collaboration, 
and work environment.
In fiscal year 2024, this survey was conducted once, with a response rate 
of 81.5% and approximately 67,000 comments provided. All survey scores 
increased or remained stable on a global, company-wide level compared to 
the previous year’s survey.Siemens Energy aims to reach a share of 25% women in top leadership 
positions by September 30, 2025, and a share of 30% women in top leader -
ship positions by September 30, 2030. As part of the integration activities, 
Siemens Gamesa has adopted the gender targets of Siemens Energy.  
Progress toward these goals will therefore be reported jointly from this 
year onward. In fiscal year 2024, the share of women in top leadership 
positions was 24% (fiscal year 2023: 26%).
Apart from increasing the share of women in top leadership positions, 
ensuring equal pay for equal work is highly important for Siemens Energy. 
Our goal is to comply with all local regulations for measuring and report-
ing on equal pay. In fiscal year 2022, we began using a standardized meth-
odology to identify potential gender differences in pay among employees 
across Siemens Energy, taking into consideration factors such as country, 
seniority, and job family. As a result, in addition to the simple difference in 
average pay, known as the unadjusted pay gap, we can also report the 
adjusted pay gap. The calculation methodology is regularly evaluated to 
align with regulatory requirements and reporting conventions. In fiscal 
year 2023, we started using Hourly Total Actual Direct Compensation (FTE) 
instead of Annualized Total Target Direct Compensation (FTE), computed 
using payout ratios for the previous fiscal year. For fiscal year 2024, we 
improved the calculation methodology further to provide more accurate 
results and calculated the adjusted pay gap based on logarithmic pay val-
ues, resulting in a 3.09% gap.
In December 2023, we were certified by the Fair Pay Institute (fpi), which 
granted Siemens Energy the status of Fair Pay Analyst.The multi-question engagement factor increased to 79% (Q3 2023: 76%).  
It was introduced in fiscal year 2023 and measures the weighted average 
of four questions: pride, willingness to stay, motivation, and taking action.
The improvement area from last year, “Active Engagement,” which mea-
sures the extent to which employees feel their team took actions to create 
positive change after the last survey, increased by 4 percentage points 
compared to the previous one, reaching 65% (Q3 2023: 61%). We plan  
to integrate Siemens Gamesa in the next employee engagement survey in 
fiscal year 2025.
Game-changing leaders
Leaders need to provide clarity and direction in uncertain conditions.  
Their task is to bring new strategies, new mindsets, and business transfor -
mation to life, triggered by outside market changes, and role model  
our Leadership Essentials.
Our six Leadership Essentials (see graphic on the next page) help Siemens 
Energy leaders grow, perform, and deliver our strategic goals. They define 
the qualities we expect of our leaders across all leadership levels and  
provide the language we use to hold one another accountable for shaping 
our culture. In fiscal year 2024, we started implementing our Leadership 
Essentials within our Business Area Siemens Gamesa, with a rollout plan 
including communication and training.Equal pay¹ Fiscal year
2024 2023
Adjusted pay gap (%) 3.09 4.81
Unadjusted pay gap (%) 3.42 4.57
1  Figures relate to Siemens Energy, taking into consideration all employees with active employment contracts 
and complete data available as of the end of each financial year. An unadjusted pay gap refers to the difference 
between the earnings of men vs. women (mean male vs. female FTE Total Direct Compensation in € using ac-
tual payout values based on incentive payout ratios from the previous fiscal year converted to hourly rates) that 
could arise from differences in a number of factors, for example, job families, geography, relative value of the 
position, seniority, or gender. An adjusted pay gap refers to the part of this difference between the earnings of 
men vs. women that is attributable solely to gender. The pay gap KPI is expressed as the difference between the 
mean male pay vs. the mean female pay, divided by the mean male pay. A positive pay gap KPI is one in favor of 
men, a negative one in favor of women.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 65Leadership development
In fiscal year 2024, Siemens Energy launched its leadership development 
landscape with several leadership development programs, targeting  
leaders at different stages of their career. All programs are designed around 
our values, behaviors, and Leadership Essentials. They are the foundation 
for building a strong and diverse leadership pipeline and enhance the 
overall quality and maturity of the leaders across Siemens Energy.
Succession
With our succession risk management, we strive to ensure business  
continuity and robust internal succession pipelines for the most critical 
roles across Siemens Energy.
The Executive Board regularly reviews the key roles and the quality and 
robustness of the succession pipelines. The process is supported by KPIs 
that provide transparency on the diversity of the succession lists and suc-
cession ratios. We have introduced executive development reviews for top 
management succession candidates to assess their readiness for future roles and to provide a basis for detailed development discussions with the 
respective succession candidates. We aim to include Siemens Gamesa in 
the succession process in fiscal year 2025.
Vibrant workforce
Our ambition is to become the employer of choice in the energy industry. 
In a competitive and volatile environment, competing for talent remains  
a key challenge. Therefore, attracting, hiring, onboarding, developing,  
and retaining a diverse talent pool is key to our future success.
We are doing this by investing in our vibrant workforce. All elements aim 
to contribute to the implementation of our strategy in an employ -
ee-friendly and fair manner.
Siemens Energy protects basic working conditions and promotes fair coop-
eration among management, employees, and employee representatives. Siemens Energy’s principles and values for compliance and integrity are 
summarized in our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG). Siemens Energy 
commits to safeguard the fundamental rights of employees. This includes 
adhering to all applicable working-hours regulations around the world, 
ensuring adequate compensation, upholding the freedom of association 
and collective bargaining, and maintaining zero tolerance for discrimina-
tion or harassment (see chapter 	Compliance and integrity ).
Employer branding
Our employer brand, internally and externally, is crucial for our company’s 
success. It aims to attract top talent, foster employee engagement and 
retention, enhance our competitive advantage, and demonstrate what  
we stand for and can offer as an employer. In fiscal year 2024, we were 
recognized as “Best Place to Work” by Glassdoor in the U.S. We focus on 
further strengthening our employer brand through several activities, 
including
• conducting an annual brand health assessment to determine brand 
awareness among potential talent and to understand drivers for  
consideration;
• releasing our comprehensive Employer Branding Playbook that includes 
messaging, tips and tricks, audience profiles for Manufacturing,  
Engineering, Field Service, IT, and Corporate roles, etc.;
• targeted global and local advertising campaigns to create awareness  
for Siemens Energy in markets with significant hiring demands;
• building a strong social media presence on LinkedIn, Facebook,  
and other channels with targeted recruiting campaigns;
• tracking key performance indicators and benchmarks to measure  
and optimize targeted employer branding initiatives; and
• utilizing the Employee Referral Program to enable and encourage 
employees to refer external candidates to join Siemens Energy.
Promoting early careers
We strive to attract young talents to our workplaces and encourage them 
to contribute to our thinking while also promoting positive collaboration 
and dialogue among different generations.Leadership Essentials
Leaders are 
curious learners1
Leaders grow  
our people4
Leaders create  
the future2
Leaders ignite 
change5
Leaders deliver  
as one 3
Leaders stand 
for safety and 
integrity6Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 66An example of what we offer is vocational education. With our vocational 
training programs in Germany, we aim to attract school graduates. As of 
September 30, 2024, there were 2,088 (September 30, 2023: 2,112) train-
ees and students enrolled in work-study programs. In addition, we had 
1,256 (September 30, 2023: 1,104) internals and 832 (September 30, 2023: 
1,008) externals from other companies. In fall 2024, a total of 500 (fiscal 
year 2023: 408) graduates began an internal apprenticeship or a work-
study program, and we had 268 (fiscal year 2023: 238) external trainees. 
We also offer vocational training in several other countries.
In recruiting apprentices, we have pursued a new approach since fiscal 
year 2024. Rather than relying on media advertisements for specific job 
openings, we invite applications through an online questionnaire focused 
on passion, team ability, engagement, and motivation. We aim to provide 
modern and up-to-date vocational training and are constantly developing 
our training concept. In fiscal year 2024, we introduced a new education 
concept, which is focused on GenZ and GenAlpha.
The global Siemens Energy Graduate Program is a two-year experience 
designed to develop, grow, and retain talented young university and doc-
toral graduates. It includes one international assignment as well as various 
development modules and training courses. Participants are hired on a 
permanent contract with all rights and responsibilities of an employee.
People development and retention
Siemens Energy’s goal is to continuously develop and retain a robust  
workforce that is prepared for the challenges of the energy transition.  
People development and retention is one of our top strategic priorities, 
since it not only benefits employees on a personal level but also propels 
the company forward, fostering a culture of continuous improvement  
and innovation.Strategic workforce planning
Strategic workforce planning (SWP) addresses structural workforce changes 
at an organizational level and is intended to ensure that critical roles and 
future-relevant skills are distributed appropriately across all levels and loca-
tions. We strive to close skills gaps and build a robust workforce by specifi-
cally focusing on:
• Build:  upskilling and reskilling our existing workforce in strategic 
growth fields
• Buy:  strategic hiring from the external market
• Borrow:  focused contracting to balance peaks
• Bind:  retaining mission-critical skills
In fiscal year 2024, SWP was integrated into the overall strategic planning 
process and was a key topic in Board-level strategy meetings. We standard-
ized our approach and the SWP outputs across all Business Areas and  
Functions. Our focus was on creating transparency on strategic business 
drivers, as well as on regional and country-level workforce shifts, skills 
gaps, critical roles, and future demands to provide a comprehensive  
overview for Siemens Energy. SWP is not yet rolled out in our Business  
Area Siemens Gamesa. During the upcoming integration, we will plan  
the potential rollout.
Performance and growth
The performance management approaches at Siemens Energy are designed 
to accelerate individual development and create high-performing teams. 
They are open to all employees and built around constant dialogue and 
feedback, individual goals, responsibilities, and regular check-ins through-
out the year.
We strive to establish a growth mindset throughout the entire organization 
that helps our employees individually and the company as a whole to thrive 
in a dynamic business environment. In this way, we want to enhance  
performance, foster a positive work culture, and attract talent. Our regular 
processes include dialogues about personal development and growth. In fiscal year 2024, we launched our new Talent Development approach. 
Employees were identified based on their potential, ambition, and readi-
ness to accelerate their development as either specialists or leaders.  
This aims to build a robust talent pipeline and prepare for critical roles  
in the company within two years. Through talent pools and personalized 
development plans, we focus on increasing our talents’ visibility and fos-
tering their learning and growth.
Learning and training
Developing employees in their current roles and for their future careers  
is critical to the success of our business. We strive to promote lifelong 
learning, upskilling, and development.
At Siemens Energy, learning takes place at a wide variety of levels – on the 
job, by means of peer learning through communication and collaboration, 
and in virtual and in-person internal or external learning activities.  
Our learning opportunities include the following areas:
• Professional skills relevant to specific functions such as sales or project 
management
• Technical skills with regard to our energy technologies, products,  
and solutions
• Digital skills, potentially relevant for all functions, such as data analytics 
or cybersecurity
• Personal skills, relevant for all employees in all functions and roles,  
such as problem-solving, communication, or self-direction
• Self-reflection tools for employees, from simple checklists and self-  
assessments on skills to multi-source feedback
• Transition assistance programs to support continued employability or 
the management of career endings, e.g., through coaching, counseling, 
or a specific qualification initiative in GermanyAnnex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 67In fiscal year 2024, we continued to establish functional learning acade-
mies. Training courses are selected and developed with internal experts 
from our businesses and functions and offered on our learning platform. 
We introduced a dashboard to monitor and measure our progress in the 
area of learning and development. A global communication campaign to 
promote continuous and self-directed learning and development was also 
launched in fiscal year 2024.
Our learning platform offers employees worldwide access to e-learning 
modules as well as trainer-led learning options and coaching in different 
languages. In fiscal year 2024, the Siemens Energy learning platform was 
rolled out in our Business Area Siemens Gamesa. Here, the Wind University 
remains the functional training center. It enables learning by delivering a 
variety of solutions through different learning platforms.
Siemens Energy spent about €91 million on training activities in fiscal year 
2024 (€80 million in fiscal year 2023). Our employees spent an average of 
13 hours (fiscal year 2023: 12) on formal learning activities.Rewarding our workforce
Siemens Energy strives to offer benefit programs based on local market 
practices that are attractive, fair, and inclusive, considering accessibility  
for a diverse workforce. Some examples of our benefits are:
• We offer market-competitive retirement plans in 60 countries to around 
60,000 employees focusing on fairness and flexibility for different 
employee groups and their needs.
• We aim to include local benefit initiatives that are environmentally 
friendly, e.g., subsidies for public transport systems or electric benefit 
cars. Long-service awards are provided to recognize dedicated work  
by employees and loyalty of service to our company.
• We seek to offer a range of opportunities to our employees to tailor  
their working times and locations to their needs, such as part-time and 
remote working.
• We aim to foster a family-friendly environment that supports our employ -
ees at crucial moments in their lives. We decided to set a global standard 
in this area and developed a global life-event policy in fiscal year 2024 
that grants all our employees worldwide a minimum number of days off 
in the case of the following life events:
 ›Childbirth or adoption
 ›Death of a close family member
 ›An employeeʼs close family member requiring care or support for  
serious medical reasons
This new global life-event policy was implemented in fiscal year 2024 in 
Central and South America and the Middle East. The remaining countries 
will follow by the end of the next fiscal year (September 30, 2025).
The benefits are not yet harmonized with our Business Area Siemens 
Gamesa. During the upcoming integration planning, we intend to identify 
harmonization opportunities and plan a potential rollout.Training Fiscal year
2024 2023
Spend on further education (€ million) 91 80
Spend on further education per employee (€) 933 856
Total number of training hours 1,274,677 1,126,608
On-site 970,726 863,356
Web-based 303,951 263,252
Total average training hours per employee 13.0 12.0
On-site 9.9 9.2
Web-based 3.1 2.8Training Fiscal year
(hours) 2024 2023
Gender1
Female 214,868 171,364
Male 1,059,026 948,637
Job families2
Customer services 373,840 111,561
Engineering 178,076 106,549
Finance 59,220 36,396
Information technology 60,280 43,256
Internal services 52,300 50,576
Manufacturing 240,331 50,729
Project management 52,919 30,374
Sales 51,266 31,374
Supply chain management/procurement/  
supply chain logistics56,549 27,173
Others 149,896 69,433
1  The difference is mainly due to the above-average share of product training in male-dominated areas, such as 
technicians working in customer service, maintenance of turbines, and manufacturing. In fiscal year 2024, 782 
additional training hours are attributed to employees who prefer not to disclose their gender.
2 2023 figures relate to Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 68About 3,300 employees (September 30, 2023: about 2,900), or 3.3%, 
worked part-time, and around 2,100 (September 30, 2023: about 2,200) 
were on leave of absence.
Siemens Energy continuously strives to provide competitive and fair com-
pensation levels to attract, retain, and reward talents. To this end, we con-
sider a variety of internal and external factors that are consistent with our 
corporate culture and values, such as internal pay equality, external com-
petitiveness, and a strong link between pay and performance. Hiring agency 
workers is common, and in many cases, contracts are governed by similar 
or comparable wage policies to those enjoyed by company employees.
Once a year, during the global Merit Round, we review employees’ salaries 
in a structured process to identify potential needs for adjustment. We regu-
larly monitor the market competitiveness of our compensation in terms of 
compensation levels and compensation structure. In fiscal year 2024, the 
review again showed that our pay levels are competitive worldwide. Indus-
try wage agreements – which Siemens Energy adheres to – supersede the 
national minimum wage in many countries. Compensation structures 
depend on local market practice and the respective position value or class.
In fiscal year 2024, variable pay at Siemens Energy was governed by  
a global framework, which defined five incentive schemes, leveraging 
financial KPIs from our external financial reporting and a performance 
multiplier. Siemens Energy reports the ratio between the average salary of 
a median employee versus our highest-paid person. For fiscal year 2024, 
this ratio stood at 52 (fiscal year 2023: 86).
Additionally, we offer a range of share plans for employees at every level. 
They offer our employees the opportunity to invest and benefit from our 
company’s long-term performance. Our share purchase program for all 
employees at every level is called “Direct Match Program.” In fiscal year 2024, it was offered in 42 countries to approximately 95,000 employees at every 
level – from shop floor to top management, including Siemens Gamesa.
Our senior managers and other employees receive stock awards through  
a ratable vesting scheme as an essential element of the remuneration 
package. In addition, performance-based share awards have been granted 
to senior executives in positions deemed to be of particular importance  
to the company, the achievement of which is linked to specific KPIs, such 
as a sustainability target set in the areas of environmental, social, and  
governance (ESG). This reflects the importance of sustainability for 
Siemens Energy, not only for members of the Executive Board but also  
for senior managers.
Recognition and celebrating success
We know that our employees are our greatest asset. That is why apprecia-
tion of our employees and a culture of recognition are important to us.
Our Share Thanks And Recognition (STAR) online platform gives an equal 
voice to our employees. They can show appreciation to anyone in the orga-
nization through personalized messages, e-cards, or the awarding of 
points. The platform was rolled out in August 2021, and as of today can be 
used by more than 72,000 employees in 86 countries worldwide. We plan 
to implement this tool at Siemens Gamesa in fiscal year 2025. Meanwhile, 
Siemens Gamesa will keep the non-monetary Thank You Awards, where 
employees can nominate peers, team members, and managers for acting 
as role models in line with the company values.
Siemens Energy recognizes and celebrates outstanding contributions and 
achievements within the company through its yearly Passion for Energy 
Awards. The awards highlight individuals and teams demonstrating excep-
tional dedication, innovation, and impact in their work, in line with 
Siemens Energy’s mission and values.Employee representation
At Siemens Energy, we highly value employee representation and partici-
pation as provided by national laws and regulations.
Across the globe, we have established a regular dialogue between com-
pany management and employee representatives. At the European level, 
employee representation takes place in the Siemens Energy European 
Works Council based on the German Act on European Works Councils and 
the Siemens Energy European Works Council Agreement. The agreement 
covers all employees of Siemens Energy and its consolidated subsidiaries 
within the European Economic Area plus the UK. In fiscal year 2024,  
the management of Siemens Energy and the employee representatives  
on the Supervisory Board signed an international framework agreement  
to further encourage and foster social dialogue on a global level.
In Germany, trade union representation is through the Industrial Union of 
Metalworkers, and in many other countries by domestic trade unions.  
In addition, in-house employee representation is based on national regula-
tions. At German locations, employee representation is based on the  
German Works Constitution Act and is realized through various employee 
representation bodies, in particular central works councils, combined 
works councils, and local works councils, which are elected by the employ -
ees. In many other countries, this is based on domestic law. The Supervi-
sory Board of Siemens Energy also contains employee representatives  
as full board members who are – depending on national law – either dele-
gated by employees or appointed by the trade union. In other countries, 
we engage with the respective employee representatives, as national laws 
stipulate. This includes, but it is not limited to, works councils, trade 
unions, and employee committees.Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 69Employee structure
As of September 30, 2024, Siemens Energy had about 99,000 employees 
worldwide (September 30, 2023: 96,000), about 30,000 (September 30, 
2023: 29,000) of whom worked for Siemens Gamesa. The average number  
of employees during the fiscal year stood at about 98,000 (fiscal year  
2023: 94,000).
Women accounted for 20.6% (September 30, 2023: 20.2%) of the work -
force and 22.3% (fiscal year 2023: 23.3%) of all new hires. We expect 10.6% 
of employees to retire within the next five years (fiscal year 2023: 10.5%). 
The share of employees with permanent working contracts is 95.9%  
(September 30, 2022: 95.0%). The worldwide average working week at 
Siemens Energy was 39 hours, with no changes in comparison to fiscal 
year 2023. The average employee age was 42.5 (fiscal year 2023: 42.6).  
At Siemens Energy, about 62% of employees (fiscal year 2023: about 61%) 
are covered by collective bargaining agreements worldwide.Working contracts Fiscal year
2024 2023
Employees with permanent working contract 94,778 91,191
Employees with temporary working contract 4,037 4,239
thereof female employees 834 927
thereof male employees 3,203 3,312
thereof EMEA 2,043 2,248
thereof Americas 145 90
thereof Asia/Australia 1,849 1,901
Age and regional structure
 <35
 35-44
 45-54
 >54
1 Commonwealth of Independent StatesEurope, C.I.S1, Africa, Middle East 24% 32% 26% 17%
Americas 27% 30% 23% 20%
Asia/Australia 37% 41% 18% 4%
Total 26% 33% 24% 16%September 30, 2024Number of employees
Europe, C.I.S1,  
Africa, Middle EastAmericas20%  (20%)
12%  (13%)67%  (66%)
Asia/Australia98,815
Total
Figure for previous year in brackets.
1 Commonwealth of Independent States.September 30, 2024Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 70Employee fluctuation – hires Fiscal year
2024 2023
Hires (thousands) 13.5 13.5
thereof women (%) 22.3 23.3
thereof Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East (%) 64.9 59.9
 thereof women Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East (%) 21.4 23.3
thereof Americas (%) 22.7 25.4
 thereof women Americas (%) 23.7 23.2
thereof Asia/Australia (%) 12.3 14.8
 thereof women Asia/Australia (%) 24.3 23.4
thereof age <35 (%) 58.0 56.7
thereof age 35–44 (%) 27.0 27.0
thereof age 45–54 (%) 11.1 12.0
thereof age >54 (%) 3.9 4.3
Recruitment rate² (%) 13.8 14.4
¹ Commonwealth of Independent States.
2  The recruitment rate is calculated as the number of new employee hires at Siemens Energy during the fiscal year 
divided by the average headcount.Employee fluctuation – exits Fiscal year
2024 2023
Exits (thousands) 8.7 8.9
thereof dismissals¹ (%) 10.9 9.5
thereof women (%) 17.9 20.3
thereof Europe, C.I.S.², Africa, Middle East (%) 55.5 60.0
thereof Americas (%) 23.1 25.7
thereof Asia/Australia (%) 21.5 14.4
thereof age <35 (%) 36.5 35.7
thereof age 35–44 (%) 28.0 28.8
thereof age 45–54 (%) 14.6 14.9
thereof age >54 (%) 21.0 20.6
Turnover rate³ (%) 8.9 9.6
Turnover rate – voluntary (%) 4.4 5.0
Turnover rate – other reasons (%) 4.4 4.6
¹ Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).
² Commonwealth of Independent States.
³  The turnover rate is calculated as the number of voluntary and involuntary (all other) exits at Siemens Energy 
during the fiscal year divided by the average number of employees.Contractually agreed weekly working hours (average) Fiscal year
2024 2023
Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 38 38
Americas 41 42
Asia/Australia 40 40
Total 39 39
¹ Commonwealth of Independent States.
Employees on parental leave1Fiscal year
2024 2023
Total 762 811
thereof women 253 283
thereof men 509 528
1 Figures relate to Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa) employees in Germany only.Working hour programs Fiscal year
(%) 2024 2023
Employees working full-time 96.7 97.0
Employees working part-time 3.3 3.0
Women working part-time 1.9 1.9
Employees on leave of absence 2.1 2.2Annex The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Responsible operations
Inclusion and diversity 
lead to more innovative 
solutions
Marta Jimeno  
Head of Inclusion & Diversity Program Office,  
Siemens Energy
How to create a better workplace? It’s a question that Marta Jimeno tries to 
answer in her work for the Siemens Energy Inclusion & Diversity Program, 
and one thing is clear: It’s going to take people and ideas from all parts 
of society to make it happen. Marta explains how the company is doing it.
This morning I’m preparing for a meeting with my colleagues in Real Estate 
to discuss strategies on how we can improve accessibility in key locations.
Since the anonymous Self-IDentification survey taken in February 2024, 
projects like this are becoming more effective. We now know a lot more 
about the ethnicity, disability status, gender, and other aspects of our work -
force around the world. This information is helping us to be more specific  
in our goals, and it’s uncovering new opportunities for growth and improve-
ments we hadn’t known about before.
For example, some respondents who self-identified as having a disability 
shared that they sometimes struggle with access to specific resources. This 
survey data has allowed us to specifically identify where accessibility could 
be improved.09:00 a.m. 
Bilbao, Spain
This morning I’m preparing for a 
meeting with my colleagues in Real 
Estate to discuss strategies on how we can 
improve accessibility in key locations.
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024
Page 71The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024
Page 72
Employees identifying as LGBTQIA+ showed that they wish for increased 
awareness of the topic within Siemens Energy. As an action, we’re preparing 
awareness courses for all employees to help prevent discrimination and 
harassment.
In order to address specific I&D topics in different regions of the world, we’ve 
created 14 regional committees in our branches consisting of employees and 
managers. And it’s not just lip service. These committees address their ideas 
directly to Maria Ferraro, who is both Chief Financial Officer and Chief 
Inclusion & Diversity Officer at Siemens Energy. The engagement of our 
employees grows year after year thanks to our I&D program.
The truth is that when our employees feel comfortable and integrated, this 
also impacts our company’s success. It helps us attract and retain talent and 
leads to more creative and innovative solutions to challenges. What’s more, 
customers can better identify with our company and products when served 
by local employees with the same cultural and linguistic backgrounds. In 
that regard, inclusion and diversity offer us a competitive advantage. And, 
frankly, it’s going to take perspectives from all parts of society to innovate  
for a sustainable world.
As I see it, inclusion and diversity goes beyond the walls of our company. 
Encouraging respect and openness to diversity and other identities at 
Siemens Energy improves the larger society we’re living in. This is also 
personal concern of mine. I have a son and daughter, and I want to help 
make the world of work and the world in general a better place for them.
Watch the video:
As I see it, inclusion and diversity goes 
beyond the walls of our company. 
Encouraging respect and openness to 
diversity and other identities at Siemens 
Energy improves the larger society we’re 
living in.The company Foreword Content Decarbonizing our business Annex Responsible operations
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 73Annex4
The company and reporting method 74
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 75
Methodology for calculating CO2e emissions from Scope 3 – Use of sold products 86
Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor 88
Imprint 90The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 74Siemens Energy AG is incorporated as a stock corporation (Aktienge-
sellschaft) under German law, with its registered office in Munich,  
Germany. The company is entered in the commercial register of the  
Munich local court (Amtsgericht) under HRB 252581. Siemens Energy AG  
is the parent company of the Siemens Energy Group.
The Executive Board of Siemens Energy AG is the body with overall respon-
sibility for the management of the business in accordance with the  
German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz).
Siemens Energy’s reporting structure in fiscal year 2024 comprises four 
Business Areas: Gas Services (GS), Grid Technologies (GT), Transformation 
of Industry (TI), and our wind power business, Siemens Gamesa (SG).  
The organizational structure and detailed product offerings are described 
in the chapter  “At a Glance.”
Reporting method 
Sustainability is an integral part of our company strategy. In our Sustain-
ability Report (hereinafter referred to as the “report”), we publish key  
information on our sustainability activities, including aspects such as  
strategy, organization, initiatives, programs, management systems, and 
goals. As of fiscal year 2024, our reportable segments are GS, GT, and SG; TI is reporting voluntarily as if it were a reportable segment despite some 
differences in its economic characteristics. While the strategic direction  
of the Business Areas is comparable, management approaches and pro-
grams may differ. We indicate deviations from a common approach in the 
relevant chapter.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability 
Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI Standards,” see 
 GRI Content Index ). We use the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Frame-
work and its narrative guidance as a guide when reporting on our human 
rights activities.
Reporting period and reporting boundaries 
This report is based on activities carried out during Siemens Energy’s fiscal 
year 2024 (October 1, 2023 to September 30, 2024). Any exceptions are 
designated as such. We report annually on our progress.
In general, the report covers all of our fully consolidated companies.  
Possible exceptions regarding the data pool used are indicated. Minority 
equity investments are not included in the report. To ensure comparability, 
indicators from previous years may be adjusted where necessary, which 
will be indicated accordingly.Data collection
Given Siemens Energy’s size and global presence, data collection requires 
the use of a distributed IT and data environment. Non-financial data cap-
tured may adhere to local rules and regulations, which can deviate from 
the Group’s reporting requirements. To ensure that the Group’s non-finan-
cial reporting is consistent, the data collected is reconciled and adjusted to 
comply with the Group-wide reporting requirements. Any information  
presented in this report that is subject to significant data limitations  
is identified as such. The non-financial data published in this report is  
collected through various internal reporting systems, which, for the  
most part, are different from those applicable to financial information. 
Such data may be subject to less extensive internal documentation, data 
generation, and auditing requirements, including requirements related to 
the IT systems used and the general control environment. To ensure data 
quality and preserve the value of the information, we identify and evaluate 
data restrictions in accordance with our internal guidelines. Where neces-
sary, for example with a view to consistency, this may include the exclu-
sion of affected data sources. As a result, our figures may not be compara-
ble with the data published under the same or similar designations by 
other companies.
Due to rounding, the figures presented throughout this report may not add 
up precisely to the totals provided, and percentages may not precisely 
reflect the absolute figures.The company and reporting methodAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 75Environmental reporting and collection of 
environmental data
Siemens Energy uses an environmental information system to collect and 
analyze reports from all relevant sites in all relevant countries. Reporting 
criteria have been defined based on the size of a location. Our major sites 
and offices report the full scope of parameters such as energy use, 
resource consumption, and emissions. Minor sites report only selected 
parameters that are applicable to the location. We report environmental 
data for continuing operations. The data has been extrapolated to 100% to 
ensure completeness and global coverage. We monitor our environmental 
impact for all office and production sites of environmental relevance, 
using environmental data that is gathered monthly. 
Independent assurance review 
We prepared our Sustainability Report in accordance with high quality 
standards. Consequently, we commissioned an independent auditor to 
conduct a limited assurance engagement of this report for the reporting 
period. You can find the assurance statement of KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprü-
fungsgesellschaft on  page 88 .Sustainability and climate action play a key role in our decision-making 
processes. We are committed to making an important contribution to the 
global economy’s decarbonization and supporting our customers in transi-
tioning to a more sustainable world. Our aspiration is to reach net zero 
across the entire value chain. Siemens Energy has already implemented 
GHG emissions reduction initiatives along the entire value chain: in the 
supply chain, in our own operations, and through the goods and services 
we provide to our customers.
To create transparency on our climate actions, we disclose how we address 
risks and opportunities arising from climate change. Our disclosure is con-
sistent with the recommendations by the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Please also see our TCFD Index in the 
 Siemens Energy Annual Report 2024, TCFD Index .
Climate change governance
Board oversight
At the start of fiscal year 2023, the highest governing body at Siemens 
Energy, the Supervisory Board, established a Sustainability and Finance 
Committee (formerly Innovation and Finance Committee), chaired by  
Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG. 
Responsibilities of the committee include addressing sustainability issues, 
preparing resolutions of the Supervisory Board on the company’s financial 
situation and resources, especially on the annual budget, investments,  
and financial measures, resolving certain transactions and measures for 
which the Executive Board requires approval, and regularly addressing the 
company’s naming, branding, and design concept. In August 2023, the 
Supervisory Board completed training on sustainability topics.The Executive Board of Siemens Energy is responsible for the company’s 
strategy and targets, including its aspiration to reach net zero across the 
entire value chain, as well as its GHG emissions reduction targets along the 
entire value chain: in the supply chain, in our own operations, and through 
the goods and services we provide to our customers.Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Governance
Metrics and TargetsStrategy
Risk ManagementMapping of recommendations for  
climate-related financial disclosures
Disclose the organization’s 
governance around climate-
related risks and opportunities.
Disclose how the organization 
identifies, assesses, and 
manages climate-related risks.Disclose the actual and potential 
impacts of climate-related 
risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning 
where such information is 
material.
Disclose the metrics and targets 
used to assess and manage 
relevant climate-related risks 
and opportunities where such 
information is material.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 76Each quarter, the Executive Board is informed of climate-related risks and 
opportunities and aligns the reporting of all significant risks and opportu-
nities throughout the company, including those related to climate issues.
Climate action is also a regular topic on the agenda of Executive Board 
meetings, since sustainability is a cornerstone of our business strategy. 
Topics covered include adapting our business model to offer sustainable 
solutions to our customers as well as the progress toward achieving our 
SBTi commitments.
The Executive Board defines the Group-wide risk policy with the aim of 
managing risks and opportunities appropriately. This includes taking  
mitigation measures to reduce the potential impact of risks on the com-
pany to an appropriate level. The Executive Board is regularly updated and 
informed of the overall internal control and risk management system, 
audit results, and significant risks and opportunities.
All sustainability activities are led by our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), 
who is also the CEO of our company. This includes Siemens Energy’s sus-
tainability program, which is fully integrated into the company’s strategy.
Management’s role
To reflect the importance of sustainability and climate action, we have 
established the Siemens Energy Sustainability Council. It holds quarterly 
and ad hoc meetings and consists of decision-makers representing  
Business Areas, Regional Hubs, and Functions.
The Sustainability Council strategically oversees the Sustainability  
Program’s realization by making key decisions to progress the program and 
the implementation of sustainability, setting priorities and focal points where needed, and acting as sustainability ambassadors both inside and 
outside of Siemens Energy. Our CEO chairs the council in his role as CSO. 
He receives regular updates on the status quo of the Sustainability  
Program and the integration of sustainability within the company’s strate-
gic and business decision-making.
The Vice President of Sustainability manages the Sustainability Function, 
which is part of the Strategy Function, and is responsible for driving and 
supporting the integration of sustainability within our strategic and busi-
ness decision-making, embedding sustainability in business processes 
through incentives and initiatives, governing the Sustainability Program 
and its implementation in the business, and coordinating company-wide 
sustainability activities, programs, and measures. The Vice President of 
Sustainability also monitors business-relevant sustainability trends, identi-
fies potential sustainability-related risks and business opportunities, and 
strategically assesses the impact on the company as well as the company’s 
influence on the external environment.
The Executive Board has established a risk management and internal con-
trol organization, led by the Head of Risk Management and Internal Con-
trol, to oversee the risk management process and further drive the integra-
tion and harmonization of existing control activities and align them with 
legal and operational requirements. To allow a meaningful discussion at 
Group level, this organization aggregates individual risks and opportunities 
with a similar cause and effect into broader risk and opportunity topics.
The Head of Risk Management and Internal Control reports quarterly to the 
Executive Board on matters relating to the implementation, operation, and 
oversight of the risk and internal control system and assists the Executive 
Board in reporting to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board.Our risk management process aims to identify relevant business risks 
throughout the organization as potential deviations from our corporate 
objectives. The management of each of our defined organizational  
reporting units is responsible for providing all relevant risks for the  
respective unit.
Organization of our sustainability governance
Sustainability Council
Sustainability Function, other Functions,  
Division and Hub sustainability business partnersSiemens Energy Executive Board
Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO)Siemens Energy Supervisory Board
Sustainability and Finance CommitteeAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 77Strategic approach
The impacts of climate change might have significant effects on our com-
pany throughout the entire value chain, including effects on markets, 
technologies, policy and legal matters, or reputation, as well as climate-  
related physical impacts on our sites, portfolio, or supply chains (e.g., from 
increasing extreme weather events). These changes will take place  
gradually over several years or decades. In particular, the trend toward 
decarbonization of the energy market has a significant impact on the  
strategy, organizational setup, and portfolio of Siemens Energy.
The markets in which we operate are experiencing rapid and significant 
changes due to the introduction of innovative and disruptive technologies 
to meet the accelerating demand for sustainable energy. Driven by global 
sustainability efforts, many market scenario outlooks have the following in 
common: electricity demand will grow faster than GDP, generation capac-
ity will grow, grid investment will rise significantly, and energy efficiency 
will be a competitive criterion in industry.
In response to these market observations, we have based our strategy on 
the following pillars: 
1. Low- or zero-emission power generation
2. Transport and storage of electricity
3. Reducing GHG footprint and energy consumption in industrial processes
We are continuously developing new products and technologies that have 
either zero emissions or significantly lower emissions than comparable 
technologies, while also driving our existing portfolio more toward  
sustainability (e.g., Blue Portfolio without SF6 gases in Transmission).  
To achieve this, we focus on the following levers: expanding renewables, 
transforming conventional power, strengthening electricity grids, driving 
industry decarbonization, and securing supply chains (see chapter  
 Strategic focus ).In parallel, we have set up fields of action that will drive innovation within 
the strategic pillars and thus form the basis of our transformation. The 
fields of action cover technology development in the short term  
(e.g., battery energy storage), medium term (e.g., industrial electric heat-
ers, industrial waste heat recovery) and long term (e.g., direct air capture, 
rotating olefins cracker). We expect the addressable market of the fields of 
action to continue to grow by around 20% CAGR until 2030. Consequently, 
we are increasing our R&D efforts and expect our revenue potential to 
reach the billion range in the same time frame.
We have developed a Climate Neutral Program (CNP) with the target of  
climate neutrality by 2030 (in our own operations). Through the CNP,  
we have developed reduction pathways for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, 
including specific Business Area targets. The strongest levers identified are:
1. Reducing energy consumption 
2. Using renewable electricity
3. Reducing SF6 emissions
4. New mobility concepts
CO2 shadow pricing is a further steering mechanism for achieving climate 
neutrality, and we believe binding CO2 price signals can support our reduc-
tion targets. These price signals encourage the use of the best technolo-
gies and business models available. Internally, Siemens Energy (excluding 
Siemens Gamesa) implemented a policy in fiscal year 2022 to consider 
GHG emissions in our CapEx decisions and ensure that new investments 
support our Climate Neutral Program. To support low-carbon investment in 
our own operations, we are using a shadow price of €100 per metric ton of 
CO2 (see chapter  Decarbonization ). With SGRE’s integration into Siemens 
Energy in fiscal year 2024, SGRE has also been working with the SE CapEx 
standards since May 2024 and thus also uses the CO2 shadow price.
Physical climate risks
The assessment of physical climate risks in our operations is managed  
by the EHS department in cooperation with external expert consultants.  In fiscal year 2023, Siemens Energy conducted physical climate change risk 
assessments for all of its major manufacturing locations around the world 
to assess the consequences of climate change using up-to-date climate 
models from Jupiter Intelligence’s Climate Score Global v2.6 (sourced April 
2022). These assessments considered aspects such as hazard peril, hazard 
level, return period, criticality, and vulnerability. In fiscal year 2024, we 
extended the scope to include all SGRE manufacturing locations with the 
same methodology.
All perils were reviewed, including changes in weather patterns (causing 
fires, hurricanes, high winds and seas, blizzards, flooding, and extreme 
temperatures), the frequency and/or severity of extreme weather events, 
and other environmental manifestations of climate change such as sea-
level rise.
• Fluvial/coastal: flood depth 100-year return period
• Wind: three-second peak gust
• Heat: days exceeding 35°C
• Drought: consecutive months of drought events
• Hail: hailstone diameter per square kilometer
• Precipitation: heavy rainfall intensity (in mm) over 24-hour precipitation
• Thunderstorm: days on which severe thunderstorms are probable
• Tornados: three-second peak gust
• Cold: cold spell duration in days
• Sea-level rise: elevation above sea level
• Storm surge: height measure of water depth above ground
These risks could impact Siemens Energy’s business through physical dam-
age to sites, equipment, or stock, as well as disruptions to operations, 
including internal and external supply networks and employee safety, 
among other impacts. Such impacts could result in the evacuation of  
personnel, the curtailment of services or suspension of operations, in-  
ability to deliver materials to job sites in line with contract schedules, loss 
of or damage to equipment and facilities, supply chain disruptions, and 
reduced productivity.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 78With these assessments, the company is able to identify the physical  
climate change risks to which the locations are likely to be exposed in the 
future, such as climate perils (floods, extreme heat, droughts), so that it 
can identify and implement mitigation measures, e.g., invest in resilience 
measures, in an attempt to further reduce and manage its risk exposure.
Using the latest climate assessments, we reviewed both short-term (2030) 
and mid-term (2060) time horizons: each with Shared Socioeconomic 
Pathways, as defined by the IPCC, of SSP1-2.6 (below 2ºC warming by 
2081–2100), SSP2-4.5 (2° to 3ºC warming by 2081–2100), SSP3-7.0 (3° to 4ºC warming by 2081–2100) and SSP5-8.5 (above 4ºC warming by 2081–
2100) global warming climate scenarios. The four scenarios reviewed 
showed that, from a global perspective, only heat, drought, and precipi-  
tation are likely to reach high and very high hazard levels.
Siemens Energy sites have been ranked based on the predicted risk  
exposure, with action plans being put in place where needed. Actions 
include infrastructure retrofitting, increasing firefighting capabilities, 
removing uncovered stock, installing water reservoirs, and taking flood 
prevention measures.In addition, our insurance department provides a natural hazard risk analy -
sis for each new building project, driving the selection process for new site 
areas. The data and information collected allow us to identify geographical 
areas of particular interest to us.
To cover the risk exposure in the supply chain, we have introduced a risk 
analysis procedure to systematically identify potential risks in the supply 
chain. Please refer to the chapter  Sustainable supply chain management .
0% 100%Wind
Tornado
Storm Surge
Precipitation
Heatwave
Hail
Flood
Earthquake
Drought
ColdwaveCurrent
0% 100%SSP 2-4.5 Scenario 2030
0% 100%SSP 2-4.5 Scenario 2060Physical climate risk assessment results for major manufacturing sites
Hazard levels: 
 Low
 Medium
 High
 Very highAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 79Due diligence
To raise awareness of ESG risks in our projects, we have introduced an ESG 
check early in the sales process to ensure risks are managed appropriately. 
We epitomize responsible business conduct and make sure to implement 
auditable levels of Do No Significant Harm (DNSH) criteria. A sustainability 
expert works alongside the sales project manager, EQS, and regional 
experts to ensure the risks are evaluated and any necessary mitigating 
actions are put in place in a timely manner.
The due diligence process also covers human rights issues.
Climate-related financing strategy
While macroeconomic uncertainties remain, we are expecting our address-
able market to grow by 9.3% (CAGR) from €246 billion in 2023 to €419  
billion in 2029. Due to investment programs in the U.S., namely the Infla-
tion Reduction Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, as well as the EU’s 
Net Zero Industrial Act and REPowerEU, the EU’s energy security strategy, 
we are expecting the North American and European markets to make up 
>50% of our addressable market by 2029.
Increasingly, ESG performance indicators are being used in sustainabili-
ty-related financing constructs, such as Green Bonds or Revolving Credit 
Facilities. Siemens Energy has issued a Revolving Credit Facility and a 
Green Bond as well as a Revolving Guarantee Facility. In fiscal year 2024, 
we updated the trajectories for the ESG performance indicators included. 
In addition, we committed to implementing an additional performance 
indicator before March 31, 2025, for the Revolving Credit Facility to better 
reflect our carbon footprint.Scenario analysis
Scenario analysis allows analysts to develop an understanding of how vari-
ous combinations of climate-related risks – both transitional and physical 
risks – may affect businesses, strategies, and financial performance over 
time. At Siemens Energy, climate scenarios have various facets and are 
used for different purposes to support our business and prepare us for 
requests from customers looking to achieve the Paris Agreement goals of 
limiting global warming and avoiding climate change impacts.
1. Corporate strategy
While we mainly use S&P Global Commodity Insights Inflections for our 
global strategic assumptions, we also include IEA STEPS and Net Zero by 
2050 (NZE 2050) in our analysis. They are applied by all businesses –  
for example, to deduce assumptions about fossil energy additions, invest-
ments, policies, and regulations. The time span until 2040/2050 reflects 
long cycles of energy investments. The results are used to inform manage-
ment about potential opportunities and threats if the scenario “compliance 
with climate goals” materializes. They are also helpful for corporate strat-
egy development, the planning process, the sales targets of our regional 
managers, and as a basis for our annual management decisions. Scenarios 
highlight the need to counterbalance fluctuating renewables and ensure 
the stability of the electricity grid.
2. Business strategy
For our business strategies, we use climate scenarios to be able to com-
pare, challenge, or complement our strategic mid- to long-term sustain-
ability-related planning processes. They also help us identify new business 
opportunities, such as investments in hydrogen and energy storage. Here, 
we use S&P Global Commodity Insights Inflections, as well as IEA STEPS, with the following rationale: S&P Global Commodity Insights Inflections, 
for example, is used for our Gas Services business with customized data for 
market planning. Our regional strategy is based on individual NDCs.  
Data provided includes, for example, power generation, installed capacity, 
retirements, and gross capacity additions by technology and fuel type, 
along with further macroeconomic indicators. IEA STEPS is used to  
incorporate a multitude of societal (e.g., push for decarbonization) and 
economic indicators (e.g., GDP, inflation, population growth) and power 
generation-specific predictions. Based on this market model, strategic 
business decisions (e.g., footprint, portfolio adaptations, marketing strate-
gies) are made, for example, to predict the evolvement of the power  
generation market in the next 5–10 years. We also use external scenarios 
for investment (CapEx/OpEx) projections. We compare how the markets 
react to extreme parameters and adjust our strategic outlook monitoring 
and/or our deduced strategic rationales accordingly. The results of the 
analysis performed in fiscal year 2024 confirmed our strategy and the  
resilience of our business.
3. Decarbonization strategy
We are committed to monitoring progress on climate action and reducing 
our exposure to climate-related risks. We have therefore incorporated  
climate considerations in our market evaluation and strategy process.  
This included the use of three market scenarios (S&P Connect Inflections, 
Green Rules, Discord) with the resulting climate outcomes for our market 
evaluation process for the first time in fiscal year 2023. In addition, as 
another first during the same fiscal year, we developed a detailed annual 
forecast of the CO2e emission footprint of products sold per Business Area, 
with the forecast going up to 2030 and building on our business planning. 
We also evaluated and decided on emission reduction levers. Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 80Management approach to climate-related risks and 
opportunities
Enterprise risk management (ERM) sustainability-related risks and oppor -
tunities are analyzed as part of our specific ERM process as well as other 
operational processes, e.g., environment, health, and safety (EHS).  
The ERM methodology, including its reporting functionality, is designed to 
provide a comprehensive overview of business risks and opportunities 
across Business Areas and Functions, e.g., corporate sustainability, EHS, 
supply chain, and financing activities. This provides a unique perspective, 
allowing any deviations from the company’s objectives to be detected 
across the entire organization.
Our risks and opportunities are categorized in a five-dimensional plan, 
capturing the most significant challenges to our business. They are catego-
rized as “Climate,” “Strategic,” “Operations,” “Financial,” and “Compliance,” 
with each category covering a broad spectrum of underlying associated 
topics.
Risks and opportunities are prioritized in the dimensions of impact and 
likelihood, considering both quantitative (financial, defined as potential 
loss of pre-tax profit) and qualitative impact perspectives (non-financial, 
defined as either business objectives, media/reputation, regulatory bodies’ 
activities, or management time/attention). In this context, impact 
describes the potential adverse effect on our objectives while likelihood 
refers to the probability of occurrence.The impact and likelihood of climate-related opportunities and risks are 
assessed on a short-term (up to 3 years)¹, mid-term (3–5 years)², and long-
term (5–30 years)³ basis, giving us an understanding of climate-risk  
development over multiple time horizons. Multiple time horizons are  
particularly critical in building business resilience, understanding vulnera-
bilities (i.e., the susceptibility of a company in terms of its adaptive  
and coping capacity regarding a specific risk) and velocity (speed of a spe-
cific risk impacting the organization upon occurrence). This is especially 
relevant for transitional and physical climate-related risks.
Both impact and likelihood are measured on a scale ranging from 1 to 9, 
with the most critical scoring highest, and are used to calculate an overall 
exposure score for each risk and opportunity. The exposure score is used  
to rank the risks and opportunities, with the most critical again scoring 
highest, and categorize them as “low,” “medium,” “high,” or “major.” Impact 
represents a financial magnitude ranging from “marginal” (up to €10 mil-
lion) to “major” (exceeding €125 million). Likelihood ranges from “unlikely” 
(below 20%) to “certain” (above 80%).
Each risk and opportunity in the context of ERM (irrespective of the expo-
sure level) must have a response plan to either mitigate the risk or pursue 
the opportunity. All response plans are agreed upon by the management 
level concerned and are founded on the general response strategy of 
“Avoid,” “Reduce,” “Transfer,” “Watch,” and “Retain” (for risks) or “Pursue” 
(for opportunities).Climate-related risk and opportunity management and review
The Vice President of Sustainability hosts quarterly risk and opportunity 
reviews for the climate-related risks captured using the ERM reporting 
functionality, thus tracking changes in regulations, market shifts, and 
updates from across the business. High-level risk and opportunity owners 
are expected to join the review. This ensures a robust management review 
process and allows us to identify new risks and opportunities as well as any 
potential changes to existing ones.
An annual external audit is performed on the ERM system, including  
climate-related risks and opportunities, to ensure industry and regulatory 
standards are upheld.
Risk and opportunity reporting
All responsible risk or opportunity owners are required to update their 
reported description, evaluation, and key mitigation measures instantly if 
significant changes occur. On a quarterly basis, following the quarterly 
closing procedures and communicated reporting deadlines, a summarized 
risk and opportunity register is reported to, reviewed by, and released by 
the Executive Board.
Each defined organizational reporting unit reports its updated risk register 
to the next higher organizational level for further evaluation and analysis. 
Therefore, risks and opportunities with a similar cause and effect are aggre-
gated bottom-up into broader risk and opportunity topics. The resulting 
aggregated topics form the basis for the evaluation of the company-wide 
risk and opportunity situation and allow for a meaningful discussion of 
risks and opportunities at Siemens Energy Group level. Climate change is 
integrated into this process in that it influences risks and opportunities 
across the different organizational units.
The ERM reporting process is mandatory, company-wide, and includes all 
risks and opportunities, i.e., both climate-related and non-climate-related 
risks and opportunities.¹  Siemens Energy defines a time horizon of up to 3 years as short-term, since for short-term analysis, the market can be derived from a bottom-up analysis of the pipeline of projects in development (while for longer-term views, we have 
to rely on a top-down approach).
²  Siemens Energy defines a time horizon above 3 and up to 5 years as medium-term. Market developments for this horizon are typically derived from outlook scenarios as provided by third parties (e.g., S&P Global Commodity Insights, 
IEA, Bloomberg). Even if the market development may not end up being the most likely scenario, this gives us a rather conservative view that enforces reasonable planning robust enough to withstand potential deviations from the 
scenario assumed.
³  For the long-term horizon, we are preparing holistic long-term energy concepts for countries by using various scenarios such as S&P Global Commodity Insights, IEA STEPS, IEA APS, or IEA Net Zero by 2050. The aim is to better assess 
the consequences and robustness of the current and alternative energy plans we may be proposing. This helps us identify the most reasonable plan of action while maintaining adequate robustness if real-world developments differ 
from the assumptions made. Beyond this horizon, any predictions are subject to high uncertainty and are unlikely to have much impact on today’s business. Nevertheless, we are using state-of-the-art climate models (SSPs by IPCC on 
the basis of the AR6) to account for any potential risks beyond this horizon.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 81Climate-related opportunities 
Opportunity driver Identified potential impact Opportunity realization measures
Products and services
We see the opportunity to significantly 
accelerate Siemens Energy’s growth by 
developing a green product portfolio that 
meets the market trend toward net zero 
emissions.
Exposure score:
Short-term High
Mid-term High
Long-term Major•  We strengthen our decarbonization portfolio and grow markets while we continuously adapt our business 
models and our product, service, and solutions portfolio to the changing customer and market behavior.
•  New products/projects comprise, e.g., H2 production, SF6-free high-voltage equipment, decarbonized heat, 
H2-fired gas turbines, or energy storage for our clients in existing power plants – as standalone solutions 
for grids and in combination with renewable energies like PV or wind.
•  It is expected that many countries will increase their (financial and regulatory) support for climate-friendly 
technologies and solutions to reach climate neutrality.•  Continuous monitoring and adaptation of our portfolio based on customer and market needs, supported by 
close observation of the market and regulatory developments.
•  Constant screening of the technology landscape to identify (early-stage) technologies that might be crucial 
in the mid and long term to sustain and accelerate Siemens Energy’s future business.
•  Investment in targeted R&D activities that support our three strategic pillars and fields of action.
•  The four global Innovation Centers will play a major role in realizing the energy transition in the regions 
together with our customers and our partnering ecosystem (industrial partners, academia, research insti-
tutes, start-ups).
•  Through the Innovation Centers, governmental programs like the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) in the U.S.  
or RepowerEU in the EU are being addressed within the fields of action to maximize external funding for 
ongoing and new developments.
Markets
The opportunity that SE may increase  
operating earnings and/or profitability due  
to favorable market developments, such as 
positive macro-economic developments, 
faster market shift toward decarbonization,  
or additional public support for energy-  
related infrastructure.
Exposure score: High•  Policies currently proposed by the European Commission, including the Net Zero Industry Act and a proposal 
to reform the European electricity market, may lead to increased demand for our offers. Existing governmen-
tal programs and policies may also create more market demand than we currently expect.
•  The increasing need for energy security and autonomy presents further opportunities for SE to expand 
operating earnings and profitability. This could include investing in energy infrastructure in countries that 
are seeking to reduce their dependence on imported energy sources.
•  Market shifts toward renewable energy are expected to have a positive impact on various aspects of our 
business, including wind power with incentives and government-funded investments becoming available 
across the globe (i.e., IRA bill).•  SE market opportunities are monitored through the SE market evaluation process along with regular 
competitor analyses. SE market evaluation considers alternative market scenarios, including accelerated 
decarbonization, portfolio management, and R&D planning processes.
•  Opportunity-based capital allocation is enabled through the consideration of accelerated decarbonization 
market scenarios.
•  Key policy and funding initiatives identified alongside thorough guidance on funding instruments and 
political support on interaction with relevant authorities.Climate-related risks and opportunities
If we fail to adapt our business model and our product portfolio to specific 
regional demand, or are too slow in doing so, this may have a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of opera-
tions. We are constantly screening climate-related developments –  
e.g., decarbonization programs of our customers, investor requirements, 
or regulatory frameworks – and identifying critical projects through a  sustainability check to determine risk exposure. Relevant findings are 
shared with the Sustainability Council.
We have identified the Gas Services and Transformation of Industry  
Business Areas as the most affected by climate-related risks and decarbon-
ization trends. They are therefore being continuously monitored through 
our risk management process.Based on the common TCFD risk categorization, the table below describes 
both the risks and opportunities arising from climate change for our  
business.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 82Climate-related risks 
Risk driver Identified potential impact Risk mitigation measures
Transitional – Technology
Exposure score:
Short-term High
Mid-term Major
Long-term Major•  Climate change triggers significant changes in our markets and customer requirements (e.g., decarbonized 
energy systems). Our operating results depend on our ability to adapt to those changes and to optimize our 
cost base accordingly.
•  Even if we succeed in developing innovative technologies, our competitors may be able to commercialize 
similar technologies faster or more successfully than us.•  Analysis of our Group portfolio, identifying three areas of focus – core, growth, and transformation –  
to address and enhance identified technology needs in the R&D planning process and beyond.
•  R&D guardrail and consistent decision-making for R&D reallocation reflecting strategic (transformational) 
focus of the company.
•  The fields of action are the main tool to drive transformative technology developments at SE  
(Siemens Energy). Their most essential task is to shape SE’s (green) technology portfolio of the future  
(e.g., power-to-X, heat pump) to suit future energy market demands and satisfy future customer needs 
(e.g., H2 production, energy storage, resilient grids, decarbonized heat, H2-fired gas turbines).
•  Four Innovation Centers have been established across four regions to bring SE’s innovation activities closer 
to the customer and leverage regional partner ecosystems, ensuring SE’s developments fit customer and 
market needs. Furthermore, leveraging our regional partner ecosystem (industrial partners, academia, 
research institutes, start-ups) in these four regions will ensure efficient and focused portfolio development.
Transitional – Market
Exposure score:
Short-term High
Mid-term High
Long-term Major•  There is a risk that, due to the sustainability trend in the energy markets (e.g., the shift from fossil fuels 
toward renewables, intensified competitive behavior, low demand for hydrocarbons), unexpected geopoliti-
cal developments, or changes in customer preference, we may face reduced demand for certain parts of 
our products and services (e.g., fossil-based portfolio, countries depending on high oil prices may reduce 
their investment in energy infrastructure and/or default on payments).
•  Due to the rapid rise of these trends, we may not be able to adapt our business model and product portfolio 
to such disruptive developments.•  Monitoring of market risks through the Siemens Energy common market evaluation process along with 
regular competitor analyses. Individual response aspects are addressed for all SE units (Divisions and 
Corporate Functions).
•  Risk responses include intensive divisional cost-out efforts, tracking of and tailored responses to competitor 
attacks in service, capacity adjustment to market conditions, and product cost-out.
•  Constant screening of climate-related developments in the decarbonization programs of customers and 
investors, to derive risk exposure and share relevant findings with the Sustainability Council for further 
action in the respective area of responsibility.
•  To raise awareness of ESG risks in our projects, we have implemented an ESG check early in the process and 
work closely with the relevant Functions/Divisions to ensure necessary mitigation actions are identified and 
implemented in a timely manner.
Transitional – Policy and legal
Exposure score:
Short-term Medium
Mid-term Medium
Long-term Medium•  The markets of our Gas and Power business are affected by changes in national energy regulations, such as 
support of renewable energy, carbon pricing, and climate change targets, as well as the modernization of 
energy and electricity markets. These will provide an incentive to adapt current products and develop 
sustainable solutions leveraged by supporting regulations.
•  Risks arising from non-compliance with the Code of Conduct or with legal, contractual, or (emerging) 
regulatory requirements might affect Siemens Energy, e.g., through legal requirements on emissions.
•  CO2 taxes, financing restrictions for GHG-emitting technologies, or declining subsidy levels might affect the 
financial sustainability of some of our business segments.
•  As an example, the EU Taxonomy legally requires Siemens Energy to publicly disclose sustainability-related 
financial figures, potentially affecting future investment decisions by external investors.•  Monitoring current and emerging regulations in our major markets.
•  Raising awareness of these new regulations across the business to assess the impact that regulation can 
have on our offerings.
•  Informing affected businesses as early as possible to create room for timely portfolio adaptations (products 
and services).
•  Where applicable, informing on emerging regulations either directly through contact with the relevant 
regulatory bodies, via associations, or together with similarly affected companies to avoid or lessen the 
foreseen impact.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 83Risk driver Identified potential impact Risk mitigation measures
Transitional – Reputation
Exposure score:
Short-term High
Mid-term Major
Long-term High•  Increased public pressure around the decarbonization trend might cause reputational damage for our 
company if the portfolio transition and the reduction of our environmental impact is not executed quickly 
enough or not at all. This would result in adverse effects on our business (e.g., loss of tenders, discontinua-
tion or adaptation of certain products at an earlier time than expected) and financial condition (e.g. 
unattractive investment opportunity for investors, divestments of ESG-oriented investors).
•  Increasing public pressure (e.g., media campaigns, boycotts) may accelerate the shift from fossil-based 
energy generation toward renewables.
•  If the strategic implementation deviates from what has been communicated, this may result in a lack of 
credibility for external stakeholders and partners.•  Implementing a climate action program, including targets, to create transparency on decarbonization levers 
and aim to decarbonize our portfolio.
•  Regularly performing a double materiality analysis to understand changing stakeholder expectations.
•  Constantly screening climate-related developments in the strategic programs of our customers and inves-
tors to derive risk exposure and share relevant findings with the Sustainability Council for further action in 
the respective area of responsibility.
•  ESG risks in projects are addressed at different stages of the process from early bid management through to 
project execution involving various expert teams across the company. We work closely with Project/Custom-
er Finance & Sales to discuss the identification and implementation of mitigation actions.
•  Creating transparency on ESG performance for stakeholders, e.g., through the Sustainability Report, and 
contributing to relevant ESG ratings and standards.
Physical risk – Acute
Increased severity of extreme weather events
Exposure score:
Short-term Medium
Mid-term Medium•  Severe weather, such as fires, hurricanes, high winds and seas, blizzards, and extreme temperatures, may 
lead to an evacuation of personnel, curtailment of services or suspension of operations, inability to deliver 
materials to job sites in line with contract schedules, loss of or damage to equipment and facilities, supply 
chain disruptions, or reduced productivity. Readiness for these emergencies will lead to increased resilience.
•  We may face the risk of failing to identify all global climate risks (e.g., floods, storms, etc.) due to changes 
in climate conditions that result in damage to property, an impact on business continuity, or the need for 
investment in preventive measures.•  Continuously evaluating and monitoring changes in physical climate parameters based on global studies, 
weather statistics, and trends based on the international experience of insurance companies.
•  Performing local risk assessments based on our EHS emergency management and developing protection 
concepts where necessary.
•  Our insurance department provides a natural hazard risk analysis for each new building project that  
supports the selection process for the respective site areas. The data and information collected allow us  
to identify geographical areas where we need to pay special attention to risks from changes to physical 
climate parameters.
•  Constant improvement of our EHS Emergency Response Management System and the supply chain  
response.
Physical risk – Chronic
Longer-term shifts in climate pattern
Exposure score:
Long-term High•  Long-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g., longer and warmer seasons, extreme cold, drought) may affect 
our and our customers’ operations and could result in the development of new markets and business 
models. This would require changes to our product portfolio and project execution.
•  We may face the risk of failing to identify all global climate risks (e.g., floods, storms, etc.) due to changes 
in climate conditions that result in damage to property, an impact on business continuity, or the need for 
investment in preventive measures.• Creating transparency on environmental stressors and impacts to evaluate, e.g., water stress on locations.
•  We are analyzing the potential impacts on our locations at a global level using different pathways and 
taking into consideration the total insured values.
•  Based on this baselining, we are implementing preventive measures, supported by integrated management 
systems and insurance risk reports.
• Consistent improvement of our EHS Emergency Response Management System.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 84Metrics and targets
The impacts of climate change, coupled with rising global demand for 
energy, pose an enormous challenge to all stakeholders if we want to meet 
the Paris Agreement goal of limiting global warming to well below 2°C and 
pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C. Siemens Energy 
aims to do its share to decarbonize the energy sector and aspires to reach 
net zero emissions across the value chain.
Therefore, we evaluate Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions every year, have set 
ourselves both short- and mid-term targets for all scopes, and measure 
performance against those targets.
The greatest potential to reduce GHG emissions is in our products, solu-
tions, and services, since they make up more than 99% of our overall foot-
print (Scope 3: use of sold products). We are committed to a 28% reduction 
by 2030 from a 2019 baseline¹. The SBTi confirms that our target for the 
use of our products sold is in line with the Paris Agreement goal of limiting 
global warming to well below 2°C. For the evaluation of emissions from 
the use of sold products, we follow the GHG Protocol.
Siemens Energy aims to be climate neutral in its own operations by 2030 
and to compensate for remaining emissions from then on. This includes 
the reduction of absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by at least 46% by 2025 
from base year 2019. This is an even greater ambition than our initial tar -
get year, which was originally 2030, as validated by the SBTi for Siemens 
Energy (without Siemens Gamesa). The strongest levers to achieve climate 
neutrality by 2030 lie in reducing energy consumption, using renewable 
electricity, reducing SF6 emissions, and introducing new mobility concepts. 
In fiscal year 2023, we achieved our target to have 100% of Siemens 
Energy’s global electricity consumption from renewable sources.
Our suppliers are an important part of the value chain, and we encourage 
them to take climate protection measures. Emissions reduction is an inte-
gral part of our suppliers’ supply chain management (see chapter  Sus-
tainable supply chain management ). For Siemens Energy, we have set the 
Our climate roadmap
Targets
Lever100% renewable  
electricity (SBTi¹)-46% absolute  
reduction (SBTi 
validated for 2030¹)beyond 2023 2025 2030
Climate neutrality-30% per € spent Aspiration 
to reach net 
zero along the 
value chain
 Supply chain (Scope 3 upstream)  Own operations (Scope 1 and 2)  Portfolio (Scope 3 downstream)• Coal exit • Energy efficiency & digitalization, e.g., waste heat recovery, combined heat and power
• Increasing renewables & electrification, e.g., transmission, storage, e-drives
• Fuel shift & GHG-free products, e.g., green fuels, blue portfolio
•  Emission removal technologies, e.g., carbon capture and storage 
(CCS, BECCS, DAC)
• Reducing energy consumption
• Using renewable electricity (100% by 2023)• Reducing SF6 emissions (60% by 2030)
• New mobility concepts (e.g., 100% CO2-neutral benefit cars by 2030)
• Conducting decarbonization due diligence assessments covering 75% of the CO2e emissions of the supply chain
• Implementing mitigation measures with suppliers-28% absolute  
reduction (SBTi¹)
¹ Siemens Energy (excluding Siemens Gamesa).Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 85target of reducing our relative Scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased 
goods and services, as well as transportation and distribution, by 30% per 
procurement volume unit (€ spent) until 2030 based on fiscal year 2018.
For more information on our decarbonization efforts, energy consumption, 
and related GHG emissions, please refer to the chapter  Decarbonization .
GHG emissions
Our GHG emissions are externally verified by KPMG (please see  Auditor’s 
report  on page 88).
Scope 3 downstream (use of sold products)
Siemens Energy’s total Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products 
during the reporting period amounted to 1.334 billion metric tons of CO2e 
(base year 2019: 1.5 billion metric tons). Compared to fiscal year 2023, 
there is an increase of 0.235 billion tons in absolute numbers and a 
decrease of 11.1% compared to the base year 2019. Intensity has increased 
by 22%, compared to fiscal year 2023. The main reason for this increase is a 
comparable increase in order entry for all Business Areas. This is already an 
indication of how challenging it will be to reduce emissions while at the 
same time serving our customers.
Scope 1 & 2
In fiscal year 2024, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased by around 9%  
or 17 metric tons, resulting in a Scope 1 and 2 intensity of 5.71×10-6 t CO2e/€ 
of revenue in 2024 compared to 5.78×10-6 t CO2e/€ of revenue in 2023.  
The increase in emissions was mainly caused by more gas turbine testing 
(mainly prototype tests) and more compressor testing (mainly factory 
acceptance tests). Additionally, a minor impact came from heating.  
Both the tests and the heating were reduced in fiscal year 2023 due to 
 government regulations  because of the Russian war against Ukraine to 
save natural gas.
Deviations were identified in the fleet emissions calculations, resulting in a 
restatement of the 2023 fiscal year figures.Scope 3 upstream
The calculated upstream footprint for fiscal year 2024 is 9,238 metric kilo-
tons CO2e, resulting in an intensity of 0.408, which is 0.1% higher in total 
emissions but 1.3% lower in intensity compared to fiscal year 2023.EU Taxonomy
For fiscal year 2022, and in accordance with a simplified approach allowed 
by the EU for first-time application, Siemens Energy reported the shares of 
taxonomy-eligible economic activities in revenues, capital expenditure 
(CapEx), and operating expenditure (OpEx) in relation to the currently 
developed environmental targets “Climate change mitigation” and “Cli-  
mate change adaptation.” Since fiscal year 2023, the reporting obligation  
also extends to the taxonomy-aligned shares of revenue, CapEx, and  
OpEx and the recognition of natural gas and nuclear energy activities.  
 For further information, please refer to  Siemens Energy Annual Report 
2024, EU Taxonomy .Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions1Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2024 2023
Scope 1 175 160
Scope 2 22 20
Total 197 180
Intensity (t CO2e/€ of revenue) 5.71×10-65.78×10-6
¹ Figures for 2023 have been changed due to deviations in data calculation.
Scope 3 upstream emissions Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2024 2023
Total 9,238 9,230¹
Intensity (kg CO2e/€ of purchasing volume) 0.408² 0.414
¹ 325 kilotons of the 775 kilotons of CO2e emissions were calculated using a consumption-based method.
² Reduction compared to base year 2018 (baseline calculation was partially extrapolated): 19.6%EU Taxonomy Fiscal year
(%) 2024 2023
Share of revenue from EU Taxonomy-eligible activities 74.2 73.4
Share of capital expenditures from EU Taxonomy-eligible 
activities83.5 72.2
Share of operational expenditures from EU Taxonomy-  
eligible activities80.8 83.1
Share of revenue from EU Taxonomy-eligible and -aligned 
activities42.9 37.5
Share of capital expenditures from EU Taxonomy-eligible 
and -aligned activities64.7 51.0
Share of operational expenditures from EU Taxonomy-  
eligible and -aligned activities41.9 40.4Scope 3 downstream emissions¹ Fiscal year
(1,000  metric tons CO2e) 2024 2023
Total11,333,642 1,098,370
Intensity (t CO2e/€ of order intake) 0.027 0.022
¹  Includes category “use of sold products” only (well-to-tank emissions are included, biogenic emissions have 
been excluded). Siemens Gamesaʼs emissions equal zero.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 86Siemens Energy’s decarbonization activities cover its complete value chain. 
Our methodology follows the recommendations of the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol. We evaluate and disclose the most material categories of the 
GHG Protocol, including category 11 – Use of sold products, since this 
accounts for the vast majority of our overall GHG emissions. We seek to 
reduce the CO2e emissions from the use phase of our sold products by 28% 
until 2030. This target has been validated by the Science-Based Targets  
Initiative (SBTi).
Definition: Scope 3 – Use of sold products
Scope 3 emissions arise from sources owned or controlled by other entities 
in the value chain (e.g., material suppliers, third-party logistics providers, 
waste management suppliers, travel suppliers, lessees and lessors, franchi-
sees, retailers, employees, and customers).
Category 11 of the GHG Protocol (Scope 3: Use of sold products) includes 
emissions from the use of goods and services sold by Siemens Energy in 
the reporting year, considering the total expected lifetime emissions.
Relevance of Scope 3 – Use of sold products
In the course of our evaluation to set ourselves a science-based emission 
reduction target, we calculated the complete Siemens Energy CO2e foot-
print based on fiscal year 2019 (Scope 1, 2, 3 up- and downstream). The 
results showed that >95% of our overall CO2e footprint originates from the 
use of our sold products.Sources of CO2e emissions at Siemens Energy
• Products that directly consume energy (fuels or electricity) during use:  
 
–  CO2e emissions are basically generated through the combustion of 
fossil fuels (e.g., natural gas in a gas turbine). The amount of CO2e 
emissions varies depending on the type of fuel (e.g., natural gas,  
biomass, hydrogen) and the energy efficiency of the product (gas  
turbine, steam turbine, electric motor, etc.).  
 –  CO2e emissions are basically generated by large electrical consumers 
(e.g., motors, drives, pumps) or from power losses (e.g., transformers) 
of the used products.
• Products that contain or form greenhouse gases that are emitted during 
use: 
 
To a minor extent, the transmission portfolio might be emitting CO2e 
due to SF6 gas leakages during maintenance or operational use at cus-
tomer sites.
Scope and boundaries
Data on CO2e emissions is reported within the limits of the customer use 
phase of a product related to a certain Business Area. Therefore, CO2e emis-
sions occurring during other phases of the life cycle of a portfolio unit, 
such as in the supply chain, during production, or upon end-of-life disposal, 
are not considered as emissions from the use of our sold products.SE methodology
Calculating emissions from category 11 typically requires product design 
specifications and assumptions about how customers use our products 
(e.g., use profiles, assumed product lifetimes).
Typical activity data needed to calculate emissions from products that 
directly consume energy (fuels or electricity) during use:
• Total lifetime expected 
• Quantity of products sold
• Fuel used per use of product 
• Electricity consumption per use of product
Emission factors needed:
• Life cycle emission factors for fuels
• Life cycle emission factors for electricity
Typical activity data needed to calculate emissions from products that con-
tain or form GHGs that are emitted during use:
• Total quantity of products sold
• Quantity of GHGs contained per product
• Percentage of GHGs released throughout the lifetime of the product 
Emission factors needed:
• Global Warming Potential (GWP) of the GHGs contained in the product, 
expressed in units of carbon dioxide per unit kilogram of the GHGSiemens Energy methodology for calculating CO2e emissions 
from Scope 3 – Use of sold productsAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 87Although the GHG Protocol contains clear guidance, there are still many 
assumptions that must be made when calculating the footprint of a prod-
uct over its lifetime. Our principles are transparency, credibility, and a 
somewhat conservative perspective. For our assumptions, we rely on the 
Business Areas as well as on external, credible sources, such as energy 
market forecasts from reputable providers.
At Siemens Energy, the evaluation of CO2e emissions is based on project lists 
with order entry in the respective reporting year. Internal sources for calcu-
lation parameters are diverse and include several project or product data-
bases, service databases, product brochures, and expert opinions. We use 
external sources for the emission factors (global grid mix, fuel combustion).
Emission factors
Siemens Energy uses life cycle emission factors (including well-to-tank 
emissions) to calculate Scope 3 emissions related to fuels and energy con-
sumed. Compared to combustion emission factors, life cycle emission fac-
tors represent all emissions in the upstream supply chain of fuels and 
energy (incl. extraction, refining, and transportation of the raw fuel 
sources; excl. flaring and venting).
Emission factors for fuel combustion are based on the IPCC Default Emis-
sion Factors for Stationary Combustion in the Energy Industries while the 
global grid mix is based on the IEA World Energy Outlook. Emission factors 
are checked and updated on a yearly basis.
Further calculation parameters:
• Emissions calculated for a particular year include the lifetime emissions 
of all the products sold in that year. The emissions produced from our 
already installed fleet are not included in that year’s calculation.
• Emission calculations are performed based on assumptions about yearly 
operating hours and an estimated lifetime in years.
• Energy efficiency is based on ISO values or expert estimates.
• Fuel type is based on internal project lists.Service business
Service business is not part of the evaluation of Scope 3 emissions from 
the use of sold products.
Improving data quality over time
As markets are changing, we need to make sure our calculation parameters 
are conservative but still reflect reality. For example, the share of renew -
ables in the global grid mix is increasing, and the emission factor for elec-
tricity is changing over time. This needs to be reflected in our calculations.
We also revisited how we consider H2 co-firing, and thus considered the 
planned share of H2 from a co-firing project in fiscal year 2022 in our calcu-
lations. A customer buying an H2-ready gas turbine is not evidence that it 
will actually run on H2. Therefore, we consider H2 co-firing only if the cus-
tomer shares a specific time plan for using H2 and indicates to what extent 
H2 is going to be used.
While gas turbines have historically been powered by fossil fuels through-
out their lifetime, this will obviously change in the future. Many countries, 
including our most relevant customer markets, have committed to a net 
zero economy in 2050 and a net zero electricity system even earlier. This is 
why we decided to include this change in our calculations for the first time 
and assume that the turbines we sell now will not run on unabated fossil 
fuels after 2050.
Base year greenhouse gas (GHG) recalculation policy
Siemens Energy uses fiscal year 2019 as the base year for our greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emission calculation for Scope 1, 2, and 3 (category 11: Use of 
sold products).
In order to accurately track progress toward our science-based targets, we 
will adjust our base year emissions inventory to account for significant changes, described below, if the changes drive an increase/decrease in 
emissions of greater than 5% versus the initial baseline, in accordance with 
the GHG Protocol guidance and the SBTi Net Zero Standard. We may also 
choose to recalculate our baseline for changes below 5%, especially when 
structural changes occur.
Structural changes
Structural changes that significantly impact our base year GHG emissions 
and may trigger an adjustment of the baseline include acquisitions, divest-
ments, and mergers. When significant structural changes occur in the mid-
dle of a year, the current and baseline year will be recalculated for the 
entire year. In the event of an acquisition, in order to ensure that full and 
accurate data is available, a recalculation will be carried out within one 
year after the structural change occurred.
Calculation methodology changes
Methodology changes that significantly impact our base year GHG  
emissions and may trigger an adjustment of the baseline include updated 
emission factors, improved data accuracy, and changes in calculation 
methodologies.
Data deviations or other changes
We will recalculate our emissions in the event that we discover a signifi-
cant deviation or a number of cumulative deviations that together are sig-
nificant. A significant change in our organizational or operational bound-
aries may likewise result in an adjustment of the baseline.
Baseline adjustments will be made at the end of each fiscal year if we find 
any of the changes described above to have occurred during the reporting 
period that may require us to recalculate our base year. We publicly restate 
our baseline when we report the latest carbon footprint for the previous 
financial year.Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 88We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the sections 1 
“The company”, 2 “Decarbonizing our business” and 3 “Responsible opera-
tions” in the Sustainability Report of Siemens Energy AG, Munich (herein-
after the “Group”) for the reporting period from October 1, 2023 to Sep-
tember 30, 2024 (hereinafter the “report”).
Not subject to our assurance engagement are interviews presented in the 
report as well as any prospective disclosures and links to other web pages. 
Responsibilities of management 
The legal representatives of Siemens Energy are responsible for the prepa-
ration of the report in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting 
Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative, in combination with internal 
guidelines (hereinafter the “Reporting Criteria”).
This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate sus-
tainability reporting methods and making assumptions and estimates about 
individual sustainability disclosures of the Group that are reasonable in the 
circumstances. Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal 
control as they consider necessary to enable the preparation of a report 
that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Independence and quality assurance of the assurance practitioner’s 
firm
We have complied with the independence and quality assurance require-
ments set out in the national legal provisions and professional pronounce-
ments, in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and 
Chartered Accountants (in Germany) and the IDW Standard on Quality 
Management 1: Requirements for Quality Management in Audit Firms (IDW 
QMS 1 (09.2022)).
Responsibility of the assurance practitioner 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with limited assurance on the 
report based on our assurance engagement.
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance 
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Informa-
tion” issued by the IAASB. This standard requires that we plan and perform 
the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether any 
matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the com-
pany’s report, are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with 
the aforementioned Reporting Criteria.In a limited assurance engagement, the procedures performed are less exten-
sive than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and accordingly, a substan-
tially lower level of assurance is obtained. The selection of the assurance pro-
cedures is subject to the professional judgment of the assurance practitioner.
In the course of our assurance engagement we have, among other things, 
performed the following assurance procedures and other activities:
• Interviewing employees at Group level in order to gain an understand-
ing of the process for determining material sustainability topics and the 
respective boundaries of Siemens Energy
• A risk analysis, including media research, to identify relevant sustain-
ability aspects for Siemens Energy in the reporting period
• Reviewing the suitability of internally developed Reporting Criteria
• Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and pro-
cesses for determining, processing and monitoring of sustainability dis-
closures included in the scope of this engagement, including the con-
solidation of the dataLimited assurance report of the independent auditor
TO THE MANAGEMENT BOARD OF SIEMENS ENERGY AG, MUNICHAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 89• Inquiries of personnel at Group level responsible for determining disclo-
sures on concepts, due-diligence processes, results and risks, for con-
ducting internal controls and consolidation of the disclosures
• Evaluation of selected internal and external documentation
• An analytical review of the data and trend explanations of quantitative 
information submitted by all sites for consolidation at Group level
• Evaluation of local data collection, validation and reporting processes as 
well as the reliability of reported data based on samples at the sites in 
Jundiaí (Brasil), Aalborg (Denmark) and Finspång (Sweden)
• Assessment of the overall presentation of the disclosures Assurance opinion
Based on the assurance procedures performed and the evidence obtained, 
nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sec-
tions 1 “The company”, 2 “Decarbonizing our business” and 3 “Responsible 
operations” in the Sustainability Report of Siemens Energy AG, Munich for 
the period from October 1, 2023 to September 30, 2024 have not been 
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Crite-
ria. We do not express an assurance opinion on interviews presented in 
the report as well as any prospective disclosures and links to other web 
pages.
Restriction of use
This assurance report is solely addressed to Siemens Energy AG, Munich.
Our assignment for Siemens Energy AG and professional liability is gov -
erned by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer (German 
Public Auditors) and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (German Public Audit Firms) (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und 
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2024 
(www.kpmg.de/AAB_2024_EN). By reading and using the information con-
tained in this assurance report, each recipient confirms having taken note 
of provisions of the General Engagement Terms (including the limitation 
of our liability for negligence to EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and 
accepts the validity of the attached General Engagement Terms with 
respect to us. 
Munich, December 10, 2024
KPMG AG
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft  
Geier Vogl  
Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin 
(German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor)Annex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2024Page 90Published by
Siemens Energy AG
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich
Germany
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
www.siemens-energy.com/sustainability
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Contact
sustainability@siemens-energy.com
Concept, editing, and layout in cooperation with:
Accenture GmbH, Kronberg im Taunus, Germany
https://www.accenture.com/de-deImprintAnnex The company Foreword Content Responsible operations Decarbonizing our business Annex
 siemens-energy.com
 x.com/Siemens_Energy
 linkedin.com/siemens-energy
Published by
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany
Sustainability: sustainability@siemens-energy.com  
Media Relations: press@siemens-energy.com  
Investor Relations: investorrelations@siemens-energy.com
siemens-energy.com/sustainability  
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.