Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 4 
 
Berlin , May 08 , 2024  
Comprehensive restructuring measures and 
long -term plan for profitable growth in wind 
business initiated / Leadership  change at 
Siemens Gamesa / Jochen Eickholt hands 
over leadership to Vinod Philip  
• Comprehensive measures initiated  for the operational restructuring of Siemens Gamesa  
• Next phase of integration launched,  and long -term strategic development of the wind business 
introduced , with the aim of achieving a double -digit operating margin  
• Jochen Eickholt hands over CEO function to Vinod Philip on August 1 and leaves by mutual 
agreement on September 30, 2024  
 
Important decisions in the wind power division: Jochen Eickholt (62) has informed the Board of 
Directors of Siemens Gamesa that he will step down from his position as CEO by mutual agreement 
on July 31, 2024 and leave the company on September 30, 2024. He will be succeeded by 
Vinod  Philip (50) on August 1, 2024, under whose leadership the wind power division will be 
integrated into the Group's management structure and for whom operational responsibility will be 
assumed. Jochen Eickholt will continue to over see the orderly and smooth handover during the 
transition period. Vinod Philip's successor as Head of Global Functions (including IT, Purchasing, 
Innovation, Logistics, Project Management) will be announced at a later date.  
 
"I would like to thank Jochen Eickholt personally and on behalf of Siemens Energy for his 
commitment in turbulent times. In his former role as a member of the Managing Board of 
Siemens  Energy, Jochen made a major contribution to the very successful development of the 
Gas Services and Transformation of Industry Divisions. In a very difficult situation at 
Siemens  Gamesa, Jochen laid the central foundations for the urgently needed reorganization and 
new start within Siemens Energy. It is only fair to emphasize that the causes of the quality problems 
did not fall under his tenure as CEO. With the concrete implementat ion of the multi -year 
restructuring plan agreed today, the time has now also come for a generational change at Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 4 
 
Siemens  Gamesa. Vinod Philip is an excellent and highly esteemed manager. He has the best of 
both worlds: As Head of Service  of Large Power Generation  he has gained operational experience 
and as Chief Technology Officer and responsible Member of the Executive Board of the Global 
Functions Division he has successfully managed central functions critical to success," says Siemens 
Energy CEO Christian Bruch.  
 
Siemens Gamesa has initiated comprehensive restructuring measures and steps for long -term 
strategic development with the aim of achieving a double -digit operating margin. The aim of the 
measures is to achiev e break -even by 2026 and then returning to profitable growth. The company 
will remain active in both the onshore and offshore business.  
 
In future, the onshore business will focus primarily on markets that offer a stable regulatory 
framework and in which Siemens Gamesa can optimally and profitably meet the needs of its 
customers with its product ranges. Specifically, these are the European domestic market and the 
USA. Other local markets are only served in new business if this makes economic sense in the 
respective case. The production ca pacities in the onshore area will be adapted to this new 
orientation. The most important task in the offshore area is the ramp -up of capacities, which is 
currently running as planned at the sites in Cuxhaven (Germany), Aalborg (Denmark) and Le Havre 
(Franc e). 
 
The global service business remains an important pillar. In order to further expand the strong 
presence in the service of onshore turbines, the responsibilities for the new turbine and service 
business will be combined in future. This holistic approach has  also been successfully implemented 
in other business areas at Siemens Energy in recent years. A new organizational model will also 
reduce hierarchical levels and regulate responsibilities more clearly. These measures were also 
successfully implemented in the other Siemens Energy businesses in 2022.  
 
The organizational realignment will also result in job adjustments. On balance, however, the 
number of employees at Siemens Gamesa is expected to remain roughly constant over the next few 
years, as  areas such as offshore are growing. The aim is to absorb as much of the planned staff 
reduction in the affected areas as possible through internal job transfers. The exact impact of the 
job cuts , especially  on individual countries and locations , cannot yet be quantified. In the course of 
the change of CEO, Jochen  Eickholt and Vinod Philip will finalize the individual measures in the 
coming weeks and discuss and negotiate them with the respective employee representatives over 
the next few months.  
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 4 
 
With the generational change at the top of Siemens Gamesa, the intended  embedding  as a fourth 
division and the adoption of the multi -year restructuring plan, the integration is entering the next 
phase. As of June 1, important central functions of Siemens Gamesa, such as Human Resources, 
Legal, IT, Purchasing and Logistics, will be plac ed under uniform global management at Group level. 
At the beginning of the calendar year, the Accounting, Controlling and Tax departments, among 
others, were merged in an init ial integration phase. The aim is to become faster, more efficient and 
more transparent overall.  
 
 
 
 
Media contact for business press  
Tim Proll -Gerwe (Head of External Communications)  
Phone:  +49 (0)152 2283 5652  
E-mail: tim.proll -gerwe@siemens -energy.com    
 
Robin Zimmerman (Head of Communications)  
Phone:  +49 (0)172 567 6999  
E-mail:  r.zimmermann@siemens -energy.com  
 
 
Media contact for trade press  
Veronica Diaz Lopez  
Phone:  +34 616 348 735  
E-mail:  veronica.diaz -lopez@siemens -energy.com    
 
 
Media contact for Spanish press  
Santiago de Juan Martinez  
Phone : +34 610 141 397  
E-mail: santiago.dejuan@siemensgamesa.com   
 
 
 
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  4 of 4 
 
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is available at 
www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on X at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and servic es, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power and heat 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power pla nts operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers.  
Its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An 
estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens 
Energy employs around 9 9,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated  revenue of €31 billion in 
fiscal year 2023 . www.siemens -energy.com  
 
 