 
   
 
This edition of our Bylaws for the Supervisory Board,  
prepared for the convenience of English -speaking readers, is 
a translation of the German original. For purposes of interpre-
tation the German text shall be authoritative and final.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bylaws   
 
of the Supervisory Board  
of  
Siemens Energy AG  
 
in the version applicable as of  February  20, 202 5 
 

  
2 
 § 1  
General  
 
(1) The Supervisory Board shall consist of twenty members, namely of ten mem-
bers elected by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and ten members whose 
election is governed by the German Codetermination Act (Mitbest G). The Su-
pervisory Board shall regularly advise the Executive Board in running the 
Company and supervise its management activities.  This also comprises ad-
dressing corporate planning and strategy, including the innovation strategy.  
 
(2) The Supervisory Board shall conduct its activities in accordance with the legal 
provisions, the Articles of Association, and these Bylaws . It shall observe the 
recommendations and suggestions of the German Corporate Governance 
Code.  
 
(3) All members of the Supervisory Board shall act in the interests of the Com-
pany. They shall not be bound by orders and instructions and shall in their 
decisions neither pursue their own personal interests nor make personal use 
of business opportunities avai lable to the Company. In accordance with sec-
tion 111a para. 2 sentence 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Akt G), 
the Company has defined an internal procedure that applies to related -party 
transactions.  
 
(4) Every Supervisory Board member must disclose conflicts of interest to the 
Chair of the Supervisory Board immediately. The Chair of the Supervisory 
Board shall disclose his /her own conflicts of interest to the Presiding Com-
mittee. In the event of material conflicts of interests connected to his /her per-
sonal circumstances which are not merely of a temporary nature, the Super-
visory Board member concerned shall resign from the Supervisory Board. 
Supervisory Board members shall not be members of governing bodies  of, 
or exercise advisory functions at significant competitors of the Company and 
shall not hold a personal relationship with a significant competitor.  
 
(5) The Supervisory Board assesses at regular intervals how effectively the Su-
pervisory Board and its committees discharge their tasks.  
 
(6) The Supervisory Board shall take care to ensure that the members of the 
Executive Board and employees of the Company are subject to standards of 
conduct (Business Conduct Guidelines). The members of the Supervisory 
Board shall likewise comply with these guidel ines in their respective current 
form insofar as they are applicable to members of the Supervisory Board and 
compatible with their duties.  
 
(7) The Bylaws for the Supervisory Board must be published.  
  
3 
  
 
§ 2  
Composition of the Supervisory Board  
 
(1) The Supervisory Board shall be composed in a manner such that its members 
collectively possess the required knowledge, skills and professional experi-
ence necessary for the proper performance of their duties and, as a whole, 
are familiar with the sector in which the Company operat es. In accordance 
with statutory provisions and in due consideration of the recommendations of 
the German Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board shall spec-
ify concrete objectives for its composition and establish a compete ncy profile 
for the overall body. In so doing, it shall also pay attention to diversity and 
expertise in the sustainability issues of importance to the Company . 
 
(2) As a rule, only persons under the age of 75 on the date of election shall be 
nominated for election as a member of the Supervisory Board . 
 
(3) The recommendation for election by the Shareholders’ Meeting shall take into 
account the fact that membership of the Supervisory Board is usually limited 
to three full terms of office . 
 
(4) A Supervisory Board member whose professional activities have substantially 
changed since his/her election shall discuss a possible termination of his / her 
mandate with the Chair of the Supervisory Board.  
 
 
§ 3  
Secrecy  
 
(1) The members of the Supervisory Board shall maintain secrecy on confidential 
information, reports and consultations as well as secrets of the Company, 
namely trade and business secrets that came to their knowledge as a result 
of their work within the Supervisory Board. This o bligation shall continue to 
apply even after the individual concerned resigns.  
 
(2) If a member of the Supervisory Board intends to disclose to third parties in-
formation in respect of which it cannot be definitively ruled out that it may be 
confidential or relate to Company secrets, he or she shall inform the Chair of 
the Supervisory Boar d (or, if applicable, the Presiding Committee) in advance 
and afford him or her the opportunity to comment.  
 
(3) The Supervisory Board members shall ensure that any personnel employed 
by them for support observe the obligation of secrecy to the same extent.  
  
4 
  
 
§ 4  
Chair and Deputy Chair  
 
(1) The Supervisory Board shall appoint a Chair and a Deputy Chair from among 
its members in accordance with the provisions of the German Codetermina-
tion Act  (MitbestG) . It may elect a further Deputy Chair, to whose election 
section 27 of the German Codetermination Act (MitbestG) shall not apply.  
 
(2) If the position of the Chair, or of the Deputy Chair elected in accordance with 
the German Codetermination Act  (MitbestG) , becomes vacant before expiry 
of his /her term of office, the Supervisory Board shall elect a new Chair or 
Deputy Chair, as the case may be, for the remainder of the respective term 
of office without undue delay, however no later than during the next meeting 
of the Supervisory Board, and prior  to any other decision.  
 
(3) A Deputy Chair shall have the same rights as the Chair in all cases in which 
he/she stands in for the Chair while the latter is unable to perform his or her 
duties, however with the exception of the casting vote granted to the Chair 
pursuant to the German Codetermination Act  (MitbestG) , the Articles of As-
sociation, or these Bylaws.  
 
(4) In the event that both the Chair and the Deputy Chair are unable to perform 
their duties, these duties shall be taken over by the most senior member or, 
in the case of equal seniority, by the oldest member of the Supervisory Board 
who is not unable to atte nd. He /she shall, however, not be entitled to the cast-
ing vote granted to the Chair pursuant to the German Codetermination Act  
(MitbestG) , the Articles of Association, or these Bylaws.  
 
(5) The Chair of the Supervisory Board shall coordinate the work within the Su-
pervisory Board and represent the Supervisory Board’s interests externally. 
Declarations of intent by the Supervisory Board and its Committees shall be 
issued on behalf of the Superv isory Board by the Chair. The Chair shall be 
entitled to receive declarations on behalf of the Supervisory Board.  
 
(6) The Chair of the Supervisory Board shall be entitled to conduct discussions 
with investors on topics relevant to the Supervisory Board. He/she shall inform 
the Supervisory Board or its Committees of such discussions.  
  
  
5 
 § 5  
Meetings; Convening of Meetings; Resolutions  
 
(1) The meetings shall be convened by the Chair with a notice period of at least 
fourteen days, not counting the day on which the invitation is sent or the day 
on which the meeting is to be held. This notice period may be reduced in 
urgent cases. Meetings may be convened in writing, verbally, by phone, by 
fax, by e -mail, via electronic boardroom or using other commonly used means 
of communication. The individual con vening the meeting shall determine the 
format of the meeting. The Chair may cancel or reschedule a meeting that 
has been called at his /her due discretion.  
 
(2) The invitation shall set out the agenda of the meeting. Additions to the agenda 
shall be notified by the third day before the meeting, unless an urgent matter 
justifies later notification. Proposed resolutions relating to items on the 
agenda and the docume nts necessary to prepare for the meeting shall be 
distributed by the fifth day before the meeting, unless an urgent matter justi-
fies later notification.  
 
(3) The Chair shall conduct the meetings and determine the method and order in 
which the items on the agenda are attended to.  
 
(4) On the Chair’s instruction, meetings may in individual circumstances be held 
via a conference call and/or using electronic means of communication (in par-
ticular video conference). Supervisory Board members may be permitted to 
participate in meetings of the  Supervisory Board by phone and/or using elec-
tronic means of communication (in particular video conference).  
 
(5) The Supervisory Board is quorate if at least half of the members that the Su-
pervisory Board must comprise take part in the passing of resolutions. Absent 
Supervisory Board members who request a Supervisory Board member per-
sonally attending the meeting to s ubmit written votes (including by e -mail or 
fax), Supervisory Board members who cast their votes in accordance with  
§ 5 paragraph 8, and members who abstain from casting their votes during a 
resolution, shall be deemed to be in attendance within the meani ng of pre-
ceding Sentence.  
 
(6) The passing of a resolution on an agenda item that was not included in the 
invitation convening the meeting or notified in accordance with § 5 paragraph 
2 sentence 2 shall only be permitted if no member of the Supervisory Board 
objects to passing the resolution. In such cases, absent members shall be 
given the opportunity, within a reasonable period of time to be determined by 
the Chair of the Supervisory Boa rd, to oppose the resolution or to cast their 
vote subsequently in writing, verbally, by phone, fax,  or e-mail, or using other 
  
6 
 commonly used means of communication. The resolution shall only enter into 
force if none of the absent Supervisory Board members notify the Chair of the 
Supervisory Board of their opposition within said period of time. Members of 
the Supervisory Board atte nding by conference call or using electronic means 
of communication shall be deemed present.  
 
(7) If a motion relating to an item on the agenda is submitted or amended less 
than three days before the Supervisory Board meeting in such a way that a 
vote can be cast only with knowledge of the motion or amendment, absent 
members shall be given the opportun ity, within a reasonable period of time to 
be determined by the Chair of the Supervisory Board, to cast their vote sub-
sequently, in writing, verbally, by phone, fax, or e -mail, or using other com-
monly used means of communication. When determining the resul t of the vote 
on the resolution, the votes cast shall be included, if they have been received 
by the Chair of the Supervisory Board within the specified period of time. The 
passing of the resolution shall only be concluded when the votes have been 
received  or the specified period of time has expired without the votes having 
been received. Members of the Supervisory Board attending by conference 
call or using electronic means of communication shall be deemed present.  
 
(8) On the Chair’s instruction, Supervisory Board resolutions may in individual 
circumstances be passed outside meetings in writing, orally, by phone, fax, 
or e-mail, via electronic boardroom or using other commonly used means of 
communication, or by a combina tion of such forms of communication. The 
Chair shall arrange for such a resolution to be taken within a reasonable pe-
riod, stating the time and procedure and using one of the means of commu-
nication stipulated in sentence 1.  
 
(9) The resolutions shall be passed with simple majority of the votes cast, unless 
otherwise required by mandatory law. Abstentions shall not be counted as 
votes cast in this sense. If a vote in the Supervisory Board results in a tie, and 
if the repeated vote on the same matter again results in a tie, the Chair of the 
Supervisory Board is entitled to a casting vote. Section 108 para. 3 of the 
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) shall also apply to the casting vote.  
 
(10) Minutes shall be taken of the meetings and resolutions of the Supervisory 
Board (for the purpose of record -keeping only and not as a condition for entry 
into force) and shall be signed by the person presiding over the respective 
meeting and his /her selected minute -taker  or, if the resolutions were passed 
outside a meeting, by the Chair of the Supervisory Board. The minutes shall 
be made available to the Supervisory Board members.  
 
 
  
  
7 
 § 6  
Third -party attendance at meetings; involvement of third parties  
 
(1) The meetings of the Supervisory Board shall be attended by members of the 
Executive Board, unless the Chair of the Supervisory Board instructs other-
wise on an individual basis. The Supervisory Board shall meet regularly with-
out the Executive Board.  
 
(2) To perform its duties, the Supervisory Board may, at its discretion, involve 
auditors, legal, or other external or internal advisors. The Chair of the Super-
visory Board may permit these individuals or other experts and knowledge 
bearers to attend meetings of the Supervisory Board. Attendance  by third par-
ties required by law shall remain unaffected. The cost of involving the afore-
mentioned individuals shall be borne by the Company.  
 
 
§ 7  
General Rules for Committees  
 
(1) The Supervisory Board shall establish and appoint from among its number 
the following committees:  
 
a) a Presiding Committee,  
 
b) an Audit Committee,  
 
c) a Sustainability and  Finance Committee ,  
 
d) a Remuneration Committee ,  
 
e) a Committee for Digitalization and Artificial Intelligence, and  
 
f) a Nomination Committee . 
 
(2) Furthermore, immediately following the election of the Chair of the Supervi-
sory Board and the Deputy Chair in accordance with the provisions of the Co -
Determination Act, the Supervisory Board shall establish a committee for the 
performance of the task spec ified in section 31 para. 3 sentence 1 of the Ger-
man Codetermination Act  (MitbestG) . Such committee shall consist of the 
Chair of the Supervisory Board and the Deputy Chair elected in accordance 
with the German Codetermination Act  (MitbestG) , as well as on e additional 
member elected by the Supervisory Board members representing the share-
  
8 
 holders and one additional member elected by the Supervisory Board mem-
bers representing the employees, in each case by the majority of the votes 
cast.  
 
(3) The Supervisory Board may establish other committees and appoint mem-
bers to them from amongst its members. To the extent legally permissible, 
decision -making authorities of the Supervisory Board may be transferred to 
the Committees or to individual members of the Supervisory Board.  
 
(4) The term of office of the committee members shall correspond to their term 
of office as members of the Supervisory Board, unless a shorter period of 
office has been determined at the time of election by the Supervisory Board.  
 
(5) The Committee may elect a chair from amongst its members, unless the Su-
pervisory Board specifies a chair. A committee shall only be quorate if half of 
the committee’s members, but at least three members, take part in the pass-
ing of resolutions. Each committee’s chair shall provide the Supervisory Board 
with regular reports on the activities of the relevant committee. In order to 
ensure the exchange of expertise on overarching issues between the com-
mittees,  the chair of a committee may participate in the mee ting of another 
committee as guest, should the chair of the latter committee so require.  
 
(6) The members of the Executive Board shall attend the meetings of the com-
mittees, if requested by the chair of the committee or by a majority of the 
committee members.  
 
(7) To perform their respective duties, the committees of the Supervisory Board 
may exercise the special inspection and examination rights vested in the Su-
pervisory Board pursuant to section 111 para. 2 of the German Stock Corpo-
ration Act  (AktG) . 
 
(8) If the Chair of the Supervisory Board is a member of a committee, the Chair 
shall, in the event of a repeated tied vote, be entitled to a casting vote in 
mutatis mutandis application of §  5 paragraph 9 sentence 3. If the Chair of 
the Supervisory Board is not a member of a committee, the committee’s chair 
shall, in the event of a repeated tied vote, be entitled to a casting vote in 
mutatis mutandis application of §  5 paragraph 9 sentence 3. In other respects, 
the proceedings of the committees shall be subjec t to the provisions of §§ 5 
and 6 mutatis mutandis , unless the Supervisory Board determines otherwise 
for the committee.  
 
  
  
9 
 § 8  
Presiding Committee  
 
(1) The Presiding Committee shall consist of the Chair of the Supervisory Board, 
the Deputy Chair elected in accordance with § 4 paragraph 1 sentence 1, as 
well as one further Supervisory Board member representing the shareholders 
and one further Supervisory Board member representing the employees. The 
Presiding Committee shall be chaired by the Chair of the Supervisory Board.  
 
(2) The Presiding Committee shall coordinate the work within the Supervisory 
Board, prepare the meetings of the Supervisory Board and the self -assess-
ment of the effectiveness of the Supervisory Board and its committees in ful-
filling their respective tasks, and monitor the execution of the  resolutions 
taken by the Supervisory Board or its committees.  
 
(3) The Presiding Committee shall deliberate and pass resolutions on corporate 
governance issues, including the Bylaws for the Supervisory Board and the 
Bylaws for the Executive Board, and issue recommendations where a resolu-
tion by the Supervisory Board is required. It shall be responsibl e for preparing 
the resolution on the Declaration of Conformity and on approval of the Corpo-
rate Governance Report and the Report of the Supervisory Board to the An-
nual Shareholders’ Meeting.  
 
(4) The Presiding Committee shall propose to the Supervisory Board the names 
of individuals to serve on the Supervisory Board committees and to serve as 
Chair of the Supervisory Board or chairs of the committees.  
 
(5) The Presiding Committee shall on behalf of the Supervisory Board pass res-
olutions on  
 
a) the conclusion of transactions between the Company or an affiliated 
company on the one hand and a member of the Executive Board or 
individuals, enterprises, and associations closely related to a member 
of the Executive Board on the other, to the extent tha t they require the 
Supervisory Board’s approval in accordance with section 112 of the 
German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) or otherwise;  
 
b) the approval of secondary activities of a member of the Executive 
Board that require approval, in particular the acceptance of Supervi-
sory Board mandates outside the Company. The full Supervisory 
Board shall remain responsible for resolutions on any adjustment to 
such Executive Board member’s compensation to take account of re-
muneration for such second ary activities.  
 
  
10 
 c) the granting of loans to persons listed in sections 89, 115 of the Ger-
man Stock Corporation Act  (AktG) ; no loans shall be granted to mem-
bers of the Executive Board and members of the Supervisory Board;  
 
d) the approval of contracts with members of the Supervisory Board in 
accordance with section 114 of the German Stock Corporation Act  
(AktG) ; 
 
e) legal representation of the Company in legal proceedings in which the 
Company is represented by the Executive Board together with the Su-
pervisory Board, or by the Supervisory Board alone, in particular in the 
event of an action for annulment or rescission ( section 246 para. 2 
sentence 2, section 249 para. 1 sentence 1 of the German Stock Cor-
poration Act  (AktG) ); 
 
f) the approval of transactions and measures for which approval is re-
quired under § 5 paragraph 2, subparagraph 2 and § 10 paragraph 3 
of the Bylaws for the Executive Board;  
 
g) other measures assigned to it as stipulated by resolution of the Super-
visory Board.  
 
(6) The Presiding Committee shall deliberate regularly on the long -term succes-
sion planning for the Executive Board. It shall make suggestions to the Su-
pervisory Board for the appointment and dismissal of members of the Execu-
tive Board as well as the extension  of their mandates. When reviewing sug-
gestions for the appointment of members of the Executive Board, the  
Presiding Committee shall take into account the statutory provisions and the 
requirements profile defined by the Supervisory Board, as well as the di versity 
concept, including the target for the nomination of women  to the Executive 
Board. The Presiding Committee shall take into consideration that members 
of the Executive Board should not be appointed for an initial term of more than 
three years.  
 
(7) Within the framework of the remuneration system and the remuneration of 
individual members of the Executive Board resolved by the full Supervisory 
Board, the Presiding Committee shall be responsible for concluding, amend-
ing, extending and terminating contr acts of employment with members of the 
Executive Board.  
 
(8) The Presiding Committee shall suggest to the Supervisory Board proposals 
for allocating business responsibilities within the Executive Board in cases 
where these issues are not regulated by law.  
 
  
11 
  
§ 9  
Audit Committee  
 
(1) The Audit Committee shall consist of three Supervisory Board members rep-
resenting the shareholders and three Supervisory Board members represent-
ing the employees. At least one member of the Audit Committee must have 
expertise in the area of accounting and at least one further member must have 
expertise in the area of auditing. The Chair of the Audit Committee should 
have the appropriate expertise in at least one of these two areas.  
 
(2) The Audit Committee shall have the following duties:  
 
a) Monitoring of the annual audit, in particular of the selection, independ-
ence and qualification of the auditor; evaluation of the quality of the 
audit as well as the services of the auditor, including the additional ser-
vices rendered by them; for this purpose, it shall observe the legal pro-
visions, in particular the requirements under EU Regulation No. 
537/2014 on a nnual audits.  
 
b) Recommendation for the suggestion of the Supervisory Board to the 
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on the election of the auditor and the 
Group auditor as well as the auditor for the condensed financial state-
ments and the interim management report for the Group (half -year fi-
nancial report for the Group), to the extent they are audited or reviewed 
by the auditor;  
 
c) Issuing the audit engagement to the auditors, determining areas of em-
phasis for the audit, agreeing on the circumstances to be disclosed or 
reported to the Audit Committee, and stipulating the fee with the audi-
tors; 
 
d) Addressing the review of the accounting and monitoring the accounting 
process, the effectiveness of the internal control system  and the risk 
management system  including the coverage of sustainability -related 
objectives, the effectiveness of the internal audit system, and the inter-
nal procedure for related -party transactions ; 
 
e) Preparation of the Supervisory Board’s audit of the annual and consol-
idated financial statements, the management report of Siemens En-
ergy AG and the Siemens Energy Group and of the Executive Board’s 
proposal for the appropriation of profits;   
 
  
12 
 f) Discussion of the half -year financial reports and quarterly statements 
with the Executive Board before publication thereof;  
 
g) Monitoring compliance with legal requirements, official regulations, 
and Company -internal guidelines (Compliance);  
 
(h) Dealing with the non -financial declaration or the separate non -financial 
report and, if applicable, commissioning an external audit under sec-
tion 111 para. 2 sentence 4 of the German Stock Corporation Act  
(AktG) . The Sustainability and Finance Committee may be involved in 
the preliminary audit of statements relating to sustainability within the 
framework of the audit of the non -financial declaration or the separate 
non-financial report.  
 
 
§ 10  
Sustainability and  Finance Committee  
 
(1) The Sustainability and Finance Committee shall consist of the Chair of the 
Supervisory Board and  two Supervisory Board members representing the 
shareholders and three Supervisory Board members representing the em-
ployees.  
 
(2) The Sustainability and Finance Committee shall perform the tasks assigned 
to it by resolution of the Supervisory Board. In particular, it shall address sus-
tainability issues (Environmental, Social, Governance – ESG), without preju-
dice to the competence of other committees. Another of its responsibilities 
shall be to prepare negotiations and resolutions of the Supervisory Board on 
the financial situation and resources of the Company, including the annual 
budget, as well as investments in tangible assets and financial measures. 
Furthermore, the Sustainability and  Finance Committee shall, on behalf of the 
Supervisory Board, resolve on transactions and measures requiring the Su-
pervisory Board’s approval in accordance with §  7 paragraph 1 lit. a) to e) of 
the Executive Board’s Bylaws, unless such transactions or measures concern 
an amount equal to or exceeding €600 million. The Sustainability and Finance 
Committee shall also regularly address the Company’s naming, branding  and 
design concept.  
  
  
13 
  
§ 11 
Remuneration Committee  
 
(1) The Remuneration Committee shall consist of the Chair of the Supervisory 
Board and two Supervisory Board members representing the shareholders 
and three  Supervisory Board members representing the employees  
 
(2) The Remuneration Committee shall prepare resolutions of the full Supervi-
sory Board on the remuneration system for the Executive Board, including the 
implementation of this system in the Executive Board contracts, and its regu-
lar review . The Remuneration Committee shall also prepare resolutions of the 
full Supervisory Board on the remuneration for the Supervisory Board  mem-
bers and the annual Remuneration Report, including the engagement of the 
independent auditor.  
 
(3) Furthermore, the Remuneration Committee shall prepare resolutions of the 
full Supervisory Board on the determination of the targets for variable remu-
neration and the determination of whether these targets have been achieved, 
and on the determination and review of the appropriateness of the total remu-
neration of the individual members of the Executive Board.  
 
(4) In order to ensure coordination on issues relating to sustainability, the Remu-
neration Committee can involve the Chair of the Audit Committee or the Chair 
of the Sustainability and Finance Committee, as appropriate.   
 
 
§ 12 
Committee for Digitalization and Artificial Intelligence  
 
(1) The Committee for Digitalization and Artificial Intelligence shall consist of 
three Supervisory Board members representing the shareholders and three 
Supervisory Board members representing the employees.  
 
(2) The Committee shall advise and oversee the Executive Board in defining and 
implementing the Company’s digital and artificial intelligence (AI) strategy. In 
this context, it shall also concern itself with analyzing fundamental trends and 
developments in the  area of digitalization and AI and assessing their rele-
vance for the Company. It shall advise and oversee the Executive Board in 
identifying and implementing requirements in the area of AI with the goal of 
safeguarding the Company’s competitiveness.  
 
 
 
  
14 
 (3) The Committee shall regularly discuss the measures taken by the Company 
to protect and defend against cyber risks (cybersecurity). In addition, it shall 
advise and oversee the Executive Board in respect of the Company’s 
measures and projects in the area of  digitalization and AI if these are of  
strategic significance to the Company’s development.  
 
This is the case particularly if   
 
a) the projects or measures result in material changes to an existing  
business model or in new business models that are or could be of sub-
stantial significance to the Company;  
 
b) questions arise in connection with the use of technologies that have or 
could have material impacts on the current business.  This also covers 
the significance of different data protection laws and AI regulations in 
various regions of the world;  
 
c) there are or could be material impacts on employees and the organi-
zation;  
 
d) new developments in information and communication technologies re-
quire strategic action in respect of the IT infrastructures or regulations . 
 
 
§ 13  
Nomination Committee  
 
(1) The Nomination Committee shall consist of the Chair of the Supervisory 
Board, the further Deputy Chair elected in accordance with § 4 paragraph 1 
sentence 2, and two, or, in the event that no further Deputy Chair has been 
elected in accordance with §  4 paragraph 1 sentence 2, three further mem-
bers to be elected by the Supervisory Board’s shareholder representatives 
from among their members. The Committee shall be chaired by the Chair of 
the Supervisory Board.  
 
(2) The Nomination Committee shall, taking into account the defined targets for 
its appointment suggestions to the Annual General Meeting as stipulated in 
§ 2, suggest to the Supervisory Board suitable candidates for the election of 
Supervisory Board members representing the shareholders by the Annual 
General Meeting.  
 
  
15 
  
 
§ 14  
Lead Independent  Director  
 
(1) In the event that the Chair of the Supervisory Board is considered non  
independent according to the guidelines of important proxy advisors , the Super-
visory Board may appoint a member of the Supervisory Board as “Lead  
Independent Director” , who is independent in accordance with the recommen-
dations of the German Corporate Governance Code and meets the criteria of 
independence of the major proxy advisors.  
 
(2) The Lead Independent  Director  
 
a) shall usually be a member of the Presiding Committee, be Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and be a member of the Nomination  
Committee of the Company's Supervisory Board;  
 
b) shall usually be Deputy Chair of the Supervisory Board;  
 
c) is authorized to convene meetings of the Company's Supervisory Board 
and to add items on the agenda of the meetings;  
 
d) is entitled to attend meetings of the Company's Supervisory Board com-
mittees as a guest;  
 
e) may discuss topics related to the Supervisory Board with shareholders 
and other stakeholders and receive their proposals and suggestions re-
garding the work of the Supervisory Board;  
 
f) may chair the Shareholders’ Meeting if the Chair of the Supervisory 
Board is prevented from doing so.  
 
 