163
Additional Information
3.4  Corporate Governance pursuant  
to Sections 289f and 315d of the  
German Commercial Code
The Executive Board and Supervisory Board report on the 
corporate governance of the Company in this statement in 
accordance with Sections 289 f and 315 d German 
Commercial Code and Principle 22 of the German Corpo-
rate Governance Code (Code) 1. The Compensation Report 
can be found in chapter  1.10 Compensation Report of 
the Combined Management Report. More information on 
corporate governance is available online at  www.
siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/investor-  
relations/corporate-governance.html.
Declaration of conformity with the 
German Corporate Governance Code
The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of 
Siemens Energy AG approved the following Declaration of 
Conformity pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock 
Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) as of November 2020:
“Declaration by the Executive Board and the Supervi-
sory Board of Siemens Energy AG  with the German 
Corporate Governance Code pursuant to Section 161 of 
the German Stock Corporation Act
Siemens Energy AG shares have been listed on the stock 
exchange since September 25, 2020. As of this date, 
Siemens Energy AG ceased to be a part of the Siemens 
Group managed by Siemens Aktiengesellschaft and 
became a legally independent, publicly traded stock corpo-
ration to which the recommendations of the Government 
Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in 
the version dated December 16, 2019 (“Code”), published 
by the Federal Ministry of Justice and Consumer Protection 
in the official section of the Federal Gazette (Bundes-
anzeiger) apply.
The Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG currently 
comprises ten shareholder representatives. The Supervi-
sory Board of Siemens Energy AG in the composition 
required by the German Codetermination Act will only be 
constituted once the sanctioning procedure, which was 
initiated directly on September 25, 2020, is complete; the 
first meeting of the co-determined Supervisory Board is 
scheduled for early December 2020.At the first meeting of the current Supervisory Board on 
September 29, 2020, in particular the bylaws of the Execu-
tive Board and of the Supervisory Board were adopted, and 
the Presiding Committee, Audit Committee, and Nomi-
nating Committee were formed. At the second meeting of 
the Supervisory Board on November 9, 2020, the resolu-
tions to the independence of the shareholders representa-
tives, the Declaration of Conformity, the objectives 
(including the competence profile and the diversity 
concept) for the Supervisory Board and the diversity 
concept for the Executive Board were adopted.
Siemens Energy AG thus complies with all recommenda-
tions of the Code and will continue to comply with them in 
the future, with the following exceptions.
• According to recommendation B.3, the initial appoint-
ment of members of the Executive Board shall be for a 
maximum of three years. Even before Siemens Energy AG 
was listed on the stock exchange, Dr.-Ing. Christian Bruch 
was appointed to the Executive Board and Chairman of 
the Executive Board for five years. His individual qualifi-
cations and experience, particularly those acquired in 
long-term management positions, were taken into 
account in the decision for the longer appointment 
period. In making this appointment, it was particularly 
important to maintain continuity in the management of 
the Company. According to the bylaws of the Supervisory 
Board adopted on September 29, 2020, the initial 
appointment of members of the Executive Board will in 
future be for a maximum of three years.
• According to recommendation B.2, the Supervisory 
Board together with the Executive Board should ensure 
long-term succession planning. The Presiding Committee 
of the Supervisory Board will deal with the long-term 
succession planning for the Executive Board after the 
constitution of the co-determined Supervisory Board in 
December, when the employee representatives can be 
involved in the planning. Similarly, the resolution on the 
compensation system with the specifications provided 
for in rec- ommendation G.1 will be adopted at the 
constituent meeting of the co-determined Supervisory 
Board. The current employment contracts for the 
members of the Executive Board comply with the recom-
mendations of the Code.
1 The Corporate Governance statement is an unaudited integral part of the Combined Management Report.
164
Additional Information
• According to Recommendation D.13, the Supervisory 
Board shall assess, at regular intervals, how effective the 
Supervisory Board as a whole and its committees fulfil 
their tasks. The Supervisory Board shall report in the 
Corporate Governance Statement if (and how) the 
self-assessment was conducted. An efficiency review can 
only be sensibly carried out once the co-determined 
Supervisory Board has been constituted and started its 
work. The efficiency review is planned for the current 
fiscal year.
• Recommendation C.4 states that a Supervisory Board 
member who is not a member of any management board 
of a listed company shall not accept more than five Su- 
pervisory Board mandates at non-group listed compa-
nies or comparable functions, with an appointment as 
Chair of the Supervisory Board being counted twice. 
According to recommendation C.5, members of the 
management board of a listed company shall not have, 
in aggregate, more than two Supervisory Board mandates 
in non-group listed companies or comparable functions, 
and shall not accept the Chairmanship of a Supervisory 
Board in a non-group listed company.   
 
Instead of the recommended maximum number of 
mandates for the Executive Board and the Supervisory 
Board members as fixed upper limits, cases are to be 
judged on an individual basis as to whether the number 
of relevant mandates, as defined in the Code, is appro-
priate. This assessment is to consider the expected 
personal workload caused by the accepted mandates, 
which can differ depending on the specific mandates.
• According to recommendations C.10 Sentence 1 or D.4 
Sentence 1, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, and the Chairman of 
the committee that addresses Management Board remu-
neration are to be independent from the Company and 
the Executive Board.   
 
Prior to the Spin-Off becoming effective, numerous 
significant business relationships existed between 
Siemens Energy AG and its subsidiaries on the one hand, 
and the companies of the Siemens Group on the other 
hand due to their joint group affiliation. From the Compa-
ny’s point of view, it is advantageous to make still use of 
the com- prehensive knowledge and expertise of Joe 
Kaeser and Professor Dr. Ralf P. Thomas as members of 
the Managing Board of Siemens AG in their prominent 
position as Chairman of the Supervisory Board or 
Chairman of the Presiding Committee dealing with the 
compensation of the Executive Board and Chairman of 
the Audit Committee of Siemens Energy AG, respectively.Munich, Germany, November 2020
Siemens Energy AG
The Executive Board The Supervisory Board”
The latest Declaration of Conformity is available on the 
Siemens Energy AG website at   
 www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/  
investor-relations/corporate-governance.html#German  
CorporateGovernanceCode. 
Corporate constitution  
(Unternehmensverfassung)
The term “Siemens Energy Group” refers to Siemens Energy AG 
and its Group companies. Siemens Energy AG is a stock corpo-
ration (Aktiengesellschaft) under the German Stock Corpora-
tion Act, registered in Munich, Germany. It has three governing 
bodies: the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board, and the 
general Shareholders’ Meeting. Their duties and powers are 
derived primarily from the Stock Corporation Act and the arti-
cles of association of Siemens Energy AG, as well as from the 
bylaws. 
Composition and operation of the  
Executive Board
The Executive Board of Siemens Energy AG is composed of 
four members. The members of the Executive Board and 
their memberships to be disclosed in accordance with 
Section 285 No. 10 German Commercial Code can be found 
on page 172. 
As the top management body, the Executive Board is bound 
to serving the interests of the Company and achieving 
sustainable growth in company value. The members of the 
Executive Board are jointly responsible for the entire 
management of the Company and decide on the Basic 
issues of business policy and corporate strategy as well as 
on the Company’s annual and multi-year plans.
The Executive Board prepares the Company’s quarterly 
statements and half-year financial report, the financial 
statements and Consolidated Financial Statements, and 
the Combined Management Report of Siemens Energy AG 
and the Group. In addition, the Executive Board ensures 
165
Additional Information
that the Company adheres to statutory requirements, offi-
cial regulations and internal Company policies and works to 
achieve compliance with these provisions and policies 
within the Group. The Executive Board has established a 
comprehensive compliance management system. Protec-
tion is offered to employees and third parties who provide 
information on unlawful behavior within the Company. 
Details on the compliance management system are avail-
able on the Company’s website at:  
 www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/  
about/compliance.html.
The Supervisory Board has issued Bylaws for the Executive 
Board that contain the assignment of different portfolios 
and the rules for cooperation both within the Executive 
Board and between the Executive Board and the Supervi-
sory Board. In accordance with these Bylaws, the Executive 
Board is divided into the portfolio of the President and CEO 
and a variety of Executive Board portfolios. The Supervisory 
Board has issued a business allocation plan which defines 
the Executive Board members who are responsible for the 
individual Executive Board portfolios. As the member with 
responsibility for the Human Resources portfolio, the Labor 
Director (Arbeitsdirektor) is appointed in accordance with 
the requirements of Section 33 of the German Codetermi-
nation Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz). As a rule, first-time 
appointments to the Executive Board should not exceed 
three years. Members of the Executive Board shall, as a 
rule, not be over 63 years of age. Executive Board commit-
tees have not been set up.
As a rule, a portfolio assigned to an individual member is 
that member’s own responsibility. Activities and transac-
tions in a particular Executive Board portfolio that are 
considered to be extraordinarily important for the Company 
or associated with an extraordinary economic risk require 
the prior consent of the full Executive Board.
The same applies to activities and transactions for which 
the President or another member of the Executive Board 
demands a prior decision by the Executive Board. The Pres-
ident is responsible for the coordination of all Executive 
Board portfolios. Further details are available in the Bylaws 
for the Executive Board at:   
 www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/
investor-relations/corporate-governance.html#Articles  
ofAssociationBylaws
The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board cooperate 
closely for the benefit of the Company. The Executive Board 
informs the Supervisory Board regularly, comprehensively, 
and without delay on all issues of importance to the entire 
Company with regard to strategy, planning, business  development, financial position and results of operations, 
compliance, and entrepreneurial risks. At regular intervals, 
the Executive Board also discusses the status of strategy 
implementation with the Supervisory Board.
The members of the Executive Board are subject to a 
comprehensive prohibition on competitive activity for the 
period of their employment at Siemens Energy AG. They 
are bound to serving the interest of the Company. When 
making their decisions, they may not be guided by personal 
interests nor may they exploit for their own advantage 
business opportunities offered to the Company. Executive 
Board members may conduct additional activities of mate-
rial nature outside the company – in particular, supervisory 
board positions outside the Siemens Energy Group – only 
with the approval of the Presiding Committee of the Super -
visory Board. The Supervisory Board is responsible for deci-
sions regarding any adjustments to Executive Board 
compensation that are necessary in order to take account 
of possible compensation for secondary activities. Every 
Executive Board member is under an obligation to disclose 
conflicts of interest without delay to the Chair of the Super -
visory Board and to the President of the Executive Board, 
and to inform the other members of the Executive Board 
thereof.
Information on the areas of responsibility and the curricula 
vitae of the members of the Executive Board are available 
on the Company’s website at:  www.siemens-energy.  
com/global/en/company/about/executive-board.html.  
Information on the compensation paid to the members of 
the Executive Board is provided in chapter  1.10 Compen-
sation Report.
Composition and operation of the  
Supervisory Board
Until the Spin-Off of Siemens Energy AG on September 
25, 2020, the Siemens Energy AG Supervisory Board 
consisted of three members from the then sole share-
holder Siemens Aktiengesellschaft. At the present time, 
the Supervisory Board consists of ten shareholder repre-
sentatives who were elected with effect from the Spin-Off 
from Siemens Aktiengesellschaft. Effective as of the 
Spin-Off, Siemens Energy AG became the parent company 
of the legally and financially independent Siemens Energy 
Group. The Supervisory Board must therefore comprise an 
equal number of shareholder and employee representa-
tives in accordance with the German Codetermination Act.  
The Executive Board announced the initiation on September 
25, 2020, of the status proceedings concerning the compo-
sition of the Supervisory Board. Once the status proceed-
166
Additional Information
ings are complete and the employee representatives have 
been legally appointed, the Supervisory Board will comprise 
an equal number of ten shareholder representatives and 
ten employee representatives in accordance with the 
German Codetermination Act. The members of the Super -
visory Board representing shareholders will be elected by 
simple majority by the general Shareholders’ Meeting – for 
the first time by the ordinary general Shareholders’ Meeting 
on February 10, 2021. Elections to the Supervisory Board 
are conducted, as a rule, on an individual basis. The Super -
visory Board’s employee representatives are elected in 
accordance with the provisions of the German Codetermi-
nation Act. The members of the Supervisory Board and 
their memberships to be disclosed in accordance with 
Section 285 No. 10 German Commercial Code can be found 
on page 172.
The Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Executive 
Board in its management of the Company’s business. At 
regular intervals, the Supervisory Board discusses business 
development, planning, strategy, and strategy implemen-
tation. It reviews the financial statements and Consolidated 
Financial Statements, the Combined Management Report 
of Siemens Energy AG and the Group, and proposal for the 
appropriation of Net income. It approves the financial 
statements of Siemens Energy AG as well as the Consoli-
dated Financial Statements, based on the results of the 
preliminary review conducted by the Audit Committee and 
taking into account the reports of the independent audi-
tors. The Supervisory Board decides on the Executive 
Board’s proposal for the appropriation of Net income and 
the Report of the Supervisory Board to the general Share-
holders’ Meeting. In addition, the Supervisory Board and 
the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board monitor the 
Company’s adherence to statutory provisions, official regu-
lations and internal Company policies (compliance). The 
Supervisory Board also appoints the members of the Exec-
utive Board and determines each member’s portfolios. The 
Supervisory Board approves – on the basis of a proposal by 
the Presiding Committee – the compensation system for 
Executive Board members and defines their concrete 
compensation in accordance with this system. It sets the 
individual targets for the variable compensation and the 
total compensation of each individual Executive Board 
member, reviews the appropriateness of total compensa-
tion, and regularly reviews the Executive Board compensa-
tion system. Important Executive Board decisions – such as 
those regarding major acquisitions, divestments, fixed asset 
investments, or financial measures – require Supervisory 
Board approval unless the bylaws for the Supervisory Board 
specify that such authority be delegated to the Innovation 
and Finance Committee of the Supervisory Board.The Supervisory Board and its committees will conduct 
regular reviews – either internally or with the involvement 
of external consultants – in order to determine how effec-
tively they perform their duties. The first efficiency review 
is planned for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2021, 
due to the fact that the Supervisory Board was newly estab-
lished as of the end of the fiscal year. 
Separate preparatory meetings of the shareholder representa-
tives and of the employee representatives should be held 
regularly in order to prepare the Supervisory Board meetings. 
The Supervisory Board also meets regularly without the Exec-
utive Board in attendance. Every Supervisory Board member is 
under an obligation to disclose conflicts of interest to the 
Supervisory Board. Information regarding any conflicts of 
interest that have arisen and their handling is provided in the 
Report of the Supervisory Board. Special informational 
(onboarding) events are held in order to familiarize new 
Supervisory Board members with the Company’s business 
model and the structures of the Siemens Energy Group.
Details regarding the work of the Supervisory Board are 
provided in the chapter  3.3 Report of the Supervisory 
Board. The curricula vitae of the members of the Supervi-
sory Board are published on the Company’s website at 
 www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/  
about/supervisory-board.html and are updated annually. 
Information on the compensation paid to the members of 
the Super  visory Board is provided in chapter  1.10 
Compensation Report.
Supervisory Board committees
The Supervisory Board currently has three committees: the 
Presiding Committee, the Audit Committee, and the Nomi-
nating Committee. Their duties, responsibilities, and proce-
dures fulfill the requirements of the German Stock Corpora-
tion Act and the Code. The chairs of these commit-tees 
provide the Supervisory Board with regular reports on their 
committees’ activities. After completing the status proceed-
ings, the Supervisory Board intends to form three further 
committees – an Innovation and Finance Committee, a 
Committee for Related-Party Transactions, and a Mediation 
Committee in accordance with Section 27 para. 3 of the 
German Codetermination Act.
The Presiding Committee coordinates the work of the 
Supervisory Board; it also prepares the Supervisory Board 
meetings and the review of its effectiveness. It discusses 
the long-term succession planning for the Executive Board, 
makes proposals regarding the appointment and dismissal 
of Executive Board members, and is responsible for 
167
Additional Information
concluding, amending, extending, and terminating 
employment contracts with members of the Executive 
Board. When making recommendations for first-time 
appointments, the Presiding Committee takes into account 
that these appointments should not exceed an initial term 
of three years. In preparing recommendations regarding 
the appointment of Executive Board members, the 
Presiding Committee takes into account the profile of 
requirements defined by the Supervisory Board, along with 
the diversity concept, and considers the age limit for Exec-
utive Board members defined by the Supervisory Board as 
well as the stipulated targets for the percentage of women. 
The Presiding Committee prepares the proposals for deci-
sions at the Supervisory Board’s plenary meetings regarding 
the system of Executive Board’s and the Supervisory Board’s 
compensation, including the implementation of this 
system in Executive Board contracts, the definition of the 
targets for variable Executive Board compensation and the 
determination of whether these targets have been 
achieved, the determination and review of the appropriate-
ness of the total compensation of individual Executive 
Board members, and the approval of the annual Compen-
sation Report. It concerns itself with questions regarding 
the Company’s corporate governance and prepares the 
resolutions to be approved by the Supervisory Board 
regarding the Declaration of Conformity with the Code ‒ 
including the explanation of deviations from the Code ‒ 
and the Report of the Supervisory Board to the general 
Shareholders’ Meeting. Furthermore, the Presiding 
Committee submits recommendations to the Supervisory 
Board regarding the composition of the Supervisory Board 
committees and decides whether to approve contracts and 
business transactions with Executive Board members and 
parties related to them. Ultimately, the Presiding Committee 
is responsible for the decision if the Executive Board 
requires the approval of the Presiding Committee for the 
appointment or dismissal of management positions deter -
mined under its bylaws.
As of September 30, 2020, the Presiding Committee had 
the following members: Joe Kaeser (Chairman) and Dr.-Ing. 
Hubert Lienhard.
The Audit Committee oversees, in particular, the 
accounting and the accounting process and is responsible 
for preparing for the Supervisory Board’s audit of the finan-
cial statements, Consolidated Financial Statements, and 
Combined Management Report of Siemens Energy AG and 
the Siemens Energy Group and for the audit of the Execu-
tive Board’s proposal for the appropriation of Net income by 
the Supervisory Board. On the basis of the independent 
auditors’ report on their audit of the financial statements, 
the Audit Committee makes, after its preliminary review, recommendations regarding Supervisory Board approval of 
the financial statements of Siemens Energy AG and the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. The Audit Committee 
discusses the quarterly statements and half-year financial 
report with the Executive Board and the independent audi-
tors and deals with the auditors’ reports on the review of 
the half-year Consolidated Financial Statements and 
interim group management report. It monitors the effec-
tiveness of the internal control system, the risk manage-
ment system, and the internal auditing system. The Audit 
Committee concerns itself with monitoring the Company’s 
adherence to statutory provisions, official regulations, and 
internal Company policies (compliance), as well as with the 
Groups separate non-financial report. The Audit Committee 
receives regular reports from the Internal Audit Depart-
ment. It prepares the Supervisory Board’s recommendation 
to the general Shareholders’ Meeting concerning the elec-
tion of the independent auditors and submits the corre-
sponding proposal to the Supervisory Board. It awards the 
audit contract to the independent auditors elected by the 
general Shareholders’ Meeting and monitors the indepen-
dent audit of the financial statements, particularly the 
selection, independence, rotation and qualification of the 
auditor, as well as the auditor’s performance and the addi-
tional services rendered. In doing so, it observes the appli-
cable statutory provisions, particularly the requirements 
under Regulation (EU) 537/2014 regarding statutory audit. 
Outside its meetings, the Supervisory Board is also in 
regular communication with the independent auditors via 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee.  
As of September 30, 2020, the Audit Committee had the 
following members: Prof. Dr. Ralf Thomas (Chairman), Dr. 
Christine Bortenlänger, Joe Kaeser, and Laurence Mulliez. 
Prof. Dr. Thomas was elected Chairman at the Audit 
Committee meeting on November 9, 2020. The members 
of the Audit Committee are, as a group, familiar with the 
sector in which the Company operates. Pursuant to the 
German Stock Corporation Act, the Audit Committee must 
include at least one Supervisory Board member with knowl-
edge and experience in the areas of accounting or the 
auditing of financial statements. Pursuant to the Code, the 
chair of the Audit Committee shall have specific knowledge 
and experience in applying accounting principles and 
internal control procedures, shall be familiar with audits, 
and shall be independent. The Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, Prof. Dr. Ralf Thomas, meets these require-
ments with the exception of the independence require-
ment, as the Code does not consider Supervisory Board 
members with professional responsibilities at a non-Group 
company that has a material business relationship with the 
Company to be independent.
168
Additional Information
The Nominating Committee is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Supervisory Board on suitable 
candidates for election by the general Shareholders’ 
Meeting as shareholder representatives on the Supervisory 
Board. It is to be ensured that, besides possessing the 
necessary knowledge, skills, and expertise, the proposed 
candidates are familiar with the sector in which the 
Company operates. The objectives defined by the Supervi-
sory Board for its composition should be taken into consid-
eration, as should diversity and the fulfillment of the profile 
of required skills and expertise developed by the Supervi-
sory Board. The target set by the Supervisory Board with 
respect to an appropriate participation of women and men 
is consistent with the legal requirements relating to the 
gender quota.
As of September 30, 2020, the Nominating Committee had 
the following members: Joe Kaeser (Chairman), Dr.-Ing. 
Hubert Lienhard, Prof. Dr. Ralf Thomas, and Geisha Williams.
More details are available in the bylaws for the Supervisory 
Board at:  www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/
company/investor-relations/corporate-governance.
html#ArticlesofAssociationBylaws.
Share transactions by members of the 
Executive and Supervisory Boards
Pursuant to Article 19 of EU Regulation No. 596/2014 of 
the European Parliament and Council of April 16, 2014, on 
market abuse (Market Abuse Regulation), members of the 
Executive Board and the Supervisory Board are legally 
required to disclose all transactions conducted on their 
own account relating to the shares or debt instruments of 
Siemens Energy AG or to the derivatives or financial instru-
ments linked thereto if the total value of such transactions 
entered into by a board member or any closely associated 
person reaches or exceeds €20,000 in any calendar year. 
All transactions reported to Siemens Energy AG in accor -
dance with this requirement are duly published and are 
available on the Company website at:  www.  
siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/investor-  
relations/corporate-governance.html#Managers  
Transactions.
Details regarding transactions with members of the Execu-
tive and Supervi-sory Boards as related individuals are avail-
able in  2.6 Notes to Consolidated Financial State-
ments in Note 27 Related party transactions.General Shareholders’ Meeting and 
investor relations
Shareholders exercise their rights at the general Share-
holders’ Meeting. An annual general Shareholders’ Meeting 
normally takes place within the first four months of each 
fiscal year. The general Shareholders’ Meeting decides, 
among other things, on the appropriation of Net income, 
the ratification of the acts of the Executive and Supervisory 
Boards, and the appointment of the independent auditors. 
Amendments to the articles of association and measures 
that change the Company’s capital stock are approved at 
the general Shareholders’ Meeting and implemented by 
the Executive Board. The Executive Board facilitates share-
holder participation in this meeting through electronic 
communications – in particular, via the internet – and 
enables shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting 
to vote by proxy. Proxies can also be reached during the 
general Shareholders’ Meeting. Furthermore, shareholders 
may exercise their right to vote in writing or by means of 
electronic communications (absentee voting). The Execu-
tive Board may enable shareholders to participate in the 
general Shareholders’ Meeting without the need to be 
present at the venue and without a proxy and to exercise 
some or all of their rights fully or partially by means of elec-
tronic communications. The Company enables share-
holders to follow the entire general Shareholders’ Meeting 
via the internet. Shareholders may submit proposals 
regarding the proposals of the Executive and Supervisory 
Boards and may contest decisions of the general Share-
holders’ Meeting. Shareholders owning stock with an 
aggregate notional value of €100,000 or more may also 
demand the judicial appointment of special auditors to 
examine specific issues. The reports, documents, and infor -
mation required by law for the general Shareholders’ 
Meeting, including the annual report, can be downloaded 
from the Company website. The same applies to the agenda 
for the general Shareholders’ Meeting and to any counter -
proposals or shareholders’ nominations that may require 
disclosure. For the election of shareholder representatives 
on the Supervisory Board, a detailed curriculum vitae of 
every candidate is published.
Due to the COVID-19 emergency legislation (“Gesellschafts-
rechtliche COVID-19-Verordnung” of October 19, 2020), 
virtual general Shareholders’ Meetings that make it possible 
to conduct general Shareholders’ Meetings without the 
physical presence of shareholders may be held until the 
end of calendar year 2021.
As part of investor relations activities, investors are informed 
comprehensively about developments within the Company. 
For communication purposes, Siemens Energy AG makes 
169
Additional Information
extensive use of the Internet. We publish quarterly state-
ments, half-year financial reports and annual reports, earn-
ings releases, ad hoc announcements, analyst presenta-
tions, letters to shareholders, as well as the financial 
calendar for the current year, which contains the publica-
tion dates of significant financial communications and the 
date of the general Shareholders’ Meeting, at:  www.
siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/investor-  
relations/publications-ad-hoc.html When required, the 
Chairman of the Supervisory Board discusses Supervisory-  
Board-specific topics with investors.
Further information on corporate  
governance practices
Suggestions of the Code
Siemens Energy AG voluntarily complies with the Codes’ 
suggestions, with the following exceptions:
Pursuant to suggestion A.5 of the Code, in the case of a take-
over offer, the Executive Board should convene an extraordi-
nary Shareholders’ Meeting at which shareholders will discuss 
the takeover offer and may decide on corporate actions. The 
convening of a general Shareholders’ Meeting – even taking 
into account the shortened time frames stipulated in the 
German Securities Acquisition and Takeover Act (“Wertpapier -
erwerbs- und Übernahmegesetz”) – is an organizational chal-
lenge for large publicly listed companies. It appears doubtful 
whether the associated effort is justified in cases where no 
relevant decisions by the Shareholders’ Meeting are intended. 
Therefore, extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings shall be 
convened only in appropriate cases.
Pursuant to suggestion D.8 sentence 2, participation in the 
Supervisory Board’s and its committees’ meetings by tele-
phone or video conference should not be the rule. At 
Siemens Energy AG, personal attendance of meetings is 
envisaged as the norm. Participation by video or telephone 
should only take place under exceptional circumstances. 
Due to the exceptional circumstances of the COVID-19 
pandemic, the first meetings of the Supervisory Board and 
its committees took place in part by video conference.
Business Conduct Guidelines
The Business Conduct Guidelines provide the ethical and 
legal framework within which we want to conduct our 
activities and remain on course for success. They contain 
the Basic principles and rules for our conduct within our 
Company and in relation to our external partners and the 
general public. They set out how we meet our ethical and 
legal responsibility as a Company.Equal participation of men and  
women on the Supervisory Board  
and in management positions 
To implement Germany’s Law on the Equal Participation of 
Men and Women in Management Positions (“Gesetz für die 
gleichberechtigte Teilhabe von Frauen und Männern an 
Führungspositionen”), the Supervisory Board has defined a 
target of at least 25% for the percentage of women by 
August 31, 2025, for the Executive Board. 
Once the Supervisory Board is co-determined following 
completion of the status proceedings, the Supervisory 
Board will be composed of women at a minimum ratio of 
30% and of men at a minimum ratio of 30% in accordance 
with Section 96 para. 2 Stock Corporation Act. Until the 
statutory gender quota comes into force, the Supervisory 
Board has set a target of 30% for the proportion of women 
on the Supervisory Board.
Because there was no management level below the Executive 
Board in the organizational structure of Siemens Energy AG 
(as the parent company) during the reporting period, the 
definition of targets for the proportion of women at such 
management levels was not applicable. The Executive 
Board takes diversity into account when filling managerial 
positions. Information regarding our voluntary targets can 
be found in our  Sustainability Report. 
Statutory provisions on equal participation of men and 
women in management positions that may be applicable to 
group companies other than Siemens Energy AG remain 
unaffected.
Diversity concept for the  
Executive Board 
At its meeting on November 9, 2020, the Supervisory Board 
approved the following diversity concept for the composi-
tion of the Executive Board:
When making an appointment to a specific Executive Board 
position, the Supervisory Board’s decision must be guided 
by the Company’s best interest, taking into consideration 
all circumstances in the individual case. In the view of the 
Supervisory Board, the decisive criteria for the selection of 
members of the Executive Board are in particular their 
personal suitability, expertise in their prospective areas of 
responsibility, convincing leadership qualities, achieve-
ments to date, international experience, knowledge of the 
Company, and the ability to adjust business models and 
170
Additional Information
processes in a changing global environment. It must be 
ensured that the members of the Executive Board collec-
tively have the knowledge, skills, and experience, as is 
required to optimally fulfill their duties as Executive Board 
members for a company active in the field of energy and 
technology, such as Siemens Energy.
When considering which personality would best comple-
ment the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board also pays 
attention to aspects of diversity, in particular age, gender, 
educational and professional background, and internation-
ality. The aim is to achieve a composition that is diverse and 
comprises individuals who complement one another in an 
Executive Board that brings different perspectives to the 
management of the Company. 
• The Supervisory Board considers it helpful if different 
age groups are represented on the Executive Board. In 
accordance with the recommendation of the German 
Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board has 
defined an age limit for the members of the Executive 
Board. Accordingly, the members of the Executive Board 
shall should, as a rule, not be older than 63 years of age.
• Diversity also means gender diversity. When selecting 
individuals for Executive Board positions, the targets set 
by the Supervisory Board for the proportion of women 
on the Executive Board must be taken into account. The 
Supervisory Board has established as a target that 25% of 
the Executive Board positions are to be held by women 
by August 31, 2025.
• In addition to the expertise and management and leader -
ship experience required for their specific tasks, the 
 Executive Board members are to have a broad range of 
knowledge and experience and wide educational and 
professional backgrounds.
• Collectively, the Executive Board shall have experience in 
the business areas that are important for Siemens Energy, 
namely energy generation, energy transmission, engi-
neering and construction.
• The Executive Board shall collectively possess knowledge 
of, and experience in, the areas of technology, strategy, 
innovation, manufacturing and production, marketing 
and sales, finances, corporate social responsibility, law 
and compliance, as well as the development and 
management of human resources.
• Siemens Energy operates globally with a workforce stem-
ming from numerous countries and global customer and 
supplier bases. Therefore, the composition of the  Executive Board should take into account internationality 
of its members in the sense of different cultural back -
grounds or international experience. The aim is to ensure 
that there is intercultural openness and the corre-
sponding understanding and ability to assess interna-
tional issues and contexts within the Executive Board.
Status of implementation of the diversity  
concept for the Executive Board
The diversity concept for the Executive Board is imple-
mented as part of the process for making appointments to 
the Executive Board by the Supervisory Board. When 
selecting candidates and/or making proposals for the 
appointment of Executive Board members, the Supervisory 
Board and the Presiding Committee of the Supervisory 
Board take into account the requirements defined in the 
diversity concept for the Executive Board. 
The current composition of the Executive Board largely 
fulfills the diversity concept adopted by the Supervisory 
Board. The members of the Executive Board cover a broad 
spectrum of knowledge and experience and exhibit diversity 
with regard to professional and educational background in 
the Executive Board’s current composition. The Executive 
Board has all the knowledge and experience that is consid-
ered essential in view of the activities of Siemens Energy. All 
Executive Board members have international experience. 
The various career paths and personalities within the Execu-
tive Board reflect the complex tasks it faces. 
In the fiscal year 2020, the Executive Board comprised one 
woman and three men. The proportion of women on the 
Executive Board therefore met the target of 25% that has 
been set by the Supervisory Board. The average age of the 
Executive Board members stood at 52 years at the end of 
the fiscal year 2020. The youngest member was 47 years 
old, with the oldest member aged 58. No Executive Board 
member is currently older than 63 years of age.
Jointly with the Executive Board and with the support of the 
Presiding Committee, the Supervisory Board conducts long-
term succession planning for the Executive Board. In the 
process, the Supervisory Board considers the target it has 
defined for the proportion of women on the Executive Board 
and the criteria set out in the diversity concept it has 
approved for the Executive Board’s composition as well as 
the requirements of the German Stock Corporation Act, the 
Code and the bylaws for the Supervisory Board. 
171
Additional Information
Objectives for the composition of the 
Supervisory Board, Profile of Required 
Skills and Expertise, Diversity Concept 
The diversity concept for the Supervisory Board, together 
with the objectives regarding the Supervisory Board’s 
composition and the profile of required skills and expertise 
for the Supervisory Board, were approved by the Supervi-
sory Board on November 9, 2020:
The Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG shall be 
composed so as to ensure that it is able to effectively 
monitor and advise the Executive Board.
• Personality and integrity  
Each member shall have the personality and integrity 
needed to perform their duties properly. Supervisory 
Board members must always place the interests of the 
Company at the center of their actions as a Supervisory 
Board member. 
• Individual professional abilities  
The candidates proposed for election to the Supervisory 
Board must have the knowledge, skills, and experience 
necessary to carry out the functions of a Supervisory Board 
member in a multinational publicly traded company. Each 
member of the Supervisory Board should know and under -
stand the main product groups, customer groups, and sales 
markets of the Company and its strategy.
• Sufficient time  
Each member of the Supervisory Board must have suffi-
cient time to exercise the mandate with the necessary 
regularity and diligence.
• Limits on age   
In compliance with the age limit stipulated by the Super -
visory Board in its bylaws, only individuals who are no 
older than 70 years of age shall, as a rule, be nominated 
for election to the Supervisory Board. 
• Limit restricting the number of terms on the   
Supervisory Board  
Nominations shall take into account that the Supervisory 
Board has resolved, as a rule, to limit membership on the 
Supervisory Board to three full terms of office. The Super -
visory Board considers it important to regularly exchange 
its members, while at the same time maintaining conti-
nuity within the Board, as long-standing board member -
ship ensures that significant experience and knowledge is 
acquired and promotes trustful cooperation within the 
Supervisory Board, and with the Executive Board.• Professional diversity  
With regard to the composition of the Supervisory Board, 
care must be taken to ensure that its members collectively 
possess the professional skills required to fulfill their duties 
and that they have knowledge and experience in the busi-
ness areas that are important for Siemens Energy, in partic-
ular those of energy generation, transmission, distribution, 
and storage. As a group, the members of the Supervisory 
Board must be familiar with the sector in which the 
Company operates.   
 
In acting in the interests of the Company, the Supervisory 
Board as a whole shall be able to include the interests of all 
relevant stakeholders such as employees, customers, 
investors, and the general public, and actively support 
organizational and technical change.   
 
Technological competence shall be appropriately repre-
sented on the Supervisory Board; in addition, it shall also 
possess expertise in those areas that are considered essen-
tial in view of the activities of Siemens Energy, in particular 
in the areas of strategy, innovation, manufacturing and 
production, marketing and sales, corporate social responsi-
bility, law, in particular corporate governance and compli-
ance, and human resources.   
 
It must be ensured that the Supervisory Board possesses 
the necessary financial competence; at least one member 
of the Supervisory Board shall have expertise in the fields 
of accounting or auditing, as well as specialist knowledge 
and experience in the application of accounting principles 
and internal control processes.   
 
The Supervisory Board shall also include members who 
have leadership experience as senior executives or 
members of a supervisory board (or comparable body) at a 
major company with international operations.
• Diversity  
With regard to the composition of the Supervisory Board, 
attention shall be paid to achieving sufficient diversity. 
This includes diversity in terms of cultural background and 
differences in educational and professional backgrounds, 
experience and ways of thinking, as well as the appro-
priate representation of the genders on the Supervisory 
Board as members. Pursuant to the German Stock Corpo-
ration Act, a Supervisory Board that is subject to co-deter -
mination must be made up of at least 30% women and at 
least 30% men. Until the statutory gender quota comes 
into force, the Supervisory Board has set a target of at 
least 30% for the proportion of women on the Supervisory 
Board. The Nominating Committee must include at least 
one female member. 
172
Additional Information
• Internationality  
Siemens Energy operates globally with a workforce stem-
ming from numerous countries and global customer and 
supplier bases. Having this in mind, the Supervisory Board 
shall include an appropriate number of members possessing 
international experience, so as to ensure that there is inter -
cultural openness and the corresponding understanding, as 
well as the ability to assess international issues and contexts.
• Independence  
The Supervisory Board shall include an appropriate number 
of members representing the shareholders who are inde-
pendent as determined by the shareholder representatives 
on the Supervisory Board. At least six shareholder represen-
tatives shall be independent of the Company and the 
Executive Board. Supervisory Board members shall not be 
members of governing bodies of, or exercise advisory 
functions at, significant competitors of the Company and 
shall not hold a personal relationship with a significant 
competitor. No more than two former members of the 
Executive Board of Siemens Energy AG shall belong to the 
Supervisory Board.
Implementation of the objectives regarding the 
Supervisory Board’s composition as well as the 
profile of required skills and expertise and the 
diversity concept for the Supervisory Board; 
independent Supervisory Board members
In the process of selecting suitable candidates, the Nomi-
nating Committee of the Supervisory Board takes into 
account the objectives regarding the Supervisory Board’s 
composition and the requirements defined in its diversity 
concept. The committee’s recommendations to the Super -
visory Board and the proposal of candidates for election as 
shareholder representatives to the general Shareholders’ 
Meeting in 2021 take the defined targets and diversity 
concept into account and strive to fulfill the profile of skills 
and expertise.  When proposing new Supervisory Board members for election 
by the general Shareholders’ Meeting, the Nomination 
Committee of the Supervisory Board will make sure that the 
candidates have sufficient time to perform their duties. 
The Supervisory Board is of the opinion that, with its current 
composition, it meets the objectives for its composition and 
fulfills the profile of required skills and expertise as well as 
the diversity concept. The Supervisory Board members have 
the specialist and personal qualifications considered neces-
sary. As a group, they are familiar with the sector in which 
the Company operates and have the knowledge, skills, and 
experience essential for Siemens Energy. A considerable 
number of Supervisory Board members are engaged in inter -
national activities and/or have many years of international 
experience. Appropriate consideration has been given to 
diversity in the Supervisory Board. As of September 30, 
2020, the Supervisory Board was made up of four women 
(40%) and six men (60%). Geisha Williams is a member of 
the Nominating Committee.
The Supervisory Board is of the opinion that it also has an 
adequate number of independent members. In its assess-
ment, there are currently at least seven Supervisory Board 
members who are independent within the meaning of the 
Code. The regulations establishing limits on age and 
restricting the number of terms on the Supervisory Board 
are complied with.
173
Additional Information
Members of the Executive Board and positions 
held by Executive Board members
In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, the Executive 
Board had the following members:
Memberships in supervisory boards whose establishment is required 
by law or in comparable domestic or foreign controlling bodies of 
business enterprises
NameDate  
of birthFirst  
appointedTerm  
expiresExternal positions  
(as of September 30, 2020)Group company positions  
(as of September 30, 2020)
Dr.-Ing.  
Christian Bruch
President and Chief  
Executive OfficerApril 7,  
1970May 1,  
2020April 30,  
2025Positions outside Germany:
• Lenzing AG, Austria 1
Dr.-Ing.  
Jochen EickholtJanuary 26, 
1962April 1,  
2020September 30, 
2023Positions outside Germany:
•  EthosEnergy Group Ltd., U.K. 
(Deputy Chairman)
•  Voith Hydro GmbH & Co. KG, Austria 
(Deputy Chairman) 2
Maria Ferraro May 21,  
1973May 1,  
2020September 30, 
2023Positions outside Germany:
•  Siemens Gamesa Renewable 
Energy S.A., Spain 1
Tim Holt September 1, 
1969April 1,  
2020September 30, 
2023Positions outside Germany:
•  EthosEnergy Group Ltd., U.K.
•  Siemens Ltd., India 1Positions outside Germany:
•  Siemens Energy Ltd., Saudi Arabia
•  Siemens Gamesa Renewable 
Energy S.A., Spain 1
•   Siemens Energy WLL, Qatar
Martin Rohbogner 3
(until April 1, 2020)April 27,  
1978August 9, 
2019April 1,  
2020
Wolfgang Seltmann 3
(until April 1, 2020)July 18,  
1963August 9, 
2019April 1,  
2020German positions:4, 5
•  evosoft GmbH
Positions outside Germany:4, 5
• evosoft Kft, Hungary
1 Listed company.
2 Advisory Board.
3 Previously Managing Director of Kyros 52 GmbH (legal predecessor of Siemens Energy AG).
4 As of April 1, 2020.
5 Group company position as of April 1, 2020.
174
Additional Information
Members of the Supervisory Board and  
positions held by Supervisory Board members
In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, the Supervi-
sory Board had the following members:
Name OccupationDate  
of birthMember 
sinceTerm  
expires 1Memberships in supervisory boards whose 
establishment is required by law or in 
comparable domestic or foreign controlling 
bodies of business enterprises  
(as of September 30, 2020)
Joe Kaeser 
Chairman  President and Chief  
Executive Officer of  
Siemens AktiengesellschaftJune 23,  
1957September 25, 
20202021 German positions:
• Daimler AG, Stuttgart, Germany2
• Mercedes-Benz AG, Stuttgart, Germany
•  Siemens Energy Management GmbH, 
Munich, Germany (Chairman)
Positions outside Germany:
•  NXP Semiconductors N.V., Netherlands2
•  Siemens Ltd., India 2, 4
Dr.-Ing.  
Hubert Lienhard
Deputy ChairmanMember of the Supervisory 
Boards of various German 
enterprisesJanuary 12, 
1951September 25, 
20202021 German positions:
•  EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, 
Karlsruhe, Germany2
•  Heraeus Holding GmbH, Hanau, Germany
•  Siemens Energy Management GmbH, 
Munich, Germany
•  SMS GmbH, Düsseldorf
•  SMS group GmbH, Düsseldorf
•  Voith GmbH & Co. KGaA,  
Heidenheim an der Brenz, Germany3
Dr. Christine  
Bortenlänger Managing Director 
Deutsches  
Aktieninstitut e. V.November 17, 
1966September 25, 
20202021 German positions:
•  Covestro AG, Leverkusen, Germany2
•  Covestro Deutschland AG, Leverkusen, 
Germany
•  MTU Aero Engines AG, Munich, Germany2 
•  Osram GmbH, Munich, Germany
•  Osram Licht AG, Munich, Germany2
•  Siemens Energy Management GmbH, 
Munich, Germany 
•  TÜV Süd AG, Munich, Germany
Sigmar Gabriel Former German federal 
minister, author, publicistSeptember 12, 
1959September 25, 
20202021 German positions:
•  Deutsche Bank AG, Frankfurt am Main, 
Germany2
•  GP Günter Papenburg AG, Hanover, 
Germany
•  Siemens Energy Management GmbH, 
Munich, Germany
Steffen Großberger
(until September 25, 
2020)Senior Manager of  
Shareholder Controlling 
Germany at Siemens 
AktiengesellschaftApril 26,  
1972August 9, 
2019September 25, 
2020German positions6:
•  Kyros 51 Aktiengesellschaft, Munich, 
Germany4
Peter Kastenmeier
Chairman
(until September 25, 
2020)Head of Shareholder 
Controlling Germany at 
Siemens AktiengesellschaftSeptember 26, 
1960August 9, 
2019September 25, 
2020German positions6:
•  Flender GmbH, Bocholt, Germany4
•  Kyros 51 Aktiengesellschaft,  
Munich (Chairman), Germany4
•  Maschinenfabrik Reinhausen GmbH,  
Regensburg, Germany4
•  RISICOM Rückversicherung AG,  
Grünwald, Germany4
•  Siemens Gas and Power Management GmbH, 
Munich, Germany4, 7 
•  Siemens Logistics GmbH, Konstanz, Germany4
Table continued on page 175
175
Additional Information
Name OccupationDate  
of birthMember 
sinceTerm  
expires 1Memberships in supervisory boards whose 
establishment is required by law or in 
comparable domestic or foreign controlling 
bodies of business enterprises  
(as of September 30, 2020)
Hildegard Müller President of the Verband 
der Automobilindustrie e.V.June 29,  
1967September 25, 
20202021 German positions:
•  Siemens Energy Management GmbH, 
Munich, Germany 
•  Vonovia SE, Bochum, Germany2
Laurence Mulliez Chair of the Board of 
Directors of Voltalia SA and 
President of Globeleq Ltd.February 6, 
1966September 25, 
20202021 German positions:
•  Siemens Energy Management GmbH, 
Munich, Germany
Positions outside Germany:
•  Globeleq Ltd., U.K.
•  Morgan Advanced Materials plc, U.K.2 
•  SBM Offshore N.V., Netherlands2
•  Voltalia SA, France (Chairman)2
Matthias Rebellius Member of the Managing 
Board of Siemens  
Aktiengesellschaft 5,  
CEO Siemens Smart 
Infrastructure and Chairman 
of Siemens Schweiz AGJanuary 2, 
1965September 25, 
20202021 German positions:
•  Siemens Energy Management GmbH, 
Munich
•  Siemens Mobility GmbH, Munich, Germany 4
Positions outside Germany:
•  Siemens Ltd., Australia 4
Christian Schmid
(until September 25, 
2020)Senior Manager of  
Shareholder Controlling 
Germany at Siemens 
AktiengesellschaftDecember 7, 
1961August 9, 
2019September 25, 
2020German positions6:
•  Kyros 51 Aktiengesellschaft,  
Munich, Germany4
Prof. Dr. rer. pol.  
Ralf P. ThomasChief Financial Officer 
and member of the  
Managing Board of  
Siemens AktiengesellschaftMarch 7,  
1961September 25, 
20202021 German positions:
•  Siemens Energy Management GmbH, 
Munich, Germany
•  Siemens Healthcare GmbH (Chairman), 
Munich, Germany4
•  Siemens Healthineers AG (Chairman), 
Munich, Germany2,4
Positions outside Germany:
•  Siemens Proprietary Limited (Chairman), 
South Africa4
Geisha Jimenez 
WilliamsIndependent 
Energy advisor and 
consultantJuly 21,  
1961September 25, 
20202021 German positions:
•  Siemens Energy Management GmbH, 
Munich, Germany 
Positions outside Germany:
•  Osmose Utility Services, Inc., U.S.A.
Randy Zwirn Member of the Board  
of Directors at Babcock  
Power Inc. February 11, 
1954September 25, 
2020  2021 German positions:
•  Siemens Energy Management GmbH, 
Munich, Germany 
Positions outside Germany:
•  Babcock Power Inc., U.S.A.
1 The term ends at the end of the ordinary general Shareholders’ Meeting.
2 Listed company.
3 Shareholders’ Committee.
4 Siemens Aktiengesellschaft group company.
5 From October 1, 2020.
6 As of September 25, 2020.
7 Now Siemens Energy Management GmbH. Mr. Kastenmeier left the Supervisory Board on September 25, 2020. Table continued from page 174