Siemens Energy ― Annual Shareho lders’ Meeting 2023 ―  Video Communication   
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ELECTRONIC CONNECTION  VIA VIDEO  
 
When connecting to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting via video communication , please take note of the following 
points:  
Recommendations for Ideal Video Communication  
1. Internet access: Your upload/download bandwidth should be a stable 5 Mbps; we recommend 10 Mbps or above. Please make 
sure you have a stable Wi -Fi connection or connect your device to the internet via a LAN cable. If possible, please close  all other 
applications that are bandwidth and CPU -intensive.  
2. VPN connections:  Please note that connecting via an active VPN connection ( virtual private network) may reduce the quality 
of your live audio and video.  
3. Device:  Please use hardware that supports landscape orientation and has either a built -in or wired camera. A headset can help 
improve audio quality. You can use all popular browsers with the latest software updates, e.g., Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge , Mozilla 
Firefox, and Safari.  
4. Access:  Please note that you must be logged into the Internet Service with the Shareholder Control N umber that you used to 
register your request to speak. After your name has been called by the chair of the meeting, to prepare for you r live appearance, a 
dialog box will be displayed in the Internet Service that will enable you to enter the virtual waiting room. Upon confirming, you can 
enter the virtual waiting room. We will then test the technical functionality of your audio and video  connection.  
5. Functionality test:  After entering the virtual waiting room, you will be greeted by our technical staff (operator) to check your 
audio and video quality. Please remain in the virtual waiting room until the operator contacts you.  
6. Connecting to the meeting:  Once the functio nality of your system has been successfully tested, you will be connected live 
to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting as soon as the chair of the meeting calls you by name. After the chair has given you the floor, 
you can begin speaking.  
 
Tips for Your Live Appearance  
1. Clothing:  Please avoid wearing tops with small checkered or plaid patterns, as these patterns could create a moiré effect 
(flickering) in the video image.  
2. Environment:  Please ensure that the environment around you is quiet with as little background noise as possible. If possible, 
place your device on a solid surface and try to avoid making any sudden hand movements that could cause the video image to sh ake. 
3. Lighting:  Please ensure that you are well illuminated when speaking (e.g. , with a lamp that illuminates your face with a pleasant 
level of brightness). Avoid bright light sources in the background or from the side, such as a bright window.  
4. Camera position:  If possible, position your camera so that you can be seen in the cen ter of the frame and are looking head -on 
into the camera. Set the camera to 16:9 landscape orientation.  
5. Miscellaneous:  Please mute cell phones and do not place them directly on your device, as this could cause interference. If 
possible, please quit emai l programs and messenger services on your device other than the Internet Service in order to prevent 
notifications from appearing that could distract you from your live appearance and be heard by other meeting participants.  
