 © 2020 Siemens Energy  Page  1 
 
 
Terms and conditions  
T erms and conditions of use and notes  for the Internet Service for shareholders   
siemens -energy.com   

 
 Terms and conditions of use and 
notes for the Internet Service for 
shareholders  
 
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting  of Siemens Energy AG on February 24, 2022  
1. Scope of application  
These terms and conditions of use and notes apply to all shareholders and their proxy representatives who use the Internet 
Service at www.siemens -energy.com/agm -service , as part of virtual Shareholders’ Meetings on the basis of the Act on 
Measures in Corporate Law, Cooperatives Law, Associations Law, Trust Law, and Residential Sectional Ownership Law to Com-
bat the Effects of the COVID -19 Pandemic of March 27, 2020 (Federal L aw Gazette I No. 14 2020, p. 570), which was last 
amended by Article 15 of the act to establish a special fund “Reconstruction Aid 2021” and to temporarily suspend the obli-
gation to file for insolvency due to heavy rainfalls and floods in July 2021 and to amend further acts of September 10, 2021 
(“Gesetz zur Errichtung eines Sondervermögens „Aufbauhilfe 2021“ und zur vorübergehenden Aussetzung der Insolvenzan-
tragspflicht wegen Starkregenfällen und Hochwassern im Juli 2021 sowie zur Änderung weiterer Gesetze  vom 10. September 
2021”) (Federal Law Gazette I No. 63, p. 4147). These terms and conditions of use and notes apply to notification of attend-
ance at Shareholders’ Meetings of Siemens Energy AG, absentee voting online, appointment of a proxy and submission  of 
voting instructions or changes thereof and to the use of the possibility to ask questions, the possibility to submit statemen ts, 
the declaration of objections, the inspection of the list of attendance and the confirmation of vote -counting. They also ap ply 
to all shareholders and their proxy representatives who follow the live transmission of the entire Shareholders’ Meetings on 
the Internet as well as to all shareholders who have registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meeti ngs 
using an Access Password selected by themselves. Electronic delivery comprises, in particular, e -mail. Siemens Energy AG 
reserves the right to decide whether it offers electronic means of delivery and, if so, which ones.  
 
2. Stability and availability of  the Internet Service / Disclaimer  
The technical and organizational measures we have taken to ensure the availability and performance of our Internet Service 
as well as data security comply with the state of the art. However, given the current state of the  art, fluctuations and disrup-
tions may still occur in the availability, performance, stability, and reliability of our Internet Service. Neither Siemens E nergy 
AG nor the service providers it commissions nor your appointed proxy representatives of Siemens Energy AG, intermediaries 
(e.g. credit institutions), shareholders’ associations, proxy advisors or persons who tender the service commercially to shar e-
holders of exercising their voting rights at the shareholders’ meeting (hereinafter referred to together  as “intermediaries”) 
have control over the availability, performance, stability, and reliability of the telecommunications network or of the Inter net 
services and network elements provided by third parties. Neither Siemens Energy AG nor its proxy represen tatives can guar-
antee, or accept any liability for, the availability, performance, stability, and reliability of the telecommunications netwo rk, 
or of the Internet services and network elements provided by third parties, or for uninterrupted access to our Internet Service. 
Furthermore, Siemens Energy AG and the proxy representatives nominated by the company accept no responsibility what-
soever for errors and defects in the hardware and software used for the Internet Service or for the live transmission of th e 
Shareholders’ Meeting on the Internet, including the hardware and software of the service providers involved, provided there 
has been no intentional wrongdoing or gross negligence. If deemed necessary for security reasons, Siemens Energy AG re-
serves the right to suspend or discontinue the Internet Service without further notice. If you experience any technical prob-
lems, please contact us by e -mail at hv -service.siemens -energy@adeus.de. From the day on which the invitations to Share-
holders’ Meetings of Sie mens Energy AG are dispatched, you can also contact the shareholder hotline (available Monday 
through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET/CEST) at +49 89 636 25358.  
3. Notification of attendance (online) at the Shareholders' Meeting  
 
a.  General information  
  
Shareholders who are registered in the Company’s share register may notify attendance at the Shareholders’ Meeting via the 
Internet Service. To do this, go to www.siemens -energy.com/agm -service and click on “Notification of attendance at the 
Annual Shareholders’ Meeting”. They can then decide to cast their votes by absentee voting online or by appointing the proxy 
representatives nominated by Siemens Energy AG, the intermediaries participating in the Internet Service or third parties. 
Please a lso observe the notes in the Notice of the Shareholders’ Meeting, especially concerning the notification deadline and 
the technical record date.  
 
   
If you use the Internet Service, any absentee voting, proxy authorization and instruction or the revoking thereof submitted 
under the same Shareholder Control Number by means other than the Internet Service is rendered invalid, unless the decla-
ration submi tted by means other than the Internet Service and at a later time clearly reveals that it should take precedence 
over the declaration submitted via the Internet Service.  
 
If you have received several invitations with different Shareholder Control Numbers, please complete the online notification 
of attendance at the Shareholders’ Meeting separately for each Shareholder Control Number.  
  
After timely notification of your attendance, you may use our Internet Service to change your online absentee votes or proxy 
authorization and voting instructions until the beginning of voting on the agenda items on the day of the Shareholders’ Meet-
ing. 
  
The following special circumstances apply to the use of our Internet Service for notification of attendance from interm ediar-
ies: When notifying attendance by intermediaries pursuant to a permanent proxy appointment, the proxy appointment and 
voting instructions cannot be displayed in the Internet Service for technical reasons. The possibility of changing how voting  
rights are exercised using the Internet Service remains unaffected thereby. Use of our Internet Service to give notification of 
attendance renders any other notification of attendance by way of a permanent proxy appointment by an intermediary using 
the same  Share holder Control Number invalid.  
  
We recommend that you use our Internet Service as early as possible to ensure that, in the event of service failure, you will  
be able to use alternative ways, in due time and in the form required, to notify attendance, vote  by absentee voting, appoint 
proxies and give voting instructions, provide proof of authority therefor, and update address details. In the event of servic e 
failure, shareholders who have registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Me etings and therefore no 
longer receive registration documents by regular mail are requested to call the shareholder hotline (available Monday 
through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET/CEST) at +49 89 636 25358 or send an e -mail to  hv-service.siemens -
energy@adeus.de . 
  
  
b.  Access data  
  
Access to our Internet Service is password -protected. The same applies to the live transmission of the Shareholders’ Meeting 
on the Internet. You can obtain online access by entering your Shareholder Control Number and your Personal Identification 
Number (PIN) or the Access Password selected by yourself. Please find your Shareholder  Control Number and your Personal 
Identification Number in the materials  sent to you. Shareholders who have registered for electronic delivery of invitations to 
Shareholders’ Meetings with an Access Password selected by them must use this Access Password instead of the PIN.  
  
If you have forgotten your access data, please cont act the shareholder hotline (available Monday through Friday from 9:00 
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET/CEST) at +49 89 636 25358 or send an e -mail to hv -service.siemens -energy@adeus.de. If you have 
registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ M eetings with an Access Password selected by yourself and 
have forgotten it, please use the function “Access Password forgotten?” in the Internet Service to request a temporarily vali d 
Access Password.  
  
c. Absentee voting online  
  
You can use the Internet Service to cast absentee votes (absentee voting online). To do this, go to  www.siemens -
energy.com/agm -service  and click on “Absentee voting online”.  
  
After timely  notification of your attendance, you may submit or change your absentee votes until the beginning of voting on 
the agenda items on the day of the Shareholders’ Meeting. You may also revoke your absentee voting along with the corre-
sponding vote and choose another method of exercising your voting rights.  
  
Please also note in this case the special circumstances pertaining to any other form of notification of attendance by an inte r-
mediary (see point 3a. above).  
  
d.  Appointment of proxy representatives nomin ated by Siemens Energy AG  
  
You can use the Internet Service to authorize the proxy representatives appointed by Siemens Energy AG. To do this, go 
to www.siemens -energy.com /agm -service  and click on “Authorize a proxy nominated by  Siemens Energy”.  
  
A proxy appointment made by using our Internet Service is considered proof of authorization vis -à-vis Siemens Energy AG.  
  
The proxy representatives nominated by the company will then vote in accordance with your instructions without disclosing 
your name, that is, “in the name of whom it concerns”. Please note that the proxy representatives nominated by the company 
can only vo te your shares on agenda items on which you have given voting instructions. They will not accept any instructions 
 
 for requests to speak, to ask questions or to submit proposals or to raise objections to resolutions of the Shareholders’ Mee t-
ing. 
  
After tim ely notification of your attendance, you may submit or change your voting instructions to proxy representatives 
nominated by Siemens Energy AG until the beginning of voting on the agenda items on the day of the Shareholders’ Meeting. 
You may also revoke yo ur proxy authorization along with the corresponding voting instructions and choose another method 
of exercising your voting rights.  
  
Proxy representatives, including authorized intermediaries, may also be represented by proxy representatives nominated by 
Siemens Energy AG in exercising voting rights in accordance with their instructions, subject to any provisions to the contrar y 
of those represented.  
  
Please also note in this case the special circumstances pertaining to any other form of notification of a ttendance by an inter-
mediary (see point 3a. above).  
  
e.    Appointment of intermediaries  
 
For the authorization of intermediaries, a distinction is made between those intermediaries that participate in the Internet 
Service and those that do not.  
  
i)    You can appoint intermediaries participating in the Internet Service via the Internet Service. To do this, go to www.sie-
mens -energy.com/agm -service  and click on “Proxy authorization to an intermediary, shareholders’ association or others”.  
  
A proxy appointment made by using our Internet Service is considered proof of authorization vis -à-vis Siemens Energy AG.  
  
The intermediaries will represent you without disclosing your name, that is, “in the name of whom it concerns”.  
  
After timely notification of your attendance, you may submit or change your voting instructions until the beginning of voting  
on the agenda items on the day of the Shareholders’ Me eting. You may also revoke your proxy authorization along with the 
corresponding voting instructions and choose another method of exercising your voting rights.  
  
Please also note in this case the special circumstances pertaining to any other form of notif ication of attendance by an inter-
mediary (see point 3a. above).  
  
ii)   If you wish to authorize an intermediary that does not participate in the Internet Service, we will be pleased to send you 
a proxy authorization form on request. To request it, please contact the shareholder hotline (available Monday through Friday 
from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET/CEST) at +49 89 636 25358 or send an e -mail to hv -service.siemens -energy@adeus.de.  
  
Contact your intermediary directly for information about procedures for ex ercising your voting rights. Please note that many 
credit institutions are no longer prepared to act as proxies.  
  
Only the authorized intermediary will be responsible for exercising your voting rights.  
4. Possibility to ask questions  
After timely notification of their attendance, shareholders or their proxy representatives may direct questions to the Manag-
ing Board in the Internet Service. To do this, go to  www.siem ens-energy.com/agm -service  and click on “Submit question” or 
“Add question”. Such questions must be received by Siemens Energy AG via the Internet Service by no later than the time 
specified in the Notice of the Shareholders’ Meeting. It is not possible to ask questions after this time and in particular not 
during the virtual Shareholders’ Meeting. You can obtain online access to the Internet Service by entering your Shareholder 
Control Number and your Personal Identification Number (PIN) or the Access Password selected by yourself.  Please find 
your  Shareholder Control Number and your Personal Identification Number in the materials sent to you. Shareholders who 
have registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings with an Access Password selected by them 
must use this Access Password instead of the PIN.  
5. Submission of statements  
After timely notification of attendance, shareholders or their proxy representatives may submit text or video statements 
relating to the agenda. To do this, go to www.siemens -energ y.com/agm -service and click on “Submit a statement”. Such 
statements must be received by Siemens Energy AG via the Internet Service by no later than the time specified in the Notice 
of the Shareholders’ Meeting. It is not possible to submit statements afte r this time and in particular not during the virtual 
Shareholders’ Meeting.  
Statements submitted on time and meeting the requirements set out in the Notice of the Shareholders’ Meeting and other 
technical requirements will be made available in a timely man ner in the Internet Service under “Overview of Statements”, 
with the name and the place of residence or registered office of the shareholder or proxy representative who submitted the 
 
 statement being disclosed, and can be viewed by other shareholders and th eir proxy representatives. Siemens Energy AG 
also reserves the right to show the video statements it has made available during the webcast of the Shareholders’ Meeting, 
disclosing the name and the place of residence or registered office of the shareholder or proxy representative who submitted 
the statement.  
There is no legal entitlement to have submitted statements published or played. In particular, the Company reserves the right  
not to publish and play statements that do not fully comply with the above re quirements. The same applies to statements 
with a content that is libelous, discriminatory, unlawful in any other way or manifestly false or misleading and to statement s 
that do not meet the technical requirements from the Company’s perspective or statemen ts that exceed a length of 10,000 
characters or – in the case of a video statement – a length of three minutes. No more than either one statement in text form 
or one video statement per shareholder will be published or played.  
 
Any proposals, election nomi nations, questions and objections to resolutions of the Shareholders’ Meeting in the submitted 
statements will not be considered. They must be submitted solely in the manner specified in the Notice of Shareholders’ 
Meeting.  
 
The revocation of a statement m ust be submitted by e -mail to hv-service.siemens -energy@adeus.de  stating the name and Share-
holder Control Number. Please note that, for technical reasons, a notice of revocation must be received by no later than 6 
p.m. CET on February 23, 2022, so that it can be taken into account and acted upon in time for the Shareholders’ Meeting on 
February 24, 2022.  
 
You can obtain online access to the Internet Service by entering your Shareholder Control Number  and your Personal Identi-
fication Number (PIN) or the Access Password selected by yourself. Please find your Shareholder Control Number and your 
Personal Identification Number in the materials sent to you. Shareholders who have registered for electronic de livery of 
invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings with an Access Password selected by them must use this Access Password instead of 
the PIN.  
6. Objection for the record  
Shareholders who are registered as shareholders of Siemens Energy AG in the Company’s sha re register and who have sub-
mitted timely notification of attendance at the Shareholders’ Meeting and their proxy representatives may, from the begin-
ning to the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting, use the Internet Service to declare objections to resolutions  of the Sharehold-
ers’ Meeting for the record. To do this, go to  www.siemens -energy.com/agm -service  and click on “Declare objection”. The 
notary receives the objections via the Internet Service. You can obtain online access to the Internet Service by entering you r 
Shareholder Control Number and your Personal Identification Number (PIN) or the Access Pas sword selected by yourself. 
Please find your Shareholder Control Number and your Personal Identification Number in the materials sent to you. Share-
holders who have registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings with an Access P assword selected 
by them must use this Access Password instead of the PIN.  
7. Live transmission of the Shareholders' Meeting  
The entire Shareholders’ Meeting will be webcast live in sound and vision for shareholders of Siemens Energy AG and their 
proxy rep resentatives as of the beginning of the Shareholders’ Meeting via the Internet Service at www.siemens -en-
ergy.com/agm -service . You can obtain access to the Internet Service by entering your  Shareholder Control Number and your 
Personal Identification Number (PIN) or the Access Password selected by yourself. Please find your  Shareholder Control Num-
ber and your Personal Identification Number in the materials sent to you. Shareho lders who have registered for electronic 
delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings with an Access Password selected by them must use this Access Password 
instead of the PIN.  
  
A recording of the live transmission in its entirety will not be made. a  recording of the opening of the Shareholders’ Meeting 
and of the statements by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and of the President and CEO of the Executive Board will be 
available after the Shareholders’ Meeting at www.siemens -energy.com/agm . 
  
The live transmission of the Shareholders’ Meeting does not allow for a participation in the Shareh olders’ Meeting within the 
meaning of Section 118 (1) sentence 2 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG).  
8. List of attendance  
During the virtual Shareholders’ Meeting, the list of attendance will be available via the Internet Service prior to the first vote. 
To call it, go to  www.siemens -energy.com/agm -service  and click on “List of attendance”. You can obtain online access to the 
Internet Service by entering your Sh areholder Control Number and your Personal Identification Number (PIN) or the Access 
Password selected by yourself. Please find your Shareholder Control Number and your Personal Identification Number in the 
materials sent to you. Shareholders who have regi stered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings with 
an Access Password selected by them must use this Access Password instead of the PIN.  
 
 
  
9. Confirmation of vote -counting  
Within one month as of the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting, anyone who has voted can obtain a confirmation on whether 
and how his or her votes were counted via the Internet Service. To do this, go to www.siemens -energy.com/agm -service  and 
click on “Confi rmation of vote -counting”.  
In this case, the confirmation will be provided via the Internet Service. Alternatively, anyone who has voted can contact the  
shareholder hotline (available Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET/CEST) at +49 89 63 6 25 358. You can 
obtain online access to the Internet Service by entering your Shareholder Control Number and your Personal Identification 
Number (PIN) or the Access Password selected by yourself. Please find your Shareholder Control Number and your Perso nal 
Identification Number in the materials sent to you. Shareholders who have registered for electronic delivery of invitations t o 
Shareholders’ Meetings with an Access Password selected by them must use this Access Password instead of the PIN  
 
10. Registration for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings  
 
a. General information  
  
We require your consent in order to deliver invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings of Siemens Energy AG to you by electronic 
means. You can provide this consent via our Internet Service by registering for electronic delivery of invitations to Sharehold-
ers’ Meetings using an Access Password selected by yourself.  
  
If you successfully complete your registration no later than about seven weeks prior to a Shareholders’ Meeting of Siemens 
Energy AG, the invitation to that Shareholders’ Meeting will be delivered to your registered e -mail address. Registrations that 
are not completed by this deadline will not take effect until the subsequent Shareholders’ Meet ing. 
  
If the invitation to the Shareholders’ Meeting is not delivered to you electronically in good time – despite your having regis-
tered for this service – please contact the shareholder hotline at +49 89 636 25358 (available Monday through Friday from 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET/CEST).  
  
b. Providing your registration data  
  
Electronic address  
If we send you electronic messages in preparation for the Shareholders’ Meeting and receive an error message indicating 
that our message could not be delivered, we will resend you the invitation by regular mail. Each shareholder is responsible 
for ensuring that his or her registered electronic address is capable of receiving e -mails and that incoming e -mails are read. 
If your electronic address changes, please inform  us via the Internet Service at  www.siemens -energy.com/agm -service . 
Please note that this feature is available to you only if you have already registered for electronic del ivery of invitations to 
Shareholders’ Meetings using an Access Password selected by yourself.  
  
Access Password  
You can use the Internet Service to select an individual Access Password that is valid indefinitely. Please ensure this Acces s 
Password is kept secret. You will need the Access Password in the future to change your registration information and your 
postal address listed in the share register, as well as to use the Internet Service for all (i.e. virtual and in -person) Shareholders’ 
Meetings of  Siemens Energy AG.  
  
c. Notification of attendance at the Shareholders’ Meeting after registration for electronic delivery  
Once you are registered for electronic delivery, you will no longer be sent a printed form to notify attendance at the Share-
holders’ Meeting to the postal address listed in the share register. Instead, we will send the invitations to Shareholders’ 
Meetings to your registered e -mail address only. You may notify attendance at the Shareholders’ Meeting via the Internet 
Servic e and then exercise your voting rights by deciding to cast your votes by absentee voting online or by appointing the 
proxy representatives nominated by Siemens Energy AG, the intermediaries participating in the Internet Service or third par-
ties to exercise  your voting rights or – in the case of an in -person Shareholders’ Meeting – by ordering an admission ticket for 
yourself or another person authorized by you.  
  
d. Changing your registration data; revocation of consent to electronic delivery of invitations  to Shareholders’ Meetings  
 If you have already registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings and selected your own Access 
Password, you can use the Internet Service to change your e -mail address or the Access Password selecte d by yourself. Our 
Internet Service is available to you throughout the year at www.siemens -energy.com/agm -service . If you change your e -mail 
address after technical prepara tions for the dispatch of invitations to the upcoming Shareholders’ Meeting have already 
commenced, we can only take your changes into consideration for the subsequent Shareholders’ Meeting.  
  
Your consent to electronic delivery of invitations to Sharehold ers’ Meetings is not limited and is thus valid until further notice. 
You may revoke your consent at any time. To do so, please contact one of the following addresses, providing your name, 
 
 Shareholder Control Number and your address: by e -mail to hv -service .siemens -energy@adeus.de or by regular mail to Sie-
mens Energy AG, c/o ADEUS Aktienregister -Service -GmbH, 20621 Hamburg, Germany. You can also revoke your consent to 
electronic delivery via the Internet Service at www.siemens -energy.com/agm -service . Please note that this feature is availa-
ble to you only if you have already registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings using an Acce ss 
Password sel ected by yourself.  
  
If you revoke your consent to electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings, you will receive the invitations to 
Shareholders’ Meetings by regular mail again. You may revoke your consent at any time. However, if the revo cation does not 
occur until after the technical preparations for the dispatch of invitations to the upcoming Shareholders’ Meeting have al-
ready begun, it will not apply until the subsequent Shareholders’ Meeting. In that case, however, we will endeavor to send 
you the invitation to the current Shareholders’ Meeting by regular mail to the postal address listed in the share register as  
well.  
  
e. Disposal of your Siemens Energy shares between Shareholders’ Meetings  
 If you dispose of all your Siemens Energy s hares between two Shareholders’ Meetings and then acquire shares in Siemens 
Energy AG again and those shares are registered in the share register by about seven weeks before the next Shareholders’ 
Meeting of Siemens Energy AG, the consent you previously pr ovided to electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ 
Meetings before you disposed of your shares shall continue to apply. About seven weeks before each Shareholders’ Meeting, 
we check which shareholders registered for electronic delivery have shar es listed in the share register in order to prepare for 
the delivery of the invitations. If you have no shares listed in the share register at that point in time, your consent to el ectronic 
delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings is canceled auto matically. If you acquire Siemens Energy shares again at a 
later date and these shares are registered for you in the share register, you will receive invitations to Shareholders’ Meeti ngs 
of Siemens Energy AG by regular mail.  
11. Communities of owners / le gal entitie s 
Please note that, in the case of shareholders registered in the share register as a community of owners (for example, husband  
and wife), the person using the Internet Service must have been authorized to do so by all members of the community of 
owners. In the case of partnerships or legal entities, the person using the Internet Service must have been authorized to do 
so by the partnership or legal entity for which that person is acting, or must have the right to represent the legal entity /  
partnership. By accessing and using our Internet Service you acknowledge that you have the appropriate authorization.  
12. Notes on the Prize Draw  
All shareholders who are registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings of Siemens Energy AG wil l 
take part in a prize draw to win one out of five Apple iPad (10,2 Zoll, Wi -Fi, 64 GB) (without network access contract). If you 
would like to participate in this prize draw, you must be registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ 
Meetings of Siemens Energy AG by February 24, 2022. All shareholders and shareholder groups registered in the share regis-
ter and registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings on February 24, 2022, will automatically 
participate in the prize draw.  
  
Shareholders who, as employees of Siemens Energy AG, are entrusted with the organization and operation of the Internet 
Service for the Shareholders’ Meeting, or who are employees of ADEUS Aktienregister -Service GmbH are excluded from t he 
prize draw.  
  
Payment of the equivalent cash value of the prize is excluded.  
  
The winners will be drawn until the end of March 2022 by the share register provider of Siemens Energy AG, ADEUS Aktien-
register -Service -GmbH, under the supervision of a notar y and subsequently informed in writing to the address recorded in 
the share register.  
Please also note our terms and conditions for registration for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings ( see 
point 10 above).  
  
German law shall apply exclusively. Any recourse to legal action is excluded.  
13. User’s duty of care  
For security purposes, please do not disclose your Shareholder Control Number and your Personal Identification Number 
(PIN) or your Access Password to any unauthorized per son.  
If you have any reason to suspect improper activity, you should block your access by calling the shareholder hotline (availab le 
Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CET/CEST) at +49 89 636 25358 or send an e -mail to hv -service.siemens -
energy@adeus.de. If you have already registered for electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders’ Meetings using an 
Access Password selected by yourself, you should at least change your Access Password. Once access is blocked, you may still 
use alternat ive ways to notify attendance (provided the notification deadline has not expired), vote by absentee voting, ap-
point proxies, give voting instructions, provide proof of authority therefor, and update address details and – in the case of an 
in-person Shareh olders’ Meeting – order an admission ticket, in the due time and in the form required. Please note that you 
 
 can use the possibility to ask questions, submit statements, declare objections, inspect the list of attendance and follow th e 
live transmission of the Shareholders’ Meeting in its entirety on the Internet only via the Internet Service at  www.siemens -
energy.com/agm -service . 
  
Please also make sure that you log out from the Internet Service correctly. By correctly logging out from the program, you 
also prevent unauthorized persons from viewing or manipulating your data during your absence. The action you perform will 
not be properly recorded until you receive confirm ation of the transaction in question. If the transaction is interrupted prem-
aturely (for example, by clicking on “Exit service” or by closing the window), the action you perform will not be properly 
recorded.  
14. Information on data protection  
You can find  information on processing of your personal data in connection with the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Internet 
Service and the share register at www.siemens -energy.com/agm -privacy . You can obtain more information relating to data 
protection in our Data Privacy Notice at www.siemens.energy.com/privacy . We will also gladly send you this information by 
regular mail. Please contact us by e -mail to hv -service.siemens -energy@adeus.de or by regular mail to Siemens Energy, c/o 
ADEUS Akt ienregister -Service -GmbH, 20621 Hamburg, Germany.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy AG  
Chai rman of the Supervisory Board: Joe Kaeser  
 
Executive Board:  
Christian Bruch, President and Chief Executive 
Officer;  
Jochen Eickholt , Maria Ferraro, Tim Oliver Holt  
 
Registered Office: Munich, Germany  
Commercial Registry: Munich, HRB 252581  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by  
Siemens AG.  
 
  
  
Published  by 
 
Siemens  Energy  AG 
Otto -Hahn -Ring  6 
81739  München  
Germany  
Media  Relations:  press@siemens -energy.com  
Investor  Relations:  investorrelations@siemens -energy.com  
Siemens  Energy  is a trademark  licensed  by Siemens  AG . 
siemens -energy.com  
© Siemens  Energy,  2021 