 
 
Declaration of the Executive Board on Agenda Item 10  
 
Dear shareholders,  
Under Agenda Item 10 of our Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting on February 20, 2025, we ask for your 
approval to authorize us to hold Shareholders ’ Meetings in virtual format for an additional two years.  
As stated there, we are convinced of the many positive aspects of the virtual format. Since its 
comprehensive statutory revision in 2022, this format has proven its worth not only at our own Annual 
Shareholders ’ Meetings, but also at those of numerous other companies with a large shareholder base. 
This allows shareholders to exercise their rights effectively, comprehensively and interactively. At the 
same time, the virtual format  enables companies to obtain the necessary resolutions in a legally 
compliant a nd efficient manner while making the Shareholders ’ Meeting more accessible to many 
shareholders, particularly those from abroad . In our view, the virtual format provides also benefits  from 
a cost and sustainability perspective. The upcoming Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2025 of our 
company will therefore once again be held virtually.  
At the same time, Siemens Energy AG has never held a physical Shareholders' Meeting in its history. 
We know that many of our shareholders therefore are eager  to get to know the company personally 
and directly and to enter into an “analog” exchange with us.  
Against this backdrop, we have decided to hold the Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting in 2026 as a physical 
meeting  for the first time.  
However, should exceptionally  circumstances, such as a new pandemic situation, prevent us from 
holding a  Shareholders ’ Meeting in person, we must be able to adapt to the situation and switch flexibly 
to the virtual format. We therefore ask for your approval to extend the authorization, which expires in 
March 2025, by a n additional  two years. You will then have another opportunity to vote on a further 
extension of the authorization at the latest at the Annual Shareholders ’ Meeting  in 2027 . 
As explained in more detail in the Notice of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting  under Agenda Item 10, 
we will make the decision on the use of the authorization in the interests of the company and its 
shareholders and in consultation with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Comprehensively 
safeguarding shareholders' rights is our top priority  in this regard .  
I would like to thank you for your understanding and your continued support. We look forward to 
welcoming you in person in 2026.  
Yours sincerely,  
 
Siemens Energy AG  
The Executive Board  
