Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin, August 7, 2023  
Siemens Energy quantifies charges for  
ramp -up challenges at Siemens Gamesa  
 
Siemens Energy has concluded a status report analyzing quality problems at the onshore platforms 
4.X and 5.X of its wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa following the ad hoc release of June 22.  
 
Onshore quality  
The largest proportion of the quality problems that can occur after a given turbine runtime are 
certain rotor blades and main bearings in the 4.X and 5.X platforms. However , these are not 
installed in all turbines on the 4.X and 5.X platforms, so only a limited number of the onshore 
turbines are affected. The turbines can still be operated, but to ensure a long -term runtime , the aim 
is to rectify the problems within the  normal service intervals. A task force consisting of experts from 
Siemens Gamesa and Siemens Energy has been established to deal with the identified problems on 
the 4.X and 5.X platforms. The team of experts is supported by AlixPartners, a consulting comp any 
specializing in the effective handling of complex projects.  
The expected costs for remedying the quality problems have been considered in the 3rd quarter, 
with charges for future expenses amounting to €1.6 billion . The immediate liquidity outflow  in 
fiscal 2023 is low. The main part of the expected repair costs is expected in fiscal 2024 and 2025.  
 
Offshore Ramp -up 
In addition to the quality -related charges, Siemens Gamesa expects higher product costs in the 
offshore sector, which means that projects already committed to contractually cannot be completed 
profitably if implemented by the customer. In addition, there are further challenges in the ramp -up 
of offshore activities. Both effects lead to additional charges of €600 million in the 3rd quarter. The 
cash outflow resulting from these burdens will be spread over several years and amount to a low 
two-to-three -digit sum in the current year.  
 
In order to achieve the ambitious EU -wide targets for renewable energies, the rate of expansion, 
especially of offshore wind turbines must be rapidly increased. Every year, 30 gigawatts  (GW)  must 
be added to reach the targets set by 2030 (comparison: total installed capacity currently 255  GW).  Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
Siemens Gamesa is currently in the process of ramping up various factories for offshore production 
or converting them to larger turbines, including in France, Germany, Denmark and the United 
Kingdom . The continuing tight procurement market and the strained labor market are contributing 
to these burdens.  
 
Other financial imp lications  
Finally, the net result will be additionally burdened by the write -down of deferred tax assets of 
approximately €700 million . 
Despite these additional charges, Siemens Energy still has a strong balance sheet with cash and 
cash equivalents of  around €4.3 billion. The rating agency S&P Ratings confirmed its investment -
grade rating for Siemens Energy at the end of June.  
In contrast to the challenges in the wind business, Siemen Energy's conventional energy business 
achieved excellent results in the third quarter.  
 
Forecast full year 2023  
The results of the analysis lead to a reassessment of the full -year guidance. For the fiscal year 
ending September 30, Siemens Energy expects comparable revenue growth to be in a range of 9% 
to 11% (previously 10% to 12%) and a Profit margin before Special  items between negative 10% and 
negative 8% (previously around the low end of the guidance range of positive 1% to positive 3%). 
Net loss of Siemens Energy Group now is expected to be around €4.5  billion  (previously expected to 
exceed prior fiscal year’s level o f €712  million  by up to a low -triple -digit million € amount). 
Expected is  now a Free cash flow pre tax for fiscal year 2023 up to a negative low triple -digit  
million € amount (previously positive up to a low triple -digit million € amount) . 
 
Measures initiated  
The S upervisory Board of Siemens Energy has set up a special committee for a detailed investigation 
of the quality and productivity problems at Siemens Gamesa. Independent external experts have 
critically reviewed and positively assessed the methodology used to  calculate theoretical future 
failure rates as well as expected follow -up costs. A cross -functional task force, consisting of experts 
from Siemens Gamesa, Siemens Energy and Alix Partners, has been tasked with resolving the 
quality issues for the 4.X and 5 .X. In addition, certain third -party suppliers were excluded from 
further deliveries.  
Due to the developments at Siemens Gamesa, Siemens Energy is  reviewing the current strate gy and 
action plan in the wind business. Details of this strategic plan will be presented at the Capital 
Markets Day in November.   
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact for journalists  
Tim Proll -Gerwe  
Phone:  +49 (0) 152 2283 5652  
E-Mail:  tim.proll -gerwe@siemens -energy.com   
 
Oliver Sachgau  
Phone:  +49 (0) 173 272 9231  
E-Mail:  oliver.sachgau@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is available at 
www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on X (Twitter ) at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. Wi th its portfolio of 
products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation 
and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and 
steam  turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. A majority stake in 
the wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for 
renewable energies. An estima ted one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens 
Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 9 3,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of 
€29 billion in fiscal year 2022. www.siemens -energy. com. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 