Press release
Siemens Energy AG
Communications
Head: Robin ZimmermannOtto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich
Germany
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 1 of 2
Munich, February 9, 2022
Karim Amin appointed new Executive Board
Member of Siemens Energy succeeding
Jochen Eickholt
The Siemens Energy Supervisory Board appointed Karim Amin as Member of the Executive Board,
effective March 1, 2022. Karim Amin (44) is succeeding Jochen Eickholt (60) who will leave
Siemens Energy to serve as the new CEO at Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, in which Siemens
Energy holds a majority stake of 67%. Karim Amin currently is Executive Vice President for the
Siemens Energy Generation division. As member of the executive board, he will be responsible for
the Generation and Industrial Applications divisions and continue to lead the Generation business.
Karim served in various management positions and had experience in service operations, sales,
product management and lately was responsible for the biggest division within Siemens Energy
(26.000 employees). He graduated from Cairo University as an Electrical Engineer and holds an MBA
from Warwick Business School in the UK. Karim has been leading the performance improvement for
the Generation Division since the establishment of Siemens Energy.
“Karim is an excellent leader. His passion for customers, people and competitive edge is
outstanding. I’ve known him for over a decade and value his experience and dedication for our
industry and his relentless efforts to drive innovation and decarbonization at all levels of the value
chain,“ said Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy.
Contact for journalists
Felix Sparkuhle
Phone:  +49 (0)172 6347850
E-mail: felix.sparkuhle@siemens-energy.com
This press release and a press picture is available at www.siemens-energy.com/press
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energyPress release
Press release
Siemens Energy AG
Communications
Head: Robin ZimmermannOtto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich
Germany
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 2 of 2Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers.
More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs
around 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €28.5 billion in fiscal year 2021.
www.siemens-energy.com .