Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 1 of 5 
 
Berlin, May 24, 2022 
Executive Board presents plans for strategic 
evolution – Siemens Energy aims for greater 
transparency in the capital market 
 Positive result: Gas and Power profitability up 35 percent after a year and a half of 
independence; cost-efficiency measures save more than EUR 350 million 
 Greater transparency: New corporate structure lays out clear responsibilities, ensures greater 
efficiency, brings business closer to customers, and provides greater transparency for the  
capital market  
 Shared market approach: Integration of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) is logical 
evolution for a leading energy technology company and offers customers a holistic approach  
in the transition toward greater sustainability 
 Attractive prospects for future: Global energy market promises good growth rates  
 
At its Capital Market Day in Berlin, Siemens Energy will be presenting analysts and investors with its 
strategic cornerstones for the coming years. The management’s goal is to build an integrated 
energy technology company with a clear focus on ESG which supports customers as they make their 
transition toward greater sustainability, while delivering reliable returns for investors. Siemens 
Energy will rely on three main pillars: low-emission or zero-emission power generation; transport 
and storage of electricity; and reducing the CO 2 footprint and energy consumption in industrial 
processes. A new aspect will be Siemens Energy’s structure: starting in fiscal 2023, the former 
Divisions will be repositioned as Business Areas, whose key financial figures will be reported 
quarterly. This will increase transparency for the capital market significantly. By integrating SGRE, 
Siemens Energy will strengthen its position, creating a holistic, go-to-market approach further 
enhancing customer focus. Finally, a new organizational structure will significantly reduce 
complexity, create flatter hierarchies, shorten decision-making processes, and strengthen individual 
employees’ sense of personal responsibility. 
 
 Press release 
Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 2 of 5 
 “As an integrated energy technology company, we have a broad, strong portfolio that covers the 
entire value chain. This unique selling proposition gives us a clear competitive advantage. Another 
crucial factor will be to make sure our customers perceive us as a unified whole and a reliable 
partner, despite the rising complexity of the energy market. Technology is important, but alone it is 
insufficient. More and more, it will be essential to be able to act quickly and to be close to the 
customer. It will be critical how we manage our supply chains and production, how we execute 
projects and how we successfully leverage our increasing amounts of data. We want to be faster, 
more flexible, and more customer-oriented,” said Siemens Energy CEO Christian Bruch. 
  
Gas and Power’s profitability and cost-efficiency rise substantially 
Since becoming an independent entity, Siemens Energy has already achieved important, 
intermediate goals for its own transformation. Gas and Power, one of the current two reporting 
segments, has improved its operating performance substantially over the past year and a half, 
increasing its profitability 35 percent. Additionally, efficiency enhancements, process optimization, 
and portfolio adjustments have saved more than EUR 350 million in costs. Non-conformance costs – 
a yardstick for good project organization and execution – have been cut more than 20 percent. And 
with liquidity of EUR 5.1 billion, together with access to credit lines for another EUR 5.5 billion, 
Siemens Energy has very sound financing. The company invests more than EUR 1 billion annually in 
research and development to reduce emissions from existing technology and to make sustainable 
technologies for the market. 
 
Greater transparency for capital market, less hierarchy in the organization 
As of the start of the new fiscal year in October 2022, Siemens Energy will be introducing a new 
organizational structure. The Gas and Power segment will be reorganized into three Business Areas 
Gas Services, Grid Technologies, and Transformation of Industry and accompanying financial figures 
will be released quarterly. The Transformation of Industry Business Area will comprise four 
autonomous Business Units that report separately. Overall, this will offer considerably more 
transparency than previously disclosed to the capital market. Other areas that are critical for the 
company’s success – such as procurement, logistics, and IT – will be pooled. 
 
In the future reporting structure, revenue and earnings viewed retrospectively for fiscal 2021 
(rounded, and on a pro-forma basis) would look as follows: Gas Services, with approximate 
revenues of EUR 9 billion and adjusted EBITA before special items of 7 percent will comprise all 
business operations relating to gas turbines and large steam turbines, including the associated 
servicing business. 
Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 3 of 5 
 Grid Technologies, covering the former Transmission business and all future operations relating to 
energy storage, would have had revenue of EUR 5.8 billion and an adjusted EBITA before special 
items of 6.5 percent. 
The Transformation of Industry Business Area, which mainly focuses on reducing energy 
consumption and CO 2 emissions in industrial processes, will include four business operations:  
1) Sustainable Energy Systems (including hydrogen, electrolyzers, Power-to-X, photovoltaics);  
2) Electrification, Automation, Digitalization (EAD, formerly under Industrial Applications);  
3) Industrial Steam Turbines & Generators (IST, including industrial steam turbines up to 250 MW 
and their servicing, as well as industrial generators); and 4) Compression (CP, turbo and 
reciprocating compressors and their servicing; formerly a part of Industrial Applications). As a single 
organizational unit, these business operations would have had revenue of EUR 3.9 billion  
in fiscal 2021. The adjusted EBITA margin before special items would have been minus 2.5 percent. 
This additional transparency is intended to provide the capital market with a way of assessing the 
development of these businesses better in the future.  
 
Hierarchies will be reduced substantially within Siemens Energy. The leaner structures are designed 
to significantly speed up decision-making processes. A total of approximately 30 percent of the 
previous management positions will be eliminated. Areas that have involved as many as eleven 
levels of hierarchy up until now will have no more than six. There are no layoffs planned as a result 
of the new organizational structure. The aim of these steps is to bring the business closer to the 
customer, to reinforce individual units’ own sense of responsibility, and to eliminate complex 
approval processes.  
 
Maria Ferraro, CFO of Siemens Energy: “Our new reporting structure will meet the expectations of 
the capital market for greater transparency in the Business Areas. The new corporate structure 
reduces internal reporting complexities, ensures greater efficiency, and results in our businesses 
being closely aligned to our markets and customers.”  
 
Integration of SGRE reinforces position as leading integrated energy technology company 
Another key next step in the transformation to a leading energy technology company with a clear 
focus on sustainability is the integration of SGRE, in which Siemens Energy has held 67 percent of 
the stock up to now. Siemens Energy recently announced it would acquire the remaining 33 percent 
that is still in free float. The aim is to delist SGRE and fully integrate it. The transaction is expected to 
close during the second half of the year 2022. That will allow SGRE to actively address the current 
challenges that several profit warnings have induced. On top of that, by successfully delisting SGRE, 
Siemens Energy will be able to simplify processes further and make the transition to a shared 
Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 4 of 5 
 corporate structure with flatter hierarchies. The estimated cost synergies of up to EUR 300 million 
per year within three years of full integration will result primarily from better project execution, 
consolidation of logistics, and a more transparent supply chain. There will also be joint research and 
development efforts. The shared market approach, which will provide broader customer access,  
a complete range of energy products and services for customers, and added value due to data-
based capabilities, promises revenue synergies of a mid-triple-digit million EUR amount by the end 
of the decade. 
 
The wind power market is one of the fields that currently has the most attractive growth potential. 
Globally installed wind power capacity (excl. China) is expected to increase by around 7 percent per 
year until the end of the decade, mainly due to new offshore wind turbines, which are expected to 
grow by around 28 percent per year over the same period (excl. China). Siemens Energy is also 
excellently positioned beyond renewables because the energy transition is taking place at different 
speeds around the world, and that requires different solutions. As an integrated energy technology 
company, Siemens Energy is positioned to meet all of its customers’ needs across the entire value 
chain. For instance, natural gas – considerably cleaner than coal – will become the backbone of 
power generation within the next 20 years. The focus here will be on expanding existing 
installations, and on the service business – both of which are core businesses of the Gas Services 
Business Area. When it comes to transporting the generated electricity, smart power grids and grid 
technology will be indispensable. This is where the Grid Technologies area is a market leader, with 
its high-voltage DC (HVDC) transmission technology and environmentally friendly portfolio of 
products free from sulfur hexafluoride (SF 6). Through its Transformation of Industry Business Area, 
Siemens Energy also covers the promising future business in all aspects of hydrogen and  
Power-to-X.  
 
The Capital Market Day will take place from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and can be followed via livestream on 
Siemens Energy’s website. 
 
Contacts for journalists 
Tim Proll-Gerwe 
Phone:  +49 (0)152 2283 5652 
E-mail:  tim.proll-gerwe@siemens-energy.com  
 
Ivonne Junghänel 
Phone:  +49 (0)172 1026 780 
E-mail:  ivonne.junghaenel@siemens-energy.com   
Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 5 of 5 
 This press release is available at www.siemens-energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy 
 
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €28.5 billion in fiscal year 2021. 
www.siemens-energy.com . 
 