Stories Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy stories Loading.. Featured stories July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition How to become a renewable energy powerhouse? By realizing multiple, diverse clean energy projects the North Sea has become a hotspot for green innovation and a blueprint for decarbonization in many other parts of the world. by
							By Niels Anner November 12, 2024 4 min read What will it take to decarbonize grid energy’s supply chain? With the signing of a new Letter of Intent, TenneT and Siemens Energy are marking a radical change in energy’s purchasing world with the collaborative decarbonization of the supply chain for grid infrastructure. The goal is to reduce emissions by 30 percent by 2030, starting with the use of recycled copper in power transformers. by
							Rolf de Vos November 30, 2022 12 min read Ireland's great grid stabilizer With Ireland set to phase out coal-fired power generation in favor of renewables, a radical new vision for one coal plant promises to bring stability to the grid. The first step? A synchronous condenser with the world’s largest flywheel. by
							Blas Ulibarri Loading.. Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025