- Convenience Translation - 
 
  
 
SPIN-O FF AND  TRANSFER  AGR EEME NT 
betwee n 
Siemens Aktien gesellschaft   
and 
Siemens Energ y AG  E
XCERPT
of notary deed no 1167 G/2020
of notary Dr. Tilman Götte, Munich 
dated 22 May 2020
– Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
1Spin-off  and Transfer Agreement
between
Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin and  Munich,
– hereinafter also  referred to as "Siemens AG" or the " Transferring Entity" –
as the transferring entity
and
Siemens Energy AG, Munich,
– hereinafter  also referred to as the " Receiving  Entity"  –
as the receiving entity
– hereinafter  referred to together as the "Parties"  or individually as a "Party"  –
22 May 2020
2Table of Contents
I. Preamble ................................................................................................................................. 4
II. Spin-off,  Spin-off Effective  Date, Spin-off  Statements of Financial Position  and Closing 
Statements of Financial Position .................................................................................. 7
§ 1 Spin-off ..................................................................................................................... 7
§ 2 Spin-off Effective Date  and Tax Transfer Effective Date ................................... 8
§ 3 Closing Statements of Financial Position and  Spin-off Statements of 
Financial Position .............................................................................................. 8
§ 4 Postponement of  the Effective Dates ..................................................................... 9
III. Spin-off  Assets and Modalities for the  Transfer ............................................................. 9
§ 5 Spin-off Assets ......................................................................................................... 9
§ 6 Taking Effect, Closing Date ................................................................................. 10
§ 7 Catch-all  Provisions .............................................................................................. 10
§ 8 Protection for Creditors and Internal Compensation ....................................... 11
§ 9 Warranties ............................................................................................................. 11
IV. Consideration and Corporate Actions; Special Rights and Benefits ........................... 12
§ 10 Issuance  of Shares,  Trustee and  Capital  Measures ......................................... 12
§ 11 Granting of Special Rights ................................................................................. 13
§ 12 Granting of Special Benefits ............................................................................... 14
V. Provisions under  Corporate Law and  Stock Exchange Law affecting Siemens Energy  
AG................................................................................................................................. 17
§ 13 Articles of Association  of Siemens Energy  AG,  Authorization pursuant to 
Section 71 (1)  no. 8 AktG and   Authorization  pursuant to Section 221 
AktG ................................................................................................................. 17
 Capital Increases  in Kind of  Siemens Energy AG .................................................. 18
§ 14 18
3§ 15 Admission  to Stock Exchange Trading ............................................................. 18
VI. Consequences  of the Spin-off  for the Employees and  their  Representative  Bodies ...19
§ 16 Consequences of the Spin-off  for the Employees' Individual Rights ............. 19
§ 17 Consequences of the Spin-off  for the Representative Bodies of the 
Employees under Works  Constitution Law; Shop Agreements and 
Collective Bargaining Agreements ................................................................ 23
§ 18 Consequences of the Spin-off  for  Corporate Co-Determination/the 
Supervisory Board ........................................................................................... 26
VII. Additional Agreements ................................................................................................... 28
§ 19 Termination of the  Controlling Influence ......................................................... 28
§ 20 Group Separation Agreement ............................................................................ 29
VIII. Miscellaneous ................................................................................................................. 29
§ 21 Costs and Transaction Taxes ............................................................................. 29
§ 22 Final Provisions ................................................................................................... 30
4I.
Preamble
0.1 Siemens AG with its registered  offices  in Berlin  and Munich  is registered with the register 
of companies (Handelsregister) at the district court (Amtsgericht) of Charlottenburg under 
registration number HRB  12300  B and with the register of companies at the district court  
of Munich  under registration  number HRB 6684. The capital  stock of Siemens AG at the 
time of conclusion of this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement amounts to 
EUR 2,550,000,000, divided into 850,000,000  shares of no par value (registered shares). 
Siemens AG holds 50,690,288 treasury shares  at the time of conclusion of this Spin-off 
and Transfer Agreement. Together with its current  direct and indirect  subsidiaries, Siemens 
AG forms a group of companies  (the "Siemens Group").
0.2 Siemens Energy AG with its registered  office in Munich  is registered with the register of 
companies at the district court  of Munich under registration number  HRB 252581. The 
capital stock of Siemens Energy AG at the time of conclusion of this Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement amounts to EUR 100,000, divided  into 100,000 shares of no par value 
(registered shares).  At the time of conclusion of this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement, the 
sole shareholder  of Siemens  Energy  AG is Siemens AG.
0.3 Siemens AG has decided to legally separate the worldwide operations of Gas and Power  
of the Siemens  Group to be legally  separated and the shares held by the Siemens Group  in 
the amount of approximately  67 % in Siemens Gamesa Renewable  Energy, S.A. ("SGRE ") 
(together, the "Siemens Energy Business") under Siemens  Energy  AG, the shares of which  
are to be listed on the Frankfurt  Stock Exchange. Going  forward, Siemens Energy AG is 
to be managed as an entity that is legally  and organizationally  independent of Siemens AG. 
In that context, Siemens AG intends to retain a (direct and indirect) minority interest in the 
future listed Siemens Energy AG as its non-controlling  anchor  shareholder initially with a 
total share in its capital stock of 45 %, of which 9,9 % of the capital  stock shall be 
transferred to Siemens Pension-Trust e.V. in connection with the Spin-off. With the 
strategic and operational development of Siemens Energy AG, Siemens AG intends to 
reduce its stake  in the amount  of 35,1 % significantly in a timeframe of twelve to eighteen 
months after the spin-off  taking effect.  The remaining shares  in Siemens Energy AG are to 
be transferred to the shareholders of Siemens AG by way of a spin-off in accordance  with 
the German  Transformation Act (Umwandlungsgesetz). Immediately  after the spin-off 
takes effect, the shares  in Siemens  Energy AG are to be admitted to trading on the Frankfurt 
Stock Exchange (the legal  separation of the Siemens Energy  Business under  Siemens 
Energy AG, the transfer of shares  to the shareholders of Siemens AG and the admission to 
stock exchange  trading,  altogether, are hereinafter referred to as the "Transaction").
50.4 In preparation  of the legal  separation,  the Siemens Energy Business has been and will be 
legally and organizationally consolidated  under  the umbrella  of Siemens Gas and Power 
GmbH & Co. KG with its registered office in Munich and registered with the register  of 
companies at the district court  of Munich under registration number  HRA 111200, to be 
renamed Siemens  Energy Global  GmbH & Co. KG ("Siemens Energy  KG"). The fixed 
capital (Festkapital) of Siemens Energy  KG amounts to EUR 174,908,333 at the time of 
conclusion of this Spin-off  and Transfer Agreement. A partnership interest 
(Kommanditanteil) representing a pro rata amount  of the fixed capital of EUR 153,892,732 
(approximately 87.98 % of the fixed capital) is held directly by Siemens AG. A partnership 
interest representing the remaining  pro rata amount  of the fixed  capital  of EUR 21,015,601 
(approximately 12.02 % of the fixed  capital) is held by Siemens Beteiligungen Inland 
GmbH with its registered office in Munich, registered  with the register of companies  at the 
district court  of Munich  under HRB 139644 ("SBI GmbH"), which  is a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Siemens AG. The sole personally  liable  partner (general partner) of Siemens 
Energy KG, which holds no interest  in its fixed capital, is Siemens Gas and Power 
Management GmbH, a German limited liability company (GmbH), with its registered 
office in Munich, registered with the register of companies at the district court of Munich  
under HRB 241345 ("General Partner  GmbH").  At the time of conclusion  of this Spin-
off and Transfer  Agreement, the share  capital of General Partner GmbH amounts to 
EUR 25,000, divided into 25,000 shares, each with a nominal value of EUR 1.00. At the 
time of conclusion of this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement,  approximately 87.98 % of this 
share capital (21,996 shares) is held by Siemens AG. The remaining approximately 12.02 
% of the share  capital (3,004 shares)  is held  by SBI GmbH.
0.5 The Transaction is to be  implemented  mainly by taking the following key steps:
0.5.1 Siemens AG will contribute  to Siemens Energy AG a partial partnership interest  
representing a pro rata amount  of the fixed  capital of Siemens Energy KG of 
EUR 57,693,148.85 (equivalent to approximately 32.98  % of the fixed capital) and its 
8,246 shares  in General  Partner GmbH bearing  the serial  numbers 13,751 through 21,996 
(equivalent to approximately  32.98 % of the share capital)  with economic effect as of the 
contribution effective date,  i.e. 1 April 2020, 0:00 hours (subject to a contractually agreed 
postponement of the contribution  effective date), in return for (i) the issuance of 
239,582,401 new shares  of no par value (registered shares) and (ii) a payment  by Siemens 
Energy AG to Siemens AG of a cash amount of EUR 175,746.41, plus any interest credited 
to bank accounts and group-internal settlement accounts  (Verrechnungskonten) of Siemens 
Energy AG between 1 April  2020 up to and including  day of the payment  or, as the case 
may be, less any interest  debited from such accounts during  this period.  In order to grant 
these shares to Siemens AG, Siemens Energy AG will increase its capital  stock  of 
6EUR 100,000 by EUR 239,582,401 to EUR 239,682,401  ("SAG  Capital Increase  in 
Kind").  
0.5.2 With economic effect as of 1 April 2020 (subject to a contractually agreed  postponement 
of the contribution effective date), SBI GmbH will contribute to Siemens Energy  AG the 
partnership interest held by it representing a pro rata amount  of the fixed capital  of Siemens 
Energy KG of EUR 21,015,601 (equivalent  to approximately 12.02 % of the fixed capital) 
and its 3,004 shares  in General Partner GmbH bearing  the serial numbers  21,997 through  
25,000 (equivalent to approximately  12.02 % of the share capital) in return for the issuance 
of 87,307,936 new shares of no par value  (registered  shares) in Siemens Energy AG. In 
order to grant  these  shares, Siemens Energy  AG, which  at this time is still a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Siemens AG, will increase  its capital  stock  by another  EUR 87,307,936 to 
EUR 326,990,337 ("SBI  Capital Increase in Kind "; the SBI Capital Increase  in Kind and 
the SAG Capital Increase in Kind together are hereinafter  referred to as the "Capital 
Increases in  Kind ").
0.5.3 The contributions in connection with the Capital Increases in Kind as set forth in nos. 0.5.1 
and 0.5.2 above  will be made in accordance with the contribution  agreement likewise 
notarized as of the date hereof and annexed to this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement as 
Annex 0.5.3. The Capital Increases in Kind are to be carried  out prior to the spin-off taking 
effect. After the Capital Increases in Kind are carried  out, the only assets that Siemens 
Energy AG will hold will be a partnership interest in Siemens Energy KG representing a 
pro rata amount of its fixed  capital of EUR 78,708,749.85  (equivalent to 45 % of Siemens 
Energy KG's  fixed capital) and 11,250 shares in General Partner GmbH  (equivalent to 
45 % of General  Partner  GmbH's share  capital).  A partnership interest representing  the 
remaining 55 % of the fixed capital of Siemens  Energy KG and the remaining  55 % of the 
shares in General  Partner  GmbH will initially be held unchanged by Siemens AG.
0.5.4 Siemens AG's partial  partnership interest representing a pro rata amount of the fixed 
capital of Siemens Energy  KG of EUR 96,199,583.15 remaining  with Siemens  AG after 
the Capital Increases in Kind described  in nos. 0.5.1 through  0.5.3 (equivalent to 55 % of 
Siemens Energy  KG's fixed capital)  ("Spin-off Partnership Interest") and the shares in 
General Partner GmbH bearing the serial numbers 1 through 13,750 to still remain with 
Siemens AG (equivalent  to 55 % of the share capital)  ("Spin-off General Partner's  
Shares") are to be transferred to Siemens Energy AG in accordance with this Spin-off and 
Transfer Agreement  so that Siemens Energy AG will be the sole limited partner of Siemens 
Energy KG and the sole shareholder  of General Partner GmbH upon the spin-off taking 
effect (Siemens Energy  AG together  with its direct  and indirect subsidiaries  existing after 
the spin-off are hereinafter referred to as the "Future Siemens Energy Group"; the 
7Siemens Group without the companies of the Future Siemens Energy  Group  is referred  to 
as the "Future  Siemens Group"). 
0.5.5 As consideration for the spin-off, the shareholders of Siemens AG are to receive from  
Siemens Energy AG in proportion to their current shareholdings a total of 399,654,856 
shares of no par value  (registered  shares)  in Siemens Energy AG in accordance with this 
Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement. In order to carry  out the spin-off,  Siemens Energy  AG 
will increase  its capital stock from then EUR  326,990,337 by EUR 399,654,856 to 
EUR 726,645,193 (the "Spin-off Capital Increase").  The shares  to be granted to the 
shareholders of Siemens AG in order  to carry out the spin-off  will correspond to 55 % of 
the future capital stock of Siemens Energy  AG existing  after the Spin-off Capital  Increase 
and the Capital Increases in Kind (nos. 0.5.1 through 0.5.3 above). The remaining 45 % of 
the future capital stock of Siemens Energy AG will be held by Siemens AG and its wholly-
owned subsidiary SBI GmbH upon the spin-off taking  effect.
0.5.6 Immediately after the spin-off takes effect,  all shares in Siemens Energy AG are to be listed 
for trading in the Regulated Market  of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange  and also in the sub-
segment of the Regulated Market  of the Frankfurt Stock exchange with additional post-
admission obligations (Prime Standard).
Now, therefore,  the Parties agree  as follows:
II.
Spin-off,  Spin-off  Effective Date, Spin-off  Statements of Financial  Position and Closing 
Statements  of Financial Position
§ 1
Spin-off
Siemens AG,  as the Transferring Entity, transfers by way of a spin-off  for absorption (Abspaltung 
zur Aufnahme) pursuant to Section 123 (2) no. 1 UmwG the portion of its assets specified in § 5.1 
of this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement  together  with all rights and duties (hereinafter, the "Spin-
off Assets ") in their entirety to Siemens Energy  AG as the Receiving Entity in exchange for the 
issuance of shares in Siemens  Energy AG to the shareholders of Siemens AG pursuant  to § 10 of 
this Spin-off  and Transfer Agreement (spin-off  for absorption preserving shareholding  
proportions). The items of the assets and liabilities  and other rights  and duties or legal  positions of 
Siemens AG  that are not to be allocated  to the Spin-off Assets under this Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement or that are expressly  excluded from  the transfer under this Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement will not be  transferred to Siemens Energy AG.
8§ 2
Spin-off Effective  Date  and Tax Transfer  Effective Date
2.1 The transfer of the Spin-off Assets will be effective as of 1 April  2020, 0:00 hours  in the 
relationship between Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG (the "Spin-off Effective  
Date").  Starting as of this point in time, the actions relating to the Spin-off Assets are 
deemed to have  been made for the account of Siemens Energy AG in the relationship 
between Siemens AG and Siemens  Energy  AG.
2.2 The tax transfer effective date for the spin-off is 31 March  2020, 24:00  hours (the "Tax 
Transfer Effective Date").
§ 3
Closing Statements of Financial Position and  Spin-off Statements of Financial Position
3.1 The closing  statements of financial position of the Transferring Entity under Sections 125 
sentence 1, 17 (2)  UmwG are the interim  statements of financial  position of Siemens AG 
as of 31 March  2020, 24:00  hours, prepared  in accordance with the provisions  on annual 
statements of financial  position and audits thereof, audited  by Ernst & Young GmbH  
Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Stuttgart, which  was appointed  auditor of the closing 
statements of financial position by resolution of Siemens AG's shareholders' meeting of 
5 February 2020, issued with an unqualified  audit  certificate and approved by the 
supervisory board  of Siemens AG on 8 May 2020  (the "Closing  Statements of Financial 
Position").
3.2 The items of the assets and liabilities to be allocated to the Spin-off Assets are recognized 
in the spin-off statements of financial position as of 1 April  2020, 0:00 hours,  attached to 
this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement  as Annex 3.2 (the "Spin-off Statements of 
Financial Position").  The Spin-off Statements of Financial  Position were derived from the 
Closing Statements of Financial Position  prepared as of 31 March 2020 (§ 3.1 of this Spin-
off and Transfer  Agreement), which  were  continued taking  into account  the contribution 
of a partial partnership interest  in the amount of EUR 57,693,148.85 in the fixed capital of 
Siemens Energy  KG and of the shares  in General Partner GmbH bearing the serial 
numbers 13,751 through 21,996  by Siemens AG into Siemens Energy AG as of 1 April 
2020, 0:00 hours, as described in no. 0.5 of  the Preamble. 
3.3 Siemens AG will reflect  the Spin-off Assets at book value in its Closing  Statements of 
Financial Position and at fair market value  in its tax Closing Statements  of Financial 
Position as of the Tax Transfer Effective  Date. Siemens  Energy  AG will reflect the Spin-
9off Assets  at book value in its commercial  statements of financial position.  Siemens Energy 
AG will include  the Spin-off Assets and in its tax statements of financial  position at the 
values contained  in the tax Closing  Statements of Financial Position  of Siemens AG as of 
the Tax Transfer Effective Date.
§ 4
Postponement of the Effective Dates
If the spin-off has not been registered  with the registers of companies  of the Transferring Entity at 
the district courts  of Charlottenburg  and Munich by the close of 31 October 2020, the Spin-off 
Effective Date is deemed  to be 1 October 2020, 0:00 hours, and the Tax Transfer  Effective  Date 
is deemed to be 30 September  2020, 24:00 hours, contrary to the above § 2 of this Spin-off and 
Transfer Agreement,  and the effective date of the Closing Statements of Financial  Position  of 
Siemens AG is deemed  to be 30 September 2020, 24:00 hours, contrary to the above § 3.1. In the 
event of any further delay of the registration  beyond  31 October of any subsequent year, the 
effective dates are  each postponed by one year in accordance with  the above  provision.
III.
Spin-off  Assets and  Modalities for the Transfer
§ 5
Spin-off  Assets
5.1 In the course of  the spin-off, Siemens  AG will transfer  to Siemens Energy AG
5.1.1 the Spin-off Partnership Interest along with all related rights  and duties, including the 
pertaining entitlement to all profits that have thus far not been withdrawn,  the balance on 
Siemens AG's  personal  account to be allocated  to the Spin-off Partnership Interest, and the 
pro rata amount in the jointly held reserve account (gesamthänderisch gebundenes 
Rücklagekonto) corresponding to the  pro rata  amount  of the fixed  capital; and  
5.1.2 the Spin-off  General Partner's Shares, including all related rights and duties, including the 
entitlement to  distribution of  all profits that have thus  far not been distributed.
5.2 Siemens Energy AG assumes the liability amount  of Siemens AG equivalent  to the pro 
rata amount of the fixed  capital represented  by the Spin-off Partnership Interest.
105.3 Existing  obligations  of Siemens  AG to make  contributions to Siemens Energy KG remain 
unaffected in its relationship  with Siemens Energy KG and will not be assumed by Siemens 
Energy AG in the  internal relationship either.
5.4 The Parties  will make  all declarations, issue all documents, and take all other  actions that 
may still be necessary  or appropriate in connection with the transfer  of the Spin-off Assets.
§ 6
Taking Effect, Closing  Date
6.1 The transfer  of the Spin-off Assets occurs with in rem effect (dinglich) upon the spin-off  
taking effect through its registration  with the registers of companies  of Siemens AG at the 
district courts of Charlottenburg  and Munich, with the later registration  being 
determinative (the  "Closing  Date "). 
6.2 Siemens AG undertakes to ensure  that no shareholder resolution  will be adopted on or 
before the Closing  Date  under  which the fixed  capital of Siemens Energy KG existing  at 
the time of conclusion  of this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement or the share capital  of 
General Partner GmbH is changed. Siemens AG also undertakes  to ensure that no 
withdrawals from  Siemens  Energy KG or distributions of profits  of General Partner GmbH  
are made on or before  the Closing Date. Siemens  AG will ensure  that the Spin-off Assets 
are managed  and disposed of only in the ordinary course  of business  and with the diligence 
of a prudent  businessman and in compliance with the requirements of this Spin-off and 
Transfer Agreement  during  the period  between  the conclusion  of this Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement and the  Closing Date.  
§ 7
Catch-all  Provisions
7.1 If and to the extent that the Spin-off Assets do not already pass to Siemens Energy  AG by 
force of law upon  the registration  of the spin-off, Siemens AG will transfer  those  assets to 
Siemens Energy AG. In exchange, Siemens  Energy AG is obliged  to consent to the transfer.  
The Parties will treat each other in the internal relationship as if the transfer had also 
occurred in the  external relationship  as of the Spin-off  Effective Date.
7.2 In connection with a transfer under  § 7.1 of this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement, the 
Parties will initiate  all necessary or appropriate measures and legal acts and cooperate  in 
them in order  to transfer  the Spin-off Assets.
11§ 8
Protection for  Creditors  and Internal  Compensation
To the extent  no other allocation of burdens and liabilities under  or in connection with the Spin-
off Assets  results under  this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement, the following provisions apply:
8.1 If and to the extent that claims  are asserted against Siemens AG based  on the provisions in 
Section 133 UmwG or other  provisions on the protection of creditors for liabilities, 
obligations or contingent  liabilities that are being transferred to Siemens Energy AG in 
accordance with the provisions of this Spin-off  and Transfer  Agreement,  Siemens Energy 
AG must  indemnify Siemens AG from  the relevant  liability or obligation  on first demand.  
This also applies  in the event that such creditors assert  claims against Siemens AG for the 
provision of security.
8.2 If and to the extent that claims are asserted against Siemens Energy  AG on the basis of the 
provisions in Section 133 UmwG or other provisions by creditors  for Siemens AG’s  
liabilities, obligations or relationships  involving liability  that are not being transferred to 
Siemens Energy  AG in accordance with this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement, 
Siemens AG must indemnify  Siemens Energy AG against  the relevant liability or 
obligation on first demand. This also applies in the event  that such creditors  assert claims  
against Siemens Energy  AG for the  provision of security.
8.3 If and to the extent that the personal liability of Siemens AG is triggered for liabilities of 
Siemens Energy  KG because the liable contribution made by Siemens AG to Siemens 
Energy KG is deemed  to be paid back  to Siemens  AG, or one of the other  measures  
specified in Section 172  (4) sentence 2 of the German Commercial Code 
(Handelsgesetzbuch, "HGB ") has been  taken, after the Closing  Date without the liable  
contribution having been  returned  in fact to Siemens AG or one of its affiliated companies, 
Siemens Energy  AG must indemnify Siemens  AG against  the relevant liability or 
obligation on first demand. This applies  in particular  in the event that the notice  of 
succession (Rechtsnachfolgevermerk) of Siemens  Energy AG is not registered,  or is not 
registered in time, with the  register  of companies.
§ 9
Warranties
9.1 Siemens AG warrants as of the Closing  Date  that it is the holder of the Spin-off  Partnership 
Interest and of the Spin-off  General Partner's Shares and that Siemens AG can freely 
dispose of the Spin-off Partnership Interest and the Spin-off General Partner's  Shares and 
12that they are not encumbered with rights of third  parties. Aside from this, no quality of the 
Spin-off Assets, especially specific features or a value of the business  of Siemens Energy 
KG, are agreed.
9.2 To the extent  legally permissible,  all rights and warranties relating to the quality of the 
Spin-off Assets that might exist in addition to those  in § 9.1 of this Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement under  statutory  provisions or otherwise  are excluded.  The provision in this § 9.2 
of this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement  applies  to all rights and warranties, regardless of 
the legal nature  (contractual or pre-contractual rights, rights under tort or other rights),  and 
especially also to those rights that could result in the cancelation or unwinding of this Spin-
off and Transfer  Agreement  or any  similar legal  effect.
IV.
Consideration and  Corporate Actions; Special Rights and  Benefits
§ 10
Issuance of Shares, Trustee and Capital Measures
10.1 As consideration for the transfer of the Spin-off  Assets to Siemens Energy AG, the 
shareholders of Siemens AG  will receive  one (1) share  of no par value (a registered share) 
in Siemens Energy AG for every  two (2) shares  of no par value  (registered shares) in 
Siemens AG at no charge  in accordance with their present participation (preserving the 
proportionate shareholdings). Altogether,  399,654,856  shares of no par value (registered 
shares) in Siemens Energy AG will be issued  to the shareholders of Siemens AG. In this 
context, it was taken  into consideration that, pursuant to Section 131 (1) no. 3 sentence 1 
UmwG, the shares held by Siemens AG as treasury shares are not entitled to allocation. 
Siemens AG will make  sure that the number  of the total issued shares in Siemens AG minus 
the treasury  shares which are not entitled  to allocation  under Section 131 (1) no. 3 sentence 
1 UmwG will be exactly 799,309,712 on the Closing Date.  The shares in Siemens Energy 
AG to be granted pursuant  to § 10.1 of this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement are the new 
shares to be created by means  of the capital increase pursuant  to § 10.3 of this Spin-off  and 
Transfer Agreement.
10.2 The shares to be granted by Siemens Energy  AG are entitled  to participate in profits  for the 
fiscal years starting on 1 October 2019. If the Spin-off Effective Date  is postponed  pursuant  
to § 4 of this Spin-off  and Transfer Agreement to 1 October 2020, the date as of which the 
shares to be granted will be entitled  to participate in profits  will be postponed  accordingly 
to 1 October 2020. If the Spin-off  Effective  Date is postponed  further  pursuant  to § 4 of 
13this Spin-off  and Transfer Agreement,  the date as of which the shares  to be granted will be 
entitled to participate in profits will be postponed accordingly by one year.
10.3 In order to carry out the spin-off, Siemens Energy AG will increase its capital  stock by 
EUR 399,654,856 to EUR 726,645,193 by issuing  399,654,856 shares of no par value 
(registered shares)  in Siemens Energy AG. A pro rata amount of the capital stock of 
EUR 1.00 is  attributable to each new  share.  No additional premium (agio) is owed.
10.4 The contribution in kind will be rendered by means of the transfer  of the Spin-off Assets. 
To the extent  that the value  at which the contribution  in kind rendered by Siemens AG is 
recognized (for accounting purposes) by Siemens Energy AG, i.e. the book value under  
commercial law of the Spin-off Assets as of the Spin-off Effective  Date,  exceeds the 
amount of the increase  in the capital stock specified  in § 10.3 of this Spin-off and Transfer  
Agreement, this amount will be allocated to the capital reserve of Siemens Energy AG in 
accordance with Section 272 (2)  no. 1 HGB.
10.5 Siemens AG appoints  Deutsche Bank AG, Frankfurt am Main,  as the trustee for receiving 
the shares in Siemens Energy  AG to be  issued and  for disbursing them to the shareholders 
of Siemens  AG. Possession  of the shares to be issued will be granted to the trustee prior  to 
the registration  of the spin-off  and the trustee  will be instructed to provide the shareholders  
of Siemens  AG with the shares  after registration  of the spin-off with the registers  of 
companies of  Siemens AG.
§ 11
Granting of Special Rights
11.1 Siemens AG and its group companies  have made, or will make upon or before the spin-off 
taking effect, various  commitments  to provide shares  of no par value (registered shares)  in 
Siemens AG to members  of the managing board and employees of Siemens AG, as well as 
to members  of the corporate  bodies  and employees of Siemens Group,  including members 
of the corporate bodies and employees of the Future Siemens Energy Group  (together, for 
purposes of this § 11 of this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement,  the "Beneficiaries "), in the 
context of stock-based compensation programs  or, as the case may be, employee  
participation programs; these  commitments are listed in Annex 11.1 (together, the "Stock 
Entitlements").
11.2 The Stock Entitlements  existing as of the Closing Date  will be adjusted or compensated for 
with effect as of  the Closing Date  as follows:
1411.2.1 The rights under Stock Entitlements granted to Beneficiaries  who continue to be employed 
in the Future Siemens Group after the spin-off takes effect or who are otherwise not 
covered by § 11.2.2 of this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement  will be adjusted according to 
the provisions as described in Annex 11.2.1.
11.2.2 Compensation will be provided  for the rights under Stock Entitlements  granted to 
Beneficiaries of the Future Siemens Energy  Group who leave the Siemens Group  upon the 
spin-off taking effect in accordance with the provisions  as described  in Annex 11.2.2, 
unless otherwise  described  in § 12.4 of this Spin-off and  Transfer Agreement .
11.2.3 To the extent that any Party bears joint and several liability under applicable law for the 
fulfillment of obligations of the other Party under Stock  Entitlements,  § 8 of this Spin-off 
and Transfer Agreement applies directly or, where applicable, accordingly.
11.3 As of the time this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement is executed, Siemens AG has issued 
neither convertible  bonds nor bonds with warrants. 
11.4 Aside from  this, no rights are granted  for individual shareholders or holders of special 
rights within the meaning of Section 126 (1)  no. 7 UmwG  and no measures in the sense of 
this provision  are intended for such persons  either.
§ 12
Granting of Special Benefits
12.1 The Parties  intend  to take out market-standard insurance for the risks typically associated 
with an admission to stock exchange  trading in connection  with the listing of the shares  of 
Siemens Energy  AG. The insurance coverage is also to cover the members of the managing 
boards and the supervisory boards of Siemens AG and of Siemens Energy AG. The Parties 
will agree on the personal  and factual scope of the insurance coverage, the amount of the 
coverage, the insurance premium and  the internal allocation thereof. 
12.2 After the spin-off takes effect,  the current  chairman of the managing  board of Siemens AG, 
Joe Kaeser, and the member of the managing board Prof. Dr. Ralf P. Thomas shall assume 
positions in the supervisory  board  of Siemens Energy AG; namely, Joe Kaeser is to be 
proposed as chairman  of the supervisory  board of Siemens Energy AG and Prof. Dr. Ralf 
P. Thomas as chairman of the audit  committee.  Pursuant to the future articles of association  
of Siemens Energy  AG (pursuant  to § V.13.1 of this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement and 
annex 13.1), the members of the supervisory board receive – in addition to any committee 
remuneration – a fixed  annual remuneration  of EUR 120,000  per member, which  increases 
15by EUR 120,000 for the chairman of the supervisory board. The chairman of the audit 
committee additionally receives EUR 120,000. In its meeting on 8 May 2020, the 
supervisory board of Siemens  AG decided that the remuneration of Joe Kaeser and of Prof. 
Dr. Ralf P. Thomas as supervisory board member  of Siemens Energy AG is not to be 
deducted from their remuneration as members  of the managing board  of Siemens  AG.
12.3 Prior to the spin-off, the members  of Siemens Energy AG's managing board were promised 
a spin-off incentive by General Partner  GmbH. Accordingly,  depending  on the target 
achievement, amounts ranging from 100 % to 200 % of a target  amount individually 
determined for each member of the managing board  can be paid. The target amount  is 
EUR 1,500,000 for Dr.-Ing.  Christian Bruch and EUR 750,000 each for Dr.-Ing. Jochen  
Eickholt, Maria  Ferraro  and Tim Oliver Holt. The target amount  will be paid out if certain 
target values for the effects  of the spin-off  or the market value are achieved upon the spin-
off taking effect  and within  the first 120 days after the spin-off taking effect, based  on the 
average volume-weighted price of the share of Siemens Energy AG. If these target values  
are not achieved,  no spin-off incentive will be granted. If the target values are exceeded, a 
maximum of up to 200 % of the target amount will be paid out. Values between 100 % and 
200 % are determined by linear interpolation. The members  of the managing board are 
obliged to reinvest  the net profits from the spin-off  incentive  in shares of Siemens Energy 
AG. It is intended  that the obligation to pay managing board remuneration, including the 
spin-off incentive, will be transferred to Siemens Energy AG after the spin-off takes effect. 
12.4 General Partner GmbH has promised to the members of the management of the General 
Partner GmbH due to their activities  as members of the managing board of Siemens 
Energy AG commitments to receive  shares without own additional payment after a vesting 
period (stock awards) in addition  to their other remuneration. Thereby, a part of the 
remuneration shall be structured for the long term in that the achievement of financial and 
non-financial targets  over a four-year period  is measured (for details regarding  stock-based  
compensation and employee participation option plans for other members of executive 
bodies and employees  of the Future Siemens  Energy Group,  see § 16.6 of this Spin-off and 
Transfer Agreement below).  A specific target  amount  is set for each member of the 
managing board.  This target amount is EUR 1,920,000 for Dr.-Ing. Christian  Bruch and 
EUR 960,000 for Dr.-Ing.  Jochen Eickholt,  Maria Ferraro and Tim Oliver Holt,  
respectively. This target  amount is multiplied in each case by a provisional  maximum  target  
achievement rate of 200 %.  For this amount,  each member of the managing board is yearly, 
for the first time in the fiscal year 2021, granted forfeitable stock awards, the specific 
number of which is calculated on the basis of the share price on the grant date, less 
discounted estimated dividends during  the vesting  period. After  a vesting period of four 
years, each managing board  member  will be granted one share in Siemens Energy AG for 
16each stock award, whereby  the number of stock  awards finally granted  depends  on the 
actual achievement of the following  targets  during the assessment period:  total shareholder 
return of the share  in Siemens Energy  AG compared to competitors, i.e. change in the stock 
exchange price of the shares in Siemens Energy  AG plus dividends paid in comparison to 
the change in value of comparative indices  (40 %), earnings per share measured against 
previously set targets (40 %) and achievement  of sustainability targets according to a 
specific Environmental, Social & Governance  criteria (20 %). The degree of target 
achievement of the individual components may range from 0 % to 200 %.  The overall 
target achievement corresponds to the weighted  average target achievement  of the 
individual components. If the actual degree  of overall  target achievement is less than 200 % 
after the four-year  vesting period, a corresponding portion of the stock  awards lapses 
without replacement and a smaller number  of shares is allocated. The shares in Siemens 
Energy AG allocated at the end of the vesting period are limited to 250 % of the target 
amount. Any excess stock awards will lapse without replacement. If commitments to 
receive shares in Siemens AG without an additional payment after the expiration of a 
vesting period (stock  awards) have  been or will be made to the members of the managing 
board of Siemens Energy AG for the fiscal year in which  the spin-off takes effect, these 
commitments will expire without replacement upon the spin-off taking effect. If 
commitments to receive  shares in Siemens Energy AG without an additional payment after 
the expiration of a vesting period  (stock awards) have  been or will be made to the members 
of the managing board of Siemens Energy  AG for a fiscal year in which the spin-off will 
not yet take effect,  such commitments will expire  at the end of the respective fiscal year 
without replacement. Both the bonus and the stock awards  shall be subject to penalty  
(malus) and clawback provisions that allow  variable remuneration  which  can be reduced 
or reclaimed under  certain conditions, e.g. in the event of a determined  compliance 
violation. It is intended that the obligation to pay managing board  remuneration, including 
the commitment to grant stock awards,  will be transferred from the General Partner GmbH  
to Siemens Energy AG after the spin-off takes  effect.
12.5 For the members of the managing  board of Siemens AG, the stock-based compensation 
programs (as described in § 11 of this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement) will be adjusted. 
The present spin-off may therefore impact these  programs, as they are based  on, inter alia, 
the development of the stock exchange  price of Siemens AG and the stock  exchange price  
of Siemens AG might develop differently as a  result  of the spin-off. 
12.6 Beyond that, no special benefits  within the meaning of Section  126 (1) no. 8 UmwG are 
being granted to members  of the managing boards and supervisory boards of the companies 
involved in the spin-off  or to an auditor  of the financial  statements or a spin-off auditor. 
The provisions of § 11 of this Spin-off  and Transfer  Agreement remain unaffected.
17V.
Provisions  under Corporate Law and Stock  Exchange Law  affecting Siemens Energy  AG
§ 13
Articles of Association of Siemens Energy  AG, 
Authorization pursuant  to Section 71 (1)  no. 8 AktG and 
Authorization pursuant to Section  221 AktG
13.1 Siemens AG undertakes to ensure  that the articles of association of Siemens Energy  AG 
are amended prior  to the spin-off taking effect  so that they are worded as in the version  
attached in Annex  13.1 after the spin-off takes effect and after completion  of the status  
proceedings (cf. § 18.1 of this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement). The Parties assume  that, 
after the spin-off  takes effect, the supervisory board of Siemens Energy AG will consist  of 
ten members representing  the shareholders and ten members  representing  the employees 
in accordance  with Section  7 (1) sentence 1 no. 3 MitbestG. If a different composition 
results pursuant to Section 7 (1) MitbestG after completion of the status  proceedings, this 
must be taken  into account.
13.2 Siemens AG undertakes to ensure that the shareholders' meeting of Siemens  Energy  AG 
adopts prior to the spin-off taking effect  the authorization  attached as Annex 13.2 for the 
acquisition and use of  treasury shares pursuant to  Section 71 (1) no. 8 AktG.
13.3 Siemens AG undertakes to ensure that the shareholders' meeting of Siemens  Energy  AG 
adopts prior to the spin-off taking effect  the authorization  attached as Annex 13.3 for the 
issuance of  convertible bonds or bonds with warrants pursuant to  Section 221 AktG.
§ 14
Capital Increases  in Kind of  Siemens  Energy AG
14.1 Siemens AG and Siemens  Energy AG will ensure that, to the extent legally  permissible, all 
declarations are made, all documents are issued and all other actions  are taken that are 
necessary or useful in order  to ensure  that the Capital Increases in Kind described  in no. 0.5 
of this Spin-off  and Transfer Agreement are implemented  before  the spin-off described in 
§ 1 of this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement is effected by means of its registration in the 
registers of companies of Siemens AG  at the district court of Munich and at the district 
court of Charlottenburg.
14.2 Siemens AG undertakes to ensure  that no further  capital  increases or any capital decreases 
of Siemens  Energy AG are implemented on or before the Closing Date except for the 
18Capital Increases in Kind and the Spin-off  Capital Increase described in no. 0.5 of this 
Spin-off and Transfer Agreement.
§ 15
Admission to Stock Exchange  Trading
The Parties undertake to ensure that all declarations will be made,  all documents will be 
issued and all other actions (including the preparation and publication  of a securities  
prospectus to be approved by the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority 
(Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht) and further  marketing  materials) will be 
taken that are still necessary or useful  in order to procure that all shares in Siemens Energy 
AG (including the existing shares, the shares  created in the course of the Capital  Increases  
in Kind and the shares created in the course of the Spin-off Capital Increase)  are admitted 
to trading on the Regulated Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and also in the sub-
segment of the Regulated Market of the Frankfurt  Stock Exchange with additional post-
admission obligations (Prime Standard)  immediately  after the spin-off  taking  effect.
VI.
Consequences of the Spin-off for the Employees and their Representative Bodies
§ 16
Consequences of the Spin-off for the Employees'  Individual Rights
16.1 The employment relationships of the employees of Siemens AG will not be affected by the 
spin-off.
16.2 Siemens Energy AG is to date not acting operationally and is not employing any employees  
of its own. Therefore, the spin-off  has no consequences  for the employees of Siemens 
Energy AG.
16.3 The spin-off  also has – unless presented below – no consequences for the individual rights  
of the employees  of the Future Siemens Energy  Group, which  will be created, when the 
spin-off takes  effect  with Siemens Energy  AG as the new parent  company. The employees  
remain with their respective companies at which they are employed; their employment 
relationships will not be affected by the spin-off. This also applies to participation in the 
company pension plan and the pension commitments  made by the relevant companies with 
which the employees  are employed. 
1916.4 To the extent that employees participate in the stock-based compensation programs or, as 
the case may be, employee participation  programs existing  in the Siemens Group, the 
corresponding Stock Entitlements  will be adjusted  or compensation will be provided  for 
them as a consequence of the  spin-off as presented in  detail below. 
16.4.1 In the case of employees who will be employees of the Future  Siemens Group after the 
spin-off takes  effect,  the adjustment will be made – except for the Beneficiaries  under  the 
Siemens Group UK Share Incentive Plan ("UK  Plan ") – such that, upon the relevant Stock 
Entitlements falling due, each of these employees receives a cash payment  for the notional 
number of shares  in Siemens Energy  AG derived by taking  the number  of shares in Siemens 
AG due from the allotment  ratio of 2:1 as a basis, in addition  to the number  of shares in 
Siemens AG for which there is an entitlement on the due date (even  if cash compensation 
is provided for such an entitlement after discretionary  decisions or in accordance with the 
applicable rules). In the case of the Beneficiaries under  the UK Plan, an adjustment  going 
beyond the provisions  set forth in the UK Plan is not necessary because the Beneficiaries  –
 like all other  Siemens shareholders  as well – will receive shares in Siemens Energy AG 
for the shares  held by the trustee.  With regard  to further details  and special cases, reference 
is made to § 11 of this Spin-off and  Transfer  Agreement and  the corresponding annexes. 
16.4.2 Employees  of the Future Siemens Energy Group  who leave the Siemens Group  upon the 
spin-off taking effect  – except for the Beneficiaries  under the UK Plan – will receive cash 
compensation or a cash payment  for their entitlements  to shares in Siemens AG pursuant 
to the terms and conditions of the relevant stock-based compensation program  or, as the 
case may be, employee  participation program  after the spin-off takes effect. With regard to 
further details  and special cases,  reference  is made to § 11 of this Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement and the corresponding annexes. Under the provisions of the trustee and 
custodial agreement entered into with the relevant custodian bank  commissioned by the 
Siemens Group, these employees are entitled  within a certain period of time after the end 
of the Closing Date  to sell or transfer to a private  account or a new securities account those  
shares in Siemens AG that they have acquired  for purposes of stock-based compensation 
programs or, as the case may be, employee  participation programs  and that are held in safe 
custody by the custodian bank  commissioned  by the relevant Siemens group company. If 
this is not done  within a reasonable time period, the shares in Siemens AG may be sold by 
the custodian bank for the account of the employee.  The Beneficiaries under the UK Plan 
will receive  no cash compensation;  instead, all of the shares held by the trustee  for the 
Beneficiaries – without any reduction on a pro rata temporis basis – are to be transferred 
to the Beneficiaries or sold for their  account.  
2016.5 To have  the members of the managing  board and other executives  and employees of the 
Future Siemens Energy  Group participate  in the long-term and sustainable success of the 
business, and to carry on the ownership culture  as lived  at Siemens Group,,  stock-based 
compensation programs and employee participation programs shall be implemented  in the 
Future Siemens Energy Group.
16.6 In particular,  the introduction of a share matching program, the granting  of stock  awards 
and commitments to grant jubilee  shares are planned and commitments  to a one-time spin-
off incentive have  been  granted or are planned.
Under the share matching program, members  of executive bodies and employees of the 
Future Siemens Energy Group, with the exception of members of the managing board  of 
the Siemens  Energy AG, may invest part of their income in shares in Siemens Energy  AG, 
whereby they will receive – to the extent  that they are employed  as of certain predetermined 
effective dates by Siemens Energy AG or any other  company of the Future  Siemens Energy  
Group with registered office in Germany participating in the programs  – in respect of an 
investment of EUR 100 for every  acquired  share in Siemens Energy AG, additionally two 
further shares (matching  shares) and, in the case of a further  investment  of EUR 160 for 
every acquired share  in Siemens Energy AG, additionally one further matching share;  the 
acquired and the additional matching shares  are not subject to any holding or vesting  
period. In respect of any investment beyond that and in respect of members of corporate  
bodies and employees who are employed on the relevant effective dates by companies of 
the Future  Siemens Energy Group with registered office abroad participating in the 
programs, they will receive additionally  one further  matching share  for every three shares 
in Siemens  Energy AG acquired; in this regard, both the acquired  and the additional  
matching shares are subject to a vesting period  of one year. 
Certain senior executives of Siemens Energy  AG – as well as the members of the managing 
board of Siemens Energy AG (see in this regard  § 12.4 of this Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement above) – are to receive  a part of their remuneration as long-term stock-based 
compensation (stock awards) that will be subject  to a four-year  vesting period. After 
expiration of the vesting period, the senior  executives will receive for their stock awards 
shares in Siemens Energy AG, the number of which is to be determined based on the 
development of the company on the capital  market relative to competitors, the financial 
development of Siemens  Energy  AG and the performance  of Siemens Energy  AG 
regarding environmental,  social and governance criteria.
16.7 It is also planned to allocate stock awards as remuneration  components for the further 
members of senior management  and for other  selected members of executive  bodies  and 
21employees or to make special allocations  for special  achievements or projects that can be 
granted to all members of executive  bodies and employees of the Future Siemens Energy 
Group, with the exception of the members of Siemens Energy  AG's managing board, 
several times throughout a fiscal  year. These stock awards are fulfilled one quarter each 
after the first year, the second year, the third year and the fourth year,  respectively. 
Fulfillment does not depend on the achievement of certain targets. 
For members of executive bodies and employees who will be employed  by any company 
within the Siemens  Energy Group with its registered office in Germany,  a jubilee  share 
program is to be launched under  which  eligible  employees will receive  jubilee shares at 
certain service anniversaries. The service periods in the Siemens Group  will be taken into 
account for the  purposes  of this  program.
Subject to the successful and timely spin-off  and the initial stock  exchange listing,  certain 
members of executive bodies and employees  of the Future Siemens Energy Group who 
have materially contributed to the successful  spin-off received a one-time spin-off  
incentive, which – unlike  the spin-off incentive for the members  of the managing board of 
Siemens Energy AG – is structured as follows (as regards the organization  of the spin-off 
incentive for the members of the managing board of Siemens Energy AG, see § 12.3 of this 
Spin-off and Transfer Agreement). The spin-off incentive consists of two elements; a short-
term cash component (bonus), which will be paid after the spin-off has taken  effect and 
which corresponds to 25 % of the target  amount,  and a long-term  stock-based component 
corresponding to 75 % of the target amount, which will be due after a vesting period of 
three years after the spin-off has taken  effect.  The target amount corresponds to a certain 
percentage of the basic remuneration  of the beneficiary. The long-term stock-based 
component depends – in the positive as well as in the negative – on the development of the 
share price of the share in Siemens  Energy AG in the first three years  after the initial listing  
and is in general fulfilled in form  of shares in Siemens Energy AG. If the share price 
doubles during this period, it can lead to a maximum total amount of 4.75 times the target 
amount from  the spin-off incentive. In general, the prerequisite is that the respective 
Beneficiary is employed by the Future  Siemens Energy Group at the time of performance.  
In relation to all Beneficiaries, this can presumably lead to a total inflow of a maximum  of 
approximately EUR 100 million.  
In addition, the Future Siemens Energy  Group plans to grant commitments to other  
members of corporate bodies and employees  of the Future Siemens Energy Group to 
receive shares as part of a one-time spin-off  incentive on the occasion of the listing. The 
target amount  for this spin-off incentive  equals  3 % of the gross annual  income  of the 
respective Beneficiary  with 100 % target achievement. The number of shares to be granted 
22is dependent on the development of the share  price of the Siemens Energy  share in the three 
years following the IPO. The maximum value of Siemens Energy shares granted is six 
times the target amount  if the share  price doubles. In general, the prerequisite  is that the 
respective Beneficiary is employed by the Future  Siemens Energy Group  at the time of 
performance. In relation to all Beneficiaries,  this can presumably lead to a total inflow of 
a maximum of approximately EUR 680 million.
16.8 In connection  with the preparation  of the Transaction, service agreements have  been 
entered into between companies  of the Future Siemens Group  and of the Future Siemens 
Energy Group under  which employees of the Future Siemens Group  will provide services 
after the spin-off takes  effect  for a certain, usually one-year, transitional period. Going 
forward, these  services will be performed by employees of the companies of the Future  
Siemens Energy  Group. It is therefore currently being considered that the relevant 
employees of the Future Siemens Group will be transferred to the Future  Siemens Energy  
Group by way of a transfer of business (Betriebsübergang) or on an individual  contractual 
basis. 
16.9 The spin-off will not result in personnel-related changes. However,  the business  operations, 
including, but not limited to, the organization, the portfolio and the positioning of the 
Future Siemens  Energy Group  will be monitored  on an ongoing  basis. In the event that 
adjustments are to be made  to German establishments  based on the relevant business  plan 
approved from time to time and on the further development of the business, the 
organizational and/or  personnel-related changes as well as the consequences for the 
employees will be coordinated with the competent co-determination bodies in good time 
and negotiations pursuant  to Sections 111 et seqq. BetrVG will be  started in  due course.
16.10 Apart  from the consequences described in § 16 and § 18 of this Spin-off and Transfer  
Agreement, no further  consequences for the employees'  individual rights  will arise  from 
the spin-off and  no further  measures are planned in this  respect either.
§ 17
Consequences of the Spin-off  for the Representative Bodies of the Employees  under  Works  
Constitution  Law ; Shop  Agreements  and Collective Bargaining  Agreements
17.1 Works  Councils,  Youth and Trainee Bodies  and Handicapped Representative Bodies
17.1.1 The establishments of Siemens AG and the further establishments of the Future  Siemens 
Group are not affected by the spin-off.  The existence, composition and terms of office of 
the existing works councils  and general works councils,  the existing  youth and trainee 
23representative bodies and the general  youth and trainee representative bodies as well as of 
the handicapped representative  bodies and the general handicapped representative bodies 
remain unaffected.
17.1.2 The group works council, the group handicapped representative body and the group youth  
and trainee representative body in the Siemens Group  will also continue  to exist after the 
spin-off takes effect. However, Siemens Energy AG and the other  companies  of the Future 
Siemens Energy  Group will leave the Siemens Group when  the spin-off takes effect, and 
Siemens Energy  AG will form  its own group together with its dependent  companies. This 
will lead to personnel changes  in the composition of the group works council  and the group 
youth and trainee representative body at Siemens AG. Accordingly,  those members of the 
group works council and the group youth and trainee representative  body who are 
employees of the Future Siemens  Energy Group will leave  those  bodies  when the spin-off 
takes effect. This currently concerns five members  of the group works council and 
five members  of the group youth and trainee representative  body. The vacant  positions  will 
be filled  with employees  of the Future Siemens Group  in accordance  with the applicable  
statutory provisions.
17.1.3 The European works council  in the Siemens Group (Siemens Europe  Committee) existing 
under the agreement in the version dated 24 March 2020 will also continue to exist after 
the spin-off takes  effect. As a result of the departure  of the establishments of the Future  
Siemens Energy  Group from the Siemens Group when the spin-off takes effect,  however, 
there will also be personnel  changes  in the composition of that body. Accordingly, those  
members of the Siemens Europe  Committee who are employees of the Future  Siemens  
Energy Group will leave  that body when the spin-off takes  effect.  This currently concerns 
seven members  of the Siemens Europe  Committee, who will be replaced by substitute 
members of the Future Siemens Group  in accordance with the agreement  in the version 
dated 24 March  2020. 
17.1.4 Since Siemens Energy AG is to date not acting  operationally and is not employing any 
employees of its own, it has neither a works  council  nor a youth  and trainee representative  
body nor a handicapped representative body.  The spin-off will not directly  change this 
situation. After  the spin-off takes effect, however, Siemens Energy  AG will be the parent 
company of the Future Siemens Energy  Group. Thus, the prerequisites for establishing a 
group works council  will basically exist at Siemens Energy AG pursuant  to 
Section 54 BetrVG. If such a group works council is established, the prerequisites for 
establishing a group handicapped  representative body exist pursuant to Section 180 (2) of 
the German Code of Social Law Ninth Book (Sozialgesetzbuch  Neuntes Buch). 
Furthermore, the prerequisites for establishing a group youth and trainee representative  
24body will in principle also exist after the spin-off takes  effect  in accordance with 
Section 73a BetrVG. 
17.1.5 In the event that a group works council  is established, group shop  agreements existing in 
the Siemens Group at the time of the spin-off  will continue to apply as group shop 
agreements of the Future Siemens Energy Group or otherwise as general  shop agreements 
or as shop agreements  in the companies of the Future Siemens Energy Group that are no 
longer part of  the Siemens Group after  the spin-off.
17.1.6 In addition,  the prerequisites for establishing a European works council will in principle 
also exist in the Future Siemens  Energy  Group after the spin-off takes effect.
17.1.7 The establishments  of the companies of the Future Siemens Energy Group are not affected 
by the spin-off.  The existence,  composition and terms of office of these existing  works 
councils and general works councils, youth and trainee representative bodies and general 
youth and trainee  representative bodies as well as handicapped representative bodies  and 
general handicapped  representative bodies remain  unaffected.
17.2 (General  and Group) Committees  of Spokespersons of  the Senior Executives
17.2.1 The existence, composition and terms of office of the committees of spokespersons and of 
the general committees  of spokespersons of the senior executives  at Siemens AG will not 
be affected by the spin-off.
17.2.2 The group committee of spokespersons in the Siemens Group will also continue to exist 
after the spin-off takes effect. However, Siemens  Energy AG and the other companies of 
the Future Siemens Energy Group will leave the Siemens  Group when the spin-off takes 
effect, and Siemens  Energy  AG will form the Future  Siemens Energy Group  together with 
its controlled companies. This will lead to personnel changes  in the composition of the 
group committee of spokespersons of Siemens AG. Accordingly, those members of the 
group committee of spokespersons who are employees of Siemens Energy AG or any of 
the other companies of the Future  Siemens Energy Group  will leave that body when the 
spin-off takes  effect.  This currently concerns  two members of the group committee of 
spokespersons. They  will be replaced  by employees  of the Future Siemens Group in 
accordance with the applicable  statutory provisions.
17.2.3 Since Siemens Energy AG currently  has no business  operations,  there is no committee of 
spokespersons of senior executives.  The spin-off will not directly change this situation 
either. However,  after the spin-off takes  effect, the prerequisites  for establishing a group 
25committee of spokespersons in the Future Siemens Energy Group will in principle exist 
pursuant to Section 21 of the German  Act on the Committees of Spokespersons of Senior  
Executives (Gesetz  über Sprecherausschüsse der leitenden  Angestellten – 
Sprecherausschussgesetz).
17.2.4 The committees  of spokespersons of the companies of the Future Siemens Energy Group  
will not be affected by the spin-off  in terms  of their  existence and composition.
17.3 Economic Committees
17.3.1 The economic  committees existing at Siemens AG and the other companies of the Siemens 
Group will continue to exist  without any change  even after the  spin-off.
17.3.2 Since Siemens Energy  AG currently is not acting operationally and is not employing any 
employees of its own, it has no economic committee. The spin-off will not change this 
situation either.
17.3.3 The economic committees currently existing in the companies of the Future  Siemens 
Energy Group will continue  to exist unchanged after the spin-off.
17.4 Collective Bargaining Agreements
17.4.1 The spin-off  will not affect  the applicability of collective bargaining agreements to 
companies of  the Siemens Group or of  the Future  Siemens Energy Group.
17.4.2 Siemens AG will continue to be a member  of the employers'  associations  of which it 
currently is  a member.
17.4.3 Siemens Energy KG is a member  of the following  employers' associations: Verband  der 
Bayerischen Metall-  und Elektro-Industrie  e.V., Südwestmetall Verband der Metall-  und 
Elektroindustrie Baden-Württemberg e.V.,  Verband der Metall- und Elektroindustrie in 
Berlin und Brandenburg e.V., Essener Unternehmensverband e. V., Unternehmerverband 
der Metallindustrie Ruhr-Niederrhein e.V., Hessenmetall - Verband der Metall-  und 
Elektro-Unternehmen Hessen e. V., VSME Verband der Sächsischen  Metall- und 
Elektroindustrie e.V.,  Nordmetall Verband der Metall- und Elektroindustrie e.V., VMET 
Verband der Metall-  und Elektroindustrie  in Thüringen e.V. Siemens Energy AG is 
currently not a member  of any employers' association  but currently  has no employees  
either.
2617.5 No Other Measures with Respect  to the Representative Bodies of the Employees 
under Shop Constitution Law
The spin-off has no further consequences  for the employees' rights  under works 
constitution law other than those  described in this § 17 of this Spin-off and Transfer  
Agreement and  no further  measures are planned in this respect either. 
§ 18
Consequences of the Spin-off for  
Corporate  Co-Determination/the Supervisory Board
18.1 Siemens AG has an equally  co-determined  supervisory board in accordance with the 
provisions of the MitbestG. The spin-off has no effect  on the existence and the size of the 
supervisory board  of Siemens AG as well as the terms of office of its members.  
Siemens AG will continue to be a company  with an equally co-determined supervisory 
board with twenty members  in accordance  with the provisions of the MitbestG (ten 
supervisory board members  representing the shareholders  and ten supervisory board 
members representing the employees). The employee  representatives on the supervisory 
board of Siemens AG are elected by the employees  of all companies/establishments of the 
Future Siemens Group located in Germany. Siemens  Energy  AG and the other  companies 
of the Future  Siemens  Energy  Group will no longer be group companies of Siemens AG 
after the spin-off takes  effect  so that employees of Siemens Energy  AG and the other 
domestic companies  of the Future Siemens Energy Group  will no longer be entitled  to elect 
members and to be elected as a member  of the supervisory board  of Siemens AG, and 
instead will be entitled to elect members and to be elected  as a member of the supervisory 
board of Siemens Energy  AG. Currently,  one employee  of the Future  Siemens Energy 
Group is a member  of the supervisory board  of Siemens  AG, who will no longer be eligible 
for election and will leave the supervisory board  of Siemens AG. The vacant  position will 
be filled  with an employee of the Future  Siemens Group  in accordance with the applicable  
statutory provisions. It is intended to have a successor appointed by a court for the period  
after the vacancy  begins until a successor  is elected.
18.2 Since Siemens  Energy AG does not have any employees to date, it currently has no 
supervisory board that is subject  to statutory employee co-determination. After  the spin-
off takes effect,  however,  Siemens Energy AG will establish an equally co-determined 
supervisory board  under  the provisions of the MitbestG  because it will be the controlling  
company of the Future Siemens  Energy Group and, accordingly, will have  more than 2,000 
employees in Germany  based  on the provision on attributing employees pursuant to 
Section 5 (1)  sentence  1 MitbestG. The managing board  of Siemens Energy  AG will 
27conduct so-called status proceedings pursuant  to Sections  97 et seqq. AktG after the spin-
off takes  effect. The Parties believe that, under  the provisions of the MitbestG,  normally  
more than 20,000 employees will be deemed to be employees of Siemens Energy AG after 
the spin-off takes effect and that, accordingly,  the supervisory  board  will consist  of twenty 
members pursuant  to Section 7 (1) sentence  1 no. 3 MitbestG,  of which ten members  will 
represent the shareholders and ten members  will represent the employees.
18.3 The ten supervisory board  members representing the shareholders  will be elected by the 
shareholders' meeting of Siemens Energy  AG prior to the spin-off taking  effect. They will 
be initially elected  for the period  beginning no later than the spin-off taking  effect until the 
registration with the register  of companies  of the amendment of the articles  of association 
in order to adjust the composition  of the supervisory  board so as to comply  with the 
provisions under  German  co-determination law after completion of the status  proceedings 
pursuant to Sections  97 et seqq.  AktG. Simultaneously, the same  supervisory board 
members representing the shareholders will be elected  subject to the condition precedent 
of registration of this amendment of the articles of association  with the register  of 
companies for a term of office  ending upon conclusion  of the next following shareholders' 
meeting. This serves the purpose  of facilitating a new election by the future shareholders 
of Siemens Energy  AG of the supervisory  board members representing the shareholders  to 
be elected by the shareholders' meeting. The supervisory board  members  representing  the 
employees will initially be appointed  by a court for a period after the registration with the 
register of companies of the amendment of the articles of association in order to adjust the 
composition of the supervisory board  so as to comply  with the provisions under  German 
co-determination law after completion  of the status  proceedings pursuant  to Sections 97 et 
seqq. AktG until the supervisory  board members representing the employees are elected by 
the employees. The spin-off  has no effects on the existence and composition of the 
supervisory boards of General  Partner GmbH, Siemens  Gamesa Renewable  Energy 
Management GmbH and Maschinenfabrik Reinhausen  GmbH. The supervisory  board  of 
General Partner  GmbH will continue to be composed of twenty supervisory board  
members, ten members  representing the shareholders  and ten members representing  the 
employees. The supervisory board of Siemens Gamesa  Renewable Energy 
Management GmbH will continue  to be composed of twelve supervisory board members, 
six members  representing the shareholders and six members  representing the employees. 
The supervisory board of Maschinenfabrik Reinhausen GmbH will continue to be 
composed of 12 supervisory  board members, six representing  the shareholders and six 
representing the employees.
28VII.
Additional Agreements
§ 19
Termination of the Controlling  Influence
Siemens AG, Siemens Energy AG and SBI GmbH have entered into the Deconsolidation 
Agreement attached hereto as Annex 19, which in particular provides for a restriction of 
the exercise  of the voting rights by Siemens AG and SBI GmbH  at the shareholders' 
meeting of Siemens Energy AG. The validity of the Deconsolidation Agreement is subject 
to the condition precedent of the spin-off  taking effect. As a consequence,  upon the spin-
off taking  effect,  Siemens AG will neither directly  nor indirectly exert any controlling  
influence within  the meaning of Section 17 AktG on Siemens  Energy AG. 
§ 20
Group  Separation Agreement
Siemens AG and Siemens  Energy AG hereby  enter into the Group Separation Agreement  
attached hereto as  Annex 20.
VIII.
Miscellaneous
§ 21
Costs and  Transaction Taxes
21.1 The Parties  assume that, as regards the entering into and implementation of this Spin-off 
and Transfer Agreement, no value  added  tax (Umsatzsteuer ) will arise because the transfer 
of the Spin-off Assets is either not subject  to tax or tax-exempt.  None of the Parties  will 
waive any tax exemption  of the services rendered  under this Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement. If the tax authorities  take the view  that value  added tax arises in connection 
with any of these events,  the Parties undertake  to take all lawful  and reasonable measures  
to prevent such an assessment of value added tax and, if necessary,  the unappealability 
(Unanfechtbarkeit ) of such assessment. If value added tax is assessed  nevertheless against  
Siemens AG, Siemens Energy AG is not obligated to pay any additional amount  to Siemens 
AG as regards  the value added  tax; however, to the extent that Siemens Energy  AG has the 
right to deduct  input tax (Vorsteuerabzug) as regards the value  added  tax, Siemens Energy 
AG will pay to Siemens AG an amount equal to the input tax deduction, provided that 
Siemens Energy  AG may also fulfill this payment obligation  by effectively  assigning any 
29refund claim  against the tax office. Insofar  as value added  tax is nevertheless assessed 
against Siemens  Energy AG and Siemens Energy  AG is not entitled to deduct input tax 
with regard to value added tax, Siemens AG shall indemnify  Siemens Energy AG against 
value added tax  and any interest  thereon.
21.2 Siemens AG bears the costs that have arisen and will arise at the level of Siemens AG and 
Siemens Energy  AG in connection with the preparation, conclusion and implementation  of 
this Spin-off  and Transfer Agreement  on or before the Closing Date (including the costs of 
each shareholders' meeting and the costs of the filings for registration and of the 
registrations with the registers of companies, of the joint spin-off report,  of the spin-off 
audit and of the audits in connection with the Capital Increases in Kind and the post-
formation acquisition and of the planned admission to stock  exchange  trading and the 
respective costs for advisors, banks and insurers assigned  by Siemens Energy AG) and any 
transaction taxes  (Verkehrsteuer ) (with the exception of value added tax, which is provided  
for specifically  in § 21.1 of  this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement). 
§ 22
Final Provisions
22.1 This Spin-off and Transfer Agreement is subject to the condition precedent of approval of 
the shareholders'  meetings  of the Parties.
22.2 Siemens AG's managing board will ensure that the spin-off does not take effect  until after 
implementation of the Capital  Increases in Kind has been registered with the register of 
companies.
22.3 In the event that the spin-off has not taken  effect by the end of 31 March 2021 pursuant  to 
§ 6.1 of this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement, each of the Parties  may withdraw from this 
Spin-off and Transfer Agreement  by written  declaration  to the other Party.  
22.4 Siemens AG will grant Siemens Energy AG access  to all business  records related or 
allocable to the items of  the Spin-off Assets. 
22.5 Any disputes arising between the Parties  under or in connection with this Spin-off and 
Transfer Agreement or with regard to its validity,  including any disputes relating to the 
termination hereof or any subsequent amendment hereto,  will be finally decided by an 
arbitral tribunal  in accordance  with the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber 
of Commerce ("ICC") in the relevant  valid version, and recourse to the jurisdiction of the 
state courts is excluded (except  for measures involving preliminary relief). A decision of 
30the arbitral tribunal regarding the validity  of this arbitration clause is legally binding. The 
place of arbitration is Munich.  The number of arbitrators is three.  Each Party appoints one 
arbitrator to be confirmed by the ICC. These two arbitrators appoint  the third arbitrator 
within 30 days of their appointment.  If the two arbitrators cannot agree on the third 
arbitrator within this period of time, the third arbitrator will be appointed by the ICC. The 
language of the proceedings is German.  An order for the presentation of documents is 
permitted only to the extent that any of the Parties refers explicitly to the documents  in its 
written submissions.  The consolidation of several arbitration proceedings pending at the 
ICC into singular arbitration proceedings is permitted only with the consent of both Parties. 
The Emergency Arbitrator  Provisions  do not apply. 
22.6 The annexes to this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement are part of  this Agreement.
22.7 Any claims under this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement  become statute-barred upon 
expiration of 31 December 2030, to the extent not otherwise provided for in this 
Agreement.
22.8 Amendments and supplements to this Spin-off and Transfer Agreement, including any 
amendment to or contracting-out of this provision, require written form  unless stricter 
requirements of form  must be complied with.
22.9 If one or more provisions in this Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement are or become  
completely or partially void, invalid or impracticable,  the validity  of this Spin-off and 
Transfer Agreement  and its other  provisions  will not be affected thereby. In such case, the 
void, invalid or impracticable provision will be deemed replaced by a provision that comes 
as close as possible  to what was originally intended  by the Parties in terms of form, content, 
time, measure and scope  of applicability  in accordance with the commercial intent  and 
purpose of the void, invalid  or impracticable  provision.  This applies  accordingly  if this 
Spin-off and Transfer Agreement  lacks  any provisions.
31List of Annexes
Annex Title
0.5.3 Contribution Agreement
3.2 Spin-off Statement  of Financial Position
11.1 Rights under Stock Entitlements  (Aktienzusagen)
11.2.1 Rules applicable to the Adjustment of Stock Entitlements (Aktienzusagen) for 
Beneficiaries who are not covered by 11.2.2
11.2.2 Rules applicable to the Compensation for Rights under Stock Entitlements 
(Aktienzusagen ) of Members of Corporate Bodies and Employees leaving the 
Siemens Group
13.1 Articles of  Association of Siemens Energy  AG
13.2 Authorization to Acquire  and Use Treasury  Shares pursuant to Section  71 (1) 
no. 8 AktG
13.3 Authorization to issue convertible bonds/bonds with warrants  pursuant to 
Section 221 AktG
§ 19 Deconsolidation Agreement
§ 20 Group Separation Agreement
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
1Contribution  Agreement
between
Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin and  Munich,
– hereinafter also referred to as "Siemens AG" –
Siemens Beteiligungen Inland GmbH, Munich,
– hereinafter also referred to as "SBI GmbH " –
and
Siemens Energy AG, Munich,
– hereinafter  referred to together as the "Parties"  or individually as a "Party"  –
22 May 2020
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
2I.
Preamble
0.1 Siemens AG with its registered  offices  in Berlin  and Munich  is registered with the register 
of companies (Handelsregister) at the district court (Amtsgericht) of Charlottenburg under 
registration number  HRB  12300  B and with the register  of companies  at the district court 
of Munich under registration number  HRB  6684. Siemens Beteiligungen  Inland GmbH  
with its registered  office in Munich is registered with the register of companies  at the 
district court  of Munich under  registration  number  HRB 139644 and is a wholly-owned 
direct subsidiary  of Siemens AG.
0.2 Siemens Energy AG with its registered  office in Munich  is registered with the register of 
companies at the district court  of Munich under registration  number HRB 252581. The 
capital stock of Siemens Energy  AG at the time of the conclusion of this Contribution 
Agreement amounts to EUR 100,000, divided  into 100,000 shares of no par value 
(registered shares).  The sole  shareholder  of Siemens  Energy AG is Siemens AG.
0.3 Siemens AG has decided to legally separate the worldwide operations of Gas and Power  
of the Siemens  Group to be legally  separated and the shares held by the Siemens Group  in 
the amount of approximately 67 % in Siemens  Gamesa Renewable Energy, S.A. ("SGRE 
S.A.") (together, the "Siemens Energy Business")  under Siemens Energy AG. For 
purposes of this legal separation, the Siemens Energy Business  is to be transferred  to 
Siemens Energy  AG through a combination  of a spin-off  pursuant  to the German 
Transformation Act (Umwandlungsgesetz, "UmwG")  and contributions, in each case in 
exchange for the granting of new shares.  The shares of Siemens Energy AG are to be listed 
on the Frankfurt  Stock Exchange.  Going forward,  Siemens Energy AG is to be conducted  
as an  entity that  is legally  and organizationally independent of Siemens AG. 
0.4 In preparation  of the legal  separation,  the Siemens Energy Business has been and will be 
legally and organizationally consolidated  under  the umbrella  of Siemens Gas and Power 
GmbH & Co. KG with its registered office in Munich and registered with the register  of 
companies at the district court  of Munich under registration number  HRA 111200, to be 
renamed Siemens  Energy Global  GmbH & Co. KG ("Siemens Energy  KG"). The fixed 
capital of Siemens Energy  KG amounts  to EUR 174,908,333 at the time of conclusion  of 
this Contribution Agreement. A partnership interest representing a pro rata amount  of the 
fixed capital of EUR 153,892,732 (approximately 87.98 % of the fixed capital) is held 
directly by Siemens AG. A partnership interest representing  the remaining  pro rata amount 
of the fixed capital of EUR 21,015,601 (approximately  12.02 % of the fixed  capital) is held 
by SBI GmbH. The sole personally liable  partner (general  partner) of Siemens Energy KG, 
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
3which holds no interest in its fixed capital,  is Siemens Gas and Power Management GmbH,  
a German  limited liability  company (GmbH), with its registered  office in Munich,  
registered with the register of companies  at the district court of Munich under HRB 241345 
("General Partner GmbH"). At the time of conclusion of this Contribution Agreement, 
the share capital of General Partner GmbH amounts to EUR 25,000, divided into 25,000 
shares, each with a nominal value  of EUR 1.00. At the time of conclusion of this 
Contribution Agreement,  approximately 87.98 % of that share  capital  (21,996 shares  
bearing the serial  numbers 1 through  21,996) are held by Siemens AG. The remaining 
approximately 12.02 % of the share  capital (3,004 shares bearing the serial numbers  21,997 
through 25,000)  is held  by SBI GmbH.
0.5 The majority interests in Siemens Energy  KG and General  Partner GmbH  are to be 
transferred by way of a spin-off  by absorption (Abspaltung zur Aufnahme ) pursuant  to the 
German Transformation Act from Siemens AG as the transferring entity to Siemens 
Energy AG as the receiving  entity (the "Spin-off").  As consideration, the shareholders of 
Siemens AG are to receive  new shares  in Siemens  Energy AG. For this purpose, Siemens 
Energy AG and Siemens AG are entering into a spin-off and transfer agreement in this 
same deed as of the date hereof. The Spin-off  takes economic effect as of 1 April 2020, 
0:00 hours (the "Spin-off Effective Date "). The tax transfer effective date of the Spin-off 
is 31 March 2020,  24:00 hours (the "Spin-off Tax Transfer Effective Date"). The Spin-
off takes legal  effect through its registration  with the registers of companies  of Siemens 
AG, with the later registration  being  determinative. If the Spin-off has not been registered 
with the registers  of companies of Siemens AG by the close  of 31 October 2020, the Spin-
off Effective Date  is deemed to be 1 October 2020, 0:00 hours, and the Spin-off Tax 
Transfer Effective Date  is deemed to be 30 September  2020, 24:00  hours. In the event of 
any further delay  of the registration beyond  31 October of any subsequent year, the Spin-
off Effective Date  and the Spin-off Tax Transfer Effective  Date are each postponed  
accordingly by one year.
0.6 Siemens AG intends not to completely  separate itself from  the Siemens Energy  Business 
in connection with the Spin-off, but, as a non-controlling anchor shareholder, would 
initially like to retain a (direct and indirect) minority participation  in Siemens  Energy  AG, 
which will be listed on the stock exchange  in the future, with a total participation  of 45 % 
of the share capital, of which 9,9 % of the share  capital shall be transferred  to Siemens 
Pension-Trust e.V. in connection with the Spin-off.  With the strategic and operational 
development of Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG, Siemens AG intends to reduce its 
stake in the amount  of 35,1 % in Siemens Energy AG significantly in a timeframe of twelve 
to eighteen months after the Spin-off  taking effect. To create such a participation, Siemens 
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
4AG, as the sole shareholder, intends to adopt the following  resolutions at the shareholders' 
meeting of Siemens Energy AG:
0.6.1 The capital stock of Siemens Energy  AG will be increased from  EUR 100,000 by 
EUR 239,582,401 to EUR 239,682,401 in return for the issuance  of 239,582,401 shares of 
no par value  (registered shares), each representing a pro rata amount of the capital stock 
of EUR 1.00. Siemens AG is to be permitted to subscribe for the new shares of no par 
value. The capital stock is to be increased  in return for contribution in kind,  which will be 
a mixed consideration.  In return  for the issuance of 239,582,401  new  shares  of no par value 
(registered shares)  in Siemens Energy  AG, Siemens AG will transfer  to Siemens Energy 
AG a partial  partnership interest in Siemens  Energy KG in the amount  of 
EUR 57,693,148.85 and 8,246 shares in General  Partner GmbH  bearing the serial 
numbers 13,751 through 21,996; in addition to the shares of no par value  to be granted, 
Siemens Energy  AG will pay to Siemens AG further consideration in the amount of 
EUR 175,746.41 plus interest  credited to bank accounts and intercompany clearing 
accounts of Siemens Energy AG from 1 April  2020  up to and including the date of 
disbursement or minus interest debited during  this period (referred to as a mixed 
contribution in kind). 
0.6.2 The capital  stock of Siemens Energy AG will additionally be increased from 
EUR 239,682,401 by EUR 87,307,936 to EUR 326,990,337  in return  for the issuance  of 
87,307,936 shares  of no par value (registered  shares), each representing a pro rata amount  
of the capital stock of EUR 1.00, under exclusion of the existing  shareholder's subscription 
right. SBI GmbH is to be permitted  to subscribe  for 87,307,936 new shares of no par value. 
In return  for the issuance  of the new shares  of no par value  in Siemens Energy AG, SBI 
GmbH will transfer to Siemens Energy  AG its partnership interest in Siemens Energy KG 
in the amount of EUR 21,015,601 and its 3,004 shares in General Partner GmbH  bearing 
the serial numbers 21,997 through  25,000. Additional  consideration  in the form of a cash 
payment is not intended.
0.7 The economic  effective date and the tax transfer date of the contributions in kind are to 
correspond to the Spin-off Effective  Date and the Spin-off Tax Transfer Effective Date. In 
the event of a postponement  of the Spin-off  Effective Date, these dates are to be postponed 
accordingly.
0.8 Siemens AG and SBI GmbH will make  the contributions  in kind in accordance with this 
Contribution Agreement. Only  the partial partnership interest remaining with Siemens  AG 
thereafter and the shares in General  Partner GmbH remaining  with Siemens AG thereafter 
will then be the subject  matter of the Spin-off.
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
5Now, therefore,  the Parties agree  as follows:
II.
Siemens AG's Mixed Contribution in Kind
§ 1
Subject of the  Contribution; Transfer
1.1 From  its partnership interest in Siemens Energy KG representing a pro rata amount of the 
fixed capital (capital account I)  of Siemens Energy  KG of EUR 153,892,732, Siemens AG 
contributes to Siemens Energy  AG a part thereof representing  a pro rata amount of the 
fixed capital  of EUR 57,693,148.85 (in words: fifty-seven  million six hundred ninety-three  
thousand one hundred  forty-eight  euros and eighty-five  euro cents)  ("Partnership Interest 
to be contributed by Siemens AG") as a contribution in kind.  In addition, Siemens AG 
contributes 8,246 (in words: eight thousand  two hundred  forty-six) shares in General  
Partner GmbH, which are listed in the latter's list of shareholders (Gesellschafterliste) with 
the serial  numbers 13,751 through 21,996, ("General  Partner  Shares  to be contributed 
by Siemens AG";  this the Partnership  Interest to be contributed by Siemens AG are 
hereinafter together also referred to as "Siemens AG’s  Contribution in Kind")  to Siemens 
Energy AG as a  contribution in kind.
1.2 The Partnership Interest to be contributed  by Siemens AG is transferred  along with all 
related rights and duties, including the pertaining entitlement to all profits  that have thus 
far not been  withdrawn,  the balance on Siemens  AG's private account to be allocated on a 
pro rata basis to the Contributed  Partnership  Interest  to be contributed by Siemens AG, 
and the pro rata amount in the jointly held reserve account  (gesamthänderisch gebundenes 
Rücklagekonto) corresponding  to the pro rata amount  of the fixed  capital. The General  
Partner Shares to be contributed  by Siemens AG are transferred along with all related rights  
and duties,  including the entitlement to distribution  of all profits  that have  thus far not been 
distributed.
1.3 Existing  obligations  of Siemens  AG to make  contributions to Siemens Energy KG remain 
unaffected in its relationship  with Siemens  Energy KG and are not assumed by Siemens 
Energy AG in the  internal relationship.
1.4 From  its entire  partnership interest in Siemens Energy KG, Siemens AG hereby assigns  a 
part thereof in an amount  equivalent to EUR 57,693,148.85  (in words: fifty-seven million 
six hundred ninety-three thousand one hundred forty-eight euros and eight-five euro cents)  
of the fixed capital of Siemens Energy  KG (the Partnership Interest to be contributed  by 
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
6Siemens AG) and the General Partner Shares to be contributed  by Siemens AG to Siemens 
Energy AG, which hereby  accepts this assignment. 
1.5 The assignment pursuant to § 1.4 of this Contribution Agreement is subject  to the condition 
precedent that the transfer  of the Partnership Interest to be contributed by Siemens AG has 
been registered  with the register of companies of Siemens  Energy  KG accompanied by a 
notice of succession  to specific rights and obligations (Sonderrechtsnachfolgevermerk).
1.6 Siemens Energy AG assumes a liability amount of Siemens AG equivalent to the pro rata 
amount of the fixed  capital represented by the Partnership Interest to be contributed  by 
Siemens AG. 
§ 2
Consideration
As consideration for Siemens AG’s Contribution in Kind, Siemens Energy  AG will grant  to 
Siemens AG in accordance with § 6 of this Contribution Agreement 239,582,401 shares of no par 
value (registered shares) in Siemens Energy AG, each representing a pro rata amount in its capital  
stock of EUR 1.00 (the "Siemens AG's New Shares"). In addition, Siemens Energy  AG will pay 
to Siemens  AG as further  consideration an amount of EUR 175,746.41 (in words: one hundred 
seventy-five thousand seven hundred  forty-six  euros and forty-one euro cents), plus any interest 
credited to bank accounts and group-internal settlement  accounts (Verrechnungskonten) of 
Siemens Energy  AG between 1 April 2020 and up to and including day of the payment  or, as the 
case may be, less any interest debited  from such accounts during  this period (the "Cash 
Payment"). The Cash Payment is due for payment  upon registration  of the implementation  of the 
capital increase with the register of companies of Siemens Energy AG and must  be transferred  to 
an account to be  designated by Siemens AG.
III.
SBI GmbH's Contribution in Kind  
§ 3
Subject of the  Contribution; Transfer
3.1 SBI GmbH contributes to Siemens Energy  AG its entire partnership  interest in Siemens 
Energy KG in the amount of EUR 21,015,601  (in words:  twenty-one million  fifteen  
thousand six hundred  and one euros) of the fixed  capital (capital account  I) of Siemens 
Energy KG ("Partnership Interest to be contributed  by SBI GmbH ") as a contribution 
in kind. In addition, SBI GmbH contributes  3,004 (in words:  three thousand and four) 
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
7shares in General Partner GmbH, which  are listed in General Partner GmbH's  list of 
shareholders with the serial numbers 21,997 through  25,000, ("General Partner Shares 
to be contributed by SBI GmbH "; this and the Partnership Interest to be contributed by 
SBI GmbH are hereinafter together also referred  to as "SBI GmbH’s Contribution  in 
Kind")  to Siemens Energy AG as a  contribution in kind.
3.2 The Partnership  Interest to be contributed by SBI GmbH  is transferred along with all related 
rights and duties, including the pertaining  entitlement  to all profits  that have  thus far not 
been withdrawn, the balance on SBI GmbH's  private account to be allocated  to the 
Partnership Interest to be contributed  by SBI GmbH, and the pro rata amount in the jointly 
held reserve account corresponding  to the pro rata amount of the fixed  capital.  The General 
Partner Shares to be contributed by SBI GmbH are transferred along with all related rights 
and duties,  including the entitlement to distribution  of all profits  that have  thus far not been 
distributed.
3.3 Existing  obligations of SBI GmbH to make  contributions to Siemens Energy KG remain 
unaffected in its relationship  with Siemens  Energy KG and are not assumed by Siemens 
Energy AG in the  internal relationship.
3.4 SBI GmbH  hereby  assigns  the Partnership Interest to be contributed by SBI GmbH and the 
General Partner  Shares to be contributed by SBI GmbH to Siemens  Energy AG, which  
hereby accepts this assignment. 
3.5 The assignment pursuant to § 3.4 of this Contribution Agreement is subject  to the condition 
precedent that the transfer of the Partnership Interest to be contributed by SBI GmbH  has 
been registered  with the register of companies of Siemens  Energy  KG accompanied by a 
notice of succession  to specific rights and obligations.
3.6 Siemens Energy AG assumes  the liability amount of SBI GmbH  registered with the register  
of companies  of Siemens Energy  KG.
§ 4
Consideration
As consideration  for the contribution of the Partnership Interest to be contributed  by SBI GmbH 
and the General  Partner Shares to be contributed by SBI GmbH,  Siemens Energy  AG will grant to 
SBI GmbH in accordance  with § 6 of this Contribution  Agreement 87,307,936 shares of no par 
value (registered shares) in Siemens Energy AG, each representing a pro rata amount in its capital  
stock of EUR  1.00 (" SBI GmbH's New Shares").
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
8IV.
Common Provisions
§ 5
Contribution Effective Date; Tax Transfer Effective Date
5.1 Siemens AG’s Contribution in Kind and SBI GmbH’s Contribution in Kind will be made 
with economic effect  as of 1 April 2020, 0:00 hours  ("Contribution Effective Date"). If 
the respective assignments  pursuant  to § 1.4 and § 3.4 of this Contribution Agreement  have 
not become effective by the close  of 31 October  2020 through registration with the register 
of companies  of Siemens Energy  KG or by waiver of the condition precedent as set forth 
in § 11 of this Contribution Agreement, in each case, the Contribution Effective Date  is 
postponed to 1 October 2020,  0:00 hours. If the respective assignments  have  not become 
effective by the close of 31 October of any subsequent  year,  the Contribution Effective 
Date is thereby postponed in each case accordingly by one  year  to 1 October, 0:00 hours.
5.2 The tax transfer effective date is, in each case, 31 March 2020, 24:00 hours (the "Tax 
Transfer Effective Date").  If the Contribution Effective  Date  pursuant to § 5.1 of this 
Contribution Agreement is postponed, the Tax Transfer Effective  Date  is postponed  
accordingly, i.e., if a Contribution  Effective  Date is 1 October 2020, 0:00 hours,  the Tax 
Transfer Effective  Date  is postponed to 30 September  2020, 24:00 hours,  and if a 
Contribution Effective  Date is 1 October,  0:00 hours, of any subsequent  year, the Tax 
Transfer Effective Date  is postponed to 30 September,  24:00 hours,  of that year. After  the 
assignments pursuant to § 1.4 and § 3.4 of this Contribution Agreement take effect, 
Siemens Energy  AG will submit, in each case, an application  pursuant to Section  20 (5) 
sentence 1, (6) sentence 3 of the German Transformation Tax Act 
(Umwandlungssteuergesetz , "UmwStG") in due time.  
§ 6
Capital Increase
6.1 To create Siemens AG's New  Shares, Siemens  Energy AG will increase its capital  stock  
from EUR 100,000  by EUR 239,582,401 to EUR 239,682,401 by issuing 239,582,401 
shares of no par value (registered shares) in Siemens Energy AG. In order to create SBI 
GmbH's New Shares, Siemens  Energy AG will additionally increase its capital stock  from 
EUR 239,682,401 by EUR 87,307,936 to EUR 326,990,337 by issuing 87,307,936 shares  
of no par value (registered shares)  in Siemens Energy AG under  exclusion of subscription 
rights. A pro rata amount of EUR 1.00 of the amount of the increase of the capital stock is 
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
9attributable to each new share of no par value.  The shares are issued at a lowest issue price 
of EUR  1.00 each, no additional premium (agio) is owed.
6.2 Siemens AG's New Shares and SBI GmbH's New Shares are entitled to participate in 
profits for the fiscal years from 1 October  2019 onwards.  If the Contribution Effective Date 
pursuant to § 5.1 of this Contribution Agreement is postponed to 1 October 2020, the date 
as of which Siemens AG's New Shares and/or SBI GmbH's New  Shares, respectively, are 
entitled to participate  in profits  is thereby postponed  to the effect  that the shares are entitled 
to participate in profits as of 1 October 2020. If the Contribution Effective Date is 
postponed by a further year, the entitlement to participate in profits is postponed  
accordingly.
6.3 Siemens Energy AG will exercise  its valuation option (Bewertungswahlrecht ) pursuant to 
Section 20 (2)  sentence  2 UmwStG to the effect that SBI GmbH’s Contribution in Kind 
and Siemens AG’s Contribution in Kind are each recognized  at the tax book values.  
Siemens Energy  AG will submit the book value application necessary  for this purpose in 
each case  in due time. 
§ 7 
Warranty
7.1 Siemens AG warrants that, as of the point in time that the assignments  pursuant  to § 1.4 of 
this Contribution Agreement take effect, it is the holder of the Partnership Interest  to be 
contributed by Siemens AG and the General  Partner Shares to be contributed by Siemens 
AG, that it can freely dispose of the Partnership Interest  to be contributed  by Siemens AG 
and the General  Partner Shares  to be contributed by Siemens AG and that they are not 
encumbered with rights of third parties.  Aside from this, no quality of the Partnership 
Interest to be contributed  by Siemens AG or General Partner  Shares to be contributed  by 
Siemens AG, especially  specific features  or a certain value of the business  of Siemens 
Energy KG, is agreed.
7.2 SBI GmbH warrants that, as of the point in time that the assignments pursuant to § 3.4 of 
this Contribution Agreement take effect, it is the holder of the Partnership Interest  to be 
contributed by SBI GmbH and the General  Partner Shares to be contributed by SBI GmbH, 
that it can freely dispose of the Partnership Interest to be contributed by SBI GmbH  and 
the General Partner  Shares to be contributed by SBI GmbH  and that they are not 
encumbered with rights of third parties.  Aside from this, no quality of the Partnership 
Interest to be contributed  by SBI GmbH or the General Partner Shares to be contributed by 
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
10SBI GmbH, especially  specific features or a certain value of the business of Siemens 
Energy KG, is agreed.
7.3 To the extent legally permissible, all rights and warranties relating to the quality of Siemens 
AG’s Contribution in Kind and SBI GmbH’s Contribution in Kind that might exist in 
addition to those in § 7.1  and § 7.2 of this Contribution Agreement  under statutory  
provisions or otherwise  are excluded. The provision in this paragraph applies  to all rights 
and warranties, regardless  of the legal nature (contractual or pre-contractual rights  and 
warranties, rights  and warranties  under  tort or other rights and warranties),  and especially 
also to those rights that could  result in the cancelation or unwinding  of this Contribution 
Agreement or any  similar legal effect. 
§ 8
No Capital Increases;  No Withdrawals
Siemens AG and SBI GmbH  undertake  to ensure  that no shareholder resolution will be adopted 
on or before  the date the assignments pursuant  to § 1.4 and § 3.4 of this Contribution Agreement 
take effect under which the fixed capital of Siemens Energy  KG existing  at the time of conclusion 
of this Contribution Agreement  or the share  capital  of General Partner GmbH  is changed. Siemens 
AG and SBI GmbH also undertake to ensure that no withdrawals from Siemens Energy  KG are 
made and that no profits of General Partner GmbH are distributed on or before the date the 
assignments pursuant  to § 1.4 and § 3.4 of this Contribution Agreement take effect. Siemens AG 
and SBI GmbH will ensure that, during the period between  the conclusion of this Contribution 
Agreement and the date the assignments pursuant  to § 1.4 and § 3.4 take effect, Siemens AG’s 
Contribution in Kind and SBI GmbH’s Contribution  in Kind are managed  and disposed of only in 
the ordinary course  of business and with the diligence of a prudent businessman  and in compliance  
with the requirements of this  Contribution  Agreement. 
§ 9
Indemnification  from Limited Partner Liability
If and to the extent that the personal  liability of Siemens AG is triggered  for liabilities of Siemens 
Energy KG because the contribution to liability capital  (Hafteinlage ) made by Siemens AG to 
Siemens Energy  KG is deemed to be paid back  to Siemens AG or one of the other measures 
specified in Section 172 (4) sentence 2 HGB has been taken  after the transfer in rem of the 
Partnership Interest to be contributed by Siemens AG without the liability capital  contribution 
having been returned in fact to Siemens AG or one of its affiliated companies, Siemens Energy  
AG must indemnify  Siemens AG against the relevant liability  or obligation  on first demand. This 
applies in particular in the event  that Siemens Energy  AG's notice  of succession  to specific rights  
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
11and obligations is not registered, or is not registered  in time, with the register of companies.  The 
same applies  if and to the extent that the personal  liability of SBI GmbH  is triggered for liabilities 
of Siemens Energy KG because  the contribution to liability  capital  made  by SBI GmbH to Siemens 
Energy KG is deemed  to be paid back to SBI GmbH or one of the other measures  specified  in 
Section 172 (4) sentence 2 HGB has been taken after the transfer  in rem of the Partnership Interest 
to be contributed  by SBI GmbH without the liability capital contribution having been  returned  in 
fact to SBI GmbH  or one of its affiliated  companies.
§ 10
Application  for Registration with the Register  of Companies
The Parties commit themselves to mutual cooperation in order to procure  the registration of the 
transfer of Siemens  AG's  Contributed  Partnership Interest and SBI GmbH's Contributed 
Partnership Interest to Siemens  Energy  AG with the register  of companies  of Siemens Energy KG 
promptly after this Contribution Agreement takes  effect pursuant  to § 13 of this Contribution 
Agreement. The registration of the transfer is to be accompanied by a notice  of succession to 
specific rights and obligations;  the Parties undertake to make all declarations necessary  for that 
purpose, including in particular  declarations regarding the payout of the liability capital  
contribution that has not taken place (negative compensation assurance (negative  
Abfindungsversicherung)).
§ 11
Waiver  of Conditions
Siemens AG may waive the condition precedent set forth in § 1.5 of this Contribution Agreement  
by notarized notice to Siemens  Energy  AG, which will result  in the assignments taking  effect 
immediately upon  receipt  of the notice  by Siemens Energy AG; Siemens Energy AG hereby agrees  
to this waiver of the condition precedent. SBI GmbH may also waive the condition precedent set 
forth in § 3.5 of this Contribution  Agreement by notarized notice to Siemens Energy  AG; in this 
respect as well,  Siemens Energy AG hereby agrees to this  waiver of the condition precedent. 
§ 12
Costs and  Transaction Taxes
12.1 The Parties assume that, as regards the entering into and implementation  of this 
Contribution Agreement, no value  added  tax (Umsatzsteuer) arises  because the transfer of 
Siemens AG’s Contribution in Kind and the transfer of SBI GmbH’s Contribution in Kind 
are either not subject to tax or are tax-exempt.  None of the Parties will waive any tax 
exemption of the services rendered under  this Contribution Agreement. If the tax 
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
12authorities take the view  that value added tax arises in connection with any of these events, 
the Parties  undertake  to take all lawful and reasonable measures  to prevent  such an 
assessment of value added tax and, if necessary, the unappealability (Unanfechtbarkeit) of 
such assessment. To the extent  that value  added tax is assessed nevertheless against 
Siemens AG and/or SBI GmbH,  Siemens Energy  AG is not obligated  to pay any additional 
amount to Siemens AG or to SBI GmbH as regards value added tax; however, to the extent 
that Siemens Energy AG has the right to deduct input tax (Vorsteuerabzug) as regards the 
value added  tax, Siemens Energy AG will pay to Siemens  AG and/or to SBI GmbH  an 
amount equal to the input tax deduction, provided that Siemens Energy AG may also fulfill 
this payment  obligation  by effectively  assigning any refund claim  against the tax office.  To 
the extent that value added tax is nevertheless  assessed against Siemens Energy  AG and 
Siemens Energy AG does not have  the right to deduct input tax, Siemens AG shall 
indemnify Siemens  Energy AG against value added tax and any interest thereon.
12.2 The costs of the notarization of this Contribution Agreement bears  Siemens AG. Siemens 
AG bears the other  costs that have  arisen or will arise for Siemens AG and Siemens Energy  
AG in connection with the notarization of this Contribution Agreement  and its 
implementation until the point in time of registration with the register of companies 
(including the costs for the audit of the contribution in kind and the post-formation audit  
as well as the corresponding  costs for advisors, the costs for the shareholders' meeting of 
Siemens Energy AG and the costs for filing for registration with the register  of companies) 
and any transaction taxes  (Verkehrsteuer)  (with  the exception of value added  tax, which  is 
provided for specifically  in § 12.1). SBI GmbH  bears  the other costs that have arisen  or 
will arise for SBI GmbH in connection with the notarization of this Contribution 
Agreement and its implementation.
§ 13
Effectiveness
This Contribution Agreement takes  effect when
(1) the shareholders'  meeting  of Siemens Energy AG has approved this Contribution 
Agreement as a  post-formation agreement and
(2) this Contribution  Agreement has been registered as a post-formation  agreement in 
the register of companies.
– Convenience Translation – only the  German  version is binding –
Annex 0.5.3 to the Spin-Off  and Transfer  Agreement
13§ 14
Final Provisions
14.1 The Parties  will initiate  all necessary  or appropriate measures and legal acts and cooperate 
in them in order  to meet the obligations and implement the measures  set forth  in this 
Contribution Agreement.
14.2 In the event that the capital increases pursuant  to § 6 of this Contribution Agreement have  
not taken effect  by 31 March  2021 in each case, each of the Parties may withdraw from  
this Contribution  Agreement  by written declaration to the other Party.
14.3 Any disputes arising between the Parties  under or in connection with this Contribution 
Agreement or with regard to its effectiveness will be finally decided  by an arbitral tribunal 
in accordance with the Rules  of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce 
("ICC") in the relevant valid version, and recourse to the jurisdiction of the state courts is 
excluded (except  for measures involving preliminary  relief).  A decision of the arbitral 
tribunal regarding the validity of this arbitration  clause is binding. The place of arbitration 
is Munich. The number  of arbitrators is three. Each  Party  appoints one arbitrator to be 
confirmed by the ICC.  These  two arbitrators appoint  the third arbitrator within 30 days of 
their appointment. If the two arbitrators cannot  agree on the third arbitrator within this 
period of time, the third arbitrator  will be appointed  by the ICC. The language  of the 
proceedings is German.  An order for the presentation of documents is permitted  only to the 
extent that any of the Parties  refers explicitly  to the documents  in its written  submissions. 
The consolidation of several  arbitration proceedings pending at the ICC into singular  
arbitration proceedings is permitted  only with the consent of both Parties. The Emergency  
Arbitrator Provisions do not apply.
14.4 Amendments and supplements to this Contribution Agreement, including any amendment  
to or contracting-out of this provision, require  written  form unless stricter  requirements of 
form must be complied with.
14.5 Should any provision of this Contribution Agreement be or become  invalid or infeasible, 
the validity or feasibility of the other provisions of this Contribution Agreement will not 
be affected thereby. The invalid  or infeasible provision is deemed replaced by a legally  
valid provision  that comes as close as possible in economic  terms or otherwise to what the 
Parties had intended or would have intended based on the meaning and purpose of this 
Contribution Agreement  had they been aware  of the potential invalidity or infeasibility  of 
such provision. The same  applies to any unintended gap in  this Contribution  Agreement.
– Convenience Translation – only  the German version is binding –
Annex  3.2 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
1Spin-off Statements of Financial Position
as of the effective  date 1 April 2020, 0.00 hours
ASSETS LIABILITIES and EQUITY
Euro Euro
12,677,994,863.28
0.00
0.0012,677,994,863.28
0.00
0.00
0.00Non-current assets
Financial assets
Participations in affiliated companies
Current assets
Prepaid expenses
12,677,994,863.28Equity
Provisions
Liabilities
Deferred income
12,677,994,868.28
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  11.1 to the Spin-off  and Transfer  Agreement
1List of Stock Entitlements
This list does not include those stock entitlements that  will have been  fulfilled upon the expected effectiveness of the spin-off  in September 2020. 
This list does further not contain  any information as to  which  specific stock entitlements have  been granted to which individual beneficiaries.)
1. Stock Entitlements  Granted to Current Members of the Managing Board of Siemens AG
1.1. Siemens Stock Awards, Tranche  2017, which is subject to the provisions of the 
management guideline dated November 2016 ("VS Stock  Awards  2017"); the vesting 
period ends at the end of the day on which the preliminary  results for the fiscal year are 
published in the calendar year 2020.
1.2. Siemens Stock Awards, Tranche  2018, which is subject to the provisions of the 
management guideline dated November 2016 ("VS Stock  Awards  2018"); the vesting 
period ends at the end of the day on which the preliminary  results for the fiscal year are 
published in the calendar year 2021.
1.3. Siemens Stock Awards, Tranche  2019, which is subject to the provisions of the 
management guideline dated November 2018 ("VS Stock  Awards  2019"); the vesting 
period ends at the end of the day on which the preliminary  results for the fiscal year are 
published in the calendar year 2022.
1.4. Siemens Stock Awards, Tranche  2020, which is subject to the provisions of the 
management guideline dated November 2019 ("VS Stock  Awards  2020"); the vesting 
period ends at the end of the day on which the preliminary  results for the fiscal year are 
published in the calendar year 2023.
2. Stock Entitlements  Granted to Other Beneficiaries
2.1. Siemens Stock Awards, Tranche 2017, which is subject to the guideline dated November 
2016 ("MA  Stock Awards 2017"); the vesting period ends at the end of the day on which 
the preliminary results for the  fiscal  year are  published in  the calendar  year 2020.
2.2. Siemens Stock Awards, Tranche 2018, which is subject to the guideline dated November 
2017 ("MA  Stock Awards 2018"); the vesting period ends at the end of the day on which 
the preliminary results for the  fiscal  year are  published in  the calendar  year 2021.
2.3. Siemens Stock Awards, Tranche 2019, which is subject to the guideline dated November 
2018 ("MA  Stock Awards 2019"); the vesting period ends at the end of the day on which 
the preliminary results for the  fiscal  year are  published in  the calendar  year 2022.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  11.1 to the Spin-off  and Transfer  Agreement
22.4. Siemens Stock Awards, Tranche  2020, which is subject to the guideline dated December 
2019 ("MA  Stock Awards 2020"); the vesting period ends at the end of the day on which 
the preliminary results for the  fiscal  year are  published in  the calendar  year 2023.
2.5. Siemens Stock Awards 2017 (quarterly  special allocation), which  are subject to the terms 
and conditions of November 2016 ("MA Stock Awards SZ 2017"); the vesting period 
ends at the end of the day on which the results for the quarter preceding the fourth 
anniversary of the  relevant allocation are published.
2.6. Siemens Stock Awards 2018 (quarterly  special allocation), which  are subject to the terms 
and conditions of November 2017 ("MA Stock Awards SZ 2018"); the vesting period 
ends at the end of the day on which the results for the quarter preceding the fourth 
anniversary of the  relevant allocation are published.
2.7. Siemens Stock Awards 2019 (quarterly  special allocation), which  are subject to the terms 
and conditions of November 2018 ("MA Stock Awards  SZ 2019/1 "); the vesting period  
ends at the end of the day on which the results for the quarter preceding the fourth 
anniversary of the  relevant allocation are published.
2.8. Siemens Stock Awards 2019 (quarterly  special allocation), which  are subject to the terms 
and conditions  of May 2019 ("MA Stock Awards  SZ 2019/2"); the vesting period ends at 
the end of the day on which the results for the quarter preceding the fourth anniversary  of 
the relevant allocation are published.
2.9. Siemens Stock Awards 2020 (quarterly  special allocation), which  are subject to the terms 
and conditions of November 2019 ("MA Stock Awards SZ 2020"); the vesting period 
ends at the end of the day on which the results for the quarter preceding the fourth 
anniversary of the  relevant allocation are published.
2.10. Hi-Tech Siemens Stock Awards  – Mendix (performance-oriented), which are subject to 
the guideline dated November 2018 ("MA  Hi-Tech  Mendix  (performance-oriented)"); 
the vesting period ends at the end of the day on which  the preliminary results  for the fiscal 
year are published in the third  calendar  year after  the allocation date.
2.11. Hi-Tech Siemens Stock Awards – Mendix, which are subject to the terms and conditions  
of November 2018 ("MA Hi-Tech Mendix");  the vesting period ends at the end of the day 
on which the preliminary results for the fiscal year are published in the third calendar  year 
after the allocation date.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  11.1 to the Spin-off  and Transfer  Agreement
32.12. Hi-Tech Siemens  Stock  Awards, Tranche 2019 (Siemens Hi-Tech Business), which is 
subject to the terms  and conditions of November 2018 ("MA Hi-Tech Business 2019"), to 
the extent not yet fulfilled; the vesting period ends at the end of the day on which the 
preliminary results of the fiscal  year are published, regarding the first quarter of the 
Siemens Stock Awards, in the first calendar  year, regarding the second quarter, in the 
second calendar year, regarding  the third quarter, in the third calendar  year,  and, regarding  
the fourth quarter,  in the fourth calendar year after  the relevant commitment.
2.13. Hi-Tech Siemens  Stock  Awards, Tranche 2020 (Siemens Hi-Tech Business), which is 
subject to the terms and conditions  of November 2019 ("MA Hi-Tech Business 2020"); 
the vesting period  ends at the end of the day on which the preliminary  results  of the fiscal 
year are published, regarding  the first quarter of the Siemens Stock Awards, in the first 
calendar year, regarding the second quarter,  in the second  calendar year,  regarding the third 
quarter, in the third calendar year, and, regarding the fourth quarter, in the fourth calendar 
year after the relevant commitment.
2.14. Siemens Group  Share Matching  Plan, Tranche 2018, which  is subject  to the terms and 
conditions of the Plan in the version  of 13 November 2017 ("SMP  2018"); the holding 
period ends at  the end of 31 January  2021.
2.15. Siemens Group  Share Matching  Plan, Tranche 2019, which  is subject  to the terms and 
conditions of the Plan in the version  of 13 November 2017 ("SMP  2019"); the holding 
period ends at  the end of 31 January  2022.
2.16. Siemens Group  Share Matching  Plan, Tranche 2020, which  is subject  to the terms and 
conditions of the Plan in the version  of 13 November 2017 ("SMP  2020"); the holding 
period ends at  the end of 31 January  2023.
2.17. Siemens Group Base Share Program,  Tranche 2018, which  is subject  to the terms and 
conditions of the Plan in the version  of 14 November 2016 ("BAP 2018"); the holding 
period ends in accordance with  the SMP 2018.
2.18. Siemens Group Base Share Program,  Tranche 2019, which  is subject  to the terms and 
conditions of the Plan in the version  of 14 November 2016 ("BAP 2019"); the holding 
period ends in accordance with  the SMP 2019.
2.19. Siemens Group Base Share Program,  Tranche 2020, which  is subject  to the terms and 
conditions of the Plan in the version  of 14 November 2016 ("BAP 2020"); the holding 
period ends in accordance with  the SMP 2020.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  11.1 to the Spin-off  and Transfer  Agreement
42.20. Jubilee shares pursuant to the jubilee agreement of Siemens AG (CHR  Circular no. 
004/2009 and 1st amendment  to the CHR Circular  no. 004/09)  of 9 October 2008 and 
19 February 2009.
2.21. Jubilee shares for the top management  (Direktionskreis) and senior  management (Oberer 
Führungskreis) contract groups in accordance  with the jubilee  agreement of Siemens AG 
(CD E Circular  no. 07/2010  / CHR  Communication)  of 21 December 2009 and 
corresponding agreements for other companies of the Siemens Group.  Jubilee shares 
pursuant to the jubilee agreement  of Siemens AG (CHR Circular no. 004/2009  and 1st 
amendment to  the CHR  Circular no. 004/09) of 9 October 2008 and  19 February 2009.
2.22. Siemens Group UK Share  Incentive  Plan ("UK Plan "); the relevant holding period is three 
years of the allocation  of the matching shares.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  11.2.1 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
1Adjustment of Stock Entitlements (Aktienzusagen) Granted to Beneficiaries who Continue  
to be Employed in the Siemens Group  After the Spin-off Takes  Effect or who are Otherwise 
not Covered by § 11.2.2
The Stock Entitlements  listed in Annex 11.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement granted  to 
Beneficiaries who continue to be employed in the Siemens  Group  after the spin-off  takes  effect  or 
who are otherwise not covered by Section 11.2.2 will be adjusted as follows pursuant to 
Sections 23, 125, 133 of the German Transformation Act (Umwandlungsgesetz, "UmwG")  in 
conjunction with any provisions that are applicable  in the case of a spin-off and other provisions 
applicable under the relevant Stock Entitlements:  
1. Upon the Stock  Entitlements becoming  due (regularly  or early), the Beneficiary will 
receive, in addition to the number of shares  in Siemens AG to which the Beneficiary has a 
claim when the entitlements  become due (even if this claim  is compensated in cash under  
a discretionary decision  or under regular terms)  (the "Due Siemens Shares"),  in each case 
a cash payment for the notional  number  of shares of Siemens  Energy  AG which results  
from the ratio established in § 10.1 of the Spin-off  and Transfer Agreement based  on the 
number of Due Siemens Shares.  The amount of the cash payment will be determined  in 
accordance with the underlying provisions  of the relevant Stock  Entitlement  that would 
apply to a cash compensation or a cash settlement of Due Siemens Shares, subject to the 
proviso that the relevant price of the shares  of Siemens AG shall be replaced by the 
prevailing stock exchange price of the shares  of Siemens Energy AG. If, according to the 
underlying provisions of a Stock  Entitlement,  a cash payment is made to compensate for 
an additional notional number  of Siemens shares in lieu of delivering Due Siemens Shares 
upon a specific target achievement level being exceeded, that notional number of Siemens 
shares will be added  to the number  of Due Siemens  Shares for the purpose of determining 
the notional number of shares of  Siemens Energy  AG. 
2. The provision in no. 1 also applies  in the event that application of the adjustment provision  
in no. 1 results in a claim for cash payment for a (notional) fractional right to shares in 
Siemens Energy  AG. The amount of the cash payment corresponds  to the (commercially  
rounded) portion of the amount of the cash payment that results  under no. 1 for an entire 
share in Siemens Energy  AG corresponding  to the portion of the (commercially rounded)  
fractional right to a  share in Siemens Energy AG.
3. To the extent that the underlying  provisions of the Stock Entitlements, for example  for the 
SMP 2018, require an investment in shares  of Siemens  AG, no adjustment  will be made 
with respect to this investment.  To the extent that, after the spin-off has taken  effect,  the 
Beneficiaries receive  shares  of Siemens Energy AG as a result  of such investment or on 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  11.2.1 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
2the basis of any other investment in shares in Siemens AG, these shares in Siemens  Energy 
AG will not be subject  to a holding obligation.
4. If the number  of shares to be granted or, as the case may be, the specific claim under a 
Stock Entitlement  based  on the underlying provisions of a Stock Entitlement, for example 
the MA Stock Awards 2017, depends on achieving  certain targets  and the target  
achievement is influenced, at least partially, by how the stock  exchange price of the shares  
of Siemens AG or the relative  yield on shares develops during  the vesting period of the 
relevant Stock Entitlement,  after expiration of the relevant  vesting period, an adjustment  
of the parameters for the target achievement will be made  to the extent necessary in order  
to ensure equivalence among the Stock Entitlements (within the meaning of Sections 23, 
125 UmwG) for  the Beneficiaries before  and after  the spin-off.
5. The above  provisions do not apply to Stock Entitlements for jubilee shares, i.e., no 
adjustment will be made  for these  Stock Entitlements.
6. Under the UK Plan, shares in Siemens AG acquired by the Beneficiaries  ("Investment 
Shares") as well as shares  transferred  in this context by the relevant  company  ("Matching 
Shares") and/or shares  acquired  by re-investment of dividends ("Dividend Shares ") will 
be held by a trustee  on behalf  of the Beneficiaries (as beneficial owners)  in accordance 
with the provisions under the UK Plan. Therefore, the Beneficiaries will receive – as with 
all other  Siemens shareholders  – shares  in Siemens Energy AG for their Investment Shares, 
Matching Shares and any Dividend  Shares in the ratio specified in § 10.1 of the Spin-off 
and Transfer Agreement.  These shares in Siemens Energy AG will be subject to the same  
provisions under  the UK Plan, for example as regards  holding periods, that apply to the 
relevant Investment Shares, Matching  Shares and/or Dividend Shares that constitute  the 
bases for receiving the shares  in Siemens Energy AG. No further adjustment going  beyond 
the provision set forth in the  UK Plan will be made.
7. Aside from this, the other underlying  provisions of the Stock  Entitlements remain  
unaffected by the spin-off taking  effect.  This also applies to any reservations provided  for 
in the provisions of the Stock Entitlements  relating to settling or compensating claims for 
shares in Siemens AG in cash.
8. An adjustment under the above  provisions does not take place  due to the spin-off to the 
extent that an adjustment has been excluded or an agreement to the contrary has been made 
in the individual case or if an adjustment is not made in light of regulatory requirements in 
jurisdictions outside of Germany. 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  11.2.1 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
3The adjustments described above  will be made  in each case by the company that is the obligor  
under the relevant Stock Entitlements  upon the spin-off taking  effect.  Agreements made between 
companies of the Siemens Group (including the future Siemens Energy  Group)  about the technical 
processing of adjustments  or the internal allocation  of the burden will remain unaffected. 
The above adjustments apply accordingly in the event that further  stock entitlements  are granted 
in the period between  the signing date of the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement  and the effective 
date of the spin-off  which  are comparable in terms  of their structure with the Stock  Entitlements  
specified in Annex  11.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement and do not provide for any special 
arrangements applicable in the event of this spin-off. 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  11.2.2 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
1Adjustment of the Rights Under Stock Entitlements Granted  to Members of Corporate 
Bodies and Employees of the Future Siemens Energy Group  who Leave the Siemens Group 
upon the Spin-off Taking Effect
The Stock Entitlements granted to Beneficiaries  in the future  Siemens Energy Group  who leave 
the Siemens Group upon the spin-off taking effect  as listed  in Annex 11.1 to the Spin-off and 
Transfer Agreement  will be compensated  as follows in accordance with Sections 23, 125 of the 
German Transformation Act (Umwandlungsgesetz, "UmwG")  in conjunction with the provisions 
of the relevant Stock Entitlements that are applicable in the case of a spin-off and/or the departure 
from the Siemens Group:  
1. The claims of the Beneficiaries under the Stock Entitlements cease to exist upon the spin-
off taking effect  and will be compensated or settled in cash after the spin-off has taken  
effect in accordance with nos.  2 to 4 below.
2. As regards the MA-Stock-Awards-2017, MA-Stock-Awards-2018, MA-Stock-Awards-
2019, MA-Stock-Awards-2020,  MA-Stock-Awards-SZ-2017, MA-Stock-Awards-SZ-
2018, MA-Stock-Awards-SZ-2019/1,  MA-Stock-Awards-SZ-2019/2,  MA-Stock-Awards-
SZ-2020, MA-Hi-Tech-Mendix (performance-oriented),  MA-Hi-Tech-Mendix,  MA-Hi-
Tech-Business-2019 and  MA-Hi-Tech-Business-2020, the following applies: 
The amount of the cash payment  for each Siemens Stock  Award corresponds  to the closing 
price of the Siemens shares in Xetra trading  on the closing date of the spin-off, less the 
present value  of the dividend  expected  to be distributed up until the end of the relevant 
vesting period.
3. As regards SMP-2018, SMP-2019,  SMP-2020, BAP-2018, BAP-2019,  BAP-2020, the 
following applies: 
The amount of the cash compensation  for each matching  share corresponds to the portion 
of the closing price of the Siemens shares in Xetra  trading on the closing date of the spin-
off equal to the proportion that the holding period up until the closing date of the spin-off 
bears to the  entire duration  of the relevant holding period.
4. As regards the  UK Plan, the following applies: 
After the initial listing  of Siemens Energy AG on the stock exchange, the UK Plan will be 
dissolved as soon as possible in accordance with the applicable provisions. All the shares 
(i.e., investment  shares,  matching shares and, if applicable, dividend shares, as well as the 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  11.2.2 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
2relevant shares in Siemens Energy  AG that the Beneficiaries – as well as all other  
shareholders of Siemens  AG – receive with respect to their investment shares, matching 
shares and, if applicable, dividend shares) which are held by the trustee on behalf  of the 
Beneficiaries are either to be transferred to the relevant Beneficiary or to be sold for the 
account of the relevant  Beneficiary. The number of matching shares will not be reduced 
irrespective of  the early termination of the  UK Plan. 
For the group of persons  that is the subject of this Annex, there are no Stock  Entitlements relating 
to Siemens  jubilee  shares for the time after the spin-off has taken effect.  No adjustments need to 
be made to the VS-Stock-Awards-2017, VS-Stock-Awards-2018, VS-Stock-Awards-2019, VS-
Stock-Awards-2020 as no managing board member of Siemens AG will leave  the Siemens Group  
upon the spin-off taking  effect. 
No settlement or compensation  payment  pursuant  to the above provisions will be made to the 
extent that such payment has been  excluded or an agreement to the contrary  has been made in the 
individual case. Taxes and duties payable on the cash settlement  or the cash compensation  are to 
be borne  by the Beneficiary  subject to the provisions of  the Stock Entitlements.
The settlement and compensation payments  described above will be made  in each case by the 
company that is the obligor under the relevant  Stock Entitlements upon the spin-off taking effect.  
Agreements made between companies of the Siemens Group (including the future Siemens Energy 
AG Group) about the technical processing  of adjustments or the internal allocation of the burden 
will remain unaffected.
The above adjustments apply accordingly in the event that further  stock entitlements  are granted 
in the period between  the signing date of the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement  and the effective 
date of the spin-off  which  are comparable in terms  of their structure with the Stock  Entitlements  
specified in Annex 11.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement, provided that they do not include 
any special  arrangements applicable in the event of this spin-off.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
1ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
ofSiemens Energy AG
Updated as of October  2020
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
2ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
of
Siemens Energy AG
I.
GENERAL  PROVISIONS
§ 1
Company Name and Registered Office
(1) The name of the Company is Siemens  Energy  AG.
(2) The Company has its registered office  in Munich.
§ 2
Object of the Company
(1) The object of the Company is to manufacture, supply, operate, distribute and trade in 
products, systems, facilities and solutions and to render  maintenance, repair and other 
services, as well as research and development, in the areas of energy production, 
transfer, distribution  and storage, in the areas  of oil and gas across  all areas of 
production, in the areas of decarbonization, sector coupling, hydrogen  solutions and 
other renewable and non-renewable  energy sources as well as the adjacent  fields  of 
activity such as electrical  engineering,  automation,  electronics, precision mechanics and 
mechanical engineering. The Company can operate  in the context of these activities in 
all information technology fields, including  electronic data processing and transfer, 
software, platforms and self-learning systems, and render related services. Moreover, 
the Company, in particular through its consolidated subsidiaries, can operate  in the 
financial sector and participate  directly or indirectly in enterprises and companies of any 
type, also in managing its own assets. Finally, the Company  may engage in business  of 
any kind and take any and all measures related  to, or which seem  to be directly  or 
indirectly useful in promoting, the above activities.
(2) The Company  may realize its object  itself or through  consolidated  subsidiaries or 
associated companies  (including  joint ventures). It can confine  itself to some  of the 
activities specified in subsection 1. The Company can set up associated  companies,  
acquire participating interests  and change  them structurally,  bring them under uniform  
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
3control or may limit itself to managing the participating interest, sell participating  interests 
and also conclude enterprise and cooperation agreements of any kind.
§ 3
Publications  by Notice  and Notifications
(1) Notices of the Company shall be published in the German Federal Gazette 
(Bundesanzeiger).  If another form of notice should  be mandatorily required, such  form 
shall replace the notice in the German Federal Gazette.
(2) Insofar as legally permitted, notifications for the Company’s shareholders may also be 
transmitted via remote data transmission. 
II.
Capital Stock and Shares
§ 4
Capital Stock and Shares
(1) The capital  stock  of the Company amounts to EUR 726,645,193 (in words: seven 
hundred twenty-six million six hundred forty-five thousand one hundred  ninety-three 
Euro).
(2) The capital stock is divided into 726,645,193  shares of no par value.  The shares shall be 
registered in the names  of the holders. For purposes of recording the shares in the 
Company’s share  register,  the Company’s shareholders  shall provide all information as 
legally required.
(3) The right of shareholders  to have their ownership interests  evidenced by document shall 
be excluded, unless such evidence is required by law or under the regulations  of a stock 
exchange on which the shares  are listed. The Company  is entitled to issue  share 
certificates, whether as individual or collective shares,  as well as dividend coupons  and 
renewal certificates.  The right of shareholders to receive  dividend  coupons  and renewal 
certificates shall be excluded.
(4) The Managing  Board shall decide  on the form and content  of share certificates  and any 
dividend coupons or renewal certificates.  The same  shall apply to corporate bonds  and 
interest warrants.
(5) The Managing Board is authorized to increase the capital stock  until the end of 31 July 
2025, with the approval  of the Supervisory Board, by up to EUR 363.322.596 nominal 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
4through the issuance of up to 363.322.596 no-par value shares registered in the name of 
the holders against contributions in cash and/or in kind. The authorization may be used 
once or multiple  times, and all at once or in installments. The new shares shall 
participate in profits  from the beginning of the fiscal  year in which  they have been  issued. 
To the extent  permitted  by law, the Managing Board, with the approval of the 
Supervisory Board,  can stipulate in deviation from the above and Section 60 (2) of the 
German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) that the new shares shall participate  in 
profits from the beginning  of a fiscal  year that has already ended and for which  no 
resolution on appropriation  of the net income has been  adopted by the Annual 
Shareholders’ Meeting at the time the shares are issued. With the approval of the 
Supervisory Board, the Managing Board shall be authorized to determine  the further 
details of the share  rights and the conditions of the issuance of shares (Authorized 
Capital 2020).  The new shares  must generally be offered to the shareholders  for 
subscription; they can also be assumed by credit  institutions or enterprises within the 
meaning of Section  186 (5) sentence 1 of the German Stock  Corporation  Act 
(Aktiengesetz) with the obligation that they must be offered to the shareholders for 
subscription. However, with the approval  of the Supervisory Board, the Managing Board 
is authorized to exclude shareholders’  subscription rights in the event of capital 
increases against  contributions in cash:
- in order to grant  shares  to the employees of the Company and its affiliates 
(employee shares). Such new shares can also be issued through  a credit  institute 
or a company within the meaning of Section 53 (1) sentence 1 or Section 53b (1) 
sentence 1, or Section  53b (7) of the Banking Act (Kreditwesengesetz),  which at 
first assumes the shares  for the exclusive offer to employees  of the Company 
and its affiliates. As far as permitted by law, the employee shares  may also be 
issued by covering  the contribution to be made for them from the part of the 
annual net profit  which the Managing  Board and the Supervisory Board  are 
permitted to incorporate into other retained  earnings pursuant  to Section 58 (2) of 
the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz),
- in as far as this is necessary for fractional amounts resulting from the subscription 
ratio,
- in order to grant holders/creditors of conversion or option rights  on the 
Company’s shares  or of respective conversion obligations from bonds issued or 
guaranteed by the Company or any of its consolidated  subsidiaries subscription  
rights as compensation  against  effects  of dilution  to the extent to which  they 
would be entitled  upon exercising such conversion  or option  rights  or fulfilling 
such conversion  obligations,
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
5- provided  that the issue price  of the new shares is not significantly lower than the 
stock exchange  price of the Company’s  listed shares.  The calculated  proportion  
of the capital stock  to be allocated to the shares  issued in accordance with 
Section 186 (3) sentence  4 of the German Stock Corporation  Act (Aktiengesetz) 
against contributions in cash under exclusion of the subscription  rights must not 
exceed 10 % of the capital stock. Applicable in this case  is the capital stock at the 
time this authorization becomes  effective or, if this amount is lower, at the time at 
which this authorization is used.  This limit shall include shares  issued or divested  
in direct or mutatis mutandis application  of these provisions during the term of 
this authorization  up to the time of it being  used. Likewise included are shares 
that have been  issued or granted  or are to be issued  or granted  on the basis  of a 
convertible bond  or warrant bond  issued during  the term of this authorization, with 
shareholders’ subscription  rights excluded in accordance with Section  186 (3) 
sentence 4 of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz ),
- through  the implementation of a so-called share  dividend, in which the 
shareholders are given the opportunity  to contribute to the Company their 
dividend claim  (either entirely  or partially) as a contribution  in kind in exchange for 
the grant  of new shares  from the Authorized Capital 2020.
The calculated proportion of capital stock to be allocated to the shares issued under  
exclusion of the shareholder  subscription  rights may not exceed  EUR 72.664.519  
nominal. Included in the calculation of this capital  limit shall be the capital stock that is 
allocated to those new shares, which for the duration of this authorization under 
exclusion of subscription rights  are issued or are to be issued on the basis of 
conversion/option rights or conversion obligations  under bonds,  to the extent that such 
bonds were issued under exclusion of shareholder  subscription rights during the term of 
the authorization.
(6) The capital stock is conditionally increased by up to EUR 72.664.519 (Conditional 
Capital 2020). The conditional capital  increase  shall be implemented  through  issue of up 
to 72.664.519  no-par value shares registered in the name of the holders only insofar  as 
the holders and/or creditors of convertible  bonds or of option warrants  from option  
bonds, which are issued by Siemens Energy  AG or one of its consolidated subsidiaries  
up until the end of 31. July 2025  on the basis of the authorization of the Managing Board 
through the General Meeting of [] 2020, exercise  their conversion/option  rights  or 
perform their conversion obligation  and no other forms  of fulfillment are used to service 
these rights. The issue of the new shares shall be made at the conversion/option  prices 
to be determined, subject to the above  authorization resolution, in the terms and 
conditions of the bonds or options. The Managing Board  is authorized to decide on the 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
6further details of the implementation of the conditional capital increase. The issued 
shares shall participate  in profits from the beginning of the fiscal  year in which they have 
been issued; to the extent permitted by law, the Managing  Board  can stipulate in 
deviation from the above and Section 60 (2) of the German  Stock Corporation  Act 
(Aktiengesetz) that the new shares shall participate in profits  from the beginning of a 
fiscal year that has already ended.
III.
Managing Board
§ 5
Composition  and Rules of Procedure
(1) The Managing Board  consists of several  members. The Supervisory Board shall 
determine the number of Managing  Board members.
(2) The Supervisory Board may appoint a chairman as well as a deputy chairman of the 
Managing Board.
(3) The Supervisory Board shall appoint the Managing Board members, conclude their 
employment contracts,  revoke  such appointments and modify and terminate the 
employment contracts. The Supervisory Board shall decide  on the distribution  of 
responsibilities among the Managing Board members  and may establish rules  of 
procedure for the Managing  Board. Should the Managing  Board pass its own rules  of 
procedure, these shall require the Supervisory Board’s  approval.
§ 6
Management and Representation of the Company
(1) The Managing Board shall be responsible for the management of the Company. In 
relation to the Company, the Managing Board members shall comply  with the restrictions  
imposed by the General Meeting, the Articles of Association,  the Supervisory Board and 
the Rules of Procedure with regard to the management  powers and within the framework  
of the statutory rules.
(2) The Company is legally represented by two Managing Board members  or one Managing 
Board member acting jointly with a holder of commercial power  of representation 
(Prokurist).  The Managing Board members shall be released from the prohibition  of 
multiple representation pursuant to Section 181 second alternative of the German  Civil 
Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch); Section  112 German  Stock  Corporation Act 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
7(Aktiengesetz) shall remain unaffected. Moreover,  the Company shall be represented by 
holders of commercial power of representation or other  authorized signatories as 
determined in more  detail by the Managing  Board.
IV.
SUPERVISORY  BOARD
§ 7
Composition, Elections, Term of Office
(1) The Supervisory Board shall have twenty members, ten elected by the Shareholders’ 
Meeting, and ten elected  in accordance  with the provisions of the German 
Codetermination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz).
(2) Unless otherwise specified at the time of their election, the term of office of the members  
of the Supervisory Board shall expire at the close  of that Shareholders’ Meeting  which  is 
called upon  to ratify the acts of the Supervisory  Board for the fourth fiscal year after the 
beginning of their term of office.  From  this calculation shall be excluded the fiscal year 
during which such term of office  begins.  An election to replace a member that leaves the 
Supervisory Board prior to the expiry  of his or her term of office  shall – unless otherwise 
specified at the time of the election - continue for the remainder  of the term of office of 
the member who has left the Supervisory Board.  The same shall apply should  a 
replacement election become  necessary because the original election was contested.
(3) The General Meeting  may, simultaneously with the election of the Supervisory Board  
members, appoint replacement  members, who shall replace, in a sequence to be 
determined upon  the election, any Supervisory Board  members  of the shareholders who 
leave office prematurely or due to a contestation of the election. If a replacement  
member replaces a member who has left the Supervisory Board, his or her office shall 
expire at the end of the General Meeting during which a replacement election pursuant 
to § 7 (2) above  takes place, at the latest, however,  upon  expiry of the term of office of 
the Supervisory Board  member who has left. Should the replacement  member  who has 
left office after a replacement election  have been appointed as a replacement member 
for several Supervisory Board members,  his or her status as a replacement  member 
shall be renewed.  The election of replacement members with respect  to the Supervisory 
Board members  of the employees  shall occur pursuant  to the German  Codetermination 
Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz).
(4) Any Supervisory Board  member and replacement member may resign his or her office,  
also without cause,  by giving one month’s written notice to the chairman  of the 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
8Supervisory Board - or, if the chairman wishes to resign, to his or her deputy pursuant  to 
§ 8 (1) 1 below. The chairman or, if the Chairman wishes  to resign, the deputy chairman, 
shall be free to reduce the period of notice or waive compliance with the period of notice. 
§ 8
Chairman and Deputy Chairman
(1) From among  its members, the Supervisory  Board shall elect  in accordance with the 
German Codetermination  Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz)  a chairman and a deputy 
chairman. The Supervisory  Board may elect one or several other deputy chairmen and 
Section 27 of the German Codetermination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz) does not apply 
to such election.  The election should  take place after the General Meeting during which  
the Supervisory Board members to be elected by the General Meeting were  newly 
elected; a separate invitation to this meeting is not required.
(2) The term of office of the chairman and the deputy chairman shall, unless a shorter period 
of office is determined at the time of the election, correspond to their term of office as 
members of the Supervisory Board.
(3) Should  the chairman or the deputy  chairman leave office prematurely, a new election for 
such position shall take place immediately. A revocation of the election of the chairman 
or the deputy  chairman is only permitted  for sufficient cause. The ongoing inability of the 
chairman or the deputy  chairman to discharge the duties of office shall be deemed to 
constitute sufficient cause. For the revocation of the election of the chairman or the 
deputy chairman, the relevant provisions of the German  Codetermination Act 
(Mitbestimmungsgesetz) with respect to their election are accordingly applicable. 
(4) A deputy chairman performing the duties of the chairman when  the latter  is unable  to act 
shall be vested with all the powers  of the chairman, except for the second vote accorded 
to the chairman pursuant to the German Codetermination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz) 
or these Articles of Association.
(5) Declarations  by the Supervisory  Board shall be made on behalf of the Supervisory Board 
by the chairman or, if he or she is unable to act, by the deputy  chairman. The chairman 
or, if he or she is unable to act, the deputy chairman  shall have the right to accept 
declarations on behalf of the Supervisory Board.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
9§ 9
Rights and Duties  of Supervisory Board
(1) The Supervisory Board shall have all rights and duties assigned  to it by law and by these 
Articles of Association.
(2) The Supervisory Board shall determine in the rules  of procedure for the Managing Board 
or for the Supervisory Board or by a resolution that specific transactions or types of 
transactions are only permitted with the Supervisory Board’s  approval.
(3) The Supervisory Board may grant approval in advance  for a certain group of 
transactions, subject to revocation, in general or in case that the relevant  individual  
transaction satisfies certain requirements.
(4) The Supervisory  Board may pass resolutions on amendments to the Articles  of 
Association that only relate to the wording.
(5) The Managing Board shall continuously  report to the Supervisory Board to the extent 
provided for by law. In addition  to this, the Supervisory Board shall at all times be free to 
request a report on the Company’s affairs, its legal and business relationships  with 
affiliates and business-related  transactions by affiliated companies that may have 
significant impact on the Company’s situation.
§ 10
Rules  of Procedure, Delegation, Committees
(1) The Supervisory  Board shall determine its own rules of procedure, subject to the 
statutory requirements and the provisions  of these Articles of Association.  
(2) Subject to the statutory provisions, the Supervisory Board shall may establish  
committees. To the extent permitted  by law or these Articles of Association, the 
Supervisory Board may delegate  duties incumbent upon  it as well as decision powers 
and rights to its chairman, to individual  members or to committees established from 
among its members. The composition, decision  powers and procedures of the 
committees shall be determined by the Supervisory  Board.
(3) Directly following the election  of the chairman and his or her deputy,  the Supervisory 
Board shall establish a committee pursuant to § 27 (3) of the German  Codetermination 
Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz), the membership of which shall consist  of the chairman, his 
or her deputy,  one Supervisory Board member representing  the employees and one 
Supervisory Board member representing the shareholders elected with a majority of the 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
10votes. This committee  shall be in charge  of the duty set forth in Section 31 (3) 
sentence 1 of the German Codetermination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz).
§ 11
Meetings  and Resolutions of the Supervisory Board
(1) Meetings of the Supervisory Board shall be called by the Chairman with a notice period 
of fourteen  days,  whereby the day of dispatching the invitation and the day of the 
meeting are not included in the calculation. This notice period may be reduced in urgent 
cases. Meetings may be called in writing, orally, by telephone, telefax, e-mail or other 
common means  of communication. Furthermore, the statutory provisions and the rules of 
procedure for the Supervisory  Board shall apply with regard  to the calling of Supervisory 
Board meetings.
(2) The Chairman  shall chair  the Supervisory Board meetings.
(3) To constitute  a quorum for any resolution it shall be necessary that at least  half of the 
members of which  it has to consist shall participate in the resolution. For the purposes of 
the previous sentence, Supervisory Board members who are absent and cause a written 
vote (including  votes transmitted by e-mail  or telefax) to be handed over by a 
Supervisory Board member who is personally present, as well as Supervisory  Board 
members who vote pursuant to § 11 (4) below and members  who abstain from voting 
shall be considered to have taken  part in a resolution. A resolution on an issue  on the 
agenda that was not included in the invitation may only be passed  if none of the 
Supervisory Board members objects  to the resolution.
(4) Meetings conducted  and resolutions  passed in writing, orally, by telephone, by telefax, 
by e-mail or via other common means  of communication or as a combination of such 
forms of communication  as well as the participation  of individual  Supervisory Board 
members in meetings and resolutions  by connection  via telephone or electronic means 
of communication (in particular video  transmission) shall be permitted if the chairman of 
the Supervisory Board so decides  for an individual  case,  subject to an adequate period 
of notice. The option of casting a vote in writing  pursuant  to § 11 (3) above shall remain  
unaffected.
(5) Resolutions shall be passed with a simple  majority of the votes  cast, except if a deviating 
majority is mandatorily provided  for by law. For this purpose, abstentions shall not count 
as votes cast. In the event of a tie on a given  vote, the Supervisory Board’s chairman 
shall be given two votes if a second  vote on the same matter  once more results in a tie. 
Section 108 (3) of the German Stock Corporation  Act (Aktiengesetz ) shall also be 
applicable to the giving  of the second  vote.  
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
11(6) Minutes shall be prepared  of the Supervisory Board meetings and resolutions (for 
purposes of evidence, not as a prerequisite for their effectiveness),  and shall be signed  
by the minute-keeper, the chairman  of the meeting or, if a resolution is taken outside a 
meeting, by the Supervisory  Board  chairman.
§ 12
Compensation
(1) The members of the Supervisory Board shall receive a fixed  basic remuneration  of 
EUR 120,000  for each fiscal year. This basic remuneration is increased for the chairman 
of the Supervisory Board by an additional EUR 120,000 and for each  deputy chairman 
by EUR 60,000 for each fiscal year.
(2) For their services  on the Supervisory  Board committees, additional compensation shall 
be paid for each fiscal  year as follows:
(a) to the chairman of the Audit Committee and the chairman of the 
Chairman’s Committee (Präsidium ): EUR 120,000; to each other member 
of the Audit  Committee and of the Chairman’s  Committee: EUR  60,000;
(b) to the chairman  of the Innovation and Finance Committee EUR 70,000 
and to each other  member of the Innovation and Finance  Committee EUR 
40,000.
To the extent that an ongoing, independent  committee is formed which  provides 
resolutions relating to transactions with related persons,  for each fiscal year the 
chairman of such committee shall additionally receive EUR 70,000 and each member of 
the committee shall additionally receive  EUR 40,000. 
(3) In the case of changes to the Supervisory Board or its committees  within the course of a 
year, the remuneration  shall be calculated pro rata temporis, rounding  up to full months.
(4) The remuneration shall be due for payment after the General Meeting that accepts, or 
decides on the approval of, the annual financial statements  for the prior fiscal  year.   
(5) In addition to the above, the Supervisory Board members shall be paid an attendance 
fee amounting to EUR  1,500 for each Supervisory Board meeting and committee  
meeting which they attend; in the case of several  meetings which occur on the same  
day, the attendance fee shall not exceed  EUR  3,000 per day. Attendance shall also 
include attendance via telephone or other  means  of electronic communication  (in 
particular video transmission). The attendance fee for the meetings  which  have been  
held in a given quarter shall be paid within a month  of the end of each quarter.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
12(6) The Supervisory Board members shall be included into a D&O liability  insurance for 
board members and certain  employees of the Siemens Energy Group  taken out by the 
Company in the interests  of the Company, in as far as such insurance has been  taken 
out. The premiums shall be paid by the Company. Moreover, the Company shall 
reimburse all Supervisory  Board members  for their expenses and value added  tax levied 
on their salaries.
V.
General  Meeting
§ 13
Annual General Meeting, Calling  an Annual General Meeting
(1) An Annual  General Meeting of the shareholders shall be held during the first eight 
months of each fiscal  year.
(2) The General Meeting shall be called by the Managing  Board, subject  to the statutory 
rights to call a General Meeting  held by the Supervisory Board and a minority of the 
shareholders. It shall, at the choice  of the body calling the General Meeting, take place 
at the Company’s registered  place  of business,  at the registered office of a German 
stock exchange, or in a German city with more than 100,000 residents. 
(3) General Meetings  shall be called at least with the minimum notice period required by 
law. 
§ 14
Attendance and Exercise of Voting Rights
(1) Shareholders who wish to attend  the General  Meeting  or to exercise their voting rights 
must be listed in the Company’s share register and must register for the General 
Meeting. This registration must  be received by the Company at the address  provided for 
this purpose in the invitation  no less than six days prior to the General  Meeting. The 
invitation may provide for a reduced  period to be specified in days. The day of the 
General Meeting and the day of receipt shall not be counted. 
(2) Registration  must be made  in text form (Section 126b  of the German  Civil Code (BGB )) 
or by other  electronic means  to be defined  in detail by the Company, in German or in 
English.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
13(3) Voting rights may be exercised by proxy. Power  of attorney must be granted,  revoked 
and proven to the Company  in text form (Section 126b of the German Civil Code (BGB )), 
except if the invitation provides for a simplified  form.  Details regarding  the granting of 
power of attorney, its revocation  and proof to the Company shall be notified in the 
invitation to the General  Meeting. Section 135 of the German Stock  Corporation  Act 
(Aktiengesetz)   shall remain  unaffected.
(4) The Managing  Board is authorized to decide that shareholders may also participate 
without being present at the venue  and without a proxy,  and that they may exercise all or 
individual rights  entirely or partially  by means  of electronic communication  (electronic 
attendance). The Managing  Board  shall also have the right to pass  rules  regarding the 
scope and process  of attendance  and the exercising of rights pursuant to sentence 1.
(5) The Managing Board is authorized to decide that shareholders may cast their votes in 
writing or by means  of electronic  communication without  attending the General  Meeting 
(postal ballot).  The Managing  Board is also authorized  to pass  rules regarding the scope 
and process of the exercising of rights  pursuant to sentence 1.
§ 15
Chairing the General Meeting
(1) The chairman of the Supervisory  Board shall chair  the General  Meeting; if he or she is 
unable to attend, another  member of the Supervisory  Board appointed  by the chairman 
shall chair  the General Meeting.  If neither the chairman nor another  member  of the 
Supervisory Board appointed by the chairman for this purpose is present,  the chairman 
of the General Meeting shall be elected  by the shareholders’ Supervisory Board 
members who are present.
(2) The chairman of the meeting shall chair the negotiations and manage the proceedings of 
the General Meeting. For this purpose, he or she may use the support of assistants, in 
particular with regard to the right to expel individuals from the premises  or to deny 
access to the premises (Hausrecht). The chairman shall determine the sequence of 
speakers and the treatment of the issues on the agenda,  as well as the form, 
proceedings and other details of voting and may,  to the extent permitted by law, decide 
on the combination of resolution objects that are substantively related into one voting 
item.
(3) The chairman is authorized to impose adequate time limits on speeches and questions.  
He or she may in particular adequately determine restrictions  of speaking  time,  question  
time or combined  speaking and question time, as well as the adequate timeframe for the 
entire proceedings of the General Meeting,  for individual issues  on the agenda and for 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
14individual speakers, at the beginning or during the General Meeting; this in particular 
includes the option of prematurely closing the list of requests to speak and ordering  the 
closing of the debate.
§ 16
Transmission of the General Meeting
The Managing  Board is authorized to permit video  and audio transmission of the General 
Meetings. Details shall be provided for by the Managing Board.
§ 17
Adopting  Resolutions
(1) Each  share confers one vote in the General  Meeting.
(2) The resolutions of the General Meeting require a majority  of the votes cast (simple 
majority of votes), except  if the law or these Articles of Association stipulate  a larger 
majority or further requirements.
VI.
ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND APPROPRIATION  OF PROFITS
§ 18
Fiscal Year
The fiscal year shall start on October  1st of each  year and end on September 30th of the 
following year.
§ 19
Annual Financial Statements and Consolidated Financial  Statements
During the first three  months of a fiscal  year, the Managing Board  shall prepare  the annual 
financial statements and the management  report and, in as far as required by law, the 
consolidated annual  financial statements and the group management report  for the previous 
fiscal year,  and shall present these documents to the Supervisory Board and the auditor without 
undue delay. At the same time, the Managing  Board shall present the Supervisory Board with a 
recommendation which it intends to present to the General Meeting regarding  the appropriation 
of the net profit.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version is  binding  –
Annex 13.1 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
15§ 20
Appropriation  of Profit and Annual  General Meeting
(1) During  the first eight months of each fiscal year, the General Meeting shall pass  a 
resolution on the appropriation of the net profit, the approval of the actions  of the 
members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory  Board and on the appointment of 
the auditors (Annual  General  Meeting) and, in the cases provided for by law, on the 
approval of the annual financial  statements.
(2) The shareholders’ dividends shall depend  on their respective interest in the capital stock.
(3) If the capital  stock is increased,  the dividends for the new shares may be determined in 
deviation of Section 60 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) .
(4) The General Meeting may decide  that the net profits  be appropriated by means  of a 
distribution in kind, instead  of, or in addition to, a cash  dividend. In the resolution on the 
appropriation of the net profit,  the General  Meeting  may allocate  amounts to reserves  or 
carry them forward as profit.
VII.
FINAL  PROVISIONS
§ 21
Other provisions
(1) The capital stock of the Company was provided in the amount of EUR 100,000 by 
means of the transfer  of Kyros 52 GmbH with its registered office in Hanover (Local 
Court Hannover,  HRB 215360,)  in accordance with Sections 190 et seq. German  
Transformation Act (Umwandlungsgesetz ) into the legal form of an AG.
(2) The Company shall bear the costs  of the change  of the legal  form amounting to an 
estimated sum of up to EUR 3,000.
- Convenience  Translation  – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.2 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
1Authorization to Acquire and Use Treasury Shares pursuant to Section 71 (1) No. 8 of the 
German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz, "AktG") and to Exclude  Subscription  and 
Tender Rights
a) The company  is authorized to acquire until the end of 31 July 2025 for any permissible 
purpose treasury shares in an amount of up to 10 % of the capital stock  existing at the time 
this authorization takes effect or – if this amount  is lower – of the capital stock existing  at 
the time the authorization is exercised.  The shares acquired  under  this authorization together 
with other  shares  of the company  already  acquired and still held by the company or which 
are attributable to it pursuant to Sections 71d and 71e AktG, must not, at any time, represent 
more than 10 %  of the relevant  capital  stock.
b) Shares in Siemens  Energy AG ("Siemens Energy Shares ") will be acquired, at the option 
of the managing  board,  (1) by purchase via the stock  exchange, (2) by means of a public 
purchase offer or (3) through a public  offer  to swap  Siemens Energy Shares for shares in a 
listed company  within the meaning  of Section 3 (2) AktG. Offers  pursuant to nos. (2) and 
(3) above may also be made by means of an  invitation  to submit offers.
(1) In the case of acquisition of the Siemens Energy Shares via stock exchange,  the 
purchase price  per Siemens Energy Share (without  ancillary  costs for the acquisition)  
paid by the company on the stock  exchange  must not exceed  the price per Siemens 
Energy Share  determined by the opening auction in Xetra trading (or in a comparable 
successor system) on the stock exchange  trading day by more  than 10 % or fall below 
such price by more  than 20 %.
(2) In the case of acquisition of the Siemens Energy Shares via public  purchase  offer, 
the purchase price  paid per Siemens Energy Share (without ancillary costs for the 
acquisition) must not exceed the average closing  price  per Siemens Energy Share  in 
Xetra trading (or in a comparable  successor system) on the fourth, third and second 
stock exchange  trading day preceding the decision of the managing board on the offer 
or on the acceptance of offers of the shareholders  by more than 10 % or fall below 
such price by more  than 20 %.
(3) In the case of acquisition of the Siemens Energy Shares through a public  offer to 
swap Siemens Energy  Shares for shares  in a listed  company  within the meaning of 
- Convenience  Translation  – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.2 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
2Section 3 (2) AktG ("Swap Shares"), the swap price paid by the company per 
Siemens Energy Share  (in the form of one or several Swap Shares,  any fractional  
shares and any cash component) (without ancillary costs for the acquisition) must  not 
exceed the applicable  value of a Siemens  Energy Share by more than 10 % or fall 
below such value by more than 20 %. The basis for calculating the applicable value 
will in each case be the average closing  price  of each Siemens Energy Share  and of 
each Swap Share in Xetra trading (or in a comparable  successor system) on the 
fourth, third and second stock exchange trading  day preceding the decision of the 
managing board on the offer or on acceptance of the offer of the shareholders. If the 
Swap Shares are not traded in Xetra trading, the applicable closing price will be the 
closing price  on the stock exchange  where there  was the highest trading  volume in 
the Swap Shares in the preceding calendar year  expired.
The managing  board will determine the further details of the relevant acquisition process. If 
the number  of Siemens Energy Shares tendered  or offered for purchase  or swap exceeds the 
total volume  of shares the company  intends  to acquire, the shareholders' tender right may be 
excluded such that the acquisition will be made based on the proportion of the number of 
Siemens Energy Shares  tendered or offered per shareholder. The acquisition process may 
provide for a preferred acquisition  or acceptance respectively of small numbers of up to 150 
Siemens Energy Shares tendered or offered per shareholder as well as a rounding  according 
to commercial principles. 
If, following the publication of an offer, there are deviations  from the price or, as the case 
may be, from a price  range determined  in the context  of the invitation to submit offers  which  
may be significant as regards the success  of the offer, the price  or the price range  may be 
adjusted during the offer  period or until acceptance of the offer. In this case,  the relevant 
10% and 20% thresholds for exceeding or falling below  the relevant price are based on the 
corresponding closing  price  of the Siemens Energy Share or of the Swap  Shares as the case 
may be on the last stock exchange trading  day prior to the final decision by the managing 
board on the adjustment.
c) The managing board is authorized to use the treasury  shares acquired  on the basis of this 
authorization in addition to selling them  for any permissible purpose via the stock exchange 
or by means of an offer  to all shareholders proportionately  according to their shareholding 
and, in particular,  as follows:
- Convenience  Translation  – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.2 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
3(1) The shares can be cancelled without  the cancellation or its implementation  requiring 
any further resolution by the shareholders' meeting. The cancellation  will result in a 
reduction of capital; in this case,  the managing board is authorized to reduce the 
capital stock  by the pro rata amount of the capital stock  attributable to the shares 
cancelled and the supervisory board is authorized to amend the number  of shares and 
the capital stock specified  in the articles of association accordingly.  By decision of 
the managing board, the cancellation may also be implemented in accordance with 
Section 237 (3) no. 3 AktG without a capital reduction  by adjusting  the pro rata 
amount of the remaining  shares  of no par value in the capital  stock of the company 
in accordance with Section 8 (3) AktG. In this event, the managing board is 
authorized to amend  the number  of shares  of no par value in the articles  of 
association.
(2) The shares may be used as part of remuneration and/or employee stock-based 
compensation programs  of the company or its affiliated companies and may be issued 
to persons  who are or were employed  with the company  or any of its affiliated 
companies as well as to members of corporate bodies  of affiliated companies of the 
company. They  may be offered for sale, awarded or transferred to the aforesaid  
persons and members  of corporate bodies (against  consideration or not) provided that 
the employment or service  relationship or membership  must still exist at the time of 
the offer, award  or transfer.
(3) With the approval of the supervisory  board,  they may be sold against cash payment 
if the sales price  is not significantly below  the stock  exchange price of a Siemens 
Energy Share. The notional pro rata amount of the capital stock  attributable to shares  
used in this way must not exceed 10 % of the capital stock. Applicable  in this case is 
the capital stock  at the time the authorization becomes effective or, if this amount is 
lower, at the time when the authorization is used. When  calculating  the 
aforementioned limit, shares have  to be taken  into account that are issued during the 
term of this acquisition authorization  in direct  or analogous application of 
Section 186 (3) sentence  4 AktG until the point in time of its use. Likewise included 
are shares  that are to be issued or granted on the basis of a convertible bond or warrant 
bond issued during the term of this authorization, with shareholders’ subscription 
rights excluded  in accordance  with Section 186 (3) sentence  4 AktG .
- Convenience  Translation  – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.2 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
4(4) The shares can be used to service or secure obligations or rights to acquire Siemens 
Energy Shares specifically  under  or in connection with convertible  bonds  and warrant  
bonds issued by the company  or its group companies.  Furthermore, the managing 
board is authorized  to exclude the subscription right in order to grant 
holders/creditors of conversion or option rights in respect  of shares of the company 
or corresponding  conversion  obligations subscription rights as compensation against  
the effects of dilution in the amount in which  they would  be entitled to such rights  
upon exercising these rights or after fulfilling  these obligations and to use treasury 
shares to service such  subscription rights.
(5) They  may be used to float shares  of the company on foreign  stock exchanges on 
which they are currently  not listed. The price at which  these  shares are floated on 
foreign stock exchanges must not be more than 5 % lower than the arithmetic  mean 
of the prices  (without ancillary  costs for the acquisition)  of the shares of no par value 
of the company  in the closing auction  in Xetra trading  (or in a corresponding 
successor system)  on the Frankfurt  Stock Exchange during the last three stock 
exchange trading  days prior  to the shares being floated on the foreign stock exchange.
d) The supervisory board  is authorized to use the treasury shares acquired  on the basis of this 
authorization as follows: 
The shares  can be used to service obligations or rights  to acquire Siemens Energy Shares  
that have been or will be agreed with members  of the managing board of Siemens  Energy 
AG in the context  of the provisions on compensation for the managing board. They may 
specifically be offered for purchase, awarded or transferred to the members of the managing  
board of Siemens  Energy AG provided  that the service relationship of that member or the 
board membership must  exist at the time of  the offer, award or transfer.
e) The authorizations included in this resolution may be exercised in each case independently 
of each other,  once  or several  times, individually or collectively, in their entirety or partially 
also by group companies  or by third parties  acting for the account  of the company or its 
group companies.  Furthermore, treasury shares acquired may also be transferred to group 
companies.
f) The subscription right of the shareholders  with respect to treasury  shares  acquired is 
excluded to the extent  that these shares  are used in accordance  with the above authorizations 
under lit. c) nos. (2) to (5) and lit. d). In the case of an offer to acquire treasury shares made 
- Convenience  Translation  – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.2 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
5to all shareholders, the subscription right of shareholders  may also be excluded for fractional 
amounts.
This resolution comes into force (condition precedent)  only upon the taking  effect of (the 
implementation of) the increase of the capital stock  of Siemens Energy AG for the 
implementation of the spin-off of the participations in Siemens Gas and Power  GmbH & Co. 
KG and in Siemens Gas and Power Management  GmbH from Siemens Aktiengesellschaft  
to Siemens Energy AG. 
- Convenience  Translation  – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.2 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
6
- Convenience Translation – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.3 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
1Authorization to Issue  Convertible Bonds/Warrant Bonds, to Exclude the Subscription  
Right for these  Convertible Bonds/Warrant Bonds  as well as the Authorization for the 
Supervisory Board  to Amend  § 4 para. 1, para 2 sentence 1 and para. 6 of the Articles of 
Association 
(1) General Provisions;  Thresholds; Issuance Against Contribution in Cash or in Kind and 
Through Group Companies;  Limitation in Time  of the Authorization
The managing board is authorized to issue once  or several times, also simultaneously 
in various tranches, subordinated or unsubordinated  convertible bonds/warrant bonds 
(together with all the bond structures possible under this resolution hereinafter referred  
to as the "Bonds")  in the total nominal amount of up to EUR 4,000,0000,000 and, in 
this context, to grant/impose  conversion  and/or  option rights and conversion obligations 
in respect of registered shares of no par value  in Siemens Energy AG ("Siemens Energy  
Shares") representing  a pro rata amount in its capital  stock  totaling up to 
EUR 72,664,519 (" Maximum Pro Rata  Amount of the Capital Stock ").
The Bonds may also be issued by a group company of Siemens Energy AG. The 
authorization also covers  the option to assume guarantees for the Bonds issued through  
group companies of the company,  to grant  the holders or creditors of such Bonds  
conversion and/or option rights or impose conversion obligations upon them in respect 
of Siemens Energy shares within  the scope of the Maximum  Pro Rata Amount of the 
Capital Stock, and to make (all) further  declarations and take (all) further  actions 
required for a successful issuance. 
The Bonds may be issued for financing purposes (raising of debt or equity  capital), but 
also for other  purposes such as the optimization of the company's capital structure.
The Bonds  may be issued against contribution in cash and/or in kind.  Warrant bonds 
may be issued against contribution in kind to the extent that the terms and conditions  of 
the warrants provide for full payment  in cash of the option price  per Siemens Energy 
share upon exercise.  The nominal amount  of the Bonds or an issue price  of the Bonds 
below the nominal amount may also be chosen  such that it corresponds to the pro rata 
amount of the capital  stock  represented by the shares to be issued in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the Bonds  or the warrants, respectively (hereinafter the 
"Terms  and Conditions of the Bonds"), i.e., the relevant nominal amount or issue 
price need  not necessarily exceed such amount.
The authorization for the issuance of Bonds expires  on the end  of 31 July 2025.
- Convenience Translation – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.3 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
2(2) Conversion Obligation, Issuer's Right to Grant Shares in Lieu of Repayment of the 
Bonds
The terms and conditions  of convertible bonds may also stipulate a conversion 
obligation upon maturity  (or at an earlier time or when a specific event occurs). The 
terms and conditions may also stipulate the right of the issuer, upon final maturity of a 
Bond with warrants,  conversion rights or obligations attached  (this also includes 
maturity due to termination), to grant  the holders  or creditors shares of no par value in 
the company  or in another listed company instead of paying, in whole or in part, the 
monetary amount due upon maturity.
(3) Conversion/Option Price per  Share
In the case of warrant  bonds, each individual bond (unit) has option rights  attached to 
it (specifically in the form of one or more warrant(s))  that entitle the holder  or creditor  
to receive Siemens Energy shares,  in accordance with the Terms  and Conditions of the 
Bonds.
In the case of convertible bonds, the holders/creditors of the convertible bonds are 
granted the right  and/or  are obliged to convert their convertible bonds  into Siemens 
Energy shares in accordance with the Terms  and Conditions of the  Bonds.
In all cases,  the conversion or exchange or subscription ratio is obtained by dividing  the 
nominal amount or the lower issue price of a convertible bond or, upon exercise of a 
warrant, the amount owed under  the warrant terms, by the respective conversion or 
option price stipulated for  one Siemens  Energy  share.
The pro rata amount  of the capital  stock represented by the shares subscribed for on 
the basis of a convertible bond or, in the case of trade-in, of a warrant bond, must not 
exceed the nominal amount or the  lower issue price of  the Bonds.
The relevant  conversion/option price per share  at the time of issuance must not,  except 
where there  is a conversion obligation,  fall below 80 % of the price of the Siemens 
Energy share in Xetra trading (or in a comparable  successor  system). The average 
closing price on the ten stock exchange  trading  days prior  to the final decision of the 
managing board on the issuance of the Bonds or, following  a public solicitation to 
submit subscription offers,  on the  company's acceptance of such offers.
Alternatively, if the shareholders' subscription right  has not been excluded,  the price on 
the stock exchange trading days during the subscription period  may be used as a basis 
(excepting those days of the subscription period  that are necessary to announce the 
- Convenience Translation – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.3 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
3option or conversion price in due time pursuant to Section 186 (2) of the German Stock  
Corporation Act ( Aktiengesetz, "AktG").
In the case of Bonds with a conversion  obligation, the conversion price may at least 
either equal the minimum price  set out above or correspond to the volume-weighted 
average price of the Siemens Energy  share  on at least the three trading days in Xetra  
trading (or in a comparable  successor  system) immediately preceding  the determination  
of the conversion price in accordance with the Terms and Conditions of the Bonds, even 
if this average price and the relevant  conversion  price derived therefrom are below the 
minimum price (80%) set out above.  Section 9 (1) AktG and Section 199 (2) AktG  
remain unaffected.
(4) Dilution  Protection, Adjustments and Further  Structuring Possibilities
The authorization also provides for the option to grant protection against dilution or 
make adjustments  in certain cases  in accordance with the respective Terms and 
Conditions of the Bonds. Protection against dilution or adjustments may especially be 
contemplated in the event that there are changes  in the capital of the company during 
the term of the Bonds or the warrants (for example,  in the event  of a capital increase or 
reduction in capital or a share split), but also in connection  with dividend payments,  the 
issuance of additional convertible bonds/warrant bonds, transformation  measures as 
well as in the case of other events affecting the value of the option or conversion rights  
or the conversion obligation occurring during the term of the Bonds  or the warrants (for 
example, in the event of acquisition of control  by a third party).  Protection  against 
dilution or adjustments can especially be provided  by granting  subscription rights,  by 
changing the conversion/option price and by changing or granting cash  components. 
The managing board is authorized to determine  the conditions  of issue and the 
additional Terms and Conditions  of the Bonds  or to do so in consultation with the 
respective group company  issuing the Bonds.  The Terms and Conditions of the Bonds  
can especially also provide  for and stipulate the following:  
- whether and, if so, under  what  conditions – for example based on an election 
right of the issuer or of Siemens Energy  AG, as applicable, – the Bonds may be 
serviced from  conditional  capital (in particular from  Conditional Capital 2020 
to be created under  the present  authorization),  from  authorized capital  already  
existing or still to be created, from holdings of treasury  shares already  existing 
or still to be acquired, or – in lieu of delivery of Siemens Energy  shares – 
settlement may be made  by way of a corresponding cash payment or delivery of 
other securities negotiable on another trading  venue within the meaning of 
- Convenience Translation – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.3 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
4Section 2 (22) of the German Securities Trading Act 
(Wertpapierhandelsgesetz),
- whether the  Bonds  or warrants  be issued in bearer or registered  form,
- number and design  of the warrants  (which  may be designed differently) to be 
attached to each individual bond (unit) and whether these  will be detachable 
upon or after issuing,
- coupon and term to maturity – including unlimited or deviating terms - of the 
Bonds or  warrants,
- structure and design of the bond component which may specifically  comprise 
so-called hybrid  bonds,
- whether, in the case of warrant bonds, payment of the option price may be made 
in whole or in part  by way  of transfer of  individual bond  units  (trade-in), 
- whether the conversion  price(s)/option  price(s) or the conversion, subscription 
or exchange ratios are to be determined upon issuing  the Bonds  or during  the 
term of the Bonds or warrants,  and how these  prices/ratios are to be determined  
in each case (stating any minimum  and maximum  prices and variable designs or 
stipulating a determination on the basis of future stock  exchange prices); the 
requirements pursuant to no.  3 above remain  unaffected,
- whether and  how  there  will be  rounding to a full share conversion ratio,
- whether an additional payment  to be rendered  in cash or cash compensation will 
be established,
- how the details of the exercise,  the performance of obligations or rights, the 
deadlines and the setting of the conversion prices/option prices  are to be 
determined in the case of mandatory  conversion obligations,
- whether the Bonds  will be issued in euros or in other legal currencies of OECD  
countries. For the purpose of determining the maximum  aggregate  nominal 
amount of this authorization  in the case of issues in foreign currencies, the 
nominal amount of the Bonds shall in each case be converted into euros on the 
day when the  decision on the issue thereof  is taken.
- Convenience Translation – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.3 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
5(5) Subscription Right, Authorization to Exclude the Subscription Right
Generally, the Bonds  must be offered for subscription to the shareholders. They may 
also be issued  to credit institutions or to companies  operating pursuant  to Section 53 (1) 
sentence 1 or Section 53b (1) sentence  1 or (7) of the German Banking Act (Gesetz über 
das Kreditwesen, "KWG") with the obligation to offer  them  for subscription to 
shareholders. However, the managing board is authorized, with the consent of the 
supervisory board, to exclude the  subscription right
- provided that the Bonds are issued against cash payment  and the issue price of 
a Bond  is not significantly  lower than its theoretical  market price computed in 
accordance with generally accepted actuarial  methods. The notional share in the 
capital stock  attributable to shares to be issued or granted  under the Bonds that 
were issued based  on this authorization  under exclusion of the subscription right 
pursuant to Section 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG  must not exceed 10% of the capital 
stock. Applicable in this case is the capital  stock  at the time this authorization 
becomes effective or, if this amount is lower, at the time at which  this 
authorization is used. When calculating  the aforementioned  limit,  shares have 
to be taken into account  that are issued or disposed of in direct or analogous 
application of Section 186 (3) sentence 4 AktG during the term of this 
authorization until the point in time of its use. Likewise included  are shares that 
have been issued  or granted or are to be issued  or granted  on the basis of a 
convertible bond or warrant  bond issued during the term of this authorization, 
with shareholders’ subscription rights excluded in accordance with Section 186 
(3) sentence 4  AktG, 
- to the extent necessary for fractional  amounts  resulting from  the subscription 
ratio,
- in order to grant holders/creditors of conversion or option rights  to shares  of the 
company or of conversion  obligations under Bonds issued  or guaranteed  by the 
Siemens Energy AG or any of its group companies subscription rights as 
compensation against effects of dilution in the amount  in which they would be 
entitled to such rights upon exercising  such conversion or option rights  or 
fulfilling any conversion obligations.
The notional pro rata amount in the capital stock attributable, in aggregate, to shares to 
be issued or granted under bonds  that are issued based on this authorization  under 
exclusion of the subscription  right must not exceed EUR 72,664,519 (nominal). When  
calculating the aforementioned capital limit, the portion of the capital stock  has to be 
taken into account  that is attributable to the new shares that are issued during the term 
- Convenience Translation – only  the German version is binding –
Annex 13.3 to the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement
6of this authorization under  exclusion  of the subscription right, or that are to be issued 
to fulfil conversion or option rights or conversion obligations under bonds, provided 
that the Bonds have been issued during the term of this authorization under exclusion 
of the shareholders' subscription right. 
The supervisory board is authorized to amend  § 4 para. 1, para 2 sentence 1 and para.  6 
of the articles of association of the company  in accordance  with the respective use of 
Conditional Capital  2020. This applies accordingly if, after the expiration  of the 
authorization period, the authorization to issue convertible bonds/warrant  bonds has not 
been used as well as if, after all deadlines for exercising  conversion rights/warrants have 
expired, Conditional  Capital 2020 has not or not fully been used.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
Deconsolidation Agreement
entered into between
Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin and  Munich,
– hereinafter also referred to as "Siemens AG" –
Siemens Beteiligungen Inland GmbH, Munich,
– hereinafter also referred to as "SBI GmbH " –
and
Siemens  Energy Aktiengesellschaft, Munich,
– hereinafter also referred to as " Siemens Energy AG"  –
– hereinafter  together referred to as the "Parties"  or individually as a "Party"  –
22 May 2020
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
2Preamble
0.1 Siemens AG with its registered offices in Berlin and Munich  is registered with the 
register of companies (Handelsregister) of the district court (Amtsgericht) of 
Charlottenburg under registration number  HRB 12300 B and with the register of 
companies of the district court  of Munich under registration number HRB 6684. 
Siemens AG holds all shares in SBI GmbH with its registered office in Munich,  
registered with the register  of companies  of the district court of Munich under registration  
number HRB 139644. Further, Siemens  AG currently  still holds all shares in Siemens 
Energy AG with its registered office in Munich, registered with the register  of companies 
of the district  court of Munich under registration number HRB  252581. The capital  stock  
of Siemens Energy  AG at the time of conclusion  of this Deconsolidation Agreement 
amounts to EUR 100,000,  divided into 100,000 no-par-value shares (registered shares 
(Namensaktien )).
0.2 Siemens AG intends to bundle  the worldwide Gas & Power operations of the Siemens 
group that are to be separated and the shares held by the Siemens group in the amount  of 
approximately 67 % in Siemens Gamesa Renewable  Energy, S.A. (together, the 
"Siemens Energy Business ") in Siemens Energy AG. Going forward, Siemens 
Energy AG shall be managed as an entity that is legally and organizationally  independent 
of Siemens AG; its shares  shall be admitted  to trading  at the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. 
Siemens AG intends to retain a direct minority shareholding  and an indirect minority 
shareholding held via SBI GmbH in the amount of initially 45 % of the future shares in 
Siemens Energy AG. The remaining  shares in Siemens Energy AG are to be transferred 
to the Siemens shareholders  by way of a spin-off (Abspaltung) of the partnership interests 
in Siemens  Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG and its general partner  (Komplementärin) –
being the company to which the Siemens Energy Business was transferred  beforehand  – 
to Siemens  Energy  AG. The spin-off will take effect upon its registration with the 
registers of companies of Siemens AG at the district court  of Charlottenburg and at the 
district court  of Munich (the day of the later of these  two registrations is hereinafter 
referred to as the "Closing  Date "). In the context of the spin-off, shares in Siemens 
Energy AG in the amount of about  9.9 % of the capital stock  out of the directly and 
indirectly retained shareholding  of 45 % of the future  shares held by Siemens AG shall be 
transferred to  Siemens Pension-Trust e.V.
0.3 After the Closing  Date and transfer  of shares to Siemens  Pension-Trust e.V., the shares in 
Siemens Energy AG will be  held as follows: 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
3 Siemens AG: 167,744,527 shares  (corresponding  to approximately 23.08 % of the 
capital stock); 
 SBI GmbH: 87,307,936  shares (corresponding to approximately 12.02 % of the 
capital stock); 
 Siemens Pension-Trust e.V.: 71,937,874 shares (corresponding to 9.9 % of the 
capital stock);
 Shareholders of Siemens  AG: the remaining  399,654,856 shares (corresponding to 
55 % of the capital stock). 
0.4 Following  the Closing Date  and completion of status  proceedings (Statusverfahren) 
(pursuant to Sections 97 et seqq.  of the German Stock  Corporation  Act (Aktiengesetz, 
"AktG")), Siemens Energy AG will constitute an equally co-determined supervisory 
board (paritätisch mitbestimmter Aufsichtsrat) in accordance with the provisions of the 
German Co-Determination  Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz, "MitbestG"). The supervisory 
board will have 20 members  (Section 7 (1) sentence 1 no. 3 MitbestG), one half of which  
is to be elected as shareholder representatives by the shareholders' meeting of Siemens 
Energy AG. 
0.5 The Siemens Energy Business shall be managed by Siemens Energy  AG autonomously  
and independently of Siemens AG. Siemens AG does not intend  to exert, directly  or 
indirectly, controlling influence on Siemens Energy  AG. As a consequence, Siemens 
Energy AG will be able to evolve  as an autonomous and independent company which 
should have – in the opinion of the members of the managing  boards of Siemens  AG and 
Siemens Energy  AG – a positive effect  on the market valuation of the shares of 
Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG. It is intended that, after the spin-off has taken 
effect, the Siemens Energy  Business will no longer be fully consolidated  in 
Siemens AG's consolidated financial statements.
0.6 Given  the fact that there is no majority shareholding within the meaning  of 
Section 16 AktG, it will not be assumed  that Siemens Energy AG is still controlled by 
Siemens AG pursuant to Section 17 (2) AktG after the Closing Date. In the event, which  
cannot be completely  ruled  out, that Siemens AG directly and indirectly,  specifically via 
the shares held by SBI GmbH,  will hold the majority  of the shares entitled to vote and 
represented at future shareholders' meetings of Siemens Energy  AG, Siemens AG and 
SBI GmbH do not  intend to exert controlling influence on Siemens Energy AG.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
40.7 In order to illustrate the entrepreneurial autonomy of Siemens Energy  AG and its 
independence from Siemens  AG,  and to provide from the outset for legal certainty  
irrespective of future shareholder  presence at shareholders' meetings of Siemens 
Energy AG, the Parties intend to ensure this by entering into a contractual agreement on 
the non-exercise of control. 
Now, therefore,  the Parties agree  as follows:
§ 1
General Restrictions  on the Exercise of Voting Rights 
1.1 Siemens AG and SBI GmbH undertake  to Siemens Energy  AG, with regard to the 
resolutions at shareholders' meetings of Siemens Energy AG on 
a) the appointment and removal  of the supervisory board members;
b) management measures pursuant to Section 83, Section 111 (4) sentences 3 to 5, 
Sections 111b (4), 119 (2) or 179a AktG;
c) the discharge of the members of the managing and supervisory boards 
(Entlastung) and a vote of no confidence (Vertrauensentzug) in respect of 
managing board  members;
d) the remuneration of the supervisory  board members (Section 113 (3) AktG) and 
the remuneration system for the managing  board members  (Section 120a  AktG) 
including a possible reduction of the remuneration under  Section 87 (4) AktG; and 
e) the approval of the annual financial  statements if the shareholders' meeting 
resolves on such approval (Section  173 AktG),
to exercise their voting rights attached to their shares of Siemens Energy AG, subject to 
the provisions  on the Special Supervisory Board Member in § 3 of this Deconsolidation 
Agreement, only up to the maximum number of votes of Siemens AG (as defined in § 1.3 
of this Deconsolidation Agreement).
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
51.2 Prior to a resolution pursuant to § 1.1 of this Deconsolidation Agreement, the number of 
votes held by the other  shareholders present  or represented at the relevant  shareholders' 
meeting is to be determined  (hereinafter the "Other Shareholders’ Voting  Presence ") 
based on the last presence of the shares  entitled to vote at the shareholders'  meeting 
which is determined  prior to the vote, including shares for which the voting rights were  
cast by postal vote (the "Presence "). For this purpose, Siemens AG's shares in Siemens 
Energy AG and the shares in Siemens  Energy  AG attributable to Siemens AG shall be 
deducted from the Presence. All present  shares  in Siemens Energy AG held by 
Siemens AG or any affiliated  company of Siemens AG that is a Party to this Agreement 
shall be deemed "Siemens  AG's  Shares". The following present shares  in Siemens 
Energy AG shall be  deemed " Shares Attributable  to Siemens AG" : 
a) shares held by companies that are controlled by Siemens AG within the meaning 
of Section 17 AktG or held by subsidiaries as defined  in the International  
Financial Reporting  Standard IFRS 10 (Appendix  A) (hereinafter "IFRS 10") to 
the extent that they are not deemed to be Siemens AG's Shares,
b) shares held by Siemens Pension-Trust e.V.  or other pension schemes, pension 
funds, support funds or investment  funds that serve  the purpose of providing 
company pension or implementing  remuneration  and participation  programs for 
employees of Siemens AG and/or its affiliated companies (Sections 15 et seqq. 
AktG),
c) shares held by members of the managing board of Siemens AG or members of 
SBI GmbH's board  of managing  directors,  and
d) shares in respect of which the voting right is exercised at Siemens Energy AG’s 
shareholders' meeting  by members of the managing  board of Siemens AG or 
members of  SBI GmbH's board  of managing directors. 
1.3 The voting rights attached  to Siemens AG's  Shares  may be exercised by Siemens AG and 
SBI GmbH for resolutions pursuant to § 1.1 of this Deconsolidation  Agreement only for 
up to the "Maximum Number of Siemens AG's  Voting  Rights".  The Maximum 
Number of Siemens AG's  Voting Rights shall be determined by deducting  from the Other 
Shareholders’ Voting Presence (i) votes corresponding to 10 % of the Other 
Shareholders’ Voting Presence and (ii) votes attached  to present shares that are deemed  
Shares Attributable to Siemens AG. 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
6§ 2
Maximum Number of Representatives of Siemens AG on 
the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy AG
2.1 Siemens AG and SBI GmbH undertake to Siemens Energy AG to ensure that at all times 
no more than three supervisory board  members depending on Siemens AG are members 
of Siemens Energy  AG’s supervisory board  representing  the shareholders.
2.2 The following  persons  shall  be deemed persons "Depending on Siemens AG"  
a) persons who are or have  been  in the past two (2) years, counting  as from the date 
of the respective  shareholders' meeting,  members of the managing  board of 
Siemens AG, management  of SBI GmbH or the managing body of any other 
subsidiary within the meaning of IFRS 10 (Appendix A)  or of an affiliated  
company of Siemens AG within the meaning of Sections  15 et seqq. AktG, of an 
associate (as defined in no. 3 of the international accounting  standards IAS 28 or 
the respective  successor provision – hereinafter "IAS 28") of Siemens AG or of a 
joint venture (as  defined  in IAS 28 no. 3)  of Siemens AG;
b) persons who are or have  been  in the past two (2) years, counting  as from the date 
of the respective  shareholders'  meeting,  in an employment relationship with 
Siemens AG or an affiliated  company (pursuant to Sections 15 et seqq.  AktG) of 
Siemens AG; 
c) persons who are relatives (as defined in Section 15 of the German  Fiscal Code 
(Abgabenordnung , "AO"))  of a current  managing board  member of Siemens AG;  
or
d) persons who, based on a decision adopted  by the supervisory board of Siemens 
Energy AG in accordance with its duties, cannot  be considered as independent, 
because 
(i)they may currently have personal or business relations with Siemens AG, or 
an affiliated  company of Siemens AG, that may cause  a substantial and not 
merely temporary  conflict of interests  (within the meaning  of Section  C.9 of 
the 2020 German  Corporate  Governance  Code),
(ii)the supervisory board of Siemens Energy AG therefore believes that the 
supervisory board  member  (or a candidate  for membership on the supervisory 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
7board) is not independent (within the meaning  of the 2020 German Corporate 
Governance Code) of Siemens AG; and
(iii) the supervisory board of Siemens Energy AG has made this view  public in an 
election proposal  (Wahlvorschlag), in a declaration of conformity 
(Entsprechenserklärung) with the German Corporate Governance Code or in 
comparable publications.
2.3 In order  to achieve  the aim specified in § 2.1 of this Deconsolidation Agreement, 
Siemens AG and SBI GmbH will, in particular,
a) in the event of an election  of the supervisory  board, not vote for candidates that 
are Depending on Siemens AG to the extent that, as a consequence of their 
election, more  than three  shareholder representatives  on the supervisory board  of 
Siemens Energy  AG would  be Depending  on Siemens  AG; 
b) not submit  to the shareholders' meeting  of Siemens Energy AG election  proposals 
of their own for elections to the supervisory board and will ensure  that affiliated 
companies of Siemens AG  (Sections 15 et seqq.  AktG)  do not submit election  
proposals to the extent that, assuming that these election proposals and 
furthermore the election proposals of the supervisory board  of Siemens 
Energy AG are accepted,  as a consequence  and following their election,  there 
would be more than three  shareholder representatives  on the supervisory board of 
Siemens Energy  AG who are Depending on Siemens AG; 
c) in the event of a court appointment of supervisory board members pursuant  to 
Section 104 AktG, not exercise  the shareholders’  rights such that, as a result of the 
court appointment,  there  will be more than three shareholder representatives on 
the supervisory board of Siemens Energy AG who are Depending on 
Siemens AG; and
d) exert influence  on members  of management bodies or on employees of 
Siemens AG or its affiliated  companies,  e.g. by refusing a required  approval for 
the assumption of a secondary  function, such that these members  will not accept a 
mandate as supervisory board  member if otherwise  there would be more than 
three shareholder  representatives on the supervisory  board  who are Depending on 
Siemens AG.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
8§ 3
Restrictions on the Exercise of Voting rights for the 
Special Supervisory Board Member  
3.1 Siemens AG and SBI GmbH undertake  to Siemens  Energy AG to exercise the voting 
right attached to Siemens AG's  Shares (as defined  in § 1.2 of this Deconsolidation 
Agreement) in Siemens Energy  AG for the election,  re-election  and vote on the removal  
of a supervisory board member and, where applicable, a substitute  member  of that 
supervisory board  member (hereinafter "Special  Supervisory Board Member") only in 
compliance with the following restriction. The voting  right attached to Siemens AG's  
Shares may be exercised for the passing of resolutions pursuant to sentence 1 above for 
not more than the "Reduced  Maximum  Number  of Voting  Rights of Siemens AG." 
The Reduced Maximum Number of Voting Rights of Siemens AG is to be determined by 
deducting from the Other Shareholders’  Voting Presence  (i) votes corresponding to 40 % 
of the Other  Shareholders’  Voting Presence and (ii) votes  attached to shares that are 
present and  that are  deemed to be  Shares Attributable to  Siemens AG.
3.2 The Special Supervisory Board Member  and, where applicable, a substitute  member 
appointed for that supervisory board  member must  not be a person Depending on 
Siemens AG (within the meaning of § 2.2 of this Deconsolidation Agreement). 
3.3 Siemens Energy AG’s supervisory  board  shall inform Siemens AG in due time before  the 
first shareholders' meeting  after the Closing Date  where  shareholder representatives are to 
be elected for the supervisory board,  of the name of the candidate from the supervisory 
board’s election proposal who is to be elected  as Special Supervisory Board Member. 
This applies mutatis mutandis if, at a later point  in time, the Special Supervisory Board  
Member elected and, where applicable,  his/her (substitute  as) successor in office, leaves 
office, is no longer available for re-election or has by that time become  a person 
Depending on Siemens AG.  
3.4 To the extent that Siemens Energy  AG’s supervisory board has not designated  the Special  
Supervisory Board Member  to Siemens AG and if Siemens Energy AG’s supervisory  
board does not inform Siemens AG of the name  of the Special Supervisory Board 
Member by the twenty-first (21st) day before  the start of the relevant  shareholders' 
meeting at which a supervisory board election is to be held, or if the candidate whose 
name has been notified is a person Depending on Siemens AG, that candidate on the 
supervisory board’s election proposal who is not Depending on Siemens AG and who is 
the most  senior member (in age) will be deemed to be the Special Supervisory Board 
Member.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
9§ 4
Share Transfer  to Affiliated Companies
4.1 The free transferability of the shares  held by Siemens AG and SBI GmbH  is not restricted 
by this agreement.  This also applies  to the transfer of shares to other companies that are 
affiliated companies of Siemens AG (Sections 15 et seqq. AktG). 
4.2 If, as a result of any such transfer, an affiliated company  acquires a direct participation of 
at least 10 %  of the capital stock of Siemens  Energy  AG, any such transfer is only 
permissible if that affiliated  company accedes to this Deconsolidation Agreement 
assuming the obligations incumbent  upon Siemens AG  and SBI GmbH. For accession to 
this Deconsolidation Agreement,  the affiliated  company has to send an accession 
declaration to Siemens Energy  AG;  separate acceptance  by the other Parties to this 
Deconsolidation Agreement  is not required for accession to this Deconsolidation 
Agreement. Accession of the Siemens Pension-Trust  e.V.  to this Deconsolidation  
Agreement pursuant to sentence 1 above  is not required.
4.3 Furthermore, a transfer of shares  to other affiliated companies of Siemens  AG 
(Sections 15 et seqq. AktG)  is only permissible if, as a result of the transfer, the Shares 
Attributable to Siemens AG (as defined  in § 1.2 of this Deconsolidation Agreement) do 
not account for more than 15 % of the issued shares of Siemens Energy AG. Affiliated 
companies of Siemens AG  that hold shares  in Siemens Energy AG may,  with the 
approval of Siemens AG, accede to this Deconsolidation  Agreement at any time in 
accordance with § 4.2 sentence 2 of this Deconsolidation Agreement.
4.4 Siemens AG undertakes to ensure that its affiliated companies  (Sections 15 et seqq. 
AktG) including SBI GmbH do not exercise  their rights  attached  to the shares in Siemens 
Energy AG to the extent that the non-exercise of rights is required for Siemens AG to 
fulfil its obligations towards Siemens Energy AG under  this Agreement.
§ 5
Shareholders’ Request for Compliance
Besides Siemens Energy AG, other shareholders  of Siemens Energy  AG whose shares 
taken together represent  an amount in the capital stock  of at least EUR 100,000 may 
request compliance with the obligations under  this Deconsolidation Agreement.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
10§ 6
Applicability and Term
6.1 This Agreement will take effect  as of the Closing Date  and is concluded  for a term until 
the end of the fifth annual shareholders'  meeting after the shareholders'  meeting of 
Siemens Energy  AG following  the Closing Date at which an election of shareholder 
representatives for Siemens  Energy AG’s supervisory  board  was on the agenda. Prior to 
the end of that term, no ordinary termination (ordentliche  Kündigung) is possible. 
Thereafter, this Deconsolidation  Agreement will be renewed for the period leading up to 
the end of the fifth annual  shareholders'  meeting following  thereafter, unless terminated 
by a Party by giving at least  three months’ notice prior  to its expiry.
6.2 The right to terminate  this Agreement for good cause  (Kündigung  aus wichtigem Grund) 
remains unaffected.  A sale of shares in Siemens Energy  AG by Siemens AG or affiliated  
companies (Sections 15 et seqq. AktG) of Siemens AG (including SBI GmbH) that 
results in Siemens  AG holding, directly or indirectly, taking  into account  the shares 
attributable to it pursuant  to Section  16 (4) AktG  ("Participation"),  less than 15 % of the 
shares in Siemens Energy AG shall  constitute an extraordinary cause for terminating this 
Deconsolidation Agreement; in this case,  each Party may terminate this Deconsolidation 
Agreement in writing at any time without notice (fristlos kündigen), until the 
Participation is again above 15 %.
6.3 Only the Parties have a right  to terminate  or cancel this Deconsolidation Agreement; the 
exercise of this right is not subject to the consent of the other shareholders of Siemens  
Energy AG.
§ 7
Termination of this Deconsolidation Agreement
7.1 The termination of this Deconsolidation  Agreement could  result in Siemens AG again 
gaining control or competitively significant  influence as defined under merger control 
law over Siemens Energy AG with the consequence that clearance requirements under  
merger control  law are triggered thereby. The termination  of this Deconsolidation 
Agreement is therefore subject  to the condition precedent that all regulations under  
merger control law applicable  in the relevant  jurisdictions  have been complied with so 
that the termination of this Deconsolidation Agreement can be implemented  under the 
merger control regulations  applicable in each case.  This is the case, in particular,  if 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
11a) the competent competition authority (Kartellbehörde) has granted clearance as 
regards the termination of this Deconsolidation Agreement, or
b) the competent competition authority has stated to the Parties that the termination 
of this Deconsolidation Agreement is not notifiable (anmeldepflichtig) under the 
applicable merger control  provisions, or that
c) according to the joint understanding of the Parties – which has been specified by 
them jointly and in writing – there is no notification obligation  (Anmeldepflicht).
7.2 Relevant  jurisdictions are
a) in case of termination by Siemens AG, the jurisdictions that are identified as such 
in the notice of  termination ( Kündigungserklärung);  
b) in case of amicable termination, the jurisdictions that are identified as such in the 
cancellation agreement (Aufhebungsvereinbarung);  or
c) and, furthermore, all jurisdictions in which one of the Parties demands that a 
clearance procedure be  conducted under merger control  law. 
§ 8
Miscellaneous
8.1 This Deconsolidation Agreement is governed  by the laws of the Federal Republic of 
Germany, but  excluding  its conflict of law rules. 
8.2 Amendments and supplements to this Deconsolidation Agreement,  including an 
amendment to or contracting  out of this provision, require written  form unless stricter  
requirements of form  must be complied with. 
8.3 If one or more provisions in this Deconsolidation Agreement  are or become  completely 
or partially void, invalid  or impracticable, the validity of this Deconsolidation  Agreement 
and its other  provisions will not be affected thereby.  In such case, the void, invalid or 
impracticable provision will be deemed  replaced  by a provision that comes as close as 
possible to what was originally intended  by the Parties in terms of form,  content,  time, 
measure and scope  of applicability in accordance with the commercial intent and purpose 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  19 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
 
12of the void, invalid  or impracticable provision. This applies accordingly if this 
Deconsolidation Agreement lacks any  provisions.  
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
1Group  Separation  Agreement
entered into between
Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, Berlin and  Munich,
– hereinafter also referred to as "Siemens AG" –
and
Siemens Energy AG, Munich,
– hereinafter  referred to together as the "Parties"  or individually as a "Party"  –
22 May 2020
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
Table of Contents
§ 1 Establishment of the  Siemens Energy Business ............................................................. 3
§ 2 Liability ............................................................................................................................. 3
§ 3 Admission  to Stock Exchange Trading,  Insurance, Allocation of Prospectus  
Liability ................................................................................................................. 3
§ 4 Accounting ......................................................................................................................... 3
§ 5 Tax  Indemnifications ........................................................................................................ 3
§ 6 Cooperation in  Tax  Matters ............................................................................................ 3
§ 7 Confidentiality .................................................................................................................. 3
§ 8 Information Sharing, Rights to Documents  and Cooperation Duties ......................... 3
§ 9 Assertion and Fulfillment of Claims ............................................................................... 3
§ 10 Dispute Resolution,  Arbitration Clause ....................................................................... 3
§ 11 Final Provisions .............................................................................................................. 3
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
Preamble
(A) The following Group Separation  Agreement is an annex to the Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement between  Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG entered into on the date hereof. 
Defined terms  used in the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement  have the same meaning when 
used in this Group Separation Agreement,  unless otherwise defined herein.  
(B) Upon the spin-off taking effect,  55 % of the respective participation  in each Siemens  
Energy KG and General Partner GmbH will be transferred to Siemens Energy AG in 
accordance with the provisions  of the German  Transformation Act (Umwandlungsgesetz ). 
Prior to that, the remaining 45 % of the respective participation  in each Siemens Energy  KG 
and in General Partner GmbH will be transferred by Siemens AG and SBI GmbH to Siemens 
Energy AG as contributions in kind pursuant to the Contribution Agreement in exchange for 
the granting of shares. 
(C) Upon the spin-off taking effect,  the shareholders of Siemens AG will hold 55 % in total of 
the capital stock  of Siemens Energy AG. The remaining 45 % of Siemens Energy AG's 
capital stock will be held in part directly  by Siemens AG and in part indirectly via 
SBI GmbH. All shares of Siemens Energy  AG will be admitted to trading  on the Regulated 
Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and also on the sub-segment of the Regulated 
Market of the Frankfurt  Stock Exchange with additional post-admission obligations (Prime 
Standard).
(D) The worldwide  operations  of Gas and Power of the Siemens Group that are to be separated 
and the shares held by the Siemens Group in Siemens  Gamesa  Renewable  Energy,  S.A. 
(together, the "Siemens Energy Business") have  been or will be legally  and organizationally 
consolidated in Siemens Energy  KG on the basis of agreements that have already been 
entered into (together, the "Establishment Agreements",  individually the "Establishment 
Agreement").
(E) Upon the spin-off  taking effect, Siemens Energy AG and the companies  directly or indirectly 
transferred to it will leave the Siemens Group.  Siemens  Energy  AG will conduct the Siemens 
Energy Business  then held by it such that it is legally and organizationally  independent of 
Siemens AG.
(F) Although Siemens  AG will hold a (direct and indirect) participation of 45 % in Siemens 
Energy AG, based on the Deconsolidation  Agreement that has been entered  into, Siemens 
Energy AG will no longer be a dependent company of Siemens AG within the meaning of 
Section 17 AktG upon the spin-off  taking  effect. Siemens AG will not exert controlling  
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
influence on Siemens Energy  AG. Upon the spin-off taking  effect, the Siemens Energy 
Business will no longer be fully consolidated but the participation in Siemens Energy AG 
will be included  at equity in the consolidated financial statements  of Siemens AG.
(G) Upon the spin-off  taking effect, Siemens  Energy AG as the group parent company together  
with Siemens Energy   KG, which will then be held by Siemens  Energy  AG as sole 
shareholder, and its subsidiaries  will form a group of their own. Upon the spin-off taking 
effect, Siemens AG as the group parent company  will continue to conduct the remaining 
Siemens business. 
(H) With this Group  Separation Agreement, the Parties wish  to regulate their legal relationships 
for the time as of the spin-off taking effect  and the resulting separation of Siemens Energy  
AG and its group  companies from the Siemens Group. Unless expressly provided for 
otherwise in this Group  Separation Agreement, group companies of a Party  are companies  
(i) that,  upon the spin-off taking effect, are that Party's group companies within the meaning 
of Section  18 AktG or (ii) that become that Party's group companies after the spin-off taking 
effect based on Establishment  Agreements entered  into prior to  the spin-off taking  effect.
Now, therefore,  the Parties agree  as follows: 
§ 1
Establishment  of the  Siemens Energy Business
1.1 On the basis of the Establishment Agreements, the Siemens Energy  Business has been  or 
will be legally  and organizationally  bundled under the umbrella of Siemens  Energy KG. It 
is the common understanding  of the Parties that the allocation of companies, activities, 
assets, liabilities and risks  to the Siemens Energy Business made under and in connection 
with the Establishment Agreements  is conclusive and binding. This does not prejudice 
other provisions set forth in  the Establishment  Agreements.
1.2 Each Party will procure that each of its group  companies that is party to an Establishment 
Agreement shall perform such Establishment  Agreement in accordance with the respective 
agreements made  therein,  unless otherwise provided for in this Group Separation 
Agreement.
1.3 The provisions set forth in this Group  Separation Agreement do not modify the provisions 
set forth in the individual Establishment  Agreements.  The Parties  agree that in the event 
that a provision agreed  in this Group Separation  Agreement  substantially conflicts with an 
agreement made  in an Establishment Agreement, the agreement made in the Establishment 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
Agreement shall take precedence (principle of precedence), unless a precedence of the 
provisions of the Group Separation Agreement is expressly agreed in this Group  Separation 
Agreement (deviation from the principle  of precedence).  In such a case, each Party  shall 
ensure that its respective group company  which is a party to the respective Establishment 
Agreement shall observe and appropriately implement this. 
1.4 On the basis of so-called agency  agreements,  certain operations are conducted  on behalf of 
group companies of Siemens Energy  AG by the following group companies of 
Siemens AG: (i) Siemens Spa (Algeria),  (ii) Siemens  A.E., Electrotechnical Projects and 
Products (Greece),  (iii) Siemens  Ltd. (India), (iv) P.T.  Siemens Indonesia (Indonesia) and 
(v) Siemens Pakistan Engineering  Co. Ltd. (Pakistan).  Exclusively  the provisions set forth 
in the agency agreements apply to those operations. The provisions set forth in this Group 
Separation Agreement  do not apply to these  operations.  
§ 2 
Liability
2.1 To the extent that claims are asserted  against  Siemens AG or any of its group  companies  
on the basis of a statutory liability  or non-contractual liability imposed under common  law 
for liabilities, obligations or contingent  liabilities  incurred or established  prior to the spin-
off taking effect  that, based  on their origin or purpose, are attributable  to the Siemens 
Energy Business,  Siemens Energy AG must indemnify  Siemens AG or the group  company 
concerned from the respective  liability.
2.2 To the extent that claims  are asserted against Siemens Energy  AG or any of its group 
companies on the basis of a statutory liability  or non-contractual liability  imposed under 
common law for liabilities, obligations or contingent liabilities incurred or established  prior 
to the spin-off taking effect  that, based  on their origin or purpose, are attributable to the 
remaining Siemens business, Siemens AG must indemnify Siemens Energy AG or the 
group company  concerned from  the respective liability.
§ 3
Admission to Stock Exchange Trading, Insurance, Allocation of Prospectus Liability
3.1 It has been agreed in the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement that all shares of Siemens 
Energy AG are to be admitted to trading on the Regulated  Market of the Frankfurt Stock  
Exchange and also on the sub-segment of the Regulated  Market of the Frankfurt Stock  
Exchange with additional  post-admission  obligations  (Prime Standard)  immediately  after 
the spin-off taking  effect. Prior to that, for the purpose of admission to stock  exchange 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
trading, Siemens  Energy AG will, among other  things, prepare and publish (or otherwise 
make available  to investors in the context of the admission to stock exchange trading) a 
securities prospectus to be approved  by the German Federal Financial  Supervisory 
Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht)  and further  marketing 
materials and other documents. The Parties intend to take out market-standard insurance 
for the risks  typically associated with an admission to stock exchange trading  in connection 
with the listing of the  shares of Siemens Energy AG.
3.2 In the event that no insurance is taken out for the risks typically  associated with an 
admission to stock exchange  trading or if and to the extent that, despite such insurance, a 
Party does not in fact obtain compensation, all damage  in connection with the 
implementation of the admission  to stock  exchange  trading and other financial losses  
incurred because the securities  prospectus and/or  the further marketing materials  and other 
documents actually or allegedly contain  information that is incorrect, incomplete or 
otherwise misleading  (so-called prospectus  liability)  will be divided between Siemens AG 
and Siemens Energy  AG at a ratio  of 45 % and  55 %. 
This distribution applies, in particular, to the liability under warranty and indemnity  
obligations of Siemens Energy AG vis-à-vis  the banks accompanying the transaction. It 
also applies to costs and expenses (including  charges) incurred by any Party for purposes 
of examining, defending  against or settling prospectus liability (including filing counter-
claims and counter-actions and asserting claims  against third parties) if and to the extent 
that these costs and expenses are necessary or adequate from the perspective of a prudent 
and conscientious manager whose  company  would have to bear such costs and expenses. 
Accordingly, the Parties will mutually indemnify  one another according to the distribution 
described above. Section  254 of the German  Civil Code  (Bürgerliches  Gesetzbuch , 
"BGB ") and all comparable  provisions and principles of law of any kind whatsoever shall 
not apply in the relationship  between the Parties and any defense or objection  raised by any 
Party in this regard against  the other Party is hereby expressly excluded.
§ 4
Accounting
4.1 In its accounting, i.e. in the consolidated annual financial  statements and in the half-year 
and quarterly financial reporting, Siemens  AG will, as of the spin-off taking effect, 
recognize the (direct and indirect) participation in Siemens Energy AG, which will 
continue to be held by it, in its statements of financial position as a participation in 
accordance with the equity  method  (IAS 28). Siemens AG will comply with corresponding 
disclosure obligations, including those pursuant to IFRS  12. To facilitate this, Siemens  
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
Energy AG will forward  to Siemens  AG all documents necessary for this and will disclose  
information. In the context of the deconsolidation of the Siemens Energy  Business and the 
first-time application of the equity method following the spin-off taking effect, Siemens 
Energy AG will make available to Siemens AG the necessary documents and information.
4.2 Quarterly reporting of Siemens Energy  AG to Siemens AG ("regular  reporting") will 
correspond in all material aspects  to the balance-sheet  accounting and valuation principles  
and the other accounting principles  of Siemens  AG as applicable  from time to time. 
Therefore, Siemens AG will make available  to Siemens Energy  AG at least once  per year 
the current key accounting principles  of Siemens AG and will additionally support Siemens 
Energy AG in all other respects with a view to the transmission of the necessary documents 
and the disclosure  of the necessary information. Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG will 
establish a procedure  for the exchange  of information  regarding regulatory  changes of the 
applicable accounting standards  and potential changes of accounting principles in order to 
be able to take relevant changes into account as early as possible.
4.3 Furthermore, Siemens Energy AG will make available to Siemens AG all information  that 
Siemens AG reasonably requires  in order to report the expected earnings per share  or, as 
the case may be, substantial  deviations  in the context of its own mandatory  financial  
reporting. Siemens AG will publish  communicated information  that (directly or indirectly) 
allows conclusions as to the earnings situation  of Siemens Energy AG only after the 
publication of the relevant  financial  reports  of Siemens Energy AG or with the prior 
consent of Siemens Energy AG.
4.4 Siemens AG and Siemens  Energy  AG have mutually agreed on the scope and time limits 
of the regular reporting as set out in Annex 4.4. Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG will 
consult with each other regarding  all circumstances  relevant to regular reporting (e.g. an 
intended change in the process  of preparing  financial  statements)  and will adjust the 
contents of Annex 4.4 accordingly in the scope of what  is necessary  and reasonable.  To 
the extent that this is necessary and reasonable, Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG will 
widen the scope  of regular  reporting in Annex 4.4 (e.g. regarding  regular reporting  for 
business transactions after  the date  of a statement of financial  position). 
4.5 Siemens Energy AG and Siemens AG will assist each other in the context of the timely 
response to questions, if any, asked  by the German  Financial Reporting  Enforcement Panel 
(Deutsche  Prüfstelle für Rechnungslegung ) regarding Siemens AG's participation  in 
Siemens Energy  AG. In  this regard, the provisions in § 8.5 apply mutatis  mutandis .
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
4.6 Siemens AG will reimburse Siemens Energy  AG for additional reasonable external costs 
incurred when complying with  the obligations specified in § 4 (e.g. for additional 
actuarial reports  and additional  audit fees) after prior  consultation and  submission of 
written proof. 
4.7 To the extent that Siemens Energy AG reasonably requires information  from Siemens AG 
to comply with disclosure  obligations  in connection with Siemens AG's shareholder status  
(e.g. in the context  of related  party  transactions),  Siemens AG will provide such 
information to Siemens Energy AG. 
4.8 All of the obligations of the Parties under this § 4 are subject  to the condition that the 
disclosure of the information is legally permissible  and that – as regards inside information 
within the meaning of Art. 7 MAR or other applicable  provisions under capital market laws 
– in particular the applicable insider trading  regulations are adhered to.
4.9 The above provisions of this § 4 only apply for as long as the participation  of Siemens AG 
enables it to (directly and indirectly) exert significant influence on Siemens Energy AG 
within the meaning  of IAS 28. As a rule, this is to be assumed  for as long as the (direct and 
indirect) participation of Siemens AG in Siemens  Energy AG's capital stock  amounts in 
total to at least 20 %. If these conditions are no longer fulfilled  and if Siemens AG still 
requires specific information  from  Siemens  Energy AG for its own accounting and 
financial reporting, the Parties,  taking into account the principle  of good faith,  will agree 
in each case  on adequate  and expedient  provisions for disclosing that  information.
§ 5
Tax Indemnifications
5.1 "Taxes" within the meaning  of this Group Separation Agreement shall mean  any German 
and foreign federal, state or local tax, including income, capital gains, value-added,  sales 
or property tax, stamp duty, wage tax, customs and social  security payments  (in each case 
including all ancillary charges,  interest,  penalties, fines or other surcharges  imposed by any 
Tax authority).
5.2 In the course of the bundling of the Siemens Energy Business  in Siemens Energy KG, the 
following contributions within the meaning of Section 24 (1) of the German 
Transformation Tax Act (Umwandlungssteuergesetz , "UmwStG")  were made into 
Siemens Energy  KG: 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
a)effective as of 1 January  2020, Siemens AG contributed a business unit (Teilbetrieb ) in 
exchange for the increase of its partnership interest (Siemens  AG contributed such 
partnership interest  into SBI GmbH consequently);
b)Siemens AG and  Kyros  63 GmbH joined  SBI GmbH as new partners, which is treated 
under Tax law as a new foundation  (Neugründung) of the enlarged Siemens Energy 
KG, into which  the former shareholders contribute their shares; and
c)effective as of 31 March 2020, SBI GmbH contributed its corporate shareholdings 
(Kapitalgesellschaftsbeteiligungen)  each consisting of a participation  of 100 % in 
Power Control GmbH, Trench Germany GmbH and Dresser-Rand  do Brasil, Ltda. as 
business units  in exchange for the  increase of its partnership interest.
Siemens Energy AG undertakes to procure  that Siemens Energy KG recognizes the 
business assets contributed in each case at their book values for Tax purposes pursuant  to 
Section 24 (2) sentence 2 UmwStG and submits the book value application necessary for 
this purpose in each case in due time. If Siemens Energy AG fails to comply with its 
obligation and if Siemens Energy  KG fails to recognize the contributed  business  assets at 
their book  values for Tax purposes  and/or  to submit the book value  application necessary 
for this purpose by the applicable deadline, Siemens Energy AG will pay to Siemens AG 
or, at the option of the latter, to SBI GmbH an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Taxes 
consequently assessed  against  Siemens AG and SBI GmbH and (ii) the  nominal amount 
of the consequently reduced  corporate income Tax loss carryforwards at Siemens  AG and 
SBI GmbH  multiplied by the corporate income Tax rate applicable in the Tax assessment  
period of recognition of the contribution gain, plus solidarity surcharge, and (iii) the 
nominal amount of the consequently reduced trade Tax losses (gewerbesteuerliche  
Fehlbeträge) at Siemens AG and SBI GmbH multiplied  by the average trade Tax rate 
(tarifliche Gewerbesteuerbelastung ) of the relevant company  in each case,  as is to be 
determined taking into account the Tax base amount (Steuermessbetrag), the applicable 
multipliers (Hebesätze) and the applicable Tax breakdown formula  (Zerlegungsmaßstab)  
in the reference  period of recognition  of the contribution gain. In the event of a reduction  
of corporate income Tax loss carryforwards and/or trade Tax losses, however, the 
indemnification obligation pursuant to (ii) and (iii) of the preceding sentence does not 
apply if and to the extent that the reduced corporate income Tax loss carryforwards and/or 
trade Tax losses, had they not been used for offsetting against  the contribution gain, would 
have been  lost without  being used up to the point  in time when an indemnification 
obligation had arisen (e.g. under Section  8c of the German Corporate Income Tax Act 
(Körperschaftsteuergesetz, "KStG")) or Section  12 (3) sentence 2 UmwStG);  in the event 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
that higher income is subsequently assessed that could have  been used for offsetting against 
(otherwise lost) loss carryforwards or losses prior to their notional loss, the indemnification 
obligation also applies  to these amounts.
5.3 In the course of the legal  separation of the Siemens Energy  Business, SBI GmbH  (as a 
transferring entity)  contributed its partnership interest  in Siemens Energy KG into Siemens 
Energy AG (as the receiving  entity)  in exchange for the granting of shares in Siemens 
Energy AG. The Parties have  contractually  agreed that the contribution is to be effected at 
book value for Tax purposes  pursuant to Section  20 (2) sentence 2 UmwStG.  Accordingly, 
Siemens Energy  AG has undertaken  to recognize  the received business  assets at their book 
values for Tax purposes and to submit the book value application necessary  for this purpose  
by the applicable  deadline. If Siemens Energy AG fails to comply  with any of these 
obligations, Siemens Energy AG will pay to Siemens AG or, at the option of the latter, to 
SBI GmbH an amount equal  to the sum of (i) the Taxes assessed  against  Siemens AG and 
SBI GmbH as a result and (ii) the  nominal amount  of the consequently reduced corporate  
income Tax loss carryforwards at Siemens  AG and SBI GmbH  multiplied by the corporate  
income Tax rate applicable in the Tax assessment  period of recognition of the contribution 
gain, plus solidarity surcharge.  The last sentence  of § 5.2 applies accordingly in this 
respect.
5.4 In the course of the bundling and the legal separation of the Siemens Energy Business, 
shares that are subject  to a blocking period (sperrfristbehaftete  Anteile)  within the meaning 
of Section 22 (1) UmwStG have  been or will be created ("Shares  Subject to a Blocking 
Period")  as follows:
a)those shares granted  to Siemens  AG (as the transferring entity) in SBI GmbH  (as the 
receiving entity) for contributing a  partnership  interest in  Siemens Energy  KG;
b)those shares  granted  to SBI GmbH (as the transferring entity) in Siemens Energy  AG 
(as the receiving entity) for  contributing a partnership interest in  Siemens Energy KG.
Thus, Siemens AG and SBI GmbH each hold Shares Subject to a Blocking  Period  that have 
been or will be created  based on the Tax-neutral  contribution of shares in Siemens Energy 
KG at book values pursuant to Section 20 (2) sentence 2 UmwStG.
5.5 If Siemens  AG, SBI GmbH or Siemens Energy KG were to be taxed for any contribution 
gain I (Einbringungsgewinn I)  in respect of the Shares Subject to a Blocking Period 
pursuant to Section 22 (1) UmwStG, (including  as a consequence of the occurrence  of any 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
alternative realization event (Ersatzrealisationstatbestand) within the meaning of 
Section 22 (1) sentence 6 nos. 1 to 6 UmwStG), the following  applies:
a)To the extent that the contribution gain I has been  caused  by Siemens AG or SBI GmbH 
(e.g. by selling  the Shares Subject to a Blocking Period),  Siemens AG will pay to 
Siemens Energy AG an amount equal to the sum of (i) the trade Tax assessed  against 
Siemens Energy KG as a result and (ii) the nominal amount of the consequently 
reduced trade Tax deficits at Siemens Energy  KG multiplied by the average trade Tax 
rate of Siemens Energy KG, as is to be determined taking into account  the Tax base 
amount, the applicable multipliers and the applicable Tax breakdown  formula in the 
reference period of recognition of the contribution gain.  A payment  claim  for reduced 
trade Tax losses only exists insofar  as the use of such losses  has not been excluded by 
the transfer of the partnership interests  (Mitunternehmeranteile) in Siemens Energy KG 
from Siemens  AG and SBI GmbH to Siemens Energy AG; in all other respects,  the last 
sentence of § 5.2 applies accordingly. The indemnification claim of Siemens 
Energy AG is reduced by the cash value of any potential Tax benefit  that may arise for 
Siemens Energy AG and/or Siemens Energy KG under the step-up approach  pursuant 
to Section 23 (2) UmwStG ("Step-up Benefit "). The cash value of the Step-up Benefit 
is to be calculated  at a flat rate not taking into account the actual facts and the actual 
Tax situation of these companies and is to be deducted as follows: 
The cash value of the Step-up Benefit  to be deducted will be calculated by (i), in 
a first step, determining the Tax burden on the contribution gain I at a flat rate, 
applying the corporate income Tax rate applicable to Siemens Energy AG in the 
accounting year in which the event  triggering  the Taxation of the contribution 
gain occurs, plus solidarity surcharge,  and applying the average trade Tax rate 
applicable to Siemens Energy KG in the reference period in which the event  
triggering the Taxation  of the contribution  gain occurs, as is to be determined 
taking into account the applicable Tax base amount, the applicable  multipliers 
and the applicable Tax breakdown formula,  and (ii), in a second step, by 
discounting the amount of Tax so determined with a discount factor of 2 % p.a. 
applied to 50 % of the amount of Tax over an assumed  general linear  
depreciation period of ten (10) years  starting  with the accounting year in which  
the event triggering  the Taxation of the contribution gain occurs  and to the 
remaining 50 % of the amount of Tax over an assumed general  linear 
depreciation period of eight  (8) years starting  with the second  accounting year 
following the accounting  year in which  the event triggering the Taxation of the 
contribution gain occurs.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
If and to the extent  that the Step-up Benefit to be deducted exceeds the amount payable 
by Siemens  AG under this § 5.5 a)  without that Step-up  Benefit, Siemens Energy  AG 
will pay to Siemens  AG an amount equal to the difference. As regards this exceeding  
amount, it has to be assumed when calculating the  net present value  of the Step-up  
Benefit to be deducted and the amount payable by Siemens  AG without this Step-up 
Benefit in the event of a sale of Shares  Subject to a Blocking Period irrespective of the 
actual sequence of events that Siemens AG and SBI GmbH  first sold those  Shares 
Subject to a Blocking  Period  in Siemens Energy  AG that, compared to the other Shares  
Subject to a Blocking Period,  include lower or no taxable hidden reserves (stille 
Reserven)  (in respect  of the assets contributed  in exchange for the shares) to the extent  
that Siemens AG or SBI GmbH  can freely dispose of such shares that include lower  or 
no taxable hidden reserves; this does not apply if Siemens  AG and SBI GmbH sell to a 
third party outside the group or for good cause to an affiliated company all shares in 
Siemens Energy  AG in a single economic transaction. If, however, shares  are 
subsequently sold during  the relevant holding period  that include lower taxable  hidden 
reserves compared to the Shares Subject to a Blocking Period  that were previously sold, 
it is to be assumed  for the purpose of determining  the excess amount when calculating 
the net present value of the Step-up Benefit to be deducted and the amount payable by 
Siemens AG without this Step-up Benefit,  that the previously sold Shares Subject to a 
Blocking Period with the higher taxable hidden reserves had only been sold at this later 
time and Siemens Energy AG will pay Siemens AG the excess amount  determined 
accordingly. The Parties  agree  that the order  of the divestitures assumed in accordance 
with the foregoing sentences is not relevant for the determination of the Step-Up 
Benefit to be deducted from any indemnification  claim of Siemens Energy AG pursuant  
to sentences 3 and 4 of § 5.5 a), but only for the amount  of any payment claim  of 
Siemens AG  in respect  of any excess amount  of the Step-Up Benefit.
b)To the extent that contribution gain I has been caused by Siemens Energy AG or 
Siemens Energy  KG, Siemens Energy AG will pay to Siemens AG an amount equal to 
the sum of (i) the corporate income Tax assessed  against  Siemens AG and SBI GmbH  
as a result, plus solidarity surcharge, and (ii) the nominal amount  of the consequently 
reduced corporate income Tax loss carryforwards at Siemens AG and SBI GmbH 
multiplied by the corporate income  Tax rate applicable in the Tax assessment period of 
recognition of the contribution gain, plus solidarity surcharge.  The last sentence  of § 5.2 
applies accordingly in this  respect.
c)For the purposes of the above  letters a) and b), the contribution  gain I shall be deemed  
to have been caused if it is triggered  by conduct  within the meaning of Section 22 (1) 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
sentence 1 or sentence 6 UmwStG of the relevant company, i.e., Siemens AG and SBI 
GmbH in the case of § 5.5 a) or Siemens  Energy AG and Siemens  Energy KG in the 
case of § 5.5 b) above.  The exercise or non-exercise  of shareholder rights of Siemens 
AG or SBI GmbH in their respective  role as shareholder in Siemens  Energy AG (e.g. 
voting rights at the annual general  meeting  or on the supervisory board) are not to be 
deemed relevant conduct in this  sense .
d)To the extent that Siemens Energy AG is obliged  under this § 5.5 to make a payment 
to Siemens AG, 50 % of the amount  so payable will be due for payment  immediately 
and the remaining 50 % will be due and payable twenty-four (24) months after the first 
installment; in the case of § 5.5 b), the second installment shall bear interest at a rate of 
2 % p.a.
5.6 To the extent that any Party or any of its group companies, by an act performed after the 
spin-off taking effect  with retroactive effect  under Tax law, causes  Tax to be imposed on 
the other Party  or that Party's  group  companies or causes  reductions of corporate income 
Tax loss carryforwards  or trade Tax losses, the Party  that (or whose group company) has 
performed the relevant action  will pay to the other Party  or, at its option, to that Party's 
relevant group company, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Tax assessed  against the 
other Party  and that Party's  group companies  as a result, and (ii) the nominal amount of the 
consequently reduced  corporate  income  Tax loss carryforwards  available to the other Party  
and that Party's group  companies,  multiplied by the corporate income Tax rate applicable 
in the relevant Tax assessment period, plus solidarity surcharge,  and (iii) the nominal 
amount of the consequently  reduced  trade Tax losses at the other Party and that Party's 
group companies,  multiplied by the average trade Tax rate applicable to the relevant 
company, as is to be determined  taking  into account the applicable Tax base amount,  the 
applicable multipliers and the applicable Tax breakdown formula  in the reference  period 
of recognition  of the contribution  gain. Claims under this § 5.6 will only exist if and to the 
extent that the facts  constituting the claim have not already been covered by § 5.2, § 5.3 or 
§ 5.5.
5.7 To the extent that a Party violates its duties to cooperate pursuant to § 6, that Party  will pay 
to the other Party or, at its option, to that Party's group  company concerned, an amount 
equal to the sum of (i) the Taxes assessed  against  the other Party  and that Party's group 
companies as a result and (ii) the  nominal amount of the consequently  reduced corporate 
income Tax loss carryforwards available  to the other Party  and that Party's  group 
companies, multiplied by the corporate income Tax rate applicable in the relevant Tax 
assessment period,  plus solidarity surcharge, and (iii) the nominal amount of the 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
consequently reduced  trade Tax losses available to the other Party and that Party's  group 
companies, multiplied by the average trade Tax rate of the respective  company, as is to be 
determined taking into account the applicable  Tax base amount,  the applicable multipliers 
and the applicable  Tax breakdown formula in the reference period of recognition of the 
contribution gain, whereby in the cases of (ii) and (iii) above, the last sentence of § 5.2 
applies accordingly,  and (iv) the  external  costs incurred by the other Party or its group 
company as a result of the violation, if and to the extent that the amount to be reimbursed 
pursuant to (i) through (iv) has been caused (directly) by the violation  of duties or could 
have been avoided absent the violation  of duties, unless the other Party  demonstrates that 
the corresponding  Tax, the reduction of corporate  income Tax loss carryforwards and/or 
trade Tax losses and/or the relevant  external  costs would  have arisen  even if the relevant 
Party had properly complied with its cooperation duties. In the following cases,  there is the 
refutable presumption that the amount to be reimbursed has been caused (directly) by the 
violation of  duties: (i)  a pro forma Tax return  within the meaning  of § 6.2 (if applicable, 
in conjunction with § 6.3) has not been provided to the other Party  or has been provided 
with such a delay that the other Party  is unable  to take that Tax return into account  in its 
own Tax return,  or any pro forma  Tax return provided is incorrect or incomplete in any 
material respect; (ii) any  Party has acted in any Tax proceedings without obtaining the 
consent of the other  Party  required pursuant to § 6.4; (iii)  violations  of § 6.5. 
5.8 The Party that, under the preceding paragraphs of § 5, is obligated to make  a payment must 
additionally pay to the other  Party or that Party's group company concerned an amount that 
is necessary to put the other  Party or that Party's group company in a position that it will 
receive in total that amount after Taxes that it would have retained without Taxation of its 
claim and/or the payment  made  (gross-up).
5.9 If and to the extent that the reduction of corporate income Tax loss carryforwards and/or 
trade Tax losses is to be reimbursed in principle in accordance with this § 5, the actual 
Taxes that are subsequently  payable because these loss carryforwards and/or Tax losses  
are not available will not have  to be reimbursed additionally.
5.10 Claims  under this § 5 will become due for payment ten (10) business days after receipt of 
a written  notice in which the creditor has informed  the debtor  of the claim and the relevant 
payment amount accompanied by copies of the relevant Tax assessment notice or the 
relevant loss determination notice  (Verlustfeststellungsbescheid) (including those 
documents that demonstrate the grounds and the amount  of the claim  in a verifiable 
manner). Where  the indemnification claim relates to a Tax assessed, it will become due 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
and payable at the earliest three (3) Business Days before  the relevant Tax is due for 
payment to the  relevant Tax authority.  
5.11 Claims  under  this § 5 will become time-barred six (6) months after (and provided that) the 
underlying Tax assessment or loss determination has become formally and materially 
binding and unappealable  (formell und materiell bestandskräftig ) however (i) no earlier 
than after expiry  of six (6) months after the spin-off taking  effect and (ii) no later than eight 
(8) years after the spin-off taking effect. 
5.12 Claims  under  this § 5 must be determined and calculated with a view  to avoiding  an 
economic over- or under-compensation of Taxes, corporate income Tax loss 
carryforwards, trade Tax losses, external  costs or Step-up Benefits due to taking into 
account the same  facts  several times over.
5.13 The provisions  set forth  in § 5 of this Group Separation Agreement take precedence over 
any provisions contradictory in content  in the Establishment Agreements.
§ 6
Cooperation in  Tax  Matters  
6.1 The Parties will cooperate closely as permitted by law in matters relating to Taxes  with the 
aim of reducing the Tax burden for both Parties  and of their respective  group  companies 
and, as the case may be, obtaining  a refund  of Taxes. To the extent legally permissible, the 
Parties shall also procure that their respective group companies cooperate accordingly. 
Such cooperation shall, in particular, include the procurement and making  available of 
proof and evidence  relevant  for matters  of Taxation (e.g. proofs pursuant  to Section  22 (3) 
UmwStG, residency certificates necessary  for claiming treaty relief, certificates necessary 
for claiming a refund or credit of withholding Taxes). Furthermore, the Parties shall, in 
compliance with respective applicable Tax laws, procure  that the required data processing  
is performed (including storage) and allow  access to data relating to the Tax-relevant  
transactions (in particular,  billing statements  prepared  in the name and for the account of 
Siemens AG for  end customers  in the Siemens Energy pre-systems (Vorsystemen)). 
6.2 To the extent that any Tax proceeding of Siemens AG or of any of its group companies  
existing after the spin-off taking effect (Siemens  AG and its group companies "SAG  
Companies" and each an "SAG Company") relates  to the Siemens Energy Business, 
Siemens Energy  AG will provide  Siemens AG with all information relating thereto  for the 
relevant SAG Company to be able to fulfill its obligations under the respective applicable 
Tax laws timely, completely and correctly; this includes  the right of SAG Companies to be 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
granted access to and use electronically stored data at Siemens Energy AG or at any of its 
group companies existing after the spin-off takes  effect (Siemens Energy AG and its group 
companies "SEAG Companies" and each an "SEAG Company"). For that purpose,  
Siemens Energy AG will in particular procure  that, for each relevant Taxable period, pro 
forma Tax returns will be prepared and provided  to Siemens AG. The pro forma  Tax 
returns are to be prepared in compliance  with the respective applicable Tax laws, i.e. as if 
the relevant  Siemens  Company has in the relevant Taxable period generated solely income, 
revenue and/or turnover allocable  to the respective  Siemens Energy Business  ("stand-
alone"-perspective).  The pro forma Tax returns  (together with the underlying documents, 
attachments and calculations) shall be provided  to Siemens  AG for review no later than 
(i) thirty  (30) Business Days prior  to expiration of the filing  period of the return  to be filed 
by the relevant SAG  Company or (ii) in case the filing deadline is less than thirty  (30) 
Business Days, the expiry  of half of the relevant  filing deadline. § 6.2 applies  accordingly 
vice versa, i.e., to the extent  that Tax proceedings of SEAG Companies relate  to the 
business that remains  with the SAG  Companies, Siemens AG shall  cooperate  with Siemens 
Energy AG accordingly.
6.3 To the extent  that, in the course  of the consolidation of the Siemens Energy Business  into 
Siemens Energy  KG and/or of the legal separation of the Siemens Energy Business, 
contracts that are part of the Siemens Energy Business legally remain with Siemens AG or 
with any other  SAG Company,  Siemens Energy AG will provide Siemens AG with all 
information relating thereto  for the relevant SAG Company to be able to fulfill its 
obligations under  the respective  applicable Tax laws timely,  completely and correctly;  
§ 6.2 applies accordingly in this context.  To the extent that Siemens AG has further 
cooperation rights in connection with such agreements on other legal grounds, such rights 
remain unaffected hereby.
6.4 Subject to the preceding § 6.2, the SAG Companies on the one hand and the SEAG 
Companies on the other hand shall each conduct their own Tax proceedings independently 
without the involvement of the other Party. However,  to the extent that a Tax proceeding 
at a SAG Company relate to Taxes  or Tax refunds owed by a SEAG Company  (including 
by way of a secondary liability  or pursuant  to other obligations) or respectively to which 
any SEAG Company is entitled  or conversely  to the extent any Tax proceedings of an 
SEAG Company  relate  to Taxes or Tax refunds owed by a SAG  Company (including  by 
way of a secondary liability or pursuant to other obligations) or respectively to which a 
SAG Company is entitled (e.g. pursuant to a former Tax group between a SAG Company 
and a SEAG Company), the Parties shall cooperate in good faith in respect  of such Tax 
proceedings. For that purpose, the Parties  shall procure  that prior to taking any action in 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
the relevant  Tax proceeding (such as filing Tax returns or an appeal), the agreement of the 
respective other Party  is sought on how to proceed.  If the Parties are unable to reach  an 
agreement, such Party shall  decide that bears (or whose group company bears) more than 
50 % of the relevant  Taxes or are entitled to more  than 50 % of the relevant  Tax refunds. 
If the Tax or Tax refunds are borne by the Parties in equal parts, the Party shall decide that 
is (or whose group company is) formally  the participant of the Tax proceeding.  The Party 
entitled to take the final decision shall reasonably consider the legitimate interests of the 
other Party, taking  into consideration the Tax allocation quota, and shall avoid that the 
reputation or  business interests of the other  Party are materially impaired. 
6.5 To the extent that any domestic or international Tax group or income Tax consolidation 
scheme exists  or existed between any SEAG Company  and any SAG Company in periods  
prior to the spin-off taking effect (Vollzug der Abspaltung), the Parties  will (i) procure that 
such Tax group or income Tax consolidation  scheme  remain effective for these periods,  
(ii) refrain from  taking  any measures that would result  in the non-recognition of such Tax 
group or income Tax consolidation  scheme for these periods,  and (iii) in the event the Tax 
authorities challenge  such Tax group or income  Tax consolidation scheme  (e.g. pursuant 
to section 14 (1) sentence 1 no. 3 sentence  4 KStG take any remedy measures required (e.g. 
the correction  of commercial balance  sheets or the payment of amounts to ensure that the 
correct profits or losses are transferred). The Parties  agree that the cooperation under  this 
§ 6.5 and the respective measures  shall not to result in a reallocation or shift of assets 
between any SAG Company  and any SEAG Company.  To the extent such measures result 
in such a reallocation  or shift of assets, the  Parties  will financially indemnify each other . 
6.6 The internal costs at Siemens AG, Siemens Energy AG, any SAG  Company and/or any 
SEAG Company  that arise  in connection  with the fulfillment of the obligations set forth in 
§ 5 and § 6 of this Group  Separation Agreement  and any costs of their advisors are borne  
by the Parties in each case themselves.  The provisions contained in any of the 
Establishment Agreements  remain unaffected hereby.
6.7 If and to the extent a suspension of payment, a deferral  or other  similar postponement of 
the due date has been granted upon request,  the Party  which initiated the request  for such 
suspension, deferral or other postponement is responsible for any security  to be provided 
in this respect and shall also bear any interest in connection  with such suspension, deferral 
or other  postponement.
6.8 Whenever in § 5 and § 6 a reference is made  to a certain legal entity, this reference  shall, 
for the avoidance  of doubt, always  include  any legal successor of the referred  entity. 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
6.9 Upon written request of Siemens AG, Siemens Energy AG shall procure that an 
internationally acknowledged  accounting  firm is appointed in consultation with 
Siemens AG to carry out the obligations of Siemens Energy AG as set out in this § 6 for 
and on behalf  of Siemens Energy  AG. 
6.10 To the extent they make reference  to § 5, the provisions set forth  in § 6.6 and § 6.8 of this 
Group Separation  Agreement take precedence over any provisions  contradictory in content 
in the Establishment Agreements.
§ 7
Confidentiality  
7.1 Information  that is available to any Party or its group companies  about the other  Party or 
its group  companies due to the joint group affiliation  of the businesses  that exists  until the 
spin-off taking effect  and information that is provided later on the basis of rights  to 
information under  this Group  Separation  Agreement or the Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement is referred to hereinafter as "Confidential Information ."
7.2 Confidential Information is not information
a)that was or has become known already to the general public, unless this is the result of 
the breach  of any duty of confidentiality  under  this Agreement; or
b)to which any Party  or any of its group  companies was or has been  provided access 
legitimately already through third parties without limitation as regards use and 
disclosure; or
c)that has been developed by any Party or its group companies independently of the other 
Party or  its group companies.
7.3 Each Party is obligated with respect to the other Party  
a)to keep Confidential Information secret  at all times and to disclose no Confidential 
Information to persons outside of their respective groups  without the prior  written 
consent of the other Party or its group company; consent is deemed given if and to the 
extent that a disclosure is  provided for in the respective Establishment Agreements;
b)to prevent the unauthorized disclosure  of, and access of unauthorized third parties to, 
Confidential Information;
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
c)to make  all necessary  arrangements  to preclude a violation of the provisions of the 
General Data Protection Regulation and of the German Federal Data Protection Act 
(Bundesdatenschutzgesetz); and
d)to inform the other Party without undue delay if it becomes  aware that Confidential 
Information has  been disclosed to any third party without authorization.
The standard for the duty of care pursuant to § 7.3 letter  b) of this Group  Separation 
Agreement is deemed  to be the arrangements  that the other Party  in each case makes to 
protect its  own confidential information.
The disclosure to group companies is permissible only if there is an objectively  justifying  
reason for such disclosure. The disclosure  to advisors or auditors who are under an 
obligation of confidentiality by operation of law or pursuant to German professional law 
(Berufsrecht)  is permissible. 
7.4 Each Party will ensure  that its group companies comply with the foregoing  obligations of 
§ 7.
If any Party  or any of its group companies  is obligated to make  a disclosure by law, on the 
basis of any statutory provision,  any stock exchange rule, any other regulatory provision 
or any contractual obligation agreed  prior to this Group Separation  Agreement  taking effect 
or if any public authority requests  a disclosure  be made in a manner that is not obviously 
illegal, the Party or the group company may disclose Confidential Information to the 
authorized persons to that  extent.
7.5 Group companies  of a Party within the meaning of this § 7 are also companies  that become  
group companies  of that Party within the meaning of Section 18 AktG after the spin-off 
taking effect.
7.6 The provisions of this § 7 take precedence over any provisions contradictory in content in 
the Establishment  Agreements.
§ 8
Information  Sharing, Rights to Documents  and Cooperation Duties  
8.1 Siemens AG and Siemens Energy AG intend following the spin-off  taking effect  to share 
information to the extent legally  permissible. Information may be disclosed to any Party  
only to the extent  that this is legally  permissible  and is in line with the corporate  interests 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
of the Party disclosing  the information. Any disclosure of information  by any Party requires  
a prior request for information by the other Party that must  indicate  the specific purpose of 
the information being requested. The request  for information is to be reviewed in exercise 
of due discretion. If the review concludes  that the aforementioned  requirements for a 
disclosure of information are not met or that the information being requested should not be 
disclosed in exercise of due discretion, this conclusion is to be shared  with the other Party.
8.2 Siemens Energy AG and its group companies will receive all business  records related or 
attributable to the Siemens Energy  Business pursuant  to each of the Establishment 
Agreements entered into. Siemens Energy  AG and its group companies will also receive 
all deeds necessary  to assert  the rights transferred to it in connection with the establishment 
of the Siemens Energy  Business, the Contribution Agreement  or the Spin-off and Transfer 
Agreement in each case.  Siemens Energy  AG and its group companies  will maintain the 
books and other  records for the statutory retention periods  and ensure that Siemens AG and 
its group companies  can inspect  and, to the extent they are not already available, photocopy 
these business  records to the extent  that there  is a legitimate interest in such records.  There 
is such a legitimate interest  if a document relates  to the time of joint affiliation in the 
Siemens Group until the spin-off  taking effect.
8.3 All business records related or attributable to the remaining Siemens business  remain  with 
Siemens AG and its group companies  after the spin-off taking effect. All deeds necessary 
to assert the rights  remaining with the remaining  Siemens business  remain with Siemens  
AG and its group companies. Siemens AG and its group companies will maintain  the books  
and other records for the statutory  retention periods and ensure that Siemens Energy AG 
and its group  companies can inspect and, to the extent they are not already available,  
photocopy these  business records to the extent that there  is a legitimate interest in such 
records.
8.4 After the statutory  retention  periods expire,  each Party  and its group companies may 
destroy business records, writings, books  and other notes  relating to the time of joint 
affiliation in the Siemens  Group  until the spin-off  taking  effect  relevant to the other Party.  
If and to the extent that provisions  have already been stipulated  with respect to records 
relating to guarantees  provided by Siemens AG, such records remain unaffected by the 
foregoing provision.
8.5 To the extent legally  permissible, the Parties will assist each other in compliance issues, 
administrative proceedings and legal  disputes that relate to (inter alia) the fields of 
operation of the other  Party.  In particular, to the extent legally permissible, the Parties will 
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
provide each other with any and all information and documents necessary or expedient for 
the handling of compliance issues and for the fulfillment of Tax or other  administrative 
requirements or for the production of evidence  to the Tax authorities, other public  
authorities or the courts, and will each endeavor that reasonable assistance is provided by 
their respective employees. All powers of representation in respect of courts and public 
authorities remain unaffected. § 6 contains  exhaustive provisions with regard  to Tax 
matters (in particular, Tax proceedings  and legal  disputes and external Tax audits).
8.6 The Parties will agree on appropriate  provisions for the distribution of any costs that arise  
in connection  with the  fulfillment of the  provisions set  forth in  § 8.
8.7 The provisions of this § 8 take precedence over any provisions contradictory in content in 
the Establishment  Agreements.  
§ 9
Assertion and Fulfillment of Claims
9.1 This Group Separation Agreement  entitles and obligates exclusively  the Parties. Claims  
and obligations under  this Group Separation  Agreement must be asserted  and fulfilled 
exclusively between the Parties.  However,  each Party may demand  from the other Party 
regarding its claims  under  this Group Separation Agreement  for performance to be 
rendered to any group company  designated  and authorized by it to accept  performance. 
Each Party  may also employ  any of its group companies as assistants in performance  
(Erfüllungsgehilfen) to fulfill  its obligations under this Agreement.
9.2 Each Party will endeavor and ensure  that it and its group companies comply with and/or 
fulfill the provisions of this Group Separation Agreement and, in particular, do not assert 
any claims contrary to the provisions of this Group Separation Agreement against the other 
Party and its group companies.  Each Party will also endeavor and ensure  that it and its 
group companies employed  by it to fulfill its obligations under this Group  Separation 
Agreement act  in accordance with the provisions of this Group Separation Agreement. 
9.3 Claims  under  this Group Separation Agreement may be assigned by any Party only with 
the consent of the other  Party. In this respect, assignments  are permitted only to group 
companies of  the assigning Party.
9.4 Group companies  of a Party within the meaning of this § 9 are also companies  that become  
group companies  of that Party within the meaning of Section 18 AktG after the spin-off 
taking effect.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
§ 10
Dispute Resolution, Arbitration Clause
10.1 The Parties will endeavor  to amicably resolve any disputes  arising  under or in connection 
with this Group Separation Agreement  (including under the agreements entered into for its 
performance). Upon request by any Party, a representative  from  the upper  management  of 
both Parties will take part in the negotiations. Any Party may declare these efforts  canceled 
at any time by written declaration  to the other Party.  The Parties will endeavor to agree  on 
proceedings for an alternative  dispute resolution (ADR) and on rules for such proceedings 
(including the time schedule)  within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt of such a 
cancelation declaration. If such an agreement is not reached, any Party  may initiate 
arbitration proceedings pursuant to § 10.2. 
10.2 Any disputes  under or in connection with this Group Separation Agreement or concerning  
its validity that are not resolved pursuant  to § 10.1, including any disputes relating to the 
termination or subsequent  amendment of this Group  Separation Agreement, will be finally 
decided by an arbitral tribunal  in accordance  with the Rules of Arbitration of the 
International Chamber  of Commerce ("ICC")  in the relevant valid  version, the provisions 
of the Spin-off and Transfer Agreement  entered into between the Parties notwithstanding. 
The arbitral tribunal shall  also decide with binding  effect on the validity of this arbitration 
clause. The place of arbitration is Munich. The number of arbitrators  is three.  Each Party 
appoints one arbitrator to be confirmed  by the ICC. These two arbitrators appoint the third 
arbitrator within  (thirty) 30 days of their appointment.  If the two arbitrators cannot  agree  
on the third arbitrator within this period of time, the third arbitrator will be appointed by 
the ICC. 
The language of the ADR and the arbitration proceedings is German. An order for the 
presentation of documents is permitted  only to the extent that any of the Parties refers 
explicitly to the documents in its written submissions. The consolidation of several  
arbitration proceedings pending at the ICC into singular arbitration proceedings is 
permitted only with the consent  of both Parties.  The Emergency Arbitrator Provisions do 
not apply.
10.3 The provisions of this § 10 do not constitute any limitation of the right of the Parties to 
request injunctive  relief  at the competent state  courts or at the arbitral tribunal.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
§ 11
Final Provisions
11.1 This Group Separation Agreement  will take effect upon the spin-off taking effect. 
11.2 This Group Separation Agreement is governed by the laws of the Federal Republic of 
Germany to the exclusion of its conflict  of law rules.  
11.3 Amendments or supplements to this Group Separation  Agreement, including any 
amendments to or the contracting-out of this provision,  require written form unless stricter 
requirements of form  must be complied with. 
11.4 Any claims under this Group Separation Agreement  become time-barred upon expiration 
of 31 December 2030 to the extent  not otherwise  explicitly provided for in this Group 
Separation Agreement. In case the spin-off taking effect  in 2021, this point in time is 
thereby postponed to the expiration of 31 December 2031;  in the event  of the spin-off 
taking effect  later,  any claims under this Group  Separation Agreement  become time-barred 
upon expiration  of 31 December  of the year which is ten years  after the year of the spin-
off taking effect.
11.5 If one or more  provisions in this Group Separation Agreement are or become completely 
or partially void, invalid or impracticable, the validity  of this Group Separation Agreement 
and its other  provisions will not be affected thereby.  In such case, the void, invalid or 
impracticable provision will be deemed  replaced  by a provision that comes as close as 
possible to what was originally intended  by the Parties in terms of form,  content,  time, 
measure and scope  of applicability in accordance with the commercial intent and purpose 
of the void, invalid or impracticable provision. This applies  accordingly if this Group 
Separation Agreement  lacks any  provisions.
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
List of Annexes
Annex 4.4  Documents, Disclosures and Deadlines for Regular  Reporting
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
Annex 4.4 Information, Time Limits and  Disclosures for Regular  Reporting 
Regular reporting comprises the following  financial information necessary for the proper 
accounting of the participation in Siemens Energy AG that will continue  to be held directly and 
indirectly by Siemens AG based on the equity  method under IAS 28 and for the fulfillment of the 
disclosure obligations pursuant to IFRS 12. 
The indicated reporting deadlines align  with Siemens AG's time schedule for its financial  
statements and  indicate  the latest possible reporting date. 
Financial Information Reporting Date Submission Deadline
Development of the assets and liabilities 
identified/revaluated in the context of the 
purchase price allocation  quarterly (31 Dec.;  
31 Mar.; 30 Jun.; 
30 Sep.)end of month + 
10 working days; 9am 
(30 Sep.: end of month 
+ 12)
Net income allocable to the shareholders of 
Siemens Energy AGquarterly end of month + 
13 working days; 9am 
(30 Sep.: end of month 
+ 15)
Consolidated statement  of changes in equity quarterly end of month + 
13 working days; 9am
(30 Sep.: end of month 
+ 15)
Summarized financial  information in 
accordance with IFRS 12 B12 (b):
(i) current  assets
(ii) non-current assets
(iii) current  liabilities
(iv) non-current liabilities
(v) revenues
(vi) profit  or loss  from continuing 
operations
(vii) net profit or loss from discontinued 
operations
(viii) other profit or loss
(ix) net profit or lossannually (30 Sep.)
end of month + 
15 working days; 9am
- Convenience Translation – only the German version  is binding –
Annex  20 to  the Spin-off and Transfer  Agreement
In addition, Siemens Energy AG will disclose  to Siemens  AG information  necessary for the correct 
recognition of the aforementioned financial information in the quarterly, half-year and annual 
financial reporting of Siemens AG.