siemens-energy.com/storageStoring energy:  
A major building block  
for our energy future
White paper
Intro
Our energy world is changing – fast. We 
face a global push towards decarbonization. 
The share of renewables is rapidly in -
creasing, leading to a fluctuating power 
supply. Power generation is more and more 
decentralized. At the same time, energy 
demand keeps increasing, requiring a steady 
and uninterrupted supply of energy. To 
master these challenges, we need to create 
new energy systems that can reach the  
goal of creating a global, carbon-neutral 
economy by the middle of the century.
To reach this goal, we need flexible, net-
zero energy systems that enable sector 
coupling with new ways of generating, 
storing, and using energy. Renewable power 
plays a central role in this regard, since it 
can be transferred to all energy consuming sectors (as heat, electricity, or e-fuel), be it 
buildings, mobility, industry, or agriculture. 
In turn, there won’t be any need to burn 
fossil fuels, meaning these sectors will also 
decarbonize. 
For this vision to become reality, various 
building blocks must be in place. The genera -
tion of renewable energy (especially via PV 
and wind) still must increase significantly; 
intelligent, data-driven tools capable of 
managing a decentralized energy system 
have to be rolled out; current fossil power 
plants either need to be phased out or, in the 
meantime, be converted to more efficient 
low-emission plants; and hydrogen produc -
tion must become more affordable. And 
while all this may seem like a tall order, the 
fact is these building blocks are necessary for 
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2
“Energy storage will be essential for the 
transition to a decarbonised economy 
based on renewable energy sources. As 
electricity generated by wind or solar 
energy is not always available in the 
quantities needed, we will need to store 
more. Apart from technologies that we 
already know work well like pumped 
hydro storage, a number of technologies 
will play a crucial role in the future, such 
as new battery technologies, thermal 
storage or green hydrogen. These must 
be given market access to ensure a 
constant energy supply for European 
citizens.”1
Claudia Gamon  
Member of the European Parliament
1 European Parliament (2020): 
Boost energy storage in EU to 
help spur decarbonisation 
[Website ‘News European 
Parliament’; press release].fighting climate change while ensuring 
affordable and reliable energy for everybody. 
The world is already moving in this direction – 
admittedly at different speeds in various 
places, but the direction is unmistakable.
Arguably the most important element of 
this vision will be energy storage, allowing 
steady energy flow, grid stability, and 24 / 7 
availability of renewable power. Storage 
systems help build the new energy world. 
Specifically, batteries  play an important role 
today and into the future, as they allow the 
balancing of load differences, provide peak 
capacity and ancillary services to the grid, 
make (micro) grids smarter – and, as an 
additional benefit, they enable carbon-free 
black-start capabilities. Additionally,  rotating 
grid stabilizers (RGS)  support grid stability 
by replacing system inertia of conventional 
power generation units. Furthermore, 
thermal energy  storage systems capture 
heat produced by renewable energy or from 
waste heat or exhaust gas. They can be used 
for district heating, to decarbonize industrial 
heat systems, or to unlock large capacities 
for firming renewable power output. Finally, 
green hydrogen  will enable long-term (e. g. 
seasonal, island, remote) storage that, in 
combination with other storage solutions, 
allows the efficient coupling of all sectors of 
the economy. So, simply put, without energy 
storage systems, the future we all strive for 
will not come about.
In this paper, we’ll give an overview of 
ener  gy storage systems and outline the 
priorities lying ahead of us for creating our energy future. We’ll show what they can do 
today, what their potential is for the future, 
and which hurdles may still need to be 
addressed. Although there are certainly 
challenges, the path ahead is clear – energy 
storage will be the central element for 
making our economy flexible, resilient, and 
reliable while keeping it sustainable and 
carbon-free.
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 3
Fig. 1: Batteries support 
 carbon-free energy production, 
as they address the volatility of 
renewable energy sources by 
storing energy when it’s available 
in abundance and providing it 
when there’s a shortage.Today, utilities, transmission system opera -
tors, and industries confront a variety of 
challenges. Regardless of their location and 
varying demands, they face social pressure 
to decarbonize while at the same time, risk 
ruining their reputations if they appear to  
be acting too slowly. As long as they emit 
CO₂, they sometimes pay a high price for it. 
And once energy utilities close down fossil-  
fired power plants, they’ll need to manage 
stranded assets.
At the same time, with the increasing share 
of renewables, another challenge arises:  
the need for stability – of the grid, energy 
prices, and the flow of energy. As renew -
ables fluctuate, energy prices tend to be 
more volatile, while operators are chal -
lenged to cost-efficiently match energy 
supply and demand and ensure grid sta -
bility. That’s why energy producers respond 
to a downturn in renewable supply by 
relying on fossil-fired power plants. And  
if there is more renewable power than 
needed, they may have to curtail output, 
thereby wasting valuable green energy 
when demand is fully met. 
So, what can you do? While today’s energy 
producers respond to grid fluctuations by 
primarily relying on fossil-fired power 
plants, energy storage solutions will take on 
a dominant role in fulfilling this need in the 
future. That’s why today, battery storage 
systems are being used more and more as an efficient way of supplying and consum - 
ing power when needed. Likewise, using 
pumped storage hydropower is highly 
beneficial, as it provides the additional 
advantage of rebuilding the power grid in 
the event of a systemwide blackout. Addi -
tionally, rotating grid stabilizers are being 
used to ensure grid stability, and superca -
pacitors will enable power dispatch within 
milliseconds to counter frequency changes.
Battery energy storage 
systems
Batteries that store energy in the form of 
chemical energy are a rather mature 
technol  ogy. Currently, they are the top 
choice when it comes to storing green 
energy for balancing load differences in the 
grid. While they continue to be improved, 
they economically solve a variety of issues 
that arise when trying to decarbonize. 
Batteries support carbon-free energy pro -
duction, as they address the volatility of 
renewable energy sources by storing energy 
when it’s available in abundance and pro -
viding it when there’s a shortage. 
Batteries are also flexible, as they allow  
fast supply of energy when needed. They’re 
also plannable and reliable. Additionally, 
batteries help power producers avoid cur -
tailment, which is mostly an involuntary Today: Stability is key
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 4
Fig. 2: For industrial assets 
batteries enable electrical peak 
shaving by supplying electricity 
demand during peak hours.
Fig. 3: Globally the most widely 
deployed bulk energy storage 
solution, pumped hydro is one  
of the most mature and proven 
technologies. It is based on a 
simple law of nature: gravity.reduction of energy output. So, when con -
sidering energy storage solutions today and 
as part of any future scenario, batteries 
address common concerns on the road to 
decarbonization.
As mentioned above, battery storage is 
already being used as an efficient method  
of supplying power when needed. For 
example, large offshore vessels and drilling 
platforms employ it not only to minimize  
the use of diesel generators, but also reduce 
CO₂ and NO x-emissions. In combination with 
rotating grid stabilizers, batteries are being 
used to ensure grid stability and support 
frequency regulation, thereby meeting 
demands of an energy market driven by 
renewables. In power plants, batteries 
enable “black-starts” which render CO₂-pro -
ducing diesel engines obsolete. Batteries are 
also directly connected to the grid as stand-
alone solutions so they can help with fluctu -
ating power supply and demand as well as 
provide peak power. Moreover, combining 
renewables, such as wind farms with battery 
storage, can help manage power depending 
on current needs. So, unsurprisingly, battery 
usage keeps increasing in today’s energy 
world. And as their production cost steadily 
continues to decrease, their storage capacity 
continues to increase. 
However, we haven’t unlocked the full 
potential of batteries yet. In the coming 
years, batteries will be able to help virtually 
expand grids (by providing and consuming 
electricity) and managing grid congestion. 
That, in turn, allows companies to flexibly 
handle the increase in energy demand. For 
industrial assets, batteries will enable elec -
trical peak shaving by supplying electricity 
demand during peak hours. And they also 
make energy arbitrage feasible – storing 
energy when it is cheap and selling it when 
prices are high. Finally, with decreasing technology costs, it will 
become even easier to inte -
grate batteries as part of 
power plants.
However, some open ques -
tions remain. First, today’s 
batteries have limited 
capacity, meaning they can 
only store enough energy to 
provide power for a few 
hours, and they degrade over 
time. Second, the continued 
use of rare elements in 
battery production raises 
environmental issues and concerns over the 
dependency on countries supplying them. 
Nevertheless, through continued research 
and development, rare elements should 
become less significant. And this goes along 
with the importance of finding sustainable 
ways for either reusing or recycling batteries 
as well as developing new battery concepts, 
such as metal-free flow batteries that may 
achieve longer discharge periods. Overall, 
batteries are one option among many, and 
the potential shortcomings of one solution 
are easily matched by others, such as 
rotating grid stabilizers, thermal, mechan -
ical, or hydrogen storage.
Pumped hydro
Globally the most widely deployed bulk 
energy storage solution, pumped hydro is 
one of the most mature and proven technol -
ogies, as hydro power has been used for 
millennia. It is based on a simple law of 
nature: gravity. When there is an energy 
surplus, water is pumped from a lower, often 
artificially constructed reservoir uphill to 
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 5
Fig. 4: A rotating grid stabilizer 
(RGS) provides additional system 
inertia and short circuit power  
to the grid.another reservoir. Then when needed, water 
is allowed to flow downhill again through 
turbines, thereby creating energy. Pumped 
hydro systems are also capable of supplying 
reactive power when there is an imbalance 
in the grid, thus decreasing the risk of black -
outs.
Pumped hydro is cost-efficient and climate 
neutral and allows for long-term storage on 
a very large scale – no other storage solution 
comes close. Especially in countries with a 
lot of hydro power, such as China, the US, 
Canada, Norway, and Austria, pumped hydro 
is a major force towards decarbonization, as 
it enables storing a large amount of energy 
(so-called high-capacity firming). If the asset 
is connected to the grid, pumped hydro can 
be used for frequency response when there 
is a power disturbance in the grid and its 
frequency needs to return to a stable level. 
Additionally, hydro power plants are easy to 
control and can provide flood protection and 
water supply for cities and industries. They 
are also highly efficient and have a long 
lifecycle of 50 to 100 years. 
But as mature and widespread as the tech -
nology is, pumped hydro’s potential has not 
yet been exhausted. Globally, there are many 
locations available for new, large, pumped 
hydro power plants, although the environ -
mental impact and public opinion of such an 
undertaking requires careful consideration. 
Additionally, larger initial investment is 
necessary, but this pays off in long-term, 
low-risk returns down the line.
Finally, smaller pumped hydro plants are 
possible even in regions that have highly 
developed energy infrastructures. Very small 
pumped hydro plants can be an option for 
hybrid installations, for example, in connec -
tion with wind or solar power; or by pooling 
several small plants in order to form a virtual 
power plant, enabling them to participate in 
the capacity market.
Rotating grid stabilizers
As the need for power from renewable 
sources increases, fluctuating power is not 
the only concern for power generation. 
Another important challenge is that with less 
conventional synchronous power generation, 
grid frequency is getting more sensitive due 
to the reduced number of rotating machines. 
Grid operators are already faced with the challenge of providing sufficient system 
inertia of synchronous generators with high 
rotating masses to avoid black-outs due to 
fast frequency and voltage drops.
A rotating grid stabilizer (RGS) solves this 
challenge by providing additional system 
inertia and short circuit power to the grid; 
RSGs are used at critical grid locations world -
wide today. A typical RGS system consists of a 
synchronous condenser and a flywheel. The 
flywheel stores energy as rotational energy. 
As soon as the grid frequency drops, the 
flywheel responds, resulting in balanced and 
more stable grid frequency. The task of the 
synchronous condenser is to connect the 
flywheel to the electric grid, thus helping to 
stabilize the grid. The main differentiator to 
other energy storage systems is that RGSs are 
neither controlled by software nor humans. 
Based on their physical behavior, they auto -
matically and inherently provide a system 
response that stabilizes the grid.
This way, RGSs also enable the grid to 
handle fluctuating renewable infeed. As 
they release no emissions, they are as 
environmentally sound as the energy that 
feeds them. And they are cost-efficient,  
as their lifetime ranges from about 30 to 
40 years. Additionally, by replacing the 
system inertia that is currently being sup -
plied by fossil power plants, RGSs enable 
a share of renewables of up to 100 percent. 
Another benefit they provide is the repur -
posing of conventional power plants,  
which might otherwise be phased out by 
reusing their infrastructure (generator,  
grid connection, etc.) and providing these 
assets a second life. 
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 6
Fig. 5: Supercapacitors actively 
contribute to stabilizing the grid 
in times of sudden disturbances.Supercapacitors
Supercapacitors are similar in functionality 
to rotating grid stabilizers, but their inte -
gration is based on power electronics, and 
they actively contribute to stabilizing the 
grid in times of sudden disturbances. 
Compared to batteries, supercapacitors 
have a relatively low energy but high-
power density, which allows them to be 
charged and discharged much faster than 
batteries. And supercapacitors are econom -
ical – thanks to their low losses, small 
footprint requirements and easy mainte -
nance, low lifetime expenditures can be 
achieved.
Supercapacitors also enable virtual grid 
expansion, storing as well as providing 
energy, and digitally emulate system 
inertia (the so-called grid forming control). 
Compared to rotating grid stabilizers, 
supercapacitors require less space. Another 
important feature is their relative opera -
tional flexibility. While rotating grid stabilizers are largely defined by their 
physical specifications, the operation of 
supercapacitor plants can easily be 
changed with a software update. 
Today, supercapacitors are commonly used 
at wind and solar farms for instant and 
uninterrupted power supply. At wind farms, 
they are also used to adjust rotor blades, 
whereby this process requires high power 
within a short period of time. And while 
supercapacitors are still a fairly new tech -
nology when used as energy storage for 
power generation and grid stability, they 
offer great benefits, specifically in times of 
short power fluctuations. In such situa -
tions, they can immediately supply the 
energy needed in the quantity needed with 
the help of capacitors, thus preventing a 
power failure and large-scale blackouts. 
However, as good as all of this sounds, one 
needs to keep in mind that supercapacitors 
are still a fairly new technology that does 
not yet have major demonstration projects 
in the field.
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 7
Fig. 6: Thermal energy storage 
can make use of heat produced 
by renewable energy, ranging  
in discharge duration from 
mid -term to long-term storage.
 e-Fuel   
  Electricity    
 Green hydrogen (e-H2)  
  Thermal energyFig. 7As we look 5 to 10 years ahead, we will see 
the benefits of sector coupling at a local and 
regional level. For example, power-to-heat 
via heat pumps will open a new green 
concept for heating buildings, or even 
provide process heat for industry. At the 
same time, more storage solutions, such as 
compressed air energy storage (CAES) or 
thermal energy storage, will enter the 
market, each forming building blocks for a 
new energy system. Also, as the share of 
renewable energy continues to increase, 
sector coupling offers further opportunities 
to replace fossil fuels by enabling e-mobility. 
Even more than today, we will also see 
governments push sector coupling through 
legal frameworks, ensuring that countries 
are heading towards a carbon-free economy. 
The consequence: permits for plants using 
fossil fuels will become difficult or even impossible to obtain. This also implies that 
more reliable power from the grid is removed, 
thereby increasing the need for longer 
storage durations. At the same time, govern-
ments will offer subsidies ensuring all rele-  
vant players are supported on this path.Tomorrow: Sector coupling 
 accelerates
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 8
Fig. 8: CAES storage units 
dissipate part of the compression 
heat into the atmosphere with 
intercoolers. The air must be 
reheated before it is returned to 
the CAES cycle.Thermal energy storage 
Thermal energy storage supports decarbon -
ization by handling another important 
building block to a future energy system: 
heat. It makes use of heat produced by 
renewable energy or captured from waste 
heat or exhaust gas, ranging in discharge 
duration from mid-term to long-term 
storage. It improves a plant’s efficiency by 
helping to reduce cost and improve the 
energy yield. A great variety of mediums 
can be used, such as liquid salt, stone, sand, 
steam, gases, ceramics, or pressured hot 
water – all of which are hardly environmen -
tally harmful. It allows to feed thermal 
energy across sectors back into various 
processes and make them more flexible, 
including heating as well as cooling applica -
tions, for buildings or industrial processes. 
Renewable electricity can be fed into 
thermal storage via resistive heating, which 
helps decarbonize heat production as well 
as balance availability and demand for 
thermal energy. So the potential is undoubt -
edly great, as heating is, for example, 
Europe’s largest energy consumer that use 
more energy than mobility or electricity 
sectors.Mechanical energy storage
Next to pumped hydro, compressed air 
energy storage (CAES) is another mechan -
ical storage solution that offers a reliable, 
cost-effective, and long-duration energy 
underground storage solution at grid scale. 
It’s especially attractive in areas where geo  - 
graphy does not support pumped hydro.
The idea of using compressed air for power 
plants is not new. Today, there are two power 
plants in operation using compressed air to 
store energy in salt caverns when demand is 
low, and reusing it when demand is high. One  
of these plants was completed in Huntorf, 
Germany in 1969, the other in McIntosh, 
Alabama in 1991, which Siemens Energy 
helped build. There, stored compressed air  
is turned into electricity by co-firing it with 
natural gas and / or hydrogen and combusting 
it in a turbine. The more green hydrogen or 
other green fuels are used in this process, the 
more CO₂-emissions are reduced even 
further. And in case you’re wondering why 
CAES for power plants hasn’t been used more 
widely so far, it’s simply because the demand 
for longer storage durations just isn’t there 
yet. But that’s changing.
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 9
In future power plants, CAES-solutions can 
use electric motor driven compressors to 
capture the excess energy generated by 
renewables by storing the compressed air 
underground. Then, during hours of higher 
grid demand, the compressed air is with -
drawn from storage, heated, and routed to 
expansion turbines to generate electricity. 
This allows operators to engage in energy 
arbitrage – storing energy when prices are 
low, selling it when prices are high. Grid-
scale CAES can also store energy long-term, 
thereby ensuring the availability of a firm 
energy resource, which can be dispatched 
as needed to meet system demand as well 
as provide grid support services, such as 
regulation, spinning reserves, and transmis -
sion optimization. 
Finally, compressed air storage is an attractive 
solution for industrial applications requiring 
compressed air, such as drilling or cleaning, 
thereby eliminating the need for transforming 
mechanical energy back into electricity. Thermo-mechanical energy 
storage
Thermo-mechanical storage combines the 
technology of heat storage and mechanical 
energy storage, enabling both the dis -
charge of electricity (primary use case) and 
heat (secondary use case) depending on 
one’s needs, be it power generation, district 
heating or industry applications. Three 
prominent examples are liquid air energy 
storage (LAES), pumped heat energy 
storage (PHES), and adiabatic compressed 
air energy storage (A-CAES). All three are 
well suited for bulk energy storage, as they 
are geographically not constrained as 
pumped hydro. They also have a long 
lifecycle, as all the components are well 
tested and known to be very durable. And 
as they combine the advantages of both 
thermal and mechanical energy storage 
technologies, it enables a variety of applica -
tions, such as re-electrification or supplying 
process heat. 
Fig. 9: The expansion and 
compressor train of a 
compressed air energy storage 
(CAES).
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 10
Fig. 10: Adiabatic CAES cycle 
stores energy in the form of 
pressurized air in a cavern, while 
compression heat is stored in a 
thermal storage. For re-electrifi -
cation, both forms of energy are 
being utilized.
Liquid Air Energy Storage works by com -
pressing and cooling air repeatedly, so that 
when air is expanded again in an insulated 
container, it cools down even more and 
enters a liquid state. It has a relatively high 
energy density – about 10 to 20 times as 
high as compressed air energy storage. By 
reversing these steps, the stored energy and 
cold air can be used in the context of both 
industrial applications and power genera -
tion. Pumped heat energy storage uses both 
electricity and heat pumps to store thermal 
energy in tanks with warm and cold mate -
rials. When needed, the stored energy can 
be used to produce electricity or as heat / 
cold for industrial applications. Adiabatic 
compressed air storage stores heat created 
during the compression and enables re-  
using it once the air is released. The advan -
tage: no natural gas needs to be used to 
heat up the released air, thereby reducing 
CO₂-emissions. 
In the context of renewable power plants, 
all three can help prevent curtailment, and 
thereby support decarbonization. Also the 
materials used for these solutions are non-
toxic and not harmful to the environment. 
However, the technologies are not com-pletely mature. The ongoing development 
of various components shows promise of 
improving performance and lowering costs. 
Finally, one other variety of thermal-mechan-
ical energy storage needs to be mentioned 
– storage systems that store and release 
heat for the purpose of driving mechanical 
systems, namely steam turbines for elec -
tricity generation. For example, in case of 
concentrated solar power plants, surplus 
thermal energy can be stored, e.g., in salt 
tanks. Likewise, surplus electricity, e.g., from 
wind, can be turned into green thermal 
energy by using resistive heating. The stored 
thermal energy can then be turned back into 
electricity with the help of a steam turbine. 
This configuration helps prevent curtail -
ment, improve grid stability, and decouple 
heat from electricity generation. 
This technology is already being used, for 
example, in two concentrated solar power 
plants in the Granada area in Spain, each 
having a power output of around 50 MW. 
Although thermal storage is a proven tech -
nology, it will have to compete with other 
technologies, such as batteries, pumped 
hydro, or compressed air storage.
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 11
Fig. 11: Sector coupling: Storing 
large quantities of hydrogen 
underground or in tanks allows 
one not only to store fluctuating 
renewable energy, but also to 
use it for various sectors of the 
economy.Twenty years from now, with the share of 
renewables continuously rising and ulti -
mately reaching 100% of energy generation, 
utilities, transmission companies and 
industry will be able to create a CO₂-free 
economy. In order to achieve this goal, 
power plants, as we know them, will have 
become hybrid plants, laying the foundation 
for the new energy economy. They will 
include 100% green gas turbines that ensure 
steady energy flow, thermal storage, heat 
pumps for district heating, and electrolyzers 
for producing hydrogen. Batteries and 
thermo-mechanical storage for producing 
green electricity will also be part of the mix. 
And especially hydrogen will enable long-
term energy storage in addition to pro -
ducing feedstock for synthetic fuels, such as 
methanol, combustible fuel for heat, or 
CO₂-free metal production. 
Positive consequences: There would no 
longer be any need to curtail energy, as 
utilities can capture excess renewable energy by storing it in the form of hydrogen 
or use long-term storage for seasonal bal -
ancing to address a mismatch of supply and 
demand. And as it enables transferring 
energy to all consuming sectors of the 
economy having integrated energy storage 
systems, be it buildings, mobility, industry, 
or agriculture, the entire economy is being 
decarbonized. 
Hydrogen storage
There is no shortage of hydrogen – it is the 
most common element on earth. And 
because it is very reactive, hydrogen is 
bound in other molecules, mostly in the 
shape of water, H₂O. Currently, around 
70–100 million tons of hydrogen are pro -
duced globally every year mostly from steam 
methane reforming or autothermal 
reforming. About half of this hydrogen is 
used to synthesize ammonia, which in turn 
forms the basis for urea, ammonia Outlook on a CO₂ free economy
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 12
phosphate, and other chemicals. Hydrogen 
is also used in refineries for hydrocarbon 
cracking. In the food industry, hydrogen is 
used, e. g., for fat hardening.
However, steam reforming is not entirely 
green, as it emits CO₂: When steam reacts 
with natural gas, it produces synthetic gas 
or syngas, a mixture of hydrogen and 
carbon monoxide. CO is shifted to CO₂, 
which is usually emitted to the atmosphere. 
But if CO₂ is sequestered, hydrogen can be 
produced with minimal CO₂ emissions. In 
comparison, the generation of green 
hydrogen via electrolysis of water with 
electrical energy from renewable sources is 
completely free of CO₂ emissions right from 
the beginning. 
Green hydrogen forms an excellent long-
term energy storage, and in the future, it 
will enable seasonal power-to-power 
storage on a large scale. By using H₂-capable 
gas turbines, engines, and / or fuel cells, 
re-electrification helps secure electricity 
supply in periods of low renewable energy 
supply, e. g., due to lack of wind.
Compared to all the other storage solutions 
mentioned before, it also enables several 
other applications. It can be used directly as 
fuel for mobility or as a feedstock for various industries. Via synthesis with carbon dioxide 
(from biogenic and unavoidable industrial 
emissions or direct air capture), it can be 
converted into synthetic, sustainable 
e-fuels, such as e-methanol, e-ammonia, 
e-diesel, e-jet fuel, or other carbon-based 
chemicals. 
That’s not to say there aren’t challenges. One 
major challenge is the current lack of infra -
structure for distributing and storing hydro - 
gen. But this will change, as green hydrogen 
production becomes more economical and 
scalable. In a transition phase, we can use 
existing gas infrastructure, such as pipelines, 
gas stations, or caverns. Green hydrogen 
production, however, requires a massive 
expansion of renewable power generation 
capacity such as wind and solar, which 
ultimatively results in zero CO₂ emissions.
The potential is great. Storing large quanti -
ties of hydrogen or other synthetic liquids 
allows one not only to store fluctuating 
renewable energy, but also to use it for 
various sectors of the economy. We estimate 
that coupling via hydrogen has the potential 
of reducing primary fossil energy consump -
tion by 50% even while power demand 
grows by 25%.2  Despite given efficiency 
losses, it is the most economic long-term 
storage for renewable energy.
2 Power-to-X: The crucial 
business on the way to a 
carbon-free world. Siemens 
Energy White Paper, 2019.
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 13
In principle? Nothing, really. Today, the 
transition to a new decarbonized energy 
future is being set in motion. But we also 
have to recognize that the path to a decar -
bonized energy system is not a given 
either – it varies from country to country 
with a mix of technologies being used to 
meet emissions goals. Also, while we 
foresee no major technological hurdles, we 
still need research and development. And 
that also means it will take huge sums of investments for solutions benefitting every -
body in the coming years and decades. We 
also need close cooperation between policy 
makers, the private sector, and companies 
for efficient as well as affordable energy 
solutions, including those for energy 
storage. And with the world embarking on a 
decarbonization journey, it’s clear that a mix 
of complementary energy storage systems 
will be an essential part of it.
Sources
• Boost energy storage in the EU to help spur decarbonisation: European Parliament Press 
Webpage: 2020, www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20200706IPR82726/  
boost-energy-storage-in-the-eu-to-help-spur-decarbonisation , Assessed on: 2021-09-07.
• Power-to-X: The crucial business on the way to a carbon-free world, Siemens Energy 
White Paper, 2019.
• Handbook of Energy Storage, Sterner, Michael; Stadler, Ingo (ed.), Springer, 2019.So, what’s holding us up?
Storing energy: A major building block for our energy future
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 14
Published by
Siemens Energy AG
Freyeslebenstrasse 1
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com/storage
This publication is provided for informational pur  - 
poses only and you should not construe any 
information presented as legal, tax, investment, 
financial, or other professional advice. The content  
is of a general nature and does not address the 
specific circumstances of any particular market, event, 
application or installation, nor does it constitute a 
comprehensive or complete statement of the matters 
discussed or the laws relating thereto. Any infor  -
mation about Siemens Energy products and services is 
subject to change without notice. Expected capa - 
bilities or benefits may not apply in specific 
applications or be realized in all cases. Nothing in  
this document shall be deemed or construed to  
be a warranty or guarantee of the information, 
product(s), service(s) or method(s) described herein.
All product designations may be trademarks or 
product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. 
KG or other companies whose use by third parties for 
their own purposes could violate the rights of the 
owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.For more information, please contact: 
energy.storage@siemens-energy.com
Authors: 
Hans Maghon, Thorben Fohrmann, Ulrich Böttges,  
Maximilian Niederehe
Editors: 
Hubertus Breuer, Marion Dimitriadou,  
Jessica Mattmiller
Key Contributors:  
Holger Wolfschmidt, Hubertus Zimmermann, 
Stephan Werkmeister, Hendrik Steins,  
Bernd Niemann, Heiko Grootens, Bobby Bailie,  
Martin Johannes Schneider, Frank Strobelt