© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 1
Grid State Detection
Driving the future of electric power transmission by 
deploying artificial intelligence
siemens-energy.com/transmission

© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 201Introduction
Page 3
02Grid strength assessment
Page 3
03Rotational inertia estimation
Page 3
04Harmonic impedance measurement
Page 3 - 4
05Conclusions
Page 4
06References
Page 5
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 3Siemens Energy is driving the
future of electric power
transmission by deploying
artificial intelligence
The electric power system is rapidly transforming into a
constellation in which the use of power electronics-inter-
faced devices (PEID) is the norm. The trend is being driven
by the ongoing transition to a low carbon energy system,
with conventional synchronous generators being retired
and replaced by renewable energy sources that are inter-
connected by power electronics.
These developments are transforming electrical grid sys-
tems from networks in which synchronous generators pro-
vide the services needed to maintain stability, such as rota-
tional inertia, frequency and voltage control, into a future
power system dominated by PEID with a different dynamic
behavior and different possibilities for delivering such ser-
vices [1].
System operators need to be prepared to cope with this
new landscape. And with investments and approval pro-
cesses for additional transmission capacity being hard to
resolve, optimum utilization of existing capacities becomes
all the more important. One prerequisite for enabling such
services, however, is the ability to reliably estimate the
state of power grids at any given time.
Stepping up to meet this need, Siemens Energy has devel-
oped an online state-of-the-art solution for AI-enabled grid
state estimation. We anticipate that this solution will ena-
ble our customers to increase their system flexibility and
control capabilities, and efficiently use the technology
available to enhance the robustness and reliability of the
power system.
Our state-of-the-art, AI-enabled grid state estimation solu-
tions provide valuable information to system operators, fa-
cilitating their daily planning and decision-making in con-
trol rooms around the world.
To bring these development efforts closer to our end-cus-
tomers, next steps are implementation into specific project
applications. We are seeking partners to collaborate with us
on customizing, validating and further developing such so-
lution.
Grid strength assessment
Fault level calculations have been carried out for years to
determine the short-circuit currents at various substations
in the power transmission and distribution industry. These
calculations are normally performed by steady-state simu-
lation programs to calculate node fault level Sk’’ [in MVA].
A number of different established procedures describe how
these calculations should be performed [2][3][4],[5].With more and more fast-functioning voltage controlling
equipment being installed (including static VAR compensa-
tors, static synchronous compensators, synchronous con-
densers, voltage-source converters and line-commutated
converters for HVDC) and their growing impact on trans-
mission system dynamics, it becomes increasingly im-
portant to consider nearby voltage controlling devices in
fault level measurement.
To avoid the errors in fault level measurement introduced
by the presence of nearby converters, Siemens Energy uses
machine learning (ML) to increase accuracy and extract
new valuable insights on the presence of nearby convert-
ers. Siemens Energy has introduced a more comprehensive
concept, referred to below as “network strength”, which
captures both the fault level of the AC system as well as the
impact of nearby voltage controllers. These measurements
can be triggered at any point in time or on a periodic basis
using Siemens Energy power electronic converters. Our re-
search shows that the information provided by this ap-
proach based on artificial neural networks (ANN) can im-
prove grid dynamic performance and maintain stability [6].
Rotational inertia estimation
Large-scale deployment of renewable energy installations,
notably inverter-connected wind turbines and photovoltaic
systems which do not provide rotational inertia, are dis-
placing conventional synchronous generation installations
and their rotating machinery. This accelerating trend will
considerably reduce the power system’s rotational inertia,
which in turn has negative implications for frequency dy-
namics and power system stability.
Siemens Energy is introducing a system for rotational iner-
tia measurement using power electronic converters which
can be periodically activated to deliver this vital infor-
mation to system operators.
The developed method uses a known perturbation injected
by the converter, then the network’s frequency reaction to
the perturbation is analyzed to obtain the network state es-
timation.
This state-of-the-art estimation method uses machine
learning to deliver an accurate estimation of the power sys-
tem’s rotational inertia that considers real power system
features such as generator controller actions, load-fre-
quency dependence and power system oscillation modes.
Harmonic impedance measurement
The expanding installation of high voltage cables as well as
PEID at the generation, transmission and load levels is rap-
idly changing the harmonic behavior of the power system.
Hence, the task of measuring the harmonic impedance
from different nodes in a power system is becoming an in-
creasingly important one.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 4Even with adequate documentation and knowledge of the
harmonic characteristics of the equipment connected to
the AC network, the complexity and dynamic nature of the
power system makes it extremely difficult to accurately
calculate the harmonic impedance of the network at any
given moment. Online measurement is an elegant solution
as it requires no prior knowledge of the network and no in-
formation concerning loads. By performing several meas-
urements over time, the impedance changes can be
tracked.
The gathered information can be used in harmonic pene-
tration studies and passive filter design, and to improve the
operation of active filters. Furthermore, with the increasing
amount of PEID in the power system, online grid imped-
ance measurement increasingly facilitates the analysis of
controller interactions and system stability in real time.
Siemens Energy is introducing a system for harmonic im-
pedance measurement using power electronic converterswhich can be used to deliver this vital information to sys-
tem operators.
Conclusions
Accurate, on-demand measurement of network strength,
rotational inertia and harmonic impedance is an important
tool for improving planning in the transmission system op-
eration business. Periodical input of this information based
on measurements carried out in the transmission network
will allow system operators to utilize the full potential of
the existing transmission network.
The power transmission industry worldwide faces techno-
logical challenges today on an unprecedented scale. Sie-
mens Energy’s state-of-the-art solutions for grid state esti-
mation can help customers meet and master these chal-
lenges by providing valuable on-demand information to
support their daily activities.Grid state estimation: providing key performance indicators for managing transmission grids

© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 5References
[1] CIGRE C2/B4.38 JWG Capabilities and requirements definition for power electronics-based technology for secure and
efficient system operation and control. November 2020.
[2] International Standard IEC 60909, Short-circuit current in three-phase a.c. systems, July 2001.
[3] ANSI/IEEE Std. C37.5-1979, IEEE Guide for Calculation of Fault Currents for Application of AC High-Voltage Circuit Break-
ers Rated on a Total Current Basis.
[4] J. R. Dunki-Jacobs, B. P. Lam, and R. P. Stratford, “A comparison of ANSI-based and dynamically rigorous short-circuit
current calculation procedures,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Applicat., vol. 24, pp. 1180–1194, Nov./Dec. 1988.
[5] G. Knight and H. Sieling, “Comparison of ANSI and IEC 909 short-circuit current calculation procedures,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Applicat., vol. 29, pp. 625–630, May/June 1993.
[6] A. J. Hernandez M, J. Lottes, D. Abhay and M. Steger, "Artificial Neural Network-Based Online Network Strength Estima-
tion," 2018 IEEE PES Innovative Smart Grid Technologies Conference Europe (ISGT Europe), Sarajevo, 2018, pp. 1-6.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 6
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transmission
Freyeslebenstr. 1
91058 Erlangen
Germany
Article No. PTXX-T10001-00-7600
Contacts: Pratik Jena, Alvaro Hernandez Manchola
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may
not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The requested
performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could
violate the rights of the owners.Published by for the U.S.
Siemens Energy, Inc
Transmission
4601 Six Forks Road
Raleigh, NC 27609
USA