Unrestricted   © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  1  
 
  
siemens -energy.com  Trust ed partner in the  
energy transition  
Be more eco -friendly, waste less energy  
with Siemens Energy transformers  

Unrestricted   © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  2 Climate change and the increasing electrification of energy sys-
tems worldwide pose major challenges for our planet. Studies 
show that the global energy demand could increase by up to 
25% by 2040 - with greenhouse gas emissions rising at the same 
time. Consequently, m anufacturers  like Siemens Energy Trans-
mission face three central challenges: first, supporting the grid 
expansion for reliable transmission and distribution of the 
above mentioned rising power demand.  Second, reduc ing our 
customers’ carbon footprint by providing envir onmentally 
friendly products, and third, coping with the increasing fluctu-
ations in the grid resulting from the rising  infeed of renewable 
energy resources . These challenges  lead to  the questions : How 
can we provide our customers with climate -friendly, reliable,  
and affordable solutions to meet the growing electricity  de-
mand ? How can we help to successfully implement a decarbon-
ization journey that benefits our customers and society? At Sie-
mens Energy, w e support our customers in the transition to a 
more sustainable world with our innovative technologies, ex-
tensive experience , and an ambitious strategy to drive the de-
carbonization of global energy systems.  
 
Today, more than 1/6 of the world's electricity is generated with 
Siemens Energy products. As one of the biggest players in the 
energy landscape, we are focused on and committed to sustain-
able growth. Therefore, d ecarbonizing our business activities 
along the entire value chain is an important step in o ur journey 
to energize society  even more sustainably in the future . This in-
cludes our supply chain, our operations , and our product portfo-
lio. A key element of the Siemens Energy sustainability program 
is the goal  of becom ing climate -neutral by 2030. To ac hieve this , 
we will switch to 100% green energy consumption by 2023 and 
invest  in our own operations.  
Looking at our portfolio , power transformers  are a key element 
for the success of the energy transition . How can power trans-
formers contribute towards a green energy landscape and which 
product features make  them more  sustainable?  
 
 
 Power transformers are a key element within the 
energy value chain towards a successful energy 
transition  
Siemens Energy power transformers are leading the path to-
wards sustainable energy systems. Driven by the need to reduce 
CO 2 emissions, the energy landscape and therefore transmission 
infrastructure is rapidly changing. According to the  IEA, the need 
for tr ansmission expansion in the next decade is 80% higher than 
in the last decade. The increasing amount of renewable energy 
infeed leads to rising fluctuation s and decentralization of gener-
ated power. Consequently , there is a great demand for technolo-
gies tha t address the increasing complexity of electrical net-
works. Products like phase -shifting transformers and variable 
shunt reactors protect powerlines from overloads, provide active 
power flow control and compensate reactive power losses. Addi-
tionally, the t ransition to renewable energy sources like solar and 
wind is enabled by our step -up power transformers with effi-
ciency ratings that exceed global regulations.  
 
As part of our Siemens Energy targets, all power transformer 
plants will use 100% green electric ity by 2023, with more than 
80% of electricity already coming from renewable sources  today . 
Furthermore, various sustainability initiatives are being imple-
mented within our factory network in order to decrease the car-
bon footprint, protect the local enviro nment and reduce the ma-
terial  consumption  and waste  production . Our world is changing – and so are we  
Did you know?  
Today, more than 40% of our Power Trans -for-
mers are GSUs manufactured for renewable 
energy sources – with GSUs for conventional 
energy sources representing less than 5% of 
our production volume.  

Unrestricted   © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  3 A green factory network – 
the start of sustainability  
Saving tons of CO 2 emissions by reusing insulation 
oil 
The insulation oil is an integral part of every power transformer 
and is subject to several aging and degradation processes. As a 
result , the formation of polar components  often prevented insu-
lation oil from being reused  in the past . A team at the Siemens 
Energy power transformer factory in Jundiaí, Brazil has invented 
an innovative oil purification process  that removes these polar 
components,  restoring the insulation oil to its original state and 
making it reusable. The purification  and reutilization  of more 
than 300.000 liters  of oil each year reduces CO 2 emissions by 770 
tons in Brazil alone. Several Siemens Energy power transformer 
factories around the world have already implemented th is insu-
lation oil purification process, further decr easing the c arbon 
footprint of our manufacturing network.  
Picture  1 Oil purification in  our factory in Jundiaí,  Brazil  
Promoting e-mobility at power transformer 
factories  
The Siemens Energy power transformer factories in Nurem -berg, 
Germany and Weiz, Austria invested in electrical charging sta-
tions on the factory premises. By electrifying our own fleet and 
encouraging  our employees to switch to electrical vehicles as 
well, we are pushing towards sustainable mobility.  
In addition, our factories are consequently switching to 100% 
electric construction machines and vehicles such as cranes and 
forklifts in all power transformer factories, further  reducing op-
erational emissions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Generating green energy with rooftop solar panels  
A total of 3 ,230 photovoltaic panels were installed at the top of 
four buildings of the Siemens Energy factory in Zagreb, Croatia. 
Regular electricity generation from the installed panels started in 
June 2018. The power station has a total capaci ty of 1 MW, cov-
ering  more than 17% of the factories electricity consumption and 
resulting  in an annual reduction of 415 tons of CO 2 emissions.  
This is just one of many measures to reduce CO 2 emissions by 
generating green energy for our own operations. W e are imple-
menting decarbonization measures in all power transformer fac-
tories.  
But our journey towards a sustainable future doesn’t end with 
decarbonization. By reducing  water consumption and creating 
large green areas at our sites, Siemens Energy preserves  the local 
environment and biodiversity. At the same time, the a utomation 
of lighting and heat ing systems reduces  our power consumption. 
And by reusing or eliminating  packaging materials altogether , we 
reduc e production -related waste. While we optimiz e and decar-
boni ze the manufacturing of power transformers with state -of-
the-art technologies and innovations, our power transformers 
are also contributing  to sustainability themselves, by enabling 
the feed -in of r enewable energies and displaying special ecolog-
ical features .  
 
Picture  2 Photovoltaic panels on the roof of our factory in Zagreb, Croatia    

Unrestricted   © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  4 Technologies, that make power 
transformers sustainable  
Highly efficient products ensure low losses  
In many cases, transformation losses during the lifetime repre-
sent the biggest contributor to CO 2 emissions of power trans-
formers . To ensure t hat the total CO 2 emissions are reduced, all 
our power transformers are built in accordance with the local en-
ergy efficiency regulations. And by considering an optimal bal-
ance between transformer losses and weight  induced CO 2 emis-
sions , Siemens Energy offe rs solutions with optimized  efficienc y 
ratings,  further minimizing the carbon footprint of our products . 
To quickly compare transformers with different efficiency ratings 
and identify the most ecological and economical solution, we 
recommend  our customers to use our  peak efficiency index cal-
culator . 
 
The utilization of losses through heat recovery can further max-
imize the overall efficiency  of a transformer . Our experience with 
heat recovery applications helps our customers to make good use 
of transforma tion losses up to the highest power ratings. The us-
able temperature ranges for heat recovery can be extended by 
using heat pumps or alternative insulating liquids such as esters . 
 
Picture  3 Power transformer with ester insulation and heat exchanging de-
vice in the test field   
Safety and environmental protection through 
alternative insulation liquids  
Traditionally, power transformers are filled with non -biodegrada-
ble mineral oils. In order to achieve a higher safety level and to 
comply with  regulations regarding impact on the environment, 
Siemens Energy offers  proven equipment with appropriate de-
signs for transformers filled with alternative insulation liquids. 
Biodegradable mineral oil made from biowaste has similar prop-
erties to conventional  mineral oil , but  resul ts in a smaller carbon 
footprint.  An even smaller carbon footprint can be achieved with 
biodegradable natural ester, which captures CO 2 from the atmos-
phere and comes with the added benefit of a higher flash point. 
The unique properties of ester enable operation at higher tem-
peratures or can  increase the power transformer ’s lifetime. At 
the oth er end of the temperature spectrum, synthetic ester allows cold start ing at very low temperatures and offers several 
end-of-life options, including regeneration and full recycling. By 
using biodegradable insulation liquids, such as ester s, harmful ef-
fects on ground water and the surrounding area  are prevented.  
  
Picture 4 World´s first 400MVA, 420kV transformer filled with natural Ester 
for Kupferzell, TransnetBW  
Siemens Energy has more than 15 years of extensive experience 
in ester technologies and has mastered the corresponding  chal-
lenges of power transformer design. The world´s biggest trans-
former filled with natural ester with a rating of 400MVA, 420kV 
was buil t in our transformer factory in Nuremberg and shows the 
excellent combination of environmental technical expertise and 
a design tailored to customer requirements.  
All the environmentally friendly properties of our transformers 
are summarized in our Pretact  EcoSafeT program and can also be 
combined with special safety functions , like a rupture safe tank 
design . The Pretact EcoSafeT™  fire safe  substation concept sets 
new standards for substations in terms of  environment, health 
and safety. The innovative design concept enables the environ-
ment -friendly integration of power transformers and other tech-
nologies into the transmission landscape, comb ined with the 
highest grade of operational reliability.  
 
 

Unrestricted   © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  5 Advancing the grid with digitalized transformers  
Sensformer™  Advanced and Sensformer™ Edge  add a digital layer 
of operational transparency to power transformers which sup-
ports operators in managing the growing grid complexity. A dis-
tinctive  feature of both Sensformer versions is the digital twin 
technology, a virtual replication  of the specific  power trans-
former, based on its design and operational parameters. The dig-
ital twin not only provide s real-time information about the trans-
former’s performance and condition , but also allows the simula-
tion and evaluation of load scenarios in advance . It can be used 
for three scenarios: simulating any load and ambient tempera-
ture cycle for 24 hours into the future, determining permissible 
overload with defined boundary conditions and automatically 
calculating the relative aging of the transformer. Sensformer™ 
Advanced and Sensformer™ Edge provide the necessary infor-
mation and anal ysis to optimize operations. Furthermore , they 
can help to extend transformer lifetime s and to increase grid 
loading , thus represent ing a sustainable and i nnovative approach 
to meet  the increasing power demand  with grid operators’ exist-
ing fleets . 
 Siemens Energy is actively shaping the Energy 
Market  
In addition to the numerous factory measures that we  have  al-
ready implemented to reduce CO 2 emission in produ ction and 
the many features which make our power transformers more sus-
tainable , many other  sustainability initiatives will follow  in the 
future.  By issuing certified Life Cycle Assessments and Environ-
mental Product Declaration s for each transformer, according to 
respective norms, we are expand ing environmental transpar-
ency. And b y providing a transformer -specific raw material pass-
port to our customers, we will further contribute to the transpar-
ency regarding  the CO 2 emission of  our products along the value 
chain  in the near future . 
Establishing a strong circular economy plays a key role in making 
our transformers more sustainable. We not only ensure that the 
materials we us e comply with international standards , but also 
push for  a sustainable change in the market landscape  by encour-
aging  our suppliers to use an increasing percentage  of recycled 
materials with lower CO 2 emissions. Another important factor in 
a circular economy is end -of-life recyclability. By working with re-
cyclin g partners , we ensure  that the  amount of recycled materi-
als at the end of our transformers ’ life is maximized  while living 
up to our responsibility to  creat e an ecologic and economic cir-
cular economy.  
  
Did you know?  
More than 95% of a power transformer can 
be recycled after its lifetime – which often 
exceeds 30 years.  
Unrestricted   © 202 2 Siemens Energy  Page  6 
 
 
 
 
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Transmission  
Freyeslebenstr. 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany  
 
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens -energy.com  
© Siemens Energy, 2022  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance f eatures which may not al ways 
specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products.  The requested performance 
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All produc t designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the ri ghts of the owners.  
 For the U.S. published by  
 
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Transmission  
8841 Wadford Drive  
Raleigh, NC 27616  
USA  