Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin , November  8, 2023  
Siemens Energy and Air Liquide pave the way 
for the ramp -up of the hydrogen economy with 
new gigawatt factory for electrolyzers   
The new gigawatt electrolyzer factory of Siemens Energy and Air Liquide was officially inaugurated 
today in Berlin. In the presence of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Christian Bruch, CEO of 
Siemens  Energy, and Francois Jackow , the CEO of French joint venture partner Air Liquide,  pushed 
the start button for the series production of the hydrogen technology. Among the guests at the 
event were also German Economics Minister Robert Habeck, French Industry Minister Roland 
Lescure and other high -ranking representatives of German and Fren ch politics.  
 
With the new factory, Siemens Energy is making electrolyzers a mass product, laying the 
foundation for the ramp -up of the hydrogen economy. For hydrogen to become the game changer 
for a climate -neutral future, it must be available in large quantities and at competitive prices. This 
requires serial production of cost -effective and scalable electrolyzers. With an annual production 
capacity of one gigawatt , Siemens Energy and Air Liquide expect a ramp -up to at least three 
gigawatts by 2025 with potential for more. In comparison: with installed electrolysis capacity of 
three gigawatt, an average of 300,000 metric tons of green hydrogen can be produced per year 
when operated with renewable energies. Using this green hydrogen to replace fossil fuels would 
avoid the CO 2 emissions of a major German city with around 2 60,000 inhabitants like Aachen.  
 
Christian Bruch, CEO Siemens Energy: "There is no energy transition without green molecules. With 
today's opening and the start of gigawatt -scale production of electrolyzers, we are launch ing the 
next step for the commercialization of this vital technology. Now we need to agree on a viable 
business model with a balanced risk and reward profile to turn the smallest molecule into a big 
success story."  
 
 
 
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
At the Siemens Energy site in Berlin the complete infrastructure of an existing production facility 
and its experienced workforce can be used. New production lines for the electrolyzers were set up 
on 2,000 square meters at a cost of around 30 million euro s. The new factory will supply stacks  – 
the heart of electrolyzers  – for a wide range of customers, serving the fast -growing market. These 
stacks are based on proton exchange membrane (PEM) technology that is particularly good at 
following intermittent renewable energy supply. Compared to other hydrogen technologies, PEM 
electro lyzers enable gigawatt capacities to be brought to market with lower material, manpower 
and space requirements, making them the ideal enablers of a fast ramp -up. Once produced, the 
assembly of the stacks to be implemented in electrolyzer projects will  be carried closer to the 
project sites, contributing further to the cost effectiveness of the solution.  
 
The strategic Franco -German partnership benefits from the expertise of both Groups and from a 
portfolio of hydrogen projects combining both Air Liquide and Siemens Energy’s pipelines. In 
Europe, a number of low -carbon and renewable large -scale hydrogen pro jects are already under 
development: near Port -Jérôme, France, the Air Liqui de Normand’Hy 200 MW electrolyzer project is 
under construction, avoiding the emission of 250,000 tons of CO 2 per year.  The Normand'Hy 
project will be one of the first to be supplied from Siemens Energy's new electrolyzer production 
facility in the framework of the joint venture between Air Liquide and Siemens Energy.  
Siemens  Energy is working on several other large -scale electrolyzer projects, such as in Kassø 
(Denmark) or FlagshipONE (Sweden), which will provide hydrogen for the synthesis of efuels for 
shipping.  
 
François Jackow, CEO of Air Liquide Group: “The mass production of industrial scale electrolyzers is  
essential to making competitive renewable hydrogen a reality. Our joint -venture with 
Siemens  Energy brings  the best of our respective expertises together and allows us to offer the 
most -suited products to the market.  This state -of-the art technology will soon be operated at the 
Trailblazer electrolyzer in Oberhausen, with a  major scale upcoming  for the Normand'Hy 
electrolyzer project. More than ever, hydrogen is proving to be a  key element of the transition to a 
low-carbon society.  
 
The German Federal Ministry for Research and Development has provided financial support for the 
research work on the Berlin production facility as part of the SEGIWA project, which is part of the 
H2Giga flagship project.  
 
 
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 München  
Germany   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Claudia Nehring  
Phone:   +49 162 1668424  
E-mail: claudia.nehring@siemens -energy.com   
 
This press release and further material is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on X at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of 
products, solutions and service s, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation 
and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and 
steam turbines, hybrid power plants opera ted with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. Its wind  power 
subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes  Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable 
energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. 
Siemens Energy employs around 9 4,000 people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of 
€29 billion in fiscal year 2022.  www.siemens -energy.com .  