Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , June 23 , 2021  
Siemens Energy to electrify first -of-its-kind 
biorefinery in Germany  
• The industrial -scale facility will produce green biochemicals without the use of fossil -based raw 
materials  
• The biorefinery will be the first industrial -scale facility of its type ever built  
• Siemens Energy will provide the entire electrification, automation, and digitalization (EAD) 
solution as well as deliver a complete digital twin  
 
The Finnish company UPM -Kymmen e selected Siemens Energy to supply electrification, automation, 
and digitalization (EAD) packages for a next -generation biorefinery currently under construction in 
Leuna, Germany.  
 
The biorefinery will be the first industrial -scale facility of its type e ver built. It will apply novel 
process innovations to sustainably convert 100 percent wood into bio -based mono -ethylene glycol 
(MEG), mono -propylene glycol (MPG) as well as renewable functional fillers (RFF). Both MEG, MPG 
as well as functional fillers hav e traditionally been produced using fossil -based raw materials. UPM 
will provide alternatives to considerably reduce the CO 2 footprint of end -products such as PET 
bottles, packaging materials, textiles , or rubber products used in various automotive applica tions.  
Siemens Energy’s scope of supply for the project includes:  
 
• Electrification:  mill-wide medium - and low -voltage power distribution system and drive 
system (motor control center, variable speed drives, motors)  
• Automation:  Distributed control system (DCS) for multiple process areas and remote I/O 
cubicles (total of 9,000 process objects), including safety and ATEX functions for explosive 
atmospheres  
• Digitalization: Complete digital twin for the entire plant, covering the mi ll’s whole life cycle 
– from integrated engineering to integrated operation.  
 
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
The Leuna Biorefinery will be a big step for UPM to expand its business into wood -based 
biomolecular products and solutions .  
 
“We are confident that the bio -based mono -ethylene glycol, mono -propylene glycol , and renewable 
functional fillers made in Leuna will meet the strong demand of customers and end -users looking to 
change towards a truly sustainable portfolio ,” said Juuso Konttinen, Vice President UPM 
Biochemica ls. “By implementing Siemens Energy’s  digitalization solutions and digital twin, we  can 
help  ensure sa fe and efficient operations .”  
 
The biorefinery is scheduled for start -up in late 2022. When fully operational, it will have a total 
annual capacity of 22 0,000 tons.  
 
“As a global leader in industrial decarbonization, we are proud to be selected as a trusted partner 
and facilitator for this groundbreaking project,” said Jennifer Hooper, Senior Vice President, 
Industrial Applications Solutions for Siemens E nergy. “We  look forward to helping UPM reduce the 
world’s reliance on chemicals produced from fossil fuels as we move toward creating a more 
sustainable world.”  
 
 
Above: An example of a biorefinery similar to the one UPM -Kymmene  is building in Leuna, Germany  
(photo courtesy of UPM -Kymmene).  
 
 
 

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact for journalists  
Janet Ofano  
Phone:  +1 803 -389-6753  
E-mail:  janet.ofano@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and press pictures are available at  https://bit.ly/3d3CMVZ  
 
For more information about energy solutions for the fiber industry, visit https://bit.ly/3fn3cDJ  
 
Follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for t he future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio inc ludes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in  the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employ s  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 