€60 million investment
July 2024 marked the opening of our new, state-of-the-art 
Schaltwerk production line in Berlin, where the manufacture 
of vacuum interrupters for our clean-air Blue switchgear 
portfolio is set to be stepped up significantly.
The €60 million investment by 2031 demonstrates a clear 
commitment to climate-neutral power transmission and is 
a major step towards net zero.
More than 100 people will work at the newly converted 
6,200 m² production hall to produce transmission equipment 
which has zero negative impact on the environment.
The highly-automated, fully digitally-connected facility will 
comply with the latest industry 4.0 standards.
And since it matches our entire Berlin switchgear plant in 
being powered 100% by electricity from renewable sources, 
the products are all the more sustainable in their 
manufacture as well as in their operation.
Grand inauguration, 
international importance
The scale and significance of our new facility was reflected 
in the stature and number of guests who attended its 
official opening.CEO Christian Bruch and Executive Board Member Tim Holt 
were delighted to welcome Federal Minister for Economic 
Affairs and Climate Protection Robert Habeck, State Secretary 
Michael Kellner, Senator for Economic Affairs, Energy and 
Public Enterprises Franziska Giffey, Mayor of Berlin Kai 
Wegner, Member of European Parliament Hildegard Bentele, 
plus many valued customers.
Their presence underlined that this is an investment which 
will have a far-reaching impact, beyond the immediate boost 
to the local economy. The vacuum interrupters produced here 
will be delivered around the world both as part of switchgear, 
and as components to factories in China and the Americas.
From Berlin to the world: what we manufacture on this site 
will contribute to a secure, sustainable, affordable energy 
future all over the globe.siemens-energy.comVacuum interrupter 
factory Berlin
A transformed facility transforming the future
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 1
Why vacuum interrupters are vital
Vacuum interrupters are central to our mission to achieve 
Zero Global Warming Potential (GWP) in energy transmission 
through our high-voltage Blue switchgear, used in both grids 
and wind turbines.
Together with the use of clean air for insulation, our vacuum 
switching technology eliminates the need for climate-hostile 
F-gases – in particular, SF6 gas which has a GWP 24,300 times 
higher than CO2 and remains in the atmosphere for around 
1,000 years. Clean air insulation instead of SF6 means:
• Zero toxic emissions
• Zero harmful impact on human health or the
 environment
• Zero special safety measures needed during maintenance
• Zero regulations on the handling of gas
• Zero disposal of gases required at end of life
The decarbonization of power grids, and our goal of 
producing only F-gas-free high-voltage switchgear, 
can only be achieved through this approach, which is 
why we are investing so heavily in increasing vacuum 
interrupter production.
Key factory facts
• About €60 million to be invested by 2031
• Transformation of 6,200 m2 manufacturing hall
• Production capacities of up to 30,000 vacuum 
 interrupters planned within the next decade
• Powered 100% by renewable energy
• Highly automated, fully digitally connected
• Clear commitment to climate-neutral 
 power transmission
• Major boost to Berlin economy
• Upgrade project announced: 2021; operational: 2023Future-ready
Recent EU legislation has tightened restrictions on SF6 and 
other F-gases in new switchgear, staggered according to 
voltage levels. Only solutions with a GWP < 1 are permitted 
where these are available.
Similar regulatory moves are taking place in other regions, 
with further steps anticipated.
However, switchgear which uses vacuum switching 
technology and clean air insulation instead of F-gases – 
as produced in our upgraded Berlin facility – will not be 
subject to any such legislation.
Investing about €60 million by 2031 will help to ensure that 
we, and our customers, are ready for the future – protected 
from F-gas regulations and requirements as well as protecting 
our environment.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 2Berlin Factory Factsheet
Our clean air Blue portfolio is ready for future-proof substations and unaffected by the coming restrictions.  
Learn more on our website: siemens-energy.com/blue-high-voltage-products
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Grid Technologies  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com  
or contact us  
Email: support@siemens-energy.com
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may 
not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The 
requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product designations may be 
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes 
could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.Grid Technologies  
8841 Wadford Drive  
Raleigh, NC  
USA
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 3
Berlin Factory Factsheet