10    INTERVIEW
 Volume 1, Issue 2  |  2024  |  SWITCHGEAR  MAGAZINE
Dr. Ulf Katschinski
Working on the Blue Portfolio
If you could name one driver 
shaping the future of power 
grids, which one would it be?
Dr. Katschinski: Simple: Decar bon iza­
tion. As the share of renewables rises, 
energy generation is widely dis­
tributed, often far from urban and 
industrial centres. The grid must  
expand to cope with this develop­
ment, and stability must be ensured.  
At the same time, decarbonization 
also involves reducing the carbon 
footprint of grid infrastructure in­
cluding its supply chains.
And another factor?
Dr. Katschinski: Rising energy de­
mand. It’s mainly due to the electrifi ­
cation of the economy, namely electric 
vehicles, heat pumps, and data cen­
tres. In Ireland, for example, the share 
of data centres’ electricity consump­
tion could rise over 30% very soon.
The energy transition is playing 
out differently worldwide, 
though.
Dr. Katschinski: Yes. In Europe, for ex­
ample, there is an emphasis on replac­
ing existing infrastructure and inte­
grating renewables. In North America, 
modernization is currently a priority. 
Other regions are active as well. For 
example, in the Near and Middle East, 
there’s Saudi Arabia’s NEOM megacity 
project, to which Siemens Energy con­tributes energy infrastructure. Other 
markets, such as China and Southeast 
Asia, are also adapting their grid to re­
newables and rising energy demand.
Siemens Energy is a major 
player worldwide. What are 
some of your main products 
that support restructuring the 
energy grid?
Dr. Katschinski: We have a wide 
range of products and services to help 
decarbonize energy generation and 
the grid. Just to name a few: HVDC of­
ferings for long­distance power trans­
mission; energy storage, such as Bat­
tery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) 
to stabilize the grid; or our Flexible 
AC Transmission Systems (FACTS), 
which enhances the reliability of  
AC grids by improving power quality 
and transmission efficiency. Another 
example I would name is digitaliza­
tion with the reliability­centred and 
data­driven dynamic substation asset 
and overhead line rating. Lastly, our clean air Blue Portfolio with switch­
gear solutions supports the energy 
transition towards net zero.
Let’s talk about that. The ‘Blue 
Portfolio, ’ as you call it, consists 
of…
Dr. Katschinski: … high voltage switch­
gears, namely live­ and dead­tank  
breakers (Air­Insulated Switchgear, 
or "AIS") as well as Gas­Insulated  
Switchgear (GIS), that use vacuum 
switching technology and clean air 
insulation. The primary focus is elimi­
nating SF6, the insulation gas of choice 
for decades, but with a Global Warm­
ing Potential (GWP) of 24,300. That´s 
no longer tenable. We have sold nearly 
6,000 Blue products, and more 1,600 
units successfully operate worldwide.  
In terms of CO2 footprint, SF6 plays a 
major role (around 80%), if the entire 
life cycle footprint is considered. Our 
ambition is to reduce the CO2 footprint 
even more. Therefore, we have started 
to decarbonize our supply chains, for Relevant for society: A conversation with Dr. Ulf Katschinski, Vice President of 
Product Management, Grid T echnologies, Siemens Energy, on how his company’s 
SF6-free ‘Blue’ products help with challenges for the power grid, how they were 
developed and are now being manufactured in a new plant in Berlin.
In Europe, for example, there is an em-
phasis on replacing existing infrastruc-
ture and integrating renewables. In 
North America, modernization is cur-
rently a priority
  11         
 www.switchgear-magazine.com
2014. That was also the year the EU 
outlawed SF6 for most applications, 
except for the power sector, due to a 
lack of alternatives. But even then, it 
was clear that this exception would 
be only temporary. So, we focused on 
making our first commercial clean air 
switchgear and vacuum circuit break­
ers available – and we accomplished 
that by 2017. As expected, in March 
of 2024, the EU’s revised F­gas regula­
tion for phasing out F­gases with GWP 
> 1 came into force.
Was it clear that clean air and 
vacuum would be the way to go?
Dr. Katschinski: Yes. Clean air with 
GWP = 0 produces no new emissions rinated gases (F­gas) regulations were 
being discussed within the EU. So, we 
got to work; back then, we were still 
part of Siemens AG. We developed the 
prototypes based on our expertise at 
a Siemens factory for medium­volt­
age circuit breakers based on vacu­
um interrupter switching technology 
in Berlin. We intensified this work in example by using green steel and green  
aluminium.
How did it come about?
Dr. Katschinski: We started working 
on alternatives to SF6 around 2008. 
We couldn’t ignore its GWP; there was 
growing customer interest, and fluo­
8VN1 Blue GISTM  for voltages up to 145 kVWe focused on making our first com-
mercial clean air switchgear and vacu-
um circuit breakers available – and we 
accomplished that by 2017
12    
 Volume 1, Issue 2  |  2024  |  SWITCHGEAR  MAGAZINEINTERVIEW
during its life cycle, is easy and safe 
to handle, and poses no health risks 
to workers or environmental harm. 
That’s also why it’s not surprising 
we’re witnessing a high demand for 
our Blue Portfolio.
So, would you consider yourself 
a pioneer in the industry?
Dr. Katschinski: Well – while we 
started looking into SF6 alternatives 
early, other competitors also quickly 
realized the need to move away from 
SF6. The more important question is 
which solution to use – natural­origin 
or fluorinated gases with a reduced 
GWP. For all live­ and dead­tank cir­
cuit breakers as well as for GIS of 145 kV and below natural­origin gases are 
the clear favourite. Only a few OEMs 
are still using PFAS–gases (PFAS = Per­  
and polyfluoroalkyl substances) as 
an alternative to SF6 in GIS of higher 
rated voltages. We are confident that 
natural­origin gases will also prevail 
here as PFAS restrictions are being 
discussed globally and even are al­
ready prohibited in some regions of 
the world.
What was your strategy for 
developing the Blue Portfolio?
Dr. Katschinski: It was bottom­up—
first developing switchgear for lower 
high­voltage ratings, means for rated 
voltages of 72.5 kV and 145 kV volt­
age, then moving on to higher volt­
ages. Our approach also allows the 
market to accept this new technology 
gradually and see its efficiency and 
overall low lifecycle costs.
For product development, how 
important is public funding, e.g.,  
from the EU?
Dr. Katschinski: Very important. With 
the EU, we’re currently part of two 
programs concerning switchgear and 
phasing out SF6. One such initiative 
is the ‘Mission’ project, an Innovation 
Action project co­funded by the Eu­
ropean Union through Horizon Eu­rope, with €11 million in funding. It 
addresses critical technology gaps for 
AC and DC grids in medium and high 
voltage. Under this program, using 
pressurized clean air, we’re develop­
ing and piloting a 420 kV HVAC live­
tank AIS vacuum circuit breaker and 
a 550 kV HVDC clean air GIS. Anoth­
er project is an EU project to develop 
clean air 420 kV GIS under the ‘Pro­
gramme for the Environment and Cli­
mate Action’ (LIFE). The main success 
factor to be selected was that we are 
in line with the restriction proposal 
on PFAS­F­Gases in switchgears in Eu­
rope, which is currently in the evalu­
ation and discussion process.
You are investing €60 million 
in your Vacuum Interrupter 
factory in  
Berlin.
Dr. Katschinski: Yes, we exclusively 
produce all vacuum interrupters of 
our Blue Portfolio at this site using the 
latest state­of­the art precision manu­
facturing. That’s especially important 
when you aim for high­voltage vac­
uum interrupters. The physics for 
higher voltage is the same as for low­
er­voltage applications, but quality re­
quirements increase. It’s comparable 
to manufacturing microchips.  In ad­
dition, Berlin helps secure our supply 
chain having our biggest switchgear Well – while we started looking into 
SF6 alternatives early, other compet-
itors also quickly realized the need to 
move away from SF6
With the EU, we’re currently part of two 
programs concerning switchgear and 
phasing out SF6. One such initiative is the 
‘Mission’ project, an Innovation Action 
project co-funded by the European Union 
through Horizon Europe, with €11 million 
in funding
  13         
 www.switchgear-magazine.com
Dr. Katschinski in front of an 8VN1 Blue GISTM 
14    
 Volume 1, Issue 2  |  2024  |  SWITCHGEAR  MAGAZINEINTERVIEW
utation as an employer. We recently 
increased our workforce in R&D and 
manufacturing and had no problem 
filling positions.
What are the anticipated 
outcomes of the newly 
established VI facility and 
the enhanced research and 
development activities in Berlin 
over the coming years?factory and all related R&D facilities 
there. And since the plant uses 100% 
renewable energy, it also increases 
sustainability. With this factory we 
are very well prepared for the higher 
market demand for Blue switchgears 
worldwide.
Isn’t it expensive to produce in 
Germany?
Dr. Katschinski: Labor may be cheap­
er elsewhere, but the manufacturing 
processes are highly automated. Also, 
despite a scarcity of qualified work­
ers, university graduates and skilled 
workers enjoy working on products 
like the Blue Portfolio, as it’s techni­
cally attractive and entails doing rel­
evant work for society. Furthermore, 
Siemens Energy also has a good rep­
Dr. Katschinski:  We will continue to 
speed up our Blue development work,  
where some projects are co­funded by 
the EU mentioned earlier. In particu­
lar, we are working on starting pilot 
applications for 420 kV AIS life tank 
and GIS in 2026. In parallel, other 
Blue developments are ongoing; we 
aim to have the entire Blue portfolio 
based on clean air with GWP = 0 avail­
able for the world markets by 2030.
Transforming 
switchgear: A new 
factory in Berlin
In July 2024, Siemens Energy 
opened a new, state­of­the­art vac­
uum interrupter factory in Berlin’s 
historic Siemensstadt district. Built 
in 1916/17, the site has long been 
a hotbed of innovation, develop­
ing and manufacturing devices for 
high­voltage systems that supply 
the world with electricity. With an 
investment of about €60 million, it 
manufactures vacuum interrupt­
ers for the company’s clean­air 
Blue switchgear. The 6,200 m² pro­
duction hall will achieve a produc­
tion capacity of up to 30,000 vac­
uum interrupters within the next 
decade. The highly automated, en­
tirely digitally connected produc­
tion plant is also powered by 100% 
renewable energy, and with more 
than 100 people working on­site, it 
also boosts the Berlin economy.
High-voltage vacuum interrupter for 245 kVDespite a scarcity of qualified workers, university graduates and 
skilled workers enjoy working on products like the Blue Portfo-
lio, as it’s technically attractive and entails doing relevant work 
for society
  15         
 www.switchgear-magazine.com