Today, electricity grids still rely on SF6 as an 
insulating gas. Its contribution to global 
warming potential is 25,200 times greater 
than that of CO2. The grids of tomorrow 
could rely simply on Natural-Origin Gases; 
these have zero impact on the climate, the 
environment and human health. 
This requires the right policy choices now. 
The negotiations of the F-Gas Regulation will 
determine which kind of switchgear 
insulation will succeed  SF6.  
Switchgears are the ‘nodes’ of power grids. 
They are essential to ensure that electricity is 
transmitted and distributed at the proper 
voltage level. 
What comes after SF6 is in our hands: Do we 
really want to accept the use of other 
harmful F-Gases such as Fluoroketone and 
Fluoronitrile, which are classified as PFAS 
(‘forever chemicals’)? Or do we want to 
make the switch to Natural-Origin Gases, 
whose usage poses no risks to the 
environment or to human health? The race for net zero places clean 
electricity at the heart of Europe’s 
energy supply. This shifts the focus 
to the grid infrastructure itself: 
it must not harm the environment, 
the climate, or people. 
We are the six leading power equipment 
manufacturers demonstrating global 
leadership with a clear commitment to 
support the EU to set global standards for a 
cleaner future. Already today the majority of 
T&D manufacturers have based their 
solutions upon Natural-Origin Gas.  
We have been relentless in our quest for 
new technologies based on Natural-Origin 
Gases. Many applications are now available 
and successfully proven in operation. We 
will close the remaining portfolio gaps in 
accordance with the proposed transition 
times outlined in the F-Gas Regulation.
With the Switching Gears for Net Zero 
Alliance, we convey a simple message: 
power grids can and should be F-gas free.   Who we are
Our choice is clear: 
We want to switch gears for net zero, 
for zero F-Gases in switchgear.  

Avoid GHG emissions and hence fully 
align with Europe’s net zero climate law. 
F-Gas free solutions are the only 
technology allowing operators to reach 
their own net zero targets and to reach 
net zero emissions in all product life-cycle 
phases.Zero dependencies as Natural-Origin 
Gases are widely available and free of 
patents, unlike Fluoronitrile and 
Fluoroketone which are entirely 
controlled by a single company. There is 
already a broad choice of reliable and 
safe technologies and manufacturers.  
Prevent harm to the environment and 
human health by avoiding use of PFAS or 
“forever chemicals” which are at odds 
with the EU’s non-toxic environment 
strategy. This eradicates new oppositions 
from anti-wind campaigners, as 
accelerating renewable energy is 
Europe’s number one priority.No additional costs to consumers’ 
electricity bills thanks to lower gas 
costs and lower maintenance costs. 
Despite higher initial investment costs 
due to higher material needs, the 
relevant question is: as a society, can we 
afford not to have F-gas free grids?
Timely action is needed. 
Operators need investment certainty and a clear signal that 
Europe is switching gears for F-gas free power grids. 
Our call to EU policymakers: 
Phase-out switchgear relying on F-gases for all voltage levels where 
F-gas free alternatives are commercially available; 
Extend containment, leakage and reporting obligations to all use cases 
of F-gases, including Fluoroketone (CF3C(O)CF(CF3)2) and Fluoronitrile 
(Iso-C3F7CN);
Support the ambitious timeframe proposed by the European 
Commission for phasing out of SF6 and F-Gases in power grids.
www.switchinggearsfornetzero.com