Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Washington , DC, July 21, 2022  
Siemens Energy Takes Next Step to Protect 
Critical Infrastructure  
Company Joins AWS Partner Network to Provide Customers with 
Industrial Cybersecurity Solution  to Ensure Reliable Electricity 
and Fuel Supplies  
• Siemens Energy joins  the AWS Partner Network as a Technology Partner to provide  customers 
with industrial cybersecurity, analytics,  and storage solutions  
• Siemens Energy’s AI-driven Managed Detection & Response (MDR)  solution is  a first of a kind 
security offering available in AWS Marketplace built for energy and utilities, by an integrated 
energy technology company focused across the entire energy value chain  
• MDR’s monitoring and detection insights provide scalable protection against disruptive 
cyberattacks in the energy sector using innovative artificial intelligence  
 
Siemens Energy  Inc, one of the world’s leading energy technology companies, announce s it is 
joining the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Partner Network (APN), a global community of partners 
that leverage programs, expertise, and resources to build, market, and sell customer offerin gs.  
 
This expanded r elationship  includes listing Siemens  Energy’s  Managed Detection and Response 
(MDR)  industrial cyber secur ity solution in AWS Marketplace, a digital catalog  that makes it easy for 
customers to find, compare, and immediately start using the software and services that run on 
AWS.  This MDR security offering in AWS Marketplace  is built for energy and utilities, by  an 
integrated energy technology company focused across the entire energy value chain . As energy 
companies strive to protect physical infrastructure from escalating cyber threats , Siemens Energy’s 
MDR on AWS reduces the cost and technical barriers to achie ving strong, fast, comprehensive cyber  
defense.  
 
Expanding access to state -of-the-art cybersecurity is essential to ensuring reliable electricity and fuel 
supplies . Cyber risks to infrastructure are escalating  amid the ongoing transition toward renewable 
and low -carbon energy sources and the accompanying expansion of digital devices in the energy 
sector. Siemens Energy’s MDR  will help customers leverage analytics to secure their infrastructure 
while reducing co sts, improving efficacy, and reducing emissions.  Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
 
Siemens Energy’s industrial monitoring and detection solution defends critical infrastructure against 
cyberattacks, helping protect communities around the world from supply chain disruptions. AWS’ s 
capabil ities allow MDR’s  technology to quickly collect and analyze large volumes of data to monitor 
for cyber threats, giving energy sector chief information security officers (CISOs) the power to 
detect and uncover attacks before they execute.  
 
Secure cloud cap abilities that can  integrate digital applications and leverage sensitive data – such as 
real-time monitoring and detection – add an important and cost -effective tool to the defensive 
arsenal for CISOs and industrial security analysts.   
 
“The energy transit ion relies on seamlessly connecting physical assets with digital technologies to 
foster innovation, reduce emissions, and improve efficiency, but this future depends on strong 
cybersecurity across the whole supply chain ,” said Leo Simonovich, Vice President and Global Head 
of Indu strial Cyber, Siemens Energy. “Siemens Energy’s AI -driven industrial cyber monitoring and 
detection platform is purpose -built to help CISOs identify, prevent, and mitigate cyber threats to the 
energy sector’s digital business model. Energy companies  at eve ry scale  can now access and 
integrate advanced cyber threat detection across their operating environment, leverag ing AWS’s 
secure cloud platform to build  and defend the foundation of a digital energy ecosystem.”  
 
“Cloud is accelerating innovation across th e energy value chain and a key enabler to more resilient 
energy infrastructure,” said Jeff Miers, Director of Partner s and Alliances, Energ y & Utilities Business 
Unit at AWS.  “With the convergence we are seeing across operational technology (OT) and 
infor mation technology, we are excited to expand our relationship with Siemens Energy through 
the AWS Partner Network to provide OT cybersecurity solutions purpose built for the energy and 
utilities market.”  
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Stacia Licona  
Phone:  +1 (281) 721 -3402  
E-mail:  stacia.licona@siemens -energy.com  
 
To learn more, please visit the AWS Marketplace listing for Siemens Energy Managed Detection & 
Response .  
 
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is available at 
https://press.siemens -energy.com/na/   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy   
Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €28.5  billion in fiscal year 2021 . 
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 