  
 
Introduction  
Reliable energy supply is essential and energy transmission 
assets are considered to be critical infrastructure.  
Operators of energy transmission lines put great effort into 
identifying potential faults to ensure high reliability. They 
conduct regular vis ual inspections of the overhead lines, 
the components,  and the power line environment. 
Overhead line inspection is accomplished with helicopter 
flights. Conventional visual inspections deliver mostly 
rough and imprecise results, even with HDTV and DSLR 
cameras. Documentation of the lines‘  condition  is tedious , 
requires a lot of manual work and is often incomplete.  
Features  
SIEAERO  introduces a number of innovations to bring 
overhead line inspection to the next level.  
The flights are performed with helicopters carryingthe 
SIEAERO  high -end multi -sensor system  which was 
specifically developed to meet the complex requirements of 
overhead line inspections. Since all necessary sensors and 
cameras are combined in one multi -sensor system, all 
relevant inspection data is recorded in one go: 3D laser 
data, ultra -high def inition color images, infrared images 
and corona images.  
The extensive amount of multi -sensor data generated 
during the flights is handled by the SIEAREO smart data 
analytics software . The software was developed by 
Siemens and is based on artificial intell igence and deep learning for automated detection and assessment of faults 
and issues along the overhead lines. The documentation of 
the complete lines as well as the relevant findings and 
results can be directly integrated into the customers’ 
existing asse t management systems. It can be used for 
trend monitoring and preventive maintenance.  
SIEAERO is pioneering the use of long range drones for 
beyond visual line -of-sight (BVLOS) flights, however 
helicopters will be utilized until local regulations allow 
BVLOS flights.   
siemens -energy.com   
siemens -energy.com /sieaero  SIEAERO  
The Digital Service for Powerline Inspection  
SIEAERO Multi -Sensor System  
  
 Benefits  
SIEAERO provides comprehensive overhead line 
documentation and fault detection:  
• Fully digitalized service with fast and easily  accessible data 
through an interactive web interface or integration into 
the customer’s asset management system  
• High -definition  data and highly accurate 3D localization of 
all sensor data  
• Comprehensive and pre cise inspection results  
• Comprehensive and precise documentation of the com-
plete transmission lines and transmission line  right -of-way 
• Fast results after completion of inspection flights  
• Condition trend monitoring by combination of data from 
subsequent flig ht missions from previous years  
• Recommendations and information for preventive and 
predictive maintenance  
• Ability to edit and annotate findings and plan mainte-
nance work  
• Cost efficient overhead line inspection including data stor-
age, access, assessment, re porting and the ability for any 
other kind of digital use for assessment management  
• Reduced EHS risks through the reduction of walking and 
driving in hazardous terrain, reduction in frequency of 
tower climbs, the elimination of stop and hover helicopter 
flights, and in future the use of UAVs  
 Scope of work / Deliverable  
SIEAERO  is a digital service providing you with comprehen-
sive and easily accessible data.  
Digitalization  
All generated data, data models, and reports are digitally 
available. They are easy to access and easy to handle via inter-
active web interface or via direct d ata integration. Data can 
be integrated in the asset management system and any other 
customer systems. This allows customers to extensively use 
the data for various asset management and maintenance ap-
plications. Customers receive all inspection results and  flight 
data without having to manage various IT or vendor inter-
faces. Also,  data from previous years can easily be accessed 
and compared (trend monitoring).  
Data models  
Complete and highly accurate digital terrain model (DTM), 
digital surface model (DSM),  and 3D model with pylon, con-
ductor,  and vegetation. Besides assessing the critical distance 
of vegetation to the lines, a tree fall simulation is also pro-
vided. Illegitimate constructions along the power line are 
identified. Sagging of the conductor is as sessed as well.  
Inspection reports  
Customers receive a customized inspection report with identi-
fied faults and findings. This includes issues and defects on 
the conductor, the pylons and on various components along 
the overhead line, like insulators, coron a rings, spacers, 
clamps, spirals, vibration dampers, aerial markers, bird pro-
tection devices, jumper cables and cable terminators.  
Potential issues may include damage on the components, 
missing or misaligned parts, hot spots, foreign objects, par-
tial disc harge/ corona,  or arcing.  SIEAERO smart data analytics for overhead line 
inspections: precise, easy,  and cost -efficient  
Main elements and benefits of SIEAERO overhead line inspection service  
  
 
Technical Details  
The SIEAERO high -end multi -sensor system  was specifi-
cally developed for overhead line inspection make use  of 
high -definition  sensors:  
• Several ultra -high -definition  color cameras  
• 3D laser scanner  
• Infrared sensors  
• Corona sensors  
During a normal inspection flight over 300 GB of data per 
km of overhead line is generated ( over 480  GB per mile of 
overhead line). Highly accurate 3D localization of all sensor 
data is  ensured.  
Customers can select the required dat a and data analysis 
according to their needs. Depending on the use cases, 
customers may provide specific requirements and 
thresholds for implementation into the SIEAERO analytics 
system to modify the analysis and assessments.   
 
www.siemens -energy.com/sieaero  
Published by © 202 2 Siemens Energy  
Transmission Service  
Humboldtstr. 64  
90459 Nuremberg, Germany  
Customer Support Center  
Phone: +49 911 6505 6505  
E-Mail: support@siemens -energy.com  
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens -energy.com/ sieaero  
“Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this docu-
ment only contains general descriptions and/or performance features 
which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which 
may undergo modification in the course of further deve lopment of the 
pro-ducts. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.”  
   
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.    
   
