Offshore  
Grid Access
Bringing your offshore  
wind assets to operational  
perfection
Leading pureplay 
energy company
Siemens Energy AG (SE) has become 
the leading pureplay energy 
company after the spin-off from 
Siemens AG in 2020. Siemens Energy 
is present in more than 90 countries 
and 1/6 of the global electricity 
generation is based on our technology. By covering the complete  value 
chain from energy generation to transmission and storage, we use our 
thorough system experience to deliver outstanding services tailored to each 
customer’s individual needs.
As grid requirements vary between regions and due to the shift from 
centralized to decentralized, volatile power supply, tailored services for 
power transmission and distribution networks have become a key differen-
tiator. Siemens Energy Transmission Service is well-prepared to support our 
customers in every current and future challenge. Our expert teams have 
access to multiple in-house resources who are striving to deliver optimal 
customer-oriented solutions wherever your assets are located.
Over10 years
offshore service experience
in several countriesTransmission  
Experiences
Your Benefits
Technical  
know-how  
as OEMSave  100,000  
Offshore O&M man hours 
per yearUp to  100%  
asset availability
Emergency response 
within 2 hoursRely on up to 230  
service technicians & 
project managers
Competence FieldsOur unique selling 
points are your success 
factors for  
high asset 
performance
Technical 
Innovations  
for ServicesAsset  
AvailabilityAsset  
Efficiency
Scope
Training
Consul-
tancySpare 
PartsDigitaliza-
tionService 
ProgramsRepair & 
EmergencyMainte-
nance
2  3Offshore Grid Access | Leading pureplay energy company
Oﬀshore Onshore
Onshore substations Export cables Grid access substationOﬀshore wind turbines with inter-array 
cables and wind farm substation
(Civil) Structure Components (Civil) Structure Components Cable Cable (Civil) Structure ComponentsOur service organization sets high 
standards for safety, quality, and 
processes to fulfill major key require -
ments for efficiency, availability, and 
reliability either with in-house 
resources or in close cooperation and 
utilization of our vast and reliable 
sub-supplier network. Siemens 
Energy is known for
• High availability and minimized inter -
vention times of qualified service 
technicians, competent engineers, 
and system specialists. 
• High transparency to our customers 
by sharing SE CMMS (Computerized 
Maintenance Management System) 
and giving access to on-time field 
service information.
• 24/7 supervision of assets via SCADA 
system including remote intervention 
and, if required, additional evalua-
tions of operational data to optimize 
future maintenance strategy.
• Competent knowledge of systems: SE 
and our affiliates provide nearly all 
systems required in an offshore asset 
and, therefore, have access to experi-
enced in-house experts.
• Quick support for urgently required 
interventions and additional services 
like the exchange of components, 
fault-finding, and repairs.
• SE is looking forward to contributing 
our experience and proactively 
supporting employers for a safe and 
efficient operation of offshore wind 
farm assets.Our modular service program port -
folio gives both operational security 
and flexibility covering the full asset 
lifecycle:
• Maintenance and Field 
• Emergency and Repair 
• Spare Parts 
• Modernization and Retrofit 
• Digital Service
• Training Service
• Support and Consulting.The Siemens Energy service hub 
for transmission systems and 
products is a full-scope-provider 
serving as single point of contact 
and reducing complexity.
4  5Offshore Grid Access | Leading pureplay energy company Offshore Grid Access | Leading pureplay energy company
08  Service Programs  
10  Our Core Competencies  
12  Maintenance and Field Service  
14  Repair and Emergency Services  
16  Spare Parts Services  
18  Obsolescence Management  20  Modernization & Retrofit Services  
22  Digital Services  
24  Training Services  
26  Support & Consulting Services  
28  Reference projects 
Maintenance and Field Service 12
Repair and Emergency Service 14Our Core Competencies 10 Spare Parts Service 16
Service Programs 08
 7
SE Transmission Service provides full maintenance 
(planned and unplanned) of electrical, mechanical, 
and structural components for offshore wind 
assets. With a large pool of in-house multi-skilled 
personnel, we are servicing a multitude of different 
systems on- and offshore.Service 
Programs
SE is in the position to offer regular and fault clearance 
services for complex projects. Our staff is regularly trained 
according to the latest safety regulations (e.g. handling of 
dangerous goods, rescue from heights, rescue from depth, 
manual handling, GWO standard trainings), receives tech-
nical trainings for specific systems of various manufacturers 
(e.g. for gas-insulated switchgear, transformers, auxiliary 
diesel generators, pumps), and holds the required technical 
certifications (e.g. certified for working on firefighting and 
fire detection equipment, certified for working with cool-
ants).
Further strengths include our vast network of partners and 
suppliers, honed planning skills, well-trained technicians, 
24/7 setup for corrective maintenance in correspondence 
with our own OCC (Operations Control Center) located in 
Hamburg, Germany, and reliability in performing mainte-
nance and handling complex service requirements with 
execution excellence and project management.An essential part for an efficient service setup is integrated 
in our work packages which consist of the following steps:
• Planning activities, jointly defining interfaces, and famil-
iarizing with assets
• Advising customers for project setup incl. HSE standards, 
processes, and document management
• Reviewing O&M manuals and creating maintenance 
activity breakdown for monthly, quarterly, biannual, and 
yearly maintenance regimes
• Setting up CMMS with project documentation and main-
tenance requirements and introducing the document 
management, maintenance planning, and Permit-To 
Work in CMMS to our customers
• Preparing risk assessment reports and method  
statements
• Integration of OCC (if required).
 9 8Offshore Grid Access | Service Programs Offshore Grid Access | Service Programs
Reduced risk due to fixed and transparent service 
costs: 
Siemens Energy minimizes your risk and provides 
you with foreseeable service costs as a lump 
sum. We offer service concepts for operation, 
preventative maintenance, and corrective main-
tenance with clear and defined interfaces and 
responsibilities.
A highly competent service partner: 
We ensure skilled personnel, who are available 
to assist you in any uprising issue. Siemens 
Energyspecialists with extensive know-how and 
years of experience in maintenance and service 
are ready to support you over the entire lifetime 
of your asset.Lifetime maximization and availability  
guarantees:
Our infield service team and first line support 
can act immediately in case of any alarm or 
interruption of power transfer. The response 
times are reduced to a minimum.Our Core  
Competencies
Siemens Energy’s services have many significant 
benefits for your operation.
 11Offshore Grid Access | Our core Competencies Offshore Grid Access | Our Core Competencies
Scope of Work
Maintenance Services
Scheduled maintenance activities include:
• Offshore substations and OTMs
• Offshore grid access platforms
• Civil offshore structures (foundations) 
• Subsea inspections of cables and civil offshore structures
• Inspections of your installed assets
• Competent planning of maintenance campaigns
• Comprehensive maintenance concepts with detailed 
planning
• Comprehensive concepts for statutory inspections and 
• their execution.Maintenance  
and Field Service
Regular and reliable maintenance of offshore 
wind farms is essential due to the harsh weather 
conditions and challenging logistics. Therefore, 
continuous maintenance is crucial to keep the 
energy infrastructure running.SE offshore technicians are qualified to perform 
field services like scheduled and unplanned 
maintenance as well as repairs for the following 
components.
Each service mission is carefully planned and 
executed by highly qualified SE service staff.  
The maintenance schedules are based on respec-
tive O&M manuals and handled in a highly trans-
parent way via SE CMMS (Computerized Mainte-
nance Management System).
By giving customers access to our CMMS, we 
ensure high transparency of all our infield activi-
ties and findings with online infield service infor -
mation. 
Our CMMS solution can document all offshore 
work, the condition of your assets and the 
delivery of materials and consumables. Benefits 
• Increase in reliability and minimization of 
downtime
• Accurate operations due to expertise in 
various offshore systems
• Identification of important findings (e.g. for 
warranty or certification) via an integrated 
evaluation tool
• Enhanced security based on the availability 
warranty
• Projectable costs for operation and mainte-
nance work
• Less effort for organizational tasks, e.g. 
logistics, spare parts and interface manage-
ment with sub-contractors, etc.)
• 24/7 technical experts are availableSystem Service Structure Services (incl. Subsea) Cable Services
• High-, medium-, and low voltage 
systems (AC and DC)
• SCADA (grid, plant and process)
• Power generation and UPS
• HVAC and water-cooling
• Fuel, oil, and sewage
• Lifting systems and equipment• Steel and welding
• Coating and preservation
• Marine growths including removal
• Any subsea operation with diver or 
ROV (remotely operated vehicle)• Cable fault finding and diagnostics
• Cable surveys
Day-to-day Activities
SE service experts develop a detailed day-to-day plan for 
service campaigns while considering current weather 
forecast, vessel or helicopter schedule, and urgent activi-
ties. All activities are digitally planned, documented, and 
prioritized by using CMMS. Tasks are usually as follows:
• Execution of tasks, including preventive maintenance by 
highly skilled personnel 
• Project management and continuous communication
• Inventory management of spare parts on site, including 
maintenance
• Inventory management of tools on site
• Transparent and traceable documentation of performed 
activities.
To ensure highest asset availability, 
we provide Maintenance and Field 
Services for balance of plant and grid 
access assets.
 13
Offshore Grid Access | Maintenance and Field Service Offshore Grid Access | Maintenance and Field Service
Repair and  
Emergency Services
Offshore assets consist of critical systems which 
need to be continuously running to ensure elec-
tricity supply and highest asset availability. 
Therefore, it is essential that in the rare case of 
an outage or the need for repair services, you 
can rely on competent specialists via online or 
on-site support. We can remedy complex issues 
at short notice and on time.
We can provide fast support for urgently 
required interventions and additional services 
like the exchange of components, fault findings, 
and repairs.
Benefits 
• Tailor-made repair and emergency services
• Emergency response within two hours
• Up to 100% asset availability
• Rely on up to 230 service technicians and 
project managers
• Technical repair know-how through OEM and 
comprehensive service experience
Operation Control Center
Reaction time of 2ndLine of max. 
2 hoursField Service
Mobilization of service 
technicians within agreed 
reaction time
Experts will be on site within 
48 hoursFault case at customerTools for Repair & Emergency Service 
• SCADA (Supervisory Control Data Acquisition) 
for 24/7 supervision and remote intervention
• CMMS (WebBFS) for tracking and documenta-
tion of critical faults
• Expert hotline and field service with 24/7 
digital expert hotline for remedy complex 
issues and technical know-how 
• Operations Control Center for fault investiga-
tion and remote clearance in case of alarmScope of Work
Our Repair and Emergency Services ensure:
• Expert trouble-shooting teams with agreed reaction 
times
• 24/7 remote fault clearance and diagnosis via Superviso-
ry Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
• 24/7 first level support (hotline or on-site field service)
• 24/7 second level expert support (expert hotline or 
expert on-site field service) for critical systems
• Structural repair plans
• Cable repair preparation and emergency plans.All provided services are planned and documented in our 
Siemens Energy internal CMMS, which enables full trans-
parency of failure causes and the condition of assets and 
remedy missions. The integrated evaluation tool monitors 
asset integrity and identifies critical findings (e.g. for 
warranty or certification).
Our qualified offshore specialists with on-site knowledge of 
the systems can diagnose and rectify issues in an expedited 
manner for the following components:
• High-, medium-, and low-voltage systems (including 
HVDC modules)
• Transformers
• Control and protection systems
• HVAC systems
• Cooling systems
• Fire-detection (FiDe) and Fire-fighting systems (FiFi)
• Gas insulated switchgear (GIS)
• Air insulated switchgear (AIS)
• Power modules
• Circuit breakers
• Power management systems
• Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
• Grid, plant, and process automation
• Switchboard.
 15Offshore Grid Access | Repair and Emergency Services Offshore Grid Access | Repair and Emergency Services
□Scope of Work
Spare Parts for Offshore Assets
• Spare parts and component modules for all your offshore 
assets
• Consumables for your offshore assets
Strategic Spare Parts Program
• In-house specialists to screen various types of sub-systems
• Purchasing and Delivering of identified spare parts
• 24/7 issuance after ordering spare parts and consumables
• Delivery and Transportation of oversized offshore spare 
parts by special logistic vesselSpare Parts  
Services
Having the right spare parts at hand whenever 
needed is relevant to ensure a continuous elec-
tricity transmission. Spare parts services for 
offshore wind turbines and platforms face diffi-
cult challenges, especially when the requested 
spare part is not in stock or no longer available. 
Customers who let Siemens Energy profession-
ally manage their spare parts benefit from years 
of expertise and international experience.
The different fields of spare parts services are:
• Spare Parts
• Strategic Spare Part Program
• Spare Parts Management
• Obsolescence Management.
Siemens Energy offshore services for grid access provide 
professional spare part management for owners and opera-
tors of offshore wind farms. Siemens Energy is responsible 
for the organization, management, strategic logistics of 
spare parts and obsolete parts.Benefits 
• Increased reliability of offshore assets
• Increased predictability of costs
• Less effort to interface management and 
coordination
• Avoidance of shortages due to missing spare 
parts
• Availability of well-maintained spare parts 
anytime and anywhereSpare Parts Management and Reliable Material Logistics
• In-house logistics will handle any consumables, materi-
als, and waste fully compliant with Export Control and 
Customs
• Storage of spares and consumables at central hub
• Nearby storage of frequently used materials and  
equipment for foundations and OSS
• Data Management in centralized maintenance  
management system
• Customs Control and Waste Management can be  
provided
Central storage –  
Strategic spare parts of customer
• strategic spare parts and related tools 
which cannot be stored on the platform 
due to their dimensions
• delivery to harbor or heliport if required
Central storage – Spare parts and harbor 
facilities of Siemens
• Spare parts are delivered to the platform 
or warehouse of the land stationone 
month prior to shipment
• Storage administration,  
customs and maintenanceOnshore station
• Provision of essential strategic spare 
parts and associated tools
• All relevant spare parts and tools for the 
next campaign will be stored here
SuppliersOffshore platform
• All important strategic spare parts and 
the related tools can be stored  
on the platform
• Spare parts will be delivered  
previously by vessel
 17Offshore Grid Access | Spare Parts Services Offshore Grid Access | Spare Parts Services
Scope of Work
• In cooperation with manufacturers, customers are in-
formed about successors in advance
• Information will be sent promptly if follow-up products 
are no longer applicable 1 to 1
• Early information on discontinuation of Siemens Energy 
products
• Spare parts availability is guaranteed for the entire 
lifetime of the system (contract period)
Obsolescence Management
HVDC interconnectors are long-term investments 
with operational lifetimes of up to 30 or 40 
years. The supply of spare parts over the long 
term is essential in order to ensure continuous 
operability.Siemens Energy’s customer service offers easy 
obsolescence solutions to prevent obsoles-
cence-downtime and interruptions in operation 
as well as non-essential costs.
If a spare part with the same function cannot be 
replaced directly, SE offers technical solutions or 
plans for modification.
Benefits 
Siemens Energy’s Customer Service guarantees 
and organizes:
• a spare parts service including obsolete parts
• Supply of alternative spare parts for obsolete 
components
• Equivalent spare parts for obsolete spare 
parts.
HMI and COM
Main 
Components and 
Sub SystemsC&PStandard IT: 
~ 2-4 years
Station Control
Diagnostic Systems
Pole Control
HVDC Protection
Hybrid Optical measuring/DC 
measuring systemIndustrial IT: 
~ 5-8 years
Converter Transformer
Thyristor Valves and Valve
Base Electronic (HVDC classic )
Power Modules (HVDC plus)Station Control
Diagnostic Systems
Pole Control
Valve Cooling
Aux Power Supply
AC/DC yard equipment
(conventional primary equipment)~ 30-40 years~ 15-20 years5 10 40 15 30 20 25 35 General recommendation# of years
•Keep spare parts on site 
(especially in case of 
obsolecence)
•Consider replacement every 
~ 5-8 years
•Keep spare parts according to 
recommended spare parts 
list/own experience•Keep spare parts on site 
(especially in case of 
obsolecence)
•Consider modernization &
retrofit (incl. HMI & COM) after 
15-20 yearsTypical lifetime of systems
Offshore Grid Access | Obsolescence Management
 Offshore Grid Access | Obsolescence Management
 19
Modernization & Retrofit 
Services
Offshore wind farms and grid access systems 
come with high investments and need to be 
operated by state-of-the-art technology to guar -
antee high reliability and availability. Siemens 
Energy guarantees an outstanding performance 
and long lifetime of offshore assets.
Modernization works to provide lifetime exten-
sions of your offshore assets and their critical 
systems. We support you in achieving your avail-
ability targets and optimizing operational experi-
ence. 
You can rely on our engineers for design 
concepts and their respective implementation. 
We will perform the necessary changes to your 
offshore assets for a reliable electricity supply.Benefits 
• In-house OEM and service provider expertise 
for accurate planning and implementation of 
modernization and retrofit solutions
• Highest asset availability and state-of-the-art 
technology and solutions throughout your 
asset’s lifetime
• Holistic system integration of any necessary 
changes
• Reliable partnership and solutions for our 
own and third party equipment
Scope of Work
Modernization, Retrofit, and Refurbishment
As an OEM Siemens Energy provides holistic and compo-
nent specific modernization, retrofit, refurbishment, and 
improvement solutions.We provide system upgrade and 
uprate through conception and implementation of new 
product solutions. 
System Upgrade and Uprate 
System upgrade and uprate through, e.g. conception and 
implementation of new product solutions.
Lifetime Extension 
Life extension of offshore balance of plants and grid access 
assets is achieved through appraisals and implementation 
of technical steps.
System Integration
Solutions for holistic system integrations are developed 
and implemented while also considering all relevant inter -
dependencies for third part equipment integrations.Improvement Solutions for Assets and Specific Compo-
nents
• Offshore substations / Offshore transformer module 
(OTM)
• Auxiliary systems (e.g. air-conditioning, fire-fighting 
systems, cooling systems)
• Transition pieces for wind turbines
As an OEM, we are specialists in plan-
ning and implementing moderniza-
tion and retrofit solutions.
 21Offshore Grid Access | Modernization & Retrofit Services Offshore Grid Access | Modernization & Retrofit Services
Digital  
Services
Siemens Energy offers digital tools for the 
fastest remote service.
Leave the digital operation and conversion of 
your wind farm to our experienced engineers, 
who already have practical knowledge in imple-
menting digital services. Equipped with the 
latest technology and staffed with highly quali-
fied personnel, our Operations Control Center 
(OCC) provides a wide range of tailor-made solu-
tions for your electrical assets. Our service 
experts manage a wide range of digital solutions 
for your electrical assets. Our service experts 
manage and operate the electrical and mechan-
ical systems of your power plants, e. g. onshore 
substations, offshore platforms and wind 
turbines. Benefits 
• High availability of your assets via 24/7 
control and monitoring 
• Remote operations and fault clearance activi-
ties to replace and shorten offshore working 
hours
• Fast emergency response 
• Single point of contact for all requests and 
emergencies which also reduces coordination 
tasks
• Transparent and comprehensive documenta-
tion with professional tools
• Comprehensive cyber risk protection
• ISO 27001 certified
• Manufacturer independent
1st level support line
SCADA operators or Telephone 
Support Line2nd level expert support line
System specialists and engineersCustomerScope of Work
Operation Control and Switching via OCC
The 24/7 Operations Control Center (OCC) in Hamburg 
monitors and operates your electrical assets. Our experts 
can perform switching operations in in high-, medium-, and 
low-voltage levels. With its integrated Marine Coordination 
Center (MCC), it is capable of coordinating vessel and 
heli-copter movements. We also offer:
• 24/7 remote service
• Remote diagnosis of faults and risks and their root cause
• Remote repair
• Expert engineers on-site support
• 1st and 2nd level online support
• Marine coordination and control
• Data management and evaluation during normal op-
era-tion, e.g. within operations management software.Cyber Security
To ensure that IT infrastructure of your offshore wind farm 
is protected, we can provide the following services:
• System protection and upgrades
• Security patch management and notification service
• Identification of cyber risk through our IT security team
• Security audit, hardening checklists, and policies
• Software inventory assessment NERC-CIP and ISO/IEC 
27001 technical requirements check
• Incident response
• Cybercrime hotline
• Cybersecurity consulting and training.
Full wind farm operation including 
high-voltage switching is provided by 
our Operations Control Center.
 23Offshore Grid Access | Digital Services Offshore Grid Access | Digital Services
Scope of Work
Offshore Product Training
• Public address and general alarm system  
(PA/GA system)
• Gas insulated switchgear (GIS)
• Diesel engine
• Corrosion protection
• Substation
• Transformer
• Stationary gas detection technology
• Converter
• Converter cooling systems
• Compressor and compressor plant
• Cybersecurity
• SF6-gas isolated star point reaction
Offshore Expert Training
• AC/DC voltage divider
• Crane operator
• Electrician
• Switching authorizations
• ConvertersTraining  
Services
Siemens Energy Transmission’s customer service 
assure professional training for high service 
quality. SE Transmission is willing to share its 
knowledge through offshore trainings, giving 
your technician the preparation for upcoming 
offshore operations.  
SE offers trainings in the following fields:
• Offshore Product Training
• Offshore Expert Training
• Offshore Safety Training
• Offshore Vessel and Helicopter Training.
Our training was developed based on the knowledge and 
experience of experts throughout Siemens Energy and the 
global benchmark. Trainings can take place on-site, 
offshore, or in one of our training centers.Benefits 
• Expert training in specific areas
• Smooth and accurate offshore service
• Professional training for customers and 
contractors
• On-site and offshore training 
• Training centers in various locations
• Product-specific trainingOffshore Product Training
• First-aid and advanced first-aid
• Manual handling
• Sea survival with an inclusive boat transfer
• Fire awareness
• Working at heights including a refresher every 12 months
• Annual occupational safety instruction (DGUV V1)
• Annual electrical safety instruction (DGUV V1)
• On-site instruction specifically related to the workplace
• Basic electrical training
• Physical medical aptitude examination
• Helicopter underwater escape training (HUET) including 
Compressed air – emergency breathing system (CA-EBS) 
and short-term air supply systems (STASS) training
• Personal protective equipment against falling (PSAgA)
Offshore Expert Training
• Helicopter landing officer (HLO) and helicopter deck 
assistant (HDA) for contractor’s helicopter operations on 
manned offshore platforms
• Emergency response team for contractor’s work
• Crane operator for cargo operations with cranes and 
da-vits on platforms or transition pieces
• General trainings for vessel operation
Siemens Energy training is the  
baseline for our excellent offshore 
services.
 25Offshore Grid Access | Training Services Offshore Grid Access | Training Services
Support and 
Consulting 
ServicesOffshore wind farms and their operations can be 
complex. Time-consuming, costly tasks and 
confusing regulations are part of the daily 
offshore operational business. As a full scope 
operator, Siemens Energy’s offshore service 
offers a wide range of support and services. Our 
experts have vast experience and global exper -
tise which provide optimal ease of maintenance, 
long-term reduction of operating costs, and the 
best possible operation of your plants.
Benefits 
• Reduction of your operational costs on a 
long-term basis
• Continuous optimization of your asset avail-
ability 
• Expert knowledge from Siemens Energy to 
operate your offshore wind farmOrganizational Consultancy 
Organizational Consultancy Increase of produc-
tivity and decrease of opera-tional costs through 
consulting in organizational processes for:
• Asset management
• Spare parts and warehousing
• Logistics and customs
• Permit-to-work processes
• Offshore organization.Scope of Work
Technical Consultancy
Fit for Service – Make Your Platform Serviceable
• Inspection tour by Siemens Energy experts to ensure 
optimized accessibility and serviceability of your offshore 
assets
• Detailed findings report, including recommendations for 
improvement
Health Check – Condition Assessment of Your Assets
• Expert tour by Siemens Energy specialists to improve the 
availability of your offshore platform
• Condition assessment of critical systems, including high 
voltage equipment
FMECA and Reliability Centered Maintenance
Siemens Energy can offer FMECA (Failure Mode, Effect, 
Criticality and Analysis) experts to identify potential 
failures according to the potential causes of failures, 
which would ultimately evaluate the resulting risk. This 
generates the following benefits:
• monitoring, inspection, and/or testing along with 
analysis and the ensuing maintenance actions
• Proactive evaluation of necessary maintenance actions 
by involving state-of the-art technique.Statutory Inspections
Besides the requirements of OEMs regarding maintenance, 
the international legislators (e.g. for Germany: BSH) and 
other regulatory authorities (e.g. for Germany: BetrSichV, 
DGUV) oblige offshore wind farm operators to perform 
specific inspection tasks with experts. With our trained and 
certified Siemens Energy personnel and long-standing 
partners, we are able to provide synergies with the existing 
maintenance scope and hence reduce the OPEX for your 
asset.
• Compiled concept and detailed plan for statutory inspec-
tions on substation components according to DGUV, 
BetrSichV, TrinkwV, etc. (including inspection intervals, 
qualification, and needed tools)
• • Execution of inspections and provision of reports 
Quality Management Process Optimization
In order to optimize the productivity of your offshore wind 
farm, we can provide a quality management process opti-
mization check. After the review, our experts will help 
implement optimization proposals. You will receive a full 
report of all the suggested changes including:
• Technical processes
• Operation concepts
• Switching processes
• Regulations compatibility.Get recommendations on availability 
improvements for your offshore plat-
form with a condition assessment tour 
by our experts.
 27Offshore Grid Access | Support and Consulting Services
 Offshore Grid Access | Support and Consulting Services
Gwynt-y-Mor
London ArrayLynn and Inner DowsingLincsDudgeonBorWin3
BorWin2SylWin1
HelWin2
HelWin1
Bard1
ThanetGalloperGreater GabbardLillgrund DolWin6
HVAC –Platform in operation
HVDC – Platform in operation
Platform not in operation yet
Beatrice
Moray East
Triton Knoll
Albatros
BorWin5
Reference 
Projects
28Offshore Grid Access | Reference Projects Offshore Grid Access | Reference Projects
Siemens Energy is responsible for
14 offshore grid connections with 
6 GW of AC transmission
7
offshore grid connections with
6 GW
 of
DC
transmission
and has delivered
around
 3,500
 units of sustainable
transformers and
about
 800 units of SF 6-free 
switchgear for offshore wind turbine 
applications.
WATL
EATL
Transbay Cable
Operation or/and 
Maintenance
Maintenance Support
24/7 expert support
Cyber Security
Upgrade and Upgrade
in Operation
in ConstructionLink Name
Link NameHudsonBorWin 2EstLink 2
HelWin 2
HelWin 1
SylWin 1
Moyle
BritNedStorebaeltElecLinkBangladesh Pole 1
Pugalur-KeralaBorWin 3
UltranetCobra
AlegroNemo
Basslink
New Zealand Pole 3Inelfe
CometaBlack SeaNeptune
HelWin2
• Operation Support and Full Maintenance for 
offshore grid access
• Integration of SCADA systems
• 24/7 support for all critical systems
• Platform operation support during early 
project stageSylWin1 and BorWin1
• Operation Support and Full Maintenance for 
offshore grid access
• 24/7 support for all critical systems
• Platform supply, logistics, and warehouse 
management
HelWin1
• Operation Support and Full Maintenance for 
offshore grid access
• Integration of secondary platform supply for all 
critical platform systems
• 24/7 support for all critical systems
• Platform supply, logistics, and warehouse 
managementThe five (5) converter platforms BorWin2, BorWin3, HelWin1, HelWin2, and SylWin1 operated by 
TenneT were built and commissioned by Siemens Energy in cooperation with different shipyards 
and engi-neering offices. After the installation of the platforms in the German North Sea, Siemens 
Energy took over the full scope service activities on all five platforms in 2015.Reference Projects 
Germany
Grid access services in action
HVDC customers around the 
world trust in our service 
capability
 31 30Offshore Grid Access | Rereference Projects, Germany Offshore Grid Access | Reference Projects
Offshore Wind Farm,  
Baltic Sea
Siemens Energy carried out service activities for an offshore 
substation of a wind farm in the Baltic Sea owned by a 
European utility with more than 300 MW of installed 
capacity over a period of 5 years through 2020.
• Electrical maintenance for wind farm balance of plant
• 24/7 support for all critical systems
• Statutory inspections 
24/7 Telephone Support Hotline, 
Multiple Projects
Siemens Energy operates several Telephone Support 
Hotlines with a 24 hour per day, 365 days a year availability 
for multiple wind farms as well as Converter Platforms in 
Europe. With its contractually agreed and customizable 
reaction times for phone support, troubleshooting, or 
on-site assistance in terms of fault location and rectifying 
actions, we are able to support our customers in terms of 
technical know-how and emergency services.  
 OFW Inner Dowsing – Switching 
and Maintenance
The Offshore Wind Farm Inner Dowsing is placed in the East 
Midland Region of England about 5 km from shore. Its 
owners are the BlackRock Management Ltd and the Green 
Investment group. With 27 Siemens 3,6MW-Turbines it has 
an installed capacity of 97,2 MW. Siemens Energy does full 
scope maintenance of the on- and offshore substations, the 
cables, and the foundation of the turbines.
• Long-term services for scheduled and unscheduled 
maintenance
• Including 24/7 support and high-voltage switching 
services
• Secondary system support (repair across als national grid 
substations, up to 400kV)
 Veja Mate Offshore Wind Farm, 
North Sea
Veja Mate is an offshore wind farm with a capacity of 402 
MW being built in the German North Sea. The project is 
located ~95 km NW from Borkum Island in the German 
Exclusive Economic Zone, an area with strong, steady 
winds, and it is in direct proximity to the “Deutsche Bucht” 
wind farm. For Veja Mate, Siemens Energy implemented a 
holistic service concept for scheduled and unscheduled 
maintenance and operation of the offshore wind farm, 
which is specially designed to meet the needs of complex 
offshore projects like Veja Mate.
• Full operation and maintenance service for wind farm 
balance of plant
• Including operations control with our Operations Control 
Center (OCC)
• Including marine control with our Marine Control Center 
(MCC)
Trophy for High Customer  
Satisfaction
Siemens Energy customer Veja Mate Offshore Project 
GmbH, which operates a 402-megawatt (MW) wind farm, 
was awarded “Best Offshore Wind Power Plant in Operation 
– Germany” during the 9th Economic Forum Offshore 
(WFO) held on Helgoland on August 28, 2020. This prize is 
awarded annually by the WFO. Evaluation criteria such as 
technical, commercial, and health, safety, environmental 
(HSE) performance were decisive for the nomination. 
Submitted data was evaluated by the Offshore Renewable 
Energy United Kingdom Catapult (ORE). Siemens Energy’s 
Control Center in Hamburg also made a significant contri-
bution for the award, and in recognition, was presented 
with a trophy by the customer. This token of great appreci-
ation underscored the high customer satisfaction. This is a 
testament to the exceptional performance of the Opera-
tions Control Center as well as the first-class cooperation 
of all parties involved.Dudgeon Offshore Wind Farm
Statoil has engaged in contract with Siemens Energy to 
provide high-voltage and secondary systems maintenance 
activities for both the onshore and offshore assets. The goal 
of the maintenance regimes was change to minimise down-
time during annual maintenance outages in cooperation 
with Statoil both on- and offshore. We have adapted our 
scheduled maintenance approach to fit with their logistical 
solution as this is the first offshore wind farm to utilize the 
SOV vessel.
• Services for warranty management
• Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance
• 24/7 and secondary system support (repair across the 
national grid substations, up to 400kV)
Greater Gabbard OWF – OFTO 
Asset Maintenance
Siemens Energy has been in contract with Balfour Beatty 
since it was awarded the OFTO maintenance contract. We 
provide on/offshore maintenance services on the OFTO 
assets at the Greater Gabbard Offshore Wind Farm. 
• Long-term services for scheduled and unscheduled 
maintenance
• Including 24/7 support and switching services for high-
voltage and secondary systems
• Secondary system support (repair across als national grid 
substations, up to 400kV)
Reference Projects 
United Kingdom
 33Offshore Grid Access | Reference Projects, United Kingdom Offshore Grid Access | Rereference Projects, Germany
32  33
Moyle Interconnector 500MW 
HVDC Link
Linking the electricity grids of Northern Ireland and Scot-
land, the Moyle Interconnector is one example for Siemens 
Energy`s operations and maintenance offerings. It was 
built and is maintained by SE and is renowned as the 
world’s most reliable HVDC link. Already fulfilling the fourth 
five-year long-term maintenance agreement, SE maintains 
the converter stations to meet world-class availability 
criteria. SE engineers and technicians who are based at the 
stations work hand in hand with the customer to provide a 
total service package. Paddy Larkin, executive director of 
Moyle Interconnector and chief executive of Mutual Energy, 
confirms: “Siemens is a trusted partner who, for +15 years 
now, has played a vital role in driving down cost, increasing 
efficiencies, and above all ensuring the safety of our equip-
ment and the people who work with us. The fact that the 
Interconnector has a world-class record of over 99 percent 
availability indicates that our service agreement is working 
very well and ensures that we can provide security of 
supply for our customers. Through Siemens we are also 
providing the asset care to ensure that our first-class perfor -
mance continues into the future.”Offshore Wind Farms of Parkwind 
in Belgium – 24/7 Troubleshooting
SE provides Emergency Support Lines with a 24 hour per 
day, 365 days per year availability for multiple offshore 
platforms in Belgium of the Parkwind NV. Expert telephone 
support as well as troubleshooting on-site support is 
provided within a contractually agreed reaction time for 
emergency repairs and fault-finding action. 
Norther Wind Farm in Belgium – 
Planned Maintenance and 
Troubleshooting
SE provides the planned maintenance as well as trou-
ble-shooting activities for high-voltage scope on the 
offshore platform of the Norther Wind Farm. The scope 
comprises a detailed planning and execution of scheduled 
maintenance as well as 24/7 availability for remote opera-
tions and emergency trouble-shooting missions. LINCS Offshore Wind Farm – OFTO 
Asset Monitoring & Maintenance
Siemens Energy supports the OFTO Transmission Invest-
ment at LINCS Offshore Wind Farm providing asset moni-
toring and maintenance services on the SVC, Switchgear, 
and SCADA including Routers / Switches / Bay Controllers / 
IED / Inter-face to Protection Relays. Westermeerwind Wind Farm  
– Full Scope Maintenance
Westermeerwind is a near-shore offshore wind farm in the 
Flevoland Region owned by Westermeerwind BV. With its 
48 turbines, it has an installed capacity of 144 MW. The 
OWF was not only built and delivered by SE, but also the 
service activities at the onshore substation, the cables, and 
the foundations of the wind turbines are carried out by us. 
Furthermore, we handle all the switching processes, opera-
tions processes, and the wind farm availability warranty. 
The service contract with Westermeerwind has a running 
time of 15 years.
Fryslân – Full Scope Maintenance
The Fryslân Offshore Windfarm will be set up in the Ijssel-
meer in the region Friesland close to the OWF Wester -
meer-wind. With its 89 turbines, the OWF will have close to 
400 MW of installed capacity. The owner is Windpark 
Fryslân B.V.. Since there is no offshore substation, SE will 
carry out service activities at the onshore substation, the 
cables, and the foundations of the wind turbines over a 
period of 15 years. The switching and operation processes 
will also be covered by Siemens Energy as well as the wind 
farm availability warranty.
Reference Projects 
Netherlands & 
Belgium
 35Offshore Grid Access | Reference Projects, Netherlands & Belgium Offshore Grid Access | Reference Projects, United Kingdom
34
Les Mées Project 
A 40MW photo-voltaic power plant was built, maintained, 
and operated for five years by Siemens Energy. The plant 
was one of the first biggest PV plants in 2010 with a high 
performance ratio of 82%.
SVC Cheviré 
The “Cheviré” Project, executed by Siemens Energy France, 
meets RTE’s need to improve the safety and stability of the 
Brittany region high-voltage grid. It involved turn-key 
installation plus maintenance for two years of a -100 / +250 
MVAr Static Var Compensator to provide automatic, real-
time injection of reactive power onto the French EHV grid. 
The Customer RTE is the French High-Voltage Transmission 
grid operator. For two years, we worked together with the 
customer to reach an availability of 98%.
 Inelfe 2000MW HVDC Link
Linking the electricity grids of France and Spain, Inelfe, one 
of the biggest interconnectors is an example of Siemens 
Energy’s operations and maintenance offerings and 24/7 
emergency response agreements for five years. It was built 
and main-tained by Siemens Energy, providing one of the 
best availability (98%) for a HVDC link. SE engineers and 
technicians who are based at the stations work hand in 
hand with the customer RTE, which is the utility grid and 
the owner of the link, to provide a total service package. 
Eleclink 1000mMW HVDC Link 
The HVDC interconnector linking the electricity grids of 
France and the United Kingdom is another example of SE`s 
operations and maintenance offerings and 24/7 emergency 
response agreements for five years. It was built and is main-
tained by Siemens Energy. Our engineers and technicians 
who are based at the stations are working hand in hand 
with the customer Eurotunnel, which is the private owner 
of the link, to put in place a total service package. Reference Projects 
France
Maintenance of Transmission 
System in Virginia
Dominion Energy Lexington and Valley has a five year 
maintenance service contract with Siemens Energy which 
features a monthly informational newsletter with informa-
tion about new security patches to guarantee a high secu-
rity level. We also provide a five year annual maintenance 
service for Dominion Energy at Yorktown, Landstown, 
Fentress, and Lynnhaven on four STATCOMs 125 MVArs 
capacity inductive/capacitive and additional Mobile 
STATCOM.Full Operation of Transmission 
System in New Jersey
Siemens Energy provides the LIPA Wildwood and Holtsville 
with a five year contract covering their annual mainte-
nance.Reference Projects 
United States
 37Offshore Grid Access | Reference Projects, United States Offshore Grid Access | Reference Projects, France
36
Maintenance of Transmission 
System in Illinois
SE has a service agreement with Siemens Energy covering 
five year annual maintenance with patch management.
Lifeguard Extended Warranty of 
Transmission System in Missouri
Siemens Energy provides an eight year lifeguard agreement 
and bronze patch management service for Ameren 4 X 
Statcoms.
Full Operation of Transmission 
System in Texas
Siemens Energy has a five year annual maintenance service 
agreement for AEP Welsh HVDC and a ten year gold patch 
management service agreement for Oncor 2 X STATCOMs. 
The gold level is an on-site installation from SE security 
engineers. Our engineers install and test all patches for the 
customer so that the customer fulfills the cyber security 
requirements of NERC CIP regulations. 
Siemens Energy also provides full operation and mainte-
nance with stationed personnel at Oncor Tule Canyon and 
Alibates each 125 MVars synchronous condensers with gold 
patch management including the system replica for tests 
and simulations.
Maintenance of Synchronous 
Condensers in New Mexico
PNM Blackwater holds a Synchronous Condenser ten year 
long-term service agreement for minor, medium, and major 
maintenance work along with quarterly and annual mainte-
nance work.Full Operation and Maintenance 
Transmission Line with 660MW 
HVDC Back-to-Back under Hudson 
River, NY/NJ
Siemens Energy provides full operation and maintenance of 
the converter stations Neptune and Hudson as well as both 
end substations for a seven year contract. Our scope 
includes:
• Technical support and advisory services 
• Routine and preventive on-site maintenance 
• 24/7 Emergency services 
• Repair and troubleshooting
• Overall building management including spare parts 
management, procurement, and delivery. 
On the operational side, we are providing: 
• Reporting services 
• Coordination with EPC obligations 
• Project operation and dispatch as well coordination with 
system operators.
Maintenance Agreement of Indus-
trial Voltage Regulator in Georgia
Annual maintenance responsibilities are provided to 
Southern Company Georgia Power SVC by Siemens Energy 
through a maintenance agreement.
Field Technical Assistance of Trans-
mission System in Michigan
Minnesota Power and North Shore FSC in Michigan relies 
on Siemens Energy for a five year field technical assistance 
agreement.Maintenance of Synchronous 
Condensers and Patch Manage-
ment in California
Siemens Energy holds a ten year bronze patch management 
service agreement with Trans Bay Cable Third Line HVDC. 
Additionally, SE provides a ten year long-term service agree-
ment for minor, medium, and major maintenance for 7 x 
250 MVar Synchronous Condesers annually with gold patch 
management for SDG&E Talega, Songs, Miguel, and San 
Luis Rey SynCons. Patch management and cyber assets 
inventory for cyber security requirements and maintenance 
are provided according to NERC CIP regulations. Gold level 
patch management also includes a system replica for tests 
and simulations.
38  39Offshore Grid Access | Reference Projects, United States Offshore Grid Access | Reference Projects, United States
Published by © 2021 Siemens Energy
Transmission Service  
Humboldtstr. 64  
90459 Nuremberg, Germany
Customer Support Center  
Phone: +49 911 6505 6505  
E-Mail: support@siemens-energy.com
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com/t-service
“Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, 
or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract.”
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.