Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Berlin , March 28, 2023  
Ramping up  renewable energy: Siemens Energy 
connects Italy's largest islands to the mainland  
• HVDC link between mainland Italy, Sicily and Sardinia enables exchange of up to  one gigawatt  for each 
interconnection  
• Improved efficiency , security of supply and better integration of renewable energy  
 
For Italy to benefit from renewable energy in the future , the islands of Sardinia, Sicily and the Italian 
mainland must be able to flexibly exchang e electricity. Siemens Energy will make this possible by 
providing the high -voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission technology to a 970 km long power link . 
Italian transmission system operator Terna has awarded  the consortium of Siemens Energy and Italy 's 
FATA  (part of Danieli group)  a contract  to supply four converter stations for the "Tyrrhenian Link" project. 
The HVDC  link will enable more efficient use of renewable energ y, increase stability of the power grids , 
and enable the close down  of coal-fired power plants  on the two islands  to reduce  CO 2 emissions. The 
order volume for Siemens Energy amounts to just under one billion euros.  
 
"The expansion of power grids must receive the same attention as the expansion of renewable energies," 
says T im Holt, member of the Managing Board of Siemens Energy. "Italy has excellent conditions for 
renewable power generation. The  project  will ensure that the regions involved can also derive the best 
possible economic benefits from this and help Italy achieve a more sustainable and secure power 
supply."  
 
To meet the  EU’s  Fit-for-55 targets b y 2030 , it will be necessary to install in Italy 70 gigawatts of new 
renewable energy capacity to reach at least 65 percent share in gross electricity consumptions.  
Interconnecting Italy's largest islands and the mainland will make it possible to flexibly transport green 
energy to where it is needed.  
 
Tyrrhenian  Link is Siemens Energy's first HVDC pro ject in Italy. The energy technology  company will build 
four converter stations at the respective end points of the two sections of the lin k: The East Section  of 
the li nk connects Campania on the Italian mainland with Sicily,  while  the West S ection connect s Sicily Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
with Sardinia. The stations convert alternating current fed from the respective local grid into direct 
current for transport via undersea cables. The station at the other end of the line converts the electricity 
back into alternating current so th at it can be fed back into the regional grid. In this way,  a total of  up to 
one gigawatt  of green power for each interconnection can be efficiently transported over the long 
distances at a DC voltage of 500 kilovolts.  
 
Siemens Energy will manufacture the main components of the four stations, such as the converter 
technology, transformers,  and switchgear, in Europe. Consortium partner FATA, in sub -consortium with 
Italian construction companies Impresa Manca Costruzioni Ge nerali S.p.A. and Pizzulo Costruzioni s.r.l., 
will be responsible for the civil works, electromechanical installation , construction of ancillary facilities 
and pre-commissioning  support . The completion of construction of the  converter stations is scheduled  
for the end of 2028 .  
 
 
 
Technical details:  
System type: 2 x HVDC bipoles  
Type of converter: Voltage Source Converter  
Capacity: 2 x 1  gigawatt  
DC Voltage: +/- 500 kilovolt  
 

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact for journalists  
Christina Huemmer  
Phone:  +49 15207158923  
E-mail:  christina.huemmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture is available at  
www.siemens -energy.com/press  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on 
energy system s for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions 
and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The 
portfo lio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated 
with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. A majority stake in the wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable 
Energy (SGR E) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity 
generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 92,000 people worldwide in 
more than 90 countri es and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022.  
www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
 