Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , Octo ber 27, 2021  
Green  energy for New York : Siemens Energy  
will connect state’s  first utilit y-scale  offshore 
wind farm to the grid  
• Sunrise Wind will support New York’s goal of 100 percent clean electricity by 2040  
• Green energy for nearly 600 000 homes in New York State  
• First offshore HVDC grid connection project in the U.S , deploying a technology that will reduce 
transmission losses over long distances  
 
Siemens Energy has been awarded its first  offshore  grid connection project in the United State s. In a 
consortium with Aker Solutions, the company will supply  the high -voltage direct current (HVDC) 
transmission system  that will  bring green energy from Sunrise Wind,  New York’s first utility -scale  
offshore wind project, to the mainland.  It’s the first offshore wind project in the U.S. to use HVDC 
technology.  The approximately 924 megawatts wind farm  is developed by a joint venture  between 
Danish clean energy  company Ørsted and  US-based energy provider  Eversource . Located about 50 
kilometers (30 miles) east of Long Island , Sunrise Wind will supply green energy to nearly 600,000 
homes in New York State  and support  the state’s goal to meet its 100 percent  clean electricity  by 
2040 goal .  
 
“To date, we have connected the offshore grid to the mainland 21 times, bringing more than 12 
gigawatts of wind power to households in Europe. The fact that we are now able to proceed with 
our very first offshore HVDC grid connection project in the United States makes us proud,” said Tim 
Holt, member of the Executive Board at Siemens Energy. “ Carbon -neutrality goals will not be met 
without wide -scale deployment of renewable energy projects like Sunrise Wind. There will be many 
more wind projects like this i n the U.S. and we are happy to do our part to help provide the country 
with sustainable power.”  
 
Siemens Energy will deliver the  HVDC system  on a turnkey basis and provide onshore civil work  in 
partnership with local companies . The HVDC system  will enable the low -loss transport of the 
generated green energy from the wind farm to the mainlan d. It consists of two converter stations: Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
The offshore converter station will collect the 66 kilovolts ( kV) alternating current (AC)  power 
generated by the wind turbine s through an inter -array cable system and  transform it to 320 kV DC 
for transmission through a 160 kilometers export cable to the onshore converter station, located at 
Holbrook on Long Island . The onshore station will convert the power back to AC to feed it into the 
distribution grid which will bring the energy to homes, industry, and other end users  in New York . 
Aker Solutions is responsible for the platform consisting of a steel jacket substr ucture, and a topside 
platform deck housing the electrical equipment.  Sunrise Wind will support the establish ment of  an 
enduring offshore wind supply chain in New York State. The onshore installation of the project’s 
converter station will be carried out b y local companies. The final deliveries are scheduled for 
second half of 2025.  
 
 
Picture description: The offshore converter station will collect the alternating current power 
generated by the wind turbines and transform it to direct current.  
 
 
 

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact for journalists  
Christina Hümmer  
Telefon:  +49 152 07158923  
E-Mail:  Christina.Huemmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture are available at  
https://press.siemens -energy.com/global/en/pressrelease/green -energy -new -york-siemens -energy -
will-conn ect-states -first-utility -scale -offshore  
For further information on Siemens Energy Transmission, please see https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/o fferings/power -transmission.html  
For further information on high -voltage direct current technology , please see https://www.siemens -
energy.com/global/en/offerings/power -transmission/portfolio/high -voltage -direct -current -
transmissio n-solutions.html  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners o n energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to stor age. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonize d. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy.  Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 