Alternative Fluids  
Restricted  © 2020 Siemens Energy  Page  1 
siemens -energy.com  Alternative Fluids 
Ester insulation for transformers

Alternative Fluids  ©
 2024 Siemens Energy Page 2Alternativ e fluid s on the rise 
Alternativ e fluid s are an effectiv e leve r to 
increas e sustainabilit y and safet y of 
transmission and distribution products. 
Natural and synthetic ester insulation .
Safety, reliability and a low environmental impact are crucial 
for energy equipment, especially in large cities or industrial 
applications. Occupied premises must be safe from the risk 
of fire or explosion of the installed electrical assets, supply 
disruption must be avoided by ensuring high network 
reliability, and environmental considerations are a high 
priority. 
Siemens Energy was one of the first manufacturers to build 
transformers filled with ester instead of mineral oil. Having 
started with distribution transformers, small power 
transformer units were also insulated using ester soon after. 
The ratings grew bigger, and, in addition to synthetic ester, 
research and development of natural ester-filled 
transformers also started. 
Today, Siemens Energy are the partners of choice for 
customers worldwide when it comes to substituting mineral 
oil. Maybe your transformer will be our next project? 
Reasons for alternative fluids 
When Siemens Energy started using alternative fluids as 
transformer insulation, customers were usually forced to 
substitute mineral oil due to external circumstances like 
environmental protection, nearby lakes or drinking water 
reservoirs.  Fire safety measures were also sometimes a 
reason to look for alternatives. 
Unrestricted Today the capabilities of esters are almost unlimited, as are 
the reasons why equipment operators decide to choose 
these fluids. They are used in almost any application and 
any location. Their benefits are just as numerous. 
As the ageing performance of esters exceeds those of 
mineral oil, transformers filled with ester can be operated at 
higher temperatures than conventionally filled units. This is 
also proposed by IEC 60076-14  which includes over 
temperatures and hotspot temperatures for winding designs 
using thermally upgraded paper. 
Energy equipment operators have been relying on the 
expertise of Siemens Energy for decades when it comes to 
their assets. If you want to lever the advantages of 
alternatively insulated units as well, you are welcome to 
make use of our know-how and consultancy services. 

Alternative Fluids  U
nrestricted © 2024 Siemens Energy Page 3Technical benefits of ester 
insulation  
Ester insulation offer s considerable benefits 
to grid operators. The y are not only readily  
biodegradable but have additional 
advantages due to their specific technical 
characteristics.  
We differentiate between three types of alternative fluids: 
• Silicone oil (fully synthetic)
• Synthetic ester (derived from chemicals)
• Natural ester (derived from plant seed oils)
What they all have in common is that they extend product 
lifetime – if the equipment is designed and manufactured 
at the highest possible quality level . The degree of 
polymerization decreases more slowly with alternative 
fluids than with mineral oil. All the fluids mentioned above 
have a high capability to remove  water from the cellulose 
insulation of the active part, while their dielectric strength 
is unaffected by water. Their chemical character istics also 
allow for higher temperature li mits, which is a benefit 
when operating  any kind of transformer.  
Technical characteristics  of insulation liquids  
Type  Characteristics  Disadvantages  Advantages  
Mineral oil  
Biodegradable  
mineral oil  Made from non -renewable 
resources  
Made from renewable or 
non-renewable resources  •Limited biodegradability
•Low fire point
•Low fire point •Readily biodegradable
Silicon oil Fully synthetic  •High viscosity at high
temperatures
•Poor lubrication properties
•Limited biodegradability•High flash point
•Self-extinguishing
•High thermal stability
Synthetic ester  Derived from chemicals  •Higher oxidation stability
than nat ural  ester
•Higher  hygroscopic
properties
•Better cold temperature
performance than nat ural
ester
•Readily biodegradable
Natural ester  Made from plant seed oils 
(e.g. soya, canola, 
sunflower)  •Less paper ag eing than
mineral oil
•Higher flash and fire
points than syn thetic  ester
•Readily biodegradable
Advantages of ester insulation:  
•Increase sustainability
-Readily biodegradable
•Greater  fire safety
-Higher flash and fire point
-K class rating (IEC 61100 / 61039)
-Lower gas conversion factor
-Tank rupture prevention
•Lifetime extension
-Slower decrease in the degree of
polymerization
-High capability to remove  water from
cellulose
-Dielectric strength unaffected by water
-Higher temperature limits
•Cost savings
-Lower an nual insurance premiums
Unrestricted © 2024 Siemens Energy Page 4Alternativ e Fluids  
Este r in all produc t classes 
Toda y Siemen s Energ y provide s ester-
insulated transformers for distribution and 
transmission applications. 
The Siemens Energy transformer portfolio 
filled with synthetic and natural ester oils 
Our extensive and in-depth research in our own labs allows 
us to fill transformers for all kinds of applications .
As one of the innovation leaders in the 
transformer i ndustry, we strive to be the first to provide 
our customers with innovative solutions in terms of ester 
usage, and we are keen to work with you to meet your 
challenges in this regard. 
Siemens Energy’s transformer portfolio with  alternative insulation  

Alternative Fluids  
Unrestricted  © 202 3 Siemens Energy  Page  5 Selection of  references  
World’s first phase -shiftin g transformer with 
ester insulation 
In 20 17 this phase-shifting transformer was ordered by a 
local U.S. utility to control the power flow and rapidly 
adjust to changes in the power demand in a metropolitan 
area. The transformer is extremely quiet and meets the 
particularly high requirements in terms of reliability and 
eco-friendliness to protect the environment in the unlikely 
event of a failure.  
Ratio  300 MVA  
138 ±25°// 138 kV  
Insulation liquid:  Synthetic ester  
Design insulation level:  
AC induced  
Lightning impulse  
Switching impulse  145 kV  
650 kV  
540 kV  
OLTC:  MR VRC  
Total / fluid weight:  ≈ 311 tons / ≈ 86 ton  
Cooling type:  KNAN/KDAN  World’s first 420 kV power transformer with 
natural ester insulation  
In 2013 the first 420 kV / 300 MVA transformer with 
natural ester insulation was supplied  to TransnetBW. The 
use of the transformer in the substation in Bruchsal , 
Germany, is an essential part of the environmental strategy 
of the German transmission system operator.   
Ratio  405 +/- 11% / 115 / 22 kV 
Insulation liquid:  Natural  ester  
Design insulation level:  
AC induced  
Lightning impulse  
Switching impulse  630 kV 
1425 kV  
1050 kV  
OLTC:  MR VRC  
Total weight:  400 tons  
Cooling type:  KDAF/KNAN  

Unrestricted  © 202 3 Siemens Energy  Page  6 
Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Freyeslebenstr. 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany  F
or more information, please visit our website: 
siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance f eatures which may 
not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further devel opment of the products. The 
requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product de signations may be 
trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies  whose use by third parties for their own purposes 
could violate the rights of the owners  For the U.S. published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc  
Transmission  
8841 Wadford Drive  
Raleigh, NC 27616  
USA  