66 kV FITformer® WIND l High-voltage, low losses, small size
© 2020 Siemens Energy Page 1
siemens-energy.com siemens-energy.comHigh -voltage, low 
losses, small size
66 kV FITformer® WIND for wind applications
66 kV FITformer® WIND l High-voltage, low losses, small size
© 2020 Siemens Energy Page 2The challenge
While wind turbines were producing 0.5 MW of power at a
height of 40 meters in 1990, today’s wind turbines produce
10 MW and beyond. However, the voltage level output
stayed at 33 kV for quite a long time.
An offshore wind farm in Denmark was one of the first to
be equipped with 7 MW turbines and to be connected to
a 66 kV grid voltage instead of 33 kV back in 2017. With
the increased power capability (the SWT-7.0-154 provides
10% more output than its predecessor), the efficiency of
wind power generation could also be increased. Therefore,
the new generation of wind turbines has a voltage output
of 66 kV, which allows reduced losses and higher efficiency
in wind turbine operation. One of the key components in
this process is a new generation of wind transformers
which started first serial deliveries in 2017.The solution
To operate on a new voltage level, a brand-new trans-
former type fitting all requirements had to be developed
from scratch, designed and manufactured in a joint
collaboration as a partner of the OEM. The new generation
of wind transformer FITformer WIND is a fluid immersed
8.2 MVA transformer for a grid-voltage level of 66 kV. Un-
like their predecessors, these transformers are not installed
at the bottom of the turbines, but inside the nacelle. Space
being very limited in a turbine, the new transformers are
very compact and lightweight, while at the same time
highly efficient, according to the Eco design directive,
supported from a water cooling system used on the whole
medium-voltage equipment inside the nacelle. Moreover,
their design has been optimized to cope with the hostile
conditions of offshore applications and to keep mainte-
nance demand as low as possible.FITformer® WIND
– the optimal choice for wind applications

66 kV FITformer® WIND l High-voltage, low losses, small size
Restricted © 2020 Siemens Energy Page 3
Special technical aspects
1. Dimensions
Due to the limited space in a wind turbine’s nacelle, the 
transformer’s dimensions needed to be kept as small
as possible. Although being a very large unit for a distribu-
tion transformer with 8.2 MVA, the new FITformer WIND
for the 66 kV level keeps size and weight at a minimum   
below 20 tons.
2. Efficiency
Efficiency is a crucial factor when it comes to renewable 
power generation. The new voltage level of 66 kV instead
of the former 33 kV standard already optimizes the opera-
tional efficiency of the application. Additionally, the new
generation of FITformer WIND for the 7 MW wind turbines 
is designed according to the Eco design directive and meets 
the latest efficiency standards from the growing offshore 
wind market.
3. Robust and reliable
Offshore applications must withstand very severe ambient 
conditions. Wind and salty water impose the hardest strains 
on all installed equipment. High vibrations and overload re-
quirements as well as harmonics are challenges that add tothe task of developing a high-tech transformer like the
FITformer WIND for the 66 kV level. Being the supplier of 
choice for one of the most renowned wind energy compa-
nies for decades, Siemens Energy Transformers rose to this 
challenge with full commitment deemed to be a strong 
sustainable partner.
4. High temperature design
The new FITformer WIND for 66 kV wind applications is not 
only vibration and short-circuit tested. It is also manufac-
tured in high temperature design, according to IEC 60076-
14, and is cooled using water to fluid heat exchangers. It is 
insulated with high-temperature material and uses ester as 
an insulation fluid. This adds to the transformer’s perfor-
mance as esters can be run at higher temperatures than 
mineral oils. Moreover, it also increases operational
safety and compatibility with environmental safety stan-
dards, as ester is naturally biodegradable.
5. Low maintenance
Maintenance on offshore equipment is a cost-intensive   
exercise. Low maintenance and reliable operation for     
decades are key criteria for offshore wind turbine opera-
tors. The new FITformer WIND fulfills all expectations be-
cause it requires little to no maintenance at all.
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transmission
Freyeslebenstr. 1
91058 Erlangen
Germany
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners. For the U.S. published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc
Transmission
4601 Six Forks Road 
Raleigh, NC 27609
USA 