Transformer 
Service
Reliable, professional solutions for safe operation
siemens-energy.com/gt-service

Our service portfolio
Transformer diagnostics
All planning is first based on a detailed diagnosis of the technical conditions on site.  
We provide the requisite personnel, measuring equipment and our many years of expertise.
The following parameters can be  
checked on site:
•  Inspection including visual  
and functional check
•  Oil sampling and oil analysis
•  Noise emission measurements•  Electrical measurements on the  
transformer and bushings
•  Application of a mobile  
test bay for high-voltage tests
•  Partial discharge measurements  
(acoustical and electrical)Siemens Energy power transformers are charac-
terized by extremely high availability and long 
service life. We recommend several selected 
modules from our service portfolio to ensure that 
this availability remains 
consistently high over 
years and decades and 
to prevent any 
unscheduled outages.
3
Transformer assessment  
and maintenance
Our specialists keep track of all relevant factors 
in the technical assessment of a transformer. This 
also includes a mechanical and electrical 
inspection as well as the analysis of the oil used. 
The resulting findings are evaluated following 
our standardized assessment methodology. The 
customer thus receives a meaningful diagnostics 
report on the actual condition of its transformer 
including a recommendation for action. 
Maintenance measures can then be derived from this in order to ensure availability in the future. 
We are pleased to offer regular maintenance by 
our qualified specialists to cover these measures.
Spare parts
Our service department offers spare parts 
solutions for all transformer models. The 
selection is based on Siemens Energy’s technical 
specifications. No compromise is made in quality 
of the spare parts used.
Installation activities
The life cycle of a power transformer extends 
over several decades. It may be necessary to 
replace parts or assembly groups over this 
service life. This maintenance work may 
necessitate that the transformer be opened. We 
offer complete service packages to ensure that 
this proceeds as smoothly as possible. We start 
from the basis of the above technical analysis 
and the preparation of design and process 
documents. This is followed by provision of the 
requisite spare parts and assembly parts. Finally, 
we deploy an installation team with professional 
and technical longtime experience. With this 
complete solution, we take over the full responsi-
bility for a complex process with many interfaces.
4

Oil treatment
An important factor for ensuring availability is 
the condition of the insulating oil. The condition 
of this oil determines the extent to which safe, 
continuous operation of the transformer is 
possible. Moisture, degradation products and 
acids in the oil jeopardize safe operation and also 
shorten service life. It is therefore important to 
regularly check the condition of the oil and to 
take appropriate action in the event of a 
decrease in oil quality. Siemens Energy offers the 
following solutions: 
•  SITRAM DRY  
If the moisture content of the insulating oil is 
too high, the use of SITRAM DRY is 
recommended. This system effectively removes 
moisture from both the insulating oil and from 
solid insulating materials such as paper, 
pressboard and plywood.This increases the 
dielectric strength of the current-carrying 
components and counteracts the aging process 
of the insulating materials.  
•  SITRAM REG  
If the insulating oil contains a high fraction of 
degradation products and acids, it can be completely regenerated using the SITRAM REG 
system. The regeneration process cleans the oil 
and restores it to the quality level of new oil. 
The regeneration process is highly cost-ef-
fective, as it is especially time-saving and does 
not require the transformer to be shut down. 
Depending on the initial condition, the 
application of both systems retains or improves 
the technical parameters of the insulating oil 
used. This significantly reduces transformer 
aging and improves operating reliability. The 
application of these systems is a plus for sustain-
ability and conservation of resources.
5

24/7 phone service and on-call service
On request, our transformer service provides 
you with telephone support 24 hours a day,  
7 days a week. 
Our Support Center is your contact point, 
processing incoming calls and forwarding them 
to our specialists and technicians.
We are pleased to offer our customers individual 
telephone service and on-call contracts upon 
request. Our service includes the following 
components:  •  Component 1:  
Return call by a specialist within a  
defined time
•  Component 2:  
Arrival of a service technician within a  
defined time
Overhaul and repairs in the  
manufacturing plant
Depending on the initial situation, it may be 
expedient from an economic standpoint to have 
an older or damaged transformer overhauled at 
one of our Siemens Energy production locations. 
Based on our experience, an overhaul restores 
transformer availability for an extended time 
with no restrictions in operating reliability. There 
are advantages over the production of a new 
transformer. An overhaul and restoration are 
usually significantly more cost-effective and 
time-efficient. Our customers also experience 
significantly shorter outage times.
On-site repairs
In many cases, it is not possible or cost-effective 
to bring the transformer to one of our manufac-
6

turing plants for repair because of the necessary 
heavy transport.
In these cases we can offer our customers on-site 
repair. An individual solution may be elaborated 
depending on the existing infrastructure.
Training and education
We are pleased to pass on the necessary 
knowledge to the user to ensure trouble-free 
operation of a specific transformer. The training 
instruction is adapted to customer requirements.Worldwide transformer service
Our service concept is based on a global network 
of technicians and experts. We offer you the 
service you need on site, wherever your power 
transformer is implemented. Contact us. We will 
be pleased to provide our experience and 
expertise to you.
Contact:
• Phone: +49 (0) 911 6505 6505
• Email: tlm.de@siemens-energy.com
7

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Grid Technologies Service
Humboldtstr. 64  
90459 Nuremberg, Germany
Customer Support Center  
Phone: +49 911 6505 6505  
Email: support@siemens-energy.com
siemens-energy.com/gt-service  
© 2023 Siemens Energy
“Subject to changes, data are not guaranteed. The information in 
this document contains only general descriptions or features that 
do not always apply to specific applications in the described form 
or which may change due to further development of the products. 
The requested performance features are binding only when they 
are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.”  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.More  
Information
