 
Frei verwendbar  Technical Information Package SCC-8000H | SeaFloat |2021  1 
 
SeaFloat SCC -800 0H 
Technical Solution Information  
©Siemens Energy 2022  
Siemens Energy is a trademark  licensed  by Siemens AG  
www.siemens -energy.com/seafloat  
 
Frei verwendbar  Technical Information Package SCC-8000H | SeaFloat |2021  2 
 
  
 
Substitution of aged coal fired power plants with  
high efficient combined cycle solutions  
Emissions compared to coal fired plants  
More than 50% savings in CO2 Emissions  
with related impact on project financing/tax  
Fuel supply from shore or via separate FSRU  
possible – alternatively with FSRP** concept  Substitution of coal fired power plants without 
inte rference with existing asset during off -site 
construction  
 - up tp  20% better LCoE*  
 - No Brownfield Risk such as demolishing works, 
relocation of existing infrastructure.  SeaFloat SCC -8000H  
For location where Real Estate is a prime actor such 
as megacities with water access  Key Benefits of SeaFloat SCC -8000 H 1+1 
 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 3 
 
 
 
 
Figure: Typical Single -lift Package with SGT -800  
1x1 SCC -8000H = 170m x 56m (length x width) ; Draft 7m  -10m  
Scope of supply and services  
The Siemens Energy  scope of supply for main 
components of the SCC -8000H in a 1x1 
configuration comprises the following major 
equipment:  
 
• SGT -8000H gas turbine  
• SGen -2000P gas turbine generator  
• SST-5000 steam turbine  
• SGen -100A steam turbine air -cooled 
generator  
• Steam  condense r 
• Drum type, triple pressure , reheat heat 
recovery steam generator  
• Power control center for Siemens 
supplied items (including uninterrupted 
power supply, battery, low voltage 
switchgear)  
• SPPA -T3000 plant control system  
• Sampling and chemical dosing skid  
• Components for gas handling (including 
gas flowmeter, gas -chromatograph, gas -
preheater)  
• Main pumps  
• Erection and commissioning service for 
Siemens supplied items (as a separate 
contract)  
 
All remaining scope of supply is within the 
obligation of the shipya rd or third party, which 
closely aligns with Siemens Energy to ensure a 
state of the art and reliable power plant.  
 
 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 4 Outstanding performance available in SeaFloat application  
The SGT -8000H based combined cycle power plant, in a multi shaft 
arrangement, has been optimized for the SeaFloat application ( i.e., it can be 
installed on floating devices such as barges or platforms). The design is based 
on Siemens Energy's proven land -based reference power plant, known to 
provide reliable electricity at high efficiency and low cost.  
 
SCC-8000H SeaFloat multi shaft plants are arranged in 1x1 arrangement: one 
(1) gas turbine, one (1) HRSG, and one (1) steam turbine.  If desired simple 
cycle  installation can be provided as well.  The SeaFloat adaption of the SGT -8000H is designed to withstand typical 
maritime conditions motions (roll & pitch, accelerations), hull deflections and 
respective environmental conditions.  With the SCC -8000H SeaFloa t power 
plant, the proven H -class benefits have now been complemented with all the 
benefits of a mobile, floating power plant.  
 
The SCC -8000H based SeaFloat combined cycle power plant provides an 
optimum balance between capital cost, plant performance as w ell as operation 
and maintenance benefits.  
 
 
Key benefits of SGT 8000H  
• High efficiency (up to 41% SC, >61% CC)  
• Fast start -up capability, high operational flexibility  
• Low lifecycle costs  
• High reliability and availability  
• High serviceability  
• Reduced emissions per kWh  
• High efficiency and low emission also in part -load 
operation  
• Future fit: capable of burning up to 30% hydrogen  
 
 
 
 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 5 Brief description of the main components  
Pre-designed single lift packages will be installed at highly qualified shipyards. 
The high grade of pre -fabrication of Siemens  Energy  in-house Heat Recovery 
Steam Generator ( HRSG ) contributes to the quick installation on the barge.  
Commissioning of the systems, inclusive HRSG cleaning, is done at the 
shipyard, thus the ho ok up and hot commissioning at final destination is 
minimized . 
 
Gas Turbine  (GT)  
 
The SGT -8000H is a single shaft gas turbine of single casing design with high 
efficiency, low fuel consumption and low emissions , high availability and 
reliability, and a service -oriented design with  long inspection intervals. 
Following a long history of successful Siemens  Energy  gas turbine 
development, the SGT -8000H provides the following advanced design 
features:  
- 16 can annular c ombustor -based Platform Combustion System (PCS)  
- Axial 13 stage compressor with high mass flow and four rows of variable 
guide vanes for improved turndown  
- Four stage turbine : rows 1 to 3 with improved thermal barrier coated  
blades and vanes, proven casting materials  
- Disc -type rotor with central tie bolt and radial serrations  
- Two journal bearings and one thrust bearing  
- Generator drive at compressor intake  
- Axial exhaust diffuser  
The rotor is supported by two journal bearings and one thrust bearing. The 
combined journal and thrust bearing are located at the compressor end and 
the second journal bearing at the exhaust end of the turbine.  
The rotor is an assembly of blade carrying di sks, and hollow shaft sections, 
held together by a pre -stressed central tie bolt. Hirth serration ensures the 
alignment of disks and hollow shaft sections at the same time allowing free 
radial expansion and contraction. The turbine rotor is air -cooled inte rnally. The combustion system consists of 16 baskets with air cooled transitions. The 
annular arrangement provides a remarkable uniformity of the exhaust gas 
temperature field over the full cross -sectional area of the turbine inlet, thus 
eliminating hot an d cold spots. The ultra -low NOx technology reduces the 
formation of thermal NOx without injection of steam or water. This 
combustion system combines all the advantages of optimal combustion, 
including : 
- Low NOx and CO emissions  
- Low pressure drop  
- High operat ing flexibility  
- Optimal size and number of burners  
- Compact design with easy accessibility  
 
Gas Turbine G enerator  
The two -pole SGen -2000P generator uses a directly water -cooled stator 
winding and a radially direct air -cooled rotor winding. The air coolers a re 
arranged at the bottom of the base frame, divided into three sections. The 
three -phase winding inserted in the stator core slots is of two -layer 
transposed -bar design. The winding is vacuum pressure impregnated together 
with the stator core. The high -voltage insulation is provided according to the 
proven MICALASTIC system. The generator rotor shaft is a vacuum -cast 
forging and is supported in two babbitt -lined journal pedestal bearings. At 
each end of the generator , a shaft -mounted low -pressure single -stage 
compressor circulates of the pressurized cooling air. Cold and warm gas 
temperatures are monitored in the relevant areas. The air gauge pressure is 
controlled in relation to the actual loading to optimize the part load efficiency. 
The stator winding ba rs contain stainless steel cooling ducts. Demineralized 
cooling water flows through these ducts and dissipates the heat from the stator 
winding. The water flows from the inlet manifold into the stator bar ends of 
the top stator bar through TeflonTM insulat ed hoses. When being discharged 
from the bars at the other end, the water is redirected into the bottom bar, 
collected by hoses and a discharge manifold , and is returned to the skid 
mounted water tank.  
An excitation transformer is used to take the excitation current from the 
auxiliary power system. A start -up frequency converter is provided for start -
 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 6 
up of the turbine generator unit. The generator acts as a motor in the converter 
mode to start the gas turbine set without an additional rotating prime  mover. 
The converter forms part of the static excitation equipment.  
Features of the generator:  
- highest efficiency  
- proven epoxy -mica insulation system of stator winding  
- low maintenance costs  
 
Steam Turbine (ST)  
 
High Pressure (HP)/Intermediate Pressure ( IP) Turbine  
With the compact design of the combined HP/IP turbine , hot steam conditions 
are confined to the middle of the casing, while the steam glands at the casing 
ends are in regions of relatively low steam conditions. Tempe rature decay is 
much slower when compared to the design with individual turbine casings. 
Consequently, the start -up times are significantly shorter.  
This compact design perfectly fits to the SeaFloat application which aims to 
decrease the footprint of the entire plant as much as possible.  
 
Low Pressure ( LP) Turbine  
The main feature of the LP turbine is the double shell inner casing, which can 
be displaced axially by means of pushrods. The differential expansion between 
rotor and casings is thus minimized un der all operating conditions. This is 
essential for high efficiency.  Condensing Plant  
The condenser is a box -type surface condenser. The steam space is of a 
rectangular cross -section in order to achieve optimum utilization of the 
enclosed volume for the necessary condensing surface. The condenser is 
located below the LP turbine and forms an integral part of it.  
The steam dome, shell, hotwell  and the water boxes are steel fabrications. The 
condenser is fixed to the foundation. Thermal expansion will be 
accommodated by means of Teflon pads.  
The double -flow LP turbine outer casing is connected to the condenser via the 
steam dome. The steam dome is welded to the exhaust casing of the turbine to 
form one unit.  
Final design of the condenser and the connection type to the LP section of the 
steam turbine can vary dependent on specific customer or site conditions.  
Baffle plates in  the water boxes preve nt sloshing of water due to anticipated 
movement of the barge.  
 
Steam Turbine Generator  
The generator is of two -pole type, with direct radial air rotor cooling and 
indirect air cooling for the stator winding.  This generator  uses either brushless 
excitatio n with a stationary field exciter and rotating bridge -connected 
rectifier or static excitation, whereby the excitation power is taken from static 
excitation equipment and supplied to the rotor winding via the brush gear, 
carbon brushes and slip rings.  
The standard design is IM 7215 according to IEC 60034 -7 and features 
pedestal type sleeve bearings.   
 
 

 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 7 Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG)   
 
The HRSG provided is a triple pressure reheat natural -circulation drum -type 
steam generator and generates steam in high, intermediate , and low -pressure 
section s. 
A condensate preheater is integrated in the HRSG. This arrangement enables 
higher efficiencies of the combined cycle power plant by using the exhaust gas 
energy to preheat the condensate before it pas ses t hrough  the feed water 
pump and into the LP system.  
The HRSG is designed for outdoor installation and there is no bypass stack 
between the gas turbine and the HRSG.  
Baffle plates in in the drums prevent sloshing of water due to anticipated 
movement o f the barge.  
 
 
 
 
 Instrumentation and Control  
To meet the technical, economic , and environmental aspects of modern power 
plants, Siemens  Energy  offer s the SPPA -T3000 digital control system. Siemens 
Energy’s  instrumentation and control expertise and in -depth knowledge of the 
power plant process shape automation solutions. It is a well proven, 
structured , and redundant concept to ensure a maximum of availability and 
reliability.  
Siemens  Energy  power plant automation will be used for almost the entire 
power plant equipment: turbines , generators , and main systems. It is based on 
open standards in hardware and software technology. Therefore , it can benefit 
from the continuous innovations being made in microelectronics. It is open for 
interfaces to automat ion systems supplied by other vendors , and to a possible 
extension of the plant in the future.  
 
Electrical Plant (Power Control Center)  
The electrical plant is designed to ensure maximum reliability of the plant’s 
auxiliary power supply in all modes of operation, using reliable, proven and 
standardized equipment.  
The necessary auxiliary power is taken from the generator s. The auxiliary 
consumers are connected to different voltage levels in accordance with  their 
function and power rating requirements.  
The electrical equipment , such as  batteries, battery chargers, LV switchgear, 
etc. is arranged in container -type enclosures (Power Control C enter s) which 
are pre -assembled,  and factory tested. The transformers and the generator 
circuit breaker s are located outdoors.  
 
Plant Start-up Times  
Plant start -up time begins with GT ignition and is completed with GT at base 
load (inlet guide vane position at base load position) as well as HP and IP steam 
bypass station s closed.  
Defining values for plant start -up conditions are ST HP/IP rotor temperat ures  
and pressures and temperatures of HP -drum and HP -superheater. Plant 

 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 8 shutdown durations before start -up are predicted based on average cool -down 
rates.  
 
Cold Start  
A cold start -up is defined as a start -up after a plant shutdown of more than 48h 
but not  longer than 120h.  
 
Warm Start -up  
A warm start -up is defined as a start -up after a plant shutdown of more than 
8h but not longer than 48h.  
 
Hot Start -up  
A hot start -up is defined as a start -up after a plant shutdown not longer than 
8h.  
 
Frequency Range (Example for 50Hz Cycle)  
The continuous operational frequency range of the power plant without 
restrictions is from 49 Hz to 51 Hz.  
Operation in the freque ncy ranges from 47 Hz to 49 Hz and from 51 Hz to 52 
Hz is limited to 30 seconds per event. After this time span the protection 
system will disconnect the power plant from the grid. The accumulated 
operation time in these frequency ranges is limited to 30 m inutes in total. After 
30 minutes an inspection is recommended. At 47 Hz and 52 Hz , power plant 
disconnection is initiated without time delay.  
 
Fulfilment of Grid Code Requirements  
Primary Frequency Control is achieved by an increase or decrease of the gas 
turbine output. Primary Frequency Control is available in the inlet guide vane  
range of the Gas Turbine. The load dynamics during Primary Frequency 
Control depend on the project sp ecific requirements. The maximum value is 
up to 3%/s of the GT nominal output. The droop setting is adjustable at the GT 
speed controller. Typical droop setting values are in the range from 3% to 8%. 
Secondary Frequency Control is achieved by load setpoint  adjustment by the 
load dispatch center, provided that the plant is operated in part load 
accordingly.  
 Motion Detection on GT, ST and HRSG  
As the power plant is built on a barge/ship the movement of the barge/ship is 
monitored by motion detectors ( acceleration & angles). The f ollowing 
directions are monitored:  
- x = surge/longitudinal  
- y = sway/transversal  
- z = heave/vertical  
If the plant is in operation and the GT, ST or HRSG exceeds the allowed level of 
acceleration, the equipment will be tripped.  
 
Con sideration of Marine Conditions  
While the SCC -8000H based SeaFloat power plant uses well proven equipment 
from Siemens  Energy ’s vast experience in land based combined power plants, 
the marine conditions, mainly movements, acceleration and hull deflection 
have been addressed by the following main measures : 
- Multiple supports with vibration de -coupling of rotating equipment  
- Stiffening of steel structures and frames ( e.g., in HRSG)  
- Flexible elements and interfaces  
- Optimization of bearings of rotating equipment  
- Baffle plates in lube oil reservoirs, boiler drums and condenser to avoid 
sloshing  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 9 Main Features and Performance Information  
SGT -8000H based SeaFloat power plants provide the highest floating combined cycle plant efficiency, even at part load operation. Dry low -NOx single or dual fuel 
burners ensure low NOx and CO emissions.  
- High GT reliability of 99.5%  
- High CC availability  
- Highest efficiency, refer to below table  
- Dry Low Emissions (DLE)  
- Low water consumption for steam cycle make up, no condensate polishing plant on board  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:  
Emissions, NOx, [ppmV]   <25 @ 15% O2 (50 -100% GT load)  
Emissions, CO, [ppmV]   <10 @ 15% O2 (50-100% GT load)  
Installed performance at ISO conditions  
 
  Combined Cycle  1x1 /50Hz  1x1 /60Hz  
Gross power output    ~675 MW   ~470 MW  
Gross plant efficiency  >61% >61%  
Number of gas turbines  1  1 
   Simple Cycle   50Hz   60Hz  
Gross p ower 
output    450 MW   310 MW  
Gross efficiency         >41%             >40%  
Typical fuel gas 
mass f low ~22 kg/s  ~16kg/s  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 10  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  List of Attachments  
Attachment 1  Plant Layout Drawing 1x1 – Top  View  
Attachment 2  Plant Layout Drawing 1x1 – Side View  
Attachment 3  Typical main flow diagram  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 11 Attachment1  – Top  view  
  

 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 12 
Attachment  2 – Side view  
  
 
Technical Information Package SCC -8000H | SeaFloat | 202 2 13 
Attachment 3 – Typical main flow diagram  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published by © Siemens Energy 202 2| Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG  
The information supplied in this technical package is for information only. Not guaranteed. Actual results are dependent on -site specifics , subject to changes and provided on an “as is” basis without 
any express or implied representation or warranty of any kind and without any verification as to accuracy, suitability , or completeness. Terms subject to a final contract between the parties. Actual 
benefits and results are dependent on a variety of factor s such as plant specification, site specifics, operational profile , and local market conditions.  