White paper | SeaFloat | September 2021  
 © 2021  Siemens Energy  Page  1 
 
  
siemens -energy.com /seafloat  Floating  
Power Plants  

White paper | SeaFloat | September 2021  
 © 2021  Siemens Energy  Page  2 The Siemen s Energy SeaFloat power plants use 
the company’s proven and reliable equipment , 
modified for application on floating devices. While 
the majority of market requests are for the 
successful SGT -800 gas turbine, solutions based 
on the e.g. SGT -8000H series have also  been 
developed to  address a variety of market  needs.  
The most obvious ch aracteristics of SeaFloat  power plants 
that distinguish them from conventional land -based  
equivalents are:  
 
• Mobility:  The entire power plant can be moved to any site 
that is accessible by sea or major rivers.  
• Land consumption:  Almost no investment for land  
acquisition is required; SeaFloat has been designed to be 
as small as possible, and it has defined a new standard in 
power density.  
• Construction in controlled environments:  Since  the 
plant’ s construction and a large portion of commissioning 
are performed using standardized equipment under 
strictly controlled conditions in the world’s leading ship-
yards, a short lead time can be realized. Construction of 
the plant also doesn’t interfere with any infrastructure 
work that might b e required onshore: for example, instal-
lation of substation, transmission line, and access roads. 
This can significantly reduce the overall time required for 
such infrastructure projects.  Typical applications include:  
 
• Powering up of remote areas like is lands  
• Development of industrial areas on shorelines or major 
rivers (for example, chemical and desalination plants)  
• Brownfield applications, in other words, the replacement 
of outdated plants like coal -fired power plants: The exist-
ing plant can continue to  operate until the new one is in 
place and ready to be connected to the grid  
• Short -term power to the grid in the event of an urgent 
need: for example, by leasing a SeaFloat power plant  
• Higher efficiency, lower emissions and lower cost of elec-
tricity than r eciprocating engines  
• Can be supplied as a Floating Storage Regasification and 
Power Unit (FSRP), improving levelized cost of electricity 
(LCoE)  
• Readiness for future H2 application  
Due on the unique advantages of floating power plants, Sie-
mens Energy sees m ore compelling applications and projects 
that we are looking forward to developing with trusted part-
ners. The option to install efficient combined cycle power 
plants on floating devices creates a wide range of project ap-
plications.  
Examples from the oil an d gas business  
SeaFloat power plants can be installed on a shared power 
hub that serves several Floating Production Storage and  
Offloading Units (FPSO) instead of each FPSO needing its 
own power supply unit. The additional space gained on the 
FPSO can be utilized to increase its oil storage capacity.  
Existing platforms with inefficient open cycle power genera-
tion units can be extended with a bottoming cycle, resulting 
in a reduced CO₂ footprint.  
  

White paper | SeaFloat | September 2021  
 © 2021  Siemens Energy  Page  3 The idea of putting power plants out to sea is not new. Float-
ing power plants with Westinghouse gas turbines can be 
found dating back to the 1990s. Floating plants that use inef-
ficient and costly reciprocating engines are available under 
leasing contracts. Because mobility, flexibility, and popula-
tion growth are all pressing concerns tod ay, a  
dedicated and agile team at Siemens  Energy  worked to de-
velop  
a floating power plant using the Siemens Energy latest - 
generation highly efficient gas turbine frames on floating de-
vices – and they succeeded in creating  SeaFloat,  a new class 
of floating  power plants.  
 
The SeaFloat technology combines state -of-the-art combined 
cycle  power plant technology with the mobility and flexibil-
ity required by the current and future energy market. Sie-
mens Energy ’s vision is a future with access to affordable but 
clean electricity and clean water for everyone. This is chal-
lenging , but a necess ary in light of climate change and the 
need to provide electrical energy for the world’s growing 
population.  
 
SeaFloat power plants can be used as an emergency backup 
for existi ng power plants during peak loads or outages and 
to provide a power supply in the event of a humanitarian dis-
aster. SeaFloat power plants can even be supplemented with 
a desalination plant to provide clean potable water and help 
prevent disease. A wide ran ge of gas turbine frames and 
combined cycle configurations are available so that an appro-
priate solution that meets specific requirements can be de-
veloped jointly by the SeaFloat team and its customers . 
 
“SeaFloat applications provide the  right an-
swers to all the flexibility and mobility needs 
of the future power market.”  
Hamed Hossain, Business Owner SeaFloat  
  1 Introduction  
Contents  
1. Introduction  
Page  3 
2. The benefits of SeaFloat  
Page  4 
3. The business cases  
Page  6 
4. SeaFloat power plants:  
Optimization of  proven 
technology  
Page  8 
5. Conclusion/ Outlook  
Page  10 
6. Disclaimer  
Page  11 
White paper | SeaFloat | September 2021  
 © 2021  Siemens Energy  Page  4 When first discussing floating power plants –on a 
vessel, barge , or platform , it brings along a lot of 
questions. What would I need it for? How well 
does it work? How is the electricity transported to 
land? How is fuel delivered to the plant? Why did 
you develop this, what are the advantages? While 
the technical aspects stimulate t he curiosity of 
engineers and trigger their can -do mentality, the 
important question is whether it is worthwhile to 
invest in a floating power plant. The simple 
answer is “ yes.” Of course, all these questions 
deserve more detailed answers, and they need to  
be considered from two angles. There is the 
economic view, and there are also social and 
environmental factors to bear in mind. These 
factors are connected, but in the following section 
we’ll be taking a detailed look at each one 
individually.  
2.1 Global awar eness  
With SeaFloat applications, it is possible to electrify remote 
areas and areas with limited space, as well as sites where the 
land is unsuitable for construction or industrial applications. 
SeaFloat enables deployment and development that drives 
econ omic growth in areas that are inaccessible by road or 
that lack HV transmission lines to import power. In countries 
that are hit hard by catastrophes like hurricanes, earth-
quakes, or tsunamis, immediate power from SeaFloat power 
plants allows the recovery process to begin as soon as possi-
ble. When there is extensive damaged or destroyed infra-
structure, mobile power plants can bring power and hope to 
people and financial security to banks and lenders.  2.2 Space requirements  
The SeaFloat’s enhanced power density  enables installation 
on a floating hull. Compared with typical land -based applica-
tions, the power supply footprint can be reduced up to  
50 percent.  
2.3 Shorter schedule  
Construction time can be cut by up to 20 percent by building 
the power plants in the controlled environment  
of a shipyard. This  results in lower construction costs.  
 
The shorter timeframe for installing a SeaFloat power plant 
is due to optimized construction sequences and capabilities 
which can be realized at shipyards. High lifting capabilities 
and the design of SeaFloat equipmen t as single lift frame al-
lows the modules to be easily lifted onto a barge in one piece. 
Space and access constraints as well as a lack of heavy -lift 
cranes are typical limiting factors at land -based sites. But at 
shipyards , there are sufficient crane lift ing capabilities avail-
able, and the infrastructure also provides sufficient space 
and transport capabilities. Construction at a shipyard in-
cludes HRSG cleaning and cold  commissioning activities up 
to the very moment when the equipment is ready for first 
fire and grid connection. Of  course, these final hot commis-
sioning activities need to be executed under real grid condi-
tions at the place of final operation. But with cold  commis-
sioning being mostly completed at the shipyard, the required 
activities at the final destination are limited .  
  2 The benefits of SeaFloat  
Types of Sea-
Float plants   
Length (m)   
Width (m)   
Area (m²)  
SCC -800 2x1  ~80 ~36 ~2,880  
SCC -800 3x1  ~95 ~36 ~3,456  
SCC -800 4x1  ~107  ~36 ~3,852  
SCC5 -8000H 1x1  ~170  ~60  ~10,200  
    
White paper | SeaFloat | September 2021  
 © 2021  Siemens Energy  Page  5 The SeaFloat power plant is ready to inject power to the grid 
in the shortest possible time once it has arrived at its final 
destination . This is especially attractive when old power 
plants are being replaced. The switch to the new plant can be 
accomplished with minimum disruption to the power supply.  
2.4 Eco-friendliness  
Floating g as turbine power plants are as eco -friendly as 
those land -base d. The difference is seen in the unique fea-
tures of the floating plants. Economic advantages and eco -
friendliness are no longer mutually exclusive. Encouraging 
investors to replace inefficient power plants or coal -fired 
power plants will help fight CO₂ emi ssions and climate 
change. Existing land -based assets can still be commercially 
operated during off -site construction of the new and efficient 
SeaFloat plant.  
 
The off -site manufacture of the new platform prevents major 
interference during site activities compared with the typical 
brownfield substitution system used for land -based power 
plants. Serving remote areas with highly efficient and clean 
natural gas or LNG -driven power plants eliminates the use of 
inefficient, outdated diesel generators. This reduc es CO₂ and 
other greenhouse -gas emissions as well as local pollutants 
like dust and noise, enhancing the quality of life for the local 
population. Environmental considerations are becoming 
more and more important, and many countries are planning 
a phase -out of coal -fired power plants.   
SeaFloat power plants can even use existing structures  
like cooling water and HV grid connections and provide 
large -scale combined cycle power plants as a replacement. 
Also applications with Air Cooled Condensers as heat si nk 
are available for locations with limited cooling water availa-
bility.  
SeaFloat power plants can be  an interesting approach for in-
ternational companies that are looking for opportunities to 
reduce their CO₂ footprint, especially under the umbrella of 
the Paris Climate  Agreement.  
 
2.5 Flexible design  
Our SeaFloat combined cycle solutions can also be designed 
as full integrated solution with a floating storage regasifica-
tion power ship (FSRP) for LNG, as well as fixed platform 
types  like e.g., jack up platforms.  
 
The fully integrated SeaFloat solution with up to 180.000 m³ 
LNG storage, allows to provide clean and affordable power to 
locations without access to fuel. Installation of land -based 
LNG terminals are not necessary anymore.  
 
Alternatively power barge and LNG storage/regasification 
can be provided as separate assets . 
 
 
 
  

White paper | SeaFloat | September 2021  
 © 2021  Siemens Energy  Page  6 The economic advantages of SeaFloat power p lants need to 
be assessed holistically, taking into account not only the cost 
of the barge but also all project requirements and risk con-
tingencies, which often have a major impact on the business 
case evaluation of conventional land -based power plants.  
Substituting a  SeaFloat applicati on for a  brownfield land -
based power plant , taking into account demolition work and 
relocation of existing site infrastructure – may result in a 20 
percent shorter project schedule. SeaFloat has the potential 
to reduce CAPEX by 20 percent and yield a 25 pe rcent better 
net present value, a five percent better internal rate of re-
turn , and a 45 percent faster payback.  Replacing reciprocating engines with Siemens Energies gas 
turbines -based SeaFloat power plants can result in the fol-
lowing benefits:  
Based on p roject -specific requirements, a SeaFloat solution  
can provide major benefits of up to 20 percent better (LCoE) 
compared with reciprocating engines.  
  3 The business case s 
• Labor availability in remote areas  
• Cost of land acquisition  
• Soil and typical brownfield risks impact ing 
project schedule and costs  
• Required site preparation work  
(including leveling)  
• Demolition work and required relocation 
of existing facilities: such as:  sea water intake 
and outfall facilities and high -voltage switch-
gear  
• Interference with , or required shutdown of,  
existing plants due to new construction ac-
tivities  
• Limited accessibility by road  
• Increased efficiency of gas turbine -based 
combined cycle plant  
• Fuel flexibility with focus on LNG, natural 
gas, ethane, propane, and diesel  
• Part -load capability and efficiency of steam 
turbine design  
• Fewer emissions (COi, NOx, UHC and noise), 
important in the context of the Paris Cli mate 
Agreement as well as for financial reasons  
• Lower space requirements due to higher 
power density  
• Long maintenance intervals resulting in 
fewer required maintenance staff and signifi-
cantly greater availability  
White paper | SeaFloat | September 2021  
 © 2021  Siemens Energy  Page  7  
After carefully screening market and customer 
requirements, Siemens Energy now offers 
seaworthy power plants based on SGT -800 
technology and on the SGT -8000H series, each 
addressing specific market needs. When 
modifying the land -based equipment, the 
characteristic requirements of floating dev ices , 
primarily motion (“roll and pitch”), acceleration, 
and deflection , were accommodated  in the design 
to make the equipment seaworthy.  
  4 SeaFloat power plants:  
Optimization of proven technology  
SGT-800  
Development of remote areas  
SeaFloat applications based on the SGT -800 are the 
front -runners in developin g remote coastal areas. 
A reliable supply of electrical energy strengthens the 
economy and opens the door to new investments. 
Eventually it improves the social and economic cir-
cumstances of local residents. With solutions available 
from 150 MW in a SCC -800  2x1 configuration to 450 
MW in a SCC 800 4x+1 configuration, a wide range of 
power demands can be addressed.  
 
The SGT -800 gas turbine provides:  
 
• Plug -and-play concept with high degree  
of automation  
• Modularized application for high degree of  
standardizati on and flexible installation  
• Flexible power plant solution with high  
efficiency at plant part load  

White paper | SeaFloat | September 2021  
 © 2021  Siemens Energy  Page  8   
SGT-8000H  
The high performer of large gas turbines  
Even the heavy -duty gas turbine – Siemens  Energy ’s 
high -end SGT -8000H – has been enhanced for SeaFloat 
application. It is available in SCC -8000H 2x1 and SCC -
8000H 1x1 combined cycle configurations and deliv-
ers up to 1,330 MW with a plant efficiency higher than 
61 percent. This highly efficient and reliabl e large -
scale power plant is primarily intended to replace 
older plants like nuclear power plants and coal -fired 
power plants.  
 
The SCC -8000H SeaFloat power plant consists of a 
gas-turbine generator package and a single -lift pack-
age for the steam -turbine g enerator package with con-
denser. Within the HRSG’s steel structure, flexible ele-
ments absorb deflections while a compensator decou-
ples the gas turbine from the HRSG.  

White paper | SeaFloat | September 2021  
 © 2021  Siemens Energy  Page  9 Mobility and flexibility are becoming more and more im-
portant in tod ay’s world. The prospects for SeaFloat power 
plants based on state -of-the-art combined cycle technology 
are diverse and promise wealth and development in many ar-
eas. Because it is equipped with the latest highly efficient 
combined cycle technology, SeaFloa t can also play an im-
portant role in replacing outdated technology and therefore 
can support the achievement of national and global climate 
goals (like the Paris Climate Agreement).  
 
SeaFloat power plants are more competitive than compara-
ble power plants w ith reciprocating engines, and depending 
on the project requirements, they  are also more cost -efficient 
than traditional land -based power plants.SeaFloat applications currently use but are not limited to ma-
chines in the SGT -800 and SGT -8000H series.  
 
Siem ens Energy is looking forward to supplying equipment 
for floating power plants – and is also seeking partners to re-
alize extended, forward -looking applications like floating 
storage regasification and power units (FSRP), where the 
power plant is mounted on  an FSRU or combined with float-
ing desalination units. Our vision is to provide access to 
clean water and energy to everyone.  
  5 Conclusion/ Outlook  

White paper | SeaFloat | September 2021  
 © 2021  Siemens Energy  Page  10 Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or perfor-
mance features which may not always specifically reflect 
those described, or which may undergo modification in the 
course of further devel opment of the products. The re-
quested performance features are binding only when they 
are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product names 
of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies  
whose use by third parties for their own purposes could vio-
late the rights of the owners.  
 6 Disclaimer  
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Article No. PGSO -T10001 -00-7600  
For more information, please visit our website:  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/ seafloat  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.    
   