#1 Corrosion Monitoring Application  
for Oil, Gas, and Petrochemical Industries
PS Asset Integrity Manager is an industry leading software 
for safety critical equipment, corrosion monitoring, fixed 
interval and risk-based inspection planning and scheduling, 
and remaining life calculation. PS Asset Integrity Manager 
incorporates recent advances in technology for optimizing 
inspection time and costs through real time analysis and 
bidirectional transfer of data with data loggers, spreadsheets, 
2D & 3D Computer Aided Design (CAD) software, and ERP 
systems.
Asset integrity management is important to the operation 
of process facilities. PS Asset Integrity Manager combines 
risk-based inspection with an inspection data management 
system (IDMS), which is an effective way to manage the 
inspection and reliability program of the process plant. This 
results in the reduction of risk from loss of containment and 
greater potential for profitability through increased asset 
availability. Implementing PS Asset Integrity Manager creates 
a simpler and quicker inspection and condition monitoring 
method bringing immediate and invaluable benefits to the 
process plant and organization.
PS Asset Integrity Manager is enhanced using Siemens Energy 
product development methodology which includes secure 
design practices and quality assurance processes.Our Expertise
Backed by over 30 years of Asset Integrity 
Management technology and services 
expertise, PS Asset Integrity Manager is the 
solution of choice for efficient and effective 
management of critical equipment.
•  Our legacy : recognized as the leading 
solution provider for inspection data management, with 
more than 1,000 users and 100 installations worldwide.
•  Our people : API and ASME industry contributing members 
and subject matter experts in mechanical integrity coupled 
with the product development and software delivery 
team, provide a software program incorporating industry 
standards and best practices along with value added 
services.
•  Proven methodologies : Siemens Energy can help define 
asset integrity management philosophies, IDMS process, 
Risk-Based Inspection (RBI) programs and implement best 
practices within your organization.
siemens-energy.comPS Asset  
Integrity  
Manager

Published by
Siemens Energy  
Electrification, Automation, Digitalization (EAD)  
Process & Safety Consulting  
USA Headquarters
1200 W Sam Houston Pkwy North  
Houston, TX 77043, USA
Asia Pacific: Singapore  
Canada  
Europe: Belgium and Romania  
Middle East: KSA and UAE
info.ogconsulting.energy@siemens-energy.com
Siemens Energy Customer Software Support Portal
cep.siemens-energy.com
PS Asset Integrity Manager is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH & Co. KG or its affiliates 
registered in one or more countries.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those 
described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed 
upon in the concluded contract .
© 2024 Siemens EnergyOur Value, Our Customer
•  PS Asset Integrity Manager SaaS : Enables customers 
quick and secure scale usage across their enterprise and 
provides faster access to software enhancements. Cloud 
delivery may increase the return on investment for PS Asset 
Integrity Manager and associated integrity management 
services through productivity gains and optimized total 
cost of ownership.
•  Inspection Data & Mobility : PS Asset Integrity Manager 
provides a single repository of historical data and 
documentation for the life of the equipment, including 
UT/RT thickness measurements and results of all API 
inspections.
  By using the data logger and ERP systems interface 
module, data can be efficiently captured and transferred 
bi-directionally to PS Asset Integrity Manager. This data 
can also be accessed in the plant using PS Asset Integrity 
Manager installed on a surface pro tablet with an 
intrinsically safe case.
•  Remaining life prediction : PS Asset Integrity Manager 
provides visibility on past due inspections, equipment with 
high corrosion rates or short remaining life. The software 
also analyzes thickness data to predict corrosion rates, 
maximum allowable operating pressures, and remaining 
life. Inspections can be accordingly planned based on fixed 
intervals, equipment condition, or risk level.
Core Capabilities
•  PS Asset Integrity Manager RBI Module  for risk-based 
inspection in accordance with industry best practices and 
API Recommended Practice (RP) 580 and API RP 581.
•  PS Asset Integrity Manager IOW  Module for integrity 
operating windows management in accordance with API 
RP 584.
•  Corrosion monitoring  stores equipment, component, and 
condition monitoring location (CML) design information.
•  Inspection and testing scheduling  allow users to 
schedule assets’ inspection and testing activities.•  Inspection Planning  allows users to create inspection 
plans, including checklists, and build inspection packages 
for efficient activities execution.
•  Category-based inspection  for relief valves balances the 
frequency and acceptable risk depending on the testing 
and inspection results.
•  ERP connectivity  (e.g., SAP, Maximo, and other CMMS) 
allow scheduled activities to be sent electronically, 
synchronizing equipment information between PS Asset 
Integrity Manager and SAP or any ERP asset module.
•  AutoCAD or MicroStation Dynamic Drawings  link 
displays CML data with the current information from PS 
Asset Integrity Manager.
•  Minimum Thickness (T-min) & Maximum Allowable 
Operating Pressure (MAOP) calculator : Calculates 
minimum allowable wall thickness for all pressure 
components and geometry types based on pressure. The 
MAOP calculations determine the pressure for a known 
thickness. All calculations are performed per applicable 
ASME, ANSI, API, and BS/DIN EN design codes.
•  Localized corrosion on piping : Determines the effects of 
localized corrosion on piping to enable preventive cost-
effective repairs. Uses ASME B31G logic to calculate MAOP.
•  ASME Flange Rating : Calculates rating at design 
temperature per ASME B16.5.
•  Standard, Color Graphic, and MAOP Analysis Reporting  
to generate inspection scheduling and planning activities 
for repair, re-rate or replace decision.
•  Language Options  available for English, French, German, 
Portuguese, and Spanish.
•  Notification System  allows for automated email 
notifications to alert a defined distribution list with custom 
reporting KPIs.
•  Flexible licensing models  tailored to meet customer 
requirements including modularized licensing, user types, 
deployment options, and license terms.
•  Data security & integrity  allows for role-based user 
management of qualification checks, and screen locks 
to prevent multiple user edits to the same equipment 
information.
•  Electronic audit trail  enables users to audit changes that 
affect corrosion rates or inspection planning while tracking 
what, when, and who made the change.
•  Thickness surveys  allow manual entry of thickness 
measurements or automatically transfer readings from 
various data loggers, e.g., DMS Go/Go+, DMS 2, DMS as 
well as Olympus MG2-DL, 36DL, 37DL, 38DL PLUS®.
•  Analytical settings  provide multiple ways for your plant to 
analyze data all on one screen.