siemens-energy.com
Reducing Operational  
Uncertainty
Using Asset Integrity Manager to achieve  
cost saving, safety improvement,  
and productivity
White Paper 
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy
Table of contents
Introduction to Asset Integrity Management
Risk-based approach to Asset Integrity Management
Managing Risk by Reducing Operational uncertainty
Achieving Lowest Life Cycle Cost with AIM
Digitalizing Asset Integrity Management
Siemens Energy Asset Integrity Management software, PSAIM
ReferencesPage 3
Page 3
Page 4
Page 4
Page 5
Page 5
Page 6White Paper  l Reducing Operational Uncertainty
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 2
Introduction to Asset Integrity Management
Managing assets, in any industry, optimally has become crucial 
for organizations to stay competitive in today’s global market. 
Industries are on the edge of a new trend in asset efficiency 
improvement, with the current pressures in realizing optimal 
value from their assets. The challenge for companies is the 
necessity of maintaining, and often increasing operational 
effectiveness, revenue, and customer satisfaction, while at the 
same time reducing capital, operating, and support costs.
Many old plants‘ assets are at risk of failure from age-related 
damage mechanisms requiring mitigation actions. These 
assets cannot be replaced and need to have their useful life 
extended. Therefore, the common challenge is to maintain 
production capability in a cost-effective way while preserving 
the integrity of those assets. Asset Integrity is the ability of an 
asset to perform its required function effectively and efficiently 
whilst protecting health, safety and the environment [1]. Asset 
Integrity Management (AIM) is the means of ensuring that the 
people, systems, processes and resources that deliver integrity 
are in place, in use and will perform when required over the 
whole lifecycle of the asset.
An effective AIM program provides assurance that a facility’s 
equipment and assets are designed, fabricated, procured, 
installed and maintained in a manner appropriate for its 
intended application, throughout the life of the operation 
[2]. AIM will provide the foundation for Asset Performance 
Management (APM) to maximize business performance,  
Figure 1.As a risk management program, AIM focuses on the core 
elements of safety, environmental protection, reliability, 
regulatory compliance and data management [4].
Risk-based approach to Asset Integrity Management
Decisions within AIM regarding monitoring/inspection, repair, 
maintenance and replacement have traditionally been based 
on a range of practices including the prescriptive time-based 
approach, rule-based approach, condition-based approach 
or reactive maintenance [5]. Risk-based decision supporting 
tools are being recently developed in response to industry’s 
need for optimum management of assets. Schematics of 
risk reduction using risk-based tools compared to traditional 
programs is illustrated in Figure 2. These tools provide asset 
owners with a basis for making decisions on often complex 
major investment issues. Whilst there will remain the need for 
traditional approaches to AIM, more advanced approaches are 
required to reflect the complexity of different assets, constraints 
operational conditions, and to operate at an optimal level 
within the competitive pressures faced by asset managers.
Asset Performance  
Asset ability to perform its funtion  
while maximizing business 
Asset Integrity  
Ability of asset to perform  
itsfunction while safeguarding  
life and environment
Process Safety  
Management of  
major accidents with  
energy release
Occupational Safety  
Management of  
Incidents affecting  
individuals
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 3White Paper  l Reducing Operational Uncertainty
Figure 1 – Asset Integrity Management position in conjunction to safety and 
operational performance – Source: SPE [3]Figure 2 – Management of risk using risk-based approaches towards inspection 
and maintenance – Source: API 580 [6]
Risk-based approaches, as opposed to many other approaches, 
give operators flexibility in the management of their assets 
as a result of undertaking actions not on a fixed schedule or 
rule, but on some identified risk-based criteria to prioritize 
efforts. Risk-based inspection has been a major step forward in 
improving asset integrity and optimizing costs of inspection by 
focusing efforts on high risk systems and assets and preventing 
lost profit due to failures. The uptake of risk-based practices 
is growing as increased operational experience and a greater 
understanding of asset failures (and its consequences) lead 
asset owners to adopt a more informed approach to planning, 
targeting resources to reduce risk to as low as reasonably 
practicable (ALARP) [7].
Managing Risk by Reducing Operational uncertainty
One objective of AIM is to direct the management decision-
making process of prioritizing resources to manage risk. Asset 
monitoring influences the uncertainty of the risk associated 
with equipment primarily by improving knowledge of the 
deterioration state and predictability of the probability of 
failure (PoF). Utilization of risk-based approach to AIM, 
provides a vehicle for continuously improving the inspection 
and maintenance of facilities and systematically reducing the 
risk, but secondary achievements will be life extension while 
reduction in OPEX and CAPEX are considered as long-term 
impact of this program [8]. Benefits of implementing such an 
effective AIM program is summarized in Figure 3.
Achieving Lowest Life Cycle Cost with AIM
Reduction of risks to a lower level may not always be 
practical due to technology and cost constraints. An ALARP 
approach to risk management or other quantitative risk 
management approach may be necessary for such assets (or 
subcomponents). This approach uses a statistical approach to 
establish the optimum timing and extent of capital/operational 
expenditures when it comes to inspection/maintenance 
activities [7]. A risk analysis method of life cycle performance 
provides promising approach for economic justification of 
inspection, repair, rehabilitation and replacement decisions. 
The most practical and cost-effective risk mitigation strategy 
can then be developed for each asset (or its subcomponent). 
Inspection costs can be more effectively managed with the use 
of the risk-based plans to those areas or systems identified as a 
higher risk or targeted based on the strategy selected.At the same time, any AIM planning should include cost-
effective actions along with projected risk mitigation.  Risk-
driven plans also identify assets that do not require monitoring 
or some other form of mitigation because of the acceptable 
level of risk associated with the asset’s current operational 
constraints. In this way, in addition to risk reductions and 
process safety improvements, risk-driven plans may result in 
cost reductions.
Risk management plans 
should be adjusted 
appropriately to offer 
the added advantage 
of identifying gaps or 
shortcomings in the 
effectiveness of commercially available 
inspection technologies and applications. 
In cases where technology cannot 
adequately and/or cost-effectively 
mitigate risk, other risk mitigation 
approaches can be implemented.
An effective risk-based program identifies and measures the 
relative uncertainties associated with ascertaining the condition 
of the equipment. In this approach, risk is utilized to identify 
and prioritize when those uncertainties must be reduced, 
typically by improved knowledge though additional data. This 
is achieved by improved knowledge about the degradation 
rates and condition of equipment via inspection and other 
monitoring methods [9]. 
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 4White Paper  l Reducing Operational Uncertainty
Figure 3 – Benefits of an effective AIM plan
Consequently, this same strategy allows consideration for 
reduction of inspection activities in those areas that have 
a lower risk or where the inspection activity may have little 
or no effect on the associated risks. Another opportunity 
for managing inspection costs is by identifying items in the 
inspection plan that can be inspected non-intrusively on-
stream. Non-intrusive inspection may contribute to increased 
uptime of the unit (increase run length between outages). 
Figure 4 below compares how both time-based and risk-based 
approach affect asset availability across a timeline.
Digitalizing Asset Integrity Management
The risk-based management approach 
to AIM is based on a mathematical and 
statistical models using all asset data 
(from design, inspection, maintenance 
and operation). Using these swathes of 
data intelligently in conjunction with 
an AIM solution software allows tuning 
maintenance and inspection activity in response to changing 
reliability and commercial attributes of the asset or facility, 
minimize operational costs, reduce facility downtime and 
continuously demonstrate lowest total cost of ownership 
[11]. Asset owners need a common information system 
for AIM based on a modern Inspection Data Management 
System (IDMS). The IDMS and risk-based programs must be 
implemented with a clear, comprehensive plan. This will 
enable process expertise to align software elements with the 
organization’s work processes. Additional efficiencies can 
be gained by integrating the IDMS with the organization’s 
Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) and 
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP). Integrated applications 
reduce redundant data management efforts, improve 
workflows and information sharing, and enable visibility to 
insights generated by the IDMS system. These applications 
support risk-based and predictive decision-making practices to 
reduce operational uncertainty to achieve cost saving, safety 
improvement and productivity.Siemens Energy PS Asset Integrity Management software
PS Asset Integrity Manager software, 
from Process & Safety Consulting, is 
an industry leading software for safety 
critical equipment, corrosion monitoring, 
fixed interval and risk-based inspection 
and mitigation planning. PS Asset 
Integrity Manager incorporates recent 
advances in technology, as described 
above, for optimizing inspection time and cost through real 
time analysis and bidirectional transfer of data with data 
loggers, spreadsheets, 2D & 3D MicroStation drawing or 
computer aided design software, CMMs and ERP systems. PS 
Asset Integrity Manager, backed by over 30 years of technology 
expertise, is now recognized as the leading solution provider for 
inspection data management and risk-based assessment with 
more than 1000 users and 100 installations worldwide.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 5White Paper  l Reducing Operational Uncertainty
Figure 4 Example of comparison between time-based and risk-based approaches – 
Source: Inspectioneering, ARC and OEA [10, 11 and 12]
References
[1]  HSE Publication (2006), Plant ageing: Management of 
equipment containing hazardous fluids or pressure.
[2]  Asset management, BS ISO 55000:2014, BS ISO 
55001:2014 and BS ISO 55002:2014.
[3]  Annamaria Petrone, A step change in traditional Risk 
Assessment Techniques for Process Safety and Asset 
Integrity Management, Society of Petroleum Engineers, 
Distinguished Lecturer Program, 2014.
[4]  HSE Publications (2014), Key Programme 4 (KP4) Ageing 
and life extension programme, Health and Safety 
Executive’s Energy Division, London, UK.
[5]  HSE Publication (2006), Plant ageing: Management of 
equipment containing hazardous fluids or pressure
[6]  API Publication (2016), Risk-Based Inspection, API 
Recommended Practice 580, American Petroleum 
Institute, Washington, DC.
[7]  U. R. Bharadwaj, V. V. Silberschmidt, J. B. Wintle, A risk-
based approach to asset integrity management; Journal of 
Quality in Maintenance Engineering · October 2012 .
[8]  HSE Publications (2014), Key Programme 4 (KP4) Ageing 
and life extension programme, Health and Safety 
Executive’s Energy Division, London, UK.
[9]  API Publication 581 (2016), Risk-Based Inspection, Base 
Resource Document, American Petroleum Institute, 
Washington, DC.
[10]  C. Espinoza, S. Mahajanam, Four realized benefits of a 
transition from a time-based to a risk-based inspection 
approach, Inspectioneering Journal, Vol. 24, Issue 2, April 
2018.
[11]  Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) Market Size Forecast 
Trends Strategies, ARC Advisory Group, 2020.
[12]  D. Anderson, Reducing the Cost of Preventative 
Maintenace, Oniqua Enterprise Analytics Accessed, April 
2020. 
© 2024 Siemens Energy Energy Page 6White Paper  l Reducing Operational Uncertainty
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Industrial Applications  
Freyeslebenstraße 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Industrial Applications  
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826USA  
USA
Article No.   
© Siemens Energy, 2024
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
PS Asset Integrity Manager is a trademark of Siemens Energy GmbH & Co. KG or its 
affiliates registered in one or more countries.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only 
contains general descriptions and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the 
course of further development of the products. The requested performance 
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded 
contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third 
parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.