Siemens Energy is a world leader in the manufacture of industrial gas turbines, 
for power generation and mechanical drive applications. As part of the 
comprehensive portfolio of Customer Service activities, Siemens can offer a Service 
Exchange program for our current and some selected mature gas turbine ranges.Answers for Energy
www.siemens.com/energyService Exchange
For TB, SGT-100, SGT-200, SGT-300 & SGT-400 Industrial Gas Turbines 
What do we offer?
When you are up against tight 
production schedules and have to get the optimum performance from your assets, the last thing you need is a long outage period while your gas turbine is undergoing annual maintenance. Let us 
help reduce that pressure and minimize 
on-site delays, by providing you with a factory built service exchange core or major sub-assembly. 
Our Service Exchange units are built to 
current Siemens design standards, incorporating latest technical developments and fully tested to produce power within 5% of the turbine’s original rated output. The exchange unit is configured to match 
your installation, before being tested 
and dispatched, backed up with a standard Siemens’ 12 month factory limited warranty.
We hold a large multi-engine exchange 
fleet which, providing we have been given sufficient advance notice, can be made ready for rapid dispatch following site configuration and testing.  We can provide:
 Exchange options to help minimise operational downtime 
 Unrivalled experience & expertise in your product
 Unique access to the latest Siemens’ technology 
 Total commitment to supporting our products. 
 Unit configuration tailored to your installation 
Customer benefits can include:
 Option of new, repaired or refurbished components available for turbine build
 Extensive inventory of support spares
 Reduced risk of unavailability of spare parts as the turbines mature
 New replacement parts for mature engines, including pressure casings 
 All parts and services backed by Siemens limited warranties
 Access to and application of the latest Siemens’ technologies and product developments
 Global network of Siemens approved service support centers

 www.siemens.com/energyPublished by and copyright © 2013:
Siemens AG
Energy Sector
Freyeslebenstrasse 191058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy, Inc.
4400 Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826-2399, USAFor more information, please contact  
our Customer Support Center.
Phone: +49 180 524 70 00  
Fax: +49 180 524 24 71  
(Charges depending on provider)
E-mail: support.energy@siemens.comEnergy Service DivisionLCN 2013 - F33.24 LN
Printed on elementary chlorine-free 
bleached paper.All rights reserved. Trademarks mentioned in 
this document are the property of Siemens AG, its affiliates, or their respective owners.
Subject to change without prior notice. 
The information in this document contains general descriptions of the technical options available, which may not apply in all cases. The required technical options should 
therefore be specified in the contract.