Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Berlin , September  15, 2023  
250,000 tons less CO 2 thanks to renewable  
hydrogen: Siemens Energy delivers 
electrolyzers to Normandy  
Siemens Energy is supplying 12 electrolyzers with a total capacity of 200 megawatts to Normandy, 
France. Air Liquide, a world leader in gases, technologies and services for Industry and Health, will 
operate  them in its Normand'Hy project. Starting in 202 6, Air Liquide ’s plant in the Port -Jérôme 
industrial zone will produce 28,000 tons of renewable  hydrogen annually  for industry and the 
mobility sector . With this amount, a hydrogen -fueled road truck could make it 10,000 times around 
the world.   
 
"The sustainable decarbonization of industry is unthinkable without green hydrogen. That is why 
projects like  this are so important . But they  can only be a starting point for a sustainable 
transformation of the industrial landscape . Other large -scale proje cts must follow  quickly. For the 
development of a European hydrogen economy to succeed, we need reliable support from 
policymakers and simplified procedures for funding and approving such projects" , says Anne -Laure 
de Chammard, member of the Executive Boar d of Siemens Energy.  
 
By using electrolyzers from Siemens Energy, Air Liquide  will contribute to the decarbonization of 
the Normandy industrial basin and mobility  by offering low carbon  hydrogen. As  a result, up to 
250,000  tons of CO 2 can be saved each ye ar. Ordinarily, 25 million trees would be needed to bind 
this amount of carbon dioxide.  
 
The electrolyzers supplied by Siemens Energy are based on proton exchange membrane technology 
(PEM electrolysis), which is highly compatible to intermittent renewable  energ y supply  thanks to its  
short ramp -up time and dynamic controllability,  and it is very well suited for the rapid ramp -up of 
the hydrogen industry due to its high energy density and small footprint and material requirements.  
 
 
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
The Normand'Hy project will be one of the first to be supplied from Siemens Energy's new 
electrolyzer production facility in Berlin  in the framework of the joint venture between Air Liquide 
and Siemens Energy. Industrial  series production of stacks  – the heart  of the PEM electrolyzers  – 
will start in November  this year . By 2025, production is expected to ramp up to at least three 
gigawatts per year, supplying hydrogen projects around the world.  
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Claudia Nehring  
Phone:   +49 162 166 8424  
E-mail: claudia.nehring@siemens -energy.com   
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and 
partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. Wi th its portfolio of 
products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation 
and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and 
steam  turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. A majority stake in 
the wind power subsidiary Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for 
renewable energies. An estima ted one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from 
Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 9 3,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated 
revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 