Benson® test rig
siemens-energy.com/powergeneration
The Benson test rig is installed in an accredited laboratory in 
Erlangen, Germany. In operation since 1975, its main purpose is to 
investigate topics associated with the operation and further devel-
opment of Benson steam generators and heat recovery steam 
generators. Intensive research and development is especially being conducted in the field of heat transfer, pressure drop and flow 
stability of two phase flows in evaporator tubes. This has led to the 
establishment of the world’s largest database on heat transfer and 
pressure drop in evaporator tubes. Moreover, the test results help 
developing and validating the Benson design software.Tried, tested and trusted
Ministry of Electricity 
and Energy, Egypt
• Equipment of three 
combined cycle power 
plants
• 24 vertical triple-  
pressure Benson 
heat-recovery steam 
generators
• Part of the megaproject 
designed to increase 
electricity generation in 
Egypt by 50 percent
• Highly efficient and 
flexible combined cycle 
operation
Page 2 Benson® test rig
Benson test rig
Spray condenserTest section
Trickle 
cooler
Main coolerReduction valveCirculation 
pump
Piston pumpPressurizer
Feedwater tankPreheater Main heater
MMM M
MTechnical data
System pressure 330 bar
Temperature 600° C
Mass flow 4 kg / s
Heat capacity 2,000 kW
The test facility mainly comprises a water supply system, the 
object to be tested, a thermal pressurizer and a cooling system. If 
large mass flows are required for certain investigations, the test 
rig can be operated in recirculation mode. The thermal pressurizer 
is a unique feature of the Benson test rig and keeps the pressure 
in the system extremely stable. This is a necessary precondition 
for reliable steady- state heat transfer measurements in the pres-
sure range close to the critical pressure.
The physical phenomena and theoretical basis for the dynamic 
stability of two-phase flows have been investigated, understood 
and documented in the context of the Benson license. A test 
stand with tubes configured in parallel was installed in the 
Benson laboratory in Erlangen in 2014 for further investigation of 
the phenomenon. This setup enables the reproducible generation 
and observation of dynamic instabilities in vertically configured 
heated tubes with a geometry typical for Benson evaporators 
under laboratory conditions for the first time in the world. The 
tests were evaluated to further validate the programs for dynamic 
stability simulation available at Siemens Energy.
Page 3 Benson® test rig
Benson softwareTypical test parameters:
Pressure 25 ≤ p ≤ 280 bar Heat flux 0 ≤ q ≤ 950 kW / m²
Mass flux 30 ≤ m ≤ 2,500 kg / (sm²) Tube inner diameter 8 ≤ d ≤ 50  mm
Software Application
KRAWAL
HRSGThermodynamic & thermohydraulic analysis
DYNAPLANT Dynamic flow stability
DYNAPLANTHRSG & Fired steam 
generatorBenson-specific control concepts
WATSEF Water / steam separator efficiencySoftware Application
DEFOS
Fired steam  
generatorThermodynamic performance
STADE Pressure drop in single tubes
STADENET Flow distribution in thermohydraulic networks
WATHUN Detailed heat transfer analysis
DYNASTAB Dynamic flow stability
WATHAN Membrane wall strengthDatabase for heat transfer and pressure drop in evaporator tubes
Smo oth
> 307,000Riﬂed
> 285,000
uniform uniform one sid e one sid eTube geometry
HeatingNumbers of mesurements (07 / 2021)
Tube orientationvertical
inclined
horizontal
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Freyeslebenstr. 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/powergeneration
© Siemens Energy, 2021 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USASubject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and / or 
performance features which may not always specifically reflect 
those described, or which may undergo modification in the 
course of further development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are expressly 
agreed upon in the concluded contract.
All product designations trademarks or products of Siemens 
Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use 
by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights 
of the owners.