 
Frei verwendbar  
 Page  1 of 3  Raleigh,  November 25, 2020   
Siemens Energy Commissions First 
Emissions -Free, Clean Air Circuit 
Switcher  
• Blue Clean Air Circuit Switcher e liminates Green House G as (GHG)  
emissions , thus contributing positively to the decarbonization of 
energy  
• Advanced current interrupting capability prolongs the lifespan of the 
technology over  5 times longer than conventional SF6 circuit switchers , 
resulting in 40% lower lifecycle cost  
• System is virtually maintenance free with h igher reliability in extreme  
cold conditions   
 
Siemens Energy  and Traverse City Light and Power (TCL &P) have installed  
the first circuit switcher that utilizes clean dry  air in place of traditional 
sulfur hexafluoride (SF 6) insulating gas.  
 
Built at the Siemens Energy plant in Richland, Mississippi, and 
commissioned at TCL &P in October 2020, the Blue Clean Air 72.5 kV 
CPV2V Circuit Switcher is the first in the U.S. to provide reliable short -
circuit interruption without emitting  harmful gases into the atmosphere.  
By contrast,  SF6, the insulating gas typically used in  gas insulated 
equipment (GIE) has a global warming po tential of 23,500 x that of C O2.   
 
Siemens Energy is focused on creating environmentally friendly products 
like this carbon neutral technology that are sustainable and help drive 
the energy transition.  The  Blue line of Clean Air vacuum technology  for 
Circuit Breakers and Switchers  is capable of reliable short -circuit 
interruption at voltage levels above 69 kV with no Global Warning 
Potential (GWP) emissions over the lifetime of the equipment.  SF6 Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Stacia Licona  
281-721-3402  
stacia.licona@siemens -
energy.com  
Press release  
Frei verwendbar  Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  2 of 3   
TCL&P is a community -owned municipal utility serving over 12,700 
customers in Traverse City, Michigan , as well as parts of East Bay, 
Elmwood, Garfield and Peninsula townships . It has adopted renewable 
generation sourcing goals of 40% by 2020, and 100% by 2040.  Known 
for its focus on environmental stewardshi p, TCL&P has implemented 
many programs and standards to reduce its carbon footprint.  Tony 
Chartrand, system engineer at TCL &P, says the utility chose to upgrade to 
the Blue Clean Air  technology to “Provide more reliability to our 
customers  and save mainten ance costs along with being more 
environmentally friendly .” 
 
The Blue Clean Air Circuit Switcher is designed to reliably operate in 
conditions as low as -50° C, making it ideal for cold weather climates by 
eliminating the need for external heaters.  The de sign and reliability of 
the components make it maintenance free over the lifetime of the circuit 
switcher.  
 
Additionally, the circuit switcher is easily filled with clean dry air  as 
needed, eliminating the need for costly fluorinated  gas storage  and use 
of complex gas carts to handle SF 6 gas. Replacing an existing circuit 
switcher with the Blue Clean Air model is simple  because it shares a 
similar footprint.  Clean air vacuum technology offers estimated life cycle 
cost advantages up to 40% over SF 6 circuit switchers.  
 
“By investing in reliable and ecologically responsible products, like our 
Blue Clean Air technologies, our customers increase their production cost 
competitiveness while also helping to pr otect  the environment,” says 
Wade Lauer, senior  vice president, Transmission Products and Systems 
North America  for Siemens Energy.  
  
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is 
available at www.siemens -energy.com/pre ss  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Press release  
Frei verwendbar  Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  3 of 3  Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The 
company works with its cu stomers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus 
supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, 
solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – 
from power generation an d transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional 
and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants 
operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent 
of the portfolio has alr eady been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader 
for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is 
based on technologies  from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 91,000 people 
worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €29 billion in 
fiscal year 2019. www.siemens -energy.com . 