 
Fehler! Unbekannter Name für Dokument -Eigenschaft.  
 Page  1 of 2  Munich, December 14, 2020   
 
India’s first fleet of electric boats to 
achieve zero emissions with Siemens 
Energy’s technologies  
• Electric propulsion drive train and automation technologies will help 
provide safe, cost -effective, reliable vessel operation  
• Emissions -free energy storage systems provide continuous power 
while maximizing performance  
• Innovative technologies will help establish an integrated mobility 
system for the people, goods, and services in Kochi  
 
India’s first greenfield and largest shipbuilding yard, Cochin Shipyard Ltd. , has 
selected Siemens Energy t o provide advanced marine solutions for the 
country’s first fleet of 23 boats to be equipped with electric propulsion drive  
trains with energy storage integration (batteries)  and vessel automation 
technologies.   
 
Cochin Shipyard Ltd. is building the fleet  to strengthen Kochi Metro Rail Ltd.’s 
(KMRL) infrastructure and its connectivity to islands around Kochi / Ernakulam.  
 
The combination of the electric propulsion drive train, energy storage , and 
automation systems will significantly reduce fuel consumpti on, increase 
maneuverability, and provide reliable, uninterrupted  power supply  while 
ensur ing safe, cost -effective operation of the vessels.   Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Janet Ofano  
Phone: +1 803 -389-6753  
E-mail:  
Janet.Ofano@siemens.com  
 
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed b y Siemens AG.  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Page  2 of 2   
“The project showcases our commitment towards decarbonization and 
environment sustainability,” said Thorbjoern Fo rs, Executive Vice President f or 
Siemens Energy Industrial Applications . “Furthermore, the low emission 
footprint of the vessel s makes it an ideal benchmark for other customers 
looking to use inland waterways to transport goods and passengers.”  
 
This press release and a press picture is available at https://bit.ly/33W7NGQ   
 
Follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works 
with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition 
to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens 
Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from po wer generation and transmission to 
storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and 
steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and 
transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority 
stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a 
global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated 
worldwide is base d on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 
90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 
billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.co m. 
 