Reprinted from March 2022 60 HYDROCARBO N 
ENGINEERING

Reprinted from March 2022 61 HYDROCARBO N 
ENGINEERING
Several years ago, while hosting a cybersecurity panel 
discussion as part of an industry automation 
conference, a colleague began the session with a 
telling exercise that revealed how vulnerable 
unprotected industrial control systems (ICSs) can be. He 
opened a port on a web server installed on his laptop that 
was connected to the conference hotel’s internet, and then 
started the panel discussion. One hour later, after the Q&A, 
he checked the web server’s firewall log and counted 
35 different attempts to penetrate it.
Today, such an exercise would likely have found many 
more times that number of attack attempts in an hour. In 
fact, in summer 2021, cybersecurity researchers set up a 
honeypot experiment with 320 nodes globally. It consisted 
of purposely misconfigured cloud services – remote desktop 
protocols (RDP) and secure shell (SSH) protocols among 
them – as well as several accounts with weak passwords. The 
researchers found that 80% of the nodes were compromised 
within 24 hours (many within minutes), and all were 
penetrated within a week.1 
Energy: a top target for cyberattacks
Of course, if the world’s energy industry needed an object 
lesson in why cybersecurity matters, it receieved a big one in 
May 2021, as this was when a ransomware attack shut down 
the 5500-mile Colonial Pipeline in the US for six days, 
disrupting fuel supplies throughout the East Coast. The 
collective economic disruption in the region certainly 
dwarfed the US$4.4 million ransom that the pipeline’s owner 
reportedly paid the hackers.2   
This attack dramatically changed risk assessment of the 
energy industry – and cyber professionals’ perceptions of 
that risk. According to a 2021 SANS survey on the state of 
cybersecurity for operational technology (OT) and ICS, the 
energy sector is now seen as the most at-risk industry for 
cyberattacks.3  
The survey’s report echoes Siemens Energy’s experience 
advising and providing OT cybersecurity services to 
companies across the energy industry’s value stream. It 
found that the top challenges facing industrial companies in 
securing their operations are:3 
n Technical integration of legacy and ageing OT 
technology with modern IT systems: 59.4%.
n Insufficient labour resources to implement existing 
security plans: 56.0%.
n IT staff lacking understanding of OT operational 
requirements: 52.2%.
n Traditional IT security technologies that are too complex 
to implement and maintain in an OT environment: 39.6%.Sam Miorelli, Siemens Energy, USA,  
presents a simplified, four-step 
approach to stronger cybersecurity 
in downstream operations.
Reprinted from March 2022HYDROCARBO N 
ENGINEERINGYet, despite these obstacles to plugging vulnerability 
gaps, a common excuse is that budgets to strengthen 
cyber defenses are constrained in an industry that has 
under invested in these protections for decades, or are 
only available if requested in once-annual budget cycles. 
Some firms find themselves at a loss for where to start, 
let alone how to build a budget request to their board or 
senior management to fund better OT cybersecurity. 
Cybersecurity is not rocket science 
Certainly, these challenges can be formidable. However, 
they are not insurmountable, nor are they rocket science 
to solve. The good news is that downstream oil and gas 
companies can adopt the straightforward, four-step 
approach that Siemens Energy’s cybersecurity experts and 
managed services team have successfully used to close 
vulnerability gaps for customers worldwide in recent 
years. 
This approach is used to turn the unknowns and 
uncontrolled risks into a change management project – 
one involving a nexus of technology, people, and 
processes – that any organisation familiar with the 
operational rigours of the oil and gas industry can 
implement successfully. The four steps are:
 nIdentify and design.
 nAcquire.
 nDeploy.
 nOperate and transition.
Because OT cybersecurity requirements differ 
significantly from IT needs, this approach is necessarily 
OT-oriented. OT environments are deterministic, 
requiring minimal latencies so that automation 
commands can be communicated and executed in their 
often millisecond timeframes, which precludes most 
forms of active scanning. If those commands are not 
performed in their specified timeframes – so a valve 
does not open, or a pump does not start – plant 
operations can be disrupted, potentially at significant 
cost to production or even risking environmental, health, 
or safety dangers. 
Other challenges facing OT environments with many 
different ICSs operating in a highly-engineered and 
orchestrated synchronisation, which are typical of 
downstream production plants, include the following:
 nAvoiding or minimising plant disruptions during the 
deployment of security controls.
 nSupporting legacy automation equipment and 
software, given the sunk capital investments and long 
lifespans of such assets.
 nAvoiding violating vendor service agreements while 
deploying third-party security software.
 nTesting security controls thoroughly to avoid 
compatibility issues. 
 nPrioritising worker and plant safety, environmental 
compliance, and asset availability.
This article will now take a closer look at each of the 
four steps in the recommended approach.Step one – identify and design
This phase is critical. It is where the need to mitigate or 
remediate what could be a currently unknown or 
unquantified cybersecurity risk must be identified and 
prioritised to define the right amount of investment and the 
timing of that investment. As with any risk management 
exercise, some are more critical than others, and 
prioritisation guides a logical cybersecurity journey.  
Business leaders can often be caught unprepared during 
the later stages of operating an OT security program due to 
a lack of proper upfront planning and designing. Given the 
volume and relevance of this investment – vs a 
compliance-driven, minimum security investment approach 
– Siemens Energy recommends a joint discovery process that 
brings its experts and their OT and IT teams together. 
Siemens Energy starts by identifying the company’s strategic 
security goals. This avoids ‘one-size-fits-all’ plans and helps 
to define each plant’s proper cybersecurity journey. The 
following are examples of tasks performed in this phase:
 nConducting a detailed review of what is motivating the 
cybersecurity investment (e.g. audit results, past 
incidents, risk assessment results). 
 nUnderstanding existing industrial automation assets and 
security safeguards, especially off-the-shelf security 
tools, and their ages and current operating conditions. 
 nIdentifying constraints such as lack of vendor support 
and compatibility for third-party security tools.
 nAnalysing in detail the requirements for each currently 
operating security control and its minimum technology 
features available for use in an upgraded security 
framework.
 nCreating a detailed logical and physical network design 
that considers the impact of the target security 
architecture and new services to be included.
 nAligning with the company’s enterprise IT security 
strategy and interfaces to avoid overlaps and allow for 
an optimal detection and response strategy going 
forward.
 nCreating a new security management system governance 
framework – policies, procedures, and standards – 
aligned with the company’s future state vision with 
accommodations for the particular requirements for 
every plant.
 nDeveloping a detailed project plan, incorporating the 
governance framework, and with clearly written goals, 
strategies, objectives, tactics, metrics, timelines, 
responsibilities, and budgets. All stakeholders need to 
participate in its development, and executive 
management must sign off on it.
Step two – acquire
This step involves selecting the right providers to meet the 
defined quality, budget, and time constraints identified in 
step one. It can be a big challenge for companies operating 
multiple downstream production facilities, especially if 
those plants are located in different regions of the world. 
This is where a partner with global reach and a 
vendor-agnostic approach helps. While Siemens Energy has 
a rich legacy in original equipment manufacturer (OEM) 
Reprinted from March 2022HYDROCARBO N 
ENGINEERINGindustrial controls, its cybersecurity work is aggressively 
vendor-agnostic both in securing control systems and the 
tools used to provide that security. In addition, 
vendor-agnostic solution integrators have the advantage of 
maintaining many relationships across the industry, which 
lets them offer the most appropriate tools even as things 
change at extraordinary speed. Typically, this step will 
require:
 nDrafting detailed request for proposals (RFPs) and 
coordinating subcontractor and vendor 
communications.
 nQualifying, selecting and overseeing a plan’s execution 
with the chosen third-party providers.
 nMonitoring the shipping and receipt of hardware and 
software while filling in any gaps or inconsistencies in 
their order fulfillment.
 nDetailed coordination with plant operators during 
planned plant maintenance and outages when new 
security system safeguards will be installed and 
commissioned, and when new network segmentations 
are done.
 nPlanning and documenting the deployment of new 
cybersecurity measures, including personnel training, 
altered management communications, adoption 
monitoring, and safety hazard assessments where 
applicable.
Step three – deploy
This phase involves installing and commissioning the 
designed security controls for each cybersecurity risk 
mitigation. It should include detailed configuration design 
and testing either in a laboratory, factory acceptance 
testing (FAT), or site acceptance testing (SAT). The idea is to 
identify and resolve compatibility issues as much as 
possible before onsite installation and commissioning 
occur. This helps to reduce risk during a planned outage 
and ensure that the plant can resume operations within the 
allotted timeframe. 
Typically, Siemens Energy’s engineers are onsite to 
perform integration testing and refine the rollout plans 
based on the outcome of the laboratory/FAT tests. To 
further minimise execution time during the deployment, 
migrations to the new security system will be planned and 
grouped together based on similarity and the ability to execute within the outage schedule 
afforded by the customer’s ongoing 
operations. This keeps onsite 
changes and the potential for 
adverse impacts to a minimum. 
Notably, the proper backup will 
be executed in collaboration with 
the customer’s OT/IT teams before 
significant changes, with detailed 
rollback plans drafted and ready for 
use in each case. The following 
summarises these and other tasks to 
be performed:
n   Planning and designing system 
and network configuration for 
every cybersecurity safeguard 
to be deployed (e.g. design of target hardening 
policies).
n   Thorough testing with representative equipment with 
target system configurations.
 nCreating detailed rollout and rollback plans to 
augment and include the overall plan.
 nCoordinating, aligning, planning and monitoring of 
tasks to be performed by third-party participants in 
the new security system’s deployment.
 nConducting pre-rollout site visits and rehearsing the 
execution of rollout tasks.  
 nMonitoring the availability of all assets involved in the 
security system migration (before, during and after 
changes).
 nExecuting other change-management-related practices 
(e.g. change requests, communications, monitoring, 
awareness, etc).
 nUpdating existing documentation or creating new 
documentation as needed (e.g. updated logical and 
physical network diagrams, IP numbering 
standard/procedures) to create a single as-built 
documentation resource for future consultation and 
updating as updates and upgrades are made. 
 nProvisioning a rollout service desk with engineers 
available to address any adverse impacts on operating 
assets affected by the migration to the new security 
system.
Step four – operate and transition
In this phase, the customer’s OT/IT teams (and, if applicable, 
contracted third-party outsourcing providers) will properly 
operate the newly-deployed security system to its maximum 
potential. This phase also provides the training that the 
automation and operations teams will require to learn how to 
operate the plant in the new security environment, which will 
likely include new host-based security agents; prohibited and 
therefore blocked communications that may have been 
previously considered routine, especially with external parties; 
and the operation of new security appliances and tools. This 
will ensure a smooth transition that minimises post-rollout 
service desk requests related to the change. The following 
provides a summary of these and other tasks to be performed:
 nEvaluating operational impacts with the additional security 
tools, processes and procedures.
Figure 1.  Siemens Energy has successfully developed a four-step approach 
to close vulnerability gaps for customers worldwide in recent years (image 
courtesy of Siemens Energy).
Reprinted from March 2022HYDROCARBO N 
ENGINEERING nDesigning the target operations model, as well as its 
workload and workforce requirements, to properly 
sustain the change.
 nRecommending adjustments in the organisational structure, 
roles and responsibilities to fit the defined ‘responsible, 
accountable, consulted and informed’ (RACI) model.
 nDefining target service-level agreements (SLAs) for 
deployed security services.
 nDefining the best sourcing strategy for select services 
across a customer’s different host countries, if applicable.
 nSupporting the selection of qualified managed service 
providers, if needed. 
 nSupporting the transition of service and knowledge 
transfer to the operations provider.
Conclusion
The four steps described herein can help plant operators 
make cost-effective step changes to close cybersecurity gaps 
in their operations. This is true even if they currently have 
little or no knowledge of the topic or find it overwhelming in 
the context of their highly complex plant operations.
In many cases, especially in sovereign-owned national plant 
operations, the local hiring of highly-qualified security talent 
can be difficult because of its scarcity. To prevent this from 
becoming a critical path item in developing and enacting more 
robust cyber safeguards, Siemens Energy usually recommends 
outsourcing to an OT-managed security services provider for 
immediate needs, either as a bridge to self-operations or a 
long-term solution to global cybersecurity staffing shortfalls. As part of step four, Siemens Energy helps its customers 
adopt the ‘ADKAR’ approach in order to achieve the needed 
cultural change. ADKAR – awareness, desire, knowledge, 
ability and reinforcement – are the five changes that need to 
happen for a change to be successful. After all, an 
organisational change can only happen when individuals 
change, and more robust cybersecurity for downstream oil 
and gas operations is undoubtedly worth the effort and 
investment.
Finally, the deployment of a comprehensive, updated 
cybersecurity system with a mature governance framework 
must include a high level of OT/IT collaboration, as well as 
executive management support behind it all – whether the 
system is deployed across a single plant or multiple plants. 
Even then, for it to succeed, operational personnel from 
the front office to the back office and everywhere in 
between need to be aware of the changes, know their 
responsibilities for supporting those changes (e.g. not 
opening unsolicited emails or attachments), and learn what, if 
anything, they might have to do differently in their 
day-to-day jobs. In practice, plant cybersecurity is everyone’s 
responsibility, just like plant safety. 
References
1. CHEN, J., ‘Observing Attacks Against Hundreds of Exposed Services in 
Public Clouds’, Palo Alto Networks, (22 November 2021), https://unit42.
paloaltonetworks.com/exposed-services-public-clouds/ 
2. EATON, C., and VOLZ, D., ‘Colonial Pipeline CEO Tells Why He Paid 
Hackers a $4.4 Million Ransom’, The Wall Street Journal, (19 May 2021).
3. BRISTOW, M., ‘A SANS 2021 Survey: OT/ICS Cybersecurity’, 
SANS Institute, (August 2021), pp. 5 – 7.