World Oil® / JANUARY 2021  39 
Ensuring robust cyber defense  
for endpoint energy assetsDIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONTwo industry-leading service 
providers have partnered 
to deliver a robust, AI-
driven cybersecurity tool for 
operations-critical equipment 
and systems.
 ŝ JARRED CAPELLMAN,  SparkCognition 
and MATT STEWART,  Siemens Energy
Companies across the hydrocarbon 
supply chain recognize the growing threat 
of sophisticated, malicious cyberattacks. 
Many companies continue to struggle to 
defend early-generation and remote oper -
ating assets, such as older compressor sta -
tions, which were engineered well before 
the widespread adoption of digital indus -
trial control systems. As a result, these as -
sets are vulnerable to long-term exposure 
to emerging cyber-risks, without the abil -
ity to be patched easily or updated quickly 
with the latest security defenses.
Siemens Energy and SparkCognition 
have collaborated to develop a new cy -
bersecurity system, known as DeepArmor 
Industrial. The system protects endpoint 
oil and gas technology assets, including 
human-machine interfaces (HMIs), by le -
veraging artificial intelligence (AI) advanc -
es to monitor and detect cyber threats, and 
then deploy patches to ensure operational 
technology (OT) assets continue running 
safely and reliably in the field, Fig. 1.
The authors analyze and discuss a vari -
ety of real threats associated with increas -
ingly sophisticated, malicious cyberattacks 
on brownfield and greenfield assets. They 
also discuss how the DeepArmor Indus -
trial system can be implemented to protect 
endpoint assets.
Increasingly common cyber threats 
prove costly and complicated.  Con -
sider the following scenario. A pipeline 
company’s chief information security of -
ficer gets a phone call in the middle of the night. One of the company’s compressor 
stations went down in a remote area in the 
middle of the night, effectively stopping 
natural gas transport in a thousand-mile-
long pipeline. The problem's root cause is 
not immediately evident, but it forces pro -
ducers who use this pipeline to get their 
product to market through other routes. 
In addition, customers who rely on just-in-
time delivery will have to scramble to find 
other supply sources. And until the prob -
lem can be pinpointed and isolated, the 
pipeline company cannot guarantee that 
other compressor stations will not suffer 
the same fate. This scenario played out in 
early 2020, when a ransomware attack put 
a natural gas compression facility out of 
commission for two days.
Oil and gas companies across the sup -
ply chain are recognizing cyberattacks as 
a real and growing threat to their enter -
prises. A 2017 study conducted by the 
Ponemon Institute surveyed global oil and 
gas companies about their preparedness 
to respond to cyberattacks. The survey 
results showed that 67% of respondents 
believed the risk of cyber threats to indus -
trial control systems had increased over 
the past few years. This same study found 
that 61% of respondents said their organi -
zation’s industrial control systems protec -
tion and security were not adequate. These 
statistics point to the growing threat that 
cyberattacks have on the energy indus -
try, which increasingly hinder companies’ 
physical safety and security, business op -
erations, and other critical infrastructure. 
Many energy companies with remote, 
endpoint assets have struggled to defend 
their environment, because they lack the 
ability to quickly detect, or the agility to 
mitigate, cyberattacks that threaten opera -
tional technologies.
Cyber threats to brownfield and 
digitally native assets.  The widespread 
adoption of digital technologies has helped 
energy companies improve the safety, reli -
ability and efficiency of their operations. 
Increased connectivity of OT is widely re -garded as the key to these improvements. 
At the same time, this connectivity has 
expanded these operations’ exposure to 
cyberattacks.
While cyberattacks can successfully 
strike both older, brownfield assets and 
newer equipment installed with digital 
technologies from the outset, these sys -
tems are vulnerable for varied reasons. 
Older compressor stations still rely on a 
combination of analog equipment and 
digital retrofits. Many of these facilities 
are in remote locations along a pipeline, 
meaning that they operate for extended 
periods without direct human interaction 
or involvement. This equipment may only 
connect to networks when annual updates 
are required or receive updates from tech -
nicians when they visit the site. This isola -
tion results in longer exposure to emerging 
risks and increased maintenance expenses.
For newer equipment, such as a smart 
meter or digitally native compressor sta -
tion, the OT is connected continuously 
to information technology (IT) networks. 
Through this connectivity, which is a criti -
cal component of the industrial internet 
of things (IoT), technicians can monitor 
Fig. 1.  DeepArmor provides the 
industry a unique solution for detecting 
and protecting endpoint assets from 
cyberattacks. (Image courtesy of Siemens 
Energy).
Originally  appeared in  World Oil® JANUARY 2021  issue, pgs 39-41. Posted with permission.
40  JANUARY 2021  / WorldOil.com
DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONmetrics, diagnose problems, and make 
software upgrades without having to visit 
the site. However, the same connectivity 
that enables such rapid updates and effi -
cient operations management also increas -
es exposure to cyberattacks. Attackers can 
easily use the same network and tools to 
introduce malware, Fig. 2.
The critical need for patching.  Re-
gardless of the equipment's age and digital 
sophistication, operators cannot afford 
to let their security measures fall behind, 
as new attack methods and cyber threats 
increasingly target energy infrastructure. 
Software patches must be installed regu -
larly to deal with new threats on remote 
assets—a process that has proven techno -
logically and economically challenging for 
many companies.
As a result, some companies have de -
veloped a “can’t patch, won’t patch” men -
tality regarding some of their assets. Sys -
tems under the “can’t patch” category are 
typically older machines that cannot be 
patched because the original equipment 
manufacturer (OEM) no longer provides 
patches, such as Windows XP or Windows 
7. The “won’t patch” mentality is linked 
to the perceived criticality of a system or 
piece of equipment. A system that is not 
considered a critical part of the operation 
may not get routine patching updates be -
cause the potential threat is considered 
low enough that the time and expense of 
patching are not justified.
Adhering to either of these ideas risks the asset’s safety, operability, profitability 
and potential outages for the companies. 
However, even the most robust patch -
ing program may include intervals where 
patches are not easily or quickly deployed 
to isolated or intermittently connected 
sites. This leaves systems vulnerable to 
new threats before they are widely known.
Novel endpoint monitoring and pro -
tection.  These challenges have driven the 
need for monitoring tools that increase 
the chance of detecting an attack while it 
is happening. Access to real-time data lets 
operators identify and investigate anoma -
lies. In addition, automated monitoring so -
lutions provide constant tracking and vigi -
lance to quickly recognize site conditions 
or user behaviors that suggest a threat and 
enable early interventions to minimize the 
threat’s spread to other systems.
Meeting these needs was the goal be -
hind the development of DeepArmor 
Industrial, powered by Siemens Energy, 
which perpetually looks for cyber threats 
for vulnerable endpoint OT assets—
whether they are isolated in the field or 
continuously connected. This constant 
monitoring solution also deploys patches 
to keep critical equipment safe until se -
curity experts can update protocols in the 
field.
Unlike existing endpoint solutions, this 
cybersecurity solution incorporates artifi -
cial intelligence to provide a defense layer 
independent of threat intelligence, thus 
eliminating the need for threat signature updates or specialized analysts to secure 
OT systems individually. The solution 
uses behavioral analysis to continuously 
monitor and detect new threats, resulting 
in both a first line of defense and immedi -
ate protection against previously identified  
and zero-day attacks on endpoint devices.
Such features provide robust cyberse -
curity measures to prevent or mitigate at -
tacks, even novel threats still unknown to 
the industry, while reducing asset owners' 
security costs. The system can be installed 
early in the week, receive no updates all 
week, and remain an effective defense at 
the end of the week—even for new threats 
that emerge in the days in between.
The solution’s intelligent defense and 
detection capabilities, customized design, 
and site-specific deployment model deliv -
er secure solutions. The AI-based defense 
system uses a predictive approach to pre -
vent ransomware, viruses, and other ad -
vanced malware from executing. Data sci -
ence models, which leverage unique threat 
detection IP and methodology, are hosted 
individually, and executed on-device to 
help deliver high efficacy against zero-day 
attacks.
The monitoring system significantly re -
duces false positives and the costs to update 
physically distant assets. It vastly improves 
cyber resiliency from the first day of instal -
lation through pre-trained AI algorithms 
that detect and protect against known and 
unknown threats. It also helps prevent 
industrial attacks in disconnected OT en -
vironments, including industrial HMIs,  
engineering workstations, engineering 
notebooks, data stores, and historians.
Because AI capabilities are built into 
this monitoring solution, it does not re -
quire patches and can support old versions 
of Windows natively. This gives users the 
IT technology of a next-generation, end -
point protection product, installed into 
an OT-architected product that runs on 
everything from Windows 2000 to current 
Windows releases such as Windows 10 
and Server 2019.
Deploying the system for a tailored 
defense approach.  Because few sites in 
the energy sector are homogenous, instal -
lation of this cyber threat monitoring solu -
tion is not a “one-size-fits-all” proposition. 
The process begins with Siemens Energy’s 
service team members gaining a deep un -
derstanding of the unique organizational 
and technical needs within the asset’s op -
erational environment. This includes a Fig. 2.  The same connectivity that enables rapid updates and efficient operations 
management also increases exposure to cyberattacks.

World Oil® / JANUARY 2021  41 
DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONcareful review of the network architecture 
to identify the most effective placement of 
AI-driven, OT endpoint protection. The 
service team helps owners evaluate their 
assets and prioritize defense strategies 
based on three risk criteria:
• Connectivity, which affects the 
magnitude of exposure to attack.
• Operational importance, which 
indicates the severity of impacts on 
the business, if attacks disrupt the 
normal function of the equipment 
or system.
• The maintenance schedule, which 
indicates the length of intervals in 
between defense updates, as well as 
the difficulty or expense of updates.
A customized deployment approach 
is designed with these criteria in mind, to 
ensure that the installed solution meets the 
asset owner’s endpoint protection needs. 
For example, consider two identical serv -
ers purchased from the same manufacturer. 
The first is installed at a remote site, where 
it logs the activities of a pumping station. 
The second is installed at a company’s flag -
ship facility, supporting an HMI critical 
to managing several parts of the plant. In 
this example, tight restrictions, as regards 
which applications one can execute on the 
server, would help secure the remote site. 
However, these same restrictions might 
disrupt or curb critical workflows at the 
flagship site.
The service provider’s understanding 
of the energy supply chain, coupled with 
the monitoring system’s protection, gives 
asset owners a clear picture of their risk 
profile—both in terms of the identified 
vulnerabilities at their sites and the opera -
tional impact that an attack could have by 
exploiting these vulnerabilities. This anal -
ysis enables asset owners to prioritize high-
risk, high-value targets and select defense 
architecture and technology appropriate 
to the site.
Assured cybersecurity for long-term 
asset optimization.  In today’s rapidly 
changing and unpredictable energy sector, 
the need for robust cybersecurity protec -
tions is critical to asset owners’ reliable 
operability and profitability. This new 
monitoring system is proving itself to be 
a differentiating solution for today’s cy -
bersecurity environment, as attacks on the 
energy sector increase in frequency and so -
phistication, Fig. 3.  The AI-based solution 
offers an unprecedented level of protection 
to endpoint assets of varying application and age. The always vigilant, customizable 
cybersecurity solution protects critical 
assets from cyberattacks—whether inter -
mittently connected in a remote operating 
environment or continuously connected 
to the network.
The cognitive endpoint protection af -
forded by this monitoring solution gives 
the asset owner accurate, early-warning 
failure prediction. By identifying and iso -
lating cyber threats quickly, this monitor -
ing solution prevents costly asset failures, 
reducing unscheduled downtime while op -
timizing asset performance. This solution 
also provides detailed, actionable insights 
that asset owners can use to safeguard their 
assets from newer cyber threats.
Consider the compressor station sce -
nario presented earlier, but now with the 
addition of DeepArmor Industrial at the 
asset. This time, the chief information offi -
cer gets an email in the middle of the night 
from the company’s security operations 
center. The monitoring system detected an 
anomaly at one of the compressor stations. 
The system immediately interrupted the 
execution of the malicious code, prevented 
the system from being wiped, and flagged 
the incident for analysis.
A technician realized that malware had 
been inadvertently loaded onto the sys -
tem during the previous update. The sys -
tem was immediately reverted to an older 
software patch, and the technician quickly 
identified the malware that had infected the device. The technician notified his col -
leagues of the newly identified malware 
and shared the threat intelligence with the 
industry. Future patches will be designed 
to defend against this new threat.
As such incidents become more com -
mon, the innovative, AI-driven DeepAr -
mor Industrial system is delivering next-
generation antivirus, threat detection, 
application control, and zero-day attack 
prevention to endpoint assets across the 
energy production, generation, transmis -
sion, and distribution chain. For the first 
time, asset owners have access to a system 
that brings fleet-level cybersecurity moni -
toring and protection capabilities—for 
today’s cyberattacks and emerging, future 
threats. 
JARRED CAPELLMAN  is director of software 
engineering at SparkCognition. He has spent 
the last 15 years delivering scalable software 
solutions across industries with a focus on 
cybersecurity and leads the engineering team 
delivering next-gen endpoint protection, 
DeepArmor. Mr. Capellman holds a MS degree 
in cybersecurity and is working toward a DSc 
degree in cybersecurity, focusing on zero-day 
network threats by combining his software 
engineering, data science and cyber security 
experience.
MATT STEWART  has been an operational 
technology controls and cybersecurity expert 
for Siemens Energy for the past 11 years. Initially 
part of the field service and remote support 
team, Matt transitioned into the role of a control 
systems expert before merging that knowledge 
with his previous career in information 
technology systems and security.Fig. 3.  The AI-driven software technology enables operators to defend isolated systems 
against sophisticated cyberattacks.
Article copyright © 2021 by Gulf Publishing Company. All rights reserved. 
Not to be distributed in electronic or printed form, or posted on a website,  without express written permission of copyright holder .