Reprinted from June 2021 19 HYDROCARBO N 
ENGINEERINGCyber threats are a real and growing risk to oil and 
gas operations up and down the asset chain. For 
refineries, the potential for a cyber-attack is not a 
rare, black swan event but instead an everyday 
occurrence that can significantly impact daily operations 
and long-term profitability.
Refineries are dynamic, active locations, with refinery 
personnel and people from many different vendors moving 
in and out of the site daily. As a result, the risk of someone 
plugging a random USB key into a computer and 
introducing – accidentally or purposely – some malware is 
much higher in a refinery than in a remote location such as 
a pipeline compressor station. 
The risk compounds with multiple vendors, many of 
whom have their own equipment installed in the refinery’s 
systems. This equipment provides a data feed into the 
refinery and another entry point for a malicious 
cyber-attack. The chances of a refinery falling prey to a cyber-attack 
increase substantially during a turnaround, shutdown, or 
outage. Whether it is maintenance to a single unit or a 
full-facility turnaround, a large number of unfamiliar people 
from original equipment manufacturer (OEM) providers and 
maintenance crews, who are not part of the day-to-day 
workforce, will have physical access to network endpoints 
throughout the facility. That access is not just limited to 
the specific machine they are working on but often 
includes adjacent equipment as well, since having an 
operations team member physically escort every worker all 
the time is not practical. 
With so many new faces onsite making repairs and 
upgrades to the refinery’s operational technology (OT), the 
plant’s information technology (IT) systems are often left 
vulnerable. Turnarounds, shutdowns, and outages are ideal 
times to install new security patches and also make 
changes to the plant’s distributed control system (DCS), Sam Miorelli, Siemens Energy, USA, looks at how to optimise 
refinery turnarounds with AI-driven cybersecurity advances.
Reprinted from June 2021HYDROCARBO N 
ENGINEERINGwhich requires disabling some antivirus protections and other 
network security functions. This situation makes the plant 
particularly vulnerable to a cyber threat.
Whether the attack originates from within or outside, one 
or more refining processes may be adversely affected. Critical 
systems and equipment might experience a drop in output or 
performance – or may fail altogether. And because the 
refiner’s legacy antivirus and cyber protection systems are 
intentionally offline so that software updates or changes can 
be applied, a failure on startup may be hard to diagnose. Did a 
mechanical repair or upgrade fail? Did the vendor misconfigure 
their controls software? Or has malware crept in unnoticed? 
This all-too-common scenario presents a paradox. During 
major work, the refiner does not send its teams of physical 
security personnel home and turn off the security cameras. 
Yet when performing some OT and IT upgrades, the unwary 
refiner does the cyber equivalent, leaving their systems 
exposed and blind to cyber threats — when those security 
functions are most critical. 
Shoring up cybersecurity with AI 
advances
Threats like the ones described above are all too real and very 
expensive. In 2019, for example, Mexico’s state oil company 
Pemex was the victim of a ransomware attack that forced it to 
shut down many of its computers across the country.1 The 
attackers demanded US$5 million of Bitcoin to unencrypt the 
affected computers, which Pemex refused to pay. While the 
company stated that only 5% of its computers were impacted 
company-wide2, the situation required Pemex to quarantine 
and clean the affected systems — a costly and 
time-consuming operation. 
In response to these types of challenges, Siemens Energy 
and SparkCognition have teamed up to develop 
DeepArmor Industrial, fortified by Siemens Energy, a 
cybersecurity platform that leverages artificial intelligence (AI) 
and machine learning to protect endpoint assets in the 
refinery. This platform provides a means of always keeping the 
refinery’s cybersecurity function online, even when certain IT 
cybersecurity functions must be disabled. 
The platform achieves this level of protection due to its 
machine learning functionality. When DeepArmor Industrial is 
first installed, it is placed in observer mode as it learns the 
processes. Once the refiner and Siemens Energy’s engineering 
team are convinced that the platform understands the 
difference between routine operations and a cyber threat event, it is taken out of observer mode 
to track and control normal operations 
– without the risk of shutting down a 
critical component of the refinery’s 
operations. 
During a turnaround, shutdown, or 
outage, the platform can be easily 
placed back into observer mode, where 
it continues to track and report 
non-routine events or potential cyber 
threats – but without the ability to 
intervene and prevent the perceived 
threat from entering the system. 
This is particularly important when a 
legitimate software upgrade from a vendor might be mistaken 
as malware simply because the upgrade is so new or unfamiliar 
to the platform. But rather than shutting down the system and 
delaying the upgrade, the platform records and reports the 
event to the operations team, who can then investigate the 
situation further.
Because the cybersecurity platform is endpoint-based, it 
identifies the physical location — the computer or system 
– where the issue was detected. As a result, the operations 
team can quickly go to that location, confirm the threat, and 
resolve the situation – before the threat spreads to other 
systems or becomes a more severe issue. Therefore, a refiner 
can be confident that restarting issues are not symptoms of a 
nascent cyberattack.
Tracking threats in one or more 
facilities
Historically, if a cyber threat was detected during a patching 
operation, the refiner would have to spend extra time tracking 
down the precise location of the threat. This is because legacy 
systems did not afford easy access to the data from one 
reporting interface – particularly in heterogeneous operations 
in which multiple systems running on multiple operating 
systems had to be tracked. 
The platform does not require every machine it is tracking 
to be running on the same version of the operating system (OS) 
or even a current OS. The operator can quickly identify and 
review potential threats from multiple systems without having 
to piece together and convert data from machines running 
different versions of the OS. 
This new platform improves threat tracking and reporting in 
a heterogeneous plant environment. A management function 
built into the platform allows refinery operations to assess 
threats from many machines throughout one facility – or across 
multiple connected facilities – all through a single console. 
This function moves the refiner away from a 
machine-by-machine lockdown approach and toward one 
location where they can review and assess the entire 
operation with greater confidence and efficiency. If a threat 
is found, the affected endpoints can be locked down by 
DeepArmor Industrial from the central console – 
dramatically speeding up response times.
As the OEM for the platform, Siemens Energy can perform 
the refinery’s cyber-threat monitoring function, freeing up 
operations personnel to perform other critical tasks when 
teams are stretched by aggressive turnaround schedules. 
Figure 1.  As cyber threats increase in their sophistication and frequency, 
the time for refiners to shore up their defences is now (image courtesy of 
Siemens Energy).
Reprinted from June 2021HYDROCARBO N 
ENGINEERINGExtending operations profitably by 
delaying patching outages
A refinery’s IT department might recommend conducting small 
outages to install patches on a more frequent basis, perhaps 
even once per month. However, this frequency is not 
cost-effective and does not line up with the refinery’s business 
model. 
The platform gives the refinery’s operations team a rational 
justification to delay that patching outage due to other 
business needs. Because of its AI capabilities, the platform 
stays ahead of vulnerabilities such as zero-day attacks and 
other critical threats. 
While not a replacement for patching, the platform can act 
as a bridge to the refinery’s next reasonable opportunity to do a 
patching outage. The platform’s real-time, continuous tracking 
of threats gives the operations team confidence to delay an 
outage on a critical piece of equipment by a few weeks or 
months, extending profitable operations without putting plant 
systems at risk. 
Entering a new arena of cyberspace 
protection
A recent study by Ponemon Institute and Siemens Energy 
showed that while two-thirds of oil and gas executives say 
that their companies benefit from digitisation, even with the 
increased risk of cybersecurity threats, only 18% of energy 
companies are using AI to detect attackers.3 
This is certainly evident when one considers the typical 
preparation for a turnaround. A great deal of thought and 
effort goes into ensuring that all the required hardware and equipment are ordered and ready; however, much less 
planning goes into preparing on the software and digital side. 
The potential cyber risks that the refinery could face during 
the outage are often not the foremost consideration. 
But with advances such as AI-powered cybersecurity 
platforms, it does not have to be this way. It is possible for 
refiners to enter a new, assured arena of cyber protection – 
both during routine operations and when time is critical 
during outages, shutdowns, and turnarounds. 
Cybersecurity platforms can provide day-to-day 
protection from external threats (e.g. zero-day attacks) and 
internal threats (e.g. an unexpected USB key) with its AI and 
machine learning capabilities. And in a turnaround, the 
platform’s ability to continuously monitor cyber threats gives 
refiners confidence that they will not miss a malware attack 
while busy with other outage-related activities. 
As cyber threats increase in their sophistication and 
frequency, the time for refiners to shore up their defences is 
now. Refiners require a robust cybersecurity platform that can 
support both OT and IT systems and significantly lower the 
risks of a cyber-based attack taking down their plant. 
References
1. BARRERA, A. and SATTER, R., ‘Hackers demand $5 million from 
Mexico’s Pemex in cyberattack’, Reuters, (12 November 2019), https://
www.reuters.com/article/idUSKBN1XN03A 
2. ‘Pemex Is Operating Normally’, Pemex, (11 November 2019), https://
www.pemex.com/en/press_room/press_releases/Paginas/2019-048_
national.aspx
3. ‘Caught in the Crosshairs: Are Utilities Keeping Up with the Industrial 
Cyber Threat?,’ Ponemon Institute and Siemens Energy, (2019), 
https://assets.new.siemens.com/siemens/assets/api/uuid:35089d45-
e1c2-4b8b-b4e9-7ce8cae81eaa/siemens-cybersecurity.pdf