Three ways oil and gas 
operators can close  
their most prominent 
cybersecurity blind spot
White paper |  Three ways oil and gas operators can close their most prominent cybersecurity blind spot
Growing threats.  Today’s perpetrators of cyber-attacks like 
this one are increasingly sophisticated and diverse in their 
methods, and such incidents will grow in frequency and 
number. They take advantage of any combination of 
cybersecurity complacency, technical vulnerabilities, and 
human errors they can identify and successfully exploit.  
As the digitalization of oil and gas industry operations 
increases, these vulnerabilities inevitably increase, too. 
That’s because as oil and gas operators deploy an  
increasing number of interconnected digital assets,  
controls, and networks across wider spans of their  
plants, they are also effectively expanding their overall 
cybersecurity risk exposure — what cybersecurity experts 
call the attack surface. Complicating this further is the  
need for their third-party OEM partners to have network 
access to their machinery for remote performance 
monitoring and diagnostics. Are current oil and gas industry cyber safeguards 
sufficient?
Unfortunately, in many cases, the digitalization initiatives 
across the oil and gas industry in recent years have 
outpaced the deployment of commensurate cybersecurity 
safeguards. But, by now, industry executives, operations 
managers, engineers, and technicians should know that 
cyberthreats and attacks are not rare, black swan events  
but everyday occurrences. Cybercriminals are continually 
probing operators’ defenses to gain stealth entry to 
operational technology (OT) networks for financial gain, 
espionage, or disruptions.
Attack vectors can be external or internal, the latter via 
collusive, disgruntled, or careless employees. If external, 
vectors can include: Web server or web page hacking via 
injections of malicious code into the databases behind  
web pages; phishing attacks to deliver malware, including 
ransomware, or to gain login credentials; botnets for  
brute force attacks; and man-in-the-middle intrusions 
through unsecured or inadequately secured routers  
and web gateways.
If successful, a cyber intrusion can seriously disrupt 
production with potentially huge costs, especially if  
health, safety, and environmental (HSE) safeguards are 
compromised. But many breaches are not detected as they 
occur, leaving intruders time to explore other vulnerabilities 
and available data and intellectual property to exfiltrate.  Cyberthreats and attacks against oil and 
gas operators are not rare, black swan 
events, but everyday occurrences.
IN FACT, ACCORDING TO THE PONEMON INSTITUTE,3   
THE AVERAGE TIME U.S. COMPANIES TOOK TO DETECT  
AND CONTAIN A DATA BREACH IS
WITH AN AVERAGE COST OF 
$8.2 million245 daysLate in 2019, hackers reportedly perpetrated a ransomware 
attack on Pemex, Mexico’s state oil company, forcing it to 
shut down numerous computers across the country.1  Ac-
cording to the company, only 5 percent were affected, while 
fuel production, supply and inventory were not disrupted.2  
Nonetheless, the episode was disruptive and demonstrated 
the ability of hackers to penetrate the cyber defenses of one 
of the world’s largest oil and gas companies. which the company refused to 
pay and instead quarantined and 
cleaned those systems.THE ATTACKERS  
DEMANDED  
A BITCOIN  
RANSOM WORTHAT THE TIME TO UNENCRYPT 
THE AFFECTED SYSTEMS$5 millionLike critical industries everywhere, oil and gas operations 
— upstream, midstream, and downstream — make prime 
targets for cyber threats of all kinds. Sources of those 
threats are increasingly criminal enterprises, state actors, 
and so-called hacktivists with political agendas. That’s in 
addition to solitary hackers using powerful tools readily 
available on the Dark Web.
2
Category Information Technology System Industrial Control System
Risk management requirementsData confidentiality and integrity  
is paramountHuman safety is paramount, followed  
by protection on the process
Time-critical interaction Less critical emergency interactionResponse to human and other  
emergency interaction is critical
Communications Standard communications protocolsMany proprietary and standard  
communication protocols
Manage support Allow for diversified support styles Service support is usually via a single vendor
Component lifetime Lifetime on the order of 3-5 years Lifetime on the order of 15-20 years
Access to componentsComponents are usually local and easy to  
accessComponents can be isolated, remote, and re -
quire extensive physical effort to gain access.
Such consequences can certainly be troublesome and 
potentially costly. Still, the key difference between OT and 
enterprise IT digital infrastructures is this: If the latter is 
compromised, no one is ever injured or worse. In addition  
to this life-safety security distinction, OT differs from non-
industrial enterprise IT digital infrastructures in other 
significant ways, too, as Figure 1 summarizes. 
In contrast, enterprise IT infrastructure can run on a best-
effort basis, so a break in one part of an IT network forces 
routers to send data packets down alternate paths. Small 
one- or two-second delays, as a result, are not a problem for  
end-users, who won’t notice the delays. In OT environments, however, deterministic industrial 
control systems (ICSs) must operate with no more than 
millisecond latencies. One- or two-second delays can cause 
a costly production shutdown with potential HSE impacts. 
Therefore, the disruption risks of a security breach in the  
OT infrastructures can be much higher than for an 
enterprise IT network. 
Last, an important difference between IT and OT digital 
infrastructures is the latter must usually operate inside  
a more complex, multi-vendor environment with diverse 
configurations of components, firmware, and software. 
Enterprise IT digital infrastructures are generally much  
more standardized and less complex.
This situation can result in many undocumented 
interdependencies that only appear when a change  
in one area of production causes unplanned impacts 
elsewhere in a plant’s operations. Take, for example,  
an antivirus software update to an OT network. Despite 
being an IT cyber-protection best practice, this can  
possibly introduce enough latencies in production  
processes to interrupt the deterministic, millisecond  
ICS communications those processes require.White paper | Three ways oil and gas operators can close their most prominent cybersecurity blind spot 
For oil and gas operators anywhere along the value  
stream, a breach could disrupt operations, causing 
substantial costs in lost production. In early 2020, 
ransomware forced a major pipeline operator to shut  
down for two days, not only costing potentially millions  
in lost revenue but also undermining customer confidence 
in the integrity of their operations. OT versus IT infrastructure security.  Generally, an oil and 
gas operator’s enterprise IT network connects employees 
not only with each other — via email, web collaboration 
tools, and even voice communications — but also with 
information through company databases, file-sharing 
servers, software applications, and other means. If 
enterprise cyber threats such as malware, data theft, or 
corrupted data or devices happen in front- or back-office 
environments, disruption to user productivity and even  
a company’s transactional capabilities could occur. 
THE OT DIGITAL INFRASTRUCTURES USED BY OIL AND GAS  
OPERATORS USUALLY OPERATE 
IN REAL- OR NEAR-REAL  
TIME, AND WITH ANOTHER DIFFERENCE:  
UPTIME OR BETTER99.9% 24x7Figure 1.   Security issues compared between enterprise IT and industrial OT infrastructures. NIST: Guide to Industrial Control Systems (ICS) 
Security.
3
White paper |  Three ways oil and gas operators can close their most prominent cybersecurity blind spot
The oil and gas industry’s most prominent cybersecurity 
blind spot: “It’s IT’s job.”   
Despite all the diverse OT risks of reliability, availability,  
and safety — and the potential magnitude of their 
consequences — many management and operational 
executives of oil and gas companies can mistakenly believe 
that security is not their responsibility. Or they can assume 
they’re powerless to counter the threats because they lack 
the charter (i.e., “it’s IT’s job”), the expertise, and the tools. 
This can lead to complacency among stakeholders outside 
of IT, creating a big blind spot that a threat actor can exploit. 
As illustrated in Figure 2, cybersecurity should be a shared 
responsibility of all employees in a company, from the 
executive suite to close collaboration among OT, operations, 
and enterprise IT. 
Cybersecurity should also engage health, safety, and 
environmental (HSE) teams, because of the potential HSE 
impacts of a severe security breach. HR must be involved, 
too, because all employees need to be aware, trained, and 
accountable for their potential roles, intentional or not, in 
opening the doors — physically or virtually — to attackers.Closing the blind spot, tip #1: Think about oil and gas 
cybersecurity in practical terms of reliability, availability, 
safety, and resilience
As mentioned, OT and operations management, engineers, 
and technicians of oil and gas operators tend to defer to IT 
professionals to provide needed cybersecurity safeguards 
— as they should. After all, IT typically has the knowledge, 
experience, and tools to build a layered, defense-in-depth 
model that’s considered a best practice worldwide. Or, if 
not, they’ve responsibly outsourced it. 
However, IT teams are typically not as aware or as sensitive 
to the practical and critical production issues of reliability, 
availability, safety, and resiliency as their OT and operations 
counterparts are. To elaborate, an intrusion into OT’s ICSs 
and networks can cause severe disruptions that can 
seriously compromise these as critical dimensions of  
any oil and gas operation:
  The reliability of capital assets — sophisticated 
machinery, ICSs, SCADA/DCS platforms, data historians, 
manufacturing execution systems, electromechanical 
and pneumatic systems, and the networks 
interconnecting them — to perform as expected.
  The availability of those assets, which must typically 
operate 24x7, in real- or near-real time and require 99.9% 
uptime or better.
  The safety of personnel throughout the operational 
environment and the surrounding natural environment 
and nearby communities.
  The resilience of oil and gas operations should a breach 
occur and how quickly it can be discovered, contained, 
and remediated to prevent or minimize disruptions.   
For these four reasons, OT and operations teams need to be 
fully engaged in the design, engineering, and deployment 
of cybersecurity safeguards to protect their production and 
logistics infrastructures. First, they have to realize that they 
have a direct, not peripheral, stake in cybersecurity. And, 
second, who better than they to understand how significant 
the disruption risks of an OT security breach can be to their 
company’s production quotas and bottom-line?
CybersecurityC-Suite
ITOT OpsHR HSE
Figure 2. Every employee has a stake in cybersecurity and different 
responsibilities for ensuring company assets, including equipment, 
data and intellectual property, and operations are protected. 
4
White paper | Three ways oil and gas operators can close their most prominent cybersecurity blind spot 
Closin g the blind spot, tip #2:   Develop a comprehensive 
OT cybersecurity model involving all company 
stakeholders 
When it comes to oil and gas companies’ digitalization 
initiatives, cybersecurity often takes a back seat to what 
might be considered more strategic interests. Metrics such 
as capital efficiencies and operating margins may well 
command more considerable attention of plant managers, 
company executives, and their board members as being 
strategic to maximizing shareholder value and market 
capitalization. 
Cybersecurity, on the other hand, is too often considered a 
lower-level, tactical concern — even an after-thought of 
digitalization efforts — that’s best delegated to the security 
experts that they presume to exist in their IT organizations. 
But those experts may not exist or, if they do, they may well 
be oriented toward enterprise IT cybersecurity as discussed, 
not the unique needs of OT. 
So, what’s needed to further close the collective blind spot 
— “it’s IT’s job” — among cybersecurity stakeholders across 
an oil and gas operation? Two elements are essential:
  First, recognize, educate, and hold accountable the 
critical stakeholders  as illustrated in Figure 2.  
They include not just OT, operations, and their IT 
counterparts, but also C-suite executives, HSE, HR,  
and all employees. Everyone needs to consider 
cybersecurity as intrinsic to the company’s digitalization 
efforts. In other words, you can’t have one without  
the other — and everyone has a role to play, even  
rank-and-file employees who can be subject to  
phishing exploits and ransomware attacks.
  C-level executives need to understand and support 
cybersecurity’s criticality as they do HSE concerns  
and digitalization initiatives. Then, more specifically, 
they need to understand OT’s cybersecurity distinctions 
from enterprise IT ones. OT and IT professionals  
must collaborate, especially taking time to learn  
and appreciate each other’s own perspectives  
and requirements, applying the best of both to 
cybersecurity’s challenges. Finally, as core stakeholders, 
HSE and HR must have seats at the table for reasons 
already mentioned.   
  Second, include OT protections in a comprehensive 
OT-oriented cybersecurity model  that employs baseline 
defense-in-depth protections as defined by IEC 62443 
and other cybersecurity standards, such as the NERC and 
NIST. OT safeguards can’t be out-of-the-box solutions, 
primarily because oil and gas operations are far too 
complex for such an approach. Instead, they must be 
applied in a more expansive OT context: across entire 
asset classes of machines, systems, processing units, and 
the ICS and networking systems commanding and 
linking them together.To be comprehensive, an OT-oriented cybersecurity model 
needs to focus on three key dimensions. One is Assessment 
and Planning . Assets must be fully inventoried to 
understand what needs protection. Potential threats should 
be identified and documented, while also compiling a 
risk-ranked list of all vulnerabilities and weaknesses. 
Based on this information, with inputs from all core 
stakeholders, an OT cybersecurity roadmap can be 
developed as an action plan that complements both OT 
digitalization efforts and enterprise IT cybersecurity. The 
plan should be revisited at least annually, if not more often, 
to ensure its relevancy amidst changing operational 
requirements and environments.
That roadmap will become a foundation for the second area 
for documentation: Protection . What safeguards are now in 
place for different OT assets, and which ones are needed? 
How do you test their effectiveness to ensure they’re 
working as they should? Also, it’s critically important to have 
an automated data and application backup and recovery 
model that’s periodically tested to ensure it’s working. For 
especially critical processes, redundant systems with hot 
fail-over capabilities running in parallel are essential.
The third area is Detection and Response . This will define 
what a breach is, how to know one has occurred, proper 
responses to different kinds of attacks, and how to 
remediate the vulnerability that was exploited and identify 
new weaknesses over time. In case an intrusion or breach is 
detected, the roles and responsibilities along with various 
escalation paths for each class of core stakeholders should 
be defined. 
Going further, a response simulation exercise — called a 
“tabletop exercise” — should be conducted at least annually 
with a representative from each group acting out their 
respective role as if an intrusion happened and a cyber 
attack successfully disrupted operations. 
IF AND WHEN AN ACTUAL ATTACK OCCURS, INDIVIDUALS 
NEED TO KNOW WHAT TO DO IMMEDIATELY
PERIODIC ROLE-PLAYING WILL HELP CONSIDERABLY.     TO ENSURE THE PROPER RESPONSE 
WAS MADE AND TO MINIMIZE THE 
TIME INVOLVED.
5
White paper |  Three ways oil and gas operators can close their most prominent cybersecurity blind spot
Closing the blind spot, tip #3:  Engage third-party OT 
cybersecurity expertise
Odds are, the enterprise IT teams of oil and gas enterprises 
lack time to learn how to properly set up, monitor, and 
continually update the kind of layered, defense-in-depth OT 
cybersecurity safeguards just described. What’s more, they 
can lack the means to respond quickly and effectively to a 
detected cyber intrusion or disruptive direct attack, such as 
ransomware, denial-of-service, or an advanced persistent 
threat buried deep in a digital asset.
That’s not a criticism of enterprise IT professionals. It’s just 
that establishing and monitoring a comprehensive OT-
oriented cybersecurity model for complex oil and gas 
operations anywhere along the value stream is a significant 
undertaking. Specialized cybersecurity skills and experience 
are needed. However, these are in short supply and typically 
cost a hiring premium. That’s why Siemens offers OT 
cybersecurity outsourcing backed by global security 
operations centers for 24x7, real-time monitoring. 
Depending on an oil and gas operator’s requirements, we 
offer three packages of cybersecurity services: Basic, 
Essential, and Essential Plus. Each one can be tailored for 
PCS 7, S7, Wonderware, Allen Bradley, or Dresser-Rand 
environments. Our Essential package covers these six areas:
  System hardening.  This is the process of limiting 
potential weaknesses that make systems vulnerable to 
cyber attacks. It involves identifying unneeded services, 
software, and unused ports on OT hardware assets, then 
removing or disabling them. We enable MAC (Media 
Access Control) filtering, listing permissible devices on a 
network; system logging to document digital events as 
they occur and to provide a historical record of those 
events; and resetting the BIOS of networked devices to 
disable the use of CDs, DVDs, and USB flash drives as 
bootable alternatives. 
  Secure segmentation . This involves separating OT and 
IT networks with advanced monitored firewalls, creating 
a so-called Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), so intrusions from 
either OT or IT networks can be prevented. OT 
segmentation also includes separating production cells, 
processes, systems, and databases with firewalls, so a 
successful intrusion in one segment can be contained to 
that segment, which can be quarantined. This way, an 
intrusion response can be more targeted and done 
faster.  Disaster recovery.  This requires an automated backup 
of critical OT data and ICS and automation systems to 
secure, offsite network-attached storage with automatic 
recovery of data, with specific Recovery Point Objective 
(RPO) and Recovery Time Objective (RTO) parameters 
set. It enables oil and gas operators to resume 
operations quickly, should a cyber attack corrupt or 
encrypt (e.g., ransomware) needed production data and 
applications. It also protects digital assets in case of 
natural disasters. This service includes the testing and 
verification of backups.
  User access management.  This controls the access 
privileges to various systems and applications of 
individuals working in the OT environment as well as the 
remote access of external third parties, such as OEMs 
needing performance monitoring. It removes default 
and unused accounts and enforces password complexity 
and lifecycles. 
  Software patch management.  This provides continually 
tested and verified firmware updates, including critical 
security patches, doing so with a full understanding of 
many interdependencies of OT devices and applications 
to minimize potential production disruptions. It includes 
the installation of application updates and upgrades.  
  Malware protection.  This safeguards OT asset endpoints 
and systems from malicious code and provides updated 
antivirus definitions based on a continual scanning of 
known malware signatures worldwide.
That’s why Siemens Energy offers OT 
cybersecurity outsourcing backed by  
global security operations centers for 24x7, 
real-time monitoring. 
6
White paper | Three ways oil and gas operators can close their most prominent cybersecurity blind spot 
Get started closing the oil and gas cybersecurity blind 
spot now
Legendary bank robber Willie Sutton was once asked why  
he robbed banks, and he answered, “Because that’s where 
the money is.” More and more, that’s the motive of criminal 
enterprises and state actors targeting the critical 
infrastructures of oil and gas operators with cyber attacks, 
especially ransomware that can involve sizeable payoff 
demands. But sabotage and espionage are also big 
motivators, while some hackers seek to penetrate OT 
defenses for the sheer intellectual challenge.
No matter what the incentive is behind a cyber attack, oil 
and gas enterprises cannot afford to place sole responsibility 
for cybersecurity on IT staff. Doing so can inadvertently 
sub-optimize OT performance and even leave some 
vulnerability gaps open because IT personnel may have a 
limited understanding of OT’s specialized requirements. 
To be sure, IT has a critical role to play in OT cybersecurity. 
Yet OT and operations teams must be fully engaged with 
them in a collaborative fashion to ensure OT requirements 
are met — namely reliability, availability, safety, and 
resiliency. Digitalization and cybersecurity are two sides of 
the same coin. In combination, they support greater asset 
utilization, return on asset equity, and profitability. It’s imperative that leadership visibly supports OT 
cybersecurity measures and investments. HSE and HR teams 
must also be engaged: HSE because of relevant and 
significant potential HSE impacts of adverse cyber events; 
and HR because every employee is a possible entry vector, 
whether they know it or not, and must be vigilant against 
cyber threats, such as email phishing and downloading apps 
containing hidden malicious code. This requires education 
and accountability.
The time to get started closing the blind spot of leaving OT 
cybersecurity solely in IT’s hands is now. Cyber threats are 
only growing in their sophistication and frequency, seeking 
any advantage and vulnerability possible to exploit. It’s not 
just IT’s job anymore to fight the good fight against these 
relentless perpetrators; it’s everyone’s. 
1   Adriana Barrera and Raphael Satter. Hackers demand  
$5 million from Mexico’s Pemex in cyberattack. Reuters. 
November 12, 2019. https://www.reuters.com/article/us-  
mexico-pemex/hackers-demand-5-million-from-mexicos-  
pemex-in-cyberattack-idUSKBN1XN03A 
2   Pemex Is Operating Normally. Pemex. November 11, 2019. https://
www.pemex.com/en/press_room/press_releases/
Paginas/2019-048_national.aspx 
3  2019 Cost of a Data Breach Study. Ponemon Institute.
7
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
15375 Memorial Drive, Suite 700  
Houston, TX 77079  
USA
For more information, please contact  
Web: www.siemens-energy.com/cyber-oil-gas
© Siemens Energy, 2020
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document  
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which  
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may undergo 
modification in the course of further development of the products.  
The requested performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.