Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 2 
 
Munich , March  1, 2022  
Siemens Energy invests in new digital 
platform for on -demand additive 
manufacturing services  
• Joint venture with ZEISS and financial/venture capital investors  
• Extended use of on -demand additive manufacturing for prototypes as along with a  spare -part 
supply  
 
Additive manufacturing (AM) has taken on a major role in the development and production of 
components and spare parts for Siemens Energy in recent years. In addition to setting up its  own 
AM production lines and acqui ring AM service provider Materials Solutions in 2016, the company is 
now expanding its commitment in this area with its investment in the start -up MakerVerse.  
 
MakerVerse is a joint venture initiative between industry -leaders Siemens Energy , ZEISS , and  
financial/venture capital investors , including 9.5 ventures . The new company  combin es cutting -
edge industry expertise with profound knowledge in digital venture -building.  The new venture is 
creating a one -stop fulfillment platform that connects industrial clients with a global network of 
certified additive manufacturing suppliers for projects like design prototypes and producing  on-
demand spare parts. MakerVerse covers the full technological service s pectrum, starting with core 
3D printing/additive manufacturing technologies in the initial launch phase and expanding into 
further relevant on -demand technologies such as CNC and injection molding in the near future.  
 
The platform offers features including  instant quoting, automated manufacturability checks, 
streamlined supplier and quality management, and industrial -level quality assurance. MakerVerse 
will be based in Berlin , with its initial focus on the European market. The p ublic launch of the 
platform is planned for early mid -2022.  
 
Siemens Energy has one the of the largest fleets of metal additive manufacturing printers 
worldwide and is in full serial production of dedicated gas turbine parts : for example, combustion  Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 2 
 
components and turbine vanes . Additive manufacturing is also used to repair highly complex and 
stressed turbine blades and burner tips and to accelerate a variety of development programs . 
 
Siemens Energy’s AM facilities in Berlin (Germany) and Finspang (Sweden) and the Materials 
Solu tions branches in Worcester (UK) and Orlando (U.S.) are primarily using laser -power bed fusion 
technology (L -PBF). Siemens Energy is also constantly looking for new methods and new partners to 
optimize its supply chains of spart parts and specialized tooli ng for its customer base. This is how  an 
industrial -scale  digital platform like MakerVerse  can help extend the range of additively 
manufactured parts to new technologies and materials  like polymers. The goal of reduc ing 
inventories while ensuring fast deli veries is another driver for invest ing in new digital supply chains.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Sabine Sill  
Phone:  +49 173 7196 783  
E-mail: sabine.sill@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press  
 
For further information on Siemens E nergy’s AM services , please see  
http://www.siemens -energy.com/am  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Ene rgy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as 
gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 
50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa 
Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated  one-sixth 
of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 
91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €28.5  billion in fiscal year 2021. 
www.siemens -energy.com . 