 
 
 Page  1 of 3  Orlando, October 01, 2020  
Siemens Energy announces new AI -
driven cybersecurity monitor and 
detection service for the energy 
industry  
• MDR, powered by Eos.ii ™, helps secure the energy transition for small 
and medium -sized energy companies from the increasing threat of 
cyberattacks  
• The service’s Eos.ii  technology platform and OT security operations 
center monitors and dete cts potential cyberthreats in real -time  
 
Siemens Energy today announced a new artificial intelligence (AI) -based 
industrial cybersecurity service, Managed Detection and Response (MDR),  
powered by Eos.ii, to help small and medium -sized energy companies 
defend critical infrast ructure against cyberattacks. MDR’s technology 
platform, Eos.ii, leverages AI and machine learning methodologies to 
gather and model real -time energy asset intelligence . This allows 
Siemens Energy’s cybersecurity experts to monitor, detect and uncover 
attacks before they execute. Armed with actionable insights from MDR’s 
technology platform, Siemens Energy’s cybersecurity experts implement 
precise defense measures in the company’s  state -of-the-art operational 
technology -security operations center (OT -SOC) t o defend power 
generation, oil and gas, renewable energy, and transmission and 
distribution customers.  
 
“As the digital revolution transforms the energy industry , industrial 
operating environments are becoming increasingly vulnerable to 
cyberattacks ,” sai d Leo Simonovich, Head of Industrial Cybersecurity at 
Siemens Energy.  “MDR , powered by Eos.ii,  is the first AI -driven Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Stacia Licona  
Phone: +1 (281) 721 -3402  
E-mail: 
stacia.licona@siemens.com   
 
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 M unich  
Germany  
Page  2 of 3  cybersecurity monitoring solution to proactively detect and prevent 
cyberattacks targeting critical infrastructure  for all operating 
envir onments before attackers strike .”    
 
With the industrial cybersecurity expertise and proprietary detection 
technologies  from Siemens Energy,  MDR is able to collect raw 
information technology (IT)  and operational technology ( OT) data from 
across a n industrial operating environment, and then translate – and 
contextualize – it in real time. This provides a unified picture of 
anomalous behavior for defenders with actionable insights to stop 
attacks. Siemens Energy’s MDR  system goes beyond conventional 
monitoring by achieving a deeper understanding of how digital systems 
relate to the real world. With its unified OT and IT data stream, MDR’ s 
Eos.ii technology platform uses AI and digital twin technology to 
compare billions of real -time data points against a correctly function ing 
asset. This provides context for Siemen s Energy’s a nalysts to determine 
not only which events are abnormal , but which are consequential . The 
technical achievement of unified data streams and machine learning 
make an unprecedented platform for targeted, in -depth analysis.  
 
Siemens  Energy’s  MDR solution address es the energy industry’s need for 
more sophisticated solutions to put security experts ahead of attackers  as 
each digitally connected energy asset represent s a new, possible 
vulnerability for attackers to strike. Energy companies and utilities are 
increasingly becoming a prime target for cyberattacks by state and non -
state actors launching sophisticated scatter shot, sleeper strike and 
ransomware attacks  against energy and critical infrastructure in broader 
geo-political or adversarial conflict s. 
 
Last year , the Ponemon Institute and Siemens Energy conducted a joint 
study  surveying global utilities to assess the industry’s readiness to 
address the growing threat of cyberattacks. The study found that 64% of 
respondents said that sophisticated attacks are a top challenge and 54%  
of those surveyed expect ed an attack on critical infrastructure in the next 
12 months. Additionally, 25% of respondent s reported  being impacted by 
mega -attacks with expertise developed by nation -state actors.   
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 M unich  
Germany  
Page  3 of 3   
This press release and a press picture / pr ess pictures / further material is 
available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
 
Follow us on Twitter at: https://sie.ag/30lF9xi  
Follow us on LinkedIn at: https://www.linkedin.com/showcase/siemens -
energy/   
 
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The 
company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus 
supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, 
solutions and service s, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – 
from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional 
and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants 
operated with hydrog en, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent 
of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader 
for renewable energies . An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is 
based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 91,000 people 
worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €29 billion in 
fiscal year 2019. www.siemens -energy.com . 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 M unich  
Germany  