Decarbonization
pathways for
gas turbines
White paper
siemens-energy.com
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
Foreword
We have a long history with gas turbines that goes all the
way back to the 1940s. In 1961, our VM 80 unit at the
Obersendling combined heat and power plant in Munich
set a record as the world’s highest performance single-shaft
gas turbine. In the decades that followed we continued to
make strides in gas turbine technology – pioneering efficient
and reliable turbines for power generation, and enabling
widespread electrification of communities around the world.
Today, our portfolio includes world-class gas turbines in the
power range from 2 to 593 MW, with diverse applications
such as distributed power generation, mechanical drive units
for compressor stations on gas pipelines, combined cycle
power plants, and combined heat and power units that are
essential to energy systems.
On the way to a fully decarbonized world, the energy land-
scape will continue to rely on gas turbines to provide unin-
terrupted power and compensate for the intermittency of
renewables. While modern, highly efficient and flexible com-
bined cycle gas power plants are increasingly substituting
coal power plants (reducing CO 2emissions by up to 65%
already), we need to take further steps to decarbonize gas
turbines in the near- to mid-future. Several technologies are
either available in the market or being developed, from car-
bon capture, utilization and storage to the use of sustainable
fuels such as hydrogen, biofuels or hydrogen derivatives.At Siemens Energy, we are working together with our cus-
tomers to find new ways to meet the demands of today,
while future-proofing our turbines for tomorrow. Major suc-
cesses have already been achieved in the form of several
engine tests firing sustainable fuels. In 2023, we had a sig-
nificant milestone for hydrogen-capable turbines. Together
with the HYFLEXPOWER consortium, a team of Siemens En-
ergy experts, industry, and university partners, we celebrated
the successful test of an SGT-400 gas turbine powered by
100% green hydrogen. We have also carried out successful
tests with other sustainable fuels such as ammonia, HVO and
methanol.
We also know that there is so much more that can be done.
And that is exactly what we aim to explore in this white pa-
per, which outlines the role of decarbonized gas turbines
in a future energy landscape with increased demand for re-
newables, load balancing and other grid services. Several
options are available, so the route to decarbonization is not
one, but many different paths, with local conditions playing
a big role in answering the question of which technology will
prevail at which site. In all cases, Siemens Energy is dedicated
to providing solutions and technologies that will realize the
shared objective of protecting our planet for the generations
to come.
Karim Amin Frida Björneld
Member of the Executive Board and Vice President of Product Management
EVP Gas Services, Siemens Energy Siemens Energy, Gas Services
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 2
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
Executive summary
Page 4
Abbreviations
Page 4
The role of gas turbines in the future energy landscape
Page 5 01
Sustainable gaseous fuels
Page 8 02
Sustainable liquid fuels
Page 10 03
Carbon capture technologies
Page 13 04
Outlook
Page 16 05
References
Page 16
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 3
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
Executive summary
A rapid growth of renewable energy has occurred in recent
years that must accelerate even more in future to meet the
rising demand for energy while also achieving global targets
for reducing carbon emissions. The two primary sources of
renewable energy, wind and solar, are both intermittent. This
creates a residual load gap, additional pressure on ancillary
grid services, and the risk of a shortfall of power to run heat
pumps and electric furnaces. Seasonal fluctuations and the
increasing frequency and duration of extreme weather events
will make the situation more acute. Therefore, the phasing
out of unabated fossil power plants must coincide with the
introduction of flexible, dispatchable (and crucially sustain-
able) power to complement wind and solar.
Gas turbines are an integral part of the energy system today
and will continue to be tomorrow. They are characterized
by low CAPEX, high efficiency (e.g. in combined cycle ap-
plications), long operating life, and responsiveness to large
changes of grid demand. In combined heat and power ap-
plications they also provide essential cover for heat demand
especially during winter.
The decarbonization of gas turbines can be achieved in vari-
ous different ways. Among the potential ‘drop-in’ sustainable
fuel options are:
• ◦Hydrogen: (obtained via electrolysis) green hydrogen
using renewable energy, pink hydrogen using nuclear
energy; or (processes that include carbon capture) blue
hydrogen derived from natural gas via steam-methane
reforming, turquoise hydrogen via methane pyrolysis.
• ◦Synthetic fuels derived from sustainable hydrogen, e.g.
e-methanol and e-ammonia. Of these, hydrocarbon-based
e-fuels such as methanol must use CO 2from a sustainable
carbon source.
• ◦Fuels from a biogenic source, such as biodiesels (HVO,
FAME), bio-methanol, bio-ethanol, etc. A growing supply
base for sustainable aviation fuel from biogenic sources
may also present some opportunities for land based gas
turbine applications.
Depending on factors such as the requirement for combustor
design modifications, fuel costs, supply volumes, and infras-
tructure for transport and storage, these fuels may be most
attractive either as a primary or backup fuel. Sustainable hy-
drogen has emerged as a frontrunner for gas turbine appli-
cations in certain regions, e.g. in the context of power-to-X
from renewable energy. Siemens Energy recently demon-
strated dry low emissions combustion of 100% green hydro-
gen obtained from electrolysis, using an SGT-400 gas turbine.
The next steps will include implementation of the technology
for hydrogen onto larger frames such as SGT-9000HL.
Ammonia has high potential as a carbon-free energy vec-
tor (hydrogen carrier) by virtue of its energy density, ease of
storage, mature handling practices and supply chain. Efficientprocesses must be developed for the recovery of hydrogen
from ammonia, since the cost and footprint of cracker units
have significant impacts on feasibility. Ongoing research by
Siemens Energy in collaboration with our academic partners
is seeking to advance the state of the art for gas turbine com-
bustion of ammonia in its different forms: fully cracked, par-
tially cracked, and direct ammonia combustion.
Sustainable methanol (e-methanol and bio-methanol) also
has an important role in the future energy landscape. It is an
intermediate product of other e-fuel production processes,
yielding cost and availability benefits. There are diverse appli-
cations for gas turbines burning liquid methanol, e.g. in the
marine industry; and pre-vaporized (gaseous) methanol.
The integration of carbon capture with gas turbine plants
can be achieved via pre-combustion capture, oxyfuel firing,
or post combustion capture (absorption and adsorption).
Relatively low CO 2concentrations in gas turbine exhausts
present a challenge for post combustion capture that may
be addressed by exhaust gas recirculation, possibly including
oxygen injection, and/or development of novel technolo-
gies such as electro-swing absorption. As for the other decar-
bonization pathways, techno-economic factors (e.g. the plant
efficiency penalty due to steam consumption) will determine
how widely carbon capture is adopted.
Abbreviations
CAPEX Capital Expenditure
CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine
CC(U)S Carbon Capture (Utilization) and Storage
CHP Combined Heat and Power
DAC Direct Air Capture
DCC Direct Contact Cooler
DLE Dry Low Emissions
DME Dimethyl Ether
DSM Demand Side Management
EGR Exhaust Gas Recirculation
FAME Fatty Acid Methyl Ester
GHG Greenhouse Gases
GWP Global Warming Potential
HPC Hot Potassium Carbonate
HRSG Heat Recovery Steam Generator
HVDC High Voltage Direct Current
HVO Hydrotreated Vegetable Oil
KVV Kraft- och Värmeverk (CHP plant)
LCOE Levelized Cost of Electricity
OPEX Operational Expenditure
PCC Post Combustion Capture
RES Renewable Energy Sources
RNG Renewable Natural Gas
SAF Sustainable Aviation Fuel
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 4
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
1 The role of gas turbines in the future energy
landscape
1.1 Introduction
Tackling global warming is one of the most important and ur-
gent challenges for society today. The significant increase in
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions over the last two centuries
has already increased global temperatures since the pre-
industrial era by around 1.1°C,[1]with the rate of change of
temperature being faster than in any other historical period.
If global warming continues to increase as predicted, e.g. up
to 2.9°C above pre-industrial levels by the end of the cen-
tury compared to the internationally agreed limit of 1.5°C,
then there will be devastating consequences due to extreme
weather events, rising sea levels, etc. The economies of
countries will also be affected – costs associated with deal-
ing with irreversible climate change will most likely exceed
the costs required to limit it in the first place.
Currently carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions from fossil fu-
els and industry contribute 67% of GHG emissions based
on 100-year global warming potentials (GWP).[2]Of these,
around 40% of CO 2emissions are due to the power sector
and around 25% due to heating (both for buildings and pro-
cess heat).
“We know it is still possible to make
the 1.5 degree limit a reality. It re-
quires tearing out the poisoned root
of the climate crisis: fossil fuels.
And it demands a just, equitable re-
newables transition.”
António Guterres, Secretary-General of the UN
Statements like the one above reflect increasing public
awareness about the imminent threat of climate change and
the need for a rapid global transition to renewable energy
sources (RES).
This white paper examines the future expansion of RES and
its impact on the ‘energy trilemma’ faced by policymakers:
sustainability, security of supply, and affordability. Thanks to
their inherent fuel flexibility, gas turbines will play a central
role in the energy transition,[3]whether firing biogenic and
synthetic fuels, completely carbon-free fuels, or fossil fuels
with carbon capture utilization and storage (CCUS).
As described in the following sections, technology de-
velopment at Siemens Energy is ongoing on many dif-
ferent fronts that represent the most promising routes to
decarbonization.[4]1.2 Expansion of renewables
The two most attractive RES technologies, which are experi-
encing the highest growth – wind and solar – have the dis-
advantage of being intermittent. Consequently, wholesale
electricity markets must change to manage intermittency on
an increased scale.[5]Furthermore, in an energy system that
is dominated by RES, closing the residual load gap with sus-
tainable power sources is a fundamental requirement.
Closing the residual load gap
Today the residual load is covered by fossil power plants (coal
and gas), often combined with run-of-river hydro and nuclear
power as baseload capacity. In future, with widespread adop-
tion of RES, the residual load will be characterized by strong
seasonal fluctuations of RES power supply, and persistent
residual load events lasting up to several weeks. An example
of the latter occurred in Germany in 2017,[6]when there was
an almost total lack of power generated by wind and solar
for 4 weeks (Figure 1). In a predicted future scenario having
86% RES share the same weather conditions would still yield
large and fluctuating residual load (Figure 2). Due to climate
change, longer and more frequent weather extremes are ex-
pected so that residual load events between 4 and 6 weeks
will have to be considered.[7]
Importing electricity from neighboring countries is an option
in some regions (where interconnections exist). However,
the meteorological conditions that cause residual load events
are likely to affect neighboring countries at the same time.
While HVDC connections over long distances (>1500 km)
may alleviate the issue, this will not be sufficient – as demon-
strated by modelling that assumed unlimited, direct and loss-
less power exchange between EU countries.[8]
Demand Side Management (DSM) is an effective way to re-
duce the load gap but is not yet deployed at significant scale.
This method requires both technical pre-conditions and ef-
fective price signals to trigger a behavioural change of power
consumers. DSM applies most easily to situations that are not
time-critical, and it will not solve the problem of residual load
events beyond 24 hours or the seasonality of RES production.
Another option to cover the residual load is energy storage
over different timescales: seconds (flywheels and super-
capacitors); hours (batteries); or days (pumped hydro and
compressed air energy storage). Energy storage in batteries
and pumped hydro is neither technically nor economically
feasible to cover longer periods of load deficits. Hence de-
carbonized, efficient and flexible gas turbines that can utilize
chemical storage in the form of power-to-X are a critical part
of the future energy system, along with RES.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 5
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
Power (GWh/h)
050100150
15-Jan-17 18-Jan-17 21-Jan-17 24-Jan-17 27-Jan-17 30-Jan-17 02-Feb-17 05-Feb-17 08-Feb-17 11-Feb-17 14-Feb-17Total Solar Wind Wind Hydro Biomass Conventional
Demand (Offshore) (Onshore) Power Plants
Figure 1 Power generation and consumption in Germany, January to February 2017.[6]
Power (GWh/h)
050100150200
15-Jan 18-Jan 21-Jan 24-Jan 27-Jan 30-Jan 02-Feb 05-Feb 08-Feb 11-Feb 14-FebTotal Solar Wind Wind Hydro Biomass Residual
Demand (Offshore) (Onshore) Load
Future power generation and consumption assuming 86% renewables share (cf. Figure 1).[6]Figure 2
Ancillary grid services
Grid services that ensure the safe, stable distribution of elec-
tricity are: reactive power control; frequency and voltage
control; provision of inertia and short circuit power; and black
start capability. Today nearly all of these are provided by cen-
tralized generation facilities (coal, gas, hydro and nuclear)
that have large synchronous generators. With the ongoing
expansion of RES in the form of wind power (mostly as non-
direct drive with frequency inverters) and solar (PV modules),
these centralized units are being retired. At times of the year
when wind and solar will meet the total power demand the
remaining centralized generation assets may not always be
synchronized with the grid.
Modern wind turbines and PV modules cannot provide all an-
cillary grid services due to their technical design features. The
importance of this issue to the smooth operation of future
electricity grids is compounded by changes on the demand
side that are expected to increase the necessity for robust
ancillary services: increased number of static frequency con-verters, fewer synchronous motors connected to the grid, and
a massive increase of arc furnaces in industry that will make
the load side more unstable.
Batteries connected to the grid (assuming that they are suf-
ficiently charged, but not to full capacity, as you still need to
allow absorption of sudden excess power) can help to pro-
vide some but not all of the ancillary services. Therefore, the
availability of large synchronous generators connected to the
grid will continue to be mandatory. This can happen either
by provision of dedicated synchronous condensers or via self-
synchronizing clutches between gas/steam turbines and their
generators, allowing gas turbine power plants to stay con-
nected to the grid even when there is no residual load and
the turbine is not in operation.
Residual heat demand
In an energy system with a large share of intermittent RES,
certain periods will experience a shortfall of power to run
heat pumps and electric furnaces, e.g. due to the concur-
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 6
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
rence of residual load and residual heat events. This is espe-
cially critical in winter time in regions that have the highest
demand for heating of buildings, usually in latitudes above
35°. During such periods gas turbines and combined heat
and power (CHP) plants can fill the gaps. By utilizing heat
storage in the form of hot water, power and heat can be de-
coupled. Then CHP plants may follow the electricity market –
providing residual load – while also supplying district heating
networks and industrial processes. The energy utilization rate
of CHP plants is very high, reaching up to 90%, making them
the most attractive way to cover residual heat demand.
1.3 Decarbonization of
gas turbines
In order to achieve either full decarbonization or carbon
neutrality of gas turbines, two main transformation routes
appear possible: operation with a decarbonized or carbon-
neutral fuel (called ‘sustainable fuel’ throughout this paper);
or continued operation with fossil fuel, e.g. natural gas, but
coupled to a form of CCUS.
As shown in Figure 3, sustainable fuels can be gaseous or
liquid biofuels, hydrogen (H 2), or H 2derivatives such as e-
ammonia (NH 3) produced from sustainable hydrogen via
the Haber–Bosch process. Other e-fuels include synthetic
hydrocarbons that are produced from H 2and sustainable
CO2, where the CO 2is obtained e.g. from direct air capture
(DAC) or CCS at a biomass power plant.Since many sectors are currently undergoing rapid change
the development of decarbonized gas turbines offers new op-
portunities. For example, the marine industry has ambitious
targets for the decarbonization of international shipping[9]
and is considering the same candidate fuels as in Figure 3. In
this case electric propulsion for marine applications powered
by a combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) can be competitive
with reciprocating IC engines.
T echno-economic factors
Fuels that have properties unlike those of natural gas or
diesel traditionally fired by gas turbines in the power sector
present a technical challenge for combustion systems. More-
over, the feasibility of the different methods of decarboniza-
tion and the selection of the most beneficial option depend
on specific project conditions, such as:
• ◦Availability and costs of local / regional RES
• ◦Legislative requirements and incentives for full or partial
decarbonization
• ◦Size of the power plant and its capacity factor (hours of
operation per year)
• ◦Connection to an H 2gas network, and H 2fuel costs
• ◦Availability and cost of natural gas for either blue H 2pro-
duction or CCS
• ◦On-site storage capacity for primary and secondary fuels
• ◦Proximity to CO 2storage locations for CCS
Renewable
Energy
Natural Gas
Hydrogen
Green H 2(with CCS)
Blue H 2
Hydrogen
derivatives
•e-ammonia
•e-methanol
•other e-fuels
Biofuels
•HVO / FAME
•bio-methanol
•bio-ethanol
Liquid transport
and storage
Liquid transport
and storage
Pipeline transport
Pipeline transport
H2recovery
(cracking)
Storage
CCUS
CO2capture
100% H Gas T urbine2
100% H2
Sustainable Fuels
in Gas T urbines
•e-fuels & biofuels
•NH3/(H2+N2)
Gas T urbine
Power Plant
Figure 3 Decarbonizing residual load in an RES-based energy system.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 7
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
Water
Renewable
Energy from Grid
Green Energy
to Grid
Heat RecoveryElectrolyzer Compressor Storage
Natural GasSGT-400
(up to 100% H 2)Green H 2
12 MW
@full loade
20 MW
@full loadth
Figure 4 Power-to-H 2-to-power, as studied by the HYFLEXPOWER consortium.[11]
2 Sustainable gaseous fuels
2.1 Hydrogen
In recent years hydrogen has emerged as a leading candidate
for decarbonization of the power sector. Gas turbine manu-
facturers have committed to developing 100% H 2capability
by 2030.[10]Several of them, including Siemens Energy, are
planning to release H 2-capable frames before this date. The
main technical barriers that must be overcome are associated
with the unique combustion characteristics of H 2such as its
lower ignition energy, significantly higher flame speed, and
wider flammability limits compared to natural gas.
Sustainable hydrogen can be produced from a variety of
sources, including RES and nuclear energy via electrolysis
(green and pink H 2, respectively); or from natural gas with
CCS using steam-methane reforming (blue H 2) or pyrolysis
(turquoise H 2).
Green hydrogen demonstration
An integrated industrial RES power-to-H 2-to-power solution
was demonstrated at a cogeneration plant by the HYFLEX-
POWER project.[11]The project consortium led by Siemens En-
ergy included ENGIE, Centrax and others and was supported
by the EU Horizon 2020 programme. Siemens Energy sup-
plied the electrolyzer for green H 2production and developeddry low emissions (DLE) combustion technology for the SGT-
400 gas turbine (Figures 4and5). Engine tests carried out
at the customer site in Saillat-sur-Vienne in France (Figure 6)
successfully demonstrated operation with 100% H 2, natural
gas and any blends thereof – a world first for an industrial gas
turbine of this size (>10 MW).
Siemens Energy is accelerating the development of gas tur-
bine technology for 100% H 2firing (including on larger,
Figure 5 Installation of SGT-400 core engine at the HYFLEXPOWER
demonstration plant in Saillat-sur-Vienne in France.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 8
Figure 6 Cogeneration plant at Smurfit Kappa’s paper mill, Saillat-
sur-Vienne, where 100% H 2operation was demonstrated.
heavy duty frames) based on the findings of the engine
demonstration test. For detailed information on H 2com-
bustion in gas turbines please refer to the white paper en-
titled ‘Hydrogen power and heat with Siemens Energy gas
turbines’, available via the Siemens Energy website.[12]
Infrastructure and costs
For most applications, green H 2production will be located
close to RES and transported (via gas pipelines) to power
plants that are nearby centres of consumption, i.e. large
cities and industrial complexes. Increased H 2production vol-
umes are achieved when electrolysis is carried out close RES
sites. Moreover, it is usually cheaper to transport molecules
than electrons: a gas pipeline can transport the equiva-
lent of up to 10 high voltage transmission lines, with lower
losses.[13]Due to the intermittency of RES and residual load
balancing requirements (see Section 1), large scale storage of
compressed H 2, e.g. in salt caverns, is likely to be needed.
The round trip efficiency from RES power-to-H 2-to-power is
around 35–40% for CCGT even under favourable conditions.
This is reflected by the LCOE for green H 2which is generally
higher than for blue H 2produced from natural gas with CCS.
Despite these higher costs, the combination of abundant
RES plus hydrogen power plants to cover the residual load
is expected to yield the most economically attractive solu-
tion in many regions. The LCOE for green H 2compared to
other power sources will inevitably decrease as technological
advancements, economies of scale, and supportive policies
(e.g. carbon taxes) drive down production costs. Studies
suggest that green H 2could become cost-competitive with
natural gas in the 2040s or ’50s, depending on the region.
2.2 Biogas
Biogas is the generic term for product gases from anaerobic
digestion of organic matter. Common sources are landfills,waste-water treatment plants and purpose-built biodigesters
for ‘wet’ agricultural wastes such as crop residues and animal
manure. Depending on the composition of the feedstock,
biogas is typically a blend of 40–75% vol. methane (CH 4)
with the remainder consisting of CO 2and small amounts
of other gases and contaminants such as H 2S or siloxanes.
Lower Heating Values (LHV) in the range 16–30 MJ/m3are
suitable for power generation and cogeneration, with most
applications being for small to medium size gas turbines
(<50 MW). Operational experience includes SGT-300 and
SGT-400 firing biogas using DLE combustors, which yielded
similar (or lower) NO xemissions than natural gas. Larger
frames such as SGT-800 have been proven to operate on raw
natural gas having high N 2and CO 2content similar to biogas.
There are often incentives promoting the use of biogas as
this avoids emissions of CO 2and CH 4that would otherwise
occur due to natural decomposition of organic matter. Costs
include pre-processing of the gas, e.g. removal of contam-
inants or blending of biogas with other fuels to raise the
Wobbe Index, and sometimes also costs for transport of
biomass to the site.
2.3 Renewable natural gas
Renewable Natural Gas (RNG), also known as bio-methane, is
pipeline quality natural gas that is well suited to existing gas
turbine combustion systems. RNG can be produced either by
removing CO 2from biogas or by gasifying ‘dry’ biomass such
as wood wastes to create H 2and CO followed by a methana-
tion step.
Due to the additional processing step(s) required for RNG
compared to biogas its applications are largely cost-driven.
Feeding RNG into the natural gas distribution network may
attract tax breaks and incentives such as Renewable Cer-
tificates. In other cases RNG has a higher value when com-
pressed or liquefied, e.g. as a fuel for vehicles.
2.4 Synthetic methane
Synthetic methane, or e-methane, is produced from metha-
nation of H 2and CO 2, and can be burned by gas turbines
without design changes. The lowest carbon footprint corre-
sponds to green H 2and CO 2captured from biogenic sources
or DAC. Alternatively, a gas turbine power plant using e-
methane produced from green H 2and a sustainable source
of CO 2together with CCS (see Section 4) would operate in a
carbon negative manner.
Most applications for e-methane are expected to be in the
chemical processing industry, e.g. as a feedstock for olefin
production. Gas turbine power plants are more likely to
use either green H 2or an e-fuel that is relatively easier and
cheaper to synthesize and transport such as methanol (see
Section 3.3).
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 9
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
3 Sustainable liquid fuels
3.1 Biodiesels
Biodiesels, sometimes referred to as renewable diesels, have
several advantages as fuels for gas turbines:
• ◦Similar characteristics to conventional diesel, which has
been used for decades – typically as a backup fuel for nat-
ural gas fired GTs.
• ◦Infrastructure for transport and storage is well estab-
lished. Many biodiesels are suitable for long term storage.
Whilst the EU and US are leading producers of biodiesels,
high demand from other sectors (e.g. the automotive sec-
tor) is expected to limit availability for the energy sector, so
that in many cases backup power plants represent the most
suitable applications.
Hydrotreated vegetable oil
Hydrotreated Vegetable Oil (HVO) is produced from vegetable
oils and animal fats, e.g. pine oil, slaughter waste and cook-
ing oil. These different feedstocks provide many sustainable
sourcing options for HVO (more than other biofuels). The
GHG savings are significant: 90–93% compared to the refer-
ence value of 83.8 g CO 2e/MJ for fossil fuel, depending on
the source.[14]The process of hydrogenation yields a high
quality biodiesel having prop-
SGT-800 HVO100 demonstration at Göteborg
Energi’s Rya KVV (CHP) facility, 2021.[15]Figure 7erties suitable for gas turbine
combustion. Moreover, it is
suitable for handling and stor-
age also in colder climates for
long periods.
Siemens Energy carried out
demonstration tests at the Rya
CHP plant in Gothenburg (Fig-
ure7) and at a customer site
in Stockholm.[15]Following
the successful tests, HVO100
was recently released as an ap-
proved fuel for the SGT-800 gas
turbine.
Fatty acid methyl esters
Fatty Acid Methyl Esters (FAME) produced from vegetable
oils, e.g. rapeseed or soybean, are the second most available
biofuel after bioethanol. The quality of FAME depends on
the feedstock and cleaning/refining processes. Storability is
generally more limited than conventional diesel and HVO.
Applications for FAME will probably depend on the ability to
cope with alkali metal contaminants, which can be difficult
for gas turbine combustion systems.Fischer-T ropsch diesel
Fischer-Tropsch (FT) diesel and other advanced fuels can
be produced by converting syngas obtained from biomass
waste, or from H 2and a sustainable carbon source, into a
raw hydrocarbon followed by refining. The biomass-to-liquid
process is a promising technique to provide renewable alter-
natives for hard-to-decarbonize sectors. The fuel properties of
FT diesel are comparable with conventional diesel and HVO,
and hence suitable for combustion in gas turbines.
3.2 Ammonia
Ammonia (NH 3) can easily be liquefied by pressurising to
10 bar at 25°C, or by cooling to -33°C. Consequently, it has
advantages as an energy vector in a hydrogen economy:
• ◦Energy density. Liquid ammonia has a higher energy den-
sity than gaseous hydrogen, making it more practical for
storage and transportation.
• ◦Lower flammability. Ammonia has a higher ignition tem-
perature and a relatively narrow flammability range com-
pared to many fuels, which reduces its explosion risk.
• ◦Established technology. Synthetic ammonia is produced
at scale for fertilizer, urea, and other applications. It has a
proven distribution network and good safety record.
The state of the art for NH 3
combustion in GTs is not ad-
vanced. Fuel properties such
as the laminar flame speed
of ammonia (max. 7 cm/s)
are very different from natu-
ral gas (37 cm/s). Additional
key difficulties like high NO x
emissions generated due to
fuel-bound nitrogen are high-
lighted by rig tests performed
by Siemens Energy and SIN-
TEF with (gaseous) CH 4/ NH 3
blends.[16]. Emissions of both
N2O, which is a very potent
greenhouse gas (GHG factor
of 270), and unburnt NH 3
pose challenges for combus-
tion technology and exhaust aftertreatment. Suitable EHS
provisions must be in place to prevent exposure to lethal
concentrations of ammonia, e.g. as low as 5000 ppm for 5
minutes.[17]
Cracked ammonia
Decomposition of NH 3into N 2and H 2represents a promising
route to overcoming the difficulties associated with ammonia
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 10
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
combustion, i.e. using hydrogen as a reactivity promoter. Full
or partial cracking of ammonia can be achieved by:
• ◦Catalytic cracking, typically using ruthenium or supported
metal catalysts like nickel on alumina, at temperatures
ranging from 400°C to 900°C.
• ◦Thermal cracking, e.g. in the range 1200°C to 2000°C,
where heat is used to break chemical bonds within the
NH3molecules.
Plant footprint, CAPEX and OPEX are important factors that
will influence decision-making. Siemens Energy is partnering
with ammonia cracking licensing companies on the assess-
ment of different models for plant operation and cracker in-
tegration, e.g. utilization of exhaust heat, to minimize LCOE.
Co-firing with cracked NH 3(75% H 2, 25% N 2by volume) is al-
ready a reality for SGT-800 using up to 50:50 blends of fully
cracked NH 3and natural gas.
Techno-economic factors affecting cracked ammonia appli-
cations vary between sites, including: availability of land;
proximity to populated areas, which may dictate local EHS
considerations with respect to unburnt NH 3; and regional
strategies for the future hydrogen economy. For example,
a country like Germany that is unable to meet all of its de-
mand for power from RES can be expected to use hydrogen
that is imported in the form of ammonia. Major EU shipping
terminals (Rotterdam, Hamburg, etc.) are attractive sites for
centralized, near-complete cracking of NH 3feeding into a
hydrogen pipeline network. In
this case, gas turbines having
SGT-A20 bio-methanol demonstration test at RWG’s
Aberdeen test facility.Figure 8DLE technology for 100% H 2
(see Section 2.1) present a so-
lution for the provision of resid-
ual load and grid services. On
the other hand, as the combus-
tion technology for NH 3and
NH3/(H2+N2) blends becomes
more mature, decentralized,
partial cracking can be consid-
ered for power stations located
nearby the importation hubs –
potentially using relatively little
H2as a reactivity promoter for
GTs that burn higher concen-
trations of NH 3.
Roadmap for ammonia combustion
Due to its inherent advantages as an energy vector, ammonia
combustion is an active area of research in academia and
industry. Siemens Energy is participating in several stud-
ies aimed at improving fundamental understanding of the
topic.[18]The difficulties are non-trivial: detailed experimental
data, e.g. in-flame laser diagnostic measurements, are lack-
ing for combustion of NH 3or NH 3/(H2+N2) blends at engine-
relevant operating pressures >10 bar; and further work is
needed to develop robust chemical kinetic mechanisms for
CFD models. Theoretical studies indicate that staged com-
bustion with relatively long residence times may yield im-provements of combustor performance on NH 3and partially
cracked NH 3/(H2+N2).[19]Realization of the predicted combus-
tion capabilities will require collaborative efforts – possibly
over several years – between Siemens Energy, plant opera-
tors, suppliers of cracker technology, exhaust aftertreatment
vendors, academia, and governments.
3.3 Methanol
Methanol (CH 3OH) is primarily used as a feedstock for the
chemical industry. Its main source today is coal- and natu-
ral gas derived syngas but there is increasing demand for
sustainable methanol in the form of bio-methanol (from
biomass), or e-methanol produced from green/blue hydrogen
and sustainable carbon dioxide. The advantages of sustain-
able methanol include:
• ◦Energy density. Liquid methanol has a higher energy den-
sity than gaseous hydrogen.
• ◦Diversity of source feedstock, e.g. biomass and waste.
• ◦Increasing availability as other sectors (international ship-
ping etc.) shift to e-methanol for decarbonization.
• ◦Compatibility with existing infrastructure: storage tanks,
pipelines, and fueling stations.
• ◦Long term storage without degradation in tanks with inert
gas padding.
Many different applications
are possible, from base load
or as a secondary fuel for GTs,
to island power plants, backup
power for data centers, or re-
mote industrial operations
such as mining. Methanol is
also gaining traction in the
marine industry, with Maersk
recently announcing the pur-
chase of several methanol-
fueled vessels.[20]
While relatively few gas tur-
bine operators are likely to
burn liquid methanol directly,
there is also the possibility of
using waste heat for pre-
vaporization, e.g. for GTs that do not have liquid fuel sys-
tems. Alternatively, methanol can be reformed into hydrogen
via steam-methanol reforming, similar to steam-methane
reforming.
Bio-methanol demonstration test
A collaboration between the Net Zero Technology Centre,
Siemens Energy and RWG successfully demonstrated bio-
methanol firing on an SGT-A20 gas turbine in Aberdeen, UK
(Figure 8).[21]Since methanol has roughly half the calorific
value of diesel on a volumetric basis, appropriately up-sized
fuel injectors, fuel pumps etc. were used.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 11
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
Exit NO x
Shaft Speed
(a)80% reduced
NO xemissionsPower
Exhaust T emperature
(b)10% increased
powerkerosene
bio-methanol
kerosene
bio-methanol
Figure 9 SGT-A20 bio-methanol demonstration test results.
Various operating modes were tested including start-up and
shutdown, and transient operation. Tests in steady state
yielded NO xemissions reductions of up to 80% for methanol
compared to kerosene (Figure 9(a)), with similar emissions
reductions being expected relative to diesel. The power boost
of 10% (Figure 9(b)) is consistent with the increased exhaust
mass flow associated with higher fuel flow and the change in
exhaust gas composition. Further work will extrapolate the
findings of the tests onto other frames.
T echno-economic factors
The cost of sustainable methanol is significantly higher than
conventionally manufactured grey methanol (from fossil
sources). Predicted future costs of e-methanol are linked to
the cost of sustainable hydrogen and the cost of carbon feed-
stock used for methanol synthesis, which can vary between
biogenic and DAC sources.
The net carbon reduction associated with bio-methanol com-
bustion in gas turbines depends on the characteristics of the
feedstock used. Similarly, the analysis of e-methanol must
consider the source of CO 2used for synthesis – if it is from
CCUS at fossil power plants (rather than a biomass or DAC
plant) or industrial sites then this only gives a ‘second life’
to the carbon atoms that are eventually emitted, resulting
in much lower effective carbon reduction. In this scenario,
the re-use of fossil fuel derived CO 2with final emission to the
atmosphere is not considered sustainable in the long term.
3.4 Ethanol
Bioethanol is currently the most widely available biofuel and
can be produced from several different feedstocks – typically
sugarcane in tropical climates (India, Brazil and Colombia);
and corn in other areas such as China, the EU, and US.[22]These are classed as first generation biofuels and are not usu-
ally considered sustainable by regulators due to competition
with food production. Second generation bioethanol is pro-
duced from non-edible lignocellulosic biomass, e.g. residues
from forest management or food crop production, or whole
plant biomass harvested on non-arable land.
Global demand for ethanol is largely driven by government
policies about gasoline-ethanol fuel blends for vehicles,
whereas in the long term electrification of the transport sec-
tor could increase the availability for gas turbine applications.
The e-fuel route for the production of ethanol is unlikely to
become significant for gas turbines, as e-methanol is easier
to synthesize. In general, since many e-fuel production routes
come via syngas or methanol it will often be cheaper to use
methanol than the other ‘drop-in’ e-fuels.
3.5 Sustainable aviation fuel
It is estimated that Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF, a kero-
sene-type hydrocarbon) could contribute 65% of the emis-
sions reductions needed for aviation to reach net zero by
2050.[23]SAF, similar to conventional gray kerosene, is usu-
ally well suited to combustion in gas turbines. Today almost
all SAF produced comes from biogenic sources, which are
more mature and cost effective compared to SAF produced as
an e-fuel. Nevertheless, demand is limited by the fuel costs
which are 3–4 times higher than conventional jet fuel.[24]
Certification of SAF for aero engines is ongoing and increas-
ing availability is anticipated for aviation. However, the
amount of SAF available for the power sector will probably
remain relatively low. In this case backup power plants repre-
sent the most likely gas turbine applications.
3.6 Dimethyl ether
Dimethyl ether (DME) and its derivatives are clean-burning,
non-toxic, synthetic gases that can be produced from syn-
gas and methanol (as for the other e-fuels described above)
and are most commonly used as aerosol propellant and in
the chemical industry today. While gaseous under atmo-
spheric conditions, storage and handling are usually done as
pressurized liquids, similar to LPG. They possess high cetane
numbers, enabling them to ignite easily and burn more com-
pletely than traditional hydrocarbon fuels. As a result, their
combustion in gas turbines could produce lower emissions of
harmful pollutants, e.g. NO x, SO x, and particulates.
Potential disadvantages for gas turbine applications include
required changes to the fuel system, limited infrastructure
and availability of supply, and HSE concerns due to the fact
that leakage would result in gasification of the fuel. Redesign
of the combustion system may be needed to address the high
reactivity / flashback risk. As methanol is frequently an inter-
mediate product of DME synthesis, again the question arises
about the costs of additional processing steps compared to
burning methanol directly.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 12
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
4 Carbon capture technologies
CCUS is increasingly recognized as having a critical role to
play in the delivery of net zero scenarios.[24]In the power
sector, CCUS is applicable to both gas turbines and also coal
and biomass power plants. In industry, CCUS can be applied
to the flue gases of hard to abate processes like cement and
steel making. CCUS also provides a route for the production
of blue, low-carbon hydrogen (see Figure 3).
Siemens Energy has ongoing partnerships with CCUS tech-
nology providers and is also evaluating the next generation
of carbon capture technologies, which are currently at lower
Technology Readiness Level (TRL).
The efficiency of carbon removal via CCUS is less than 100%,
and GHG emissions upstream from the site (e.g. methane
leakage) must be considered. Furthermore, in order for a fos-
sil power plant to be fully sustainable the carbon must not
end up in the atmosphere. CO 2storage in underground reser-
voirs (e.g. in depleted gas fields or deep saline aquifers) or
alternative long-term, fully contained processes such as uti-
lization in building materials, qualify as sustainable; whereas
the use of fossil derived carbon for the production of syn-
thetic fuels (e-fuels), even if part of a ‘closed loop’, would
eventually emit at least some CO 2into the atmosphere and is
only partially sustainable.
4.1 Storage and utilization
Storage is a prerequisite for sustainable carbon capture, ei-
ther directly near the site or via a pipeline to a final depos-
itory cavern. Hence, the potential for application of CCS to
gas turbines is highest at sites that are located nearby such
infrastructure. Currently there is very limited CO 2storage ca-
pacity but increasing numbers of storage locations are being
identified, mainly in the EU and US.[25]
In cases where sequestration of the captured CO 2is unfeasi-
ble, utilization may be considered. For example, the produc-
tion of methanol or other fuels offers a lifecycle CO 2reduc-
tion. Algae and other biological technologies can use CO 2to
create chemicals and foodstuffs that displace either fossil fuel
usage or other environmentally unfriendly products such as
soy and palm oil.
4.2 CO 2capture technologies
Table 1lists different categories of carbon capture technolo-
gies. There are several options for pre-combustion capture,
which typically has the goal of producing a carbon-free fuel
from fossil fuel feedstock. Some pyrolysis techniques convert
CH4into H 2leaving solid carbon as the material for disposal.
Then existing (natural gas) transport infrastructure can be
used, and thermodynamic integration of the pyrolysis pro-
cess into the plant may yield an efficiency benefit comparedto other CCUS technologies. Similarly, gasification of coal to
yield syngas, which consists predominantly of H 2and CO, can
be followed by shift reactions and separation processes to
convert the CO to CO 2for capture and storage.
T echnology Description
Pre-combustion Removal of carbon from fossil fuels
having high CO 2content (>20% vol.)
Oxyfuel firing EGR and O 2injection to achieve high
CO2in the exhaust (>70% vol.)
Post combustion
capture (PCC)Removal of CO 2from flue gas having
CO2content 4–20% vol. depending on
stoichiometry, EGR, etc.
T able 1 Carbon capture technologies.
Oxyfuel firing yields high concentrations of CO 2in the ex-
haust (without N 2) so that simple condensation of the flue
gas can be used to separate CO 2from water. In this way en-
ergy intensive chemical separation processes are avoided, but
significant costs are associated with reconfiguration of the
plant to accommodate the oxyfuel process, and additional
energy to produce pure oxygen in an air separation unit.
Post combustion capture
The relatively low CO 2concentrations in the exhaust dur-
ing normal operation of gas turbines, ∼4% vol., pose some
challenges for Post Combustion Capture (PCC) that can be ad-
dressed in various different ways. Absorption and adsorption
(Figure 10) form the bases of the leading technologies.
(a) (b)
Figure 10 Molecular interactions: (a) absorption, (b) adsorption.
Amine absorption can remove more than 95% of the CO 2
from the exhaust gas and may be scaled to almost any size
(Figure 11), even for large gas turbines and combined cycle
power plants.[26]CO2capture capacities exceeding 1 Mt per
year are achievable, although the largest systems have long
construction times, typically 24–36 months. Most designs
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 13
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
CCGT
PCC
Figure 11 Typical installation of a PCC unit at a large CCGT power plant.
consist of a tall absorber vessel, or tower, in which the CO 2-
rich flue gas and the solvent flow counter-directionally.
The solvent reacts only with CO 2, removing it from the gas
stream. The cleaned (CO 2-lean) flue gas is released into the
atmosphere while the solvent passes into a desorber tower
where temperature and/or pressure changes cause the sol-
vent to expel CO 2that is captured, then the solvent is recircu-
lated to the absorber vessel.
Rotating packed beds are a recently introduced PCC concept,
where instead of towers the absorption and desorption pro-
cesses take place in rotating drums using a proprietary amine
solvent. This ‘concentrated’ PCC process enables a reduction
of the steam required for desorption and a significant space
saving, with footprints 50% or less than conventional amine
tower solutions. Currently, the amount of CO 2that can be
captured is limited to ∼180 kt per year, making this technol-
ogy best suited to small/medium gas turbines.Unlike amine-based technology, which
is typically limited to gas temperatures
around 40°C prior to the absorber ves-
sel, the Hot Potassium Carbonate (HPC)
process accepts gas temperatures up to
700°C making it ideal for open cycle GTs.
It can also be applied to combined cycle
and cogeneration units with stack gas
temperatures in the range 80–180°C. HPC
solutions are currently applied to relatively
smaller scale plants than amine absorp-
tion. Future development may include
scaling-up to larger applications.
The HPC process pressurizes the hot flue
gases using a compressor/expander con-
figuration (Figure 12), whereby heat is
extracted from the flue gas prior to the
compressor to produce steam needed for
solvent desorption, before passing the
high-pressure flue gas through the ab-
sorber column. The expander can gen-
erate electricity using (reheated) CO 2-lean flue gas after the
absorber. For open cycle GTs, the expander can generate all
the electrical energy needed for the CO 2capture process and
sometimes also generate surplus electricity.
In adsorption processes the CO 2molecules pass through
a packed bed and adhere to the surface of the adsorbent.
Adsorption-based systems have multiple vessels with CO 2-
rich flue gas directed to ‘active’ vessels for CO 2capture, while
(steam) heat is applied to ‘inactive’ vessels for desorption /
CO2release. Zeolites, carbon-based materials and amine-
impregnated chemicals are commonly used as adsorbents,
although there is also increasing interest in metal-organic
frameworks. Adsorption works best at lower flue gas pres-
sures and temperatures (40–60°C) similar to amine absorp-
tion, while sorbent regeneration typically requires slightly
higher temperatures than for amines. Current experience of
adsorption-based PCC is limited to small scale applications.
Absorber
ColumnDesorber
ColumnSolvent Loop
CO 2
Flue Gas
CompressorExpander
CO 2-Lean Gas
(to Stack)RecuperatorCO 2-Rich
Flue Gas
Figure 12 Simplified flow diagram of the Hot Potassium Carbonate (HPC) process.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 14
HRSG
Exhaust Gas
(450–600°C)
CO2: 4–6% vol. w/o EGR,
or >15% vol. w. EGRDCCMax. 40% EGR
Exhaust Gas
(100–180°C)Exhaust Gas
(40°C)Ambient Air
O2: 21% vol.
Mixed Oxidant
O2>14% vol.FuelDecarbonization pathways for gas turbines
05101520
0 1 2 5
CO2Concentration (% vol.)
Mass of CO 2Captured (kt per day)Cryogenics
Amine TowersHPCRotating Packed Beds
Figure 13 Second generation PCC technologies.
Novel technologies
Two technologies that are the subject of active research are
cryogenics and electro-swing absorption. These technologies
may be expected to provide lower cost CO 2capture, with less
impact on plant performance.
Cryogenics involves cooling the flue gases and separating
out CO 2as a solid. A heat exchanger and heat recovery from
compression is then used to melt the CO 2so it can be trans-
ported as a pure liquid. Current cryogenic technologies re-
quire a minimum of around 15% vol. CO 2in the flue gas
stream (see Figure 13) and are not immediately applicable
to gas turbines.
Electro-swing absorption involves passing CO 2-rich flue gas
across a stack of electrodes. Activating the electrodes attracts
the CO 2and binds it to the surface, whereas deactivating the
electrodes releases the CO 2. This concept can be used on gas
streams with low CO 2concentrations and is expected to be
suitable for both gas turbines and DAC once the technology
has been suitably scaled and demonstrated.
Exhaust gas recirculationAdding supplementary oxygen (as for oxyfuel firing) allows
higher rates of EGR. For example, EGR of 75–85% can be
reached, corresponding to CO 2concentrations >15% vol.
This introduces opportunities for simpler, lower-cost indus-
trial PCC solutions such as mole sieves and membranes, and
cryogenic technologies.
4.3 Costs and incentives
CCUS adds significant CAPEX and OPEX compared to a stan-
dard natural gas fired power plant, negatively affecting the
LCOE of the generated power. Typical PCC installations re-
duce total plant efficiencies by 7–9 percentage points. On
the other hand, compared to a decarbonized fuel, a CCS-
equipped gas turbine may use a cheaper and readily available
fossil fuel. Carbon capture technologies are generally con-
sidered to have preferential economics at mid to base load
operating profiles. At lower operational profiles hydrogen and
other sustainable fuels are more economical solutions – un-
less there are site-specific constraints that would impact the
project economics. For example, regions that have access
to cheap natural gas and/or unfavourable conditions for RES
may opt for CCUS instead of sustainable fuels.
Retrofit of CCS to gas turbines is straightforward for PCC tech-
nologies that do not require significant changes to existing
equipment, whereas much greater modifications are re-
quired e.g. for oxyfuel combustion. In both cases a power
plant must have available space and also sufficient remaining
lifetime of operation to recoup the investment costs, espe-
cially as the reduced efficiency in many instances will lead to
a shifted dispatching (merit order) towards lower capacity
factors.
Positive economics for carbon capture projects will in the
nearer term require incentives in the form of a carbon tax
and/or carbon trading scheme. Governments around the
world are working to implement economic frameworks for
decarbonization, e.g. the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) in the
US which provides strong economic incentives for power CCS
projects. As mentioned above, low CO 2concentrations in the exhaust
from gas turbines present a major challenge for PCC. Exhaust
Gas Recirculation (EGR) at a relatively
lower rate than for oxyfuel firing offers
a potential way to increase the CO 2
content. EGR involves cooled exhaust
gases being recirculated to the air in-
take of the gas turbine and replacing a
portion of the normal combustion air
(Figure 14). The amount of exhaust
gas that can be recirculated is limited
to around 40% of the total exhaust
mass flow – otherwise the oxygen
concentration is insufficient for stable
combustion. At this EGR rate the exit
CO2content is approximately doubled
compared to a non-EGR unit.
Figure 14 Simplified schematic diagram of Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR).
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 15
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
5 Outlook
Gas turbines and combined cycle power plants are the most
economical way of providing residual load and much-needed
grid ancillary services in a decarbonized energy system. Key
advantages include low investment costs and the ability to
generate fully dispatchable power for sustained periods of
time when meteorological conditions are unfavorable for
wind and solar. In particular, gas turbines offer very high
operational flexibility to compensate for short term intermit-
tency. For combined heat and power applications they can
also provide decarbonized heat, e.g. for process industries
and district heating networks.
Decarbonization of gas turbines is expected to take different
forms in different regions. Currently, there is no clear ‘winner’
based on techno-economics since several factors are strongly
location dependent and others (e.g. fuel prices, infrastruc-
ture for transport and storage, regulatory incentives) are yet
to be fully developed. While gas turbines fired by green hy-
drogen represent a promising solution for renewable power-
to-X in most economies, in some cases ammonia or another
sustainable fuel, or carbon capture will be a better option.
The variety of possible technical solutions is exciting but it
also demands action in the form of R&D programmes that
should follow different development paths simultaneously.
There is little prospect of a combustion system that is op-
timized for (say) 100% H 2also being capable of firing pure
NH3, which has very different fuel properties. Furthermore,
the success of decarbonization depends on the full supply
chain including, e.g. fuel processing and distribution in-
frastructure, exhaust aftertreatment and other technolo-
gies. Continuing partnerships between gas turbine OEMs,
academia, industry, and governments are essential to ad-
vance the technology for decarbonization and roll it out
quickly to practical applications.References
1IPCC press release, August 2021: Climate change
widespread, rapid, and intensifying.
www.ipcc.ch/2021/08/09/ar6-wg1-20210809-pr
2UNEP Emissions Gap Report 2023: Broken record
– temperatures hit new highs, yet world fails to
cut emissions (again).
www.unep.org/emissions-gap-report-2023
3McKinsey & Company. The energy transition: a re-
gion-by-region agenda for near-term action, 2022.
4A. Dreizler, H. Pitsch, V. Scherer, C. Schulz, and
J. Janicka. The role of combustion science and
technology in low and zero impact energy trans-
formation processes. Appl. Energy Combust. Sci.
7:100040, 2021.
5F. A. Wolak. Wholesale electricity market design. In
J.-M. Glachant, P. L. Joskow, and M. G. Pollitt (eds.),
Handbook on Electricity Markets , pp. 73–110,
Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd., Cheltenham, 2021.
6Agora Energiewende: Agorameter tool.
www.agora-energiewende.org/data-tools
7J. Lehmann and D. Coumou. The influence of mid-
latitude storm tracks on hot, cold, dry and wet
extremes. Sci. Rep. 5:17491, 2015.
8Frontier Economics. The need for clean flexibility
in Europe’s electricity system, 2023.
9Ricardo. Study on the readiness and availability of
low- and zero-carbon ship technology and marine
fuels, 2023.
10ETN Global. Hydrogen gas turbines: the path to-
wards a zero-carbon future, 2020.
11Siemens Energy press release, October 2023:
HYFLEXPOWER consortium successfully operates a
gas turbine with 100 percent renewable hydrogen,
a world first. www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/
home/press-releases/hyflexpower-consortium-suc-
cessfully-operates-a-gas-turbine-with-.html
12Siemens Energy white paper. Hydrogen power
and heat with Siemens Energy gas turbines, 2022.
www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/home/publi-
cations/whitepaper/download-hydrogen-gas-tur-
bine-readiness-white-paper.html
13Oxford Institute for Energy Studies. Hydrogen
pipelines vs HVDC lines: should we transfer green
molecules or electrons?, 2023.
14N. Becker, L. Björnsson, and P. Börjesson. Green-
house gas savings for Swedish emerging ligno-
cellulose-based biofuels – using the EU renewable
energy directive calculation methodology.
Report No. 104, Lund University, 2017.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 16
Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines
15H. Vella. Green biofuels: a proven fuel for gas
turbines. Diesel & Gas Turbine Worldwide ,
April-June 2022, pp. 26–29.
16M. Ditaranto, M. Füri, S. Solvang, and I. Saanum. Ex-
perimental and numerical results of a non-DLE aero-
derivative GT combustion system burning CH 4-NH 3
blends at intermediate pressures. Proc. ASME Turbo
Expo, GT2023-103074, 2023.
17J. S. Mulder and H. O. van der Zalm. A fatal case of
ammonia poisoning [in Dutch].
Tijdschr. Soc. Geneeskd. 45:458–460, 1967.
18Singapore Ministry of Trade and Industry, March 2024.
www.mti.gov.sg/-/media/MTI/COS-2024/Press-
Releases-and-Factsheets/Low-Carbon-Energy-
Research_Factsheet-for-COS-2024.pdf
19S. Gubbi, R. Cole, B. Emerson, D. Noble, R. Steele,
W. Sun, and T. Lieuwen. Evaluation of minimum NO x
emission from ammonia combustion. Proc. ASME
Turbo Expo , GT2023-102599, 2023.
20Maersk press release, June 2023.
www.maersk.com/news/articles/2023/06/26/maersk-
orders-six-methanol-powered-vessels
Published by
Siemens Energy, Gas Services
New Technologies
Fuel Flexibility, Hydrogen & CCUS
Rheinstraße 100
45478 Mülheim, Germany21NZTC press release, February 2023.
www.netzerotc.com/news-insights/world-first-liquid-
bio-methanol-pilot-from-nztc-and-siemens-energy-
could-reduce-offshore-co2-emissions-by-75
22M. Vohra, J. Manwar, R. Manmode, S. Padgilwar,
and S. Patil. Bioethanol production: feedstock and
current technologies. J. Environ. Chem. Eng.
2:573–584, 2014.
23IATA. Developing sustainable aviation fuel: SAF policy
approach, 2023. www.iata.org/en/programs/environ-
ment/sustainable-aviation-fuels
24IEA Report. A global pathway to keep the 1.5°C goal
in reach, 2023 update. www.iea.org/reports
25Global CCS Institute, 2023. The global status of CCS.
status23.globalccsinstitute.com
26M. Bui, N. Sunny, and N. Mac Dowell. The prospects
of flexible natural gas-fired CCGT within a green tax-
onomy. iScience 26:107382, 2023.
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens-energy.com/decarbonization-offerings
This publication is provided for informational purposes only and you
should not construe any information presented as legal, tax, investment,
financial, or other professional advice. The content is of a general nature
and does not address the specific circumstances of any particular market,
event, application or installation, nor does it constitute a comprehen-
sive or complete statement of the matters discussed or the laws relating
thereto. Any information about Siemens Energy products and services is
subject to change without notice. Expected capabilities or benefits may
not apply in specific applications or be realized in all cases. Nothing in this
document shall be deemed or construed to be a warranty or guarantee
of the information, product(s), service(s) or method(s) described herein.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens
Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third
parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
© 2024 Siemens Energy Page 17