 
Frei verwendbar 
 Page 1 of 3  Port Harcourt, July 1, 2021  
Siemens Energy partners with GIL 
Automation to expand local content 
development in Nigeria 
 Siemens Energy and GIL Automation to improve local content in 
Nigeria 
 Improving technology and skills transfer, through training and project 
collaboration 
 Leveraging Siemens Energy’s Rotating Equipment Workshop in Port 
Harcourt 
 
Siemens Energy has signed an agreement with GIL Automation to boost 
the development of local content in Nigeria, in the form of training, skill 
developments and joint project execution, at the Siemens Energy 
Rotating Equipment Workshop in Port Harcourt. 
 
The agreement highlights Siemens Energy’s ongoing commitment to 
enhancing the development of the local economy through training, skills 
development, and investment. The agreement affirms Siemens energy’s 
continued compliance with the Nigerian Oil & Gas Industry Content 
Development Act.  
 
The agreement was signed at Siemens Energy’s Rotating Equipment 
Workshop in Port Harcourt, by Seun Suleiman, Managing Director of 
Siemens Energy Nigeria, and Lawal Gbolahan, Managing Director of GIL 
Automation, and witnessed by Engr Simbi Wabote, Executive Secretary of 
the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB). 
 
“Our goal at Siemens Energy is to Energize Society. This is more than just 
the products, services, and solutions we provide; it’s about benefiting Press release 
Contact for journalists  
Titilola Taiwo 
Phone:  
+2348081061769 
E-mail: 
Titilola.taiwo@siemens-
energy.com 
Press release 
Frei verwendbar Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1 
80333 Munich 
Germany 
Page 2 of 3  and bringing value to the society in which we operate. Since we 
commissioned this facility in 2016, we have continued to invest in its 
capabilities and expand our service offering to our clients in the oil and 
gas and non-oil and gas sectors. We have also recruited and trained more 
local engineers to effectively operate the workshop and increase the 
amount of local content. I am extremely proud that this agreement with 
GIL Automation will add further value to the local economy through skills 
development, training, and jobs,” said Seun Suleiman.  
 
“Siemens Energy’s strong commitment to maximizing local content 
development has been a key factor in our partnership that started since 
2008. Over the years, we have developed capacities and competencies in 
panel fabrication, electric motors, electrical & instrumentation and now 
moving into turbines and compressors. We’re proud to partner with 
companies that are dedicated to investing in the future of the Nigerian 
people,” said Gbolahan Lawal 
 
“Today is a milestone where NCDMB is witnessing the partnership 
between Siemens Energy and a local company, Gil Automation which will 
involve transfer of knowledge and technologies by Siemens Energy and 
supporting Gil Automation to build capacity to take on more active roles 
in the industry. Looking at the operators in the audience, I implore you all 
to work with Siemens Energy and Gil Automations so more jobs can be 
created through this partnership and we can continue to build and upskill 
local capabilities,” said Simbi Wabote.  
 
Since the workshop opened in 2016 it has been a key facility to enable 
Siemens Energy to contribute towards Nigeria’s long-term developmental 
goals and localization agenda in the oil & gas sector. Ongoing investment 
in the facility has expanded its capabilities and provided greater training 
and skills development opportunities for Nigerians.  
 
This press release and a press picture / press pictures / further material is 
available at www.siemens-energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/SiemensEnergyME    
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1 
80333 Munich 
Germany 
Press release 
Frei verwendbar Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann Werner-von-Siemens-Straße 1 
80333 Munich 
Germany 
Page 3 of 3  Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The 
company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus 
supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, 
solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – 
from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional 
and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants 
operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent 
of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company 
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader 
for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is 
based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 
people worldwide in more  
than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020.  
www.siemens-energy.com . 
 