siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
The Task
EKu.SIM and GKS are working together to develop effective 
simulation models and provide training courses. The primary 
target is to equip employees with the necessary knowledge 
and skills to operate GKS plants in a safe and efficient way. 
In addition, optimizations of the plant processes can be 
tested with the help of simulation. For this purpose, ther-
mal-hydraulic and process engineering models are 
developed to complement the Omnivise T3000 Simulator, 
which is fully integrated in the Omnivise T3000 control 
system.
These high-fidelity process models must accurately
replicate plant processes and plant behavior. This enables
an extremely realistic simulation, directly via the user 
interface of the control system.The Plant
For several decades, the Kraftwerks-Simulator-Gesellschaft 
(KSG) in Essen has been offering customized training  
concepts.  
EKu.SIM, KSG’s business unit for simulator engineering, 
develops and builds accurate simulators for waste incinera -
tion plants, industrial power plants, combined cycle plants, 
and district heating networks. With one-to-one simulators, 
EKu.SIM provides solutions to increase both the efficiency 
and availability of the power plant or district heating  
network and to solve engineering problems.  
For example, EKu.SIM works closely with the GKS-Gemein -
schaftskraftwerk Schweinfurt GmbH and plays a central 
role in their simulation and training concepts. The GKS 
plants – a coal-fired cogeneration plant with combined 
heat and power, and a waste-to-energy plant – are operated 
with the Omnivise T3000 control system. They supply  
district heating and electricity to various large commercial 
enterprises and to residential areas in the city of Schweinfurt.EKu.SIM,  
Germany
Optimized plant operation  
through training and simulation“
The T3000 Simulator trains the handling 
of the control system, and we complement 
this with process engineering. The result 
is a perfect training environment, in which
the simulation behaves exactly like the 
plant.”
Peter Lasch, Division Manager for Technology and Operation, 
EKu.SIM
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 2“Our employees need to master the plant 
and their processes perfectly. This is the 
only way they can react correctly in case 
of difficulties.
The Omnivise T3000 Simulator and the 
high-fidelity process models from EKu.SIM 
provide us realistic simulation, which is 
indispensable for the training of our 
employees.”
Dr. Ragnar Warnecke, Director of GKS-Gemeinschaftskraft-
werk Schweinfurt GmbHDetailed 1:1 simulation of plant processes supports the reliable supply of  
electricity and district heating by GKS-Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Schweinfurt GmbH.
The Results
• Improved knowledge of user interface and plant 
behavior for correct reactions. 
• Practical tests and optimization of the plant 
through 1:1 emulation of plant processes.
• Increased efficiency and safety of plant operation 
through intensive training.
• Avoidance of outages or damage to the plant.Reference | EKu.SIM, Germany
The Solution  
Thanks to close cooperation between EKu.SIM, Siemens 
Energy, and GKS-Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Schweinfurt 
GmbH, a completely realistic simulation of the GKS plants 
was achieved. The Omnivise T3000 Simulator runs in a  
virtual environment within a KSG data center and enables 
immediate and direct simulation in the T3000 Workbench – 
all based on the original control system data of the GKS. 
Coupled with external high-fidelity process models, which 
are based on KSG's process engineering expertise, the sim -
ulation precisely mirrors the plant's processes and complex 
areas like firing and flue gas cleaning. Various plant  
conditions, from start-up to full-load operation, as well as 
disturbed plant operation, are also simulated one-to-one. 
EKu.SIM provides the simulation solution to GKS as a service. 
By using the Omnivise T3000 Simulator, in conjunction 
with external process models, GKS staff can test different 
scenarios, optimize processes, and control the plants safely. 
Simulation allows staff to effectively prepare for what-if 
scenarios involving the plants. 
Published by and copyright © 2023
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Gas Services  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Gas Services  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USASiemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products.  
The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could 
violate the rights of the owners.