siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
The task
In order to keep the plants efficient and sustainable, an 
end-to-end I&C system for all turbines and plant components 
was needed, ensuring long-term support and easy 
maintainability.
For SWE Erfurt, it is crucial that its control system is  
always up to date and fulfills future requirements for critical 
infrastructure. An IEC 62443-certified system that offers 
advanced cybersecurity enables optimal protection of 
power generation facilities and is the basis for meeting  
KRITIS requirements with which SWE’s generation units 
must comply.The plant
SWE Energie GmbH supplies the city of Erfurt with electricity 
and heat via two plants: the combined heat and power 
plant on Iderhoffstraße, which has a peak-load boiler for 
district heating; and secondly, the Erfurt East combined 
cycle power plant. Through coupled production, the  
modernized Erfurt East plant saves 180,000 tons of CO₂  
per year compared to separate production. With an average 
fuel utilization rate of 83% and a maximum efficiency of 
90%, it is an outstanding example of a sustainable model.
SWE Energie GmbH’s plants have been operated using 
T3000 for a long time. For legacy reasons, three T3000  
systems with different versions of the T3000 control system 
were used in the plants, and extensive services will soon  
no longer be available for one of these versions. Therefore, 
SWE decided to comprehensively upgrade the entire control 
system to Omnivise T3000 R9.2.
Stadtwerke Erfurt,
SWEStadtwerke 
Erfurt (SWE), 
Germany
Up-to-the-minute power generation 
with Omnivise T3000 9.2
48,000
supplied with district heatinghouseholds 
© 2023 Siemens Energy Page 2“With Omnivise T3000 R 9.2,  
we successfully modernized  
the Erfurt plants and made 
them future-proof. The upgrade 
was absolutely smooth and  
frictionless.”
Daniel Fischer, Project Manager, SWE Energie GmbH &  
Norman Vogt, I&C Manager, SWE Energie GmbHDue to two modernizations and the latest control system, 
SWE Erfurt’s combined cycle power plant Erfurt East is 
ideally prepared to meet future requirements.The result
The upgrade to Omnivise T3000 9.2 enables:
• Ability to integrate renewable energy into the plant 
system, using advanced SCADA capabilities
• Enhanced cybersecurity for valuable assets and 
sensitive data to support KRITIS requirements
• Long-term stability through a sustainable system 
with long-term maintenance and serviceThe solution 
The upgrade to Omnivise T3000 Release 9.2 offered an 
integrated and consistent solution providing long-term 
support.
The integration of renewable energies is facilitated by  
control system’s SCADA functionality, which makes SWE 
well equipped to embed renewable generation into the 
overall system. The I&C system with advanced cyber-  
security functionalities fulfills the requirements of the  
KRITIS regulation according to IEC 62443 and supports 
secure plant operation.
By integrating the new Omnivise T3000 Release 9.2 control 
system, SWE’s plants benefit from a stable and sustainable 
platform. The close cooperation between Siemens Energy 
and Erfurter Stadtwerke enabled a seamless project flow 
and mutual exchange.
© SWE Energie GmbH/Andreas HultschReference | Stadtwerke Erfurt (SWE), Germany
Published by and copyright © 2023
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Gas Services  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen, Germany
For the U.S. published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
Gas Services  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826, USASiemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described,  
or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products.  
The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes could 
violate the rights of the owners.