BioWarmte Installatie
Lage Weide (BWI), 
Netherlands
Resilience and high flexibility 
with Omnivise T3000 
siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000T
he Plant
The BioWarmte Installatie Lage Weide (BWI) is 
the first plant for district heating realized  in 
Utrecht, Netherlands that uses a sustainable 
source. The BWI processes Dutch residual 
streams of wood (biomass) and converts them 
into sustainable district heat.
The Task
Annually, the BWI processes up to 180,000 tons 
of biomass. The T3000 system is used to 
control and monitor the complete process of 
converting biomass into energy.
Your Benefits
Besides the innovative 
architecture for simplified 
lifecycle management, 
T3000 offers:
▪Effective support for the 
operators
▪Efficient workflows in daily 
operations
▪Built -in security for the 
control system to withstand 
external cyber attacks
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AGOur Solution
The BWI is equipped with the proven 
automation system Omnivise T3000.
The control system of the BWI is integrated 
in a  Multi-Unit configuration with the 
T3000 systems of the two gas-fired district 
heating plants in Utrecht. This way a single 
control room with uniform HMI has been 
realized for all three plants.
“The proven control system 
T3000 from Siemens Energy helps 
us to keep our plants up
and running in an effective way .”
Eneco Warmteproductie Utrecht B.V.
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Siemens Energy
Otto-Hahn-Ring 6
81739 Munich, Germany
For more information, please visit our website 
www.siemens-energy.com/omnivise-t3000
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract.
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG