Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , March 09, 2021  
Siemens Energy ’s gas turbine technology  to 
support cleaner , more efficient energy 
productio n on  island of Cyprus  
• First private gas-fired combined cycle power plant on Cyprus  
• More than 50% CO 2 emissions reduction thanks to switch from heavy fuel oil to natural gas  
• Supply of three SGT -800 gas turbines and long -term maintenance services  
 
As the Repub lic of Cyprus  eyes a system of cleaner, more efficient and less costly energy production , 
Cyfield Construction Ltd. , one of the leading construction companies in Cyprus , and Siemens 
Energy are working together to support the  island’s much -anticipated  transition  toward 
decarbonization moving from expensive , environmentally  unfriendly  heavy fuel oil to natural gas.  
As part of this transition, Cyfield has chosen Siemens Energy to supply technology  and long -term 
service  for th e 260 -megawatt (MW) Cyfield Mari combined -cycle power plant . Three SGT -800 gas 
turbines will operate in a 3x1 comb ined -cycle configuration.  With Siemens Ener gy’s latest advanced 
SGT-800 technology, the plant will achieve the highest efficiency levels in this power plant range 
and the expected carbon dioxide emissions are estimated to be  more than  50% lower than the 
average current emissions of electricity production in Cyprus.  
 
The Siemens Energy scope of supply for the new Cyfield Mari power plant includes three SGT -800 
gas turbines , three SGen5 -100A  generators  and a 20 -year long -term service and maintenance 
agreement . The new power plant is anticipated to be in full operation by 2023 and is projected to 
be in line with the arrival of  liquified natural gas  (LNG) on the islan d. Cyprus’  new LNG terminal is 
currently under construction. Until now  the island grid of Cyprus is almost completely served by 
heavy fuel oil fired boilers . As the space for wind and solar power  is limited on the island, the switch 
to natural gas is also the key le ver to reduce harmful sulphur oxide and to keep particle emission s to 
a minimum. In addition , the  station’s performance will  lead to a significant reduction in the cost of 
electricity and supply as much as one third of Cyprus’s electricity needs.  
 Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
“We are very proud to support Cyprus in advancing the decarbonization of its energy system by 
supplying our leading SGT -800 gas turbine s,” said Karim Amin, Executive Vice President Generation 
at Siemens Energy. “The new power plant will be a landmark for susta inable power production on 
the island and ensures a reliable, environmentally friendly and economical electricity supply for 
many years to come . The gas turbines easily can be upgraded to burn e.g. hydrogen, so that fuel 
should become available in the futu re.” 
 
“The development of this power plant is vital for the energy sufficiency and independence of 
Cyprus. Additionally, the cost of electricity will be significantly lower for Cyprus businesses and 
households, directly benefiting the economy ,” said Kyriakos Chrysochos, founder of the Cyfield 
Group. “ Cyfield is proud to be part of Cyprus’ energy transition away from heavy fuel oil towards 
significantly cleaner natural gas . With Siemens Energy as the supplier of the gas turbines, we count 
on prod ucing electricity for the island with the most efficient and reliable gas turbines in the 
market.  Cyfield appreciates the constructive support by Siemens  Energy  since the beginning of our 
power plant project and we have high expectations on the future coll aboration. ” 
 
 
With more than ten million total fleet operating hours and more than 425 units sold,  the SGT -800 
gas turbine is ideally suited for power generation, where reliability and efficiency are crucial.  
 
 
 

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Contact for journalists  
Kerstin Schirmer  
Phone:  +49 (172) 2669588  
E-mail:  kerstin.schirmer@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and press picture s are  available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
For further information on Siemens Energy’s Generation Division , please see http://bit.ly/3ejNhE4  
For further information on the SGT -800 ga s turbine , please see http://bit.ly/2YVbg5K  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the e ntire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transfo rmers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the elec tricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 