Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 1 of 2 
 
Berlin, February 23, 2021 
Siemens Energy to supply F-class gas 
turbines to power China’s Greater Bay Area 
development  
 Two SGT5-4000F units for Guangdong Energy Group new CHP project 
 Most advanced F-class technology to date 
 Carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions reduction of up to 60% by utilizing natural gas as fuel source 
versus coal  
 
Siemens Energy has reached an agreement with Guangdong Energy Group Co., Ltd. (Guangdong 
Energy Group), to provide F-class gas turbine island equipment for the Zhaoqing Dinghu Combined 
Heat and Power (CHP) generation project. Located in Dinghu District, Zhaoqing City, Guangdong 
Province, the project is expected to be put into operation in 2023. When completed, it will become 
a key part for optimizing the energy structure and layout of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao 
Greater Bay Area (GBA) and building a modern energy supply system.   
 
The project is the first worldwide to provide Siemens F-class gas-steam combined cycle units with 
the latest and newest design that features a large, elevated operation platform layout and mirrored 
side air intake system. The 2×460MW class gas-steam CHP units include two SGT5-4000F gas 
turbines, two steam turbines, four generators, two SPPA-T3000 control systems and related 
auxiliary equipment. 
 
“We are proud to support Guangdong Energy Group with our highly efficient F-class gas turbines in 
making a significant contribution towards their decarbonization efforts,” said Karim Amin, Executive 
Vice President Generation at Siemens Energy. “A modern energy supply system for the GBA is an 
important step towards China’s 2060 carbon neutral goal and we look forward to our continued 
cooperation with Guangdong Energy Group in this direction.” 
The project will bring both economic and environmental benefits to the GBA: estimated annual 
power generation capacity up to 3.5 billion kWh, combined cycle efficiency of the unit of 60% or Press release 
Press release 
Siemens Energy AG 
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Page 2 of 2 
 more and CO 2 emission reduction up to 60%, which not only provides clean electricity to the grid, 
but also supports the heating demand of the industrial clusters in the area by replacing scattered 
small boilers. 
 
To date, more than 350 units of 50Hz F-class gas turbines from Siemens Energy have been installed 
worldwide with the equivalent operating hours exceeding 17 million hours. Siemens Energy's F-
class gas turbines debuted in the market in 1996 and has 25 years of operational experience 
worldwide. 
 
 
 The SGT5-4000F gas turbine has been optimized for outstanding performance and excellent efficiency 
 
Contact for journalists 
Amy Pempel 
Phone:  +1 407-408-1932 
E-mail:  amy.pempel@siemens-energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture are available at www.siemens-energy.com/press   
For further information on Division Generation, please see https://bit.ly/3ejNhE4  
For further information on the SGT5-4000F please see https://bit.ly/33WfJHp 
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy 
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com . 
