 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 Page  1 of 3  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Munich, November 19, 2020  
Gas turbines from Siemens Energy  
are providing Leipzig with a climate  
neutral power supply  
 
• Stadtwerke Leipzig receives two cutting -edge gas turbine packages  
• New district heating power plant has a fuel efficiency of 9 3 percent  
• Goal to operate with up to  100 percent hydrogen  in the long term  
 
Siemens Energy is supplying two cutting -edge gas turbine packages for the 
Leipzig Süd district heating power plant  in Germany . The new plant will 
contribute to the decarbonization of the power supply in two ways: Fir st, the 
investment will make Stadtwerke Leipzig independent of district heat from the 
Lippendorf lignite -fired power plant. Secondly, the plant is expected to operate 
with  30 to  50 percent green hydrogen only a few years after start of 
commercial operation . The long -term goal is to operate the facility with 100 
percent hydrogen. Commissioning is scheduled for the end of 2022.  
 
The new gas power plant with combined heat and power technology will be 
built on Stadtwerke Leipzig ’s existing site on Bornaische St rasse and produce 
electricity and district heat for the city. It will have an electrical capacity of 
approximately 12 5 megawatts (MW) and a thermal capacity of around 163 
MW. The plant ’s maximum fuel efficiency will be 93 percent, thanks to the 
district he at production.  
 
The order from Stadtwerke Leipzig covers the supply of two SGT -800 gas 
turbines, each with a maximum efficiency of 41 percent. The turbines are 
expected to be fired with natural gas, starting in late 2022, and be successively 
converted to the combustion of ever greater proportions of hydrogen. The 
long -term goal  is to operate the plant with 100 percent green hydrogen, which Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Kerstin Schirmer  
Phone: +49 172 2669588  
E-mail: kerstin.schirmer  
@siemens.com  
Press rel ease  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Page  2 of 3  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  can be produced from wind or solar energy by electrolysis. This will permit 
completely CO 2-free and climate -neutral pl ant operation.  
 
“By investing in a new cutting -edge district heating power plant, we’re not only 
ensuring that the City of Leipzig will be supplied with electricity and heat in the 
coming decades,” said  Karsten Rogall, Managing Director of  Stadtwerke  Leipzig. 
“We are also getting ready to actively pursue decarbonization. The ability to 
flexibly increase the share of hydrogen in the fuel is an excellent prerequisite 
for a sustainable and reliable power supply for Leipzig .” 
 
“Our SGT -800 not only achieves th e lowest emissions in its class, it is also 
outstanding with its high fuel flexibility and lower lifecycle costs,” said Karim 
Amin, Executive Vice President of Generation at Siemens Energy. “We’re 
pleased to be working with Stadtwerke Leipzig to further pr omote the 
transition towards a new level of decarbonized energy mix in Germany.”  
 
Siemens Energy will provide  two SGT -800 gas turbine packages, including two 
SGen -100A generators . The scope of supply includes a SIESTART  battery 
solution, which ensures that the plant can perform a black start . As a result, 
the power plant can start up on its own without an external power supply in 
the unlikely event of a widespread blackout . Siemens Energy will also install 
and commission  the equipment . 
  
 
Siemens Energy has the long -term target to increase the hydrogen firing 
capability of its SGT -800 gas turbine up to 100 percent.  

Press rel ease  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Page  3 of 3  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann   
 
This press release and a press picture are available at  
https:// bit.ly/3nzEO2S   
More information about  Siemens Energy can be found at:  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/company/about.html  
More information about combined heat and power ca n be found at:  
www.siemens.com/chp  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works 
with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition 
to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens 
Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to 
storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and 
steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and 
transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has a lready been decarbonized. A majority 
stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a 
global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one -sixth of the electricity generated 
worldwide is based on technologi es from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 
90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 
billion in fiscal year 2020 . www.siemens -energy.com . 