 
Siemen s Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG  
 Page  1 of 4  Munich,  August 31 , 2020   
Siemens  Energy  and Kinetic or 
advance  Canada’s decarbonization 
efforts  
• New 900-megawatt (MW) combined cycle power plant to 
provide over  eight  percent of Alberta’s energy supply  
• Siemens  Energy  to provide its state -of-the-art natural gas 
turbine technology and service  
• Project designed to significantly reduce the province’s  carbon 
footprint  from energy  
 
Futhering its commitment to decarbonizing the energy sector worldwide , 
Siemens Energy has been  selected to provide its highly efficient gas 
turbine technology and long -term services to the planned 900 MW 
Cascade Power Plant in Alberta, Canada.  The project supports the 
decarbonization of Alberta's power supply by switching fro m coal to 
natural gas. Once operational, the power plant  is expected to reduce 
Alberta’s carbon emissions from energy  production  by up to  five percent.  
 
Siemens Energy received the order from Kineticor , a developer and 
manager of clean power projects across Canada  with the end user being 
the Cascade Power Project Limited  Partnership .  The order value is in 
excess of EUR330 million.  The plant is exp ected to begin operating in 
2023.  
 Press release  
Contact for journalists  
Alfons Benzinger  
Phone: +49 (1 72) 155 9447  
E-mail:  
alfons.benzinger@siemens.
com   
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  2 of 4  Per the agreement, Siemens Energy will provide two highly efficient 
SGT6 -8000H  gas tubines  in single shaft combine cycle configuration , 
steam turbine s and heat recovery steam generator s as well as long -term 
services.  
The 900MW Cascade Power Plant , to be located near Edson, Alberta,  is 
designed to  produce  low emissions and highly efficient electricity that is 
expected to supply over eight  percent  of the province’s average 
electricit y demand.  Furthermore, the project is expected to creat e 600 
peak jobs and 25 long -term positions.  
 
In the power sector, Alberta contribut es over 50  percent  of Canada’s 
greenhouse gas emissions  and as such t he Cascade  Power Plant  is 
expected to result in one of the largest emissions reduction opportunities 
in the countr y’s electricity sector .  
 
“This agreement is a perfect testament to Siemens Energy’s long -term 
commitment to helping our customers meet their decarbonization 
goals, ” said Jochen Eickholt , Member of the Executive Board of Siemens 
Energy . “The Cascad e Power Plant project will benefit Alberta by not only 
substantially reducing emissions, but also by providing jobs and other 
economic benefits to the region.”  
  
“Kineticor is extremely pleased  to have Siemens Energy as part of th is 
project ,” said Andrew Plaunt, CEO of Kineticor.  “The state -of-the-art 
technology  and service  they are providing will enable the project to 
contribute to reducing Alberta’s carbon footprint while providing a 
reliable source of energy .” 
 
And Arne Woh lschlegel, Managing Director  of Siemens Energy Canada, 
added: “Siemens Energy gas turbine technology is among the most 
efficient powerful gas turbines in commercial operation and we are 
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  3 of 4  proud to be a part of the Cascade Power Plant project that will greatly 
impact Alberta’s e conomy and energy supply. We look forward to 
working with K ineticor and the other partners throughout the project .” 
 
Making a global contribution to decarbonization, Siemens Energy offers 
all core technologies for a long -term CO 2-free energy supply – from 
power and heat generation by renewable energies or gas -fired power 
plants, to power transmission and distribution, to efficient electrolysis for 
hydrogen production.  
 
 
Above: The SGT6 -8000H, like the one above, offer s high operational flexibility and low 
lifecycle costs  
 
This press release is available at : https://sie.ag/2ESCuTz   
 
For further information on Siemens Gas and Power , please see 
www.siemens.com/energy  
 
Follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Press release  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
Page  4 of 4  Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens 
group, which has been w orking with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands 
of industry and society for more than 150 years. With planned stock listing, Siemens’ 
energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future.  
It will offer broad expertise  across the entire energy value chain, along with a 
comprehensive portfolio for utilities, independent power producers, transmission system 
operators, the oil and gas industry, and other energy -intensive industries. With its 
products, solutions, systems, a nd services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, 
processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central 
and distributed thermal power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the 
energy transformation, i ncluding storage and sector -coupling solutions. The majority 
stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future -oriented portfolio. 
With its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, 
Siemens Energy will b e a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers 
on their path to a more sustainable future. With around 90,000 employees worldwide, 
Siemens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and tomorrow.  
www.siemens -energy.com . 