Diagnostic services
Expert support for highest plant availability
siemens-energy.com

2The importance of diagnosticsThe importance of diagnostics
Page 3Page 3
Challenges and solutionsChallenges and solutions
Page 4Page 4
Insights and experiencesInsights and experiences
Page 4Page 4
Critical success factorsCritical success factors
Page 5Page 5
Building a diagnostic serviceBuilding a diagnostic service
Page 6Page 6
The diagnostic processThe diagnostic process
Page 7Page 7
The process in action: case studyThe process in action: case study
Page 9Page 9
Delivering the long-term benefitsDelivering the long-term benefits
Page 12Page 120202
0303
0404
0505
0606
0707
08080101Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services
Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services
In almost all modern energy markets, availability is the most 
important factor for meeting business goals. If power gener-
ation companies cannot meet contractual obligations they 
will face serious financial and regulatory consequences. 
Monitoring, diagnosing and managing equipment condition 
is one of the keys to profitability and even to business 
viability. Every major power plant will contain a complex 
blend of large-scale rotating equipment, as shown in the 
figure below:Gas or steam turbines, generators, gear boxes, fans, 
pumps, motors: all of these need to be monitored continu-
ously to ensure that mechanical health of key assets is 
protected, performance is optimized and availability is not 
compromised. At first, this may not seem a major problem. 
Mission critical rotating equipment will normally be fitted 
with sensors to measure such operating characteristics as 
temperature, pressure, speed, power and other factors, 
although smaller and less essential equipment may not. 
12
34
56
7 891 Gas turbine auxiliaries
2 Steam turbine auxiliaries
3 Generator auxiliaries
4 GT-Compressors
5 Condensate pumps
6 Ventilation
7 Pump motors
8 Cooling water pumps
9 Feed-water pumps
Sensor data for equipment protection are made available 
for review in the Distributed Control System (DCS), and can 
be sent by the DCS to a range of specialist systems, such as 
those used for maintenance management. This enables 
more effective asset management and helps ensure that 
availability requirements are met. To safeguard the me-
chanical health of critical assets, however, it is essential 
that vibration monitors should also be fitted, and these 
generate large amounts of data every minute of every day. 
These data are also sent to the DCS, but normally only as 
overall values without essential information, such as fre-
quencies and phase angles, which are essential for identify-
ing anomalies fast and tracking potential problems.01. The importance of diagnostics
3
Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services
444Specialized tools and human expertise are both essential if 
these data are to be used effectively, leading to rapid and 
accurate diagnosis of issues. Yet deriving actionable in-
sights from this continuous flow of information can cause 
problems, especially within businesses that are experienc-
ing severe cost pressures. The numbers of specialized 
engineering staff may be far lower than in the past, for 
example, due to long-term cost reduction initiatives, and 
this makes it harder to carry out analysis and diagnostics 
in-house. 
Effective, detailed diagnostic insights make it possible to 
reduce the number of outages for routine maintenance 
substantially and, by doing so, make large cost savings. The 
time required for each outage can be reduced, while com-
ponents can also be ordered early, further saving down-
time, once diagnostic data reveals which components need 
to be changed. Efficient monitoring and diagnostics can 
also make it possible to keep plants operational, even if 
failures in specific assets take place, further saving time and 
money.02. Challenges and solutions
03. Insights and experiences
Condition data, therefore, can and should become a source 
of competitive advantage to power generation businesses. 
Detailed, granular operational insights derived from sensor 
data enable engineers to see, not just that an anomaly is 
taking place but where, how  and why  this is happening. 
The goal is to identify root causes for anomalies as fast as 
possible, because that is the key to saving time and money, 
while avoiding potential disruption to operations. It is also 
essential for avoiding damage to assets, which may happen 
if failures are not diagnosed fast enough. Yet without 
reliable insights, condition monitoring provides top level 
information only. To identify root causes, it may well be-
come necessary to use a certain amount of guesswork or 
trial and error in fixing the fault, and that can lead to fur-
ther problems. 
Alternatively, engineers can carry out a forensic investiga-
tion, taking a piece of equipment or sub-assembly apart to 
search for the underlying issue. Some detective work is a 
normal part of an engineer’s activities, but the longer it 
takes to find root causes, the higher the risk of damage to 
key assets, leading to longer outages and greater downside 
for the business. 
Planned outages, during which assets are shut down, 
normally take place as part of a clearly defined workplan, 
with components being replaced in accordance with time-
based calculations (that is, replacement after a defined 
number of operating hours or stop-start cycles). Detailed 
condition data may well enable replacements to happen at longer intervals, if components are still in good condition. 
In other words, plant operators can move to a maintenance 
regime based on real data (the actual condition of a compo-
nent) rather than theoretical data (replace after X hours 
operation). 
This is likely to extend asset life, reduce maintenance costs, 
both by eliminating unnecessary purchase of new compo-
nents and cutting the time taken for the maintenance cycle, 
which all helps to improve availability. This quickly turns 
into a virtuous circle, but it depends on turning data flows 
into actionable insights, quickly, simply and cost-effectively.

Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services
04. Critical success factors
Insights and action.  Insight is the key 
to effective, trustworthy recommendations, 
and that is a key differentiator for the ap-
proach Siemens Energy takes. To ensure best 
possible asset management, maintenance 
managers at power generation companies need to know 
exactly what to do and how to keep their equipment work-
ing at maximum efficiency and reliability. Raw data leads 
only to more and more analytical work. Insights lead to 
effective action.  
Identifying root causes for anomalies is clearly highly 
desirable, but it is a specialized service, and one that most 
power generation companies cannot afford to maintain for 
themselves, largely due to market-driven changes. In most 
markets, companies are moving from very large, central-
ized plants to a larger number of smaller units. The eco-
nomics of these smaller plants means they cannot afford 
diagnostic specialists locally, so smaller plants must depend 
on an in-house service that serves an entire fleet or find an 
external provider able to deliver an outsourced service.
Specialized engineering exper-
tise.  In some rare cases, there may also be a 
need to reach back into design and manufac-
turing capability for the granular insights that 
enable engineering teams to understand root 
causes in real depth. At Siemens Energy, for 
example, the full power of its design capability can be 
accessed by diagnosticians to solve the most difficult and 
intractable problems. 
This kind of human capability rarely exists within even the 
largest power generation companies today, both because 
of its highly specialized nature and the requirement for 
proprietary insights. It is a basic part of Siemens Energy 
Diagnostic Services, however, and covers all vendor equip-
ment. Supplemented by advanced analytic tools, diagnostic 
engineering makes it possible to identify, not just what 
components are not operating correctly, but why, and what 
to do about it. If even deeper understanding of systems at 
design level is required, it is possible to consult rotor dy-
namics specialists within the Siemens Energy design team. 
They can provide an extra level of know-how that only exists within certain large manufacturers, such as Siemens 
Energy. Rotor dynamics specialists have exceptional under-
standing of how rotating equipment should operate under 
all conceivable conditions. They provide deep understand-
ing of rotor dynamic effects (sleeve bearing problems, 
cracks, loose parts), working at the level of basic physics 
and core mechanical properties.
Diagnostic support. Remedial inter-
ventions and routine maintenance will usual-
ly be carried out by customers’ Maintenance 
Departments, which are normally staffed by 
highly competent and experienced engineers. When unusu-
al events, or indicators that are out of routine experience 
occur, however, customers may ask for specialist engineer-
ing support from Siemens Energy, which will deploy an 
expert team of diagnostic engineers to investigate the 
vibration data and identify root causes for problems.Data analytics. We need to ensure 
measurement of the right data (vibration, 
pressure, temperature…), at the right time 
intervals (continuously for vibration, at wider 
intervals for other indications), and make 
sure that measurements are taken in parallel 
(enabling us to see if a change in one indicator leads to an 
impact on others). Automated analytics are provided 
through comparison of recorded machine behavior with the 
actual behavior of the machine in operation, while intelli-
gent archiving is needed to avoid engineers being flooded 
with excess data. In practice, a well-designed system will 
only record time-based information while the machine is 
running normally, and record more detailed information as 
fast as possible following an unusual event. Automation 
can be used for rapid analysis at a top level, while it is 
possible to establish rules based on behavior patterns, 
which for some machines can lead to an automatic diagno-
sis and alert if tolerances are violated.
5
6An effective diagnostic service, such as 
that offered by Siemens Energy, includes 
the following characteristics:
Vendor neutral.  It must cover all OEM equipment within 
a single service. Complex asset landscapes must be served 
by the same diagnostic service to provide a single, consol -
idated and highly accurate view for customer mainte -
nance and engineering departments. 
Customizable reporting.  A diagnostic service provides a 
basic service level, but must be flexible enough to meet 
specific customer requirements at all times. A status 
report on each of the in-scope machines will be delivered 
typically every month, quarter or half year, but specific 
reports can be called down at any time, once terms are 
agreed. 
Comprehensive coverage.  Assets range from those that 
are absolutely mission critical to those that are less im -
portant, depending on their complexity and sensitivity, so 
reporting is calibrated to the importance of the assets 
concerned.05. Building a diagnostic service
On premise and online.  Diagnostic insights are normally 
provided by the customer’s maintenance department, using 
sensor data delivered directly from their assets, but further 
support and expert guidance can be provided as needed. 
Where customers prefer not to allow remote access to their 
systems, data can be delivered in any manner that suits 
their own requirements, and site visits by diagnostic ex -
perts will take place as and when needed. 
Recommendations.  These are what make a diagnostic 
service indispensable, and also what makes the Siemens 
Energy Diagnostic Services different. Siemens Energy will 
mobilize its full capability to identify root causes and pro -
vide instructions to maintenance teams, enabling them to 
fix the fault that has been identified quickly and without 
unnecessary disruption. 
Higher levels of consulting support are always available, of 
course, but the purpose of an effective diagnostic service is 
precisely to avoid expensive consultancy wherever possible. 
The service should operate to logical, clearly defined rules 
and to a fixed cost. Customers should know what they will 
receive,  when, how and for how much.
Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services
Diagnostic Services for all types of machines: general process
Stage 0: Preliminary stage.  At this preliminary stage all 
contractual details and parameters will be set. This includes 
agreeing a principal contact person on the customer side, 
who is empowered to receive reports and commission new 
Stage 1: Baselining.  Once the project commences, the 
Vibrocam 5000 will be brought into operation and detailed 
baselining will take place to cover all assets in scope of the 
agreement. Siemens Energy field service will check and set 
up the system correctly, calculate all tolerance zones and 
enter international limits. They will identify any missing or 
defective items in the measuring chains. The service now 
begins, with a fixed cost payable for preparation, defined 
by the scope of activities and assets to be covered. 06. The diagnostic process
Siemens Energy Diagnostic Services requires only one piece 
of proprietary equipment, the Vibrocam 5000 condition 
monitoring system. The system comprises two major 
components: 
• Data acquisition unit that is able to read and collate data 
from any existing machinery protection system by 
directly connecting the measuring chains.• Software package that can be trained to identify normal 
vibrational behavior and compare actual measurements 
with the defined tolerance zones-sending an alert when 
the tolerances are exceeded, and containing a compre -
hensive set of tools for root cause analysis. 
The process carried out by the diagnostic service is illustrat -
ed in the figures below and includes the following stages:
input as needed. Siemens Energy will jointly define the 
level of service required, and specifically the frequency of 
reports, and also confirm the number of assets and compo -
nents to be covered by the agreement.
Stage 2: Regular Status Reports.  As defined by the agree -
ment between Siemens Energy and the customer, reports 
are presented to show how each asset is operating. These 
reports may show examples of machines that exceeded 
limits, together with machines where vibration vectors are 
out of tolerance zones anomalous or out of tolerance.
*one time cost  
7Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services
8Stage 3, Detailed report on abnormal behavior.  If any 
routine report, presented at Stage 2, shows anomalous 
working, the customer may then choose to ask for a more 
detailed, forensic investigation, leading to a detailed report 
and recommendations for action on any pieces of equip -
ment giving cause for concern. This investigation is a new 
piece of work covered by an agreed rate care. When a 
detailed report is asked for:
• The Siemens Energy diagnostic team will analyze the 
data further to produce the desired report. This will 
involve remote working as a norm, though some travel 
to the customer site, pre-authorized by the customer, 
may take place if necessary.
Action and recommendations.  Follow up action is not part 
of this service, as it is entirely the customer’s prerogative to 
decide what to do and how to do it, although the Siemens 
Energy Field Engineering capabilities are available for 
support, as and when needed. The detailed reports on 
abnormal behavior gives the customer all the information 
needed to decide on their next steps. Such action can either 
be carried out by the customer’s own in-house maintenance 
and engineering teams, supported with insights and advice, 
as needed, by Siemens Energy; or be executed by a Siemens 
Energy engineering team, where there is need for special -
ized expertise. 
• The diagnostics team will mobilize the expert personnel 
and other tools required to produce the full report,  
as requested.
The report will normally include detailed recommendations 
for action, based on root cause diagnosis, presented with 
the supporting data and rationale needed to support this. 
Recommendations for action form a fundamental part of 
this stage of the service.
Once remedial action has been completed and the anoma -
lies removed, the normal level of service continues until the 
next anomaly is identified. 
The logic of this approach should be clear. As much of the 
service as possible is delivered to set parameters and for 
fixed costs, ensuring that all customers can plan their opera -
tional commitments and finances in advance and with few 
surprises. At the same time, the service design is flexible 
enough to ensure that a rapid response takes place whenev -
er necessary.
**cost per orderWhitepaper  l Diagnostic services
Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services
07. The process in action: case study
The key factor in making Siemens Energy Diagnostic Ser-
vices a real source of added value is the depth and quality 
of the recommendations made. Reports and recommenda-
tions can be commissioned at any time and for a variety of 
reasons. This is not simply a response to an obvious emer-
gency but can be used as part of an optimization project, to 
facilitate development of a proactive maintenance program 
or to test that assets return to normal working after a 
routine shut down. This approach is illustrated in the fol-
lowing case study.
Three separate problems were identified within production 
assets at a large plant in Western Europe. As part of an 
existing contract, the Siemens team was commissioned to 
review these issues and present recommendations for 
solving the problems. 
Asset and first problem.  Siemens Energy reviewed vibra-
tion measurements taken on a steam turbine, made by a 
non-Siemens OEM, installed at a large power plant. An 
outage due to scheduled maintenance work was followed 
by unusual vibration measurements on the turbine set. 
These vibrations persisted on restarting the turbine. Investigation. Siemens Energy carried out a rapid investi-
gation and the team soon identified two of the 12 bearings 
as potentially being responsible for the unusual vibration 
profile, as the vibration level was high only on these bear-
ings.
Analytical work.  To validate the initial hypothesis concern-
ing the fault, a detailed measurement was taken at the 
generator exciter bearing using an additional portable 
vibration measuring instrument. Measurements were taken 
both on the pedestal and on the foundation to which the 
pedestal was fixed. Differences between these measure-
ments strongly suggested that the problem was caused by a 
faulty connection between one of the bearings and the 
foundation plate.  
Initial recommendation. Based on this analysis, the cus-
tomer was advised to shut down the turboset again as soon 
as possible and check the tightening torque of each bearing 
foot bolt. During the check of the foot bolts it was deter-
mined that at least two bolts were inadequately tightened. 
After correcting the fault the turboset was restarted and, 
during subsequent power operation the exciter bearing no 
longer showed any anomalies.
1.1. Due to increased casing vibrations at bearing #8 it was  Due to increased casing vibrations at bearing #8 it was 
recommended to shut down the turbo set.recommended to shut down the turbo set.
2.2. Tightening the foot screws of bearing #8 during gear  Tightening the foot screws of bearing #8 during gear 
operation.operation.
3. 3. After tightening the foot screws of bearing #8 the After tightening the foot screws of bearing #8 the 
machine showed a very good casing vibration level at base machine showed a very good casing vibration level at base 
load (Evaluation Zone A).load (Evaluation Zone A).
Initial review of vibration readings led to a recommendation Initial review of vibration readings led to a recommendation 
to shut down the turboset. Tightening the foot screws to shut down the turboset. Tightening the foot screws 
removed the problem and enabled rapid return to normal removed the problem and enabled rapid return to normal 
operation.operation.Second problem. It was also noted that the shaft vibration 
level (96 ym) measured at the generator appeared faulty, 
because the same vibration pattern appeared both at 
3000 rpm (production speed) and at a slow roll speed 
(turning gear operation). Subtracting the readings taken at 
slow roll speed from those at 3000 rpm revealed that true 
vibration levels were actually half those recorded (45 ym, 
not 95 ym).  The Siemens Energy team therefore concluded 
that the measuring track of the generator shaft vibration 
were either damaged or have fields that are magnetized. It 
was agreed that the turboset should remain in normal oper-
ation until a routine outage for maintenance was sched-
uled, avoiding what would have been a quite unnecessary 
disruption to operations.
9
Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services
10Validation . Once this work was carried out all of the 
spectra and shaft orbits were checked and no other anom-
alies were found. This meant that, from the vibration 
standpoint, the turboset could be regarded as suitable for 
unrestricted, long-term continuous operation.
These images show how, both in turning gear operation and These images show how, both in turning gear operation and 
during load operation, disturbances in the measurement signal during load operation, disturbances in the measurement signal 
were detected. By analyzing the nature of the fault, Siemens were detected. By analyzing the nature of the fault, Siemens 
Energy was able to diagnose a mechanical defect – in this Energy was able to diagnose a mechanical defect – in this 
case scratches – of the measuring track.case scratches – of the measuring track.
Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services
Due to damages to the measuring tracks on the generator Due to damages to the measuring tracks on the generator 
shaft (scratches) the first harmonic value 1n is visualized shaft (scratches) the first harmonic value 1n is visualized 
instead of Smax. Scratches on the generator shaft led to the instead of Smax. Scratches on the generator shaft led to the 
sensors recording harmonic values, rather than true vibration. sensors recording harmonic values, rather than true vibration. 
Once this was understood, it became clear that emergency Once this was understood, it became clear that emergency 
maintenance work was not needed.maintenance work was not needed.  
This shows output from one of the pairs of sensors. In this This shows output from one of the pairs of sensors. In this 
figure, higher readings are shown by the sensors above com-figure, higher readings are shown by the sensors above com-
pared with those shown below.pared with those shown below.Third problem. The diagnostic work carried out by the Siemens 
Energy team revealed large differences between the readings 
taken by the two pairs of sensors, one of them installed at 
the turbine and the other at the generator. In each pair of 
sensors, there was a discrepancy between the readings taken 
from each of the sensors. This suggested that one sensor in 
each of the two pairs was not operating properly.
11
Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services
12Recommendation.  As it appeared that one of the measur-
ing chains was defective (either due to faulty sensors, 
oscillators or mountings) the decision was taken to replace 
the complete measuring chain showing the lower (and 
therefore apparently anomalous) readings. 
Validation.  Readings returned to normal after replacement, 
with both measuring chains providing closely aligned data 
readings. 
This example can be considered typical of how Diagnostic 
Services are used by customers. An initial notification of an 
Siemens Energy Diagnostic Services grow out of market 
need: the non-negotiable imperative to meet availability 
targets by keeping production assets running normally, and 
to be more proactive in fixing faults as and when they 
appear. The service is also based on long-term market 
experience, based on joint working between Siemens 
Energy and customers on more than 88,000 power genera-
tion sites worldwide. The entire approach has been tested, 
developed and refined to the point where outcomes are 
reliable and engagement has been made as simple as 
possible.08. Delivering the long-term benefitsanomaly is followed up rapidly, once the customer deter-
mines that a root cause analysis and recommendation for 
action is needed. Further issues are uncovered and rapidly 
dealt with. The total elapsed time devoted to this entire 
activity was just three days, meaning that the problem was 
resolved within a week of first being noticed. 
In this case, correct diagnosis of the problems took place 
directly after a planned outage, when the machine was 
restarted. The remedial measures taken ensured that it was 
able to connect to the grid as quickly as possible, avoiding 
loss of income.
Siemens Energy brings together advanced analytics to draw 
insights from large-scale sensor data flows, with world-class 
human skills, based at the heart of our organization. Togeth-
er, these resources are able to do what individual customers 
in many if not most cases cannot: identify root causes for 
any emerging issues and define the fastest, least disruptive 
way to address these. It’s one of a growing suite of services 
offered by Siemens Energy that enable customers to opti-
mize their processes, bear down hard on operating costs and 
develop the levels of flexibility needed to respond fast to 
evolving market demands.

Published by:
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Gas Services
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy Inc.
4400 Alafaya Trail
Orlando, F L 32826, USA
Article No. SVXX-B10003-00-7600
For more information, please visit our website: 
www.siemens-energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2025
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those 
described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly 
agreed upon in the concluded contract.
13Whitepaper  l Diagnostic services