 Page 1/3  
Press   
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  Munich , June 3, 2020  
 
Siemens supports Berlin with climate -friendly 
energy supply  
 
• Electricity and district heat ing for east ern part  of the capital  city 
• From Berlin for Berlin: Gas turbine from Siemens plant in Moabit  
• Highest efficiency through co generation  
• Maximum fuel efficiency of 92 percent  
 
Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG today officially commissioned the Berlin -Marzahn 
combined heat and power (CHP)  plant,  which was built by Siemens Gas and Power 
as general contractor. The Governing Mayor of Berlin, Michael Müller, and the Vice 
President of the German Bundestag, Petra Pau, visited the natural gas -fired 
combined cycle plant with district heating extraction. Together with Tanja Wielgoß, 
CEO of Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG, and Jochen Eickholt, member of the Managing 
Board of Siemens Energy, they inaugurated the new power plant. The combined 
heat and power plant is one of the most efficient in Europe and makes an  important 
contribution to Berlin's climate -neutral energy supply.  
 
The heart of the plant is a gas turbine manufactured at the Siemens plant in Berlin -
Moabit. The new combined heat and power plant uses cogeneration  and not only 
provides  electricity for u p to approximately one million inhabitants but can also 
supply around 150,000 Berlin households with environmentally friendly district 
heating. Together with the gas -fired plant in Klingenberg, it will form the backbone of 
the district heating supply in th e eastern part of Berlin with a total of 450,000 
households. The plant in Marzahn has an electrical capacity  of approximately 260 
megawatts (MW), a thermal capacity  of around 230 MW and a maximum fuel 
efficiency of 92 percent.  
 
 
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG 
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  
 
Reference number: HQGPPR202006025888EN  Werner -von-Siemens -Straße 1  
80333 Munich  
Germany  
  
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  Press Release  
 
Reference number:  HQGPPR202006025888EN  Page 2/3 "Normally we deliver our gas turbines all over the world. Today, however, we are 
pleased to be able to commission a gas turbine from Berlin for Berlin," said Jochen 
Eickholt, member of the Managing Board of Siemens Energy. "Siemens Energy is 
also at home h ere in Berlin  and we are an important employer here.  With the new 
combined heat and power plant, almost a quarter of a million tons of CO 2 are 
avoided each year, which corresponds to the typical emissions of around 125,000 
cars. This is how we support the capital on its individual path to climate neutrality."  
 
"With the symbolic commissioning of the Marzahn power  plant, we have taken a big 
step toward meeting the Paris climate protection goals by 2030 with the city of 
Berlin," explained Tanja Wielgoß, CEO o f Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG. “At the same 
time, a CHP  plant  like the one in Marzahn can play an important role in the currently 
hotly debated hydrogen strategy for Germany. The truth here, however, is that a lot 
of research and development still has to be  done so that this technology is actually 
future -proof for both heating and power supply.”  
 
 
This press release and press picture are available at  
https://sie.ag/2XSDP2O  
For further information on Siemens Gas and Power, please see 
www.siemens.com/energy  
For further information on combined heat and power , please see  
www.siemens.com/chp  
 
 
Contact for journalists  
Alfons Benzinger  
Phone:  +49 9131 17 34649 ; E-mail:  alfons.benzinger@siemens.com  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG  Press Release  
 
Reference number:  HQGPPR202006025888EN  Page 3/3 Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens group, which has been 
working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands of industry and society for more than 150 years. 
With planned stock listing, Siemens’ energy business will operate independe ntly as Siemens Energy in the future.  
It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a comprehensive portfolio for utilities, 
independent power producers, transmission system operators, the oil and gas industry, and other e nergy -intensive 
industries. With its products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, 
processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central and distributed thermal 
power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the energy transformation, including storage and sector -
coupling solutions. The majority stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future -oriented 
portfolio. With its commitment to leading the way i n decarbonization of the global energy system, Siemens Energy 
will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers on their path to a more sustainable future. 
With around 90,000 employees worldwide, Siemens Energy will help shape the energ y systems of today and 
tomorrow.  www.siemens.com . 