Press release 
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page 1 of 2 
 
Berlin, April 20, 2023 
Siemens Energy to supply technology for three 
offshore grid connections in the North Sea in 
billion-euro contract 
A consortium of Siemens Energy and Spain's Dragados Offshore has signed a framework agreement with 
German-Dutch transmission system operator TenneT to supply high-voltage direct current (HVDC) 
transmission technology for three grid connections in the German North Sea. The projects available 
through the agreement will ensure that a total of 6 gigawatts (GW) of offshore wind power can be 
transported onshore. The contract value for the consortium of Siemens Energy and Dragados Offshore  
is close to €7 billion. 
 
"In the global race against climate change, grid expansion must be able to keep pace with the accelerated 
expansion targets for renewable energies. Shorter contracting processes, large-scale tenders and 
standardization of solutions show how grid operators and manufacturers are already pulling together to get 
green energy to consumers faster," said Tim Holt, member of the Siemens Energy Executive Board. 
"However, in order for the industry to continue ramping up capacity, all available levers must now be 
pulled at the policy level as well - from raw material and skilled labor strategies to further streamlining 
permitting processes at all levels." 
 
The three grid connections, named BalWin3, LanWin2, and LanWin4, will transport electricity from wind 
farms in the German North Sea to grid connection points in the north of Germany. Each of the systems has 
a transmission capacity of two gigawatts. Siemens Energy will manufacture the main electrical components, 
such as switchgears, transformers and converter technologies, at its factories in Europe. The Spanish 
consortium partner Dragados Offshore is responsible for the construction and offshore installation of the 
platforms.  
 
Siemens Energy had already won major orders for the connection of wind farms in the German North Sea 
as recently as the end of 2022. With the three new projects, the company is currently handling 11 HVDC 
grid connection projects worldwide to connect wind farms in Germany, the UK and the US, and can look 
back on five completed projects in the German North Sea. Once the 11 ongoing projects are commissioned,  
Siemens Energy's HVDC technology will feed more than 19 GW of wind power into high-voltage grids 
worldwide. 
 
 Press release 
Press release 
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications 
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto-Hahn-Ring 6  
81739 Munich 
Germany 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page 2 of 2 
  
 
This is how wind power comes ashore with HVDC technology: 
 
Wind turbines generate electrical energy as alternating current. To transport the electricity from offshore 
wind farms onshore, it has to be converted into direct current. Siemens Energy's high-voltage direct-current 
transmission technology, which has been installed in offshore converter platforms, takes care of this. The 
platforms, steel structures as tall as houses that stand on stilts in the sea near the wind farms, collect the 
electricity from the wind turbines. Inside them, the alternating current is converted into direct current. 
Only in this way can more electricity be transported to land with reduced losses through cable systems, 
some of which are several hundred kilometers long. There, the onshore converter station receives the 
direct current and converts it back into alternating current so that it can be fed into the German high-
voltage grid and ultimately brought to consumers. 
 
Contact for journalists 
Ivonne Junghaenel 
Phone: +49 172 1026780 
E-mail: ivonne.junghaenel@siemens-energy.com  
 
This press release is available at www.siemensenergy.com/press   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy 
Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners 
on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, 
solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to 
storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power 
plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. A majority stake in the wind power subsidiary Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of 
the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 92,000 people 
worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022.  
www.siemens-energy.com . 
 