011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted   
 
 
 
 
011-00688_App_2   Fix Manufacturing or 
Repair Method  
 
Guidance for completion of the Method 
Verification  Approval ( MVA) Form  
 
Issue 2 
 
 
 
 
Part A.  
 
Part A provides a record of the proposal, its verification requirement and its disposition. 
Completion of part A1 & A2 is carried out by the supplier Manufacturing Engineering. It is 
required for all classified parts regardless where the part is being manu factured. Completion of 
part A3 is carried out by the Siemens Task Owner.  
 
Part B.  
 
Part B is completed for all classified parts and is completed according to Work Instruction 011 - 
00688. It defines the required verification and the rationale for the requi rements.  
 
Part C.  
 
Part C is completed for all classified parts and is completed according to Work Instruction 011 - 
00688. It records the conclusions of the review of the verification results and the rationale for the 
conclusions.  
 
Revision History  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     eQMS+ 011-00688 & EBQR (Rev 2) B1.19 
Export Control Declaration   
Method Verification  Appro val 
 
A3 Siemens Document Reference     Rev  
 
A2 
 
Vendors Document Reference  
A4 
 
Part A1: DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL AND SUPPORTING DATA  
Process  for Request  for Affecting   
 
 
Siemens Task Owner  
 
Prime  Supplier  name  Vendor  code  Part Classification  
A9 A10 A11 
 
Fixed Process reference   
Revision   
DAR/Concession/RCI  reference  
A12 A13 A14 
 
Part number  Part name  Product/marque or  model  
A15 A16 A17 
 
Repair  schemes/Service  bulletins  Maintenance  plan Engine Manual chapter/section/Figure  item 
 
 
Details of the  request:  A18 A19 A20 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For change of source / method the PA form(eQMS+ 011-00609 / EBQR B1.19 ) reference 
is:  
A22 A23 
Number  of  continuation sheets  
Similar or previous request references  :  
A2: Reason  for the proposal  and supporting  data 
Comments  A24 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
A26 
 
 
 
Date submitted 
Initiator name   
 
A27  
 
 
Implementation target date 
Telephone number   
 
A28 
Email address for correspondence   
Continued  
A29 A30 A31 
Part A3: RELEASE OF THE PRODUCTION METHOD / FIXED PROCESS  
The Production Method / Fixed Process  is:  
 
 
Comments  Approved.  Approved with  limitations.  Rejected.  Withdrawn.  
 
  
 
Task owner name and job  title Signature  Date  
 
 
 
Distribution   
A37 A33 A25 A21 A1 
A7 A8 
A32 
A36 A5 A6 
A34 A35 

011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Part A: Proposal  
 
Part A provides a record of the proposal, its verification requirement and its disposition. Completion of 
part A1 & A2 is carried out by the supplier Manufacturing Engineering. It is required for all classified 
parts regardless where the part is being manu factured. Completion of part A3 is carried out by the 
Siemens Task Owner.  
 
Annotation A1:  Siemens  Document  reference  Return  
 
This is the unique identifier used within Siemens manufacturing plants to identify the production method 
verification and Method Verification  Approval request form. The Siemens Local Control Authority 
allocates this reference for requests orig inating in the external supply chain.  
 
Annotation  A2:  Rev. Return  
 
In some circumstances requests are modified. In these circumstances use this box to add a revision 
reference.  
 
Annotation A3:   Export  Control Declaration  Return  
 
The initiator uses this b ox to declare if there is any Export Controlled data in the form or supporting 
documentation. Internal plants must follow their own local policy to determine the Export Control rating. If 
Export Controlled information or data is associated with the verific ation then the requirements of each 
sites local policy must be followed. If in doubt contact the local Export Control officer.  
 
Annotation A4:  Vendors  document  reference  Return  
 
This is not used for Siemens domestic manufacture. This is the unique identifier used by an external 
Supplier to identify the method verification request.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Part A1: Verification Requirements –Manufacturing Engineering 
assessment  
 
Annotation A5:  Process  for Return  
 
Use the drop -down list to select the category of the process. The available categories are: - 
 
• New manufacture. Select this if the process to be fixed is to create a part from raw 
materials.  
• Repair – Select this if the method is any sort of repair, not just  a repair that requires 
Engineering control in accordance with RRES90000 (i.e. Controlled Book Repairs, 
Overhaul Procedures, Critical  Repairs).  
• Overhaul and Test - activities performed associated with Overhaul and Testing of an 
engine.  
 
 
Annotation A6:  Request  for Return  
 
Use the drop down list to indicate the nature of the proposal. The options are:  
• Baseline (New method/Fixed process). A Baseline is a new production method against 
which subsequent changes will be evaluated for equivalenc e in result. For a new part 
number or a change of source to a new Direct Supplier (Siemens operations or a first tier 
supplier) select  Baseline.  
• Source change. Select this option if there is to be a source change with no intended 
change in method. (example machine A to machine B with all parameters remaining the 
same)  
• Method change. Select this option for a method change with no change in location.  
(example change of machining or data card parameters, or change of sequence of 
operations)  
• Source and method change. (combination of the two  above)  
 
Annotation  A7:  Affecting  Return  
 
Use the drop -down list option of “Multiple applications” to indicate tha t the impact of the proposal is on a 
material (e.g. a billet) that could be used to produce as yet unidentified part numbers, or if the change is 
to a manufacturing process (e.g. a change to an Non Destructive Engineering (NDE) process) that would 
affect a ll parts produced at the source.  
 
Select the option “Affecting Specific parts/repairs if the impact of the proposal is limited to a set of 
identifiable part numbers. For a “Baseline” proposal (i.e. new part) this may be left blank.  
 
Annotation A8:  Siemens  Task  Owner  Return  
 
The Siemens Task Owner is the responsible PPQ Leader  within Siemens. As such this will only be 
filled out by Siemens upon receipt of the MVA . 
 
Annotation A9: Prime  Supplier name  Return  
 
This is the name of the Supplier with delivery responsibility for the component (referred to as the “Direct 
Supplier” in RRES90000) and is therefore documenting the Fixed Process. Enter the name (together 
with their product and process codes)  
 
For Siemens domestic man ufacture the plant name is sufficient.  
 
For tiered supply chains the supplier whom the Siemens Purchase Order is against is accountable for 
initiating the proposal, that is, acts as the interface with the Control Authorities. No sub -tier should 
directly su bmit an MVA  to Siemens.  
 
Annotation A10: Vendor  Code  Return  
 
Enter the vendor code as listed on the Purchase Order.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Annotation A11: Part Classification  Return  
 
Use the drop down  list to select the correct classification from the options provided. The classification of 
the part will be found on the drawing.  
 
For certain legacy parts no classification may have been defined. In this case use the “legacy” or “legacy 
rotating” classif ication or if in doubt leave blank.  
 
Annotation A12 :Fixed Process  reference  Return  
 
This is the unique identifier used for the Fixed Process Document (FPD) itself.  
 
Annotation A13: Revision  Return  
 
This is the revision number for the Fixed Process Document being submitted for approval. For new parts 
this will be “baseline”. Subsequent changes will index through 1, 2, 3… or A, B, C… etc.  
 
For a new Fixed Process Document on an existing part (e.g. from a change of source) begin the index at 
1 or A etc . 
 
Annotation A14: DAR/Concession/RCI  reference  Return  
 
If the MVA  is being raised as part of an investigation supporting alteration to a drawing or Engine 
Manual Instruction (e.g. to introduce an alternative manufacturing process) insert the tracking number of 
the Drawing Alteration Request; the tracking number is suppl ied by the DAR controller), Concession 
Request or Resolve Customer Issues (RCI) as applicable into this box.  
 
The MVA  is in effect a specialist signature supporting the DAR investigation (like, for example, a stress 
assessment) so providing the MVA  has the tracking number from the DAR investigator as evidence of 
an authorised DAR investigation the MVA should be processed with the result fed back into the DAR 
process.  
 
Annotation A15: Part Number  Return  
 
Enter the finished part number and/or any semi -finished product (e.g. forging or casting) impacted by the 
change. Leave blank if the change is a generic material or process or source change, see annotation A7.  
 
Note Siemens mandates one part number for MVA  form. For similar changes over multipl e parts a 
suite of MVA ’s shall be submitted.  
 
Annotation A16: Part Name  Return  
 
Enter the name of the finished part or semi -finished product (e.g. forging or castings) impacted by the 
change. Leave blank if the change is a generic material or process ch ange, see annotation A7.  
 
Annotation A17: Product/marque  or model  Return  
 
Enter the Products(s) including variant that will be impacted by the change. This is used to identify the 
relevant Chief Engineer Product Change Board. It is acceptable for the supplier to leave this blank, 
however the Task Owner shall fill this out before  the MVA is reviewed.  
 
Annotation A18 :Repair  schemes/Service  Bulletins  Return  
 
Applicable to Repair processes only. For new product manufacture mark with N/A.  
 
For Repair if implementation is associated with a specific Repair Scheme or Service Bulletin t hen insert 
the applicable number here to ensure traceability.  
 
Annotation  A19:Maintenance  Plan Return  
 
A Maintenance Plan (also known as a Route card) is a document that travels with the product within a 
Repair & Overhaul facility.  
 
Record the applicable Maintenance Plan Number associated with the requested change.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Annotation A20: Engine manual  chapter/section/Fig  item Return  
 
Record the associated Chapter/Section/Fig Item from the Engine Manual applicable to the component 
subject to the change i.e. 72 -31-16-01210. It is acceptable for the supplier to leave this blank, however 
the Task Owner shall fill this out before the MVA is reviewed.  
 
Annotation A21: Details of  the request  Return  
 
For new parts (“baseline” see annotation A6) this may be left blank.  
 
For a source and/ or method change enter a summary, in plain English free of acronyms and jargon, 
of all the differences betw een the current and proposed production method. In particular  
• For a source and/or method change, reference the associated eQMS+ 011 -00609 
Preliminary Assessment (PA) using the box at the bottom of the section (annotation  A22).  
• Cite changes to order of oper ations, machining techniques and process parameters. If the 
order of operations has changed provide an overview of operation sequence in the current 
and proposed manufacturing  method.  
• List any changes to Special Processes and their data cards, referencing their revisions 
and including  copies.  
• For stock materials (e.g. forging stock, casting stock, powder, bar, plate, rings) state the 
current and proposed  forms.  
• Declare that parts of the manufacturing method that are not cited will not  change.  
 
Annotation A22: For a change of source/ method the PA form reference  is Return  
 
For a new part production method verification enter “Not Applicable”.  
 
For a change to metho d and/or production source enter the reference number for the Gate -0 Preliminary 
Assessment form (eQMS+ 011 -00609 / EBQR A4.2). This may provide further background information 
that will influence verification, for instance non -conformance history or servic e issues.  
 
Annotation A23: Number of  continuation  sheets  Return  
 
Mark the continuation box if the continuation sheet is being used to record further detail. If the 
continuation sheet is used be sure to use headings in the continuation sheet to indicate what section of 
the MVA the information refers to.  
 
Annotation A24: Similar or previous  request  references  Return  
 
If similar requests have been made in the past enter the reference number of previous requests (from 
annotation A1). These may be used to identify potential read -across data that could influence the 
verification requirements.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Part A2: Reason for the proposal and supporting data  
 
Annotation  A25: Comments  Return  
 
List the reasons why the change is required.  
• Quality  improvements  
• Greater operational  flexibility  
• Cost improvements, whether it be unit or operational  cost 
 
Annotation  A26: Continued  Return  
 
Mark the continuation box if the continuation sheet is being used to record further detail. If the 
continuation sheet is used be sure to use headings in the continuatio n sheet to indicate what section of 
the MVA the information refers to.  
 
Annotation A27: Date submitted  Return  
 
Enter the date.  
 
Annotation A28: Implementation  target  date Return  
 
Enter the date when it is planned to implement the production method should approval be given. Enter 
“no schedule” if there is currently no planned manufacture.  
 
Annotation A29: Initiator  name  Return  
 
Enter the name of the person in the supplier that has initiated the proposal and could be contacted for 
discussions on business aspects of the request for production method verification.  
 
Annotation A30: Telephone number  Return  
 
Enter the telephone number for the Initiator of the verification request (annotation A29). Ensure that they 
are legible.  
 
Annotatio n A31: Email address  for correspondence  Return  
 
Enter the e -mail contact details for the Initiator of the verification request (annotation A29). Ensure that 
they are legible.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Part A3: Release of the proposed Fixed Process/ Production Method  
Section A3 confirms that all required verification actions have been completed the disposition of the 
production verification is properly made and releases the results of verification of the production method 
to eQMS+ 011 -00688.  
 
The Siem ens task owner completes Part A3 after the proposed production method has been sentenced 
by the provision of a completed verification report and completion of part C1 or C2. It is a notification to 
the Supplier of the sentencing of the MVA request. This section cannot be completed until a Fixed 
Process has been sentenced by the relevant Control Authorities.  
 
Annotation A32 : The Production Method/ Fixed  Process  is: Return  
 
The PPQ Leader should use the tick boxes to indicate the results of the review of verification evidence. 
This includes results from verification specified in Part B and the conclusions of specialists from part C if 
that was required. The options are: - 
 
• Approved:  
Indicate s that the MVA form shows agreement from the Local Control Authority and/or 
Engineering Control Authority that the FPD gives satisfactory assurance that the design intent 
will be delivered by the defined manufacturing process and control plan.  
• Approved with  limitations:  
Indicates that the Fixed Process has been approved by the relevant Control Authorities but 
limitations have been applied e.g. for a limited number of parts to be produced. The details of 
the limitation must accompany the MVA form back to the Supplier using the comment box, 
annotation A43.  
• Rejected  : 
Indicates that the MVA form does not show agreement from the Local Control Authority 
and/or Engineering Control Authority that the FPD gives satisfactory assurance that the 
design intent will be delivered by the defined manufacturing process and control plan.  
• Withdrawn:  
Indicates that the Supplier has withdrawn the Fixed Process from consideration for approval. 
This may have happened for instance because of problems with yield or di mensional errors. 
Record the reason for withdrawal in the comment box, annotation A33.  
 
Annotation  A33: Comment  Return  
 
Use this to convey any instructions for disposition of parts. For example  a description of what has 
happened to any parts made for verification purposes. For instance, they may have had temporary part 
numbers to prevent their delivery to finished part stores but are now available for release, the Fixed 
Process having been appro ved, or are to be scrapped in the case of a Fixed Process not being 
approved.  
 
When a Definition Alteration is required state here that the revised definition must be issued before the 
revised Fixed Process is implemented.  
 
Annotation A34: Task owner name and  job title Return  
 
Enter the name and job title of the Siemens task owner. The Siemens task owner is an individual who 
has demonstrated the competence (behavioural, technical and process) and is authorised to approve 
documentation within the scope of their PPQ authorisation.  
 
Annotation A35: Signature  Return  
 
This is the signature of the person from annotation A32.  
 
Annotation  A36: Date  Return  
 
Enter the date on which the Fixed Process Document was sentenced at part C1 or part C2 if applicable. 
Annotation A37: Distribution  Return  
Add a list of people that have been sent a copy of the Method Verification  Approval form.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  
 
. B5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                          eQMS+  011-00688  & EBQR  (Rev 1) B1.19  
    Method Verification  Approval  Siemens Doc ument Reference  Rev  
 
B2 
Part B1: VERIFICATION REQUIREMENTS - Local Control Authority assessment  
Assessment:  
 
 
 
 
 
B4 
 
Continued  
 
 
Verify.      Engineering  Control  Authority  Approval  Required  Reject.  
Verification requirements: (Limited production parts must not be released to stores)  
 
 
 
 
B7 
 
 
 
Local  Control  Authority  member  name  and job title  
 
 
Signature   
Continued 
Date  
B8 B9 B10 
 
Local  Control  Authority  chair  name  and job title Signature  Date  
 
Part B2: VERIFICATION REQUIREMENTS  - Engineering Control Authority assessment  
Assessment:  
 
 
 
 
 
B15 
 
Enginee ring Control Authority decision :   
 
B16  
Continued  
Verify.  
Verification  requirements:  Verify  and delegate  assessment  of results  to Local Control  Authority  Reject.  
 
 
 
  
 
B18 
 
 
 
Engineering  Control  Authority  member  name  and job title  
 
 
Signature   
Continued 
Date  
B19 B20 B21 
 
Critical  parts  and lifing  member  name  and job title Signature  Date  
B22 B23 B24 
 
Engineering  Control  Authority  chair  name  and job title Signature  Date  B17 B3 
B6 
B14 B1 
B11 B12 B13 
B25 B26 B27 

011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Part B: Risk Assessment and Verification Requirements.  
Part B records the assessment of the risk that the proposed Fixed Process will not deliver the design 
intent together with the consequent work that will be needed to verify the proposed Fixed Process. Parts 
B1 and B2 are completed by the Local Control Authority (LCA) and the Engineering Control Authority 
(ECA) respectively for characteristics that cannot be verified by inspection during or after production.  
 
Annotations B1  & B2: Siemens  Document  Reference  Return  
 
See annotations A1 & A2 respectively.  
 
Part B1: Risk Assessment and Verification Requirements – Local 
Control Authority Assessment:  
Annotation B3:  Assessment  Return  
 
To be filled out by Siemens mater ials engineer and PPQ Leader . 
For change proposals:  
Describe the effect of the proposed Fixed Process on the component e.g. surface finish, dimension fit 
within acceptable band, run outs, cusps, effects on underlying material proper ties, likelihood and 
consequence of non -conformance to manufacturing output.  
 
What is the assessment of the proposed manufacturing capability (new method and /or source)? State 
the reasoning behind this assessment e.g. demonstrated capability on new parts.  
 
For forgings and castings what is the opinion of a specialist in these areas?  
 
What technical risks are there associated with the Fixed Process and who was involved in assessing 
them?  
 
State the rationale and evidence to justify the risk ranking decision and the Local Control Authority’s 
sentencing decision.  
 
If the people entering comments in B3 are not the same for B5 through B13, comments must be 
annotated with the name of who made the comments with their signature.  
 
Annotation B4:  Continued  Return  
 
Mark the continuation box if the continuation sheet is being used to record further detail. If the 
continuation sheet is used be sure to use headings in the continuation sheet to indicate what section of 
the MVA the information refers to.  
 
Annotat ion B5:  LCA Decision:  Return  
 
Use the tick boxes to indicate the decision of the Local Control Authority. The available options are: - 
 
• Verify  
Select this option if the Local Control Authority considers that verification work is justified to 
evaluate the proposed Fixed Process. Verification work is justified if the risk that the proposed 
verification results would lead to the proposed method being rejected is low.  
The technical risks associated with the change must present a low risk to compon ent integrity, 
performance or reliability (refer to the rules in step 1 and 3 of eQMS+ 011 -00688 work 
instruction ). 
The Local Control Authority may recommend that parts could be manufactured “at risk” ahead of 
the Fixed Process approval to provide items fo r a verification programme or in order to meet 
production schedules. This recommendation should be recorded here together with the rationale 
and any limitations to quantities.  
Any such recommendation should consider the risk to delivery schedules. External  suppliers 
must accept the risk that the parts may be scrapped and that they will not be paid for them 
unless explicitly agreed with Siemens via a Purchase Order. The approval to manufacture 
parts “at risk” is taken as a project management decision as part  of eQMS+ 011 -00609  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  gate 1 Parts must not be allowed to proceed to stores until the production method is 
approved so that effective systems must be in place to identify and segregate them.  
• Engineering Control Authority Approval  Required  
Select this option if the Local Control Authority considers that the change presents more than a 
low risk to component integrity, performance or reliability but verification actions will probably 
establish that the hazard is not present and that therefore Engineering Control Authority input is 
required to evaluate the proposal.  
• Reject.  
Select this option if the Local Control Authority considers that the technical risks associated with 
the change cannot be effectively mitigated or the verification results ar e likely to lead to a 
rejection of the method. No further work will be carried out to evaluate the Fixed Process.  
 
Annotation B6 : Verification  requirements  Return  
 
List the actions the Local Control Authority considers necessary to verify that the proposal will satisfy the 
design intent for new parts or that the change to the Fixed Process will maintain equivalence of parts 
produced by the new FPD with those produced by the previous FPD.  
 
State any actions to evaluate items currently being produced e.g. Last Article Inspection. All of the 
verification actions necessary to demonstrate a sufficiently low probability of the proposed Fixed Process 
producing an adverse impact on design intent must be capable of evaluation against objective pass -fail 
criteria e.g. comparison against a standard.  
 
State any actions to demonstrate process capability.  
 
Note: A PPQ should not be specified as a verification action here since this is specified in Part A3. The 
primary purpose of sections B & C (the MVA) is to co nsider risks to characteristics that cannot 
practically be verified by inspection e.g. material condition; the PPQ  process considers conformance to 
all aspects of the component specification including dimensions. In practice both processes will operate 
in parallel so to avoid extra work the information requested for MVA approval should be in the format 
suitable for the PPQ  pack.  
 
Annotation B7:  Continued  Return  
 
Mark the continuation box if the continuation sheet is being used to record further detail.  If the 
continuation sheet is used be sure to use headings in the continuation sheet to indicate what section of 
the MVA the information refers to.  
 
Annotation B8:  LCA member Name and  job title.  Return  
 
Enter the name and title of any other person included in the Local Control Authority in addition to the 
Local Control Authority chair. If there is more than one person enter their details on the continuation 
sheet.  
 
Annotation B9:  Signature  Return  
 
This is the signature of the person from annotation B8.  
 
Annotation  B10: Date  Return  
 
Enter the date of the signature made at annotation B9.  
 
Annotation B11: LCA Chair Name and  job Title Return  
 
Enter the name of the Local Control chair and their Job title and ensure that it is legible.  
 
Annotati on B12: Signature  Return  
 
The Local Control Authority chair signs here as the accountable signatory for the Local Control Authority. 
Annotation  B13: Date  Return  
Enter the date when the signature at annotation B12 was made.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Part B2: Risk Assessment and Verification Requirements – 
Engineering Control Authority Assessment  
This part records the Engineering Control Authority (ECA) assessment of the risk associated with the 
risk and the actions that will provide the evidence that the propo sed Fixed Process will be satisfactory. 
For new parts see rules for membership of the Engineering Control Authority at step 2 and 4 of 
eQMS+ 011 -00688 work instruction . 
 
Annotation  B14: Comments  Return  
 
Use this section records any additional risks perceived by the ECA to those recorded by the LCA in part 
B1. For example, such risks may come from knowledge of performance in service or knowledge of 
similar parts at other suppliers.  
 
Annotation B15: Continued  Return  
 
Mark the continuation box if the co ntinuation sheet is being used to record further detail. If the 
continuation sheet is used be sure to use headings in the continuation sheet to indicate what section of 
the MVA the information refers to.  
 
Annotation B16: ECA decision  Return  
 
Use the drop -down list to indicate the decision of the Engineering Control Authority. The available 
options are: - 
 
• Verify  
Select this option to signify that the Engineering Control Authority agrees with the Local Control 
Authority decision that work is justified to evaluate the proposed Fixed Process.  
The Engineering Control Authority may confirm the Local Control Authority assessment 
(annotation B5) that parts could be manufactured “at risk” ahead of the Fixed Process approval 
to provide items for a ver ification programme or in order to meet production schedules. This 
confirmation should be recorded here.  
The approval to manufacture parts “at risk” is taken as a project management decision as 
part of eQMS+ 011 -00609 gate 1 Parts must not be allowed to pr oceed to stores until the 
production method is approved so that effective systems must be in place to identify and 
segregate them.  
• Verify and delegate assessment of results to  LCA 
For new parts leave blank since the review of verification evidence cannot b e delegated to the 
Local Control Authority.  
For change proposals select this option if the Engineering Control Authority is content that the 
Local Control Authority can review any verification evidence and sentence the change . See 
rules at step 4 of eQMS+ 011 -00688 work instruction for restrictions on Local Control 
Authority to sentence change.  
• Reject  
Select this option to reject the proposal to adopt the new Fixed Process if the Engineering 
Control Authority considers that th e technical risks associated with the proposal cannot be 
effectively mitigated. No further work will be carried out to evaluate the Fixed Process.  
 
Annotation B17: Verification actions  Return  
 
A verification programme  is always required for new parts. 
For change proposals:  
• If the Engineering Control Authority considers that there additional or different verification 
requirements to those proposed by the Local Control Authority use this box to detail these 
additional re quirements. Record why evidence from the verification actions or evidence read 
across from previous changes will be satisfactory to demonstrate mitigation of risk. 
• Write “None” in this box if the verification proposals of the Local Control Authority are co nsidered 
adequate to demonstrate that parts will remain equivalent after the  change.  
 
Note: A PPQ should not be specified as a verification action since the PPQ  cannot be completed until 
the Fixed Process is approved so a circular logic is introduced. In stead think about what  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  information/requirement of interest would be evaluated in the process of putting together the PPQ  and 
directly ask for that information/evaluation to be supplied as evidence.  
 
Annotation B18: Continued  Return  
 
Mark  the continuation box if the continuation sheet is being used to record further detail. If the 
continuation sheet is used be sure to use headings in the continuation sheet to indicate what section of 
the MVA the information refers to.  
 
Annotation B19 : ECA member Name and  Job Title Return  
 
Enter the name and job titles of the persons that have been involved in the review. Ensure that they are 
legible. The Chief Engineers and other specialists sign here if they have been involved in the review.  
Select the yes option in the continued box (Annotation B 18) and use the continuation sheet to record 
extra names if there are more names than provision is made for here.  
 
Annotation  B20: Signature  Return  
 
Enter the signature of the person from ann otation B19. Select the yes option in the continued box 
(Annotation B 18) and use the continuation sheet to record extra signatures if there are more signatures 
than provision is made for here.  
 
Annotation  B21: Date  Return  
 
Enter the date the signature at annotation B20 was made.  
 
Annotation B22: Critical parts and lifing member name and  job title Return  
 
Enter the name and job title of  the critical parts and lifing member. Ensure that it is legible.      
Annotation B23: Signature  Return  
Enter the signature of the person identified at annotation B22.  
 
Annotation  B24: Date  Return  
 
Enter the date the signature at annotation B23 was made.  
 
Annotation B25: ECA chair name  and title  Return  
 
Enter the name and job title of the Engineering Control Authority Chair. Ensure that it is legible. 
Annotation B26: Signature  Return  
Enter the signature of the person identified at annotation B25.  
 
Annotation  B27: Date  Return  
 
Enter the date the signature at annotation B26 was made.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  
C9 C10 
C19 C18  
 
 
 
 
 
 
eQMS+  011-00688  & EBQR  (Rev 1) B4.7  
Method Verification Approval  Siemens Document Reference   Rev  
 
C2 
Part C1: REVIEW AND SENTENCING OF VERIFICATION EVIDENCE - Local Control Authority  
Comments:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C4 
 
 
 
Approved.   
C5 
Approved with limitations.   
Continued  
 
 
Engineering  Control  Authority  Approval  Required  Rejected.  
Local  Control  Authority  member  name  and job title Signature  Date  
C6 C7 C8 
 
Local  Control  Authority  chair  name  and job title Signature  Date  
 
Part C2: REVIEW AND SENTENCING OF VERIFICATION EVIDENCE - Engineering Control Authority  
Comments:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C13 
 
 
Engineering Control Authority decis ion :  
Approved.   
 
C14  
 
 
Approved  with limitations.   
Continued  
 
 
Rejected.  
Engineering  Control  Authority  member  name  and job title Signature  Date  
C15 C16 C17 
 
Critical  parts  and lifing  member  name  and job title Signature  Date  
 
Engineering  Control  Authority  chair  name  and job title Signature  Date  
C21 C22 C23 C3 
C12 C1 
C11 
C20 

011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Part C:  
Part C of the form is used to record the evaluation of evidence from any actions proposed in part B. 
Annotation C1 & C2 : Siemens reference for this request  & Rev Return  
See annotations A1 & A2 respectively.  
 
Part C1: Review of verification evidence –Local Control Authority  
Annotation C3:  LCA Assessment comments:  Return  
 
For change proposals use this box to record the rationale for reaching the decision made. Reference any 
supporting documents or reports and ensure that any such material will be retrievable as a category A 
record.  
 
Annotation  C4: Continued  Return  
 
If the continuation sheet is being used to record further information  use the drop -down list to indicate yes 
or select no if this is not the case. If the continuation sheet is used be sure to use headings in the 
continuation sheet to indicate what section of the MVA the information refers to.  
 
Annotation C5:  LCA Decision  Return  
 
Use the tick boxes to indicate the decision of the Local Control Authority. The available options are: - 
 
• Approved  
For change proposals select this option if the Local Control Authority considers that the 
verification evidence meets the requirement s defined in part B.  
See rules at step 4 of eQMS+ 011 -00688 work instruction for restrictions on Local Control 
Authority to sentence change.  
Approval by the Local Control Authority is permissible only if: - 
o Assessment is against defined pass/fail criteria such as microstructural  standards  
o There are no safety policy or other restrictions (e.g. from Engineering Standards) 
that require approval from other  signatories.  
o No test programme or parts were required,  
o There is no need to change to a  drawing  
Note: Changes to unit cost or changes to recurring and non -recurring costs (e.g. tooling and 
gauging) will need approval of the commercial risks associated with source and method change 
by operating eQMS+ 01100609 Control Production system change.  
• Approved  with limitations  
Select this option if the decision is to approve the proposed FPD for a defined quantity, batch or 
time period only. The serial numbers, batch numbers, or time period (respectively) must be 
clearly defined in part A3 of the form. The Fix Manufacturing or repair method Work Instruction 
prohibits the use of a Limited Approval MVA in place of a Concession application. This option 
can be used under a variety of situations such as: - 
o A Supplier may decide not to pursue a requested change beca use the process did 
not deliver the expected business benefit and the sample parts conform to drawing 
and equivalence requirements. The FPD must be retained on file and no drawing 
changes are  permissible.  
o Acceptable hardware is available and is required pr ior to having a final detail 
(editorial) in the FPD completed. The parts may conform to the drawing via an 
approved Concession Application, but additional work is required and proven before 
final acceptance. Once all required data is obtained the Limited A pproval can be 
revised to a full approval by submission of a change proposal in the normal  way. 
• Engineering Control Authority Approval  Required  
Select this option to signify that ECA input is needed to sentence the change. This may be 
because:  
o The proposal  has the potential to effect the equivalence of fit, form or function and 
so was forwarded to the Engineering Control Authority in part B (see annotation  B5). 
o The verification evidence does not have an objective pass/fail  criterion.  
o The verification evidence does not meet the defined criteria (i.e. reject decision) but 
the LCA considers that the ECA may nevertheless assess the Fixed Process as 
being  satisfactory.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  • Rejected  
Select this option if the Local Control Autho rity considers that verification evidence cannot meet 
the requirements defined in part B. Improvement activities may be appropriate followed by 
resubmission of verification evidence for the revised Fixed Process.  
 
Annotation C6: LCA member name  and Title Return  
 
Enter the name and title of any other person included in the LCA in addition to the LCA chair. If there is 
more than one person enter their details on the continuation sheet section. Ensure that these details are 
legible.  
 
Annotation  C7: Signature  Return  
 
This is the signature of the person from annotation C6.  
 
Annotation  C8: Date  Return  
 
Enter the date of the signature at annotation C7.  
 
Annotation C9:  LCA Chair Name  and Title Return  
 
Enter the name of the Local Control Authority chair and their Job title. Ensure that these are legible. 
Annotation  C10:  Signature  Return  
This is the signature of the person in Annotation C7.  
 
Annotation  C11:  Date  Return  
 
Enter the date of the signature at annotation C10.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Part C2: Review of verification evidence – Engineering Control 
Authority  
This part is used to record the ECA evaluation of evidence from any actions proposed in part B. 
Annotation C12: ECA Assessment  comments  Return  
Use this box to record the rationale for reaching the decision on how to sentence the proposed Fixed 
Process.  
 
Annotation  C13:  Continued  Return  
 
If the continuation sheet is being used to record further information use the drop -down list to indicate yes 
or sel ect no if this is not the case. If the continuation sheet is used be sure to use headings in the 
continuation sheet to indicate what section of the MVA the information refers to.  
 
Annotation C14: ECA decision:  Return  
 
See the rules at step 4 of eQMS+ 011 -00688 work instruction for restrictions on Engineering 
Control Authority to sentence change.  
 
Use the tick boxes to indicate the decision of the Engineering Control Authority. The available options 
are:- 
 
• Approved  
For a  new part enter a mark in this box if, after reviewing the verification evidence from part B, it 
is considered that the proposed Fixed Process will deliver the design intent.  
For change request enter a mark in this box if, after reviewing the verification evidence from part 
B, it is considered that the proposed change will maintain the equivalence of the part.  
• Approved with  limitations  
Select this option if the decision is to approve the proposed FPD for a defined quantity, batch or 
time period only. The serial numbers, batch numbers, or time period (respectively) must be 
clearly defined in part A3 of the form. The Fix Manufacturing or r epair method Work Instruction 
prohibits the use of a Limited Approval MVA in place of a Concession application. This option 
can be used under a variety of situations such as: - 
o A Supplier may decide not to pursue a requested change because the process di d 
not deliver the expected business benefit and the sample parts conform to drawing 
and equivalence requirements. The FPD must be retained on file and no drawing 
changes are  permissible.  
o Acceptable hardware is available and is required prior to having a fi nal detail 
(editorial) in the FPD completed. The parts may conform to the drawing via an 
approved Concession Application, but additional work is required and proven before 
final acceptance. Once all required data is obtained the Limited Approval can be 
revised to a full approval by submission of a change proposal in the normal  way. 
• Rejected  
Select this option for a new part if, after reviewing the verification evidence, it is considered that 
the proposed Fixed Process will not deliver the design intent.  
Select this option for a change request if, after reviewing the verification evidence, it is 
considered that the proposed change will not maintain the equivalence of the part to the original 
approved (e.g. certified) definition.  
 
Annotation C15: ECA member name and  Job title Return  
 
Enter the name and job titles of the persons that have been involved in the review. The Chief Engineers 
and other specialists sign here if they have been involved in the review. Ensure that details are legible.  
 
Select yes in the drop -down list in the continuation box (annotation C13) and use the continuation sheet 
to record extra signatures if there are more signatures than provision is made for here.  
 
Annotation  C16:  Signature  Return  
 
Enter the signature of the person identified in box C15.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Annotation  C17:  Date  Return  
 
Enter the date the signature at annotation C16 was made.  
 
Annotation C18: Critical parts and lifing member name and  job title Return  
 
Enter the name and job title of  the critical  parts and lifing member. Ensure that it is legible.      
Annotation  C19:  Signature  Return  
Enter the signature of the person identified at annotation C18.  
 
Annotation  C20:  Date  Return  
 
Enter the date the signature at annotation C19 was made.  
 
Annotation C21 : ECA chair name and  job title Return  
 
Enter the name and job title of the Engineering Control Authority Chair. Ensure that this is legible. 
Annotation  C22:  Signature  Return  
This is the signature of the person from annotation C21.  
 
Annotation  C23:  Date  Return  
 
Enter the date at which the signature at annotation C22 was made.  
011-00688_App_2   Rev 7/2017 Confidential © Siemens company  2017 All Rights Reserved   
Restricted  Revision  History  Return  
 
Issue  Date  Reason for issue  
1 06Jan2017  First Issue as part of the Siemens electronic Quality Management System  
2 27Nov2020  Minor changes incorporated FPA to MVA  and PPQ Leaders  
 