   
 
   
 Page  1 of 1 
 
 
 
Subject:  EBQR Update to Version 3 – April 2022  
Originator:  Cristina Curceanu  NTS number: SC03 1 
Issue: 001  
Job Title:  Supplier Quality Head   
Product Line:  Aero Derivative Gas Turbine (AGT)  Date:  May-02-2022  
Siemens Business Unit:  Siemens Energy Canada Limited   
For the attention of the Quality Director / Manager  
Dear Sir or Madam  
Introduction . This Notice to Suppliers (“NTS”) covers the latest update to the Energy Business Quality 
Requirements (“EBQR”) for all Siemens Energy (“SE”) for Aeroderivative Gas Turbine (“AGT”) Suppliers, 
Maintenance Repair Overhaul Centres and Repair Vendors (“Supplier s”). The SE EBQR version 3 document is 
the SE Supplier quality guidelines for all AGT Suppliers, the document is aligned with ISO 9001:2015, 
(International Standard for Quality Management System Requirements).  
Scope/Applicability .The purpose of the EBQR i s to formally communicate the SE Supplier quality guidelines 
and expectations to the global AGT supply chain. In this latest version of the EBQR there are additional 
requirements unique to SE AGT which our Suppliers are expected to adhere to in conjunction  with ISO 
9001:2015 clauses 1 – 10. This alignment with ISO 9001:2015 will enable Suppliers to align the EBQR with 
their own QSHE systems more efficiently.  
Action Required . EBQR version 3 incorporates a combination of version 1, and version 2 relevant top ics in 
addition the Introduction of new requirements that include: Foreign Object Debris (“FOD”), UK Conformity 
Assessed Marking (“UKCA”), and Counterfeit Fraudulent Suspect Items (“CFSI”). A Correlation Matrix Annex 
A1 shows the content changes from previ ous versions (version 1 and version 2) to the current version 3, with 
the aim to enable Suppliers to quickly establish their own correlation and compliance matrices.  
Link to Document: This new version of the document is available on the SE supplier portal  within the AGT 
section. If you require further information, please contact your in country regional supplier quality 
representatives.  
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/company/about/supply -chain -management/supplier 
information.html  
With Kind regards  
 
Supplier Quality Head  
Cristina Curceanu  