NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS    
 
   
© Siemens AG 2015. All rights reserved  Page  1 of 1 
 
 
 
Subject: Kobe S teel Ltd 
 
Originator: Cristina C urcea nu  
NTS Number: SC020 
Job Title: Suppl ier Qu ality Manager  Issue: 001  
Product Line: Aero Derivative Gas Turbine (AGT)  Date : 16th Novem ber 2017 
Siemens Business Unit: Siemens Canada Limited   
 
For the attention of the Managing Director  
 
Dear Sir or Madam  
 
On the 8th October 2017, Kobe Steel Ltd issued a press release detailing the overwriting of data on materi al  
inspection certificates on some aluminium and copper products manufactured by them.  
 
http://www.kobelco.co.jp/english/releases/1197808_15581.html  
 
 
We require our Suppliers to take immediate action as detail ed below, with a deadline of 3rd Decembe r 2017.  
  
Action Required:  
 
1) Review all product delivered to Siemens Cana da Ltd  (SCL) for the use of any material from Kobe Steel 
from your direct supply and that of your sub tiers : -  
 
a. If no Kobe Steel material is used th en confirm this to your  purchasin g contact at SCL and take no further 
action;  
b. If Kobe Steel material is used then confirm this to your purchasin g contact at SCL for the potential impact 
of this is sue.  
 
2) Engage with Kobe Steel to understand if the material used is impacted as a result of this issue : -  
 
a. If there is no impact then confirm this to your purchasin g contact at SCL and take no further action;  
b. If there i s impact then immediate action is required.  
 
3) You should inform your purchasin g contact at SCL of any impacted products you deliver to us.  
 
      4)   Initiate immediate Containment Action to protect SCL and its Customers incl uding but not limited to ;  
-  
a. Understanding the timescale and volume of the products that have been delivered to SCL including the 
serial numbers where these exist;  
b. Prevent the use of any Kobe Steel material already purchased from being used  in SCL product until you 
can assure SCL that it meets the appropriate material requirements in full;  
c. Assure the quality of any further Kobe Steel material to be delivered which is intended to be used in SCL  
product;  
d. Maint ain continuity of supply using alternative material sources if needed if they are available and 
approved.  
 
  
If you have any questions, please contact your purchasin g representative at SCL. 
 
 
 
With kind regards,  
 
  
 
 
 
Signature   