NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS    
 
   
© Siemens AG 2015. All rights reserved  Page  1 of 2 
 
 
 
Subject:  
1. Lapse in Production  rule for Unclassified parts  
2. Siemens SMC Form  (Supplier Initiated Changes)  
 
Originator: Cristina Curceanu   
NTS Number: SC024 
Job Title: Manager, Suppl ier Quality  Issue: 001  
Product Line: Aero -Derivative Gas Turbine (AGT)  Date: 9th November  2019 
Siemens Business Unit: Siemens Canada Limited  (Gas & Power)   
 
To the attention of Managing Director  
 
Dear Sir or Madam  
 
1. Lapse in Production rule for Unclassified Parts : 
In an effort to align Siemens AGT Montreal’s best practices with Siemens GT, we are relax ing Lapse in Production rule for 
unclassified  parts  to 3yrs . This rule is in effect immediately  and will apply to all AGT product lines .  
 
Once a supplier has more than 3yrs of lapse in production  on unclassified parts , they shall submit a S iemens SMC Form 
(Supplier Initiated Changes) to Siemens Canada Limited thru their aligned MRPC. Siemens Supplier Quality shall review the 
form and inform supplier on the decision / requirements.  The decision can be an extension of previous validation, mini -PPQ, or 
a full -PPQ.  
 
Important :  
- This relaxed rule does not  apply to Classified (Critical & Sensitive)  parts. All classified parts shall still follow 2yrs 
rule for lapse in production.  
- This rule does not apply to Aero -common parts  also. See below for the list of Aero -common prefixes.  
 
 
 
 
 
2. Siemens SMC Form  (Supplier Initiated  Changes)  
A new SMC Form (Supplier Initiated Changes) is introduced that will be replac ing the old Sabre SMC Form  for Siemens AGT 
business . The new  form is made simpler a nd directed to Siemens AGT’s needs. It shall be used to capture changes related to;  
• Source & Method  
• Site relocation  
• Lapse in Production  
• Major equipment  repairs  etc 
 
In relation to lapse in production, t he form also includes set of standard questions which will help commodity SQMs to take 
rapid decisions instead of losing time in back & forth commu nications. Form is self -explanatory having two sections. First 
section is for gathering information on the change and is to be completed by supplier. Section 2 is for Siemens Canada to 
complete and will detail decision / requirements.  A copy of the form is  attached.  
 
Siemens AGT SMC 
Form (supplier initiated) - Template.xlsx
 
 
 
 
In case of any queries, contact your aligned SQ A or MRPC.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 Page  2 of 2 
 
_  
Abbreviations:  
AGT Aero -derivative Gas Turbine  
GT Gas Turbine  
SMC  Source & Method Change  
PPQ Product & Process Qualification  
SQA  Supplier Quality Assurance Engineer  
SQM  Supplier Quality Manager  
MRPC  Material Requirement Planning Controller  
 
 
 
 
With kind regards,  
 
  
 
 
 
Signature   
Florina Cristina Curceanu, Head of Supplier Quality