NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS    
 
   
© Siemens 2020 . All rights reserved  Page  1 of 1 
 
 
Subject: New Raw Material Da tabase  
 
Originator: Jay Jacobs   
NTS Number: SC030  
Job Title: Senior Manager, Supply Chain Operations  Issue: 0 01 
Product Line: Aero Derivative Gas Turbine (AGT)  Date:  April 16, 2021  
Siemens Business Unit: Siemens Energy Canada Limited   
 
Dear Supply Chain Partners  
 
I hope this communication finds you well.  
  
These days controlling the rising cost of manufacturing and being able to do more with less is an everyday 
struggle for all of us.  It is with this focus in mind that Siemens supply chain management team is launching 
an initiative to address one of our biggest contributors to these everyday risks, the rising cost of raw 
material, specifically castings and forgings.  
 
Many of these costs were controlled by previous Rolls Royce direct buy material agreements.  These 
agreements have since expired, and in many cases, have not been replaced with Siemens agreements.  In 
addition, the materials that your company buys, on our behalf for you r finished goods sold to Siemens, also 
represent an opportunity for consolidation, price protection and potential cost reduction.  
 
As such, we are reaching out to you to gather some information in preparation for discussions with the 
suppliers of these cas tings and forgings.  The key information we are looking for is related to the current 
source, configuration, and cost of these materials.  
In addition to cost control, there is added benefit in understanding the qualification (FAIR) status of these 
material s.  By raising awareness of the qualification renewal timing, we can both proactively prepare 
ourselves and avoid unnecessary delays.  
  
The specific information requested is as follows.  We kindly ask that it is sent back to Siemens Energy Canada 
in the at tached spreadsheet by the 31rst of May 2021.   
 
1. Finished Part Number  
2. Finished Part Supplier  
3. Current Finished Part Price  
4. Current Finished Part Price Period Validity 
Period  
5. Raw Material Category – Casting / Forging  6. Raw Material Part Number
7. Raw Material Supplier
8. Raw Material Unit Price
9. Raw Material Pricing Validity Period 
10. Raw Material Ratio
11. FAIR Status – Valid / Invalid
12. Raw Material Specification 
Sihab Uddin, our Siemens Energy Canad a coordinator, will be following up with you to collect this important 
information.  If for some reason you do not believe that you can support this important initiative, please call 
me personally to discuss, as this is key to our survival in the market.  We hope that you agree that we must 
work together to minimize or eliminate these risks to our collective businesses.  
We appreciate your time and effort in helping us address this concern.   
 
 
 
Best Regards,  
 
Jay Jacobs  
Senior Manager, Supply Chain Operations  
5147940381  
Jay.jacobs@siemens -energy.com  