“EHS  Rules of Conduct and Penal Code, version  SE - EHS -2022 -07-01_PREMISES  
Unrestricted   
Annex No. 2 to the Contract  
“EHS  Rules of Conduct and Penal Code”  
for contractors  and service providers active at work sites  of Siemens  Energy,  s.r.o. , 
1. Application of these “Rules/ Penal Code”  
The acceptance of these “ EHS  Rules  of Conduct and Penal Code” (hereinafter also the “Regulations”) is the necessary 
requirement for the conclusion of the contract and at the same time are an agreement under Section 101(3) of the Labo ur 
Code, provided that the work carried out at the work sites is coordinated by the Client ´s representative who shall check the 
Contractor and order the Contractor to perform work /activities , unless  the relevant contract/order specifies otherwise.  
To ensure the saf ety and protection of the health and life of all persons at the work  sites of the Client  and furthermore to 
ensure a coordinated procedure for the implementation of the contractor´s activities, each Contractor carrying out such work 
is obliged to notify all persons who enter through the Contractor the Client ’s work sites  about  these instructions in their 
entirety prior to the first entry.   
Familiarization of all the Contractor´s employees participating in activities at the Client´s work sites  with these co nditions 
shall be documented in writing and the record shall be made available for inspection upon request.  
2. Terms and abbreviations:  
“Client”:  Siemens  Energy , s.r.o., (also “Siemens  Energy ”) 
 “Client’s work site”: all spaces that are used by the Client in a particular place of work, also all other spaces of enclosed  
Premises where the Client´s work site is located.  
“Contractor ” (also  “Supplier ”) / Contractor ´s workers ”:  Contractor’s own employees, as well as natura l and legal persons 
hired by the Contractor as sub -contractors , or persons working for the Client on behalf of the Contractor or in its interest.  
 “Premises ”: an enclosed , structurally separated area, not accessible to the general public, in which Client´ s work sites are 
also located (if such area exist s at the place of work) .  
“Owner of Premises ”: a legal or natural person owning the premises where the Client ´s work sites  are located  
(if such premises exist at the place of work ) 
“Authorised Persons ”: persons authorised to act in contractual matters , the OSH and fire safety manager of Siemens Energy, 
OSH and fire safety officers, persons acting under the Client’s special power of attorney.  
 “EHS ”:  Environment, Health, Safety (i.e. E P, OSH, F S) 
“OSH ”:  Occupational Safety and Health  
“FS”:  Fire safety  
“Environment”:  Environment (and its protection)  
3. Selected OSH hazards/risks present at the Client’s work sites (written description of risks involved) : 
− collision with a transportation means  – vehicles , machinery, cranes or siding s (railcars ), 
− entrapment by moving parts, compression and other mechanical hazards – working machines and other technologies  
− cuts occurred during contact with sharp objects  or chips at production sites or in warehouses (chips from machining, 
sharp edges, etc.)  
− mechanical risks after the fall of loads or collision  
− eye damage caused by flying debris during  machining or when using chemicals  (at work sites)  
− tripping over, slipping, falls on level ground (wet floor, uneven floor, negligence, etc.)  
− risk of fire of flammable liquids or explosion of their vapours  (production sites and warehouses)  
− risk of fire or explosion of combustible gases during leakage from pipes or pressure cylinders  (production sites and 
warehouse s)  
− fire hazard from  solids  
− risk of electric shock especially when tampering with switchboards and other electrical equipment  
− risk of harm from contact with chemicals and/or preparations having at least one of the following hazardous properties: 
extremely flammable, highly flammable, flammable, toxic, harmful to health, corrosive, irritant, hazardous to the 
environment (production sites and warehouses)  
− risk of over -limit noise and related health damage  (production sites)  
“EHS  Rules of Conduct and Penal Code, version  SE - EHS -2022 -07-01_PREMISES  
Unrestricted  − contact with hot surfaces (welding, heating etc . - production sites and warehouses ) 
− falling from height when working at elevated work sites  or sinking into a depression/free fall  
− risk of injury / fall on outdoor roads caused by seasonal climatic conditions  
The Contractor shall be informed of other risks by the Client at the place of work if the nature of its activity so requires . 
 
4. Duties and obligations of the Contractor:  
The Contractor is obliged, and by signing the contract expressly undertakes, to:  
1. - comply with the legal and other regulations and rules in the field of occupational safety and health (hereinafter also 
“OSH”), fire safety ( hereinafter also  “FS”)  and environmental protection  (hereinafter also  “EP”). Selected regulations 
are attached at the end of this Annex.   
2. - include in its activities and comply fully with the internal OSH, FS and EP regulations issued by the Client and also  
the regulations issued by the Owner of Premises where  the activity is carried out . The Contractor must be duly informed 
of the regulations in advance. Furthermore, the Contractor is obliged to permanently require and control fulfilment of 
the regulations by its own  employees and other persons coordinated by the Contract or who enter the  “Premises ” in its 
interest.  
3. - comply with the instructions issued by the authorised persons of the Client in accordance with the regulations and on 
the basis of risk assessment to ensure OSH, SF, EP and the protection of the property of the Client and other entities.  
4. - coordinate its activities with the relevant managers and also with the  Client´s employees and employees of  other 
entities operating on the “Premises”  so as to avoid endangering the liv es and health of persons or property.  
5. - as for work activities posing elevated fire hazard (for example welding, working with open flame s, etc.), arrange the 
necessary “Order”  for performance of work under Decree No. 87/2000 Coll. Observe the fire safety documentation, 
installed safety signs and signals introduced at the work sites.  
6. - equip its employees for the performance of manual work or for movement around the work sites with the appropriate 
personal protective equipment (PPE)  according to the Client ´s local standard.  Basic personal protective  equipment  for 
all production sites, operations and warehouses : work shoes, work clothes, hard hat (helmet) and other PPE  according 
to the regulations and risk assessment for individual work. For the purpose of t his Annex, work shoes for manual work 
at production sites and warehouses and for movement outside roads mean enclosed safety  shoes with a steel toe cap, 
with S1 resistance or higher  according to CE – EN 345 (without holes, i.e., not working sandals).  Work clothes mean 
cotton or similar work clothing bearing the logo or name of the Contractor . Work helmet means a helmet with EN397 
certification ). “EN” standards can be replaced with equivalent harmonised CSN EN standards. The specific conditions 
for equipping persons with PPE shall be communicated to the Contractor in advance by the authorized persons of the 
Client at the place of work.  
7. - observe the principles for working at heights and above free depth according to Government Regulation No. 362/2005  
Coll. (in particular workers are obliged to secure themselves with a safety harness when working at heights or above a 
clear depth of more than 1.5 m, unless  they are protect ed by technical measures (guardrails, etc.).  
8. - inform the Client in writing about  the risks related to the activities conducted, equipment and technologies operated 
and chemical substances and mixtures used by the Contractor.  
9. - secure equipment for its activities, at its own expense and within the legal scope, with physical means requi red under 
FS (e.g. fire extinguishers) and ensure compliance with other obligations imposed on by Act No . 133/1985 Coll. , and 
the related regulations.  
10. - not to store on the Client ´s Premises or work sites any explosives, poisons, narcotics or substances and mixtures listed 
as dangerous, whose marketing and use is prohibited by law or restricted (e.g. PCBs, PCTs, DBBT, asbestos and others, 
radioactive material such as waste and hazardous  substances harmful t o the environment), nor handle them in any way 
on the Premises or at the Client´s work  sites. Handle chemical substances and mixtures at the Client´s work  sites only 
on the basis of the Client´s  prior consent . 
11. without the permission of the Client ´s “Author ised Persons” , not to store or handle at the Client’s work sites other 
substances or mixtures with hazardous properties (e.g. extremely flammable, highly flammable, flammable, highly 
toxic, toxic, etc.)  
12. - operate/use on the Client’s work sites only technic al equipment, machinery, devices, tools, equipment, personal 
protective equipment and protective devices, whose type and technical condition comply with the applicable regulations 
in the Czech Republic and for which the Contractor has the relevant documentation available, in particular the 
documentation on inspections, tests and revisions according to the applicable regulations and demonstrate  this to the 
Client on request.  
“EHS  Rules of Conduct and Penal Code, version  SE - EHS -2022 -07-01_PREMISES  
Unrestricted  13. - carry out work and all activ ities at the Client ´s work  sites exclusively through persons with medical and professional 
competence, or with special competence if required by regulations.  The Contractor shall also ensure that all its 
employees, before entering the “Premises”  for the pu rpose of the performance of their contractual obligations, undergo 
OSH, FS and EP  training to obtain or maintain general competence for entry and safe movement and performance of 
the contractual tasks, if such training is required  at the place of work.  
14. - notify the Client immediately by phone and subsequently without delay in writing of any emergency with impending 
or incurred damage to the life and health of persons, the environment or property and provide all assistance to prevent 
the occurrence of furth er damage and to eliminate already incurred damage.  
15. - ensure the fulfilment of all provisions of Act No. 185/2001 Coll. and the related regulations and handle waste in 
accordance with this act  (e.g. classification of waste by categories and types, sorting and separated collection of waste, 
transfer of waste only to the authorised person, keeping records of waste, handling hazardous waste only on the basis 
of authorisations , collection of hazardous waste in containers that meet the prescribed technical requi rements and are 
properly labelled). Unless the contract expressly provides otherwise, the Contractor is considered the creator of the 
waste produced during the performance of the activities of the Contractor and its contractual partners on the Client’s 
“Premises”.   
16. - make its employees and the employees of its contractual partners who are to carry out the activities at the Client’s 
work sites demonstrably familiar with the obligations applicable to waste handling pursuant to Act No. 185/2001 Coll., 
and the related regulations and monitor the compliance with these rules.  
17. - at its own expense and responsibility, secure the safety of objects carried in or otherwise brought and stored on the 
Client’s “Premises” . 
18. - not to use in the Premises vehicles and equipment with a combustion engine without a catalytic converter in enclosed 
spaces and work sites of the Client.  
19. - ensure compliance with the smoking ban  in places where non -smokers also work or where prohibited by the legislation,  
other regulations (including regulations of the Client or the “Owner of Premises ”), or where prohibited by safety tables.  
20. - not to bring into the premises alcoholic beverages or other narcotic or addictive substances in any form, and not to 
enter the pre mises under the influence of alcohol or other addictive substances. Based on the request of the “Authorised 
Persons” and also the  authorised representative of the  Owner of Premises , incl. security shift supervisors, undergo a test 
or medical examination to  detect the presence of alcohol or any other addictive substance. If the test is refused or  in the 
case of a positive result , the Contractor ´s employees will be removed from the Premises .  
21. - assume full responsibility for any damage demonstrably incurred by the Client , third parties or the Owner of Premises  
e.g., as a result  of sanctions imposed by state administration authorities, state supervision, local self -government and 
other authorities if their imposition demonstrably occurred  as a result of an activity or omission of the Contractor , e.g., 
violation of OSH regulations, fire safety , or environmental or property protection requirements. The Contractor 
expressly undertakes to fully reimburse the incurred damage at its own expense . 
22. - respect the expulsion from the Premises of the employee of the Contractor or its supplier or of another person 
coordinated by the Contractor who has violated the EHS  rules and principles of property protection and, as needed, 
replace the expelled employ ee without delay with another employee so that the worker’s absence does not affect the 
deadlines and quality of work.  
23. - on request of the “Authorised Person”, demonstrate t he compliance with all the above requirements  and furth er 
requirements under EHS  (i.e. substantiate the relevant documents, etc.), allow inspection of the compliance with the 
above requirements.  
24. - in case of violation of occupational safety and health , fire safety  and environmental and property protection rules and 
regulations by the employees of the Contractor, its suppliers or by other persons coordinated by the Contractor, the 
Contractor is obliged upon the request of an “Authorised person” to pay the Client the contractual penalties as specified 
below in the “EHS Penal Code ” chapter without the Contractor being exonerated from the liability for inflicted damage 
and from other contractual obligations. The contractual penalty may be separately imposed for each individual violation.  
 
5. A selection of EHS  legislatio n applicable  (among other regulations) to the Client : 
The Client  hereby notifies the Contractor of its obligation to comply with the laws and regulations of the Czech Republic 
during its activities in the Czech Republic (CR), in particular the following : 
Act No. 262/2006 Coll., the Labour Code  
Act No. 309/2006 Coll., regulating other requirements for occupational safety and health in labour relations and on 
ensuring health and safety i n activities or the provision of services  outside employment relationships (Act on ensuring 
other occupational safety and health requirements)  
Act No. 350/2011 Coll., on chemical substances and chemical mixtures  
Act No. 133/1985 Coll., on fire safety  
“EHS  Rules of Conduct and Penal Code, version  SE - EHS -2022 -07-01_PREMISES  
Unrestricted  Gover nment Regulation No. 378/2001 Coll., laying down more detailed requirements for the safe operation and use of 
machinery,  technical equipment, devices and tools  
Government Regulation No. 101/2005 Coll., on more detailed requirements for work sites  and the w orking environment  
Government Regulation No. 362/2005 Coll., on more detailed requirements for occupational safety and health at work 
sites with a risk of falling from a height or to a depth  
Government Regulation No. 591/2006 Coll., on detailed minimum requirements for occupational safety and health on 
construction sites  
Government Regulation No. 168/2002 Coll., laying down the method of work organisation and working procedures  
applicable to the employer when operating transport vehicles  
Decree No . 48/1982 Coll. , laying down the basic requirements for ensuring occupational safety and technical  equipment  
Act No. 250/2021  Coll., on occupational safety in connection with the operation of dedicated technical equipment and 
on amendments to related acts  
Government Regulation  No. 190/2022  Coll., determining specific lifting equipment and laying down certain conditions 
to ensure its safety  
Government Regulation  No. 191/2022  Coll., on reserved technical gas equipment and requirements to ensure their 
safety  
Government Regulation  No. 192/2022  Coll., on reserved technical pressure equipment and requirements to ensure their 
safety  
Government Regulation  No. 193/2022  Coll., on dedicated technical lifting equipment and requirements to ensure their 
safety  
Government Regulation  No. 194/2022  Coll., on requirements for professional competence to work on electrical 
installations and for professional competence in electrical engineerin g 
Decree No 50/1978 Coll., on professional competence in electrical engineering  (valid only during the transition period)  
Decree No 87/2000 Coll., laying down fire safety conditions for welding and heating of resins in  fusion vessels  
Decree No 246/2001 Coll., laying down conditions for fire safety and the exercise of state fire supervision  (Decree on 
fire prevention)  
Act No 185/2001 Coll. , on waste  
Act No 254/2001 Coll. , on water  
6. Contractor's declaration  
The Contractor declares that he has duly familiarised himself with the Client's internal regulations in force on the date 
of signing the Contract, of which this Annex forms part, to the following extent:  
S 705 -P1 EHS, O SH, FS Principles - Basic Level  
S 705 -P3 Most important safety rules  
 
The scope of the Client 's internal regulations, which the Contractor has been made aware of and which are binding on 
the Contractor, may be modified and extended at the discretion of the "Authorised Persons" according to the actual 
scope of the Contractor' s activities.  
 
7. Final provisions  
a. The Client  and the Contractor have agreed that the provisions of this Annex are contractual arrangements and that this 
“Annex ” is an integral part of the contract/order.  
b. The specification of any violations of the regulations in relation to contractual penalties shall be decided by the 
authorised persons of the Client. Each violation of regulations must be demonstrated.  
c. The exemption from certain provisions in the areas provided for by this Annex may be granted to t he Contractor in 
accordance with the Client´s internal regulations by the authorised person of the Client (in line with inner company 
regulations) and solely for the purpose of the implementation of the obligations and activities of the Contractor under 
the contract after the technical assessment of possible risks and determination of the measures to minimise them. Any 
exemption must be granted in writing and attached to the contract.  
d. Should any provision of this Annex or any other document , requirement or order of the Client regarding EH S, fire safety  
or environment protection be unclear to the Contractor, the Contractor is obliged to inform the Client immediately and 
request adequate explanation.  
e. Contractual penalties for the non -compliance with the obliga tions of the Contractor specified in this Annex and other 
regulations shall not affect the right of the Client to receive full compensation for damages.  
 
“EHS  Rules of Conduct and Penal Code, version  SE - EHS -2022 -07-01_PREMISES  
Unrestricted  EHS Penal Code  
A) Examples of serious violation of EHS regulations at Siemens Energy, s.r.o. work sit es, imposing on the  Contractor 
the obligation to pay Siemens Energy a contractual penalty due to a violation of these regulations committed by its 
employees or by a person coordinated by the Contractor  or its contractual partner,  in the amount of CZK 50,00 0 for 
each individual violation, also including (based on a Siemens Energy, s.r.o.  decision ) expulsion of employees of the 
Contractor or other persons coordinated by the Contractor – contractual partners who have committed the given 
violation from Siemens Energy, s.r.o. work sites . 
1. Failure to respect an express order to stop work activities and to immediately secure occupational safety and health ( OSH ), 
fire safety  (FS), as well as environmental protection (EP) issued by authorised persons of Siemens Energy, s.r.o.  to avoid 
imminent damage to personal health or damages to property . For the purpose of this Annex, authorised persons of Siemens 
Energy include: all management level employees, project managers, OSH and fire safety  managers, EHS managers, fire 
safety officers or possibly other persons appointed by Siemens  Energy, s.r.o.  who will be specified to the Contractor in 
advance.  
2. Violation of the prohibition on bringing alcoholic beverages or other intoxicating substances in any form onto the premises  
and onto the work site of  Siemens Energy. A positive breathaly ser test result of more than 0.30 per mille . Positive result 
of a test for the presence of intoxicating substances . 
3. Failure to undergo an alcohol breath test or test for other toxic substances after being requested by an authorised person.  
4. Performance of work activities without having the proper qualification and skills for the given work or failure to present 
the required documents, if requested . Based on this Article , qualifications or skills also include occupational safety and 
health training,  fire safety  training and prescribed training and examinations for work with specific equipment etc.  
5. Performing work activities without having special qualification (so -called “Certified Professions ”) providing that special 
qualification is required by legal or other regulations or by central or local standards of Siemens Energy plant or by special 
project requirements organised by Siemens  Energy . This includes, for example, wor king with specific  electrical, gas, 
pressure or lifting equipment – including load handling equipment, handling pressure bottles for gas transportation, 
welding of metal or non -ferrous materials, operating propane -butane burner kits , motorised carts, chain saws, etc. Failure 
to present the special qualification certificate at the work site, when required.  
6. Performing work activities without a verified and valid medical certificate  required by the given regulations, and failure 
to present a medical exam certificate, when required.  
7. Missing or insufficient security provided for persons working at heights or above free depths and underneath the given 
place of work . Non -compliance with the rules for construction or the use of scaffolding and other means for elevated 
work – missing railings, uncovered holes  and ditches , failure to use personal protective equipment against falling, failure 
to secure materials against a fall from height or into a depression , failure to restrict the area below the place of work at 
height, failure to restrict entry into this area, etc., and any situation which is in conflict with the given regulations.  
8. Failure to observe the non -smoking policy, ban on  use of an open fire or other fire hazard or explosion sources (includes 
grinding) at locations where such activities are prohibited by regulations (including internal Siemens Energy regulations) 
and by warn ing signs or signals.  
9. Any other failure to observe legal or other regulations and rules concerning fire hazard, or failure to observe Siemens 
Energy internal regulations addressing these hazards (based on this Article  also storage , handling and manipulatio n with  
flammable substances, the use of open fire , welding, grinding, etc.).  
10. Performing work activities without having a valid written Authorisation, Order or other required document issued in 
cooperation with Siemens Energy  (applies, for example, to work  which involves elevated fire hazards, or to written 
documented local standards (such as LOTO, LMRA ) and others, if these are applied in the location of the work activities, 
as well as information about the responsibilities applicable to these areas, if pr ovided to the Contractor  properly and in 
advance . 
11. Failure to observe obligations specified in a written Authorisation, Order  or LOTO, LMRA standards or in other Siemens 
Energy documents, provid ed that the Contractor was properly introduced to the document and to the obligation that has 
been violated  before such violation occurred . 
12. Failure to remove a  claimed defect related to OSH, FS or EP  regulations within the established deadline  
13. Leakage of che mical substances or mixtures onto non -reinforced areas resulting in damage or creating a groundwater or 
environment contamination hazard. Handling chemical substances or mixtures in conflict with legal or other regulations 
(including storage).  
14. Failure to c omply with the regulations on placement and storage of metal pressure vessels for the transport of gases and 
the regulations for handling them.  
15. Use of machinery and technical equipment, which have not undergone on the relevant dates the prescribed inspecti ons, 
tests, revisions, maintenance and repairs or which condition is contrary to legislation  
“EHS  Rules of Conduct and Penal Code, version  SE - EHS -2022 -07-01_PREMISES  
Unrestricted  16. Movement of a person within the premises or Siemens  Energy work site without carrying a visible logo or company name 
or other required label – name tag, visitor´s badge, work clothes logos, etc.  – (according to local requirements)  
17. Disabling safety features  
18. Failure to observe a decision prohibiting the use of certain equipment, or the ban on certain work or operational activities  
19. Failure to secure a work site against  the spread of contamination into the surrounding environment, insufficient protection 
of surrounding equipment  
20. Failure to allow a manager or inspection bodies to enter the given area or space for the purpose of inspection activities  
21. Failure to observe reg ulations on the movement of persons, goods and protection of property notified to the Contractor in 
advance  
22. Physical aggression towards  other persons  
23. Failure to comply with other responsibilities not specifically described in this Code but set out  in applicable legal 
regulations of the Czech Republic ( such as Acts, Decree s, Government regulation s) 
Siemens Energy, s.r.o. is entitled to lower or waive the contractual penalty.  
 
Other examples of serious violation of EHS regulations  at Siemens Energy work sites, imposing on the  Contractor the 
obligation to pay a contractual penalty to Siemens Energy due to violation of these regulations committed by its 
employees or by a person coordinated by the Contractor or a contractual partner in the amount of CZK 25,000 for 
each individual violation,  also including (based on a Siemens Energy decision) expulsion of employees of the 
Contractor or other persons coordinated by the Contractor – contractual partners who have committed the given 
violation from Siemens Energy work  sites:  
24. Positive alcohol/breath analyser test up to 0.30 perm ille inclusive.   
25. Failure to use appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) by employees while working or moving around the work 
sites. Missing or inadequate protective equipment of machines, technical installations, operating premises . 
26. Disabling or limiting access to emergency exits, escape and evacuation routes or energy distribution devices , switches 
and energy shut-offs (e.g. by storing material or items in front of access routes or exits) . 
27. Performing work without proper coordination with the authorised managers of the Client . 
28. Entry of employees of the Contractor, or its sub -contractors , into the Client´s premises  without a valid document (entry 
card) , or movement outside of designated areas or routes . 
29. Non-compliance with the obligations in wast e management . 
30. Leakage of chemical substances or mixtures not described above onto reinforced areas without further damage or without 
posing a risk to groundwater . Handling chemical substances or mixtures in conflict with central or other local Siemens  
Ener gy regulations . 
31. Failure to equip work sites with the prescribed and usable fire extinguishing equipment required for the work carried out 
by the Contractor (fire extinguishers, etc.) . 
32. Violation of other orders or bans defined by local safety or other safety -marking systems (providing that such violation 
has not already been described in other Articles of this Penal Code) . 
33. Performing not-yet-approved or illegal activities which could lea d to dangerous extraordinary events . 
34. Unauthorised handling of assets belonging to other legal or natural persons on the Siemens Energy premises  or work  sites. 
35. Failure to report an emergency situation (injury, fire, explosion, theft, other damages  to proper ty, etc.) . 
36. Failure to identif y to an authorised person of the Client, or possibly verbal aggression towards  persons . 
37. Missing or insufficient security means at the work site (facility, material, etc.), including a failure to secure the accepted  
work site and own transport, mechanisation and other means against unauthorised use .  
38. Illegal storage of material  (without additional damages or without violating other rules  and p rinciples ). Serious 
deficiencies in cleaning the entrusted work sites and premises and non -compliance with the deadlines set out to eliminate 
such deficiencies . 
39. Failure to comply with other responsibilities not described in this Code but ensuing from applicable legal regulations of 
the Czech Republic (technical standards), including further obligations defined in internal , central or local Siemens 
Energy plant standards properly notified to the Contractor in advance.   
Siemens Energy, s.r.o. is entitled to lower or waive the contractual penalty.   