Annual Shareholder's Meeting Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2025 of Siemens Energy AG Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2025 Data protection information Archive Internet Service for Shareholders Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2025 The Annual Shareholders' Meeting 2025 of Siemens Energy AG was held on Thursday, February 20, 2025, 10:00 a.m. (CET) , as a virtual Shareholders’ Meeting without the physical attendance of shareholders or their proxy representatives (except for the proxy representatives nominated by the Company). The next Annual General Meeting of Siemens Energy AG is expected to be held in February 2026. The recording of the speeches of Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and Christian Bruch, President and CEO, can be seen here Documents Internet Service & invitation via email Live Webcast Documents Annual Shareholders ' Meeting 2025 Voting Results The recording of the speeches of Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and Christian Bruch, President and CEO, can be seen here in English or in sign language . Notice of Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 2025 (incl. agenda) Chairman's letter to our shareholders Corporate Governance Presentation Speeches for opening of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 2025 (published on February 14, 2025) - Joe Kaeser (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) - Dr. Christian Bruch (President and Chief Executive Officer) Attendance Notification Form Shareholder Counterproposals and Election Nominations (Latest update: February 7, 2025) Information on Shareholders’ Rights Annual Report 2024 including Consolidated Financial Statements for the Siemens Energy Group, together with the Combined Management Report of Siemens Energy AG and the Siemens Energy Group, as of September 30, 2024 (IFRS) (including: Report of the Supervisory Board, Explanatory Report on the information required pursuant to Section 289a, Section 315a of the German Commercial Code (HGB), Corporate Governance statement including the Corporate Governance reporting, Group Non-Financial Statement) Annual Financial Statements of Siemens Energy AG 2024 (HGB) Articles of Association of Siemens Energy AG (as of March 6, 2024) Recommendations for video communication during the Annual Shareholders' Meeting Key dates regarding Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Information in accordance with Section 125 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) in conjunction with Table 3 blocks A to F of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1212 Document relating to Agenda Item 6 Compensation Report, along with the audit report of the independent auditor, in accordance with Section 162 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) of Siemens Energy AG for the fiscal year 2024 Documents relating to Agenda Item 7 Compensation system for members of the Executive Board Overview of relevant changes to the compensation system Documents relating to Agenda Item 8 Information on the candidates proposed for election to the Supervisory Board Qualification Matrix Shareholder Representatives (according to election proposal) Announcement of additional mandate of Ms. Geisha Jimenez Williams Document relating to Agenda Item 9 Synopsis of proposed amendments to the Articles of Association Document relating to Agenda Items 10 Declaration of Executive Board on Agenda Item 10 Synopsis of proposed amendments to the Articles of Association Internet Service for Shareholders of Siemens Energy AG, in particular: Update of registration data for electronic delivery of invitations to future Shareholders’ Meetings Change of address data Notification of attendance for the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Absentee voting or appointment of a proxy representative View shareholder statements Right to speak, right to submit proposals and right to obtain information during the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting by way of video communication Declaration of objections to resolutions during the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Download of confirmation on whether and how votes were counted Watch a live broadcast of the entire Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Electronic delivery of invitations to Shareholders' Meetings For future Shareholders‘ Meetings, you have the option to receive the invitation to the e-mail address you provide for registration instead of by postal mail. Use our Internet Service and help us save paper! You may revoke your consent to electronic delivery at any time. If you have already registered using a self-assigned Access Password, you can use the Internet Service to change your registration data and your postal address stored in the Company's share register throughout the year. In the FAQ document you will find further information on our Internet Service . The recording of the opening of the Annual Shareholders' Meeting and the speeches of Joe Kaeser, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and Christian Bruch, President and CEO, can be seen here in English or in sign language . Information on data protection for Siemens Energy AG shareholders The EU General Data Protection Regulation ascribes great importance to the transparency of data processing. The security of your personal data and protection of your privacy are our utmost priority, which we ensure with state-of-the-art methods for secure data communication. The following is intended to provide you with information on processing of your personal data by Siemens Energy AG and your rights under data protection law. You can obtain more information on data protection in our Privacy Notice . Who is responsible for data processing? The responsible entity is Siemens Energy AG, Otto-Hahn-Ring 6, 81739 Munich, Germany. ADEUS Aktienregister-Service-GmbH, Munich, Germany, has been appointed to maintain the share register of Siemens Energy AG. If you have any questions on data protection in the share register, we therefore ask you to contact hv-service.siemens-energy@adeus.de or the hotline at +49 (0) 89/2070 - 84040. For what purposes and on what legal basis is your data processed? From whom do we obtain your data? When maintaining the share register, we process your data – as we receive it from you, the custodian bank or the central securities depository Clearstream Banking AG, Eschborn, Germany – on the basis of the requirements under stock corporation and capital market law as well as regulatory specifications. Section 67 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) stipulates that registered shares must be entered in the company’s share register along with the surname, first name date of birth and postal as well as e-mail address of the shareholder and the number of shares. If a shareholder is a legal entity or partnership with legal capacity, its company name, registered office and address must be entered in the share register. In order to clarify any potential ambiguities, the bank submitting the information will also be recorded. We use your personal data for the purposes provided for in the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). These purposes include, in particular, maintaining the share register, communicating with you as a shareholder, and staging Shareholders’ Meetings. In the case of structural or capital measures, we must refrain from providing certain shareholders with information on offers owing to their nationality or place of residence, in order to comply with securities legislation in individual countries. In connection with the Shareholders’ Meeting, we process your personal data (register data of the shareholder, the name, address and e-mail address of his/her representative, if applicable, the type of ownership of the shares, absentee votes/voting instructions, and the number of the admission ticket, if applicable) on the basis of prevailing data protection legislation in order to enable you as a shareholder to exercise your rights at the Shareholders’ Meeting. Processing of your personal data is permissible pursuant to Article 6 (1) (c) and (f) of the German Data Protection Regulation (DSGVO), as it is legally required for your participation in the Shareholders’ Meeting and/or cast votes pursuant to the provisions of the German Stock Corporation Law (Section 123 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) in conjunction with Section 14 of the Articles of Association of Siemens Energy AG; Section 129 (1) sentence 2 AktG; Section 134 (3) sentence 5 AktG). To which categories of recipients do we pass on your data? We use external service providers and their subcontractors, in each case in the EU, for administration and technical maintenance of the share register (share register service company) and to stage the Shareholders’ Meeting (shareholders’ meeting service provider). Upon the publication of counterproposals, election nominations, statements and election nominations we disclose the name and place of residence of the respective shareholder. Upon exercising a right to declare objections to resolutions of the Shareholders’ Meeting, the notary will receive personal data of the shareholder concerned and, if applicable, their proxy representative. Please note that the entire Shareholders’ Meeting will be broadcast on the internet as a livestream, so that all participants in the Shareholders’ Meeting and viewers of the livestream can take note of the name and place of residence and, if applicable, other personal data of shareholders or proxy representatives who exercise a right to speak, submit proposals or right to obtain information (including follow-up questions) at the Shareholders’ Meeting. During the Shareholders' Meeting, shareholders and their proxy representatives may view the list of attendance. How long do we store your data? As a matter of principle, we render your personal data anonymous and delete it as soon as it is no longer deemed necessary for the above-mentioned purposes, insofar as statutory documentation and storage obligations (for example in the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG), German Commercial Code (HGB), German Fiscal Code (AO)) are not applicable. What are your rights as a data subject? At the address stated above, you can obtain information on and access to the data about you that we have stored. If certain requirements are met, you also have the right to demand that your data be rectified or erased or that processing of it be restricted (for instance, if your data is processed unlawfully). Who can I contact with questions about data protection? If you have any questions or complaints about data protection, you can contact the data protection officer of Siemens Energy AG at dataprotection@siemens-energy.com or to the competent data protection supervisory authority: Bayerisches Landesamt für Datenschutzaufsicht (Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision) Promenade 18 91522 Ansbach https://www.lda.bayern.de/de/kontakt.html Deutsche Version Stay in Touch Energy Transition Actions​ Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Secure supply chains Products and Services Industries Use cases Products Services Trainings Company About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Careers Supplier Contact Reporting Channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Corporate information Privacy notice Cookie notice Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025