DUP Instruction
Supplier Manual
© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
1 General 3
1.1 Objective 3  
1.2 Scope ofApplication 3
1.3 Abbreviations 3
1.4 Major changes compared tolast revision 3
1.5 Process Roles & Responsibilities 3
2 Supplier Document Requirements 4
2.1 Concerned documents 4
2.1.1 Allowed filetypes 4
2.2 Quality ofsubmitted documents 5
2.2.1 Front size 5
2.2.2 Paper size 6
2.2.3 Language 6 
3 Process forhandling Supplier Documents with Siemens 7
3.1 Document status 8
3.2 Turn around time 8
4 DUP -Submittal Method 9
4.1 First time registration at Siemens DUP 9 
4.2 Login totheDUP 9
4.3 DUP User Interface 11
4.4 Statusses in theDUP 13
4.5 Upload documents totheDUP 14
4.6 Multi registration 15
4.7 Wild card 16
4.8 Download documents from theDUP 17
5 Notifications toSupplier from theDUP 18
6 Help 19
© Siemens Energy, 2021 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
1 General
1.1 Objecitve
This guideline provides documentation requirements for Siemens suppliers. If these requirements are not followed, the documen ts will be rejected 
and need to be corrected and re -submitted.
1.2 Scope ofApplication
This guideline applies to all documents for equipment delivered by suppliers to Siemens -Energy using the Document Upload Portal (DUP).
1.3 Abbreviations
1.4 Major changes compared to last revision (valid from 21 May 21)
-Multi registration ofdocuments (page 15)
-Wild card document category (page 16)
-Notification document category specific (page 18)
1.5 Process Roles & Responsibilities
Siemens -Energy –Grant access to DUP for supplier
Siemens -Energy –Makes documents available in DUP for upload
Supplier –Creates and sends documents to Siemens -Energy using the DUP

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
2 Supplier Document Requirements
Supplier documents shall be submitted to Siemens -Energy in accordance with the requirements described below. 
2.1Concerned documents
All SDRL (supplier document requirement list ) documents.
All quality documents according to the  IP (inspection plan).
2.1.1 Allowed file types
File formats that allowed to be uploaded in the DUP:

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
2.2 Quality of submitted documents
Documents shall be of sufficient quality to allow immediate and accurate use, without any need for interpretation due to poss ible illegibility. Any illegible 
or indecipherable drawing or document will be systematically returned to Suppliers who shall in no case allege documents bein g returned as a reason 
for any delay affecting delivery.
It is mandatory for copies to be of the highest quality, so as to avoid prints/copies of poor quality.
• The content of the document must be searchable
• Document has to contain bookmarks for chapters, sub -chapters and where appropriate bookmarks for further themes. For the reader it has to be 
easy to navigate through the document.
• All pages shall be rotated in the proper orientation for reading
• Scanned documents have to be scanned with OCR -software to make sure machine -readable. Full -text search has to be possible also i ndexing 
within a pdf -document. Signed original documents have to be scanned colored. Document must not be protected
• On request Siemens -Energy reserves the right to request native files
• Documents with multiple sheets/pages must be submitted as one file
• Revised documents shall be submitted as a whole, not just the revised section.
2.2.1 Font size
Supplier Documents shall be clear and the reduction of drawings shall be legible.
Minimum Font Size used in the Documents, Drawings and Calculations shall be 8 (eight) pt.
© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
2.2.2 Paper size
Supplier Documents shall be clear and the reduction of drawings shall be legible.
Minimum Font Size used in the Documents, Drawings and Calculations shall be 8 (eight) pt.
Allowed ISO -A-sizes: Allowed ANDI sizes:
2.2.3 Language ofdocumentation
The specification in the purchase order is leading. If there is no separate requirement, the documentation shall be prepared in English. The 
documentation required for legal approvals shall be prepared in the language required by the authorities as well as in Englis h.A second language may 
be requested.
Designation  Dimensions (inch)  Dimensions (mm)  
ANSI A  8.5 x 11  216 x 279  
ANSI B  11 x 17  279 x 432  
ANSI D  22 x 34  559 x 864  
 
Designation  Dimensions (mm)  Dimensions of Outline (mm)  
A4 210 x 297  190 x 277  
A3 297 x 420  277 x 375  
A2 420 x 594  390 x 554  
A1 594 x 841  554 x 781  
A0 841 x 1189  791 x 1119  
 
© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
3 Process for handling Supplier Documents with Siemens Energy
Supplier shall send and receive all the documentation through the Document Upload Portal. 
Step Action Responsible
S1 Prepare document supplier
S2 Upload document supplier
S3 Receive document. Siemens Energy
S4 If document is for information, Siemens will retain Siemens Energy 
document for information. No follow -up action is required.
If document is for approval, Siemens will review the document 
and send back to supplier. 
S5 Send document back to supplier Siemens Energy 
S6 Receive document supplier
S7 If document is commented or rejected by Siemens, supplier 
shall update the document and send back to Siemens. supplier
© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
3.1 Document status
Every document has a status and a category. By assigning a status to a document it will determine the follow up action for Si emens Energy or supplier.
The following document statuses are being used for documents to Siemens:
For Information:
Document with category “engineering document for information” shall be send for information only. Siemens Energy will retain this document for 
information only and it shall not be send back with comments.
For Approval:
Document with category “engineering document for approval” shall be send for approval. Siemens Energy shall review the docume ntand, if necessary, 
give comments on the content of the document. If not approved the supplier shall make a new revision of this document incorpora ting the comments and 
submit the new revision for review.
Response from siemens after receiving documents for approval :
3.2 Turn around time
Documents with category “engineering document for approval” that are received for approval have a standard turn around time o f 10 businees days. 
After receiving a document that is submitted for approval, Siemens must return the document with the status that it is “appro ved”, “commeted ” or is 
“rejectred ”. If the document has comments or is rejected, the supplier has a total of 10 business days to incorporate the comments and resubmit the 
updated document.
Siemens response  Supplier action  
Approved  Production may proceed.  No further action needed.  
Approved with Comments  Production may proceed according to comments. Resubmit revised document.  
Rejected  Production shall not proceed. Resubmit revised document.  
 
© Siemens Energy, 2021 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
4 DUP -Submittal Method
4.1 First time registration at Siemens DUP
If you are requested to use the Siemens DUP for document exchange, please send us the following information:
• your e -mail addresses that will be used for registration (company e -mail addresses only!) 
• at minimum one Siemens PO number
Please send this information to your purchasing contact 
The Siemens administration team will verify your request. After successful assignment of e -mail addresses to the supplier ID, y ou will receive a 
confirmation e -mail.
.
4.2 Login to the DUP
First time registration at Siemens DUP:
After you received the first confirmation from Siemens Energy
access the DUP login page by using the following URL: 
https://dup.apps.prd.cf.siemens -energy.cloud/
You can change the 
language of the 
application by clicking 
on the earth icon in the 
upper right corner.
 It is mandatory to use Google Chrome or Firefix for the DUP  
Any other browser is not supported.  
 

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Click on “Log In”
Go to the “Sign Up” tab.
Please keep in mind that there is no password 
assigned to you yet.
• Enter your email address.
• Type in a password. The password must have the following conditions:
oAt least 8 characters in length. 
oContain at least 3 of the following 4 tyes of characters
oLower case letters (a -z)
oUpper case letters (A -Z)
oNumbers (0 -9)
oSpecial characters (e.g. !@#$%^&*)
• Add your name
agree to the terms & conditions and click on “sign up”.
You will directly receive a notification followed by a verification email. 
In the verification email you have to confirm your account by clicking the button 
“Confirm my account”
.
In your browser you will receive the final confirmation of your email & account
You can now continue to login
Now you have to change to the Log In tab in your browser

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
4.3 DUP User Interface
On the start page (landing page) of the DUP you can see all the requested documents by Siemens Energy for all the purchase 
orders that are assigned to your account. 
In the header of the page you can filter documents based on Vendor ID, Purchase Order or Purchase order Item.
Below the header you will find all the documents that are assigned to your account and need to be send to siemens. 
By entering a specific PO, you can see all the requested or provided documents and not only the urgent documents. Here you ha ve the 
possibility to upload additional documents that have not been listed on the main page. By adding a PO item the list can be re duced to the 
documents linked to one item.
Column  Description  
Purchase Order  Siemens Purchase order number  
PO Item  Item within the purchase order  
 
 The order of sho wing the documents is based on the urgency. Overdue documents are listed first and than 
the documents that are due within  the next 2 weeks.  
 

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Column Description
Upload Document Column where the requested document can be uploaded
➔ click here for more info
Supplier document 
number
SE document 
numberSupplier document number can be added. Must be added if the same 
document should be used for several document requests 8multi 
registration)
Siemens Energy document number
Document Name Siemens Energy document name
Purchase Order Siemens Energy Purchase Order number
PO Item Purchase Order Item number
Category Type of document (Quality or Engineerng doument)
Due Date Document Agreed due date for sending document to Siemens Energy
Version Version letter or number of the document
Additional Info Comments to Siemens or to supplier. 
Last Upload Date when document is sent back from Siemens Energy to Supplier
Changed By Siemens Energy user that sent the document back to supplier
Status Status of the document
➔ click here for more info

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
4.4 Statuses in the DUP

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
4.5 Upload documents totheDUP
You can upload documents directly in the list of urgent documents. Type in the PO number for showing non urgent documents if needed.
Based on thebackbone system youmight be limited to upload only one file per document line. Several files can only be uploaded by compiling them in 
a unique .zip file. In this case, please compile all documents from the PO Item to ONE pdf file (Index + content)!
If the backbone system allows multiple files, make sure you select all documents at the same time.
Click ion the upload icon then select the file(s) from your hard drive to upload.
You can also drag & drop the file(s) on 
the upload button.

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
During upload a progress bar is shown in the upload icon.
Max. file size: 800 MB
When the upload is finished a success message is shown.
You can enter a comment that will be linked to the document and displayed after upload. 
This message will also be forwarded to the document responsible within Siemens.
An error message is displayed in case there is a virus or malware detected in the file or 
the upload portal has a technical problem.
4.6 Multi registration (not possible fordocuments with category „Engineering document “)
Ifa document isvalid formore then onedocument request youcanperform a multi
registration and link thesame document todifferent purchase orders oritems . Todo so type 
in your supplier document number before uploading thedocument thefirsttime. Instead of
uploading thedocument tothenext purchase order , just type in thesupplier document
number and press EnterYou can upload a new version of a document as long as its status is not 
“Approved”.

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
The DUP will check whether this document number is known to the system and a pop up 
window will appear. You can confirm this action by pressing “OK” or by Enter. If you want to 
upload a new document, but the number is already assigned to another document you need to 
change the number! 
Youwill receive a popupforthesuccessfull registration
4.7 Wild card function
Ifyouselect a single purchase order item, youcanupload new
unrequested documents . Youneed toselect a document category

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
4.8 Download documents from theDUP
Documents that are send back to the supplier can be downloaded by clicking on the 
red link under the document name.

© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
5 Notifications toSupplier from theDUP
The DUP portal will send emails to inform the supplier contact(s) about document due dates and change of the status. If sever al contact emails exist there is a 
possibility to send notifications document category specific. Which means e.g. one contact gets the notifications for quality documents another contact the 
notifications for ECC documents. Please contact your Siemens -Energy contact and specify the document category –email combinatio n(s).
The email from the portal contains:
• name of the requested documents, 
• PO number & item, 
• document due date
• link to the portal.
5.1 Upcoming & overdue Documents (weekly mail)
An email is sent weekly to the supplier with a list of documents that are overdue and due within the next 2 weeks. 
5.2 Overdue Documents (daily mail)
For overdue documents, an email is sent to the supplier each working day.
5.3 Commented and Rejected Documents
For documents where the status is changed to commented or rejected, an email is sent to the supplier once the status change o ccurs. 
5.4 Approved Documents
For engineering documents where the status is changed from “Waiting for Siemens response” to approved, an email is sent to th e supplier once the change 
occurs.
© Siemens Energy, 2020 Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
6 Help
• No access to DUP “This page can’t be displayed”: 
o Please use the Chrome Browser or Firefox. 
o In case your local IT has prohibited page access you need to contact your local IT to get access trough your firewall
• I forgot my password: 
At the "Log in" tab you will find the "Forgot password?" button. Follow the instructions.
• Login not possible:
You need to login with the same email that was transmitted to Siemens for login
• Uploading error:
o If you are logged in for a while without action press F5 for a refresh. You might be asked to login again. After logging in a gain the upload should 
be possible.
o If you try to upload from a different file share and get problems, first try to upload from your local desktop. Your IT might not support drag & drop 
from external file shares
Further information
If you need further assistance, please contact your local purchaser