 
 
             
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat: H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability  Company , registered at  Company Registry Court of Budapest  Capital Regional Court, registration number : 01-09-345695.  
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
General Condit ions („GC”)  for supply  of products and provision of services of 
Siemens Energy Kft. ("Supplier")  
 
- effective  from 1st June 2021  - 
 
 
 
I.  GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 
1. The individual contract (hereinafter “Individual Contract”) and the  present GC  shall govern t he 
basic terms and conditions of the contractual relation ships  between Supplier and Customer 
(hereinafter together “ Parties ”) related to  supp lies and/or services  of the Supplier  (hereinafter: 
"Supplies "). The Individual Contract is a document  reflecting the unanimous will of the Parties  
aimed at the delivery of S upplies  based on the Supplier's price quotation  and the Customer's 
order . For any issues  not settled in the Individual Contract, the provisions of the  GC shall prevail. 
The present  GC shall apply to all orders of the Customer concerning  Supplies . 
 
The present GC and the Individual Cont ract together shall form  the entire agreement between the 
Parties  regarding the order and delivery of the respective S upplies . By sending the order to the 
Supplier, the Customer confirms that – after a detailed reading - it expressly acknowledges and 
accepts the provisions of th e present  GC. 
 
Certain provisions of the  present  GC significant ly differ from the legislation and the usual 
contractual practice. Customer declares that it has studied those and  expressly accept s them . 
 
The custom widely known and regularly used by the subjects of a similar cont ract in the given 
business shall only become part of the agreement between the Supplier and the Customer if the 
Supplier and the Customer  agree d about it expressly and in writing . 
 
2. The detailed list of Supplies delivered by the Supplier is  included in the Individual Contracts 
concluded pursuant to  the present GC . 
 
3. The Customer  may request a price quotation from the Supplier in respect of the Supplies. Based 
on the price quotation request from the Customer , the Supplier shall send a detailed price 
quotation to the Customer  in writing . The price quotation can generally contain  the followings : (i) 
name  and description of the Supplies, including the definition and specifications of any services 
to be provided by the Supplier; (ii) purchase price of the Supplies and the fees charged by the 
Supplier; (iii) period while the price quotation  is binding upon the Supplier ; and (iv) other essential  
conditions indicated by the Supplier (e.g. schedule of delivery or part ial delivery, deadlines  of 
performance, payment schedule).  
 
The Customer is entitled to accept the price quotation sent to it in a duly signed written order until 
the expiry of the period while the Supplier is bound by its price quotation. Should the Customer 
deliver the order signed as provided for in this Section to the Supplier after the expiry of the period 
while the Supplier maintains its price quotation, then the Supplier is not bound by its price 
quotation any longer and the order becomes binding only via a separate written acceptance  
(confirm ation ) of the Supplier . 
 
The relevant detailed price quotation contains the period while  the Supplier is bound by its price 
quotation. Should  the detailed price quotation not contain this period, then the period while  the 
Supplier is bound by its price quotation shall be deemed to be 30 (thirty ) calendar days.  
 
 
             
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat: H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability  Company , registered at  Company Registry Court of Budapest  Capital Regional Court, registration number : 01-09-345695.  
 
 2 
 
An Individual Contract is only concluded between the Customer and the Supplier when  the 
Customer  delivers  its order with terms completely  identical to the terms of the detailed price 
quotation of the Supplier before  the expiry of the period while  the Supplier is bound by its price 
quotation as specified above . If the Supplier receives the order with terms fully identical to the 
terms of the detailed price quotation of the Supplier after the expiry of the period while  the Supplier 
is bound by its price quotation, the Individual Contract is concluded  between the Parties only when 
the Supplier accepts the order separately i n writing. If the Customer  orders the Supplies from the 
Supplier in accordance with the terms /content  of the price quotation, then upon the receipt of the 
written order by the Supplier, the Individual Contract is concluded  between the Parties . 
 
If the Customer does not send an order with the terms included in the price quotation, then the 
Custom er shall call the Supplier ’s attention to this fact. This call is deemed to be a new request 
for price quotation  (even if it does not differ from the price quotation on a substantial matter) . In 
this case the Supplier makes a new price quotation based on the call and send s it to the Customer . 
After receiving the new price quotation, the Customer  is entitled to order the Supplies in 
accordance with the above mentioned provisions of the GC.  
 
The general terms and conditions of the Customer shall not become part of the Individual Contract 
even i f they are not expressly rejected by the Supplier, even if their content is not expressly 
contrary to the terms and conditions of th e present  contract  nor contain different provisions 
regarding  additional or non -essential issues.  
 
4.  The Supplier herewith  reserves any in tellectual  property rights and/or copyrights pertaining to its 
price quotations , plans  and other documents (hereinafter referred to as "Documents"). The 
Customer shall only make these Documents accessible to third Parties  after the Supplier's prior 
consent . The Customer shall, upon request, return  the Documents  without delay to the Supplier 
if it does not conclude the Individual Contract with the Supplier. The above provisions shall app ly 
to the Customer 's Documents  accordingly. These Documents may, however, be made accessible 
to those third Parties  who are  rightful  subcontractors of the Supplier . 
 
The Parties  undertake to keep  confidential  the terms of the price quotations, the orders, the fact 
and the terms of the present GC and the Individual Contract , furthermore  any business secrets  
acquired during  the performance of the present GC and the Individual Contract , not to make these 
accessib le or disclose to any third Party . Technical, economic or organizational knowledge /know -
how, experience or a combination of thereof  (proprietary knowledge)  that is recorded in an 
identifiable manner and represent s an asset, shall be equally  protected as business secrets.  
 
5. The Customer has nonexclusive  right to use standard software and software saved e.g. on a hard 
disk or other data carrier  provided that it is used according to  the agreed terms of use for the 
given standard software , unchanged on the designated  equipment.  
 
Should software be also delivered during the performance of the Supplier, then the Parties  are 
obliged to agree on the detailed and comprehensive copyright terms related to the software in the 
Individual Contract.  
 
If the service of the Supplier include s provisions of standard software made available by third 
Parties , then the special  contractual  conditions of the author of the standard software or other 
proprietor of the IPR shall be applicable , meaning that the software shall not be modified, copied , 
multipli cated, the right to use shall not be assigned or transferred to third Party . 
 
6. Partial  deliveries and partial invoices are allowed, unless otherwise agreed by the Parties  in the 
Individual Contract.  
 
 
 
             
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat: H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability  Company , registered at  Company Registry Court of Budapest  Capital Regional Court, registration number : 01-09-345695.  
 
 3 
7. The term "claim for damages" used in the present GC also includes claims for compensation for 
costs caused by a breach of contract, but only within the framework of the rules set out in  Section 
VIII.7.  
 
8. Prices are given in accordance  with DAP named dest ination  Incoterms® 2020 . 
 
 Prices are net prices , i.e. prices do not include applicable VAT or any other similar taxes.  
 
The Supplier is entitled to charge VAT or similar tax on all supplies and activities performed by 
the Supplier to the Customer on the basis of an order in respect of which it must pay or account 
for VAT, sales tax or similar tax in accordance with the laws  of any jurisdiction, provided that the 
Supplier, upon imposition of such VAT, sales tax or similar tax, issues an appropriate invoice to 
the Customer in the appropriate form and within the deadline  prescribed by the relevant laws of 
the countries concerne d. 
 
The deadline for payment of the invoice is 15 days from the date of issuance. Payments are 
without deductions. Compensation s are  only possible in individual cases with the prior written 
approval of the Supplier.  
 
If the Customer is in delay with the pa yment, the Supplier may demand a lump sum compensation 
of 15% for the duration of the delay.  
 
9. The price quotation is valid for 30 calendar days from the date of issu ance . 
 
 The condition of the delivery or provision of the service is that after agreeing on the technical and 
commercial conditions the Customer issues a binding order to the Supplier. The order must be 
confirmed by the Supplier. However, this is not necessary if there is no devia tion from the offer.  
 
II.  PRIC ES, TERMS OF PAYMENT AND SET-OFF 
 
1. Prices include delivery and packaging, unless otherwise agreed in the Individual Contract.  
Prices  however  do not include value added tax.  
 
2. If under the Individual Contract the Supplier is also obliged to provide assembly or installation  and 
unless otherwise agreed  by the Parties , the Customer  shall pay the agreed remuneration and any 
additional costs include d in the relevant Individual Contra ct, e.g. cost for travelling and transport 
as well as  other  contributions . 
 
3. Payments shall be made in the currency and manner specifi ed by the Supplier free of, and without 
deducting or withholding any bank cost . Payment is deemed to have been made when  it is 
credited to the Supplier's bank account.  
 
4. The Customer may of fset only those claims that the Supplier has  acknowledged in writing and 
are un contested  or non appealable.  
 
III.  RETENTION OF TITLE  
 
1. The items pertaining to the Supplies ("Retained Goods") shall remain the Supplier's property until 
all claim s that the Supplier has against the Custom er deriving from  the relevant Individual 
Contract or the present GC has been fulfilled. Furthermore, if requested by the Supplier in its 
price quotation  concerning  the Individual Contract, the Customer is obliged to cooperate with the 
Supplier to register the fact of retention of title in the relevant credit guarantee  register and to 
provide  the necessary legal declarations and data.  In this case, the entry into force of the 
Individual Contract shall be subject to the registration of the fact of retention of title related to the 
goods covered by the Individual Contract  in the relevant credit g uarantee register . 
 
 
 
             
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat: H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability  Company , registered at  Company Registry Court of Budapest  Capital Regional Court, registration number : 01-09-345695.  
 
 4 
2. For the duration of the retention of title, the Custom er may not pledge the Retained Goods or use 
them otherwise as security . The Customer may  resell the Retained Goods to resellers  only on 
the condition that the reseller may only transfer property rights to any buyer in the ordinary course 
of business and only after the buyer has paid the reseller the price of the Retained Goods  and 
the Customer has also fulfilled its obligation to pay to the Supplier in connection with the  Retained 
Goods.  The Customer shall comply with  this rule even if the fact of the retention of title of the 
goods subject to  the Individual Contract is not entered in to the relevant credit guarantee  register.   
 
3. The Custom er shall inform the Supplier without delay  of any seizure or any o ther intervention by 
third Parties . 
 
4. If the Customer fails to fulfil its obligation in connection with the retention of title as described 
above , fails to pay in due time, or otherwise violates its obligations the Supplier shall be entitled 
to withdraw  from the Individual Contract or terminate it with immediate effect and take back the 
Retai ned Goods in case the Customer still fails to comply with that obligation within a reasonable 
period of time set by the Supplier to remedy the breach of contract.  The Custom er is obliged to 
return the Retained Goods. The fact that the Supplier takes back the Retained Goods and/or 
retains  title of or seizures  the Retained Goods, does not in itself constitute a withdrawal from or a 
termination with immediate effect of the Individual Contract unless the Supplier expressly declares 
so in writing.   
 
5. If the C ustomer is late in fulfilling any of its obligations deriving from  the present GC or the relevant 
Individual Contract and is not able to excuse its delay in accordance with the relevant rules of the 
Hungarian Civil Code (Ptk.) , it is obliged to pay the Supplier all reasonable additional cost s 
incurred by the Supplier as a result of  the delay.   
 
 
IV.  DELIVERY PERIOD , DELAY  
 
1. Delivery deadlines shall be governed by  the Indiv idual Contract . The del ivery period begins  on 
the day when the Supplier receives the order.  If any modifications are required, the delivery period 
shall begin on the date on which the Customer and the Suppli er agree on the technical and 
commercial conditions, provided that production or delivery can be started without further delay. 
The Supplier is entitled to pre -delivery or partial delivery, in which case it is obliged to inform the 
Customer . 
 
2. The condition of the Supplier's timely performance is that the Customer delivers all the necessary 
documents, necessary permits and approvals, in particular the related plans to the Supplier in 
due time , provides free access in case of assembly and install ation in accordance with  Section  
VI. point 3, furthermore  the Customer fulfils  its payment and other obligations as agreed in the 
Individual Contract. If these conditions are not fulfilled  in time, the delivery deadlines will be 
automatically extended with the duration of  the Customer's delay . 
 
3. The delivery deadline shall be deemed to be met: 
 
a) in case of delivery without assembly and installation  when the S upply  has been delivered  to 
the Customer by the Supplier in accordance with Incoterms® 2020 at the time stipulated in the 
Individual Contract and at the place of performance specified in the Individual Contract. The 
deadline shall be deemed to be met even if the Customer is in de lay with the receipt of the S upply  
although it is reported to be ready for delivery  within the deadline.  
(b) in the case of assembly and installation , at the time when the assembly and installation is 
completed  on the date specified in the Individual Contract.  
c) If - according to the Individual Contract  - the condition of performance is a certificate of 
completion signed by the Customer, the Customer is obliged to issue the certificate of completion 
within 5 da ys after the Delivery or the provision of Service has taken place. Otherwise, the 
 
 
             
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat: H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability  Company , registered at  Company Registry Court of Budapest  Capital Regional Court, registration number : 01-09-345695.  
 
 5 
Delivery or Service shall be deemed to have been fulfilled and the Supplier shall have the right to 
invoice.  
 
4. If the deadlines in the Individual Contract are not observed  by the Parties  due to force majeure, 
such as mobilization, war, insurrection or other similar event, e.g. strike or quarantine , exceptional 
natural circumstances (flood, fire, etc.), the deadlines  shall be extended  accordingly .  
 
5. If the Supplier is responsible for the delay and cannot justify it in accordance with the relevant 
rules of the Civil Code, the Customer may claim a contractual  penalty for every  completed week 
of delay equal to 0.5% of the net price of the part of the Sup ply affected by the delay and therefore 
cannot be used. However, the maximum amount of the penalty shall not exceed 5% of the net 
price of the delayed Supplies.   
  
6. In case of delayed  Supplies , the Customer may claim  compensat ion for damages due to this  as 
provided for in Section  VIII. point 7 .  
 
7. If – due to the  request of the Customer  - the S upplies  are delivered more than 1 month later after 
they were  reported to be ready for delivery , the Supplier may charge the Customer for every  
additional month commenced  a storage fee of 1% of the gross price of the relevant items  of the 
Supply . The storage fee shall not exceed 5% of the gross price of the relevant items of the S upply . 
The contract ing Parties  may prove that a higher or, in some cases, lower storage cost has been 
incurred. 
 
 
V.  PASSING OF RISK  
 
1.  The risk shall pass to the Customer when the Supplier  delivers the Supply to the C ustomer. Upon 
the Customer’s explicit written request and at the Customer’s  expense, the Supplier shall insure 
the Supply  against usual risk s of transport . 
 
Regardless of which Party  bears the shipping costs, the risk is borne by the Customer  
 
A) in case of transport : in accordance with Incoterms® 2020 provisions o n the delivery clause,  
 
B) in the case of the provision of services: after its completion.  
 
2. The risk shall pass to the Customer if the delivery is delayed for reasons for which the Customer  
is responsible in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Civil Code or if the Custom er has 
refused  to accept the Supplies without any justifiable grounds , without referring to any defect  in 
quality.  
 
VI.  ASSEMBLY AND INSTALLATION  
 
Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Parties , assembly and installation  shall be subject to  the 
following provisions:  
 
1. The Customer shall  provide for at its own expense and in due time the following:  
 
a) all earth and construction works and  other  ancillary works not covered by the Individual  
Contract, including the necessary staff, construction materials and tools,  
b) equipment and materials  necessary for assembly and installation , scaffold s, lifting  
equipment, hoists and other equipment  as well as  fuels and lubricants,  
c) energy and water supply at the point of use, including connections, heating and lighting,  
d) dry and lockable rooms of su fficient  size in the work site where the Supplier carries out 
its tasks  (eg assembly, installation  etc.) where machine parts, instruments , apparatus , 
 
 
             
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat: H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability  Company , registered at  Company Registry Court of Budapest  Capital Regional Court, registration number : 01-09-345695.  
 
 6 
materials, tools, etc. can be stored and adequate working and recreation rooms for the 
assembly  personnel, including sanitary facilities as are appropriate in the specific 
circumstances  Furthermore , the Customer is obliged to take all measures  to protect its 
own property, the property of the Supplier and the property of the assembly personnel,  
e) the necessary protective clothing and protective equipment that meet the specific 
requirements of the spec ific site. 
 
2. Before  the installation  starts,  the Customer shall voluntarily make available all available 
information and necessary data concerning the location of concealed electric power, gas and 
water pipelines or similar installations . 
 
3. Prior to the commencement of assembly or installation , the materials and equipment necessary 
for the commencement of the work shall be made available at the site of assembly or installation  
and all preparatory work shall be advanced to such a degree  that a ssembly or commissioning can 
begin as agreed and  carried out without interruption. Access roads and the site of assembly or 
installation must be level and clear.  
 
4. If the assembly or installation  is delayed due to circumstances for which  the Supplier  is not 
responsible , the Customer shall bear the reasonable costs incurred for idle times  and the 
additional travel expenses  of the Supplier or the assembly personnel as set out in Section  III. point 
5.  
 
5. In addition to the provisions of this Section, if the Supplier undertook  the assembly or installation  
subject to  individual settlement, the following provisions shall apply:  
 
a) the Customer shall pay the Supplier  any charge, fees and allowances set out in the Individual 
Contract for  work during  working hours, overtime, work in night  shifts , on Sunday , on public 
holiday s work, or in other  extraordinary circumstances, as well as for planning and 
supervision .  
 
b) the following costs shall also be reimbursed separately : 
• travel expenses , 
• hand tools  and 
• transport costs for other equipment , 
• mission expenses for work, working hours, for the time of rest and during travel  
and public holidays, etc.  
 
VII.  ACCEPTANCE OF DELIVERY  
 
The Customer is not entitled to  refuse to accept the S upply  due to  minor defects . Minor defect is 
any defect in a S upply  that does not substantially affect the use of the relevant product in the normal 
course of  operation and does not affect the functionality, operation, maintenance and development 
of the relevant Supply. The Parties  shall separately agree on the management  of minor defects and 
their deadlines.  
  
 
VIII. DEFECTS  IN QUALITY  (GUARANTEE ) 
 
The Supplier shall be liable for quality defects (hereinafter referred to as "Defect") as follows:  
 
1.  The Supplier shall, at its choice,  repair or replace the defective S upply  free of charge or provide 
again the  service provided that the Defect  has already existed when the risk passed .  
 
2.  Claims for repair or replacement are subject to a limitation  period of 1 year  calculated from the 
start of the limitation  period specified in  the Civil Code; the same shall apply mutatis mutandis in 
 
 
             
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat: H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability  Company , registered at  Company Registry Court of Budapest  Capital Regional Court, registration number : 01-09-345695.  
 
 7 
the case of price  reduction  or withdrawal . This rule shall not apply if a longer eligibility  period  is 
prescribed by law for the relevant  Supply . 
If the Supplier has delivered defective product  or performed defectively , the guarantee  period for 
the replaced product  or the re -provided  service is 6 months. The liability for the defect lasts until 
the end of the original warranty period.  
Furthermore , the rules of the Civil Code shall be applicable for the suspension  of the limitation 
period of warranty rights, as well as to interrupt ion and resum ption of  the limitation period  with the 
exception that a warranty claim cannot be enforced beyond the 2 -years limitation period after the 
risk had passed .  
 
3.  The Customer is obliged to report the Defect in writing to the Supplier without delay.  
 
4.  The Supplier shall repair or replace the defective S upplies  within a reasonable period of time. If 
the Supplier cannot  repair or replace or in the case of a Service to perform the repair work, then 
the Customer has the right   
 
a) to terminate the Contract without compensation or partially withdraw from it , or 
b) may request a price reduction . 
 
5.  Claims are excluded based on Defect in cases of insignificant deviations from the agreed quality, 
or natural wear and tear, or damage arising after the passing of risk caused by intentional damage  
or negligent handling, excessive strain , overloading , use of unsuitable equipme nt, inappropriate 
foundation of soil, or claims based on particular external influences not assumed under the 
present GC or the Individual Contract, or form non -repeatable  software errors. Claims based on 
defects attributable to improper modifications or r epair work carried out by the Custome r or third 
Parties  and the consequences thereof are likewise excluded.   
 
6.  The Customer may not claim any costs incurred in connection with the supplementary  
performance including, but not limited to travel, transport and material costs, labour  costs if these 
costs are higher than planned because the S upply  has to be moved to a location other than the 
Customer's premises , unless doing so  results from the norma l use  of the S upply.  
 
 In the event of a defect report, if it turns out after the inspection that the Defect was not under 
warranty, the Customer is obliged to reimburse the Supplier for the incurred and justified costs of 
defect detection, replacement an d repair, and the Customer may not contest it .  
 
7.  The Supplier shall be liable to the Customer for any damage caused to the Customer by late or 
defective performance . However, the liability of the Supplier is excluded in all cases for indirect 
or consequential losse s, in particular for lost profits, loss of production, loss of data. The extent 
of liability for all damages covered by the Individual Contract shall be limited to 50 % of the net 
amount of the Individual Contract affected by the damage. The limitation on the amount of 
compensation shall not apply to Defects concealed in bad faith, as well as to damage s caused 
intentionally by the Supplier or damage s caused to life, physical integrity or health. Any other 
claims of the Customer  in relation to any Defect or any claim based on the breach of the Individual 
Contract or the present GC exceeding the claims provided for in this Section  VIII are excluded  for 
the claims regulated in Section  X. in connection with the impossibility of perf ormance.   
 
IX. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS  AND COPYRIGHT ; DEFECTIVE TITLE  
 
1. The Supplier shall provide to the Custom er the industrial property rights and copyrights 
(hereinafter referred to as " IPR") necessary for the use of the Supplies for their intended purpose. 
The detailed conditions on IPR are included in the Individual Contract. If a third Party  asserts a 
justified claim against the Custom er based on an infringement of an IPR set out in the I ndividual 
Contract, the Supplier shall be liable to the Custom er as follows:   
 
 
 
             
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat: H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability  Company , registered at  Company Registry Court of Budapest  Capital Regional Court, registration number : 01-09-345695.  
 
 8 
a) The Supplier shall choose whether to acquire, at its own expense, the right to use the IPR with 
respect to the relevant Supplies or whether to modify the Supplies that they no l onger infringe 
the IPR or replace them. If this would be impossible for the Supplier under reasonable 
conditions, the Customer may withdraw from the Individual Contract or terminate it with 
immediate effect or demand a proportionate price reduc tion.  
 
b) The Supplier's liability to pay damages is governed by Section VIII.  
 
c) The above obligations of the Supplier shall apply only if the Customer (i) immediately notifies 
the Supplier in writing of any such claim asserted by the third Party , (ii) does not concede the 
existence of an infringement and (iii) leaves all defence  and n egotiations to the Supplier's 
discretion. If the Custom er stops using the Supplies in order to reduce the damage or for other 
good reason, it shall be obliged to point out to the third Party  that no acknowledgement of the 
alleged infringement may be inferr ed from the fact that the use has been discontinued.  
 
2.  Customer's claim is excluded if the Customer is responsible for the IPR  infringement .  
 
3.  Claims of the Customer  are also excluded if the infringement of the IPR is caused by 
specifications not included in the Individual Contract, or by a type of use not foreseeable by the 
Supplier or if the Customer has modified  the Supplies or used it together with products which 
were not provided by the Supplier.  
 
4.  If other defects in title occur, Section VIII . shall apply mutatis mutandis . 
 
X.  IMPOSSIBILITY OF PERFORMANCE, MODIFICATION OF CONTRACT  
 
1.  In the event of impossibility of delivery, the Customer is entitled to claim  resulting  damages, 
unless the Supplier is not responsible for the impossibility. The Supplier's liability for any indirect  
losses is excluded in any event , in particular for the loss of profit, loss of production, loss of data. 
The Custom er's claim for damages is, however, limited to an amount of 10% of the value of the 
part of the Supplies which, owing to the impossibility, c ould not be  used as  intended . This 
limitation shall not apply to damage intentionally caused by the Supplier or to damage s to life , 
physical  integrity or health.  
 
2.  Should an unforesee able e vent pursuant to Section IV. point 3. occur  that substantially changes 
the value or the content of the Supply, or considerably affects the Supplier's business activity, the 
relevant Individual Contract shall be a mended  taking into account the principles of 
reasonableness and good faith. If this can not be expected from the Supplier for economic 
reasons, the Supplier is entitled to withdraw from the given Individual Contract.  If the Supplier 
intends to exercise its right of withdrawal, it shall notify the Customer immediately after having 
realized the  repercussions of the event . This shall be applicable  even whe n an extension of the 
delivery period has previously been agreed with the Custom er. 
 
XI.  PLACE OF JURISDICTION AND APPLICABLE LAW  
 
1.  The Parties  shall attempt to amicably settle any dispute related to this GC . In the absence of a 
result  the Parties  will apply to Hungarian court . 
2.  The present GC and the Individual Contracts concluded on the basis thereof shall be governed 
by Hungarian law  except  for the rules of CISG, the UN Convention on Contracts for the 
International Sale of Goods adopted in Vienna in 1980.  
 
3.  The present GC has been made in English and Hungarian . In case of any discrepancies between 
the two version s, the Hungarian version shall prevail.  
  
 
 
             
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat: H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability  Company , registered at  Company Registry Court of Budapest  Capital Regional Court, registration number : 01-09-345695.  
 
 9 
 
 
XII. TERMINATION WITH IMMEDIATE EFFECT  
 
In addition to any other right of termination set out in the present GC or  in the Individual Contract 
either Party  may terminate the relevant Individual Contract if the other Party  is in serious breach of 
the relevant Individual Contract and fails to take all reasonabl e steps to remedy the breach within 
15 days of the receipt of the notice to this effect.   
 
XIII. SEVE RABILITY CLAUSE   
 
The invalidity of one or more provisions of the present GC or the Individual Contract shall not affect 
the validity of the remaining provisions  unless it would be unreasonable for either  Party  to maintain 
the contract ual obligations.  
 
XIV. RESERVATION CLAUSE  
 
The Supplier’s obligation to fulfil this agreement is subject to  the condition that the fulfilment  is not 
hindered by any impediments arising out of national and international legal requirements related 
to foreign trade or any embargos (and/ or other sanctions ). 
 
XV. COMPLIANCE WITH EXPORT CONTROL REGULATIONS  
 
1.  If Customer transfers products (hardware and/ or software and/ or technology as well as 
corresponding documentation, regardless of the mode of provision) delivered by S upplier  or works 
and services (including all kinds of technical support) performed by S upplier  to a third Party  
worldwide, Custom er shall  comply with all applicable national and international (re -) export control 
regulations. In any event Custom er shall comply with the (re -) export control regulations of 
Hungary, of the European Union and of the United States of America.   
 
2.  If it is required for export control checks, the Custom er shall - upon request by the Supplier  - 
immediately  provide the Supplier  with all information pertaining to the particular end  customer, 
destination and intended use of goods, works and services provided by S upplier , as well as any 
existing export control restrictions.  
 
3.  Customer  shall indemnify and exempt  the Supplier  from all claim s, proceeding s, action s, fine s, 
losses, cost s and damages arising from or relat ed to the Customer’s  noncompliance with export 
control regulations, furthermore  Custom er shall compensate  the Supplier  for all losses and 
expenses resulting thereof, unless the Customer is not responsible for this  noncompliance. This 
provision does not imply a change in burden of proof.  
. 
 
XVI. FINAL PROVISIONS  
 
1.  By concluding the Individual Contract, the Parties  accept that the rights and obligations do not 
necessarily apply to and burden  equally the Parties . The Parties , after careful consideration, 
expressly conclude  the contract in line with th is intention  and at the same time exclude the right 
to appeal on the grounds of significant disproportion in value .  
 
2. By concluding the Individual Contract, the Customer expressly renounce  any possible right to 
enforce any claim (s) against the managers /executives  of the Supplier.  
 
3. The Parties  agree that a written request for payment of a debt under an Individual Contract shall 
interrupt the limitation period.   
 
 
 
             
Siemens Energy Kft . 
Seat: H-1158 Budapest , Késmárk utca 24 -28. 
Phone .: +36 1 414 4600  
www.siemens -energy .com  
 
 
  
Siemens Energy Limited Liability  Company , registered at  Company Registry Court of Budapest  Capital Regional Court, registration number : 01-09-345695.  
 
 10 
4. The Supplier's Code of Conduct forms part of the present GC an d the Individual Contract, the 
current version of which is available at  www.siemens -energy.com . 
        Customer declares that it has read the Code of Conduct and accepts it as binding  on itself . 
 
5. Customer may only transfer the Contract or parts thereof to a third Party  with prior written approval 
of the Supplier.  