General Terms and Conditions of Purchase  
Siemens Energy Ltd. (“Siemens Energy”) (Version 0 3.202 3) 
 
Page  1 of 6 Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  1. Order and Confirmation of Order  
1.1 These General Terms and Conditions (" T&C ") shall apply and are hereby incorporated to all Customer's  Purchase Orders (“PO”) and shall 
constitute an integral part thereof. For the purpose hereof "PO" shall mean a written purchase  order issu ed by Siemens Energy to the Suppli er, 
accompanied by or otherwise referring to these  T&C and all of the r equire ments, sp ecifications or appendi ces attached thereto, and "Supplier" shall 
mean any person  and/or  corpor ation which shall engage with Siemens Energy regarding  the pro vision and/or s ale and/or transfer of any goods 
and/or s ervices as specified in the PO.  
1.2 The PO shall be deemed accepted unless the Supplier  had informed  Siemens Energy in writing otherwise within two business days. The 
acceptance of a PO by the Supplier shall strictly correspond to the PO, including any and all of its terms and conditions . Any deviation thereof and/or 
supplement thereto shall not bind Siemens Energy unless otherwise pre -agreed by the Parties in writing.  
1.3 Any alterations, amendments or additions to the order shall only become a part of the contract if Siemens Energy accepts such in writing. In 
particular, Siemens Energy is bound by the general terms and conditions of the Supplier only to the extent that such are in accordance with these 
T&C or if Siemens Energy agrees to such in writing. The acceptance of deliveries or s ervices as well as payments does not constitute such agreement. 
Any provisions in other documents provided by the Supplier (such as but not limited to specifications, data sheets, technical  documentation, 
advertising materials, order confirmation and/or sh ipping documents) regarding legal terms, liability, restriction of use, restriction of application 
and/or restriction of suitability, or any other provision that changes the provisions of these T&C shall not be applicable.  
1.4 Siemens Energy may cancel th e order if the Supplier has not confirmed acceptance of the order (confirmation) in writing within two weeks of 
receipt.  
1.5 Subcontracting to third parties shall not take place without the prior written consent of the Customer. Upon demand the Suppl ier shall make 
available to the Siemens Energy a list of the subcontractors used in connection with its deliveries and services.  
2. Rights of Use  
2.1 The Supplier hereby grants Siemens Energy the following non -exclusive,  transferable, worldwide and  perpetual rights:  2.1.1 to use the deliveries 
and services including related documentation, to integrate them into other products and to distribute  them;  2.1.2 to install, launch, test and operate 
software and its related documentation (hereinafter collectively referred to as "Software"); 2.1.3 to sublicense the right of  use under section 2.1.2 
above to any  company, partnership or other leg al entity which directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control  with the 
Siemens Energy (hereinafter referred to as "Affiliates") to  contracted third parties, to distributors and to end customers;  2.1.4 to license to Affiliates  
and distributors the right to sublicense  the right of use under section 2.1.2 above to end customers;  2.1.5 to use the Software for integration into 
other products and to  copy the Software, or to allow Affiliates, contracted third parties or distributors to use and copy the Software. 2.1.6 to 
distribute, hire out, lease and make ready for download or make publicly available the Software, e.g. in the context of Appli cation Service Providing 
or in other contexts, and to copy the Software to the extent requir ed, always provided that the number of licenses being used at any one time does 
not exceed the number of licenses purchased; 2.1.7 to sublicense the right of use under section 2.1.6 above to Affiliates con tracted third parties and 
distributors.  
2.2 In addi tion to the rights granted in section 2.1 above, Siemens Energy, Affiliates and distributors are authorized to allow end cust omers to 
transfer the respective licenses.  
2.3 All sublicenses granted by Siemens Energy must contain appropriate protection for t he intellectual property rights of the Supplier in the Software, 
containing the same contractual provisions as used by Siemens Energy to protect its own intellectual property rights .  
2.4 The Supplier shall, in good time but at the latest by the time of or der confirmation, inform Siemens Energy in writing whether the deliveries and 
services contain open -source  components. In the context of this provision, " open -source  components" means any software, hardware or other 
information that is provided royalty -free by the respective licensor to any user on the basis of a license with the right to modify and/or to distribute. 
Should the deliveries and services by the Supplier co ntain open -source  components, the Supplier shall comply with all applicable open -source  
license terms and shall grant all those rights to Siemens Energy  and provide all information which Siemens Energy  needs in order to comply with the 
applicable license t erms. In particular, the Supplier must deliver to the Siemens Energy  promptly after the order is confirmed the following:  A 
schedule of all open-source components used, indicating the relevant license, its version and including a copy of the complete text of such license 
and including a reference to copyright and/or authorship. Such schedule must have an understandable structure and contain a t able of contents.  The 
complete source code of the relevant open -source  software, including scripts and information regarding its generating environment in so far as the 
applicable opensource conditions require this.  
2.5 The Supplier shall, in good time but at the latest by the time of order confirmation, inform the Siemens Energy  in writing whether any open -
source  licenses used by Supplier might be subject to a Copyleft Effect, which could affect the products of the customers. In the contex t of this 
provision, “Copyleft Effect” means that the provision of the open -source  license requires that certain of the Supplier’s products, as well as any 
products derived from such products, may only be redistributed in accordance with the terms of the open -source  license, e.g. only if the source 
code is disclosed. In case any open -source  licenses used by Supplier would be subject t o a Copyleft Effect, Siemens Energy shall be entitled to cancel 
the order within two weeks of receipt of such information without any cost and liability consequences for the Customer.  
3. Term and Delay in Delivery  
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase  
Siemens Energy Ltd. (“Siemens Energy”) (Version 05.2022)  
 
Page  2 of 6  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  3.1 For the purposes of establishing the timeliness of delivery the relevant point in time is the date of receipt at the place of destination/delivery 
according to Incoterms ® 2020 designated by Siemens Energy , and for deliveries involving installation, erection, commissioning or assembly as well  as 
for services (including rectification) the relevant point in time shall be the date of acceptance by Siemens Energy or the end customer, as applicable . 
3.2 If any delay in delivery or performance or rectification is anticipated, Siemens Energy shall be  notified immediately and its decision sought. In 
order to conform with delivery or performance deadlines the Supplier shall in good time undertake all suitable measures (e.g.  shift work, overtime, 
any necessary expedited transport) in order to avoid any d elay. The costs for such measures shall be borne by the Supplier. 3.3 In the event of non -
compliance with the agreed delivery or performance deadlines, Siemens Energy may, without setting any further deadline, waive  the right to 
performance and rescind the  contract without any cost and liability consequences for Siemens Energy and without derogating from any of Siemens 
Energy 's rights and remedies, including  those under these T&C and under  applicable law. 
3.4 Any delay of delivery or performance of a Purchase Order shall constitute a material breach of these T&C and award Siemens Energy  with  a 
liquidated damages  equivalent to amount of 0.5% for each commenced day of delay, but not exceeding 10% of the total PO amount.  The payment 
of such liquidated damages by the Supplier shall not affect any other contractual or legal rights based on late delivery or p erformance and shall not 
release the Supplier from any of its contractual or legal obligations arising from the PO.  
3.5 In case of postponed or subsequently  agreed delivery or performance deadlines the agreed liquidated damages apply accordingly.  
4. Deliveries and Services of the Supplier  
4.1 Unless agreed otherwise, DDP (named place of destination) Incoterms ® 2020 shall apply.  
4.2 The Supplier warrants that deliveries and services will be in accordance with the contract and in perfect condition, free of any defect of title or 
deficiency, produced with raw materials free of any defect and fully functional without limitation and fit for the intended purp ose. This shall include 
in particular compliance with official and legal provisions and safety regulations of the countries of prod uction, destination as well as the State of 
Israel. The Supplier guarantees that deliveries and services at the time of transfer of risk are in accordance with the curre nt state of the art. Siemens 
Energy may return defective goods to the Supplier at the S upplier's cost and demand replacement in accordance with the PO.  
4.3 Any services of the Supplier shall be provided with the greatest care with the use of qualified and trained personnel.  
4.4 Deliveries and services of the Supplier and sub -suppliers shall be subject to the Siemens Energy ’s quality assurance system in accordance with 
ISO9001:2015 standard. Siemens Energy ’s suppliers and sub -suppliers shall be assessed accordingly.  
5. Transfer of  Title and Risk  
For deliveries involving installation, erection, commissioning or assembly as well as services, risk shall transfer to Siemen s Energy on acceptance and 
for deliveries not involving services risk shall transfer to Siemens Energy upon receipt  by Siemens Energy at the place of destination/delivery 
according to Incoterms ® 2020 designated by Siemens Energy.  Transfer of title shall be upon delivery or acceptance by Siemens Energy or the end 
customer , as the case may be.  
6. Packing and Dispatch  
6.1 Unless otherwise agreed, the costs for adequate packaging shall be borne by the Supplier. The packing shall be environmental friendly and shall 
ensure protection against any damage, soiling and moisture during transport and storage.  
6.2 In case transport ation costs are borne by Siemens Energy , notice of readiness for dispatch shall be given together with the information set out in 
section 6.3 hereunder. Transport shall be arranged by the Supplier at the lowest possible cost, insofar as Siemens Energy has  not requested a 
particular method of delivery or the conclusion of the contract for carriage by Siemens Energy . 
6.3 Each delivery shall include a packing note or delivery note with details of the contents as well as the complete order number . 
6.4 As far as  Siemens Energy and the Supplier agree that the Supplier orders the transport of deliveries containing dangerous goods for acc ount of 
Siemens Energy , the Supplier is responsible to transfer the necessary legally required dangerous goods data to the freight  forwarder nominated by 
Siemens Energy when placing the transport order. The Supplier is in these cases also responsible for packing, marking, labeli ng etc. in compliance 
with the regulation to the mode(s) of transport used.  
7. Payment, Invoices  
7.1 The prices set in any respective PO,  shall be set, final, and conclusive   )including VAT) . Unless otherwise agreed, payments are to be made 90  
(ninety) days following t he end of the months in which the goods w ere delivered and/or the s ervices were performed, as applicable ("Shotef" +  
90). 
7.2 The order number as well as the number of each individual  item and a description shall be detailed in invoices. Insofar as any such detai ls are 
omitted, invoices shall not be payable. Copies of invoices  shall be marked as duplicates . 
7.3 The period for payment shall commence as soon as any delivery or service is completed and a correctly issued invoice is  received. Is the Supplier 
required to provide material testing,  test records or quality control documents or a ny other documentation, such shall be a part of the requirements 
of the completeness of the delivery and service.  
7.4 Payment does not constitute an acknowledgement that the corresponding deliveries or services were provided in accordance with  the contract  
(in particular in relation to quantity or quality). Any rights of Siemens Energy to claim shall therefore remain unaffected a lso after payment for the 
deliveries or services. 7.5 Default in payment by Siemens Energy shall require a demand notice subsequen t to the amount being due.  
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase  
Siemens Energy Ltd. (“Siemens Energy”) (Version 05.2022)  
 
Page  3 of 6  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  8. Inspections  
8.1 The Supplier shall inspect the delivery for quantity and quality before dispatch . 
8.2 The delivery shall be inspected by the Siemens Energy as soon as possible after receipt at the named place of destination on  the basis of random 
samples in relation to the type of delivery as  well as quantity and any externally recognizable transportation damage or other obvious deficiencies.  
9. Warranty  
9.1 Supplier warrants that the deliveries and services supplied by it shal l be of good quality, shall be unused in all cases, and shall meet the required 
standards under the PO (including any applicable specifications document) performance and good industry standards. The Suppli er agrees, subject 
to Siemens Energy ’s written request, promptly and at its own expense (including shipping and handling costs and insurance costs but not costs of 
disassembly and reassembly) to repair, remedy, or replace any part of the said deliveries and services which proves in any wa y defective as to design, 
material, or workmanship or otherwise. For the avoidance of doubt rectification or replacement shall be carried out by the Su pplier at the choice of 
Siemens Energy . 
9.2 The Supplier shall be liable for any and all costs, expenses and  damages resulting to Siemens Energy by way of deficient deliveries or services.  
9.3 Until proved to the contrary, during the entire warranty period it shall be assumed that any deficiency existed at the time o f the transfer of risk.  
9.4 Siemens Energy reserves the right to retain any payment in whole or in part until, (i) the Supplier has completely fulfilled its duty to rectify the 
deficiency or the replacement delivery in accordance with the contract, or (ii) the parties have agreed on  other alternative measures, such as but not 
limited to rescission, price reduction or damages in a binding manner.  
9.5 From the time of notification of a deficiency the Supplier shall bear the risk for deficient deliveries.  The Supplier shall,  additional ly bear the costs 
incurred to remove, disassemble, return, reassemble, re -install, re -construct, re -inspect and retest of deficient deliveries as well as all other costs 
(including internal costs), expenses and damage of Siemens Energy in connection with t he complaint and rectification of the deficiency.  
9.6 Should the Supplier fail to rectify (i.e. repair or replacement) within a reasonable time set by Siemens Energy, Siemens Ener gy is entitled, at the 
expense of the Supplier, to undertake any  rectificatio n or replacement it Siemens Energy or arrange for a third party to  do so.  Any deficiency in 
deliveries or services detected at the  time of acceptance, inspection or commissioning may be  rectified by Siemens Energy or it may arrange for 
such to  be rectifie d by third parties immediately at the expense of the  Supplier without the need to set a further deadline if the Supplier delivered 
or provided such in delay.  The same shall apply if Siemens Energy has a particular interest in immediate rectification or re placement delivery in case 
of urgency or in order  to avoid delay .  
9.7 The warranty period shall be two years, unless a longer warranty period is given by law.  
9.8 For deliveries not involving installation, erection, commissioning, assembly the warranty p eriod begins to run with receipt at the place of 
destination named by Siemens Energy. For deliveries involving installation, erection, commissioning or assembly as well as fo r services the warranty 
period begins to run with acceptance by Siemens Energy. Up on delivery to locations where Siemens Energy is operating outside its premises, the 
warranty period begins by acceptance by the end customer, in no case later than one year after the transfer of risk.  
9.9 In case the Supplier has redelivered or rectified  in terms of the warranty, the warranty period shall start anew. The warranty period shall extend 
for the period during which the deliveries cannot be used to the full extent as a result of deficiencies.  
9.10  Any further or additional legal claims are res erved.  
9.11  Acknowledgement of re ceipt of goods, inspections, directions or instructions by the Siemens Energy or by any person acting on behalf of the 
Siemens Energy shall not limit the right to claim under the contract, in particular with regard to deficiencies.  
10. Liability for Intellectual Property Right Infringements  
10.1  The Supplier guarantees that no intellectual property  rights,  including but not limited to copyright, constitute a hindrance  for any use.    
10.2  In the event that any third party  makes any claims against the  Siemens Energy, Affiliates or an end customer of Siemens Energy  in relation to 
intellectual property rights, Siemens Energy shall inform the Supplier of such. The Supplier shall indemnify Siemens Energy a gainst all costs (in 
particular including lawyers and court costs) and justified claims of third parties in connection with intellectual property r ights.  
10.3  In addition Siemens Energy may demand that the Supplier at its own expense and without delay either (i) obtains a right  of use from the party 
in control of the intellectual property right or, (ii) changes those parts of delivery infringing the intellectual property r ights or exchanges such for 
parts which do not infringe the intellectual property rights.  
10.4  The right of  Siemens Energy to enforce any further legal claims shall not be affected hereby.  
11. Provided Material, Information  
11.1  The Supplier is obliged to examine components such as, e.g.  raw material provided by Siemens Energy or provided by the  Supplier’s supp liers, 
manufacturers or other third parties at the time of receipt of such components as to whether these components show any obviou s or hidden 
defects. In case any defects are discovered in the course of such inspections, the Supplier shall immediately in form its suppliers or – in case the 
components are provided by the Siemens Energy – inform the Customer.  
11.2  Material and information provided by Siemens Energy remains the property the Siemens Energy and are to be stored, labeled as property of 
Siemens En ergy and administered separately at no expense. Its use is limited to the orders of Siemens Energy only. The Supplier shall s upply 
replacements in the event of reduction in value or loss. This also applies transfer of allocated material. Any processing or transformation of the 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase  
Siemens Energy Ltd. (“Siemens Energy”) (Version 05.2022)  
 
Page  4 of 6  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  material and information shall take place for Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy immediately become owner of the new or transform ed product. 
Should this be impossible for legal reasons, Siemens Energy and the Supplier hereby agree that Si emens Energy shall be the owner of the new 
product at all times during the processing transformation. The Supplier shall keep the new product for Siemens Energy at no e xtra cost to Siemens 
Energy and doing shall exercise the duty of care of a merchant.  
12. Tools, Patterns, Samples, Confidentiality  
12.1  Any tools, patterns, samples, models, profiles, drawings,  specification, printing templates, gauges and other material  provided by Siemens 
Energy or made on its behalf, as well   as any materials derived there from, shall remain the property  of Siemens Energy and shall not be made 
available to any third  party nor used for any other purpose than contractually  agreed, except with the prior written consent of Siemens Energy.  Such 
materials shall be protected agains t unauthorized access or use and shall be labeled as the property of Siemens Energy. Notwithstanding any other 
rights, the Siemens Energy may demand the immediate return of such materials if the Supplier breaches its contractual obligat ions.   
12.2  Siemens Energy is not responsible for the content of any information, data, drawings, specifications and materials which it makes ava ilable to 
the Supplier in connection with the order. The Supplier shall have a responsibility to check that it is up to date and co rrect and, if this should not be 
the case or in case of any possible contradictions, the Supplier shall inform Siemens Energy of such without delay in writing  and shall seek 
clarification as to how to proceed. Any incorrectness shall not affect the respons ibility of the Supplier in relation to its scope of deliveries and 
services.  
12.3 The Supplier shall treat as confidential and shall not make available to third parties any data, drawings, specifications,  materials, knowledge or 
findings, documents, terms  of reference, business processes or other information that it receives  from or about the Siemens Energy in the context of 
performing the  deliveries and services, as well as the conclusion of the contract and any results, with regard to third parties – and shall keep the 
same confidential beyond the term of the contract -for as long as and insofar as such information has not become  publicly known by legal means or 
Siemens Energy has not consented in writing to its transfer in the individual case. In the e vent the Supplier is r equired to dis close such information b y 
law or pursuant to a ruling of a court of competent jurisdi ction, it shall promptly notify Siemens Energy of  such requirement, disclose only the 
Confidential Information expressly prescribed therein and allow Siemens Energy  a reasonable time to oppose such disclosure, if and to the extent 
applicable.  
12.4  The Supplier shall use this information exclusively for the purpose of   performing the deliveries and services. The Supplier shall  make 
Information available only to those employees who need  the Information for the fulfillment of their duties and shall ensure that such employees are 
also subject to a duty to treat  such information as confidential. Insofar as Siemens Energy agrees to any su bcontracting to third parties, such shall 
be made subject to a corresponding duty in writing.  
12.5  The Supplier hereby undertakes to return  any and all information received from Siemens Energy upon its request or the termination of the 
engagement of Siemens Energy and the Su pplier, the earlier to occur.  
13. Supplier’s Liability  
13.1  The Supplier shall be fully responsible and liable with respect to any defect, fault, da mage, har m, deficiency and/or non-compatibility relating 
to and/or in connection with any goods and/or other deliverables delivered and/or any services performed by it under any PO. 
13.2  If Siemens Energy is made subject to any claims by third parties in connection with deliveries by the Supplier, Siemens Energy will notify the 
Supplier of such. The Supplier shall indemnify Siemens Energy against all justified claims of third parties as well as the co sts (including in particular 
lawyers and court costs), provided such are caused by a defic iency in the deliveries from the Supplier. The Supplier shall support Siemens Energy in 
such dispute.  
13.3  In addition, the Supplier shall reimburse Siemens Energy for all costs caused thereby as a result of measures Siemens Energy must take in order 
to prevent any risk, such as but not limited to warnings or precautionary recall actions of a defective product . Any costs for the determination of the 
risk (in particular expert costs) as well as internal administration and processing costs of Siemens Energy shall be borne by  the Supplier unless the 
Supplier provide the proof of cause.  
14. Assignment of Claims, Set -off 
Any assignment of claims existing in relation to Siemens Energy as well as any set -off of counterclaims is only allowed with the prior written approval 
of Siemens Energy . 
15. Right to Terminate  
15.1  In addition to any rights provided by law  to withdraw from or cancel a contract, the Siemens Energy may cancel the contract in whole or in part 
in case (a) the Supplier is in delay with its delivery or service and such delay – despite a corresponding demand notice by Siemens Energy – persists 
for more than 2 weeks after receipt of such demand notice, or in case (b) that the adherence to the contract by Siemens Energy ca nnot reasonably 
be expected from the Siemens Energy because of a reason attributable to the Supplier and taking into consideration the circumstances in the 
individual case as well both parties’ interests. This might, in particular, apply in case of an actual or possible deteriorat ion of the Supplier’s financial 
situation thus threatening the due fulfillment of the Supplier’s obligatio ns under the contract.  
15.2  Siemens Energy may also terminate the contract in case insolvency proceedings or similar proceedings in relation to the asset s of the Supplier 
are applied for or commenced.  
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase  
Siemens Energy Ltd. (“Siemens Energy”) (Version 05.2022)  
 
Page  5 of 6  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  15.3  In case of a termination by Siemens Energy Siemen s Energy may continue to utilize existing facilities, deliveries and services already performed 
by the Supplier in exchange for reasonable payment.  
16. Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Security in the Supply Chain  
16.1  The Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal system(s). In particular, the Supplier shall not engage, actively or 
passively, nor directly or indirectly in any form  of bribery, in any violation of basic human rights of employees  or any child labor. Moreover, the 
Suppli er shall be responsible  for the health and safety of its employees and shall fulfill the  applicable minimum wage requirements. By acting in 
accordance with the applicable environmental laws the Supplier shall  take adequate measures to avoid the deployment of so -called  conflict minerals 
and shall create transparency over the origin of raw materials. The Supplier shall provide a protected grievance mechanism fo r its own employees to 
report possible violations of this Code of Conduct and will use reasonable ef forts to promote this Code of Conduct among its suppliers.  
16.2  The Supplier shall provide necessary organizational instructions and take measures, particularly with regard to the following  security: premises 
security, packaging and transport, business par tner, personnel and information in order to guarantee the security in the supply chain according to 
the requirements of respective internationally recognized initiatives based on the WCO SAFE Framework of Standards (e.g. AEO,  C-TPAT). The 
Supplier shall pr otect the deliveries and services provided to Siemens Energy or provided to third parties designated by Siemens Energy agains t 
unauthorized access and manipulation. The Supplier shall only deploy reliable personnel for those deliveries and services and  shall obligate any of its 
suppliers to take equivalent security measures.  
16.3  In addition to other rights and remedies Siemens Energy may have, Siemens Energy may terminate the contract in case of breach  of these 
obligations by the Supplier. However, provide d that the Supplier's breach of contract is capable of remedy, the Customer's right to terminate is 
subject to the proviso that such breach has not been remedied by the Supplier within a reasonable grace period set by Siemens  Energy.  
17. Product Conformity , Product Related Environmental Protection, Dangerous Goods, Occupational Health and Safety  
17.1  Should the Supplier deliver products to which product related statutory and legal requirements apply, then the Supplier must ensure 
compliance of the products with these requirements at the time of transfer of risk. Furthermore, the Supplier shall ensure that all documents and 
information which are necessary to provide the proof of conformity of products with the respective requirements can be furnis hed immediately to 
Siemens Energy upon request. Should the delivery contain goods which are classified as da ngerous goods according to international regulations, the 
Supplier shall inform Siemens Energy hereof in a form agreed upon between the Supplier and Siemens Energy, but in no case lat er than the date of 
order confirmation.  
17.2  The Supplier is obliged to c omply with all legal requirements regarding the health and safety of the personnel employed by the Supplier. It must 
ensure that the health and safety of its personnel as well as indirect sub -contractors employed to per - form the deliveries and services ar e 
protected.  
18. Cybersecurity  
18.1  Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and technical measures to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and availability of 
Supplier Operations as well as products and services. These measures shall be consistent with good industry practice and shall include an 
appropriate information security management system consistent with good industry standards. “Supplier Operations” means all a ssets, processes 
and systems (including information systems), data ( including Siemens Energy data), personnel, and sites, used or processed by Supplier from time to 
time in the performance of this Agreement.  
18.2  Should products or services contain software, firmware, or chipsets:  18.2.1 Supplier shall implement appropriat e standards, processes and 
methods to prevent, identify, evaluate and repair any vulnerabilities, malicious code, and security incidents in products and  services which shall be 
consistent with good industry practice; 18.2.2 Supplier shall continue to suppo rt and provide services to repair, update, upgrade and maintain 
products and services including the provision of patches to Siemens Energy remedying vulnerabilities for the reasonable lifet ime of the products and 
services; 18.2.3 Supplier shall provide to Siemens Energy a bill of materials identifying all third -party software components contained in the 
products. Third -party software shall be up -to-date at the time of delivery to Customer;18.2.4 Supplier shall grant to Siemens Energy the right, but 
Siemens Energy shall not be obliged, to test or have tested products for malicious code and vulnerabilities at any time, and shall ad equately support 
Customer;  18.2.5 Supplier shall provide Siemens Energy a contact for all information  security related issues (avai lable during business hours).   
18.3  Supplier shall promptly report to Siemens Energy all relevant information security incidents occurred or suspected and vulner abilities 
discovered in any Supplier Operations, services and  products, if and to the extent Si emens Energy is or is likely to be materially affected.  
18.4 Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its  subcontractors and suppliers shall, within a reasonable time,  be bound by 
obligations similar to the provisions of this section  18. 
18.5  Upon Siemens Energy’s request, Supplier shall provide written evidence of its compliance with this section 18 including gener ally accepted 
audit reports.  
19. Export Control and Foreign Trade Data Regulations  
19.1 The Supplier shall comply with all app licable export control,  customs and foreign trade regulations (“Foreign Trade Regulations”). In particular, 
Supplier represents and warrants that none of its Products nor its Services provided under this Agreement contain products an d/or services 
restricte d for import under the Foreign Trade Regulations applicable to the Buyer, including but not limited to Council Regulations (E U) 833/2014, 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase  
Siemens Energy Ltd. (“Siemens Energy”) (Version 05.2022)  
 
Page  6 of 6  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  692/2014, 2022/263 or 765/2006, each as amended, and import restrictions enforced by the U.S. Customs and Border Prote ction.X.2 Supplier shall 
advise Buyer in writing within [weeks/days prior to] of receipt of the order - and in case of any changes without undue delay - of any information 
and data required by Buyer to comply with all Foreign Trade Regulations in case of e xport and import as well as re -export, including without 
limitation: All applicable export list numbers, including the Export  Control Classification Number according to the U.S.   Commerce Control List 
(ECCN); and - The statistical commodity code according to  the current  commodity classification for foreign trade statistics and  the HS (Harmonized 
System) coding; and - The country of origin (non -preferential origin) and – upon  request of Siemens Energy - Supplier’s declaration of preferential 
origin (in case of E uropean suppliers) or preferential certificates (in case of non -European suppliers).   
19.2  Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage incurred by Buyer due to any breach of the obligations according to 1 9.1. 
19.3 Siemens Energy shall not be obligated to fulfill the contract if such fulfillment is prevented by any impediments arising out of  national and 
international foreign trade or customs requirements or any embargos or other sanctions.  
20. General provision  
20.1 These T &C are the binding  and final expression  of the parties’ agreements and un derstandings, as a complete and exclusive statement with 
respect to all of its su bject matters and su persede any and all pri or and contemporaneous agreements and communications, whether oral, written or 
otherwise, concerning  any and all matters contained.  
20.2 Non-Waiver: The failure of Siemens Energy to  insist  upon stri ct performance of any provision of these T&C and/or any PO or to e xercise 
any right arising out of s uch neither impairs th at provision or right nor constitut es a waiver of th at provision or right, in  whole or in part, in th at 
instance or in any other inst ance.  
20.3.  Severabilit y: If a court of competent jurisdi ction adjudi cates any part of this A greement in valid, unenforceable or illegal, such adjudication 
shall not affect or impair, in whole at in part, th e validity, enforceability, or legality of any remaining portions of this A greement. All remaining 
portions re main in full force and effect as if the original Agreement had been executed without the in validated, unenforc eable or illegal part.  
20.4  The Supplier's undertakings under Sections 9., 10,12.3, 12.4 & 13  shall survive the expiration or termination of any PO, agreement and/or any 
other written instru ment signed by Siemens and the Sup plier. 20.5 Governing Law; Jurisdi ction:  This Agreement shall be governed by the l aw of the 
State of Israel with  exclusive and sole juris diction of the competent courts of Tel Aviv, Israel. 