Confidential   
 
 
 
Conditi onsof Purchase   
Statu s: April 2025  
1.        Orde rand Confirmation  of Order   
1.1      The Customer  may cancel  the order if  the Supplier  has not conf irmed   
acceptance  of the order (conf irmation) in writing  within two weeks of  
receipt.  
1.2      Any alterations,  amendments  or additions to the orde r shallonly be-  
come  a part  of the contrac t if the Customer  accepts  such  in writing.  In  
particular,  theCustomer  is bound b y the genera lterms  and conditions   
oftheSupplie ronlytotheextent tha tsucharein accordanc ewiththese   
Cond itions  of Purchase  or if the Customer  agrees to such  in writing.   
The acceptance  of deliveries  or ser vices as we llas pa yments does  not  
constitute  such  agreement.   
1.3      Any provisions  in other  documents  provided b y the Supp lier (such  as  
but not lim ited to specificat ions, datasheets,  technica ldocumentation,   
advertising materials,  order confirmation and/or sh ipping  documents)   
regardin glegalterms,  liability, restriction  of use,  restriction  of applica -  
tion and/or  restrict ion of su itability, or an y other  provision that changes   
the provisions  of these Cond itions  of Purchase  shall notbe applicab le.  
2. Rights  of Use  
2.1      The Supplier  hereb y grants  the Customer  the following  non-exclusive,  
transferab le, worldwide  and perpetua lrights:   
2.1.1  to use  the de liveries  and ser vices including  relate ddocumentation,  to  
integrate  them  into other products  andto distribute  them;   
2.1.2  to install , launch,  test and operate software an dits related documenta -  
tion (hereinafter  collectively referred  toas “Software”);   
2.1.3  to sublicense  the right of use  under section  2.1.2above to affiliates  (as  
defined b y §15of the German  Compan ies Act (Aktiengeset z), herein -  
afterreferre dtoas“Affiliates”),tocontracte dthirdparties,todistributors   
andto end customers;   
2.1.4  to license  to Affiliate s and other d istributors  the right  to sublicense  the  
rightof use under section  2.1.2 abo ve to en dcustomers;   
2.1.5  to use the Software for integrat ion into other  products  and to  copy the  
Software,  or to allow  Affiliates,  contracted  third parties  or distributors  to  
use and cop y the Software;   
2.1.6  to distribute,  sell, hire out, lease , make read y for download or ma ke  
publicl yavailabl ethe Software ,e.g.intheconte xtof applicationser vice  
providing or  in other conte xts, and to cop y the Software to the e xtent  
required,  always pro vided that the numbe r of licenses  being used  at  
any one time  does not e xceed the number  of licenses  purchased;   
2.1.7  to sub license  the right  of us e unde r section  2.1.6above to Affil iates,   
contracted  third parties  and d istributors.   
2.2  In add ition to the rights  grante d in section  2.1 abo ve, the  Customer,   
Affiliates and distributor s are authori zed to allow end customer s to  
transfer  the respecti ve licenses.   
2.3      Allsublicenses  granted b y the Customer  must  contain  appropriat epro-  
tectio nfortheintellectualpropert yrightsoftheSupplie rintheSoftware.   
All sublicense s must  conta in any contractua lprovision s used by the  
Customer  to protect  its own intelle ctualpropert y rights.   
2.4      The Supplier  shall  inform the Customer  - at the latest  at the time  the  
order is  confirmed  - whether the products  and ser vices to be de livered   
contain  opensourc ecomponents.   
In the conte xt of th is provision “open sourc ecomp onents”  means any  
software,  hardware or other informat ion that is provided ro yalty-free by   
the respecti ve licensor  to an y user on the basis  ofa license  with the  
right to modify and/or to distribute  (e.g.GNU  Genera lPublic  License   
(GPL),  the GNU  Lesser  GPL(LGPL),  or the MIT License).  Shou ld the   
products  and ser vices delivered b y the Supplier  contain  open source   
comp onents,  the Supplier  shallcompl y with allapplicable  opensource   
license  terms  and shal lgrant a llthose rights  to the Customer  and pro -  
vide al linformat ion which the Customer  needs  in order to comp ly him-  
self with the applicable  license  terms.  In particu lar, the Supplier  must   
delivertotheCustome rprompt lyafterthe orde risconfirmedth efollow -  
ing:  
-    A schedule  of all open sourc ecomponents  used, indicat ing the rel -  
evant license,  its version and including  a cop y of the complete  text  
ofsuchlicensean dincluding areferenc etocopyrightand/o rauthor -  
ship. Such schedule  must  have an understandab le structure  and  
contain  a table  of contents.   
-    The complete  source code  of the rele vant open sourc esoftware,   
including  scripts  and information  regarding  its generating  environ-  
mentinsofar  as th eapplicable  open sourc econditions  require this.  
2.5      The Supplier  shall  by the time of order conf irmation  at the latest  inform  
the Customer  in writing  whether  any open sourc elicenses  used  by the  
Supplier  might  be subject  to a Cop yleft Effec t which  could affect  the  
products  of the Customer.  In the conte xt of this  provision, “Cop yleft Ef -  
fect“ means that the pro visions  of the ope nsourc elicense  require  that   
 
 
 
 
 
certai nof the  Supplier’s products, as  wellas any products  derived from   
such  products,  may only be redistributed  in accordance with  the terms   
of the  open sourc elicense,  e.g.only if the source  code is  disclosed.  In  
case  any open sourc elicenses  used  by the Supplier  are subject  to a  
“Cop yleftEffect”asdefinedabove,thentheCustome risentitle dtocan-  
celtheorder within  two wee ks of receipt  of this informat ion.  
3. Term  and P enalty for Bre ach  
3.1      For thepurposes of  establishin gthe timel iness of deli very, therelevant  
point in time is the dat eof receipt  at the place  of destinat ion/deli very  
according  to Incoterms  ® 2020 designated  by the Customer,  and for   
deliveriesinvolvinginstallat ion,comm issioningorrectifi cationser vices,   
the rele vant point  in time shallbe the date of  acceptance  by the Cus -  
tomer.   
3.2  Ifanydelayin deliveryorperformanc eorrectificat ion isanticipated ,the  
Customer  shall be not ified immed iatelyand its decision  sought.   
3.3  If –in the e vent of dela y –the Supplier cannot  prove that it  is not re -  
sponsible  for the dela y, the Customer  may charge  a pena lty in respect   
of each commenced  working  day of de lay amounting  to 1% (one    
percent) but not  exceed ing a tota lof 10 % ( ten percent)  of  
the tota lvalue ofthe contract.   
Intheevent thattheappropriat ereser vation ofrightsis notmadeatthe  
timeofacceptanc eofdelivery,servicesorrectifi cation,thi spena ltymay   
stillbeclaimedi fthereser vationofrights  ismadenolaterthanthe date   
of finalpayment.   
3.4      Additiona lor other statutor y rights  are not affected  hereb y.  
4. Transfer  of Ris k,Dispatch  and Place  of Performance,  Transfer  of  
Title   
4.1      For deliveries involving  installat ion, comm issioning or services, the  
transfer  of ris k occurs  on acceptance  and for deli veries  not involving  
installat ion or comm issioning, the transfer  of ris k shallbe upon rece ipt  
by the Customer  at the nam ed place  of destination/del ivery according   
to Incoterms  ® 2020. Unless  agreed otherwise,  DDP  (named place  of  
destin ation)Incoterm s®2020shallapply, if(a)theseatofthe Supplier   
andthename dplace o fdestinatio narewithinthesamecountr yorif(b)  
the seat  of the Supplier  and the name dplace  of destination  are both   
within  the European Un ion. If neither  (a) nor (b)  are fu lfilled,  then DAP   
(name d place of destination ) Incoterm s ® 2020 shall apply, unless   
agreed otherwise.   
4.2      Unles s otherwis e agreed , the costs of adequat e packaging shall be  
borne b y the Supplier.  In cas e transportat ion costs  are borne b y the  
Customer,  notice  ofreadiness  for dispatch shal lbe gi ven together  with  
the informat ion set out in sect ion 4.3 hereunder. On th eCustomer ’s re-  
quest a Siemens  Energ y routing order too lmust  be used b y the Sup -  
plier.Transpor tshallbearrange dbytheSupplie ratthe lowes tpossib le  
cost,  insofar  as theCustomer  has no trequested  a particu lar metho dof  
delivery or the conclusion  of the contract  for carriage  by the Customer.   
Anysupp lementar ycostsarisin gfromnon-conformit ywiththetransport   
requirement sinclud ingcost sarisin gfromthenon-applicat ionoftheSie-  
mens  Energ y routing  order too lshall be borne b y the Supplier.  In case   
DAP/DDP (named place  of destination)  Incoterms  ® 2020 is  agreed,   
the Custome r may also determine  the metho dof transportation.  Any  
supp lementar y costs  arising  from the need to meet  the deli very dead -  
line by way of expedited deli very shallbe borne b y the Supplier.   
4.3      Each  delivery shallinclude  a pac king note or deli very notewith details   
of the  contents  as wel las the comp lete order number.   
4.4      As far  as th eCustomer  and th eSupplier  agree that th eSupplier  orders   
the transport  of deli veries  contain ing dangerous goods  for account of   
the Customer,  the Supplier  is responsible  to transfer  the necessar y le-  
gallyrequire ddangerou s good sdatatothefreigh tforwarde rnominated   
by the Customer  when placing  the transport order. The  Supplier  is in  
these case s also responsibl e for packing , marking, labelling , etc. in  
comp liance with the regulatio n relevant to the mode(s ) of transport   
used.   
4.5  If the Customer  informs  the Supplier  that following  the in itialtransport   
another transport  with a different  mode  of transport  is scheduled,  the  
Supplie rwillalsofollowth erelevantlegalrequirement sconcern ingdan-  
gerous goods with  regard t osuch  on-going  transport.   
4.6      Transfer  of title  shall be upon deli very or acceptance  by the Customer,   
as the  case ma y be.  
5. Payment, Invoices   
5.1      Unless  otherwise  agreed, pa yments shall  be due and pa yable no later   
than90 (ninet y) days net.  The period fo rpaymentshallcommenc eas  
soonasanydeliveryorserviceiscomp leted anda correctl y issued   
invoice is  received, according  to Siemens  Energ y procedures.  
5.2      The order num ber as wel las the number  of each indi vidualitem shall  
be detaile d in invoices . Insofa r as any such detail s are omitted , in-  voices sha llnot be pa yable. Copies  of invoices  shall be mar ked as  
du-  

Confidential  plicates.   
5.3  Insofar as the Supp lier is required  to pro vide materia ltesting,  test rec-  
ords or  qualit y contro ldocument s or an y other  documentation,  such   
shallbe a part of the requirements  of the completeness  of the deli very  
or performance.  A discoun tshall also be allowed  if the Customer  sets  
offorwithhold sanypayment stoareasonable  extenton accoun tofany  
deficienc y.  
5.4      Paymentdoesnotconstitut eanacknowledgeme ntthatthecorrespond -  
ing delivery or ser vices were pro vided in accordance  with thecontract.  
6. Inspection upon receipt   
6.1      The Custome r shallimmed iately uponreceipt at the named  place of  
destin ationexamin ewhethe radeliverycorrespond stothequantityand  
typeofproduct sordere dandwhethe rthere ar eanyexterna lrecogni za-  
ble transportation  damage or  other ob vious def iciencies.   
6.2      Should  the Custome r discover an y deficienc y in the course  ofthese   
inspection s or at an y later stage,  it shallinform  the Supplier  of such   
deficienc y.  
6.3      Comp laints  may be raised  within  one month  of deli very of a product or   
performance,  and insofar  as deficienc ies are not disco vered unti lcom-  
mission ing, processing  or first  use, within  one month  of detection.   
6.4  In this regard the Customer  shallhave no other  duties  to the Supplier   
other than the dut ies of inspection  and notif ication  above.  
7.        Warranty   
7.1  Ifdeficiencies  areidentified  befor eordurin gthetransfe rofriskorduring   
thewarrant yperio dprovided forinsectio n7.8or 7.9 ,theSupplie rmust   
at its  own e xpense and at  the d iscretion  of the Customer  either  repair   
the deficienc y or pro vide re-performance  of ser vices or replacement  of  
deliveries  (= rectifi cation). This provision  also applies  to deli veries  sub-  
ject to inspect ion by sample  tests.  The discretio nof the Customer  shall  
be exercised fairl y and reasonabl y.  
7.2      Should  the Supplier  failto rect ify (i. e. repa ir or replacement)  any defi-  
cienc y within a reasonable time  perio dset by the Customer,  the Cus-  
tomer  is entitled  to:  
7.2.1   cancel  the contract  in whole or in  part without  being subject  to any lia-  
bility for damages;  or  
7.2.2   demand a reduction  in price;  or  
7.2.3   underta ke itse lf any repair  at the e xpense of the Supplier  or re-perfor -  
mance  of ser vices or replaceme nt of deli veries  or arrang efor such to   
be done; and   
7.2.4   claim damages  in lieu of performance.   
For th epurposes of  estab lishing thetimelines s of rectif ication,  the rele -  
vant po int in time is the dat eof rece ipt at theplace of  destinat ion.  
7.3      The rights  according  to section  7.2 ma y be exercised without  further   
deadline if the Customer  has a strong particular  interest  in immed iate  
rectifi cationinordertoavoidany liability of itsownfordelayorforother   
reason sofurgenc yanditisnotreasonabl efortheCustome rtorequest   
the Supplier  to rectif y the def icienc y within a reasonable  time period.   
The legalprovisions  on the dispensabil ity of setting  a deadline  rema in  
unaffected  hereb y.  
7.4      The above-mentione drights  shallexpire one year from  the dat eof no-  
tification  of the def icienc y but in  no instance  before the e xpiry of the   
warrant y periods  set out in  this section.   
7.5      Additiona lor other statutor y rights  are not affected  hereb y.  
7.6  If the Supplier  provides subsequent performanc e or repairs,  the war -  
ranty period s set out in sectio n7.8 and 7. 9 shall begin to run once   
again.  
7.7      Notwithstand ing the transfe r of risk regardin g delivery, the Supplier   
shall bear the costs and risk relate d to the rectificat ion (e. g. return   
costs,  costs of transport,  costs  of de - and re -installat ion).  
7.8      The warrant y period  for def iciencies  of materia lis three years, insofar   
as no statutor y provisions  provide longer  periods.   
7.9      The warrant y period  for deficiencie s in title is five years, insofar  as no  
statutor y provisions  provide longer  periods.   
7.10    For de liveries  not in volving installa tion or commi ssioning, the warranty   
period  begins  to run with  receipt at the p lace of  destination  named  by  
the Customer . For deliveries involving instal lation , commis sioning or  
services,thewarrant yperio dbeginstorunwithacceptanc ebytheCus-  
tomer.  Upon deli very to locations  where the Customer  is operating  out-  
side its prem ises, the warrant y period  begins  with the acceptance  by  
the end customer,  inno case later than one year after transfer  of ris k.  
8. Supplie r’s Duty to Verify and to Inform   
8.1      The Supplier  is obliged  to examine  components  such  as, e.g.raw ma -  
terial,providedbytheCustome rorprovidedbytheSupplier ’ssuppliers,   
manufacturers  or other  third parti es at the time of rece ipt of such  com-  
ponents as to whether  these comp onents  show  any obvious or  hidden   
defects.  In case  any defect sare d iscovered in  the course  ofsuch  in-  
spections,th eSupplie rshallimmed iatelyinform  itssupplier sor–inthe  
case  the comp onents  are pro vided b y the Customer  –inform  the Cus -  
tomer.   
 
8.2  It is essent ial that the product s are delivered free of any third-party   
rights.  Thusthe Supplier  is under a dut y to verify title and inform  the  
Customer  of an y possible  conflic ting industria landintellectua lproperty   
rights.  Any breach of  such dut y issubject  to the norma lstatutor y limita-  tion period.   
9.        Qualit y Management, Subcontracting  to Third  Parties   
9.1      TheSupplie rshallmaintain aqualit ymanagemen tsystem(e.g.accord -  
ing toDIN EN  ISO 9001).   
9.2      Subcontractin gtothirdpartie sshallnottakeplacewithou tthepriorwrit-  
ten consent  of the Customer  and ent itles the Customer  to cancel  the  
contract  in whole  or in part and claim  damag es.  
10.      Provided Material,  Information   
10.1    Materia land information  provided b y the Customer  remains  the prop -  
erty of the Customer  and are to  be stored, labeled  as propert y of the  
Custome r and admin istere d separate ly at no cost to the Customer.   
Their  use is  limited to the orders  of the Customer  only. The  Supplier   
shallsuppl y replacements  inthe e vent of  reduction  of value or loss,  for  
which the Supplie r is responsible,  even in the e vent of  simple  negli -  
gence. This  also applies  to the transfer  of allocated  material.   
10.2    Any processing  or transformat ion of the material  and information  shall   
take place for the Customer.  The Customer  shallimmed iately become   
owner of the  new or transformed  product. Should  this be imposs ible for  
legalreasons,  the Custome r and th e Supp lier hereb y agree that the   
Customer  shall  be the owner of  the new product at al ltimesduring  the  
processing  or transformation.  The Supplier  shall keep the  new product   
safefortheCustome ratnoextra costandinsodoingexercis etheduty   
of care  ofa merchant.   
11.      Tools,  Patterns,  Samples ,Confidentiality   
11.1    Any tools, patterns , samp les, mode ls, profiles , drawin gs, standard   
specif ication sheets,  printing  templates  and materials  provided b y the  
Customer  or made  for the Customer,  as well as an y materials  derived  
there from,  shall not be made  available  to an y third party nor used  for  
anyotherpurpos ethanthosecontractuall yagree dexceptwiththeprior   
writte n consen t of the Customer . Such material s shall be protected   
against unauthori zed access  or use. Subject  to an y further rights  the  
Customer  may demand that such  materia ls be returned if  the Supplier   
breaches these  duties.   
11.2    TheSupplie rshalltreatasconfidentia ltheknowledg eandfindings,doc -  
uments, terms  of reference,  business  processes  or other information   
thatit receives from  or about t he Customer  intheconte xt of performing   
the deli veries  and ser vices, as well as the conclusion  of the contract   
and an y results,  with regard t othird parties  - and shal lkeep the same   
confidentia lbeyond theterm ofthecontrac t–foras longasandinsofar   
as such  information  has not become  publicl y known b y legalmeans or  
theCustome rhasnotconsente dinwritingt oitstransfe rintheindividual   
case .TheSupplie rshallmakeconfidentia linformat ionavailabl eonlyto  
those emp loyees who need the information  for the fulfi llment  of their   
duties and shal lensure th at such emplo yees are also  subject  to aduty   
to treat  such informat ion as confident ial. The Supplier  shall use this  in-  
format ion exclusively for the purpose of performing  the deli veries  and  
services. Insofa r as the Custome r agree s to an y subcontracting  to a  
third party, such  third party shallagree to such  terms  in writing.   
12.      Assignment  of Claims   
Any assignm ent of an y claim is only allowed  with the prior  written  ap-  
proval of the Customer.   
13.      Right  to Terminate  and Cancel   
13.1  In addition  to an y rights  provided b y law to withdraw  from or cancel  a  
contract,  the Customer  may cancel  the contract  in whole  or in part in   
case  (a) the Supp lier is in delay with its delivery or ser vice and such   
delay –despite  a corresponding  reminder  by the Customer  - persists   
for more  than two  weeks after receipt  of such  reminder  or in case (b)   
that adherence to the contract  by the Customer  cannot reasonabl y be  
expected from  the Custome r because of a reason attributable  to the   
Supplier  and ta king into  consideration  the circum stances  of the case   
andbothparties`  interests.  This might,in particu lar, applyin case o fan  
actua lor possible  deterioration  of theSupplier ’s financia lsituation  thus   
threatening the due fulfil lment  of the Supplier ’s obligat ions under the   
contract.   
13.2    The Customer  may also terminate  the contract  in case  insolvency pro-  
ceed ings or sim ilar proceedings  inrelation  tothe assets  of the Supplier  
are applie dfor or commenced.   
13.3  In case  of a terminat ion by the Customer  the Customer  may continue  
to utili ze existing  facilities, deliveries  or ser vices already performed  by  
the Supplier  in exchange for reasonable  payment.  
14.      Code of Conduct  for Siemens  Energ y Suppliers ,Securit y in the  
Suppl y Chain   
14.1    The Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal 
system(s). In particular, the Supplier will not engage, actively or passively, nor 
directly or indirectly in any form of bribery, in any violation of basic human rights of 
employees or any child labor and the Supplier shall comply with the regulations of 
the Siemens Energy Code of Conduct and address these expectations to its own 
suppliers along its supply chain. Moreover, the Supplier will take responsibility for 
the health and safety of its employees and shall fulfill the applicable minimum wage 
requirements. By acting in accordance with the applicable environmental laws, the 
Supplier shall take adequate measures to avoid the deployment of so -called conflict 
minerals and shall create t ransparency over the origin of raw materials. The 
Supplier shall provide a protected grievance mechanism for its own employees to 
report possible violations of this Code of Conduct and will take reasonable 
measures to make its suppliers comply with the pri nciples of this Code of Conduct 
and to verify this on a risk basis. Supplier shall be obliged to duly document its 
compliance with the Code of Conduct. Customer and its representatives or a third 
Confidential  party appointed by the Customer and reasonably acceptable to Supplier shall be entitled 
(but not obliged) to conduct – also at Supplier’s premises – inspections in order to verify 
Supplier’s compliance with the contractual obligations, in particular with t he Code of 
Conduct. Any such inspection may only be conducted in accordance with the applicable 
data protection law and shall neither unreasonably interfere with Suppliers' business 
activities nor violate any of Suppliers' confidentiality agreements with t hird parties. 
Supplier shall reasonably cooperate in any inspection to be conducted. Supplier shall 
immediately initiate any remedial actions if it detects any violation of the Code of Conduct 
by itself or its subcontractors and shall promptly inform Custo mer of any such violation 
and the remedial action if and to the extent such breach affects the contract.   
14.2    The Supplie r shall provide the necessar y organ izational instructions   
and ta ke measures,  particularl y with regard t othe following  securit y:  
prem ises securit y, packaging and transport,  business  partner, person -  
neland information  -in order to guarantee the securit y in the supply   
chainaccordin gtotherequirement sofrespecti ve internat ionall yrecog -  
nized initiat ives base d on the WCO SAFE Framewor k of Standards   
(e. g.AEO,C-TPAT).TheSupplie rshallprotec tthegood sandservices  
providedto the Customer  or pro videdto third  parties  designated  by the  
Custome ragains tunauthori zedacces sandmanipulat ion.The Supplier   
shallonly deplo y reliable personne lfor those goods and ser vices and   
shallobligateany sub-supp liers to take equi valent securit y measures.   
 
14.3  In add ition to other rights  and remedies  the Customer  may have, the   
Customer  may terminate  the contract  in case  of breach of  the obliga -  
tionsunde rsectio n14bytheSupplier .Howe ver,providedthattheSup-  
plier’s breach of contract  is capab le of remed y, the Customer ’s right to  
terminate  is subject  to the pro viso that s uch breach has not bee nrem-  
edied by the Supplier  within  a reasonable grace  period  set b y the Cus -  
tomer.   
15.      Product Conformit y, Product Related En vironmental  Protection   
including  Substance Declaration,  Dangerous Goods,  Occupa -  
tional  Health  and Safety   
15.1    Shoul dtheSupplie rdeliverproducts ,towhichproduct -relatedstatutory   
andlegalrequirements  apply in view o ftheir placing  on the mar ket and  
further mar keting in the European Economic  Area o r to which  corre -  
sponding  requirements  apply regarding  other countries  notified  by the  
Custome rtotheSupplier ,thenthe Supplie rmust  ensur ecompl ianceof   
theproduct swiththeserequirement satthetimeo ftransfe rofrisk.Fur-  
thermore,  theSupplier  must  ensure that alldocuments  and information   
which are necessar y to pro vide the  proof of conformit y of products  with  
the respecti ve requ irements  can be furnished  immed iately to the Cus -  
tomer  upon request.   
15.2    Should  the Supplier  deliver products,  substances  of which  are set  out  
in the so -called “List of Declarab le Substances”  (www.bomchec k.net/   
supp liers/restr icted-and-declarable -substances -list) applicabl e at  the  
time of the order or wh ich are subject  to statutori ly imposed  substance   
restrictions  and/or informat ion requirements  (e. g. RE ACH, RoHS), the   
Supplier  shalldeclare  such substances  and pro vide informat ion as re-  
queste dinthewebdatabas eBOMchec k(www.BO Mchec k.net) nolater   
thanthedate of first  delivery of products.  With respect  to statutori ly im-  
pose d substanc e restriction s the foregoin g shall only apply to laws   
which are applicable  at the reg istered  seat of the Supplier  or the Cus -  
tomer  or at the place  ofdestination  name dby the Customer.   
15.3    Should  the deli very contain  goods which  –according  to internat ional   
regulation s–areclass ifiedasdangerou sgoods ,theSupplie rwillinform   
the Customer  hereof in  a form  agreed upo nbetween the Supplier  and  
the Customer,  but in  no case later  thanthe dat eof order conf irmation.   
The requirements  concerning  dangerous goods in  section  4.4 and 4.5   
rema in unaffected.   
15.4    The Supplier  is obliged  to compl y with all legalrequirements  regarding   
thehealthandsafet yofthepersonne lemplo yedbytheSupplier .Itmust   
ensure that the health  and safet y of its personne las well as indirect   
subcontractors  emplo yed to perform  the deli veries  and ser vices is pro-  
tected.   
16.      Cybersecurity   
16.1    The  Supplie r  shall  take  appropriat e  organi zational  and  technical   
measures  to ensure the confident iality, authent icity, integrit y and a vail-  
ability of Supplier  Operations  as wel las products  and ser vices. These   
measures  shall be consistent  with good industr y pract ice and shall  in-  
clude an appropriat e informatio n securit y managemen t system con-  
sisten twith standards  such  as ISO/IEC 27001 or  IEC 62443 (to th eex-  
tentapplicable).   
 
16.2  “Supplier  Operat ions” means  all assets , processe s and s ystems  (in-  
cluding information  systems),  data(including  Customer  data),  person -  
nel, and sites,  used or processed  by the Supplier  from time to time  in  
the performance  of this  contract.   
16.3    Should  products  or ser vices contain  software,  firmware,  or chipsets:   
16.3. 1 the Supplie r shall implemen t appropriat e standards , processe s and  
method s to prevent, identif y, evaluat e and repai r any vulnerabilities,   
malicious code ,and securit y incidents  in products and ser vices which   
shall be consistent  with good industr y practice  and standards  such  as  
ISO/IEC 2700 1or IEC 6244 3(to the e xtent applicab le);  
16.3. 2 the Supplier  shall continue  to suppor t and pro vide ser vices to repair,   
update, upgrade and mainta in products  andservices including  the pro-  vision of patches  to theCustomer  remed ying vulnerabilit ies for therea-  
sonable  lifetime ofthe products  and ser vices;   
16.3. 3 the Supplier shall  provide to the  Customer  a billof materials identif ying  
allthird-party software  comp onents  contained  in the products.  Third -  
party software shall  be up -to-date at the t ime of deli very to the Cus -  
tomer;   
16.3. 4 the Supplier  shallgrant to  the Custome r the right,  but the  Customer   
shallnot be obliged,  to test  or have tested  products  for ma licious code   
and vulnerabilities  at any time, and shall  adequatel y support  the Cus -  
tomer;   
16.3. 5 theSupplie rshallprovidethe Custome racontac tforallinformatio nse-  
curity relatedissues  (available during business  hours).   
16.4    The Supplier  shall prompt ly report to the Customer  all relevant infor -  
mation securit y incidents  occurred  orsuspected  and vulnerabilit ies dis-  
coveredinanySupplie rOperat ions,servicesandproducts ,ifandtothe  
extent th eCustomer  is or is likely to be material ly affected.   
16.5    The Supplier  shall take appropriate  measures  to achie ve that its  sub-  
contractors  and supp liers shall, within  a reasonable  time,  be bound by   
obligations  similar tothe pro visions  of this  sectio n16.  
16.6    Upon the Customer ’s request , the Supplier  shallprovide written  evi-  
denc e of its complianc e with this sectio n 16 includin g generall y ac-  
cepted  audit  reports  (e.g.SSAE -16 SOC  2 Type II).  
17.      Export Control  and Foreign  Trade  Data Regulations   
17.1 The Supplier  shall comp ly with all applicable  export contro l, customs   
and foreign  trade regu lations (“Fore ign Trade  Regulati ons”). In particular, the 
Supplier represents and warrants that none of its products nor its services 
provided under the contract contain products and/or services restricted for 
import under the Foreign Trade Regulations applicable to the Customer, 
including but not limited to Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 
2022/263 or 765/2006, each as amended, and import restrictions enforced 
by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.  
The Supplier shall advise th e Customer  in writing  within  two wee ks of 
receipt  of the order - and in  case  of an y changes withou tundue dela y - of any   
information  and data required  by the Customer  to compl y with all For-  
eign Trade  Regulations  in case  of export and import  as wellas re-export, 
includ ing withoutlimitation:  
 
- all applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control 
Classification Number according to the U.S. Commerce Control List (ECCN); 
and 
- the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity 
classification for foreign trade statistics and the HS (Harmonized System) 
coding including the respective tariff basis on which the classification of the 
product has been performed (e.g. EU Combined Nomenclature, TARIC, US 
HTS); and  
- the country of origin (non -preferential origin) as well as the region of origin, 
if applicable for the respective country of origin; proof of origin (e.g. Packing -
List, Delivery Note, BOL, GAI); and  
- upon request of the Customer: preferential statement including Supplier’s 
declaration of preferential origin (in case of European suppliers) or 
preferential certificates (in case of non -European suppliers);  
and 
-upon request of the Customer: evidence of the country of origin of the iron 
and steel inputs used for the processing of the products.  
 
Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage incurred by the 
Customer due to any breach of the obligations according to this section 17.1  
 
17.2 The following clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) the Customer 
supplies any goods or technology to the Supplier in the course of the 
execution of the contract, (ii) such supplied goods or technology are or refer 
to goods listed in the Annexes set out in Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 
833/2014 and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended and (iii) and 
the supply takes place from the EU to a third country except for partner 
countries according to Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 and A rt. 8g 
EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended:  
 
- The Customer hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the Supplier agrees, 
not to re-export and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or 
for use in Russia or Belarus any supplied goods as well as technology (and 
related documentation, regardless of the mode of provision) provided by the 
Customer to the Supplier under  
the contract.  
- The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the contract by written notice 
in the event of a breach by the Supplier of the obligation pursuant to this 
section 17.2. Upon termination, the Supplier shall pay to the Customer all 
costs and damages incurred b y the Customer from such termination. In any 
case, the Supplier shall pay the Customer liquidated damages in the amount 
of 20 % of the contract price.  
- Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove in this section 17.2, the Supplier 
shall indemnify and hold harmless the Customer in full from and against any 
claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public 
authorities or other third parties against the Customer arising out of or 
relating to a breach by the Supplier of the  
obligations under this section 17.2 and the Supplier shall compensate the 
Customer for all losses and expenses incurred resulting thereof.  
 
 
Confidential  18.      Reservation Clause  
The Customer shall not be obligated to fulfillthe contract if such fulfill -  
mentis prevented by any impediments arising out of nationalor inter -  
nationalforeign trade or customs requirements or any embargoes or  
other sanctions.   
19.      Mention as Reference  Customer   
Only uponthe Customer ’s prior written appro val, the Supplier  shall  be  
allowedto mentiontheCustome rasareferenc ecustome rand/o rmake  
referenc etoproduct sorserviceswhichtheSupplie rhasdevelope ddur-  
ing the performance  of an order for the Customer.   
20.      Supplementar yProvisions   
20.1  Insofar as the pro visions  of these Cond itions  of Purchase  do not regu -  
late certain  matters,  relevant statutor y provisions  shallapply.  
20.2    The Supplier  shall beliable  for any expenses and/or damages  incurred   
by the Customer  due t oany breach of these  cond itions,  in particu lar of  
20.3    sections  2, 3, 4,  7, 8, 14, 15, 16 and 17, unless  the Supplier  is not re -  sponsible  for such  breach.   
21.      Place of  Jurisdiction  and Applicable  Law  
21.1    Peru vian / Boli vian / Ecuadorian substanti ve law  shall apply,   
excluding the    provisions  of the United  Nations  Law on the Sale  ofGoods   
of 11t hof April  1980.   
21.2 In the e vent of an y contro versy or discrepanc y that ma y arise  between   
the Pro vider and the Client,  which  cannot be sol ved by direct  dealings   
between them,  the case  may be submitted  to a legal  arbitration   
administered  by [*] and go verned b y its current Arbitration  Regulations.   
At the time  of entr y into force of  the contract  to be signed  between the   
Supplier  and the Client,  the applicable  law will be that of  the countr y of   
issuance  of the purchase order and the arbitration  Center will  be that  of   
each countr y:  
In Peru it  will be the Lima  Chamber  of Commerce   
In Ecuador, it  will be the: Arbitration  and Mediation  Center of the Quito   
Chamber  of Commerce.   
In Boli via, it will be at  the CA INCO Commercia l Arbitration  and   
Conciliation  Center in  Santa Cru z de la Sierra .
 