 
Conditions of Purchase  
Status:  April, 2025  
Confidential  
 
 
ANNEX A  
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES TO COMPLY WITH THE PO 
ISSUED BY SIEMENS ENERGY S.A. COMPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS TO THE 
OCs.  
 
This document is an integral part of the PO above -mentioned, issued by Siemens 
Energy S.A. (hereinafter, “Siemens”), as agreed between the Parties, and shall 
govern the relationship between the Supplier and Siemens Energy S.A. in all 
matters that are not expressly modified or stipulated otherwise in the wording of the 
PO or in the Particular Conditions duly issued by Siemens Energy S.A. or, as 
expressly agreed in written between Siemens Energy S.A. and the Supplier, if 
applicable.  
The rights and obligations stipulated in the Purchase Order, of which this document 
is an integral part, and in the Particular Conditions, if any, are agreed between the 
Parties, considering they are renowned, experienced companies in the market and 
industry of the products and services in question and, thus, fully understand and 
agree on the scope of the contractual relationship that shall be created by means of 
the acceptance of the PO.  
 
1. DEFINITIONS  
1.1.  Assets:  It includes equipment, products, goods and/or materials that, by virtue 
of the PO, the Supplier must deliver to the Buyer or Principal.  
1.2.  Principal:  If any, as stipulated by the PO, it is the end customer with whom 
Siemens has established a contractual relationship for the delivery of Assets and/or 
the performance of services and/or the execution of a work, within which the works 
and/or Assets detailed in the PO by the Supplier are included.  
1.3. Buyer / Siemens: It means Siemens Energy S.A., Unique Tax Registry Number 
217538750011, domiciled at Ciudad de Guayaquil 1306, Montevideo, Uruguay.  
1.4. Complementary Conditions to the PO/Conditions: It means this document that, 
as Annex A, is part of the PO.  
1.5. Particular Conditions: It means the particular or specific conditions, or as 
otherwise named, that precisely and specifically govern the relationship between 
Siemens and the Supplier, provided they are stipulated by mutual agreement and in 
writing in a separate document. If any, they are quoted in the wording of the PO and 
are an integral part thereto.  
1.6.  PO: It means the PO, hereinafter “PO”, mentioned in the title of this document, 
and its Annexes, which are an integral part thereto, and that, together with the 
Particular Conditions, govern the rights and obligations of each Party.  
1.7. Parties: It means the Buyer and the Supplier jointly.  
1.8. Supplier Personnel: To the purpose of this document, it is the personnel 
working for the Supplier, the personnel of Supplier’s eventual sub -contractors, and 
any other person that, in any way, acts, directly or indirectly, for the Supplier during 
the execution of the purpose of the PO.  
1.9. Price: It means the total price stipulated in the PO for the execution of services 
and/or works, and/or the provision of Assets subject matter thereof.  
1.10.  Supplier:  It means the recipient of the PO and, thus, bound to the execution 
of services and/or works, and/or the provision of the Assets subject matter thereof.  
1.11.  Services/Works: It means the tasks and performance mandated by the Buyer 
to the Supplier by means of the PO.  
1.12.  Site: It means the site where the Assets shall be delivered to and/or where 
the services or works shall be executed, subject matter of the PO, which is 
identified therein.  
 
2. ORDER OF PRIORITY  
2.1. These Conditions are part of the PO and govern the relationships between the 
Supplier and Siemens in all matters that are not expressly stipulated in the PO or in 
the Particular Conditions duly issued by Siemens or the Supplier, if any, as quoted 
in the wording of the PO. These Conditions shall prevail over all proposals or 
correspondence previously exchanged between the Parties.  
Except if otherwise were stipulated in the Particular conditions or in any other way 
agreed by the Parties in a separate instrument, the contractual relationship between 
the Parties shall be governed by the documentation in the following order of priority:  
A. The main body of the PO.  
B. The Particular or Specific Conditions or any other document that works as such, 
irrespective of its name or denomination, if any.  
C. The documents and general or particular conditions included in the Bid or Price 
Bid, if Siemens had issued them and the PO was the result of the execution of a 
selection process, if any.  
D. This document “Rights and Obligations of the Parties to Comply with the 
PO/Contracting Complementary Conditions”.  
E. The technical specifications included in the offer, quotation or budget issued by 
the Supplier.  
2.2. The terms and provisions in Supplier’s catalogs, Supplier’s general sale 
conditions, offers, price lists or any other document not expressly accepted by 
Siemens in the PO, or otherwise expressly accepted in writing in a separate 
document shall not apply to this PO.  Once the PO is accepted, the Supplier shall 
be considered to have accepted these Conditions without reservations.  
2.3. In the case of situations unforeseen by the PO and these Conditions, the 
conditions stipulated in the contractual relationship between Siemens and the 
Principal shall apply, which, if existing, shall apply to this document and bear the 
same order of priority as the Contracting Conditions and, secondarily, the 
provisions of Uruguay Commercial Code or Civil Code, as applicable.  
 
3. VALIDITY AND MODIFICATIONS  
The PO and all complementary documentation shall be mandatory for the Parties 
as of the date of acceptance thereof by the Supplier, whether explicitly or implicitly, 
and shall only be deemed modified when so expressly mutually agreed. This PO 
shall be deemed implicitly accepted when it were not expressly rejected within five 
(5) running days as of the reception or if it were executed, or if the Supplier began 
the delivery of Assets or Services subject matter thereof.  
 4. INVOICING AND PAYMENT ADVANCE PAYMENT  
4.1. The Price for the performance subject matter of the PO shall be invoiced 
pursuant to the stipulated in the document “Proveedores_Facturas_ES” attached to 
the PO.  
4.2. Should the PO stipulate the advance payment of a share of the Price as 
advance payment by the Buyer, before making said payment and as a condition 
therefor, the Supplier shall submit an Advance Payment Guarantee, to the full 
satisfaction of the Buyer, for the full amount of said advance payment. Said 
Guarantee shall be returned to the Supplier once the subject matter of the PO were 
executed.  
4.2. The Buyer reserves the right to deduct or compensate any amount owed by the 
Supplier from any invoice issued or to be issued for any provision and/or service 
that the Buyer performs or performed, upon request of the Buyer, and/or any 
amount that may be jointly and severally claimed to Siemens.  
 
5.   ASSIGNMENT AND SUBCONTRACTING ASSIGNMENT OF INVOICES  
5.1. The rights and obligations assumed by the Supplier by virtue of the PO shall 
not be assigned, fully or partially, without the previous written approval by Siemens. 
Even when the assignment were authorized by Siemens, in no case shall the 
assigning Supplier be fully released from the liability in case of non -compliance by 
the assignee, and Siemens shall keep Siemens all actions and rights against the 
assigning Supplier. The Supplier shall only be able to subcontract the Services or 
Assets hired under the PO above without the previous, written approval by 
Siemens. In case of approving sub -contracting, in no case shall Siemens be bound  
vis-à-vis Supplier’s sub -contractor or liable under any concept.  The contractual 
relationship shall be directly concluded between the Supplier and the eventual sub -
contractor, and the termination of the PO for any reason shall imply the automatic 
termination of all eventual sub -contracts, except if Siemens stipulated otherwise. 
Likewise, the Supplier shall remain jointly, severally, and unlimitedly bound as 
regards the PO together with the eventual sub -contractor or assignee vis-à-vis the 
Buyer. The Supplier shall clarify this in all documents binding subcontractors. As a 
condition therefor, without prejudice to other requirements demanded in each case, 
the Supplier shall obtain from the possible subcontractor a note addressed to 
Siemens and signed by subcontractor’s legal representative waiving its right to 
bring any of the direct actions stipulated in Article 1851 of Uruguay Civil Code 
against Siemens and/or the Principal. Likewise, said note shall include 
subcontractor’s acceptance that the contract concluded with the Supplier may be 
assigned to Siemens should the PO with the Supplier be terminated.  
5.2.  The total or partial subcontracting or assignment of the obligations and/or 
rights assumed without Siemens’ previous written authorization shall enable 
Siemens to revoke, annul or render void, totally or partially, the PO or to terminate 
the contractual relationship with the Supplier and to claim the damages it might 
have suffered.  
5.3 The Supplier shall not be able to assign the invoices issued to Siemens under 
the PO to third parties without the express, written approval by Siemens.  
5.4. Siemens shall have the right to assign its contractual positions, debits, credits 
or any obligation and/or right, totally or partially, derived from the contractual 
relationship:  (i) without the previous authorization by or communication to the 
Buyer when the assignment were made to any company of the Siemens Group; or 
(ii) without the previous authorization by the Supplier, but with a previous 
communication thereto, in any other case.  
 
6. PROPERTY OF CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS AND/OR INFORMATION  
6.1. The drawings and technical specifications attached to the PO are the exclusive 
property of the Buyer, and are safeguarded by the Confidentiality clause (Clause 8) 
of these Conditions. They shall be returned once the execution subject matter of the 
PO is fulfilled or terminated for any reason. In case of non -compliance, and until 
they are returned to the Buyer, the Buyer may withhold the payments owed to the 
Supplier without accruing any interest or suffering adjustment.  
6.2. All the information disclosed by the Buyer to the Supplier shall remain the sole 
property of the Buyer, without implying that the disclosure of information to the 
Supplier means the assignment or transference of said property right or the grating 
of any license, except if expressly stipulated by Siemens in written, for the 
information, brand, patents, invention process, know -how, software, hardware, or 
any type of information owed by the Buyer, whether protected or not under 
intellectual property laws.  
6.3. The Supplier guarantees that all the information, elements, brand, patents, 
licenses, software, hardware or any type of information that the Supplier provides 
under the PO are of its exclusive property or have the proper authorization, rights or 
licenses to be used. Otherwise, the Supplier shall be committed to replace the 
information that does not comply with the provisions on this paragraph by another 
one that does not breach any property right by third parties, without prejudice to 
keeping the Buyer harmless from any claim or damage that a third party may raise 
against the Buyer.  
 
7.  ELEMENTS AND MATERIALS PROVIDED BY THE BUYER  
7.1.  The tools, equipment, drawings, standards, samples, guides, molds, models, 
materials, etc. (hereinafter, “Elements”) that the Buyer provides the Supplier shall 
remain the sole property of the Buyer, applying the provisions on Clause 8 
(Confidentiality), and shall not be assigned or delivered under any legal form to any 
third party without Buyer's previous written authorization. As of the delivery to the 
Supplier, the Supplier shall be responsible for safekeeping and maintaining thereof 
in perfect conditions, being liable for damages or loses. Likewise, the Elements 
shall be only used to execute the PO or works hired by Siemens from the Supplier.   
7.2.  The Supplier shall not withhold any of the Elements or any other asset that 
may have been delivered or to be delivered in the future to the Supplier, whether 
under this PO or any other contractual relationship concluded between the Parties.  
 
8. CONFIDENTIALITY  
The Supplier is bound to keep confidentiality on all the information provided by 
Siemens for the execution of the POs issued by Siemens, and to use it  only for the 
execution thereof. Should the transfer of said information to third parties be 
 
Conditions of Purchase  
Status:  April, 2025  
Confidential  
 
necessary, Siemens’ previous authorization shall be required. The Supplier shall be 
liable for any non -compliance with the confidentiality obligations derived hereunder 
by its affiliates, representatives, employees or subcontractors. The breach of 
confidentiality or the misuse of the information shall empower the injured party to 
claim an indemnity.  Should the information be submitted to a competent authority 
upon Siemens’ request or whenever said information were publicly available due to 
causes non -attributable to the receiving party, it shall not be considered a breach to 
confidentiality. The Supplier shall not acquire the property or right of use regarding 
the information provided by Siemens.  
 
9. N/A  
 
10. PLACE OF DELIVERY OR EXECUTION  
The place where the Assets shall be delivered and/or the execution of 
Services/Works shall be performed is that stipulated in the PO, “Place of Delivery”, 
or in the Particular Conditions (“Site”). The times for reception of the Assets is 
stipulated at the bottom of the PO. It is of utmost importance to expressly comply 
with these instructions as the Assets shall not be accepted and/or the 
Services/Works shall not be executed in places other than the Site. The Supplier 
shall be bound to submit the documentation necessary to enter the Site as duly 
requested.  
 
11. PACKING AND TRANSPORT  
11.1. The expenses generated for packing and transportation to the Site shall be 
borne by the Supplier.  
11.2. The Supplier shall be liable for the damages, malfunctions and/or 
degradation, and losses that the Assets may suffer for any reason until the delivery 
thereof is completed, to Buyer’s full satisfaction.  
 
12. DELIVERY OR EXECUTION TERM  
12.1. The delivery date of the Assets and/or the execution of the Services shall be 
that of the reception at the destination/delivery Site, pursuant to Incoterms® 2020, 
previously agreed with the Principal, which shall be stipulated in the applicable PO.  
For deliveries involving installation, commissioning, and/or rectification services, the 
delivery date shall be the date of acceptance by the Principal.  
12.2. The delivery terms for Assets and/or the execution of Services/Works are 
stipulated in the PO or in the Particular Conditions, and shall be strictly complied 
with by the Supplier, except in case of Acts of God or Force Majeure acknowledged 
by the Buyer, pursuant to the procedure stipulated in Clause 14 herein. The delay in 
the delivery term and/or in the total or partial execution shall be automatic, without 
previous requirement for notices through courts or otherwise, and shall be 
considered a fundamental and material breach, punished with the penalties 
stipulated in Clause 13, without prejudice to other legal and contractual 
consequences that may apply, such as the termination of the contractual 
relationship, among others.  
12.3. Should the Supplier not comply with partial terms (if agreed upon in the PO or 
the Particular Conditions) or the full term for delivery or execution, or should the 
Buyer reasonably prove that, due to the status of the execution or advancement of 
the Assets, Services or tasks under the PO, the Supplier shall not comply with the 
agreed term, the Buyer shall be entitled to implement any of the following solutions, 
individually or jointly:  
a) Terminate the PO with the right to an indemnity by the Supplier due to the 
damages it may have suffered.  
b) Procure the hired Assets and/or Services from third parties bearing the Supplier 
the increased costs as well as the damages suffered by Siemens.   
c) In the case of delayed terms, to apply the penalties stipulated in Clause 13. The 
application of penalties shall not prevent the Buyer the possibility to terminate the 
PO at any time, as stipulated in item a) above.  
12.4. The payment of any special bonus for the delivery of Assets and/or the 
execution of Services/Works before the agreed date is not stipulated in the PO.  
12.5. In no case shall an increase of price be accepted for the delivery or execution 
of the subject matter of the PO after the agreed date, even if the delay arose due to 
replacement of packing conditions, damages, etc.  
 
13. PENALTIES  
13.1 In case of non -compliance, the Buyer shall be enabled to apply the Supplier 
any of the obligations stipulated in the PO, detailed in this Clause:  
13.1.1 Due to delays in the compliance with the delivery term of Assets and/or the 
execution of Services/Works, a fine equivalent to two percent (2%) of the total 
amount of the PO per week or fraction greater than three (3) running days between 
the delivery and/or real and total completion, and the delivery terms and/or the 
execution (total or partial) stipulated in the PO.  
13.1.2 Due to the unjustified interruption or suspension of the execution of the 
obligations during three (3) or more consecutive days, a fine equivalent to two 
percent (2%) of the price of the PO per week or fraction greater than three (3) 
running days of interruption or suspension. This penalty shall apply without 
prejudice to that applicable for the possible delay in the delivery and/or execution of 
the provision caused by the suspension.  
13.1.3 In case of a non -compliance with a Service Order issued by the Buyer, a fine 
equivalent to two percent (2%) of the price of the PO shall be applied per each day 
of non -compliance.  
13.2 When the penalties exceed twenty percent (20%) of the Price of the PO, the 
Buyer may choose to straightly terminate, in which case the Supplier shall pay the 
penalties applied up to the termination and comply with the obligations stipulated in 
Clause 21 herein.  
13.3 The Buyer may apply the Supplier fines for other non -compliances, provided 
they are stipulated in PO or the Particular Conditions.  
13.4 Apart from the penalties stipulated herein, the Supplier shall bear the fines 
applied to the Buyer by the Principal due to acts, omissions and/or non -compliance 
attributable to the Supplier. In that case, the Buyer shall only pass the penalties or 
the amount thereof onto the Supplier, who shall settle them within the term imposed 
to the Buyer by the Principal, paying the applicable penalty. Non -compliance with this obligation shall be deemed a fundamental breach, and the Buyer shall bear the 
damages caused, without prejudice to its obligation to reimburse the amount that 
the Buyer would have paid to the Principal plus the applicable interests.  
13.5 The Buyer shall be entitled to deduct or compensate the amounts of the fines 
stipulated in Clause 13 (including those mentioned in 13.4) from: (i) any amount 
owed to the Supplier under any concept; and/or (ii) any guarantee, if granted by the 
Supplier, pursuant to the provisions of the PO.  
13.6 The application of the penalties described in this clause shall not release the 
Supplier from the compliance with the obligation assumed under the PO or the 
liability for the damages that may eventually arise from non -compliances or partial 
or defective compliances.  
 
14. ACT OF GOD AND FORCE MAJEURE  
14.1 Acts of God and Force Majeure shall be physically and/or legally impossible 
facts, as stipulated in Article No. 1549 of Uruguay Civil Code, that affect the 
Supplier and that prevent it from complying with its obligations. The effects of Force 
Majeure are those stipulated in Uruguay Civil Code. Conversely, the cases 
stipulated in Article No. 1343 of Uruguay Civil Code shall not be construed as Acts 
of God and Force Majeure.    
14.2 Should any of the events stipulated in the mentioned regulations occur, the 
Supplier shall communicate the Buyer in writing within seventy -two (72) hours after 
the event occurred, having the Supplier to provide proof of the existence and effects 
thereof. Failure to provide due notice to the Buyer as above -mentioned, the 
Supplier shall lose the right to invoke Force Majeure and to request an extension of 
the delivery or execution term.  
 
15. DELIVERY OF THE ASSETS AND/OR SERVICES - GUARANTEE  
15.1 Delivery of Assets  
15.1.2 The Assets shall not be deemed delivered or its acceptance shall not be 
assumed until the Buyer performed the previous inspection within a reasonable 
period as of the reception on site, and granted or issued the acceptance. Should 
the acceptance by the Principal be necessary, the Assets shall not be deemed 
delivered until having Principal’s acceptance. In case of any disagreement with the 
provision because it does not fit the conditions stipulated in the PO, the Buyer shall 
return it to the Supplier, who shall bear the expenses generated by said return, and 
pay the applicable penalties and damages, apart from issuing and sending the 
Buyer the Credit Note for the returned Assets.  
15.1.3. The verification, acceptance and/or reception of the Assets by Siemens and, 
if applicable, the Principal, shall not release the Supplier from the responsibility of 
complying with quality demands or otherwise stipulated by the applicable 
legislation.  
15.2. Acceptance of the Services  
15.2.1. The Services/Works performed by the Supplier shall only be deemed 
received by the Buyer on the date of issuance of the pertaining provisional 
acceptance certificate, which shall be issued by the Buyer once the Services/Works 
are completed to its full satisfaction.  
15.2.2. If the Services/Works must be accepted by the Principal, the Buyer shall not 
be bound to grant the provisional acceptance certificate therefor until the Principal 
received them to its satisfaction.  
15.2.3. The warranty shall be valid as of the date of the provisional acceptance 
certificate.  
15.3 Warranty for Assets and/or Services  
15.3.1. The warranty term for Assets and/or Services shall be that stipulated in the 
Particular Conditions or the PO. If said documents fail to determine a term, the 
warranty term shall be twelve (12) months as of the delivery and acceptance of the 
Assets and/or the provisional Acceptance of Services/Works, as applicable in each 
case.  
15.3.2. While the warranty is in force, the Supplier shall bear, to Buyer’s 
satisfaction, all repairs and replacements to the Assets and/or Services/Works that 
have defects, flaws or damages of any kind. Once the repair or replacement is 
performed, a new warranty term shall begin for the repaired or replaced part or 
piece for another twelve (12) months.  
 
16. SUPPLIER PERSONNEL  
The Supplier:  
16.1. It must comply with all the obligations stipulated by the labor regulations in 
force in terms of working hours, schedules, salaries, social security, etc. for 
Supplier Personnel.  
16.2. It shall be the only responsible for the compliance with labor, social security, 
pension, hygiene and safety at work, tax, mandatory insurance against accidents at 
work and occupational diseases, and consequences derived from accidents at work 
regulations and obligations as regards Supplier Personnel. It shall demand possible 
sub-contractors to assume the same responsibilities and compliance with said 
legislation.  
16.3. It shall be the only responsible party for any accident that may occur to the 
Supplier Personnel. Securing mandatory insurance policies shall not exempt the 
Supplier from its liability vis-à-vis Siemens.  
16.4. It shall be exclusively responsible to implement all safety regulations and 
standards stipulated by the legislation in force, as well as Buyer and Principal’s 
internal regulations related to these matters as duly notified. It shall take all 
necessary measures to prevent accidents at work for Supplier Personnel, being the 
sole legal responsible and having to comply with all related legal proceedings 
should any accident occur.  
16.5.  The Supplier shall be bound to keep Siemens harmless from any sum that it 
may eventually bear regarding any court and/or out -of-court or administrative 
action, cost, loss, interest and/or damage arising from the claims brought by 
Supplier Personnel or the personnel hired to perform the Service, whether 
individuals, groups of individuals, contractors and/or subcontractors that perform, 
performed or will perform in the future services for the Supplier regarding the 
Services (civil and/or commercial and/or labor and/or social security and/or fiscal 
and/or tax). It is hereby expressed that this indemnity also includes claims for 
accidents at work, professional diseases, and grounded damages (including moral 
 
Conditions of Purchase  
Status:  April, 2025  
Confidential  
 
damage), as regards labor and retirement regulations, as well as ordinary law 
provisions (Civil Code). The Supplier shall have the same indemnity obligation via-
à-vis Siemens if the Banco de Previsión Social (“BPS”, Social Security Office) or 
other social security -related body impose fines, penalties or any other charge on 
Siemens associated to the personnel hired to perform the contracted Service. This 
indemnity obligation shall also apply if the Ministry of Labor and Social Security 
(“MTSS”) imposes penalties on Siemens due to non -compliance with Supplier’s 
labor obligations. This indemnity obligation shall also apply if : i) the BSE 
determines that Siemens has any debt for premiums, sanctions or recoveries; ii) an 
employee of the Supplier, a successor of the employee or any other third party 
claims Siemens liability in a case of accident at work or professional disease.  
16.6.  By virtue of the obligations and responsibilities of the Supplier, the Supplier 
shall bear solely and fully all claims brought by the injured parties, particularly, 
Supplier Personnel, and/or administrative and/or judicial authorities, and/or third 
parties arising from or based on non -compliances or alleged non -compliances with 
Supplier’s obligations. Likewise, the Supplier shall make its best efforts to exclude 
Siemens and/or the Principal from the claim, and to keep Siemens and the Principal 
harmless from any responsibility, penalty, expense, including court and/or 
administrative expenses and fees, or any other expense that Siemens and/or the 
Principal has or had to incur into due to or as a consequence of said claims, and to 
assume all damages that it may cause on Siemens and/or the Principal.  
 
17.     DOCUMENTATION TO BE SUBMITTED BY THE SUPPLIER  
17.1. As a previous condition for the payment of any invoice, the Supplier shall 
submit the Buyer, or the person appointed thereby, the documentation stipulated in 
the particular conditions, for example, among others: List of Supplier Personnel 
assigned to the Services; MTSS’s Labor Control Sheets; BSE’s insurance policies 
for accidents at work and professional diseases detailing personnel, coverage, and 
proof of  payment; BSP, BSE and Tax Bureau valid certificates; Personnel’s salary 
receipts signed by the employees; statements of the work record submitted at the 
BPS; and payments of the applicable social security obligations.   
17.2. Except if the PO stipulated a different domicile, the Supplier shall send every 
month, and within the first 5 days of the following applicable month, the documents 
identified in this Clause 17.  
17.3. The Supplier shall send to Siemens monthly, whenever stipulated in the PO, a 
copy of the documents supporting the legal compliance with t ax, labor, pension, 
and safety at work obligations .  
17.4. Requirements for Companies:  
 
- List of employees assigned to the service including name, surname 
and national ID number (with hires and layoffs during the applicable 
period).  
- Copy of the signed salary slips (of the employees assigned to the 
service).  
- Copy of the proof of payment of Social Security obligations for the 
employees assigned to the service.  
- Proof of securing BSE's Insurance for Accidents at Work and 
Professional Diseases, and proof of payment thereof.  
- Labor Control Sheet with acceptance certificate by the MTSS.  
- Company’s registration form at the BPS and DGI (tax bureau).  
- Monthly work records submitted to the BPS.  
- Copies of sick leave certificates by the employees assigned to the 
service (if applicable).  
- Copies of the requests for maternity allowance by the employees 
assigned to the service (if applicable).  
- Copies of the unemployment insurance forms by the employees 
assigned to the service (if applicable).  
- Copies of the files brought by the BPS related to the social security 
contributions of the employees assigned to the service.   
- Copies of the reports of accidents at work by the employees assigned 
to the service (if applicable).  
- Copies of the files of recovery actions brought by the BSE against the 
company, if any, or letter of the company informing that there are no 
recovery actions or any other undergoing procedure regarding 
accidents at work, professional diseases or sanctions pending 
payment.  
- Copy of the health record of the employees assigned to the service.  
  
17.5. Requirements for Cooperatives  
- Payroll of the personnel assigned to the services related to Siemens 
and the applicable RUT number (Tax ID).  
- Monthly payment slip of the applicable tax category as sole proprietor 
or self -employed worker of each partner.   
- Monthly repayment received per partner (social contribution).  
 
17.6. Valid policy and proof of payment of the Accidents at Work and Professional 
Diseases Insurance Policy. It is hereby expressed that Siemens may, at any time, 
request the original documents by means of an external authorized consulting firm 
in the name of Siemens, and assess if the Supplier has the suitable and efficient 
labor structure to provide the Services and/or Assets in due time and manner, to 
guarantee the quality of the service and a good business relationship.  
17.7.  Requirement of the Construction Industry:  Before the beginning of the 
Services, the Supplier shall submit Siemens the registration certificate at the 
Construction Registry that operates in the BPS, and the National Registry of 
Construction Works and Traceability of the MTSS, if applicable.  
17.8. Bylaws:  If the Supplier were an artificial person, before the beginning of the 
Services or Provisions, it shall submit corporation’s articles of association or 
bylaws, as approved by the National Internal Audit Office, registered at the National 
Registry of Commerce and publication thereof in the Official Gazette, and in any 
other national body as applicable.    
17.9. Sole Proprietorship or Self -employed Workers:  If the Supplier were a sole 
proprietorship or a self -employed worker (“ monotributista ”, in Spanish) it shall submit proof of a valid insurance of accidents at work and professional diseases by 
the BSE, as stipulated by Act 16,074. This obligation shall also apply for the 
personnel that performs services to the cooperative Supplier. It shall also submit:  
- Registration at the DGI/BPS as Sole Proprietorship / Self -employed.  
- Monthly payment slip of the applicable tax category as Sole 
Proprietorship / Self -employed. It shall comply with the stipulations in 
Clause 17 .2. 
- Bi-monthly payment slip of the Income Tax, if applicable.  
- Certificate of a bank account.  
 
17.10  Occupational Health and Safety   
17.10.1 In  terms of Occupational Health and Safety:  
a) The Supplier shall comply with all legislations, regulations and 
provision in force (Acts 16,074, Decrees 406/988, and any 
other future complement or modification thereof).  
b) The Supplier shall define with Siemens or the Principal the 
disposal of any type of waste generated in the site during the 
performance of the Services, before the beginning of the 
Services.  
c) At each visit of Principal’s Occupational Health and Safety 
Manager to the site, said Manager shall record in the site log 
the visit and, once a month, send Siemens’ HR  Occupational 
Health and Safety a signed sheet recording, at least, the tasks 
performed and the duration of each visit.  
d) The Supplier shall make sure that Supplier Personnel wears 
the helmet and/or shirt with the logo of the company they 
represent, as well as all other personal protection equipment. 
It shall also make sure that operators that do not wear or have 
safety boots and helmet are immediately released from the 
work and applied the appropriate sanction.  
In the case of shirts, trousers and eye protection, a joint assessment with the Safety 
at Work Service shall be performed.  
In the case of gloves, there shall be 24 hours for the replacement thereof, if not, 
Siemens shall do it, deducting it from the certification at the end of the month.  
e) All cranes and forklifts shall have a valid technical inspection, 
and the seat thereof shall be equipped with safety belt, roll -
over bar, alarm, reverse lights, first -aid kit, fire extinguisher, 
and the driver shall have the applicable license.  
f) Fire prevention. Extinguishers shall be fully loaded. Should 
any equipment be unloaded equipment, 48 hours will be given 
to reload it, after said period, Siemens shall assume the 
responsibility, deducting it from the certification.  
All fire risk signals shall be observed at all times at the site, consulting in case of 
any doubt as regards the interpretation thereof.  
g) The personnel shall wear tags including name, surname, 
name of the company, blood type, and emergency phone 
number in case of accidents.  
h) Safety Onboarding Course. All Supplier’s Personnel, without 
exception, before performing the Services, shall take the 
onboarding course that shall be given by Siemens or the 
Principal’s safety staff. Without the duly authorized permit, as 
stipulated by the legislation, no person shall enter the worksite 
or workplace. This information shall be requested by the 
Supplier to its subcontractors, and the Supplier shall be 
responsible for subcontractor’s compliance therewith.   
i) Requirement for Medical Services. All personnel without 
exception shall have the pre -employment testing ready for the 
moment when Siemens Medical Service requests it or to be 
submitted when required by Siemens’ clients.  These tests 
also include medical check -ups as per the legislation in force 
according to the activity of each Principal.  
At each visit of Principal’s Occupational Health and Safety Manager to the site, said 
Manager shall record in the site log the visit and, once a month, send Siemens’ HR 
Occupational Health and Safety a signed sheet recording, at least, the tasks 
performed and the duration of each visit.  
j) Forty -eight hours before the execution of the Services, the 
Supplier shall submit to Siemens, Ciudad de Guayaquil 1306, 
the following documents:  
 
- Copy of company’s registration at the BPS.  
- The unique certificate issued by the BPS 
providing evidence that the company is up to 
date with all obligations required by said body.  
- Personnel payroll and new registrations for the 
purpose of the PO. This document must be 
updated with each hire and layoff.  
- Registration certificate of the work at the BPS 
and MTSS.  
- Safety and Hygiene Survey and Plan, if 
applicable, or certificate indicating that they do 
not apply.  
- Personnel’s training certificate, irrespective of 
the hierarchy. This certificate shall include the 
topics dealt with, and the signature of the 
trainee, as stipulated by the legislation in force. 
This also applies for self -employed and 
cooperatives’ workers.  
- Certificate of delivery of Personal Protection 
Equipment signed by the Safety and Hygiene 
Manager. This certificate shall be submitted by 
each of the persons entering the plant or 
 
Conditions of Purchase  
Status:  April, 2025  
Confidential  
 
worksite. This also applies for self -employed and 
cooperatives’ workers.  
- List with updated address and telephone 
numbers of medical centers and ambulance 
services. This also applies for self -employed and 
cooperatives’ workers.  
- Emergency plan indicating how to proceed in 
case of fire and accidents. It shall be suited to 
Siemens’ emergency plan. Said plan shall 
include, at least, telephone numbers and 
healthcare providers in case of accidents or 
diseases.  
- Total list of tools and equipment to be used in 
the performance of the Services. These 
elements shall be controlled, and no element 
shall be authorized for entrance if presenting 
faults that may pose a risk.  
- Certificate of the safety Onboarding Course 
signed in original by Supplier’s legal 
representative and Occupational Health and 
Safety Manager. If applicable, the Supplier shall 
request in advance Principal’s specific 
requirements in order submit the adequate 
documents and, thus, facilitate the entrance to 
the worksite, avoiding all possible shortcomings.  
 
17.11. The Supplier shall be bound to comply with all EHS requirements stipulated 
by the legislation and defined in the document “Special Regulations for 
Collaborating Companies Regarding Environment and Occupational Safety and 
Health” (REECS, in Spanish), and “EHS Protocol and Instructions - COVID -19 
Health Emergency” for this PO/Contract, as well as to comply with all other EHS 
annexes that this PO/Contract and Principal’s EHS regulations apply. The Supplier 
shall also guarantee that its suppliers or sub -contractors also comply with the EHS 
obligations above -mentioned.  
17.12. By accepting the PO, the Supplier acknowledges and declares the 
compliance with the obligations stipulated in Clause 17, which is essential to the 
purposes of the execution of the PO. Therefore, failing to comply with the submittal 
thereof in due time and manner, it may generate great economic damages to 
Siemens. Consequently, Supplier’s non -compliance with the submittal of the 
mentioned documents in due time and manner, or if the documents submitted were 
wrong or unsuited to the applicable legislation, it shall be deemed as a severe fault, 
and Siemens shall be entitled to:  
17.12.1.  Withhold payments owed to the Supplier as stipulated in Clause 20 until 
the situation is remedied.  
17.12.2  Terminate the PO on account of the Supplier, withholding also 
payments owed until determining the prejudices caused by the non -
compliance.  
 
If choosing to withhold payments as stipulated in item 17.12.1 above, and if the 
delay in the delivery of the documents exceeded 20 running days, Siemens shall be 
entitled to terminate the PO on Supplier’s account, as stipulated in item 17.12.2.  
If choosing to withhold payments, once the situation was remedied, the Supplier 
shall bear all related costs and amounts owed, without any adjustment, interest, fee 
and/or penalty.    
   
18. INSURANCES  
18.1. The Supplier shall secure and keep in force until the final completion of the 
Services or the final delivery thereof the following insurance policies with insurance 
companies registered at the Superintendence of Insurance of Uruguay Central 
Bank to Siemens full satisfaction. Should the Supplier fail to provide compliant 
insurance policies, Siemens shall be empowered to secure them, borne by the 
Supplier, or to terminate the PO due to Supplier’s non -compliance.  
18.2. If the Supplier sub -contracts works, the Supplier shall monitor and submit the 
insurance documentation of its sub -contractors, who, in turn, shall comply with the 
same insurance requirements and scopes as the Supplier. A non -compliance by the 
sub-contractor shall be deemed a non -compliance by the Supplier.  
18.3. The policies to be secured are:  
18.3.1. Insurance for Accidents at Work and Professional Diseases (Act 16,074) In 
all cases, the Supplier shall submit BSE’s policy for accidents at work and 
professional diseases, detailing personnel, coverage and proof of payment thereof, 
as well as the certificate of no pending debt issued by said body.        
18.3.3. Personal Accidents Insurance : If the Supplier is self -employed, it shall have 
a Personal Accident insurance with a coverage of, at least, $ 450,000, for death 
and total and partial disability, plus a sub -limit of, at least, $ 30,000 for medical 
assistance and pharmaceuticals, including the works activities and in-itinere . 
Siemens shall be the beneficiary of this insurance policy.  
18.3.4. Civil Liability Insurance: The Supplier shall submit a Civil Liability policy for 
all the works to be performed, including coverage for sudden, unforeseen and 
accidental contamination and/or pollution. It shall also secure a policy over the 
assets under its responsibility, custody and control.  The insured amount shall be in 
accordance with the risks implied for third parties due to the type of works involved; 
said amount shall not be under USD 1,000,000 (one million United Stated Dollars). 
The policy shall include a special clause with the following terms: “If a third party 
claims, directly or indirectly, Siemens due to an accident covered hereunder, 
Siemens shall be considered assured for said purpose. However, if the case is not 
the one above -mentioned, Siemens shall be considered a third party.”  
18.3.5. Automobile Insurance: If the use of vehicles were necessary, at least, a Civil 
Liability insurance policy shall be secured to cover all affected vehicles, including 
civil liability for transported and not transported third parties, and the load being 
transported.   Coverage limits shall be, at least 6,000,000 Pesos for cars pickup 
trucks, and 18,000,000 Pesos for buses, trucks and trailers. It shall include a clause 
to extend the emerging civil liability for the entrance to oil fields with a limit of, at least, 4,000,000 Pesos (if applicable due to the activity to be performed). The policy 
shall include a special clause with the following terms: “The policy shall include 
Siemens as additional insured. However, if the case is not the one above -
mentioned, Siemens shall be considered a third party.”  
18.3.6. Equipment of the Supplier or its Sub -contractors (Civil Liability): If the use of 
equipment property of the Supplier or its authorized sub -contractors were 
necessary (cranes, forklifts, etc.), there shall be minimum a technical insurance for 
all the equipment involved in the contract, covering also Civil Liability. The coverage 
limit for civil liability shall be, at least, the value of the equipment or USD 50,000 
(fifty thousand United Stated Dollars). The policy shall include a special clause in 
favor of the Principal and the sub -contractors with the following terms: “If a third 
party claims, directly or indirectly, Siemens Energy S.A. due to an accident covered 
hereunder, Siemens  Energy S.A. shall be considered assured for said purpose.  
However, if the case is not the one above -mentioned, Siemens  Energy S.A. shall 
be considered a third party.”  
18.5. Irrespective of the aforementioned, regarding all insurance policies to be 
secured by the Supplier, it is stipulated that:   
A) The Supplier shall submit Siemens, or the entity appointed thereby, all 
documentation related to the insurance, the validity thereof, the payment slips 
issued by the insurance companies, and any other documentation deemed 
necessary to cover this item, before the beginning of the works.  
B) All insurance contracts shall include a clause by means of which no reduction, 
cancellation or expiration thereof shall be effective until thirty (30) days have 
passed from the date of notification of said reduction, cancellation or expiration to 
Siemens.  
C) Waiver of subrogation rights. The insurance policies that cover the property of 
the Supplier shall have a waiver of subrogation in favor of Siemens.  
18.6. The policies stipulated in this Clause 18 shall be secured with insurance 
companies authorized to operate in Uruguay (except in the case of accidents at 
work and professional diseases that shall be secured with the BSE).  
 
19. INDEMNITY  
19.1. The Supplier shall be responsible vis-à-vis Siemens in case of any 
administrative or court or out -of-court claim, or any other similar action brought by 
third parties, sub -contractors, unions, judicial entities, mutual societies, 
administrative authorities due to causes attributable to the Supplier, and shall keep 
Siemens fully harmless and compensate all damages Siemens may suffer.  
19.2. The Supplier shall be responsible vis-à-vis Siemens in case of any 
administrative or court or out -of-court claim, or any other similar action brought by 
Supplier’s sub -contractors or personnel by means of which it were demanded, 
claimed, or operated against Siemens for any reason. The Supplier shall be bound 
to keep Siemens fully harmless from the claim and/or action filed against it.  
19.3. The Supplier shall keep Siemens harmless from any non -compliance with 
labor, pension, social security, safety and hygiene at work, tax, work insurance 
regulations as regards its personnel and sub -contractors.  
19.4. The Supplier shall keep Siemens harmless from any claim, lawsuit and/or 
administrative or court or out -of-court action or similar, whether individual or 
collective, arising from non -compliance with national and/or municipal 
environmental regulations, and/or from Buyer’s instructions, resolutions and/or 
statements made in said regard.  
19.5.  The obligations stipulated in Clauses 16 and 19 shall remain valid until the 
statute of limitations operates preventing eventual claims, which implies that the 
Supplier shall be liable vis-à-vis Siemens, even though this PO, for whichever 
reason, has expired.  
19.6. Siemens shall be empowered to withhold payments owed to the Supplier to 
bear the claims stipulated in Clauses 16 and 19, as well as to deduct said amounts 
from any of the guarantees provided by the Supplier.  
19.7. Supplier’s indemnity obligations in favor of Siemens stipulated in Clauses 16 
and 19 of the Conditions and in the documents mentioned in Clauses 2.1 also apply 
in favor of the Principal.  
 
20. WITHHOLDING OF PAYMENTS  
20.1. If for any reason the Supplier owed any amount of money to the Buyer, the 
Buyer, at its sole option, may deduct said amounts from the invoices pending 
payment to the Supplier and pay with them and/or charge the Supplier therefor, at 
Supplier’s sole cost, all amounts that the Buyer shall be bound to pay and that, as a 
consequence of its non -compliance, may be jointly and severally claimed to 
Siemens.  
20.2. Likewise, Siemens shall be empowered to withhold the amounts owed to the 
Supplier when deemed necessary to cover the estimated expenses arising from 
fines or court or out -of-court claims due to non -compliance attributable to the 
Supplier. The right to withhold any amount owed from any credit or invoice to be 
paid to the Supplier is particularly applicable in the case of non -compliance with the 
provisions in Clauses 16 to 19 herein.  
 
 
21. TERMINATION   
21.1. Siemens shall be entitled to terminate or render the PO  invalid, at any time, 
without cause, prior forty five (45) day written notice to the Supplier. It shall be also 
entitled to do so if the Principal, for whichever reason, would terminate the 
contractual relationship with Siemens. In this case, the notice period may be 
shorter, however, never under twenty (20) days. In these cases, Siemens shall pay 
the Supplier all Services effectively performed and Assets delivered until the date 
the termination is enforced, provided they had been accepted by the Buyer and had 
not been paid, as well as all other unavoidable costs and expenses incurred into 
and approved by the Supplier for the Services performed until said date. When 
communicating the decision to terminate or render the PO invalid, Siemens shall 
determine whether the Supplier shall continue performing the Services or delivering 
Assets until the moment in which termination becomes effective.  
21.2. Siemens shall be able to terminate the PO automatically or render it void 
without any prior notices through courts or otherwise, whenever the Supplier:  
 
Conditions of Purchase  
Status:  April, 2025  
Confidential  
 
a) has incurred into non -compliance with any of the obligations arising from the PO 
or these Conditions;  
b) has delayed or suspended the execution of its obligations under the PO due to 
causes attributable to the Supplier for a period longer than sixty (60) running days;  
c) failed to comply with the obligations arising from legal or regulatory provisions, in 
the present or in the future, which govern the subject matter of the PO, or those that 
it would be directly or indirectly bound to comply with, whose omission or 
infringement may generate consequences of any nature to Siemens;  
d) incurred into a material or fundamental non -compliance with the provisions 
herein;  
e) failed to comply with its obligations under any agreement and/or contract in force 
with Siemens and/or its affiliates and/or subsidiaries, provided said breach were not 
remedied under the terms foreseen under the pertaining agreement or contract;  
f) begins a process of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, files for reorganization 
procedures, reaches a general agreement with its creditors, is appointed a trustee 
or receiver for all or part of its assets, or files for or suffers a similar action as a 
consequence of a debt, becomes insolvent; or  
g) transfers, assigns or sub -contracts without prior authorization in written by the 
Buyer, totally or partially, the provisions, obligations or rights arising from the PO.  
If Siemens decided to terminate the PO for any of these reasons, the Supplier shall 
immediately suspend the execution of Services and the manufacture and delivery of 
Assets, except if Siemens states expressly otherwise. In this case, the Supplier 
shall only be entitled to receive the amounts applicable to the Services effectively 
performed and the Assets delivered to the effective date of the termination, and be 
liable for all damages caused to Siemens as a consequence of the termination.  
  
22. RIGHT TO RETAIN THE WORK  
Upon the acceptance of the PO, the Supplier fully, expressly and irrevocably waives 
to the right of retention stipulated in Section 1854 of Uruguay Civil Code. In this 
sense, it is expressly and irrevocably stated that the Supplier waives the right of 
retention regarding all or part of the work, and/or assets of the Buyer, Principal 
and/or any other third party.  
  
23. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY  
23.1.  Notwithstanding the provisions or clauses in this PO, Siemens liability shall 
be exclusively governed by the provisions included in this Clause 23, irrespective of 
any other legal doctrine on which an eventual claim may be based, including 
contractual and non -contractual liability (among others, gross fault or negligence, or 
strict  or risk liability.)  
23.2.  Under no circumstance and in no case shall Siemens be liable by virtue of 
any compensation theory, whether based on contractual or non -contractual liability 
(including fault and strict liability), under no guarantee or otherwise due to: a) 
indirect, consequential, incidental, punitive, special damages; b) loss of production, 
of profit, of income, payment of interests and other financial expenses, loss of data 
and information; c) loss of Supplier’s assets or equipment and systems, loss of use 
of materials; d)  increase of costs of any kind, including, among others, capital or 
fuel costs; e) loss or damages to the property; or f) due to claims or lawsuits 
brought against or by the Supplier due to damages to its clients, users, suppliers, 
contractors or third parties.  
23.3. Under no circumstance shall Siemens’ maximum added and/or accumulated 
liability vis-à-vis the Supplier exceed the equivalent to one hundred percent (100%) 
of the initial price of the PO. If PO’s Particular Conditions stipulate a different liability 
limit, said stipulation shall apply.  
23.4. The stipulations in this Clause are extended to partners, principals, 
shareholders, directors, officers, employees, sub -contractors, suppliers and agents 
of Siemens, its affiliates, subsidiaries, successors or assignees.  
 
24. APPLICABLE LAW AND JURISDICTION  
24.1.  The PO shall be governed and constructed pursuant to the laws of the 
Eastern Republic of Uruguay.  
24.2.  If there were no mechanism to settle disputes stipulated in the documents 
listed in the PO (whether by choosing a particular jurisdiction or any out -of-court 
procedure to settle disputes, for example, mediation and/or arbitration), the 
following procedure to settle disputes shall be mandatory for the parties: In case of 
dispute between the Parties regarding the PO, its existence, validity, qualification, 
construction, scope, compliance or settlement, the Parties shall make their best 
efforts to reach an amicable settlement by means of negotiations by means of staff 
with sufficient hierarchy to settle the matter, which shall not exceed thirty (30) 
business days as of the day of notice of said dispute from one Party to the other. An 
attempt of agreement shall be deemed failed when the term above -mentioned had 
passed or, even when it had not, as soon as one of the Parties so notifies the other 
in writing. If the efforts to reach an agreement failed, the Parties shall be subject to 
the jurisdiction of the courts of Montevideo, waiving to any other forum and 
jurisdiction, constituting special domiciles at those stipulated in the PO.  
 
25. ANTI -CORRUPTION CLAUSE  
25.1 During the development of their activities and the instrumented commercial 
relationship, both Parties are bound to strictly observe the acts and regulations 
related to the works they perform, particularly, anti -corruption and similar applicable 
regulations, such as, among others: Sections 156, 157, 158, 158 and 159 of 
Uruguay Penal Code; Section 29 of Act 17 .060, Decree 30/003 (2003/1/23) and Act 
19.749 in terms of prevention against money laundering and financing terrorism; 
Acts 19.833, 19.823, 19.574, and 19.484 ; and Decrees 379/018 and 136/019; being 
bound to adjust their behavior and that of their dependents to the anti -corruption 
guidelines in force in our country.  
25.2. The Parties state and certify, in particular, that no share of the retribution or 
benefits of the commercial relationship instrumented hereby, either directly or 
indirectly, will be attributed, paid, promised or guaranteed to any public official 
(including any employee of any government agency, or any other acting officially, 
any member of a political party, official government party, or candidate to the public 
office) with the purpose of influencing the actions or obtaining an influence on any 
of them to urge them to perform or to omit any act contrary to their legal behavior, or in order to obtain or retain businesses or any other undue advantage in the 
manner of managing the business.  
25.3. The omission or violation of the provisions included in this Clause shall be 
deemed a gross breach that shall grant the performing party the right to terminate 
for a cause, and the defaulting party shall be liable for the consequences arising 
therefrom under the terms stipulated herein.   
 
26. COMPLEMENTARY CLAUSES  
26.1. Audits: the Supplier shall empower Siemens to perform audits whenever 
requested in order to verify the effective compliance with labor, social security, tax, 
and legal obligations regarding the personnel assigned to the contracted works.  
 
26.2. Export Control and Foreign Trade Data Regulations:  
26.2.1 The Supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, customs, and 
foreign trade regulations (“Foreign Trade Regulations”). In particular, the Supplier 
represents and warrants that none of its products nor its services provided under 
the contract contain products and/or services restricted for import under the Foreign 
Trade Regulations applicable to the Customer, including but not limited to Council 
Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 2022/263 or 765/2006, each as amended, 
and import restrictions enforced by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.  
The Supplier shall advise the Customer in writing within two weeks of receipt of the 
order - and in case of any changes without undue delay - of any information and 
data required by the Customer to comply with all Foreign Trade Regulations in case 
of export and import  as well as re -export, including without limitation:  
- all applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control Classification 
Number according to the U.S. Commerce Control List (ECCN); and  
- the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity classification 
for foreign trade statistics and the HS (Harmonized System) coding including the 
respective tariff basis on which the classification of the product has been performed 
(e.g. EU Combined Nomenclature, TARIC, US HTS); and  
- the country of origin (non -preferential origin) as well as the region of origin, if 
applicable for the respective country of origin; proof of origin (e.g. Packing -List, 
Delivery Note, BOL, GAI); and  
- upon request of the Customer: preferential statement including Supplier’s 
declaration of preferential origin (in case of European suppliers) or preferential 
certificates (in case of non -European suppliers);  
and 
-upon request of the Customer: evidence of the country of origin of the iron and 
steel inputs used for the processing of the products.  
 
Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage incurred by the Customer 
due to any breach of the obligations according to this section 26.2.1  
 
26.2.2 Ban on re -exports to Russia („No -Russia -Clause“)  
 
The following clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) the Customer supplies any 
goods or technology to the Supplier in the course of the execution of the contract, 
(ii) such supplied goods or technology are or refer to goods listed in the Annexes 
set out in Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 
765/2006 as amended and (iii) and the supply takes place from the EU to a third 
country except for partner countries according to Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 
833/2014 and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended:  
 
- The Customer hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the Supplier agrees, not to re -
export and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for use in Russia 
or Belarus any supplied goods as well as technology (and related documentation, 
regardless of the mode of provision) provided by the Customer to the Supplier 
under the contract.  
- The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the contract by written notice in the 
event of a breach by the Supplier of the obligation pursuant to this section 26.2.2. 
Upon termination, the Supplier shall pay to the Customer all costs and damages 
incurred by the Customer from such termination. In any case, the Supplier shall pay 
the Customer liquidated damages in the amount of 20 % of the contract price.  
- Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove in this section 26.2.2, the Supplier shall 
indemnify and hold harmless the Customer in full from and against any claim, 
proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public authorities or 
other third parties against the Customer arising out of or relating to a breach by the 
Supplier of the obligations under this section 26.2.2 and the Supplier shall 
compensate the Customer for all losses and expenses incurred resulting thereof.  
 
26.3.   Delivery of Hazardous Goods and/or Chemical Products: In the case of 
supplying hazardous goods and/or chemical products, the Supplier shall attach a 
Product Safety Sheet (MSDS) that shall be sent to the client to raise awareness on 
the risks implied by the and storage thereof. The containers and packages used 
shall be standardized and comply with all international standards applicable to each 
product. The transport of said goods shall be made by means of transportation 
services authorized for said purpose, pursuant to the national and departmental 
legislation in force, such as Decree 560/003 and the amendments thereto, Decree 
332/06, and the complementary regulations and/or those that replace them in the 
future. These regulations shall not be deemed restrictive or as a limitation to the 
implementation of other existing regulations, present or future, in this regard.  
 
27. ANTI -TRUST  
All actions and agreements between the Parties by means of which a monopoly 
situation may be created or actions that may limit the free competition may be 
carried out, all in agreement with the legislation in force to promote and protect the 
exercise of free competition.  
 
28. MENTIONING THE CLIENT AS A REFERENCE   
Only with the prior written approval of the Client, shall the Supplier be able to 
mention the Client as a reference and/or to make reference to products or services 
that the Supplier had developed during the execution of an order for the Client.  
 
Conditions of Purchase  
Status:  April, 2025  
Confidential  
 
 
29. CYBERSECURITY  
29.1 The Supplier shall take all suitable organizational and technical 
measures to guarantee a degree of confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and 
availability of Supplier’s Operations, products and services. These measures shall 
be compatible with the good industrial practices, and shall include a proper Safety 
Management System for the information, compliant with standards such as ISO/IEC 
27001 or IEC 62443 (as applicable).  
29.2 “Supplier’s Operations” shall mean all assets, processes and systems 
(including IT systems), data (including Client data), personnel and sites regularly 
used or processed by the Supplier, during the execution of this contract.  
29.3 If the products or services include software, firmware or chipsets, the 
Supplier shall be bound to:  
29.3.1  Implement suitable standards, processes and methods in agreement 
with good industrial practices and standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 
(when applicable), in order to avoid, identify, assess and repair any vulnerability, 
malware or security incident in products and services.  
29.3.2  Keep offering and performing repair, improvement, update and 
maintenance services to the Client for products and services, including the 
provision of patches to rectify vulnerabilities during the estimate life of products and 
services.  
29.3.3  Deliver the Client a record of materials identifying all third party -
software components included  in the products. Third party software shall be 
updated at the time of delivery to the Client.  
29.3.4  Grant the Client the right, without implying an obligation, to test or to 
have products tested to handle malware and vulnerabilities at any time, as well as 
to offer the Client proper support.  
29.3.5  Offer the Client support available during business hours should any 
security incident related to the information occur.  
29.4 The Supplier shall immediately communicate the Client without 
exception all important incidents related to information security occurred or 
suspected, and the vulnerabilities discovered in Supplier’s Operations, services, 
and products.  
29.5 The Supplier shall take the necessary measures to make sub -
contractors and Suppliers be bound by obligations similar to the provisions of this 
Clause 16.  
29.6 Upon Client’s request, the Supplier shall submit in written proof of 
compliance with this Clause 16, including the audit reports usually accepted (for 
example, SSAE -16 SOC 2 Type II).  
 
30. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SIEMENS ENERGY SUPPLIERS. SECURITY IN  
THE SUPPLY CHAIN   
30.1  
The Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal  
system(s  In particular, the Supplier will not engage, actively or passively, 
nor directly or indirectly in any form of bribery, in any violation of basic 
human rights of employees or any child labor and the Supplier shall 
comply with the regulations of the Siemens Energy Code of Conduct 
and address these expectations to its own suppliers along its supply 
chain.  Moreover, the Supplier will take responsibility for the health and safety of 
its employees and shall fulfill the applicable minimum wage requirements. By acting 
in accordance with the  applicable environmental laws, the Supplier shall take 
adequate  measures to avoid the deployment of so -called conflict minerals and  
shall create transparency over the origin of raw materials. The Supplier shall 
provide a protected grievance mechanism for its own employees to 
report possible violations of this Code of Conduct and will take 
reasonable measures to make its suppliers comply with the principles of 
this Code of Conduct and to verify this on a risk basis. Supplier shall be 
obliged to duly document its compliance with the  
Code of Conduct. Customer and its representatives or a third party ap - 
pointed by the Customer and reasonably acceptable to Supplier shall  
be entitled (but not obliged) to conduct – also at Supplier’s premises – 
inspections in order to verify Supplier’s compliance with the contractual  
obligations, in particular with the Code of Conduct. Any such inspection  
may only be conducted in accordance with the applicable data protec - 
tion law and shall neither unreasonably interfere with Suppliers' busi - 
ness activities nor violate any of Suppliers' confidentiality agreements  
with third parties. Supplier shall reasonably cooperate in any inspection  
to be conducted. Supplier shall immediately initiate any remedial ac - 
tions if it detects any violation of the Code of Conduct by itself or its  
subcontractors and shall promptly inform Customer of any such viola - 
tion and the remedial action if and to the extent such breach affects the  
contract.  
30.2 The Supplier shall provide the necessary organizational instructions 
and shall take the necessary measures, particularly regarding these types of safety: 
installations, packaging and transportation safety; business partners, personnel and 
information safety in order to guarantee the supply chain, according to the 
requirements of well -known international initiatives within the frame of WCO SAFE 
standards (for example, AEO, C -TPAT). The Supplier shall protect goods and 
services performed to the Client, or third parties appointed by the Client, against 
unauthorized access and manipulation. The Supplier shall have reliable personnel 
to handle these goods and services, and shall bound sub -suppliers to adopt 
equivalent safety measures.  
30.3  
In addition to other rights and remedies the Customer may have, the  
Customer may terminate the contract in case of breach of the obliga - 
tions under section 30 by the Supplier. However, provided that the Sup - 
plier’s breach of contract is capable of remedy, the Customer’s right to  
terminate is subject to the proviso that such breach has not been rem - 
edied by the Supplier within a reasonable grace period set by the Cus - tomer  (no greater than 60 calendar days).  
 
 
31. RIGHTS OF USE  
31.1 The Supplier hereby grants the Client, without additional 
compensation therefor, the following non -exclusive, transferable, perpetual (if it 
were construed that they require a fixed period, it shall be 20 years) and worldwide 
rights:  
31.1.11  Right to use the deliveries and services with the associated 
documentation, to integrate them into other products, and to distribute them, being 
all developments arising from the deliveries and/or services exclusive property of 
the Client.  
31.1.2  Right to install, launch, test and operate the software and the 
associated documentation (hereinafter, jointly, “Software”).  
31.1.3  Right to sub -license the right of use provided for in Sub -clause 31.1.2 
to affiliates, hired third parties, distributors, and/or end clients.  
31.1.4  Right to allow Affiliates and other distributors to sub -license the right 
of use provided for in Sub -clause 31.1.2 to end Clients;  
31.1.5  Right to use the Software to integrate it into other products, to copy 
the Software or allow Affiliates and third parties to use and copy the Software.  
31.1.6  Right to distribute, sell, offer for rent, lease, prepare for download or 
make available for the general public the Software, for example, within the provision 
of application services or otherwise, and to copy the Software to the extent 
necessary, provided the number of licenses used at any time does not exceed the 
number of licenses purchased.  
31.1.7  Right to sub -license the right of use provided for in sub -clause 31.1.2 
to Affiliates, hired third parties and distributors.  
31.2 Additionally to the rights granted in sub -clause 2.1, the Client, 
Affiliates and distributors shall be authorized to allow end clients to transfer or 
assign their pertaining licenses under any title.  
31.3 All sub -licenses granted by the Client shall have the suitable 
protection for Supplier’s intellectual property rights onto the Software. All sub -
licenses shall include any contractual provision used by the Client to protect its own 
intellectual property rights.  
31.4 The Supplier shall inform the Client –maximum at the time of 
confirming the order — if the products and services to be delivered include open 
source components.  
Within the context of this provision, it shall be understood as “open source 
components” any software, hardware or other information that the pertaining 
licensee offers royalty -free to any user, based on a license with the right to modify 
and/or distribute. If the products and services delivered by the Supplier include 
open source components, the Supplier shall comply with all applicable terms of the 
open source license, and shall grant all these rights to the Client. Likewise, it shall 
provide all the information necessary for the Client to comply with the applicable 
license terms. Specifically, the Supplier shall deliver the following to the Client 
immediately after the order is confirmed:  
- An annex of all open source components used, including the applicable license, 
version, a copy of the full text of said license, and a reference to the copyright. Said 
annex shall be clearly structured and include a table of contents.  
- The full source code of the pertaining open source software, including scripts and 
information about the enabling environment, provided the open source conditions 
so require.  
31.5 The Supplier, maximum at the time of confirming the order, shall 
communicate the Client in written if the licenses for the open sources used by the 
Supplier may be subject to a Copyleft Effect, which may affect Client’s products. In 
the context of this provision, it shall be understood as “Copyleft Effect” that the 
provisions of the open source license require that some of Supplier’s products, as 
well as any product derived thereof, be only re -distributed under the terms of the 
open source license, for example, only if the source code is revealed. If any of the 
open source license used by the Supplier were subject to the “Copyleft Effect”, as 
above -mentioned, the Client shall be entitled to cancel the order within two weeks 
as of the reception of this information.  
 
32. DATA PRIVACY  
The Supplier guarantees that the Personal Data related to Siemens personnel 
under this PO shall be treated pursuant to Act 18,331 and the amendments thereto, 
Regulatory Decree 414/009, Act 19,670, Decree 64/020, and the provisions duly 
issued by the Personal Data Regulatory and Controlling Agency.  
 
 
 
33. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. USE OF TRADEMARKS  
33.1. The Supplier shall have no right to use the trademarks and/or business 
names owned by Siemens in any format. The Supplier shall only be able to use 
Siemens’ logos and/or designations in compliance with Siemens’ design, and upon 
a prior written authorization.  
33.2. These Conditions do not grant and/or assign the Supplier any right to use 
logos, isotypes, trademark, and/or any other development owned by Siemens.  
 
 