Page 1 of 6
Conditions of Purchase for Services through External Providers Siemens Energy LLC, UAE
Status: September 24, 2024
Conditions of Purchase
for Services through External Providers
Status: September 24, 2024
The following terms and conditions of purchase shall apply to any purchase of goods and services by Siemens Energy LLC UAE (hereinafter called the "Customer").
Supplier shall be deemed to have full knowledge of the terms and conditions herein and such terms and conditions shall be binding if either the goods and services
referred to herein are delivered to Customer, or if Supplier does not within five days from the date hereof deliver to Customer written objection to said terms and
conditions or any part thereof.
1. Order and Confirmation of Order
1.1 The Customer may cancel the order if the Supplier has not confirmed
acceptance of the order (confirmation) in writing within two weeks of
receipt.
1.2 Any alterations, amendments or additions to the order shall only
become a part of the contract if the Customer accepts such in writing.
In particular, the Customer is bound by the general terms and
conditions of the Supplier only to the extent that such are in
accordance with these Conditions of Purchase or if the Customer
agrees to such in writing. The acceptance of deliveries or services as
well as payments does not constitute such agreement.
1.3  Any provisions in other documents provided by the Supplier (such as
but not limited to specifications, data sheets, technical documentation,
advertising materials, order confirmation and/or shipping documents)
regarding legal terms, liability, restriction of use, restriction of
application and/or restriction of suitability, or any other provision that
changes the provisions of these Conditions of Purchase shall not be
applicable.
2.  Performance of Services, Employment of Staff
2.1  The Supplier shall perform the services with the greatest care and
state-of-the-art of science and technology, in order to enable the best
possible result to be achieved. The Supplier shall incorporate the
Customer’s specifications and inform the Customer promptly if in its
opinion changes to the services which would result in improvements
are possible. In such a case, sections 4.3 and 4.4 shall apply.
2.2  The Supplier shall maintain a quality management system (e.g.
according to DIN EN ISO 9001).
2.3 The Supplier shall perform the services itself or using its own
employees. Orders or parts thereof may not be assigned or
subcontracted to third parties without the prior written consent of the
Customer. If the Supplier fails to obtain such consent, the Customer
shall be entitled to withdraw from the contract in full or in part and to
demand compensation for damages. The Customer is not authorized
to issue any labor related or disciplinary instructions towards the
Supplier and its employees. The Supplier shall produce the required
employment permits for any non-German employees at the request
of the Customer.
2.4  For the provision of work and services, the Supplier shall only use
employees who are not listed in the relevant German, European and
US-American sanctions lists based on foreign trade legislation. These
lists include, but are not limited to, the US Denied Persons List (DPL),
the US Warning List, the US Entity List, the US Specially Designated
Nationals List, the US Specially Designated Terrorists List, the US
Foreign Terrorist Organizations List, the US Specially Designated
Global Terrorists List and the EU's Terrorist List.
2.5  The Supplier shall be free to organize and arrange its work schedule.
The Supplier may only perform the services at the Customer’s
premises where this is essential for the proper fulfillment of the order
and has been agreed in writing beforehand. In this case the Customer
shall grant the Supplier access to the appropriate premises.
2.6  The Supplier has the sole responsibility for compliance with all legal,
regulatory and professional requirements with respect to its
employees. The Supplier shall in particular fulfill the statutory wage
requirements as well as the wage requirements from all applicable
collective bargaining agreements, meet its obligations to pay taxes
and social contributions, meet all legal and industrial law
requirements as well as occupational requirements and shall only use
employees which have the required residence and working permits
and/or EU working permits and have proper social security and
accident insurance. In case of involvement of third parties and/or the
involvement of further third parties by third parties, the Supplier
equally ensures the compliance with these requirements. Uponrequest, the Supplier will also provide the Customer with respective
written proof of compliance with these obligations by the third parties.
2.7  The Supplier shall indemnify and hold harmless the Customer from
and against any claims based on the infringement of obligations
pursuant to this section 2 by the Supplier or third parties. Further
rights of the Customer shall remain unaffected. In particular, an
infringement of an obligation pursuant to this section 2 entitles the
Customer to terminate the contract for material breach.
3.  Software Related Services
3.1 Should the Supplier develop or convert software for the Customer,
the Supplier shall provide to the Customer all related documentation,
the source and object code; at the Customer’s request, the Supplier
shall provide support in the implementation of the application of the
developed/converted software and shall maintain it. Insofar as such
support and maintenance services do not fall under the agreed scope
of the contract, the Customer and the Supplier shall agree on
reasonable remuneration;
3.2 Tthe Supplier shall comply with safe, state-of-the-art software
development methods including secure coding standards, such as,
e.g. OWASP standards;
3.3 The Customer has the right to yearly audit or have audited the
Supplier’s compliance with the provisions of this section 3 and section
22 at the Supplier’s relevant site(s) without cause and, in addition, if
the Customer has a justified suspicion that the Supplier is not in full
compliance with those provisions, in each case upon reasonable prior
notice.
4. Change Requests; Additional Expenses
4.1  The Customer may amend the requirements for the services and
other contractual conditions according to the following Change
Request process.
4.2 The Customer will notify the Supplier in writing or by e-mail of the
requested change (“Change Request”).
4.3 The Supplier shall no later than seven working days after receiving
the Change Request notify the Customer in writing or by e-mail, as to
whether and how the Change Request will affect the agreed schedule,
the remuneration and/or other contractual conditions and submit an
offer for the implementation of the change request. If the
implementation of the Change Request results in changes to the
remuneration or the time schedule, such changes shall be calculated
on the basis of the original calculation base. The Supplier is not
obliged to submit an offer, if an implementation of the Change
Request is unreasonably to be expected from the Supplier.
4.4 If the Customer accepts the offer, the Change request shall form part
of the contract and the contract shall be amended and/or
supplemented through the agreed Change Request e.g. with regard
to the services to be performed, the schedule and the remuneration.
4.5 If in the Supplier’s opinion the Customer’s requirements or other
circumstances attributable to the Customer are leading to increased
time and material expenses and/or are affecting the agreed deadlines
and/or the remuneration or if the Supplier considers changes to the
services necessary or useful, the Supplier shall indicate this to the
Customer promptly in writing or by e-mail. In such a case sections 4.3
and 4.4 shall apply, except that the offer must be submitted together
with the notification.
4.6 Additional expenses shall be reimbursed and any additional
remuneration shall be paid only if such reimbursement or payment
has been agreed expressly in writing in accordance with section 4.4.
With regard to delivery dates, the Supplier can only rely on a
hindrance if timely and proper notification has been made according
to section 4.5.
Page 2 of 6
Conditions of Purchase for Services through External Providers Siemens Energy LLC, UAE
Status: September 24, 2024
5. Duty to Inform
5.1 Unless expressly agreed otherwise, the Supplier shall keep the
Customer informed about the progress of the services carried out on
behalf of the Customer. Upon the Customer`s request, the Supplier
shall allow the Customer access to the documentation of the work and
services.
6. Cooperation between the Contracting Partners
6.1 Each contracting partner shall provide the other with the name of a
competent contact person who is responsible for obtaining decisions
relating to the performance of the services.
6.2 The Customer shall provide the Supplier’s contact person in the
agreed data format, with all texts, documents, information and data
available to the Customer which the Customer considers necessary
for the provision of the services, where these are not otherwise
available to the Supplier. If the Supplier does not consider the
information to be sufficient, it shall advise the Customer to this effect
immediately.
6.3 If it has been agreed that the Supplier is to design training material for
provision of the services, approval of this material must be obtained
from the Customer prior to use.
6.4 The Supplier may only promote, offer, use or sell the results of the
services (see section 13.1) with the explicit written permission of the
Customer.
7. Acceptance of Work Services (Werkleistungen) and Liability for
Defects
7.1 Work services (Werkleistungen) shall be subject to acceptance testing
once they have been completed by the Supplier. Following completion
of acceptance testing, the Customer shall declare acceptance of the
work services in writing or in other appropriate form provided the
relevant work services are free from defects. There shall be no
acceptance in case of substantial defects.
7.2 If services performed by the Supplier turn out to be defective, the
Supplier shall at the Customer’s discretion either remedy these
defects or perform the services again without defects, within a
reasonable period and at the Supplier’s own cost. If the Supplier fails
to remedy the defects or perform the services again without defects
despite being given a reasonable time limit, the Customer may
withdraw from the contract or reduce the remuneration by a
reasonable amount, or remedy the defect or have it remedied at the
Supplier’s cost and demand compensation for damages in lieu of
performance.
7.3 The warranty period for material deficiencies is three years, insofar as
no statutory provisions provide longer periods.
7.4 The warranty period for deficiencies in title is five years, insofar as no
statutory provisions provide longer periods.
7.5 Further or other claims and rights remain unaffected.
8. Travel Costs
8.1 Travel and accommodation costs shall be reimbursed to the Supplier
if the Customer has given its prior consent in writing or by E-mail to
pay the travel costs of the Supplier or its employees. In such cases,
the (net) travel and accommodation costs shall be reimbursed only
upon presentation of copies of the relevant receipts, showing the input
tax amounts contained therein (with the exception of lump sums and
mileage) and after deduction of possible input tax amounts, as follows:
Rail : 2nd class
Air : Economy class
Kilometer Allowance : In accordance with tax authority guidelines
Lump sum overnight : In accordance with tax authority guidelines
Accommodation   or by arrangement with the project
  manager/coordinator, on presentation of
  copies of relevant receipts including higher
  overnight accommodation costs.
8.2 Prior to commencing any travel, the Supplier shall agree the details
with the Customer (such as, for example, work location, dates,
selection of hotel category and class of car if using a hired vehicle or
private car instead of traveling by rail or air), whereby the most
suitable and cost effective form of transport will be chosen, taking into
account the urgency of the matter. Travelling time will not be
reimbursed.9. Remuneration
9.1 As remuneration for the services and the rights of use granted to the
Customer under section 13 below, the Customer shall pay the agreed
amount to the Supplier following correct and timely performance of the
services.
10. Invoices
10.1 Any agreed additional costs (travel and accommodation costs) and
applicable VAT (where the services are subject to VAT legislation)
shall be listed separately in the relevant invoice. The due taxation of
all payments for income-tax purposes and any VAT payments is the
responsibility of the Supplier. Insofar as the services performed by
the Supplier are subject to VAT and have been properly invoiced by
the Supplier, the Customer is prepared to pay the VAT due on the
agreed remuneration. If the reverse-charge process is used for the
services performed by the Supplier, the latter shall present the invoice
without setting out VAT and refer to this fact by adding “Tax liability of
the service recipient / Reverse Charge” to the invoice.
10.2 The order codes and numbers for each individual item shall be shown
on the invoices. Invoices are not payable if these details are not
included. Duplicate invoices shall be marked as such. If hourly
remuneration is agreed, the relevant time sheets countersigned by
the Customer shall be attached to the invoice.
11. Payment
11.1 Payments shall be due and payable not earlier than 120 (one hundred
and twenty days) days net. Where early payment discounts are
applicable, 0.5% payment discount must be realized for each 15 days
decrease in payment terms.
The period for payment shall commence as soon as any delivery or
service is completed and a correctly issued invoice is received.
11.2 Insofar as the Supplier is required to provide material testing, test
records or quality control documents or any other documentation,
such shall be a part of the requirements of the completeness of the
delivery or performance. A discount shall also be allowed if the
Customer sets off or withholds any payments to a reasonable extent
on account of any deficiency.
11.3 Payment does not constitute an acknowledgement that the
corresponding delivery or services were provided in accordance with
the Contract.
12. Delay
12.1 Decisive for the timely performance of the services is whether the
agreed deadlines for performance have been met or, where the
services are subject to acceptance testing, on the successful and
complete acceptance testing of the services by the Customer.
12.2 If a delay in performance of the services or parts thereof or in their
supplementary performance becomes foreseeable, the Customer
shall be notified to this effect immediately and its decision shall be
obtained.
12.3 If the Supplier falls behind schedule with the performance of the
services, the Customer is entitled to demand a penalty for each
working day (or part thereof) of the delay of 0.3 % (zero point three
percent) of the order amount, up to a maximum of 5 % (five percent)
of the order amount.
12.4 If the delay concerns a binding intermediary deadline (contractual
deadline), the basis for the calculation of the penalty shall be the
services which were to be performed until the end of the intermediary
deadline. Penalties for exceeding intermediary deadlines shall be
deducted from the penalty for exceeding the final completion date.
12.5 If there is a delay with regard to a specific, fixed date (Fixtermin), the
Customer is entitled to demand a penalty of 5 % (five percent) of the
respective order amount for this specific date and/or to withdraw from
the contract.
12.6 The penalty does not release the Supplier from its delivery and
service obligations. The penalty may still be claimed if the reservation
of rights is made no later than the date of final payment.
12.7 Further or other claims and rights remain unaffected.
13. Rights of Use
13.1 The Customer shall, whenever created, own all rights, title and
interest in the results of the services (hereinafter called “results”)
regardless of the stage of development reached. The Supplier shall
keep the results for the Customer safe until they are handed over. To
Page 3 of 6
Conditions of Purchase for Services through External Providers Siemens Energy LLC, UAE
Status: September 24, 2024
the extent the results are protected by copyright or other, non-
transferable rights and the Customer cannot – because of the
existence of these rights – become owner of the results, the Supplier
grants to the Customer the exclusive, worldwide, transferable,
sublicensable and unrestricted right, to modify, to have modified, to
use, to have used, to publish, to have published, to distribute, to have
distributed, to utilize or to have utilized the results in their original form
and as extended or modified by the Customer.
13.2 If and to the extent the Customer and/or a third party, that has a
contractual relationship with the Customer, requires the Supplier’s
methods, processes, management tools, concepts, ideas and other
know-how, that the Supplier has developed, created or generated
before or in course of the performance of services (“Background
Know-How”), in order to make use of the results, the Supplier shall
grant the Customer a perpetual, unrestricted, worldwide, royalty free,
non-exclusive, sublicensable, and transferable right to use or have
used such Background Know-How.
13.3 If the results contain inventions, ideas or designs which are
patentable or otherwise eligible for registration, the Customer is
entitled, at its discretion and in its own name, to apply for such
property rights in any countries, to maintain these rights or to abandon
them at any time. If necessary the Supplier shall assist the Customer
with the application; the Supplier shall refrain from any activity that
may impede the application and efficient exploitation of the rights by
the Customer. The property rights incurred as a result of such
applications belong to the Customer.
13.4 The Supplier hereby waives its right to authorship credit with respect
to the results, unless otherwise agreed in the individual case.
13.5 The Supplier undertakes to ensure that the inventions or ideas arising
in the course of the performance of the services are transferred to the
Customer free of further charge or further cost.
13.6 In contracts with its employees, freelancers or third parties, involved
in the provision of the services in accordance with section 2.3 working
on the services, the Supplier shall at all times assure that any and all
rights as described in sections 13.1 and 13.2 are enjoyed by the
Customer exclusively, worldwide and without any time limit, or other
restriction, and also that they are not affected in any way by a
termination of the contract between the Supplier and its employees,
freelancers or third parties. Such provisions shall survive and be valid
after termination of the contract between the Supplier and its
employees, freelancers or third parties. Otherwise, the Supplier shall
compensate the Customer for all resulting damages and expenditure
including but not limited to reasonable costs of legal defense, and
shall indemnify and hold harmless the Customer to this extent against
third-party claims, unless the Supplier is not liable for such damage,
costs or claims.
14. Open Source Software
14.1 The Supplier shall inform the Customer – at the latest at the time the
order is confirmed – whether the products and services to be
delivered contain open source components. Unrestricted Page 3 of 5.
14.2 In the context of this provision “open source components” means any
software, hardware or other information that is provided royalty-free
by the respective licensor to any user on the basis of a license with
the right to modify and/or to distribute (e.g. GNU General Public
License (GPL), the GNU Lesser GPL (LGPL), or the MIT License).
Should the products and services delivered by the Supplier contain
open source components, the Supplier shall comply with all
applicable open source license terms and shall grant all those rights
to the Customer and provide all information which the Customer
needs in order to comply himself with the applicable license terms. In
particular, the Supplier must deliver to the Customer promptly after
the order is confirmed the following: - a schedule of all open source
components used, indicating the relevant license, its version and
including a copy of the complete text of such license and including a
reference to copyright and/or authorship. Such schedule must have
an understandable structure and contain a table of contents; - the
complete source code of the relevant open source software, including
scripts and information regarding its generating environment insofar
as the applicable open source conditions require this.
14.3 The Supplier shall, by the time of order confirmation at the latest,
inform the Customer in writing whether any open source licenses
used by the Supplier might be subject to a Copyleft Effect which could
affect the products of the Customer. In the context of this provision,
“Copyleft Effect“ means that the provisions of the open source license
require that certain of the Supplier’s products, as well as any productsderived from such products, may only be redistributed in accordance
with the terms of the open source license, e.g. only if the source code
is disclosed. In case any open source licenses used by the Supplier
are subject to a “Copyleft Effect” as defined above, then the Customer
is entitled to cancel the order within two weeks of receipt of this
information.
15. Provision of Material, Information
15.1 Material and information provided by the Customer or made for the
Customer remain the property of the Customer and are to be stored,
labeled as property of the Customer and administered separately and
free of charge. Their use is limited to the orders of the Customer only.
The Supplier shall supply replacements in the event of reduction of
value or loss, for which the Supplier is responsible, even in the event
of simple negligence. This also applies to the transfer of allocated
material.
15.2 Any processing or transformation of the material shall take place for
the Customer. The Customer shall immediately become owner of the
new or transformed product. Should this be impossible for legal
reasons, the Customer and the Supplier hereby agree that the
Customer shall be the owner of the new product at all times during
the processing or transformation. The Supplier shall keep the new
product safe for the Customer at no extra cost and in so doing
exercise the duty of care of a merchant.
16. Release of Documents
16.1 The Supplier shall release all documents and other tools, including
copies thereof, that it has received or produced in connection with the
order, immediately after acceptance testing or handing-over of the
results or, if acceptance testing or handing-over is not possible
because of the type of results, after execution of the services.
17. Confidentiality, Data Protection
17.1 The Supplier shall treat as confidential the knowledge and findings,
documents, terms of reference, business processes or other
information that it receives from or about the Customer in the context
of performing the services, as well as the conclusion of the contract
and any results, with regard to third parties other than those involved
in the provision of the services in accordance with section 2.3 – and
shall keep the same confidential beyond the term of the contract – for
as long as and insofar as such information has not become publicly
known by legal means or the Customer has not consented in writing
to its transfer in the individual case. The Supplier shall make
confidential information available only to those employees who need
the information for the fulfillment of their duties and shall ensure that
such employees are also subject to a duty to treat such information
as confidential. The Supplier shall use this information exclusively for
the purpose of performing the services.
17.2 Insofar as the Supplier is granted access to personal data in the
course of providing the services, the Supplier shall comply with the
statutory provisions relating to protection of personal data and data
privacy and shall enable the Customer to keep itself informed that
such provisions are being complied with. The Supplier shall ensure
that personnel (including employees and freelance workers) who are
involved with the processing of personal data committed themselves
to confidentiality.
17.3 Insofar as the Supplier performs services at the premises of the
Customer or has access to the Customer’s IT systems, the policy
“Rules for Business Partners of Siemens Energy” shall also apply
which will in this case be provided to the Supplier. The Supplier’s
access to the Customer’s IT systems requires the explicit prior
consent of the Customer who will decide about the concrete type of
access and is subject to the Supplier`s acceptance of the applicable
rules for the access of third parties.
17.4 The Supplier shall impose an obligation that corresponds to this
section 17 upon those third parties that it involves in the provision of
the services in compliance with section 2.3.
18. Assignment of Claims
Any assignment of any claim is only allowed with the prior written
approval of the Customer.
19. Cancellation, Right of Termination; Consequences of Termination
19.1 The Customer is entitled to cancel an order which entails the
performance of training services in whole or in part until 14 (fourteen)
Page 4 of 6
Conditions of Purchase for Services through External Providers Siemens Energy LLC, UAE
Status: September 24, 2024
days before the scheduled training date without incurring any costs.
If cancellation takes place at a later date, the Supplier is entitled to a
reimbursement of the costs incurred because of such cancellation,
limited in any case to the order amount of the respective cancelled
service.
19.2 The Customer is entitled to terminate the contract by giving four
weeks’ notice to the end of a calendar month.
19.3 If the contract is terminated prematurely according to section 19.2,
the Customer shall pay for the services performed to the point at
which the contract was terminated and the additional costs incurred
directly and verifiably as a result of such termination. The Customer
shall not be liable for any additional claims of the Supplier for
fulfillment or damages due to such termination.
19.4 The right to terminate the contract for cause remains unaffected by
the foregoing. In particular, the Customer may terminate the contract
for cause in case (a) the Supplier is in delay with its delivery or service
and such delay – despite a corresponding reminder by the Customer
- persists for more than two weeks after receipt of such reminder or
in case (b) that adherence to the contract by the Customer cannot
reasonably be expected from the Customer because of a reason
attributable to the Supplier and taking into consideration the
circumstances of the case and both parties interests. This might, in
particular, apply in case of an actual or possible deterioration of the
Supplier`s financial situation thus threatening the due fulfillment of the
Supplier´s obligations under the contract.
19.5 The Customer may also terminate the contract in case insolvency
proceedings or similar proceedings in relation to the assets of the
Supplier are applied for or commenced.
19.6 In case of a termination by the Customer, the Customer may use the
equipment available for the further provision of services, or services
already provided by the Supplier, against reasonable remuneration.
20. Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Security in the Supply Chain
20.1 The Supplier is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal
system(s). In particular, the Supplier will not engage, actively or
passively, nor directly or indirectly in any form of bribery, in any
violation of basic human rights of employees or any child labor and
the Supplier shall comply with the regulations of the Siemens Energy
Code of Conduct and address these expectations to its own suppliers
along its supply chain. Moreover, the Supplier will take responsibility
for the health and safety of its employees and shall fulfill the
applicable minimum wage requirements. By acting in accordance with
the applicable environmental laws, the Supplier shall take adequate
measures to avoid the deployment of so-called conflict minerals and
shall create transparency over the origin of raw materials. The
Supplier shall provide a protected grievance mechanism for its own
employees to report possible violations of this Code of Conduct and
will take reasonable measures to make its suppliers and those third
parties engaged in the course of provision of the services according
to section 2.3 above comply with the principles of this Code of
Conduct and to verify this on a risk basis. Supplier shall be obliged to
duly document its compliance with the Code of Conduct. Customer
and its representatives or a third party appointed by the Customer
and reasonably acceptable to Supplier shall be entitled (but not
obliged) to conduct – also at Supplier’s premises – inspections in
order to verify Supplier’s compliance with the contractual obligations,
in particular with the Code of Conduct. Any such inspection may only
be conducted in accordance with the applicable data protection law
and shall neither unreasonably interfere with Suppliers' business
activities nor violate any of Suppliers' confidentiality agreements with
third parties. Supplier shall reasonably cooperate in any inspection to
be conducted. Supplier shall immediately initiate any remedial actions
if it detects any violation of the Code of Conduct by itself or its
subcontractors and/or and those third parties engaged in the course
of provision of the services according to section 2.3 above and shall
promptly inform Customer of any such violation and the remedial
action if and to the extent such breach affects the contract.
20.2 The Supplier shall provide the necessary organizational instructions
and take measures, particularly with regard to the following security:
premises security, packaging and transport, business partner,
personnel and information - in order to guarantee the security in the
supply chain according to the requirements of respective
internationally recognized initiatives based on the WCO SAFE
Framework of Standards (e. g. AEO, C-TPAT). The Supplier shall
protect the goods and services provided to the Customer or provided
to third parties designated by the Customer against unauthorizedaccess and manipulation. The Supplier shall only deploy reliable
personnel and shall obligate any sub-suppliers to take equivalent
measures and to obligate also their subcontractors accordingly. 20.3
In addition to other rights and remedies the Customer may have, the
Customer may terminate the contract in case of breach of the
obligations under section 20 by the Supplier. However, provided that
Supplier’s breach of contract is capable of remedy, the Customer’s
right to terminate is subject to the proviso that such breach has not
been remedied by the Supplier within a reasonable grace period set
by the Customer.
21. Product Conformity, Product Related Environmental Protection
including Substance Declaration, Dangerous Goods, Occupational
Health and Safety
21.1 Should the Supplier deliver products, to which product-related
statutory and legal requirements apply in view of their placing on the
market and further marketing in the European Economic Area or to
which corresponding requirements apply regarding other countries
notified by the Customer to the Supplier, then the Supplier must
ensure compliance of the products with these requirements at the
time of transfer of risk. Furthermore, the Supplier must ensure that all
documents and information which are necessary to provide the proof
of conformity of products with the respective requirements can be
furnished immediately to the Customer upon request.
21.2 Should the Supplier deliver products, substances of which are set out
in the “List of Declarable Substances” ( www.bomcheck.net/suppliers/
restricted-and-declarable-substances-list ) applicable at the time of
the order or which are subject to statutorily-imposed substance
restrictions and/ or information requirements (e. g. REACH, RoHS),
the Supplier shall declare such substances and provide information
as requested in the web database BOMcheck ( www.BOMcheck.net )
no later than the date of first delivery of products. With respect to
statutorily imposed substance restrictions the foregoing shall only
apply to laws which are applicable at the registered seat of the
Supplier or the Customer or at the designated place of delivery
requested by the Customer.
21.3 Should the delivery contain goods which – according to international
regulations – are classified as dangerous goods, the Supplier will
inform the Customer hereof in a form agreed upon between the
Supplier and the Customer, but in no case later than the date of order
confirmation.
21.4 The Supplier is obliged to comply with all legal requirements
regarding the health and safety of the personnel employed by the
Supplier. It must ensure that the health and safety of its personnel as
well as indirect subcontractors employed to perform the deliveries
and services is protected.
21.5 The Supplier shall provide all necessary data and information in
accordance with the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism
(CBAM) statutory regulations in a timely manner upon request of
Customer in order to meet the Customer´s external obligations.
CBAM latest developments as well as guidance can be accessed on
the official Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism Website; currently
available under the following link: Carbon Border Adjustment
Mechanism (europa.eu).
22. Cybersecurity
22.1 The Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and technical
measures to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and
availability of Supplier Operations as well as products and services.
These measures shall be consistent with good industry practice and
shall include an appropriate information security management system
consistent with standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the
extent applicable).
22.2 “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes and systems
(including information systems), data (including Customer data),
personnel, and sites, used or processed by the Supplier from time to
time in the performance of this contract.
22.3 Should products or services contain software, firmware, or chipsets:
22.3.1  the Supplier shall implement appropriate standards, processes
and methods to prevent, identify, evaluate and repair any
vulnerabilities, malicious code, and security incidents in
products and services which shall be consistent with good
industry practice and standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC
62443 (to the extent applicable);
22.3.2  the Supplier shall continue to support and provide services to
Page 5 of 6
Conditions of Purchase for Services through External Providers Siemens Energy LLC, UAE
Status: September 24, 2024
repair, update, upgrade and maintain products and services
including the provision of patches to the Customer remedying
vulnerabilities for the reasonable lifetime of the products and
services;
22.3.3  the Supplier shall provide to the Customer a bill of materials
identifying all third-party software components contained in the
products. Third-party software shall be up-to-date at the time of
delivery to the Customer;
22.3.4 the Supplier shall grant to the Customer the right, but the
Customer shall not be obliged, to test or have tested products
for malicious code and vulnerabilities at any time, and shall
adequately support the Customer;
22.3.5 the Supplier shall provide the Customer a contact for all
information security related issues (available during business
hours).
22.4 The Supplier shall promptly report to the Customer all relevant
information security incidents occurred or suspected and vulnerabilities
discovered in any Supplier Operations, services and products, if and to
the extent the Customer is or is likely to be materially affected.
22.5 The Supplier shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its
subcontractors and suppliers shall, within a reasonable time, be bound
by obligations similar to the provisions of this section 22.
22.6 Upon the Customer’s request, The Supplier shall provide written
evidence of its compliance with this section 22 including generally
accepted audit reports (e.g., SSAE-16 SOC 2 Type II.
23. Export Control and Foreign Trade Data Regulations
23.1 The Supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, customs
and foreign trade regulations (“Foreign Trade Regulations”). In
particular, the Supplier represents and warrants that none of its
products nor its services provided under the contract contain products
and/or services restricted for import under the Foreign Trade
Regulations applicable to the Customer, including but not limited to
Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 2022/263 or 765/2006,
each as amended, and import restrictions enforced by the U.S. Customs
and Border Protection. The Supplier shall advise the Customer in writing
within two weeks of receipt of the order – and in case of any changes
without undue delay – of any information and data required by the
Customer to comply with all Foreign Trade Regulations in case of export
and import as well as re-export, including without limitation:
-  All applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control
Classification Number according to the U.S. Commerce Control List
(ECCN); and
- the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity
classification for foreign trade statistics and the HS (Harmonized
System) coding including the respective tariff basis on which the
classification of the product has been performed (e.g. EU Combined
Nomenclature, TARIC, US HTS); and
- the country of origin (non-preferential origin) as well as the region of
origin, if applicable for the respective country of origin; proof of origin
(e.g. Packing-List, Delivery Note, BOL, GAI); and
- upon request of Buyer: preferential statement including Supplier’s
declaration of preferential origin (in case of European suppliers) or
preferential certificates (in case of non-European suppliers); and
- upon request of Buyer: evidence of the country of origin of the iron
and steel inputs used for the processing of the products.
Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage incurred by
Buyer due to any breach of the obligations according to this section
23.1.
23.2 Ban on re-exports to Russia (“No-Russia-Clause”) The following clause
shall apply if and to the extent (i) Siemens Energy supplies any goods
or technology to the Supplier in the course of the execution of the
contract, (ii) such supplied goods or technology are or refer to goods
listed in the Annexes set out in Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014
and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended and (iii) and the
supply takes place from the EU to a third country except for partner
countries according to Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art.
8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended: - The Customer hereby
prohibits to the Supplier, and the Supplier agrees, not to re-export
and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for use in
Russia or Belarus any supplied goods as well as technology (and
related documentation, regardless of the mode of provision) provided
by the Customer to the Supplier under the contract. - The Customer
shall be entitled to terminate the contract by written notice in the event
of a breach by the Supplier of the obligation pursuant to this section
23.2. Upon termination, the Supplier shall pay to the Customer all costsand damages incurred by the Customer from such termination. In any
case, the Supplier shall pay the Customer liquidated damages in the
amount of 20 % of the contract price. - Notwithstanding the provision
hereinabove in this section 23.2, the Supplier shall indemnify and hold
harmless the Customer in full from and against any claim, proceeding,
action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public authorities or
other third parties against the Customer arising out of or relating to a
breach by the Supplier of the obligations under this section 23.2 and the
Supplier shall compensate the Customer for all losses and expenses
incurred resulting thereof.
24. Reservation Clause
24.1 The Customer shall not be obligated to fulfill the contract if such
fulfillment is prevented by any impediments arising out of national or
international foreign trade or customs requirements or any embargoes
or other sanctions.
25. Mention as Reference Customer
25.1 Only upon the Customer’s prior written approval, the Supplier shall be
allowed to mention the Customer as a reference customer and/or make
reference to products or services which the Supplier has developed
during the performance of an order for the Customer and/or to make
press releases or other public declarations in connection with the order.
26. Supplementary Provisions
26.1 Insofar as the provisions of these Conditions of Purchase do not
regulate certain matters, relevant statutory provisions shall apply.
26.2 The Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damages incurred
by the Customer due to any breach of these conditions, in particular of
sections 7, 12, 13, 14, 20, 21, 22 and 23, unless the Supplier is not
responsible for such breach.
27. In-Country Value (ICV) Certification
27.1 The Supplier is expected to provide the Customer with a valid ICV
certificate issued by an official certifying body (“ICV Certificate”). It is
understood that a low ICV Certification score or no score shall be
considered a disadvantage, while treatment of the Suppliers ICV
scores during the evaluation process is at the sole discretion of the
Customer.
27.2 The Supplier shall take every effort to keep the Customer updated
with changes to their ICV Certificate.
27.3 The ICV score of the Supplier is an integral element of the Customer’s
ongoing evaluation process affecting selection of the Supplier for all
business opportunities.
28. Place of Jurisdiction, Arbitration and Applicable Law
28.1 This Agreement shall be governed by the substantive law of the UAE
without regard to that jurisdiction’s conflicts of law provisions. The
application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods of April 11, 1980 shall be excluded.
28.2  If a dispute arises in connection with this Agreement, a related
agreement or any Purchase Order, the responsible representatives
of the parties to the dispute shall attempt, in fair dealing and good
faith, to settle such dispute. Each party shall be entitled to terminate
these negotiations by written notification to the other party at any time.
28.3 Any dispute, difference, controversy or claim arising out of or in
connection with this contract, including (but not limited to) any
question regarding its existence, validity, interpretation, performance,
discharge and applicable remedies, shall be subject to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the Courts of the Dubai International Financial Centre
(the DIFC Courts).
29. Severability
Any individual provision of this contract, which is or becomes invalid,
illegal or unenforceable under any law of any jurisdiction which affects
the performance of the contract or any omission to provide for any
subject matter shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of
this contract. In such cases, any invalid, illegal or unenforceable
provision(s) shall be severed from the remainder of the contract and the
parties shall seek effective solutions as closely as possible
approximating (in economic effect) to the invalid, illegal or
unenforceable provisions.
Page 6 of 6
Conditions of Purchase for Services through External Providers Siemens Energy LLC, UAE
Status: September 24, 2024
30. Special Conditions
30.1 Invoice Submission Process
- All invoices to submitted to supplierme.in@siemens.com for payment
processes.
- Only pdf file format is accepted
- One Invoice in a PDF is accepted, avoid scanning multiple invoices in
one PDF file
- Do not send invoice copies in Zip file
- E-mail size should not exceed 10 MB
- Keep lesser/most relevant pages in the PDF & recommend to limit the
number of pages per invoice to maximum 30
- Avoid attaching non-PDF files, e-mails, text file, word or excel file
- Ensure that the invoices are VAT compliant
- Avoid Handwritten corrections
- Invoices are addressed with the correct name of the purchasing party,
i.e. as per the PO issued
- Invoices should have valid Siemens Energy Purchase Order number
- Payment terms will be calculated based the invoice submission date
- Invoices in other languages than English will be rejected.
- Invoices should not be password-protected.
30.2  Status of Invoices Submitted
- You can check the status of your invoices online in iPEP portal after 4
working days from submission.
- Suppliers link : https://ipep.platform.siemens.cloud/
- All invoices & payment related queries must be addressed ONLY
through the online tool iPEP (Integrated Partner Engagement Platform)
- Write e-mail to ap.mea.in@siemens.com for login credentials
- Please send your SOA via e-mail to ap.mea.in@siemens.com