 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                March  2025 edition  
 
 
 
 
Letter of  
to 
Our reference  Siemens Energy d.o.o.  
Management Board: Boris Miljavac, Managing director;  
Laura Musić, Financial director  
  
Registered office: Slavonska avenija 1 A, Zagreb; IBAN: Zagrebačka banka d.d. HR7523600001102819568.  
The company is entered in the court register of the Commercial Court in Zagreb under no. 081265238.  
Capital stock: EUR 2.700.000,00. Company number 5152984, VAT ID HR18960883235 , Personal Identification Number: 18960883235  
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                           Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
Page 1 of 17 
 
General Conditions for the Supply  of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy  d.o.o., PIN ( OIB) 18960883235 , Slavonska avenija 1A , 10000 Zagreb, Croatia  
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
 
I. General Provisions  ................................ ....................  1 
II. Prices and payment conditions  ................................  2 
III. Retention of title  ................................ .........................  3 
IV. Deadlines for Supplies and delay  .............................  4 
V. Transfer of risks  ................................ .........................  5 
VI. Installation and fitting  ................................ ................  6 
VII. Takeover  ................................ ................................ ..... 7 
VIII. Liability for defects and guarantee  ...........................  7 
IX. Electronic Commerce  ................................ ................  8 
X. Special Terms & Conditions for Cyber Offers  ..........  8 
XI. Intellectual property rights and copyright  ..............  10 
XII. Impossibility of performance, adaptation of the 
agreement and termination  ................................ ..... 11 
XIII. Other liabilities  ................................ .........................  13 
XIV. Confidentiality  ................................ ..........................  13 
XV. Court j urisdiction and applicable law  .....................  14 
XVI. Compliance with Export Control Regulations  ........  14 
XVII.  Anti-Corruption Clause  ................................ ............  15 
XVIII.  Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment  ...........  16 
XIX. EHS, Handling with Azbestos and other dangerous 
materials  ................................ ................................ ... 16 
XX. Final provisions  ................................ .......................  17 
 
I. General Provisions  
 
1. These General Conditions for the Supply for 
Products and Services  (hereinafter: General 
Conditions) shall be applied to all legal transactions  
concluded between the  legal entity Siemens Energy  
d.o.o. from Zagreb , Slavonska avenija  1A (hereinafter : 
SIEMENS  ENERGY ) and the other contracting  Party 
(hereinafter : the ORDERER ), in relation to the supply  
of products and rendering of services (hereinafter: the 
Supplies ) by SIEMENS ENERGY . 
 
These General Conditions are exclusively  applied  to 
relations between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the 
ORDERER , unless  certain alterations and / or non-application of certain provisio ns of these General 
Conditions are separately agreed and determined in 
writing. In ca se when such provisions of the 
agreement and / or other arrangements are contrary 
to the provisions of these General Conditions , the 
provisions of such a greements and / or other 
arrangements stipulated in a written form shall be 
applicable .  
 
The a greement between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the 
ORDERER shall be considered conclud ed also in 
case when SIEMENS ENERGY , upon receipt of the 
order, send s a written confirmation of s uch order or  
supplies  the product and/or render s the service to the 
ORDERER.  
 
The agreement conclud ed between SIEMENS 
ENERGY  and the ORDERER , or the written 
confirmation of the Order shall determine the scope of  
the Supplies .  
 
Offers sent by SIEMENS ENERGY  are not binding , 
unless  determined otherwise in the relevant SIEMENS 
ENERGY  offer i.e. in the agreement conclud ed 
between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER . 
 
Data stated in catalogues, prospects and similar 
publications, as well as other written or oral 
statements, are of informativ e nature and are  binding  
only if so explicitly  stated in the confirmation of the 
order by SIEMENS ENERGY , i.e. in the a greement 
betwe en SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER, as 
the technical documentation of a specific product.   
 
SIEMENS ENERGY  shall be authorized to perform 
partial Supplies  with respect to the entire order if such 
partial delivery is possible and executable.  
 
The ORDERER is authorized to request partial 
Supplies  only with a prior written approval of 
SIEMENS ENERGY , which approval shall not be 
unreasonably withheld.  
 
The ORDERER is not authorized, without prior written 
approval of SIEMENS ENERGY , to transfer its rights 
and obligat ions from the agreement conclud ed 
between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER to a 
third party. In case of transfer of ORDERER ’s rights 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 2 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
and obligations from the agreement concluded 
between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER to a 
third party without the prior written approval of 
SIEMENS ENERGY , such transfer will not cause any 
legal effect. In case of transfer by the ORDERER ’s 
rights and obligations from the agreement concluded 
between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER to a 
third party with the prior written approval of SIEMENS 
ENERGY , the ORDERER and the third party, to which 
the rights and obligations from the respective 
agreement were transferre d, shall jointly be 
responsible to SIEMENS ENERGY  for the fulfillment 
of transferred rights and obligations.  
 
SIEMENS ENERGY  may, in its sole discretion, assign 
the Contract or any part thereof or any of its 
contractual rights or obligations to any affiliate 
company of SIEMENS ENERGY . Such assignment 
shall be in effect after SIEMENS ENERGY  informs the 
ORDERER about the assignment by a written 
notification. The ORDERER hereby gives its approval 
of such assignments of the Contract or any contractual 
rights or obligations in advance.  
 
2. The ORDERER’s  General Condition s of business 
and procurement  shall be applicable only if explicitly 
confirmed by SIEMENS ENERGY  in writing .  
 
The ORDERER is obliged to timely inform SIEMENS 
ENERGY  on all changes, including, but not limited to 
pre-bankruptcy, bankruptcy, liquidation proceedings, 
corporate changes, etc., no matter whether these 
changes could  affect  the fulfillment o f agreed 
obligations.  
 
3. Unless  otherwise  explicitly stated  in the 
agreement, the ORDER ER does not obtain ownership 
rights and / or copyrights , intellectual and/or industrial 
ownership  rights  on drawings, e valuation  of expenses 
and on other  offer and project documentation , or other 
documents provided in connection with the Supplies  
(hereinafter: the Documentati on) which is, as a part of 
the o ffer and  / or as the integral part of the Agreement, 
delivered to the  ORDERER by SIEMENS ENERGY . 
Delivered D ocumentation cannot be copied without 
the prior approval of SIEMENS ENERGY . SIEMENS 
ENERGY  retains all  of the  intellectual and industrial 
ownership rights and copyrights which refer to the 
Documentation, and all software, hardware, know 
how, and other things provided with or as a part of the 
Supplies,  all of which shall remain the exclusive 
property of SIEMENS ENERGY,  except otherwise 
expressly agreed. The ORDERER  shall not reverse 
engineer, decompile, or reproduce the S upplies, 
Documentation   or parts thereof and shall ensure that 
third parties will not reverse engineer, decompile or 
reproduce the Works or parts thereof . 
 
Third parties may  have access to the Documentation 
only with the  prior approval of SIEMENS ENERGY , and if such approval is not granted, i.e. if the 
ORDERER r ealizes the Order in some other place, the 
Documentation must be returned , upon  request of 
SIEMENS ENERGY , without any delay.  
 
In any case, the documentation of the ORDERER can 
be made available to all affiliate d companies of 
SIEMENS ENERGY  and to third parties to whom 
SIEMENS ENERGY  transferred the fulfillment of 
agreed obligation.  
 
II. Prices and payment conditions  
 
1. Unless  otherwise  expressly stated  in the 
agreement, the prices are considered to be FCO  
factory i.e. warehouse, wh ich does not include 
wrapping and packaging, loading and transportation  
expenses .  
 
Value added tax is not includ ed in the price, which tax 
shall be calculated by SIEMENS ENERGY  pursuant to 
currently valid Value Added Tax Act and other 
respective laws and regulations.  
 
2. If SIEMENS ENERGY , as a part of its contractual 
obligations,  assumed  the obligation of installation and 
fitting  of the subject of Supplies , and unless stated  
differently in the a greement, the ORDERER is hereby 
obliged, together with the agreed fee, to bear all 
necessary additional expenses, including, but not 
limited to, travel expenses, transport expenses of 
necessary tools, personal luggage and field bonus es 
for workers.   
 
If charges, taxes and other fees are charged in relation 
to the Supplies , they shall be borne by  the ORDERER. 
If the Supplies  were agreed together with the transport 
insurance , then the relevant  insurance shall be 
charged separately,  whereby such Supplies  do not 
include unloading and transfer.  
 
In case of  the ORDERER’s  order of products and  / or 
services which is no t in accordance with the entir e 
offer suppli ed by SIEMENS ENERGY , SIEMENS 
ENERGY  withholds the right to adequately a djust the 
price.  
 
Prices stated  in the offer are based on the expenses 
in the moment of the first offer of products and  / or 
services. If such expenses increased until the moment 
of Supplies  (including, for example, due to  new or 
increased tariffs or customs) , SIEMENS ENERGY  
withholds the right to adequately adjust the prices in 
accordance with such  change.  
 
3. Payment should be made to  the account of 
SIEMENS ENERGY  at the commercial bank 
determined  by SIEMENS ENERGY , pursuant to 
agreed terms  of payment  upon  30 (thirty) days from 
the issuance of invoice, and in the full amount of the 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 3 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
invoice. In case of delay of the ORDERER with the 
payment or with other fulfillment of obligations from 
this or other mutual business transaction s, SIEMENS 
ENERGY  has the right, w ithout affecting any of its 
other rights, to postpone the fulfillment of its 
obligations  out of this or other mutual  business  
relationships  until t he settlement of respective 
payment and / or other obligations, and to use the right 
to adequate ly postpone  the Supplies , and to charge to 
the ORDERER additionally calculated legal inter est 
pursuant to the valid laws and regulations.  
 
Payment shall be considered made on the day when 
the due amount arrives to the account of SIEMENS 
ENERGY .  
 
At partial calculations and / or installment payments for 
the Supplies , the respective partial calculations  and / 
or installment payments shall become due upon  30 
(thirty) days from the issuance of  each invoice.  
 
SIEMENS ENERGY ’s invoices , issued on the basis of 
subsequent  deliveries, which exceed the originally 
agreed Supplies , shall become due upon 30 (thirty) 
days from the issuance of  each invoice regardless on 
the conditions of payment agreed for the main 
Supplies .  
 
5. The ORDERER is not authorized, due to rights 
from commercial  guarantees or other counterclaims, 
to withhold (not execute ) and / or set-off payment s of 
SIEMENS ENERGY ’s invoices .  
 
SIEMENS ENERGY  is authorized on the basis of its 
claims, to withhold (not execute) and / or set -off 
payments of the ORDERERS’ invoices arisi ng out of 
this or other mutual business  relationships.  
 
In any case, SIEMENS ENERGY  has the right to 
calculate expenses incurred prior to court  
proceedings , especially expenses of the sending 
notices of delay  and attorney services.  
 
Unless otherwise expressly determined  in the 
agreement, granted discounts  on the price and / or 
bonuses are conditioned by timely settlement of the 
full amount and  by fulfillment of  other contracted 
obligations of  the ORDERER.  
 
6. For the purpose of securi ng the  payment of agreed 
price, the ORDERER is obliged to deliver to SIEMENS 
ENERGY  the payment instruments pursuant to the 
referenced priorities:  
 
1. bank  guarantee (upon first call, 
irrevocable , unconditional, issued by first 
class  bank institution , accepted by 
SIEMENS ENERGY ); or if this is not 
possible and if SIEMENS ENERGY  
accepts ,  
2. blank debenture (signed and certified by 
the notary public for the ORDERER ); or  
 
3. blank bill of exchange (without protest) .  
 
7. In case of total advance payment of the Supplies  
by the ORDERER, the application of paragraph 6 of 
this Article is excluded.  
 
8. SIEMENS ENERGY may at any time offer a 
replacement guarantee or other instruments of 
securing the obligation  (hereinafter: the “replacement 
guarantee”)  for the replacement of existing guarantee 
(e.g. for the a dvance payment , performance  and/or 
warranty guarantee ), substantially in the form of the 
existing guarantee, to be issued by another guarantor. 
If such a replacement guarantee provides similar or 
better security to ensure the performance of the 
obligations that are secured by the existing guarantee 
(having regard to the creditworthiness of the 
guarantor, place of issuance and the terms of the 
guarantee) the ORDERER  shall accept such 
replacement guarantee in exchange for the existing 
guarantee already delivered by SIEMENS ENERGY . 
 
Upon the delivery of the replacement guarantee to the 
ORDERER , the ORDERER undertakes not to , and 
shall have no right to , make any claim s under the 
existing , previously delivered , guarantee anymore. 
The ORDERER  undertakes to return the existing 
guarantee to SIEMENS ENERGY for release  and to 
enable SIEMENS ENERGY to release the obligations 
under existing guarantees,  immediately following the 
delivery of the replacement guarantee , and if the 
return is not possible or the following shall be 
necessary together with the return  of the existing 
guarantee , to deliver and  sign the letter, declaration or 
any other necessary document (e.g.  release letter ) 
which releases SIEMENS ENERGY and guara ntor of 
any obligations under the existing guarantee s, and 
which is  reasonably acceptable to the contracting 
parties.  
III. Retention of title  
 
1. SIEMENS ENERGY  shall have the retention of title  
on all supplied  products until the full settlement of the 
purchase price, including possible interest and  / or 
expenses  by the ORDERER as well as fulfillment  of all 
of its rights and obligations which the ORDERER has 
towards SIEMENS ENERGY  on the basis of the 
respective business relationship .  
 
2. On the Supplies on which retention of title by 
SIEMENS ENERGY  is applied, transfer of risk for 
accidental destruction and damage shall be borne  by 
the ORDERER from the moment the respective 
Supplies have been delivered to him. During the 
duration of period of  retention of title by SIEMENS 
ENERGY , the ORDERER cannot all ow seizure or 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 4 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
transfer of ownership, establish pledge over the 
supplied  products or encumber such products in any 
other way . The possibility of further sale and  / or 
distribution o f supplied  products is allowed only to 
merchants and  / or trading companies , within  their 
regular activities , and only under the condition that the 
merchant  and / or trading company receive s the 
payment from its buyer or, at the time of sale, declares  
the right of retention of title , under which the ownership 
shall be transferred to the buyer i n the moment of 
payment of the full sale -purchase price.  
 
3. The ORDERER is obliged, without any delay , to 
inform SIEMENS ENERGY  on seizures, 
enforcements  or other legal  actions or interventions of 
third parties, while the ORDERER is obliged to inform 
such third p arties  on the right of retention of title  by 
SIEMENS ENERGY  over delivered products.  
 
4. If the ORDERER breache s any of the material  
contract obligations, especially if it delay s with the 
fulfillment of its payment obligation s, SIEMENS 
ENERGY  shall be authori zed, upon serving  the notice 
on delay, to retrieve the delivered products, while  the 
ORDERER shall be obliged to deliver them on the 
location indicated by SIEMENS ENERGY , regardless 
of application of Article 2 paragraph 4 of these General 
Conditions. The r eturn of the supplied  goods  i.e. 
realization of retention of title by SIEMENS ENERGY  
shall not be considered termination of the a greement 
between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER, 
unless explicitly stated so by SIEMENS ENERGY  in 
writing.  
 
IV. Deadlines for Supplies  and Delay  
 
1. SIEMENS ENERGY ’s deadline for the Supplies  of 
products and / or rendering of services shall 
commence at the latest on the following dates : 
 
a) on the date of confirmation of the offer; 
and 
 
b) on the date of fulfillment of all technical, 
commercial and other pre -conditions which are 
the obligation of the ORDERER ; and 
 
c) on the date when SIEMENS ENERGY , 
prior to Supplies  of goods, receives advance 
payment or the security instrument ; or 
 
d) on other date explicitly agreed in the 
relevant agreement . 
 
2. Unless otherwise expressly stated in  the 
agreement, SIEMENS ENERGY ’s timely receipt of 
entire  documentation  and obtaining of required 
approval s and / or consent s, including obtaining of 
possible approvals and  / or consents of third parties, 
as well as respect  of agreed conditions  of payment and duly and timely fulfilment of  other obligations by 
the ORDERER is a pre -condition for the timely 
fulfillment  of the deadlines of delivery by SIEMENS 
ENERGY . If such conditions are not timely fulfilled , 
SIEMENS ENERGY ’s deadlines for the fulfillment of 
contracted obligations shall be p ostpone d until the 
moment of fulfillment  of contracted obligations by the 
ORDERER.   
 
In case of delay of Supplies , caused only by SIEMENS 
ENERGY , the agreed Supplies  deadlines shall be 
postpon ed in accordance with the agreement between 
the ORDERER and SIEMENS ENERGY . SIEMENS 
ENERGY  is not responsible for the delay in fulfillment  
of its obligations which occurred due to ordinary 
negligence , but SIEMENS ENERGY  is liable for the 
delay occurred due to his gross negligence of willful  
misconduct.   
 
3. If the breach of obligation for timely Supplies by 
SIEMENS ENERGY  is the consequence of force  
maje ure event  such as mobilization, war  or acts of 
war, rebellion, natural disaste rs, epidemics or 
pandemics,  strike,  lock-out, blockade, fire,  
earthquake,  non-obtaining  of required licences , 
permits or approvals  (e.g. positioning licence, 
installation licence, export, import), interventions of the 
legislator , any other act or failure to act by any public 
authority, embargos or any other trade sanctions 
imposed by the European Union or the United States 
of America (which, upon sole discretion of SIEMENS 
ENERGY , may expose SIEMENS ENERGY  or any of 
its affiliates  to sanctions, penalties or other actions of 
governmental au thorities detrimental to Supplier or 
any of its Affiliates ), attacks on SIEMENS ENERGY IT 
systems (such as virus attacks, hacker attacks , etc. ), 
actions by the ORDERER or any third party  or any 
other event s, which could not be foreseen  or 
influenced by SIEMENS ENERGY  (hereinafter: Force 
Majeure Event) , the Supplies  deadlines shall be 
postpon ed for the period of time of such event s i.e. 
until the removal of consequences caused by such 
event s. If a Force Majeure Event occurs, SIEMENS 
ENERGY  will be deemed not to be in breach of its 
obligations under the agreement  for so long as and to 
the extent necessary to overcome the effects of the 
Force Majeure Event.  SIEMENS ENERGY  is obliged 
to inform the ORDERER about these circumstances 
without delay by a written  notice.  
For the avoidance of doubt, and notwithstanding the 
aforementioned circumstances, SIEMENS ENERGY 
shall be entitled to a reasonable adjustment of th is 
Contract ’s terms and conditions, scope, price, delivery 
times and schedule in the event of delays and costs  
(and any related consequences ) directly or indirectly 
caused by an uncertain political and security situation 
in the world which effects are difficult to foresee  for the 
Parties  at the time of Contract signing and which can , 
directly and indirectly,  affect the execution of this 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 5 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
Contract, including, but not limited to, the availability 
of certain equipment, commodities, metals, and 
materials as well as the availability of transportation 
routes, means and services and supply of gas.  
The a bove referenced  circumstances justify the 
postponement  of Supplies  deadlines also when 
occurred with SIEMENS ENERGY ’s suppliers, sub -
contractors and  / or sub-deliverers.  
 
Notwithstanding every thing mentioned in paragraphs 
1, 2 and 3 of this Article, if the postponement  of 
deadlines for the fulfillment of obligations occur s at the 
side of the ORDERER  for any reason , the deadline for 
the fulfillment of SIEMENS ENERGY ’s obligations  
shall be p ostpone d for the same  period of time.  
 
4. If the parties agree  on the contractual  penalties 
with respect to the delivery of ordered products i.e. 
rendering of services  by SIEMENS ENERGY , the 
same shall be paid pursuant to the following provision 
of these General Condition s.  
 
In case of delay with the fulfillment of the contracted 
obligations by SIEMENS ENERGY , which  occurred 
solely due to SIEMENS ENERGY ’s willful  misconduct 
or gross negligence , and upon  expiry of additional 
dead line for the delivery which can not be shorter  than 
30 (thirty) days, the ORDERER is authorized, for e ach 
full week  (7 (seven) days)  of delay, to the contractual 
penalty of up to 0,5 % ( in words: zero point five 
percent) from the value of th at part of the total delivery 
which, due t o late  delivery of the major part, cannot be 
used.  
 
The contractual penalty wh ich SIEMENS ENERGY  is 
obliged to pay pursuant to this paragraph ca nnot 
exceed  total of 5 % (five percent) of the value of th e 
part of the total delivery which, due to late delivery of 
the major part, cannot be used.  
 
5. Unless  otherwise expressly stated  in the 
agreement, all other requests of the ORDERER 
regarding th e delay of SIEMENS ENERGY  with the 
Supplies , which exceed the limit s stated in paragraph 
4 of this Article, including but not limited to damage 
compensation of any damage or expenses , shall be 
excluded in all cases of the delayed  Supplies .   
 
Unless otherwise expressly stated in the agreement,  
by payment of the agreed contractual penalty by 
SIEMENS ENERGY , the ORDERER shall be deprived 
from the right to unilaterally  terminat e the a greement  
and the  right to request the compensation of damages 
connected with the delay incurred from the respective 
agreement . The ORDERER will loose its right to claim 
contractual penalty for delay of SIEMENS ENERGY , 
in case  the ORDERER has accepted the fulfillment  of 
the obligations from SIEMENS ENERGY  and did not 
without delay expressly notified SIEMENS ENERGY  in writing that it retains the right for the contractual 
penalty for delay .  
 
6. If the ORDERER is in delay of more than 7 (seven) 
days with the acceptance of fulfi llment from the day of 
SIEMENS ENERGY ’s declaration on the readiness for 
the f ulfillment, the ORDERER shall bear , for e ach 
starting  week, a fee for the warehouse  storage 
pursuant to actual expenses of such storage.   
 
Notwithstanding any other rights under this 
agreement, i n the case of delay from the point  1 of this 
subclause 6 , and if the ORDERER , the ORDERER’s 
contractors, or any other third party put in charge by 
the ORDERER  is responsible for  any delay  or 
deadline prolongation which causes the prolongation 
of SIEMENS ENERGY’s deadlines in  the provision of 
the Supplies , or the deadlines for the Supplies is 
prolonged due to the reasons not attributable to 
SIEMENS ENERGY,  the ORDERER  shall reimburse 
SIEMENS ENERGY  for all the additional costs and 
expenses  and/or damages  incurred due to such delay.  
 
7. The ORDERER shall be obliged, upon the 
Supplies  of products, and during the duration of the 
retention of title  by SIEMENS  ENERGY  i.e. until  full 
settlement of the sale -purchase price, to obtain 
insurance of the delivered products from the usual 
risks and to deliver the concluded insurance policies 
for SIEMENS ENERGY ’ review within shortest 
possible time.  
 
V. Transfer of risks  
 
1. Unless otherwise expressly stated in the 
agreement,  the risk – in case of  Supplies  without the 
transport  fee for  the objects of Supplies  – shall be 
transferred to the ORDERER as follows:  
a) in case of  Supplies  without installation or 
fitting  – when the object of Supplies  was given over 
to the transport or when the Supplies  were offered 
to the ORDERER in the usual a nd / or agree d 
manner and under contracted and / or usual 
conditions. SIEMENS ENERGY  shall not be 
obliged to insure the ob ject of transportation from 
usual risks in transport and the referenc ed 
insurance must be contracted  separately .  
 
b) in case of  Supplies  with installation  or fitting  – on 
the day of takeover in its own facility  or after the 
test running  which will be agreed upon in the 
relevant  protocol .  
 
2. In each of the points stipulated in paragraph 1. 
(one) above , the transfer of risk for accidental 
destruction and damage will be taken over by the 
ORDERER in the moment the ORDERER will be in 
delay with the fulfillment  of any of its obligations.  
 
3. Moreover, i f the transportation, suppl y, 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 6 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
commencement, implementation of installment  or 
fitting , takeover in its own facility  or test running  are in 
delay due to liability of the ORDERER or if the 
ORDERER is in delay with the takeover due to some 
other reasons, the risk shall be transferred to the 
ORDERER in the moment when the ORDERER  
rejects to receive the fulfillment or prevent  it by its  own 
behavior. Nothwithstanding any other rights under the 
agreement, i n such case, parts, which are part of the 
Supplies , can be stored and insured at the risk and 
expense of the ORDERER  and any payment shall 
become due.  
 
VI. Installation and fitting  
 
For installation  and fitting  – unless explicitly agreed 
otherwise  in the agreement , the following provisions 
shall apply: 
 
1. The ORDERER shall be obliged , at its own 
expense , to take over and timely secure:  
a) all land, construction and other supporting 
works, which are contractually agreed and which 
are not part of SIEMENS ENERGY ’s business 
activities, including necessary expert and assisting 
work labor, construction materials and tools, etc.;  
 
b) all necessary objects and materials which are 
required for the installation and putting into 
operations , such as scaffolding poles, cranes and 
other machines, fuels and lubricants, etc.;   
 
c)  energ y and water at  the place of use, 
including all other required connection points, 
including but not limited to heating and light, etc.;  
 
d)  at the installation place, for the purpose of 
storage of machines, appliances,  materials,  tools, 
etc. – large enough,  adequate , dry rooms , which 
may be locked, a nd for personnel which shall 
perform the installation – adequate working space 
and rooms for rest, including sanitation space and 
/ or appliances, adequate under circumstances the 
ORDERER shall , for the purpose of protection of 
SIEMENS ENERGY ’s personnel  who perform  the 
installation  and SIEMENS ENERGY ’s assets , 
including but not limited to equipment for work and 
the Supplies which are subject of delivery and are 
located at the premises of the ORDERER or on the 
location on which the ORDERER has control or the 
ORDERERS’ suppliers or subcontractors,  take all 
measures for protection and insurance which the 
ORDERER  would take for the protection of its own 
property and workers, as well as appropriate 
measures prescribed by legal provisions applicable 
at the  installation location;  
 
e) Protective  clothes and appliances, required 
due to specific conditions on the installation 
location, as well as take adequate measures of protection on work at the installation location.  
 
2. Before the start of the installation works, the 
ORDERER shall put at SIEMENS ENERGY ’s disposal  
all required data on the position of underground power 
lines, gas and water lines and similar  facilities and/or  
installations, as well as all required static information.  
 
3. Unless otherwise explicitly  agreed in  the 
agreement, prior to the beginning of installation  and 
fitting , the ORDERER is obliged to ensure  that all 
appliances and objects required for the 
commencement of work must be located at the place 
of installation  and fitting . All preparatory work must be  
performed to in a way that the installation and fitting 
could  be start and be performed without an y 
interruptions. Approach roads and the  location of 
installation and fitting  must be leveled , arranged, 
cleared  and without any obstacles .  
 
4. If in the process of installation , fitting  or putting into 
operation  should come to p ostponement of agreed 
deadlines due to circumstances for which SIEMENS 
ENERGY  is not responsible, the ORDERER shall be 
obliged to settle all expenses incurred by SIEMENS 
ENERGY  for such p ostpon ed time , including, but not 
limited  to travel expenses and other possible damages 
of SIEMENS ENERGY  caused by such 
postponement .  
 
 
5. The ORDERER shall , at least once in 7 (seven) 
days, except if mandatory regulations prescribe 
otherwise , confirm to SIEMENS ENERGY  the duration 
of working hours of workers wh o perform the 
installation and, without any delay , the ORDERER will 
in the written form in the protocol determine the 
completion of  works for installation  and fitting , or the 
moment of putting  the system  into operation . 
 
6. If upon  completion of work SIEMENS ENERGY  
demands  the takeover of the Supplies , the ORDERER 
shall be obliged to take over  the Supplies  within 7 
(seven ) days  thereof the protocol will fe be drawn up . If 
the take  over or the signing of the protocol  would not 
take place within such time without any justified 
reason , or if the acceptance test or inspections (if 
agreed or applicable) have not been carried out within 
7 (seven) days after the scheduled dates, or after 
SIEMENS ENERGY requested it ( in case  no dates  are 
agreed ), due to the reasons not attributable to 
SIEMENS ENERGY,   i.e. if the ORDERER has 
already started with the use of object of the Supplies , 
it shall be consider ed that the take over was 
completed, whereby the period of validity of 
commercial guarantee and other obligations of the 
ORDERER and SIEMENS ENERGY  in relation to the 
take over of object of Supplies  shall commence as if 
the take over has been completed .  
 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 7 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
 
VII. Takeover  
 
1. If the ORDERER, prior to the time of Supplies , 
does not deliver to SIEMENS ENERGY  the 
instructions of the delivery of  Supplies , SIEMENS 
ENERGY  shall be autho rized to deliver  the Supplies  
at the seat of the ORDERER by transportation manner 
chose n by SIEMENS ENERGY . In case of such 
Supplies , SIEMENS ENERGY  shall not be obliged to 
secure the storag e for the object of Supplies .  
 
2. The ORDERER shall be obliged to take over the 
object of Supplies  even when it has minor deficiencies  
or minor damages which do not disturb the normal use 
and / or use which satisfies the security demands. 
Burden of proof that  deficiencies or damages are not 
minor rests on the ORDERER.  For the avoidance of 
the doubt , the ORDERER is not allowed to condition 
its acceptance and takeover of the Supplies, or any 
part thereof, with the acceptance and takeover of the 
Supplies by any other third party, unless otherwise 
explicitly agreed.  
 
3.  In any case, it is deemed that the ORDERER has 
taken over and accepted the Supplies in cases 
stipulated under the Article VI, subclause 6 of this 
General Terms.  
 
VIII. Liability for defects  and commercial 
guarantee  
 
1. In case of abiding by the agreed payment term s 
and timely notification to SIEMENS ENERGY  on any 
detected defect  on behalf of the ORDERER , 
SIEMENS ENERGY  shall be obliged to remove a ny 
such defect  which exist ed in the moment of take over 
of the object of delivery i.e. of transfer of risk to the 
ORDERER and which affects  the normal functioning , 
and which is based on the error in construction, 
material and / or production of supplied  products and / 
or rendered services. SIEMENS ENERGY  will not be 
held liable for any defects if the ORDERER was 
familiar wi th those defects or those defects could not 
have been unfamiliar , at the time of the conclusion of 
the contract.  
 
For defects , which also include the lack of agreed 
characteristics , SIEMENS ENERGY  shall be liable as 
follows:  
SIEMENS ENERGY  shall remove any defec t on the 
object of Supplies  if the ORDERER , without any delay  
and in any case not later than 3 (three) days from the 
transfer of risk to the ORDERER, report s the defec t by 
a written letter, whereby the ORDERER has to prove 
the existence of the reported defect . In case of breach 
of this provision by the ORDERER, SIEMENS 
ENERGY  shall not be obliged to remove such defect .  
 
In case of the defect  which could not be found by ordinary inspection in the process of take over i.e. of 
transfer of risk to the ORDERER, the ORDERER shall 
be obliged to inform SIEMENS ENERGY  on such 
defect  by a written letter within 30 (thirty) days from the 
transfer of risk. If the ORDERER passes  the 
referenced deadline  or the material  defect  is revealed 
following the lapse of six months from the transfer of 
risk to him , the ORDERER  shall lose the right to refer 
to such defect  and the obligation of SIEMENS 
ENERGY  to remove such defect will cease .  
 
In case of timely notice  of the defect  and determination 
of the defect , SIEMENS ENERGY  shall, at its own 
choice and at its own expense, repair, make another 
Supplies  or render, all those parts or  services whose 
agreed usage, under  circumstances occurred prior to 
the transfer of risk to the ORDERER, is significantly 
decreased.   
  
The ORDERER must, without any delay, make all 
documentation i.e. data in its possession available to 
SIEMENS ENERGY , all for the purpose of prompt  
determin ing of the condition of goods and removal of 
defect s.  
 
For the removal of defect s the ORDERER shall make 
available  to SIEMENS ENERGY  the adequate period 
of time and adequate conditions . If this should be 
denied and / or not made available  by the ORDERER, 
SIEMENS ENERGY  shall be rel eased from any 
obligation to remov e the defect s. If adequate period of 
time granted to SIEMENS ENERGY  should expire  and 
SIEMENS ENERGY  has not remove d the defect  
through his own fault , the ORDERER  may use its right 
to return the unsatisfactory Supplies , with the return of 
the paid compensation for the part of object of  
Supplies  which has the defect, or may ask for the 
adequa te decrease of the sale -purchase price.  
 
2. The period of validity of commercial guarantee for 
the object of the Supplies  is 12 (twelve) months, 
unless specific guarantee periods have been agreed 
for certain objects of Supplies . This guarantee period 
shall begin in the moment of transfer of risk to the 
ORDERER pursuant to these General Conditions.  
 
The commercial  guarantee does not apply to wear and 
tear or damages which occur on the objects of 
Supplies  upon  transfer of risk to the ORDERER, 
including, but not limited to incorrect, careless  and / or 
superficial use, overload, unauthorized servicing, use 
of inadequate fuel, due to inadequate construction 
works, chemical influence s, atmospherical  
discharges, inadequate construction ground  or on the 
basis of special outer influence s which were not 
specified in the a greement, or the software 
malfunctions which cannot be reproduced , as well as 
installation which is not performed by SIEMENS 
ENERGY . The a bove mentioned limitatio n is 
identically being applied to those malfunctions and / or 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 8 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
damages result ing from  the materials delivered by the 
ORDERER.  
 
The ORDERER’s right of guarantee shall not be 
applied to the damages caused by third persons or  by 
the ORDERER itself.  
 
Third party software is not covered by SIEMENS 
ENERGY  commercial guarantee, nor is  SIEMENS 
ENERGY  responsible for any defects of the third party 
software or damage caused by third party software.  
 
If the ORDERER or third persons should make any 
non-expert modifications or put the object into 
operation , then there shall be no  SIEMENS ENERGY  
guarantee obligation for damages and / or 
malfunctions  which were  made by such modifications 
and works.  
 
The period of validity of commercial guarantee for 
additional repairs, substitute Supplies  or rendering of 
substitute services is 6 (six) months, whereby  the 
reference d deadline shall last at least until the expir y 
of original commercial guarantee period for the object 
of Supplies .  
 
The period of validity of commercial guarantee shall 
be postpon ed for those parts which , due to interruption 
of the use of the object of Supplies , cannot be put in 
work pursuant to their purpose - during the p eriod of 
time identical to that  of use interruption , caused by 
repairs, substitute Supplies  or rendering of substitute 
service.  
 
The period of validity of commercial guarantee for the 
objects of Supplies , including subsequent  repairs and 
substitute deliveries, shall in any case lapse  at the 
latest within 18 (eighteen)  months from the transfer of 
risk to the ORDERER.  
 
The commercial guarantee rights do not arise  from the 
data stated in catalogues, prospects, advertisements , 
or from any written or oral statement drafted or made 
by a third party outside of SIEMENS ENERGY ’s 
control, unless if explicitly stated otherwise in the 
agreement.  
 
SIEMENS ENERGY  shall not assume any commercial 
guarantee in case of  sale of used goods.  
 
If SIEMENS ENERGY  proves that , in case of  reported 
damage and / or malfunction on the  object of Supplies , 
it is not the  case covered by the commercial 
guarantee, the ORDERER shall reimburse  SIEMENS 
ENERGY  of all repair and / or replacement expenses, 
pursuant to hourly rates, including all incurred travel 
expenses.  
 
Any other rights of the ORDERER towards SIEMENS 
ENERGY  on the basis of commercial guarantee , as well as any other liability, rights , remedies  and 
warranties  in case of defective Supplies , services or 
defects  implied by the applicable law are to the fullest 
extent  excluded , except as expressly provided in this 
Clause VIII., including sub -deliverers and / or sub -
contractors of SIEMENS ENERGY  responsible for the 
execution of the a greement, unless stated d ifferently 
in the  guarantee list for certain technical  products.  
The guarantee shall be issued to the ORDERER in a 
form of a document and with contents as set out in the 
Article 423 para 9 of the Civil obligations Act.  
 
3. This Article does not affect the application of Article 
XIII (Other liabilities ).  
 
IX. Electronic Commerce  
 
1. Electronic Commerce shall mean the conduct of 
business in the electronic format by using information 
and communication technology and/or electronic 
signature in legal transaction as defined by the 
legislature regulating electronic commerce  and 
electronic signature . Electronic Commerce shall be 
equivalent to the classic (written) one provided that:  
a) Permanent preservation of the electronic messages 
and their later use is ensured;  
b) Information is retained as to enable the 
identification of the origin and the destination of an 
electronic message as well as the place and time 
when it was sent or received;  
c) Information is retained in the format in which it was 
generated, sent or received, or in a format that 
accurately represents the information generated, sent 
or received, respectively;  
d) Technology and procedures used appropriately 
prevent any change or deletion of the data, or reliably 
ensure the inalterability of the message, respectively.  
  
2. An electronic message shall be deemed as sent 
when it enters the information system out of the control 
of the sender or the person who sent the electronic 
message upon his order on his behalf. The electronic 
message shall not be deemed as unsent if there is no 
confirmation of reception unless a prior express 
written agreement stipulates that a confirmation of 
reception is required for a valid delivery.  
 
 
3. The electronic message shall be deemed as 
received when it enters the recipient’s information 
system.  
 
X. Special Terms & Conditions for Cyber Offers  
 
1. The warranties contained herein related to cyber 
security are SIEMENS ENERGY 's sole and exclusive 
warranties as to SIEMENS ENERGY  products and 
services and are subject to the limits of liability within 
the contract. SIEMENS ENERGY  makes no other 
warranties, express or implied, including, without 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 9 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
limitation, warranties of merchantability or fitness for a 
particular purpose, course of dealing and usage of 
trade.  
 
2. Terms used in this Article X shall have the following 
meaning:   
 
"Bug Fix" means any correction of software errors in 
the Product.  
 
"Cyberthreat" means any circumstance or event with 
the potential to adversely impact the ORDERER ’s 
plants, systems, machines and networks (including 
the Product/s ) via unauthorized access, destruction, 
disclosure and/or modification of information, denial of 
service attacks or comparable scenarios.  
 
"Penetration Testing” or “Intrusive Security Testing” 
means the method that evaluates the security of a 
computer system or network by simulating an attack, 
whereby instability may occur during system 
operation, communication between equipment and 
computer networks.  
 
"High Risk Use" means any use of the Products  for 
devices or systems requiring fault -tolerant/fail -safe 
performance or any other use in which the failure or 
inaccuracy of or a cyber -attack on  Product might 
reasonably foreseeably result in death, personal injury 
or severe physical or environmental damage.  
 
"Patch" means an Update that fixes a Vulnerability.  
 
“Point of Contact” means a person or department that 
can be approached for information or assistance.  
 
"Product(s)" means products, services, solutions and 
systems consisting of hardware and/or software which 
are sold, licensed or otherwise made available to the 
ORDERER  by SIEMENS ENERGY , irrespective of 
whether the manufacturer is SIEMENS ENERGY or a 
third party, and the respective services rendered by 
SIEMENS ENERGY . Provided however, that making 
available shall not include soliciting of respective 
transactions between the ORDERER  and a third party, 
such as brokering third party apps on SIEMENS 
ENERGY platforms.  
 
"Remote Service" means SIEMENS  ENERGY 
Remote Service, i.e., an online connection between 
SIEMENS ENERGY and the relevant Product at the 
ORDERER ’s site allowing for remote services e.g. 
installation of Updates, Bug Fix and Patches as well 
as monitoring and analysis.  
 
"Update" means any software which primarily contains 
Bug Fix, Patches and/or minor enhancements or 
improvements of the Product but does not contain 
significant new features.  
 "Upgrade" means any hardware/software which 
primarily contains major enhancements of the Product 
and new features.  
 
"Vulnerability" means a weakness in a Product that 
could be exploited to permit unauthorized access, use, 
or modification to such Product or computing 
environment . 
 
3. ORDERER  is solely responsible for the 
conception, implementation, and maintenance of a 
holistic, state -of-the-art cybersecurity concept to 
protect its enterprise with all plants, systems, 
machines and networks, for which the Products are 
provided, against Cyberthreats. Such cybersecurity 
concept shall at least comply with ISO/IEC 27001, IEC 
62443 and/or, if applicable, NERC CIP.  
 
ORDERER ’s cybersecurity concept should inter alia 
include:  
 
a) restricting access to ORDERER 's premises and to  
its plants, systems, machines and networks to where 
absolutely necessary;  
 
b) installing Updates as soon as they are available in 
accordance with the installation instructions given by 
SIEMENS ENERGY and using the latest version;  
 
c) complying with SIEMENS ENERGY security  
advisories and other guidelines;  
 
d) if Vulnerabilities are identified by the ORDERER , 
the ORDERER  shall notify SIEMENS ENERGY in 
writing without undue delay. By signing the contract, 
the ORDERER  acknowledges that delay in such 
communication may exacerbate any Vulnerabilities, 
and fully assumes the risks and liabilities of such 
delay. ORDERER  shall cooperate with SIEMENS 
ENERGY , and must not disclose or notify the 
Vulnerability without the prior written consent from 
SIEMENS ENERGY , unless such disclosure or 
notification is required to comply with mandatory legal 
regulations;  
 
e) connecting the plants, products, systems, 
machines and networks, for which the Products are 
provided, to other networks, such as the enterprise 
network or the internet must only be done where 
absolutely necessary and only when appropriate 
security measures  (e.g. firewalls, network client 
authentication and/or network segmentation) are in 
place and the guidelines of the respective 
manufacturers are fulfilled;  
 
f) not connecting Bluetooth, USB, or any personal 
devices to a product, system, or machine unless 
having consulted with a SIEMENS ENERGY support 
engineer;  
 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 10 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
g) minimizing the risk of a malware infection (e.g., 
through contents of USB -storage media and other 
connected removable storage devices) through 
malware scanners with approved compatibility by the 
manufacturer or other appropriate protective 
measures;  
 
h) raising the awareness of ORDERER 's personnel  
towards dangers associated with Cyberthreats by, e.g. 
regular communication and training.  
 
ORDERER must not perform any Penetration Testing 
or Intrusive Security Testing involving the Products 
without having agreed with SIEMENS ENERGY on 
scope and receiving prior written permission of 
SIEMENS ENERGY.  
 
4. Although SIEMENS ENERGY uses commercially 
reasonable effort to provide its Product free of viruses 
and protect it against attacks prior to delivery, 
SIEMENS ENERGY does not warrant or guarantee 
that any Product will be secure from Cyberthreats and 
does not  contain any Vulnerability.  
 
If SIEMENS ENERGY becomes aware of a 
Vulnerability which SIEMENS ENERGY , at its sole 
discretion, identifies and validates as safety relevant 
(meaning that in the event of exploitation of this 
Vulnerability the Product might reasonably 
foreseeably result in death or personal injury), it shall 
inform the ORDERER  thereof without undue delay.  
 
If SIEMENS ENERGY identifies Vulnerabilities in the 
Products during the warranty period, SIEMENS 
ENERGY shall provide the ORDERER  upon 
SIEMENS ENERGY ’s sole discretion either with a 
Patch or an Update.  
 
SIEMENS ENERGY will provide the respective Patch 
or Update to the ORDERER  within a reasonable time 
following SIEMENS ENERGY testing and validating 
such Patch/Update. In the event that the Vulnerability 
relates to third party software, SIEMENS ENERGY will 
provide a Patch or an Update if and to the extent such 
third party makes the Patch/Update available to 
SIEMENS ENERGY . 
 
Upon its discretion, SIEMENS ENERGY will provide 
the Patch/Update : 
a) Via Remote Services if the relevant Product is 
connected to Remote Services; the ORDERER  
hereby grants its consent to such provision; or  
b) Via download through a weblink to be provided; or  
c) Via onsite installation by SIEMENS ENERGY . In 
this case, SIEMENS ENERGY may charge the 
ORDERER  for the extra expenses (time and material) 
that result from the installation.  
 
Depending on the severity of the Vulnerability as 
determined by SIEMENS ENERGY , SIEMENS ENERGY may elect to provide the Patch as part of 
upcoming routine Updates.  
 
The obligations of SIEMENS ENERGY as set forth in 
this Article X  shall be the exclusive remedy and in lieu 
of any other rights and remedies the ORDERER may 
have with respect to Cyberthreats and any damage 
suffered therefrom whether under contract, law or 
otherwise.  
 
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, any right of the 
ORDERER  to claim damages resulting from or related 
to Cyberthreats, such as but not limited to loss or 
manipulation of data, downtime, business interruption, 
lost profit, cost for Product reset and/or data 
reconstruction, regardless of the legal basis, but in 
particular resulting from any duty under the agreement 
or as a result of any tortious act, is hereby excluded. 
In particular SIEMENS ENERGY assumes no liability 
whatsoever for damage caused by  
(a) ORDERERS ’ Intrusive Security Testing;  
(b) unauthorized modification of the system 
configuration or security level;  
(c) the installation of Patches which are not authorized 
by SIEMENS ENERGY ; or 
(d) the ORDERER  delaying the self -installation of 
Patches made available by SIEMENS ENERGY via 
Remote Services or for download.  
 
High Risk Use: The Products are not designed, 
manufactured, tested or intended for High Risk Use. 
ORDERER  uses the Products for High Risk Use at 
ORDERER ’s own risk. SIEMENS ENERGY disclaims 
any express or implied warranty for High Risk Use. 
ORDERER  shall not be entitled to any claim  against 
SIEMENS ENERGY or any SIEMENS ENERGY 
subcontractors arising from use for or in connection 
with High Risk Use.  ORDERER  shall defend and 
indemnify SIEMENS ENERGY against any 
proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost (including 
attorneys’ and witness fees), damages and 
settlements to the extent that it is based upon a claim 
connected with or caused by ORDERER  or its 
Affiliates’ use of Products for or in connection with 
devices or systems requiring fail -safe or fault -tolerant 
performance and/or High risk use scenarios.  
 
SIEMENS ENERGY  does not warrant the services 
proposed in this document will prevent future 
successful Cyberthreats  or detect all security 
Vulnerabilities in the ORDERER’s  systems and 
ORDERER  acknowledges the same.  
 
XI. Intellectual property  rights  and copyright  
 
1. If a third person , due to  breach of intellectual 
property rights or copyright  (hereinafter: Protected 
rights) which are in connection with the object of 
Supplies  delivered by SIEMENS ENERGY  and used 
pursuant to the agreement and/or the order, place s 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 11 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
justified demands towards the ORDERER on the basis 
of breach of protect ed rights of such third persons, 
SIEMENS ENERGY  shall then be liable  to the 
ORDERER as follows:  
 
a) SIEMENS ENERGY  shall, at its own choice and 
at its own expense , acquire either the right to use 
such product or shall amend the product in such 
manner to avoid any breach of rights of third 
persons or shall replace the product. If this is not 
possible under acceptable conditions, SIEMENS 
ENERGY  shall then take back the product and 
adequately decrease the total price, i.e. shall return 
the amount of the sale -purchase price if the 
referenced circumstance prevents the possibility of 
fulfillment  of the purpose of the agreement.  
 
b) The a bove mentioned obligations of SIEMENS 
ENERGY  shall exist exclusively if the ORDERER, 
without any delay, informed SIEMENS ENERGY  
on any  potential liability, claim, commenced 
proceedings and / or other requests of third parties , 
if the ORDERER has not acknowledged the 
alleged breach of protect ed rights , and if SIEMENS 
ENERGY  has all rights to object  and hold 
negotiations to reach a settlement. If the 
ORDERER ceases to  use the product in order to 
reduce the  damage  or for o ther important  reasons, 
the ORDERER  shall be obliged to notify the third 
person that the termination of use has no 
connection with the acknowledgement  of the  
protected right  breach .  
 
2. All requests of the  ORDERER shall be excluded if 
the ORDERER  is liable for the breach of protect ed 
rights of third persons i.e. if the ORDERER  did not 
fulfill its obligations stated in Article X I paragraph 1 
point b ). 
 
3. Unless otherwise explicitly stated  in the 
agreement, all requests of the ORDERER are 
excluded if the breach of protected rights is caused by  
special, previously supplied  data and information 
delivered by the ORDERER, by wh ich implementation 
SIEMENS ENERGY  could not know nor had a reason 
to believe that the supplied  products could cause 
breach of  the protected  rights of third parties  i.e. if the 
ORDERER independently altered the product or used 
it together with the products not supplied  by SIEMENS 
ENERGY .  
 
 
 
4. Unless otherwise explicitly stated in the 
agreement, all other rights of the ORDERER towards 
SIEMENS ENERGY  on the basis of breach of the 
industrial registered right or copyright of third parties  
are excluded.  
 
5. The ORDERER has non -exclusive , non -transferable and revocable  right to use the software 
suppli ed by SIEMENS ENERGY , with agreed 
characteristics, in its unaltered form and on agreed 
appliances. The ORDERER has the right, without any 
specific authorization of SIEMENS ENERGY , to make 
one security copy of delivered software , which has to 
contain  all pertaining copyrights of SIEMENS 
ENERGY  and / or owner of the suppli ed software.   
 
 
For the avoidance of the doubt, a ll intellectual and/or 
industrial property rights, and/or copyrights and know -
how in and to the software, any digital services  and the 
applications  and any parts and every improvement or 
further development thereof, other than those 
expressly granted herein, shall remain wholly vested 
in SIEMENS ENERGY or its third party suppliers and/ 
or licensors. Unless otherwise explicitly stated in the 
agreement, the ORDERER shall not copy, translate, 
modify, adapt, decompile, dism antle,alter or reverse 
engineer  the software , digital services or applications  
of SIEMENS ENERGY  without the prior written 
approval of SIEMENS ENERGY , and shall not in any 
manner attempt to derive the source code or 
underlying ideas or algorithm of any application and/or 
third party application or any portion thereof  and shall 
ensure that third parties will not do the same . 
 
If the ORDERER should, as an exemption from the 
above mentioned, with or without the approval of 
SIEMENS ENERGY , copy, translate, modify, adapt, 
decompile, dismantle  or alter the software of 
SIEMENS ENERGY , SIEMENS ENERGY  shall then 
possess all rights to each  copy, translation, 
modification, adaptation or p erformance  of software, 
including a ny improvement or advancement thereo f. 
At SIEMENS ENERGY ’s request the ORDERER shall 
undertake  any necessary actions in order to transfer 
the rights arising out of copy, translation, modification, 
adaptation or performance of the delivered software to 
SIEMENS ENERGY  and / or  to the owner of supplied  
software.  
 
The ORDERER has no right to use the original code 
of software supplied  by SIEMENS ENERGY , unless 
otherwise explicitly stated in the agreement . 
  
This Article shall not affect  the application of Article 
XIII (Other liabilities ), or the right of the ORDERER to 
terminate the agreement  in accordance with the Article 
XII. of these General conditions .   
 
 
XII. Impossibility  of performance , adaptation  of 
the agreement  and termination  
 
1. The condition to terminate an agreement 
concluded between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the 
ORDERER , unless otherwise explicitly stated  in the 
agreement, is impossibility  to supply the subject 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 12 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
matter of the contract, the delay in  supply  by 
SIEMENS ENERGY  pursuant to Article IV. of this 
General Conditions  and non-fulfillment of  contractual  
obligations of the ORDERER, upon expiry of the 
adequate additional period for fulfillment . The 
termination notice is served by registered mail  to the 
business address of the contractual parties . 
 
2. If the agreed delivery becomes impossible due to 
reasons for which SIEMENS ENERGY  is exclusively  
liable according to paragraph 1 of this Article , and  in 
case the ORDERER has fulfilled all or part of its 
contractual obligations connected with the payment  
obligation,  the ORDERER has the right to claim the 
return of the money paid less any additional cost and 
expenses incurred by SIEMENS ENERGY due  to 
such circumstances , excluding interests or other 
expenses  and fees.  In this case , the ORDERER 
retains the right to terminate the agreement  upon 
unsuccessful expiry of the additional reasonable time 
period for completion , whereas the  amount to which 
the ORDERER is entitled to on the basis of this 
subpoint , represents the sole and exclusive 
compensation in case of the ORDERER’s  termination  
in such case .  
 
If the agreed Supplies become impossible due to the 
reason for which neither party can be held liable, 
mutual contractual obligations cease and contractual 
parties are obliged to return one another all that they 
have accepted on the basis of fulfillment  of contractual 
obligations.  
 
3. If unforeseen events in the sense of Article IV. 
Paragraph 3 and 4 materially changes  the economic 
relevance or the content of Supplies , or if they 
materially affect the SIEMENS ENERGY ’s business, 
the agreement shall be adequately adjusted to the 
new situation pursuant to the principle of 
conscientiousness  and fairness . SIEMENS ENERGY  
has the right to terminate the agreement if the 
changed circumstances justify the termination from 
economic standpoint, with the notice period of 30 
(thirty)  days, but only if SIEMENS ENERGY  attempted 
to reach an agreement with the ORDERER as to the 
change of terms of the agreement . If SIEMENS 
ENERGY  would like to terminate the agreement, 
SIEMENS ENERGY  has t o notify the ORDERER 
thereof immediately upon becoming aware of the 
scope of the above mentioned  event . 
 
4. Notwithstanding any other rights, SIEMENS 
ENERGY  has the right to immediately terminate the 
agreement without any notice period, as follows :  
 
a) if the Supplies , or the commencement or the 
continuation of rendering of services is not possible 
due to reasons for which the ORDERER is liable, 
or if the ORDERER delays with the performance of 
its obligations upon expiry of adequate additional period for fulfillment ; or 
 
 
b) if there are doubts about financial capacities of 
the ORDERER i.e. if the ORDERER, at SIEMENS 
ENERGY ’s request, does not make the advance 
payment within agreed period or if the ORDERER 
does not provide requested security prior to the 
Supplies ; or  
 
c) if the bankruptcy over the ORDERER’ s assets  
initiated or if the request to commence the 
bankruptcy proceedings is rejected due to lack of 
sufficient assets ; or 
 
d) if the postponement of time of Supplies , due to 
circumstances referenced in Article IV paragraph 3 
and 4 , exceeds more than one half of the originally 
agreed period of delivery, but not less than  6 (six) 
months . 
 
e) if the ORDER ER comes under the direct or 
indirect control of any competitor of Siemens 
Energy;  
In any case, and n otwithstanding any other rights it 
may have under the agreement , SIEMENS ENERGY  
may terminate the agreement  if the execution of the 
Supplies have been suspended for more than 180 
(hundred and eighty) calendar days due to the 
ORDERER’s breach of agreement, or the suspension 
of the Supplies due to any other reason not 
attributable to SIEMENS ENERGY lasts more than 12 
(twelve) months per event.  
SIEMENS ENERGY  may even terminate a partially 
executed agreement, for the remaining part of the 
Supplies , due to reasons referenced in paragraph 4 of 
this Article . 
 
In case of termination of agreement by SIEMENS 
ENERGY  pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Article , or 
any other termination which occurred due to the 
reasons not attributable to SIEMENS ENERGY,  the 
ORDERER shall pay  for the products and  / or 
rendered services supplied until the moment of 
termination  (including , inter alia, profit  and the 
unavoidable costs which reasonably occurred as a 
result of termination) , and such payment shall not 
affect any  eventual  claims for damages by SIEMENS 
ENERGY .  
 
In any case, in  the event of the cessation of the validity 
of the agreement , irrespective of the cause  of 
cessation , SIEMENS ENERGY may charge to the 
ORDERER  the already performed or partially 
performed deliveries or services, including those not 
yet accepted , and preparation works accomplished by  
SIEMENS ENERGY . Instead of the due payment, 
SIEMENS ENERGY is entitled to request the return of 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 13 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
the delivered goods  and parts of the Supplies  at his 
discretion.   
 
Any other liability for damages of  SIEMENS ENERGY  
in case of termination,  which exceeds the scope and 
limits provided for in this Article or this General Terms 
and Conditions , shall be excluded.  For the avoidance 
of doubt, the ORDERER is not authorized to terminate 
or cancel this agreement with SIEMENS ENERGY in 
any other cases other than the cases stipulated in this 
Article  and General Terms and Conditions  (and under 
the conditions stated in this article and General Terms 
and Conditions ), unless otherwise is explicitly stated 
in the agreement, whereas  any right to terminate the 
agreement for convenience of the ORDERER is 
excluded  in particular . 
 
5. Nowithstanding any other rights under the 
agreement, SIEMENS ENERGY may suspend 
performance of its obligations under the agreement if 
(i) the ORDERER  fails to perform those of its 
obligations necessary for SIEMENS ENERGY  to 
provide the Supplies , or (iii) the ORDERER  otherwise 
materially breaches the agreement . 
 
If SIEMENS ENERGY suspends the agreement , or a 
part thereof, in accordance with the previous  clause  or 
in the event the ORDERER  suspends the agreement  
without the express written agreement of SIEMENS 
ENERGY , the ORDERER  shall become immediately 
liable to pay SIEMENS ENERGY  for all parts of the 
Supplies  already provided.  The ORDERER  shall 
further reimburse SIEMENS ENERGY  all reasonable 
additional costs and expenses incurred as a result of 
such suspension . Any contractual dates shall be 
extended for a reasonable period to over come the 
effects of the suspension.  
 
XIII. Other liabilities  
 
1. SIEMENS ENERGY  liability towards the 
ORDERER , regardless of its legal basis,  is limited to a 
maximum of 10% (ten percent) of the individual 
contract value . The liability of SIEMENS ENERGY  
towards the ORDERER for negligence, indirect and/or 
consequential damage,  lost benefits,  damages on 
assets as well as for loss of anticipated savings, 
interruption of production,  lost profit,  financial loss,  
loss of information and data and loss of interest and 
damages incurred by claims of third parties  or claims 
arising from ORDERER’s contracts with third parties, 
or for any other ind irect / consequential damages  is 
completely excluded . This provision will not be applied 
in those cases in which lia bility cannot be excluded or 
limited by law, such as damage caused by willful  
misconduct, gross negligence, death or physical 
injury.   
 
2. The aforementioned provisions , if applicable,  are 
valid also in favor of sub -deliverers/sub -contractors of SIEMENS ENERGY , who have to execute the 
agreement, as well as for suppliers . 
 
3. If the ORDERER does not act according to 
possible conditions for installation, putting the objects 
into operation  and use (e.g. in instruction manual ), any 
SIEMENS ENERGY ’s liability towards the ORDERER 
for damages  or other expenses  is excluded .  
 
XIV. Confidentiality  and Data Protection  
 
1. The ORDERER shall hold confidential any 
information to which the ORDERER has access during 
the business cooperation with SIEMENS ENERGY  
and shall not, without prior written approval of 
SIEMENS ENERGY , disclose information related to or 
in connection with the business cooperation between 
SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER to 
unauthorized persons or any third party , and shall 
particularly  not disclose  such information to any direct 
or indirect market competitors of SIEMENS ENERGY . 
 
2. The term «information to which the ORDERER has 
access during the business cooperation with 
SIEMENS ENERGY », includes, but is not limited to 
designs, plans, specimen, equipment, reports of 
studies, drawings, schedules, specifications, technical 
data, data base, any form of software , documents and 
all other correspondence between SIEMENS  and the 
ORDERER related to the mutual business 
cooperation .  
 
3. SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER shall not 
be liable for disclosure or use of confidential 
information which : 
a) already are or shall become known to the public, 
except by breach  confidentiality obligations ; or  
 
b) have to be disclosed pursuant to the law on the 
basis  of request of the authorized body . 
 
If the ORDERER breaches the confidentiality 
obligation from this Article, the ORDERER shall be 
liable for any damage, without any limitations, which 
occurred to SIEMENS ENERGY  as a consequence of 
breach of the confidentiality.   
 
4. The ORDERER is obliged, in connection with the 
confidentiality obligation, to bind its representatives, 
employees, associates and assistants to the 
confidentiality obligation, through employment 
contract, internal regulations or in some similar legally 
acceptable manner .  
 
5. The confidentiality obligation shall remain in force 
during 5 (five) years from termination of business 
cooperation between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the 
ORDERER . 
 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 14 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
6. ORDERER  shall comply with the statutory and other 
applicable provisions relating to protection of personal 
data. The ORDERER  is obliged to create the 
prerequisites required by law (e.g. to obtain 
declaration of consents) to enable SIEMENS 
ENERGY  to perform the Supplies, works or services  
without any breach of law. The ORDERER  is advised 
to take appropriate measures – as far as possible – to 
prevent access of SIEMENS ENERGY  to personal 
data or trade secrets of the ORDERER  while providing 
the Works. In the event that it cannot be prevented that 
SIEMENS ENERGY  is grante d access to personal 
data of the ORDERER , the ORDERER  is obliged to 
inform SIEMENS ENERGY  in due time before the 
Works are performed. The ORDERER  and SIEMENS 
ENERGY  shall then agree on the actions to be taken.  
 
7. If ORDERER  acts as controller processing personal 
data of SIEMENS ENERGY for its own purposes, 
ORDERER  shall comply with applicable laws including 
data privacy law. ORDERER  shall maintain and 
implement administrative, technical, and physical 
safeguards to protect personal data from loss, misuse, 
unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, or 
destruction to the extent as required by applicable law.  
In the event of a data breach involving SIEMENS 
ENERGY’ s or its subcontractor’s personal data, 
ORDERER  as controller sha ll notify the competent 
data privacy authority and the affected data subject as 
required by law. In addition, ORDERER  shall inform 
SIEMENS ENERGY immediately of such compromise 
both via its SIEMENS ENERGY Point of Contact and 
via email to dataprotection@siemens -energy.com.  
 
XV. Court jurisdiction and applicable law  
 
1. Disputes and misunderstandings between the 
parties shall be settled amicably . 
 
In case the parties shall not be able to settle a dispute 
amicably, all disputes arising out of agreement 
concluded between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the 
ORDERER  shall be finally settled by the  competent  
court in Zagreb . 
 
2. The substantive law of the Republic of Croatia is 
applicable to contractual relations regulate d by these 
General Conditions of  the Supply  for Products and 
Services, agreements and  / or other additional 
arrangements  concluded in writing between 
SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER, with the 
exclusion of commercial customs and practices (trade 
usages ), conflict of law rules of the private 
international law as well as  provisions of the Vienna 
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of 
Goods of 1980 . 
 
3. In the event of any changes in Legislation (as 
defined below), an enactment of any new Legislation, 
changes in generally accepted interpretation or application of any Legislation, each after the signature 
of the contract, SIEMENS ENERGY  shall be entitled 
to an adequate extension of the time for delivery, an 
adequate adjustment of the price reflecting the 
increased cost incurred by SIEMENS ENERGY , the 
payment terms and all other relevant provisions of t he 
contract. Except for mere adjustments of the price , 
SIEMENS ENERGY shall provide the ORDERER  with 
a quotation and the ORDERER  shall issue a variation 
order in accordance with this Article XV which shall be 
deemed issued after elapse of further three days 
period . Legislation means any statute, ordinance, law, 
order, regulation, by -law, directive, decree, decision 
having the force of law, taxes, tariffs, customs or 
duties (irrespective of whether originally to be borne 
by SIEMENS ENERGY  or not), which affect cost or 
performance of SIEMENS ENERGY ’s obligations 
under the contract  (irrespective of whether such 
changes are imposed in the country of final destination 
of Supplies or some other country ). 
Notwithstanding the above, i n case, during the offer 
validity, new or increased tariffs or customs adversely 
impact the price of SIEMENS ENERGY ’s scope of 
supply/services, including the price of subcontractor 
materials and/or services entailed therein, SIEMENS 
ENERGY is allowed to adjust the price in line with such 
increase.  
 
4. If engineering , or any other standards and codes 
are listed in the technical specifications  (if those are 
agreed ), SIEMENS ENERGY  shall comply only with 
those  valid and the content thereof  at the date of 
agreement . In the event that, at any time, mandatory 
local codes or standards in the country where the 
Supplies  are executed stipulate more stringent or 
onerous requirements with regard to the Supplies , the 
ORDERER  is obliged to timely inform SIEMENS 
ENERGY  accordingly , whereas the subclause 1  of this 
clause  shall apply.  
 
 
 
XVI. Compliance with Customs  Regulations  
 
1.  If ORDERER  transfers goods (hardware and/ or 
software and/ or technology as well as corresponding 
documentation, regardless of the mode of provision) 
delivered by SIEMENS ENERGY  or works and 
services (including all kinds of technical support) 
performed by SIEMENS ENERGY  to a third party , the 
ORDERER  shall comply with all applicable national 
and international (re -) export control regulations. In 
any event of such transfer of goods, works and 
services , the  ORDERER shall comply with the (re -
)export control regulations o f the Republic of Croatia, 
of the European Union and of the United States of 
America.  
2. Prior to any transfer of goods, works and services 
provided by SIEMENS ENERGY  to a third party the 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 15 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
ORDERER  shall in particular check  and guarantee by 
appropriate measures that  
- There will be no infringement of an embargo imposed 
by the Republic of Croatia, European Union, by the 
United States of America and/ or by the United Nations 
by such transfer, by arranging  of contracts concerning 
those goods, works and services or by provision of 
other economic resources in connection with those 
goods, works and services, also considering the 
limitations of domestic business and prohibitions of by -
passing those embargos;   
- Such goods, works and services are not intended for 
use in connection with armaments, nuclear technology 
or weapons, if and to the extent such use is subject to 
prohibition or authorization, unless required 
authorization is provided;  
- The regulations of all applicable Sanctioned Party 
Lists of the Republic of Croatia, European Union and 
the United States of America concerning the trading 
with entities, persons and organizations listed therein 
are considered.  
3. If required to enable authorities or SIEMENS  
ENERGY  to conduct export control checks, the 
ORDERER , upon request by SIEMENS ENERGY , 
shall promptly provide SIEMENS ENERGY  with all 
information pertaining to the particular end customer, 
the particular destination and the particular intended 
use of goods, works and services provided by 
SIEMENS ENERGY , as well as any export control 
restrictions existing.  
 
4. The ORDERER  shall indemnify and hold harmless 
SIEMENS ENERGY  from and against claim, 
proceeding, action, fine, loss, coat and damages 
arising out or relating to any noncompliance with 
export control regulations by the ORDERER , and the 
ORDERER  shall compensate SIEMENS ENERGY  for 
all damages  and expenses resulting thereof.  
 
5.  The following clause shall apply if and to the extent 
(i) SIEMENS ENERGY supplies any goods or 
technology to the ORDERER  in the course of the 
execution of the contract, (ii) such supplied goods or 
technology are or refer to goods listed in the Annexes 
set out in Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 and 
Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended and 
(iii) and the suppl y takes place from the EU to a third 
country except for partner countries according to 
Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8g 
EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended:  
 
- SIEMENS ENERGY hereby prohibits to the 
ORDERER , and the ORDERER  agrees, not to re -
export and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia 
or Belarus or for use in Russia or Belarus any supplied 
goods (hardware and/or software and/or technology and related documentation, regardless of the mode of 
provision) sold, supplied, transferred or exported by 
SIEMENS ENERGY to the ORDERER  under the 
contract.  
 
- SIEMENS ENERGY hereby prohibits the ORDERER  
to, and the ORDERER  agrees not to, use (including 
sublicensing, selling and/or transferring) in connection 
with goods intended for sale, supply, transfer, or 
export, directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for 
use in Russia or Belarus, any intellectual property 
rights, trade secrets, materials and/ or other 
information protected by intellectual property rights or 
trade secrets that are licensed, sold, transferred, or 
otherwise provided to the ORDERER  under the 
contract. By the foregoing provisions, no rights are 
granted to the ORDERER , with respect to intellectual 
property rights, trade secrets or other information, in 
addition to any rights otherwise explicitly granted by 
the contract.  
 
SIEMENS ENERGY shall be entitled to terminate the 
contract by written notice in the event of a breach by 
the ORDERER  of the obligation pursuant to this Article  
XVI, subpoint 5 . Upon termination, the ORDERER  
shall pay to SIEMENS ENERGY all costs and 
damages incurred by SIEMENS ENERGY from such 
termination. In any case, the ORDERER  shall pay  
SIEMENS ENERGY liquidated damages in the 
amount of 20 % (twenty per cent) of the purchase 
price/delivered goods value.  
 
Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove in the 
previous subpoint, the ORDERER  shall indemnify and 
hold harmless SIEMENS ENERGY in full from and 
against any claim, proceeding, action, fine, loss, cost 
and damage asserted by public authorities or other 
third parties against SIEMENS ENERGY arising out of 
or relating to a breach by the  ORDERER  of the 
obligations under this Article XVI, subpoint 5  and the 
ORDERER  shall compensate SIEMENS ENERGY for 
all losses and expenses incurred resulting thereof.  
 
 
 
 
XVII. Anti-Corruption Clause  
 
1. If the negotiations or the contract itself can be 
linked to any form of corruptive conduct pursuant to 
the Croatian anti -corruption legislation that has or 
could have influenced the conduct of the parties to the 
contract, the agreement shall be deemed null and 
void.  
 
2. In case corruptive conduct can be linked to the 
execution or supervision of the respective contract, the 
innocent party may withdraw from the contract before 
its expiration with an immediate effect and without any 
further obligations, including liability for damages.  
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 16 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
 
XVIII. Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment  
 
1. Any costs incurred through the collection, recycling 
or removal of recycling waste of electrical and 
electronic equipment (hereinafter referred to as “EE 
equipment”) not categorized  as household equipment 
shall be borne by the ORDERER . In case that the 
ORDERER  is not the end user of the EE equipment, 
he shall ensure that this obligation is passed on to the 
end user.   
 
2. The ORDERER  shall upon request by SEIEMENS 
ENERGY  submit all information and documentation 
required by SIEMENS ENERGY  in order to  comply 
with the regulations on EE equipment.   
 
3. ORDERER  shall indemnify SIEMENS ENERGY of 
all costs and damages incurred due to non -adherence 
to the provision of this Article  XVII.  
 
XIX. EHS, Handling with Azbestos and other 
dangerous materials  
 
1. Whenever SIEMENS ENERGY  is supposed to 
provide fitting, assembly or other similar services at 
the site, the ORDERER  shall ensure that the works 
sites or construction sites, including the air and all 
parts of the equipment where the services are taking 
place, are free of asbestos and other dangerous 
materials. Else, SIEMENS ENERGY  is entitled to 
defer the beginning of the works or suspend them until 
the ORDERER  ensures compliance with the said 
conditions. It shall be deemed that the air is free of 
asbestos if the concentration in the air does not 
exceed 1000 fibres per m3. Upon SIEMENS 
ENERGY ’s request, the ORDERER  shall be able to 
prove compliance with these standards with adequate 
measurements that may be as well ordered by the 
ORDERER . 
 
2. The measurements shall be as a rule performed 
by a duly authorized and independent institute 
according to the rules acceptable for SIEMENS 
ENERGY . 
 
3. The removal of asbestos or other dangerous 
materials shall only be performed by a duly qualified 
company. The costs of such removal shall be borne 
by the ORDERER .  
 
4. If SIEMENS ENERGY  discovers hazardous 
materials (including asbestos), environmentally 
hazardous substances, geological or geothermal 
conditions, archaeological findings or any other local 
environmental conditions which have an adverse 
effect on the Supplies, execution of works or services 
by SIEMENS ENERGY , the ORDERER  shall be liable 
for any required remediation and shall also reimburse 
SIEMENS ENERGY  for any reasonable additional costs and expenses. The ORDERER  shall, at its 
expense, provide containers complying with all legal 
and regulatory requirements and shall handle, store 
and dispose of hazardous waste in accordance with 
the applicable laws.  
 
 
5. SIEMENS ENERGY  reserves the right to employ 
any safety measures and perform partially or in whole 
any agreed works even though the conditions from 
this Section are not fulfilled.  
 
6. ORDERER obliges to comply with all applicable 
laws and regulations regarding safety at work, 
including the global SIEMENS ENERGY  EHS 
standards, as well as to enforce the principles of the 
„Zero Harm Culture“ program.  SIEMENS ENERGY 
shall not be obliged to provide the Supplies or execute 
any works or service on Site in unhealthy or 
dangerous surroundings , which is not in accordance 
with the applicable health and safety requirements.  
 
SIEMENS ENERGY shall comply with the 
ORDERER’s site rules and regulations when 
performing Supplies on site, provided that such rules 
are in accordance with the applicable laws, and that  
ORDERER inform ed SIEMENS ENERGY, in writing, 
of all relevant site rules and regulations in force at the 
premises within a reasonable period of time prior to 
performance of the Supplies  on Site.  
 
XX. Final provisions  
 
1. If any of the provisions  of these General Conditions 
of the Supply  for Products and Services, agreements 
and / or other additional arrangements  concluded in 
writing between SIEMENS ENERGY  and the 
ORDERER become unlawful , invalid or unenforceable  
in any way pursuant to the applicable law, this shall 
not affect the legality, validity or enforceability of other 
provisions  of these General Conditions of the Supply 
for Products and Services, agreements and  / or other 
additional  arrangements  concluded in writing between 
the parties. SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER 
shall replace any such unlawful, invalid or 
unenforceable  provision with the provision which 
content shall be adjusted to the valid legal regulations . 
 
2. SIEMENS ENERGY  shall not be obligated to fulfill 
the contract  if such fulfillment is prevented by any 
impediments arising out of national or international 
foreign trade or customs requirements or any 
embargoes or other sanctions.  
 
3. SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER hereby 
confirm that none of the parties is any way solicited 
and / or enticed, on the basis of any statement, 
condition, warranty, promise of award or personal 
benefit, force or obligation, to enter into agreement on 
the Supplies  of products and  / or services, which are 
April 2024 edition  
 
General Terms and Conditions for the Supply of Products and Services  
Siemens Energy d.o.o.                                                                   March  2025 edition  
 
Page 17 of 17 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 5                                                                               Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
  
not expressly determined by the agreement which 
regulates all rights and obligations of SIEMENS 
ENERGY  and the ORDERER.  
 
4. Oral agreements between SIEMENS ENERGY  
and the ORDERER shall not be valid, unless 
confirmed in writing by authorized representatives of  
both SIEMENS ENERGY  and the ORDERER . 
 
5. Subsequent  changes and amendments of the 
contract  shall be valid only if confirmed by authorized 
representatives of  both SIEMENS ENERGY  and 
accepted by the ORDERER in writing . 
 
6. These  General Conditions  are published on the 
internet page of SIEMENS ENERGY  (www.siemens -
energy.com ) and shall enter into force on the day of 
their publishing and shall replace previously valid 
General Conditions.  