 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase Siemens Energy d.o.o .    1                                                        February  2025 edition  
 
 
 
Letter of  
to 
Our reference  Siemens Energy d.o.o.  
Management Board: Boris Miljavac, Managing director;  
Laura Musić, Financial director  
 
Registered office: Slavonska avenija 1a , Zagreb; IBAN: Zagrebačka banka d.d. HR7523600001102819568.  
The company is entered in the court register of the Commercial Court in Zagreb under no. 081265238.  
Capital stock: EUR 2.700.000,00 . Company number 5152984, VAT ID HR18960883235 , Personal Identification Number: 18960883235  
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PURCHASE  
Siemens Energy  d.o.o. , Slavonska avenija 1A , Zagreb  
(PIN: 18960883235 ) 
 
February  2025 edition  
 
 
 
1. Scope of General Terms and Conditions  
 
1.1. These General Terms and Conditions of Purchase shall apply to all orders (deliveries of goods 
and services) of Siemens Energy  d.o.o. , Slavonska avenija 1A , 10000 Zagreb , PIN: 
18960883235  and affiliated companies of Siemens Energy (hereinafter referred to as 'Buyer' or 
‘SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ or Company)  to Supplier  (any party which supplies products, services to 
the SIEMENS  ENERGY ).    
 
 
2. Purchase Order  
 
2.1. These General Terms and Conditions of Purchase shall become an integral part of the  contract 
upon acceptance of an order by the Supplier . Orders  must be in writing and duly signed to be 
valid. The Buyer may also place orders via Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) provided this has 
been expressly agreed between SIEMENS  ENERGY  and the Supplier  in writing. Any 
amendments to the order or oral agreements shall be valid only if SIEMENS  ENERGY  (Buyer) 
confirms them in writing.  
 
2.2. The Supplier  may use subcontractors to perform all or a part of its duties under an order if it has 
obtained an express prior approval of SIEMENS  ENERGY . 
 
 
3. Confirmation of Order, General Terms and Conditions of the Supplier  
 
3.1. The acceptance of a purchase order shall be immediately confirmed to SIEMENS  ENERGY . A 
purchase order may also be confirmed via Electronic Data Exchange (EDI) provided this has 
been expressly agreed in writing between SIEMENS  ENERGY  and the Supplier . SIEMENS  
ENERGY  reserves the right to cancel an order at no cost to SIEMENS ENERGY  unless it has 
received from the Supplier  a proper order confirmation within a reasonable period, but no later 
than two weeks after the date of the order. Such cancellation is deemed on time if it is sent to 
the Supplier  before SIEMENS  ENERGY  receives the purchase order confirmation.  
 
3.2. If the purchase order confirmation deviates from the order, the Supplier  shall clearly state any 
such deviation in the purchase order confirmation.  SIEMENS ENERGY  shall only be bound by 
such deviation if it has expressly accepted it in writing. An unconditional acceptance by 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  of the goods delivered by the Supplier  shall not be considered as 
acceptance of any such deviation.  
 
3.3. Unless accepted in writing by SIEMENS  ENERGY , the Supplier  's general terms and conditions 
shall not become binding upon SIEMENS  ENERGY . Any reference in the order to the Supplier 's 
quotation documents by SIEMENS  ENERGY  does not imply acceptance of the Supplier 's terms 
and conditions.  
 
3.4. Any terms and conditions of the Supplier  or any of its subcontractors made available in paper 
or digital form together with the delivery of software products shall not be binding upon 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   2                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
SIEMENS  ENERGY , unless SIEMENS  ENERGY  gave its prior special written approval.  This is 
valid particularly if SIEMENS  ENERGY  or any third parties attributable to SIEMENS  ENERGY  
(e.g. employees, consultants, customers of SIEMENS  ENERGY ) commit an act that, pursuant 
to those terms and conditions, constitutes a basis for the conclusion of a contract, or if software 
registration or other cards are sent to the Supplier . 
 
4. Delivery Period, Consequences of Delay  
 
4.1. Unless expressly agreed otherwise, the period of delivery or performance shall commence on 
the day the order is issued, unless another beginning is expressly agreed upon.  If no such period 
has been agreed, the Supplier  shall deliver goods and services without delay. The relevant point 
in time for the delivery of goods shall be the date of receipt at the place of destination specified 
by SIEMENS ENERGY  (“place of use”). If the delivery involves erection or installation, the 
relevant point in time shall be the date of acceptance  of the goods upon the completion of the 
erection or installation . When foreseeable delays in delivery occur, the Supplier  shall 
immediately inform SI EMENS  ENERGY  on the matter and request SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ 
decision. In that event, the period of delivery of goods or services shall be extended only if 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  has explicitly recognised such extension in writing.  
 
4.2. SIEMENS  ENERGY  is entitled to charge a penalty of 0.5%, however, not more than 10% of the 
overall contract gross value for each calendar day of delay in delivery that already begun.  Such 
penalty is independent of the Supplier ’s fault and any proof of damage. SIEMENS  ENERGY  
reserves the right to claim damages exceeding the amount of the penalty. In the event of a 
delay, SIEMENS  ENERGY  is entitled to withdraw from the contract after expiry of a reasonable 
additional time -limit for delivery granted to the  Supplier . This applies even if SIEMENS  ENERGY  
used to accept delayed partial deliveries without reservation before. In the case of a time -
sensitive contract, SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall not be obliged to grant an additional time -limit for 
delivery.  
 
4.3. When it can be foreseen that the Supplier  will fail to properly deliver or perform by the agreed 
date, SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall be entitled to take all measures necessary to prevent an 
imminent delay in delivery / performance at the Supplier ’s cost and risk.  
 
4.4. In the case of early delivery, SIEMENS  ENERGY  reserves the right to charge the Supplier  any 
extra cost, e.g. warehouse and insurance costs, and to effect payment in accordance with the 
agreed delivery date.  Until the agreed date, SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall only bear the 
responsibility of a depositary.  
 
4.5. The Supplier  agrees to submit its financial and independent credit reports at the request of 
SIEMENS ENERGY (for example “D&B”, BON -2, commercial bank certificates, etc.) to monitor 
creditworthiness. If SIEMENS ENERGY determines, based on the submitted or publicly 
available information, that there has been a significant change in creditworthiness, if bankruptcy 
or liquidation proceedings have been initiated against the Supplier , if there is a change in the 
Supplier 's ownership structure, or if the Supplier refuses to provide the requested information, 
SIEMENS ENERGY has the right to cancel the agreement in whole or in part without any 
consequences. The Supplier  must immediately inform SIEMENS ENERGY about any such 
circumstances.  
 
 
5. Shipment, Delivery, Passing of Risk, Export Control  
 
5.1. In the case of deliveries involving erection or installation and in the case of services, the risk 
passes upon acceptance  (for the aforementioned deliveries, the risk passes upon completion 
of the erection or installation) ; for deliveries not involving erection or installation the risk passes 
upon receipt by SIEMENS  ENERGY  at the place of destination. If the registered office of the 
Supplier  and the place of delivery are within the EU, DDP (place of destination) Incoterms® 
2020 shall apply. If in this case delivery to con struction sites or directly to third parties is agreed, 
the Supplier  shall bear the costs and risk of unloading the goods. If the registered office of the 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   3                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
Supplier  or the place of delivery are outside the EU, DAP (place of destination) Incoterms® 20 20 
shall apply. If in this case delivery to construction sites or directly to third parties is agreed, D PU 
(place of destination) Incoterms® 20 20 shall apply.  
 
5.2. Partial as well as over -deliveries and under -deliveries are only permissible after obtaining 
SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ express written approval. Goods are delivered to the goods receiving 
department of the place designated for delivery at the times agreed for the receipt of goods in 
the order. Each delivery shall be accompanied by a delivery note detailing the net weight  per 
item and the complete purchase order number  and the delivery address . 
 
5.3. All requirements by SIEMENS  ENERGY  regarding mode of transportation, carrier and shipment 
rules must be strictly adhered to.  Unless SIEMENS  ENERGY  has required a particular mode of 
transportation, goods must be dispatched at the lowest possible cost, failing which any adverse 
consequences and additional cost shall be borne by the Supplier . Additional cost arising from 
the need to meet the delivery date by way of expedited shipment shall be borne by the Supplier . 
Should the agree d payment instruments (e.g. letter of credit) and shipping documents, in 
particular purchase order data, be missing or incomplete, SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall be entitled 
to refuse acceptance at the Supplier ’s cost and risk.  
 
 
5.4.       Export Control and Foreign Trade Data Regulations  
 
The Supplier shall comply with all applicable export control, customs and foreign trade 
regulations (“Foreign Trade Regulations”). In particular, the Supplier represents and warrants 
that none of its products nor its services provided under the contract co ntain products and/or 
services restricted for import under the Foreign Trade Regulations applicable to  SIEMENS 
ENERGY, including but not limited to Council Regulations (EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 2022/263 
or 765/2006, each as amended, and import restrictions  enforced by the U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection. The Supplier shall advise SIEMENS ENERGY in writing within two weeks of 
receipt of the order - and in case of any changes without undue delay - of any information and 
data required by SIEMENS ENERGY to c omply with all Foreign Trade Regulations in case of 
export and import as well as re -export, including without limitation:  
- all applicable export list numbers, including the Export Control Classification Number 
according to the U.S. Commerce Control List (ECCN); and  
- the statistical commodity code according to the current commodity classification for foreign 
trade statistics and the HS (Harmonized System) coding including the respective tariff basis on 
which the classification of the product has been performed (e.g. EU Combined Nomenclature, 
TARIC, US HTS); and  
- the country of origin (non -preferential origin) as well as the region of origin, if applicable for the 
respective country of origin; proof of origin (e.g. Packing -List, Delivery Note, BOL, GAI); and  
- upon request of SIEMENS ENERGY : preferential statement including Supplier’s declaration 
of preferential origin (in case of European suppliers) or preferential certificates (in case of non -
European suppliers); and  
- upon request of SIEMENS ENERGY: evidence of the country of origin of the iron and steel 
inputs used for the processing of the products.  
Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage incurred by SIEMENS ENERGY due 
to any breach of the obligations according to this section 5.4.  
 
5.5        Ban on re -exports to Russia („No -Russia -Clause“)  
 
The following clause shall apply if and to the extent (i) SIEMENS ENERGY supplies any goods 
or technology to the Supplier in the course of the execution of the contract, (ii) such supplied 
goods or technology are or refer to goods listed in the Annexes set  out in Article 12 g EU 
Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art. 8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended and (iii) and the 
supply takes place from the EU to a third country except for partner countries according to 
Article 12 g EU Regulation No. 833/2014 and Art.  8g EU Regulation No. 765/2006 as amended:  
- SIEMENS ENERGY hereby prohibits to the Supplier, and the Supplier agrees, not to re -export 
and/or forward, directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for use in Russia or Belarus any 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   4                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
supplied goods (hardware and/or software  and/or  technology and related documentation, 
regardless of the mode of provision)  sold, supplied, transferred or exported  by SIEMENS 
ENERGY to the Supplier under the contract.  
- SIEMENS ENERGY hereby prohibits the  Supplier to, and the  Supplier agrees not to, use 
(including sublicensing, selling and/or transferring) in connection with goods intended for sale, 
supply, transfer, or export, directly or indirectly, to Russia or Belarus or for use i n Russia or 
Belarus, any intellectual property rights, trade secrets, materials and/ or other information 
protected by intellectual property rights or trade secrets that are licensed, sold, transferred, or 
otherwise provided to the  Suppli er under the contract. The Parties agree that, by the foregoing 
provisions, no rights are granted to the Supplier, with respect to intellectual property rights, trade 
secrets or other information, in addition to any rights otherwise explicitly granted by t he contract.  
- SIEMENS ENERGY shall be entitled to terminate the contract by written notice in the event of 
a breach by the Supplier of the obligation pursuant to this Article 5.5.  of this General Terms and 
Conditions of Purchase.  Upon termination, the Supplier shall pay to SIEMENS ENERGY all 
costs and damages incurred by SIEMENS ENERGY from such termination. In any case, the 
Supplier shall pay  SIEMENS ENERGY liquidated damages in the amount of 20 % (twenty per 
cent) of the purchase price/delivered goods value.  
- Notwithstanding the provision hereinabove in the previous subpoint , the Supplier shall 
indemnify and hold harmless SIEMENS ENERGY in full from and against any claim, proceeding, 
action, fine, loss, cost and damage asserted by public authorities or other third parties against 
SIEMENS ENERGY arising out of or relating to a  breach by the Supplier of the obligations under 
this Article 5.5.  of this General Terms and Conditions of Purchase and the Supplier shall 
compensate SIEMENS ENERGY for all losses and expe nses incurred resulting thereof.  
 
5.6. SIEMENS ENERGY shall not be obligated to fulfill contract if such fulfillment is prevented by 
any impediments arising out of national or international foreign trade or customs requirements 
or any embargos or other sanctions.  
 
5.7. Direct supplies to SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ customers shall be made in neutral packaging and with 
shipping documents in the name and on behalf of SIEMENS  ENERGY , where necessary and 
at the sole request of SIEMENS  ENERGY . The Supplier  shall provide SIEMENS  ENERGY  with 
a copy of these delivery notes.  
 
5.8. Retention of title of whatsoever nature by the Supplier  is invalid.  
 
5.9. Where prices are quoted without packaging, packaging shall be charged at cost price and stated 
separately in the invoices.  Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the value of packaging 
material returned by SIEMENS  ENERGY  to the Supplier  for reuse shall be reimbursed by the 
Supplier . The Supplier  is liable for any damage caused by improper packaging. When delivering 
hazardous goods, the Supplier  shall comply with all applicable statutory provisions, in particular 
those relating to the type and marking of packaging and to the means of transport to be used.  
 
5.10.  For the performance of works and services under this contract the Contractor shall only use 
employees who are not listed in the relevant national, European and US -American sanctions 
lists based on foreign trade legislation.  
 
5.11.  The Supplier  must perform the works by himself. The Supplier  may delegate works in partial to 
a third party (i.e. subcontractor or  vicarious agents). The third party performing such works must 
be approved in writing by SIEMENS  ENERGY  before such assignment. The  Supplier  must notify 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  in writing of any involvement of a further third party and provide all 
documents required to approve respective third party.  
 
 
6. Suspension, Cancellation  
 
6.1. SIEMENS  ENERGY  reserves the right to order the Supplier  to suspend the performance of the 
contract at any time.  If the performance of the contract is suspended for more than three months, 
the Supplier  will have to prove to SIEMENS  ENERGY  in detail that it has incurred costs resulting 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   5                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
from such suspension. However, SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall not be liable to the Supplier  for any 
loss of profits. The Supplier  may claim compensation only for such proven costs. The Supplier  
may not claim compensation for any costs incurred as a result of a suspension of less than three 
months, or, in the case of a suspension of more than three months, for the costs incurred during 
the first three months.  
 
6.2. SIEMENS  ENERGY  reserves the right to withdraw from the contract, as a whole or in part, 
irrespective of any fault on the part of the Supplier . In such a case, the Supplier  is only entitled 
to charge SIEMENS  ENERGY  for the services proved to have been performed by the date of 
withdrawal, minus all possible gains and savings arising out of or relating to the withdrawal.  
 
6.3. SIEMENS  ENERGY  also reserves the right to vary the scope of supply or services. The Supplier  
is entitled to a corresponding adjustment in the contract price.  
 
 
7. Invoicing, Set -off 
 
7.1. Invoices must indicate all purchase order details and be submitted immediately after delivery of 
goods or completion of services  to SIEMENS  ENERGY.  Invoices may be submitted  in PDF form 
to: energyeracun.rc -hr@siemens -energy.com , and the original invoices must be submitted by 
mail. E-Invoices shall be sent using the service platform “Moj-eRačun ,” in which case it is not 
necessary to submit the original invoices by mail . Copy invoices must be marked as duplicates. 
Invoices shall be worded and structured to facilitate both their comparison with the order and 
their auditing. Each invoice must show the purchase order number and the purchase order data. 
Invoices relating to deliveries of goods must be accompanied by delivery notes c onfirmed  by 
SIEMENS  ENERGY.  Invoices relating to services and installation performed shall be 
accompanied by  records  of working hours  and the acceptance protocol  confirmed by SIEMENS  
ENERGY . Invoices relating to goods requiring export authorisations shall list all marking 
requirements fulfilled. Invoices subject to international trade in goods must contain a description, 
quantity,  customs -tariff-code and net weight of goods by item.  The Supplier  must provide the 
PIN (OIB) before creating the purchase order, and at the latest before issuing the invoice , and 
the PIN (OIB ) must be indicated on the invoice. Invoices on which a PIN (OIB) is not indicated 
shall be considered invalid and will be returned to the Supplier, and it shall be considered that 
the invoice has not even been submitted.  If the Supplier ’s main office is within the EU, the 
Supplier  must provide the VAT number not later than the invoice.  If the Supplier does not have 
an PIN ( OIB), the Supplier  is obliged to submit an Excerpt from the registration court of the 
Supplier's country of residence and other appropriate documentation prescribed by law and all 
the above provisions of this Section for PIN ( OIB) apply.  
 
7.2. SIEMENS  ENERGY  reserves the right to return invoices which do not comply with its 
requirements;  in particular those  regarding purchase order data or VAT rules, unprocessed. In 
such a case, invoices are considered as not submitted. Electronic invoices will only be accepted 
if forwarded to SIEMENS  ENERGY  via EDI , or via the service “Moj eRačun”.  
 
7.3. The Supplier  is not entitled to set off claims it may have against SIEMENS  ENERGY  against 
claims SIEMENS  ENERGY  has against the Supplier .  
 
 
8. Payment Terms  
 
8.1. The period within which invoices must be paid commences with SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ 
unconditional acceptance of delivered goods or services and upon receipt of the properly issued 
invoice.  If the Supplier  is obliged to provide material tests, test records or quality control 
documents or any other documentation, deliveries and services will be regarded as fully 
performed only upon receipt of such documentation.  
 
8.2. Unless otherwise agreed, payments are to be made within 60 days net or within 30 days minus 
the discount of 3% at SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ choice.  SIEMENS  ENERGY  is entitled to withhold 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   6                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
payment until identified defects are remedied. For the duration of the commercial guarantee 
validity period , SIEMENS  ENERGY  may withhold up to 10% of the contract value as an interest -
free guarantee deposit. Payment shall not be considered as an acceptance that the goods or 
services were delivered in accordance with the contract, nor as a waiver of any rights on the 
part of SI EMENS  ENERGY . Payments are deemed to have been made in a timely manner upon 
execution of the transfer order with SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ bank by the due date of payment. The 
Supplier  bears bank charges incurred by the receiving bank. If, for any reason, an agreed 
security is not (or no longer) available, the Supplier  is obliged to provide SIEMENS  ENERGY  
with an equivalent one. In the case of advance payment, Supplier  is obliged on request of 
SIEMENS ENERGY  and before advance payment is executed, to provide Advance Payment 
Guarantee issued by eligible first -class bank, as irrevocable, unconditional and on first demand.  
 
8.3. SIEMENS  ENERGY  is entitled to set off claims of its affiliated companies against the Supplier ’s 
claims.   
SIEMENS  ENERGY  is entitled to set off claims it may have against the Supplier  against claims 
the Supplier  has against SIEMENS  ENERGY . 
 
8.4. If the Supplier changes its IBAN (bank account) or other bank data o n which it has initially 
informed SIEMENS ENERGY for the purposes of payment execution, or the Supplier’s bank 
account already listed in the SIEMENS ENERGY’s internal systems differs from the bank 
account indicated on the Supplier’s invoice, the Supplier is obliged to notify SIEMENS ENERGY 
on the respective change as soon as possible and , as an evidence  of the respective change, 
deliver to SIEMENS ENERGY at its own expense the written confirmation of the relevant bank 
institution  thereof , whereas in case of the bank account change the said confirmation shall 
confirm  that the Supplier is the owner of the new bank account. If the Supplier does not comply 
with the said obligation, in addition to its right to return the invoice pursuant to Article 7.2, 
SIEMENS ENERGY reserves the right to calculate the due date for the p ayment to the Supplier 
from the date of receipt of the written bank institution’s confirmation on the change of IBAN or 
bank data  from the Supplier , and to suspend the payment deadline until the af orementioned 
date of receipt of the respective confirmation . 
 
 
9. Acceptance, Notice of Defects, Liability for Defects, Product Liability, Intellectual 
Property Rights, Quality Assurance , Liability for Damage , Documentation Delivery  
 
9.1. The mere receipt or temporary use of deliveries and services or payments made thereof do not 
constitute an acceptance or waiver of rights by SIEMENS  ENERGY . Acknowledgements of 
receipt issued by the goods receiving department of SIEMENS  ENERGY  do not constitute a 
final acceptance by SIEMENS  ENERGY  of the goods delivered  or services performed . 
 
9.2. The goods are taken over (received) and checked as to their completeness and any visible 
defects within a reasonable time after their receipt.  If, after receipt of the goods, a defect is 
identified that could not be detected by the usual inspection upon receipt of the goods, 
SIEMENS ENERGY reserves the rights against the Supplier based on such  material and/or 
legal defects for the entire period of liability for material defects or liability under the commercial 
guarantee . When justified by the circumstances of the case, SIEMENS ENERGY shall be  
authorized to conduct only a random check  and verification of a part of the delivered goods as 
a representative sample.  If it is established  that parts of the delivered goods or services (both 
in case of a check of the entire delivery and a random check)  do not comply with SIEMENS  
ENERGY ’s requirements or  contain material and/or legal defects , SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall 
always be entitled to  reject the delivered goods or services as a whole, and not just the part 
containing the said defects . SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall notify the Supplier  of any defects detected 
as soon as possible. This Article shall apply to the delivery of services mutatis mutandis . 
 
9.3. The Supplier  is required to carry out an adequate inspection of the components provided  (e.g. 
raw materials, building materials) by SIEMENS  ENERGY  from upstream suppliers, producers 
and other third parties upon receipt in order to determine any apparent or hidden defects, and 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   7                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
to notify the  SIEMENS  ENERGY  and the respective  supplier , producer and other third party  of 
such defects without delay.  
 
9.4.  The Supplier shall be  liable to SIEMENS ENERGY for material defects in fulfilling the Supplier's 
obligations without any restrictions. Material def ects are considered to exist : 
 1) if the subject of delivery does not correspond to the description, type, quantity and quality, or 
it does not have the functionality, compatibility, interoperability and other features as determined 
in the sales contract,  
 2) if the subject of delivery is not suitable for any special purpose for which SIEMENS ENERGY 
needs it  and of which SIEMENS ENERGY informed the Supplier  at the latest at the time of 
concluding the contract and in relation to which the Supplier  gave his consent,  
 3) if the subject of delivery is not delivered with all additional equipment and instructions, 
including installation instructions, as specified in  the sales contract,  
 4) if the subject of delivery has not been delivered with updates as specified in  the sales contract,  
 5) if the subject of delivery  is not suitable for use for the purposes for which a subject of delivery 
of the same type would normally be used, taking into account the regulations of the  European 
Union and Croatia, technical standards or, if such technical standards do not exist, applicable 
codes of conduct if they exist,  
 6) if the subject of delivery does not correspond to the quality and description of the sample or 
model that the Supplier made available to SIEMENS ENERGY before concluding the contract,  
 7) if the subject of delivery is not supplied with additional equipment, including packaging, 
installation instructions or other instructions, the receipt of which SIEMENS ENERGY can 
reasonably expect,  
 8) if the  subject of  delivery does not correspond to the quantity or does not have the properties 
and other characteristics, including those related to durability, functionality, compatibility and 
safety, which are common for a subject of delivery of the same type and which SIEMENS 
ENERGY can reasonably expect with regard to the nature of the subject of delivery and taking 
into account any public statements made by the Supplier or other persons in previous stages of 
the transaction chain, including the man ufacturer, or made on their behalf, in particular in 
advertising or labelling , 
 9) if the subject of delivery is incorrectly installed or assembled, and the installation or assembly 
service forms part of the sales contract and was performed by the Supplier or the person for 
whom the Supplier  is responsible , or 
 10) if the subject of delivery which was to be installed or assembled by SIEMENS ENERGY is 
improperly  installed or assembled, and the improper installation or assembly is the result of a 
lack of instructions provided by the Supplier . 
 Within the meaning of  the provisions of this article, the “subject of delivery ” shall be considered 
as both goods and services . 
  
9.5.  In case of material defects, SIEMENS ENERGY shall always  be authorized:  
 1) to request  the Supplier to eliminate the defect,  
 2) to request the Supplier to provide  other goods or perform a new service without defect s, 
 3) demand a proportional price reduction from the Supplier,  
 4) to terminate the contract,  
 5) in any case, seek damages from the Supplier.  
 SIEMENS ENERGY has the right to freely choose between repairing and replacing goods or 
performing a new service without material defect s, as well as the right to refuse to pay any 
outstanding part of the price until the Supplier fulfils his obligations under liability for material 
defects. The costs of eliminating  defect s (which includes in particular the costs of dismantling, 
transport and reassembly) and providing  other goods or performing a new service without a 
defect shall be borne by the Supplier. Th e Supplier shall eliminate  the defects within a 
reasonable time from the moment SIEMENS ENERGY notifies the Supplier of a defect and 
without significant inconvenience to SIEMENS ENERGY. SIEMENS ENERGY is not obliged to 
pay for the normal use of the replaced goods or services during the period before their 
replacement or re -delivery.  
 
9.6. The Supplier warrants to SIEMENS ENERGY  that he will use best, appropriate and brand -new 
materials, manufacture the products adequately and in compliance with the underlying technical 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   8                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
drawings, and that it will provide for their proper installation. Furthermore, the Supplier warrants 
to SIEMENS ENERGY that, in addition to the liability for material defects in the delivered goods 
or services, he will refund the purchase price paid or replace or repair the goods or re -perform  
the service, according to the decision of  SIEMENS ENERGY, if it does not meet the required 
specifications or other requirements within the period specified below.  The commercial 
guarantee validity  period for goods  and services of the Supplier is two years , and  the commercial 
guarantee validity  period for products and services that become a fixed part of buildings or land 
is three years. After rectification of defects notified by SIEMENS ENERGY, the commercial 
guarantee validity  period for the replace ment  product s or services  begins to run anew. The 
commercial guarantee validity  period for deliveries begins to run with the erection or installation 
of the delivered products  (if the erection or installation is included in the delivery) , for services 
with their acceptance, for deliveries not involving erection or installation with their delivery to the 
place of destination, and for hidden defects with their identification. For deliveries to locations 
where SIEMENS ENERGY uses the Supplier’s goods to perform contracts outside its premises, 
the commercial guarantee validity  period begins to run with the acceptance of the services to 
be rendered by SIEMENS ENERGY to its  customer. This time  limit is deemed to be observed if 
SIEME NS ENERGY has asserted warranty claims against the Supplier within the aforesaid 
periods in writing.  The Supplier shall submit this commercial guarantee to SIEMENS ENERGY 
on a durable medium at the latest at the time of handover, and its content will meet the 
requirements of Art icle 423 (9) of the Civil Obligations Act. Failure to comply with these 
obligations shall not affect the validity of the commercial guarantee.  
 
9.7. If engineering, advisory, software or documentation services or staff are provided by the 
Supplier , the Supplier  fully guarantees the correctness and completeness of its written and 
verbal information and instructions for a period of two years after their provision.  
 
9.8. The Supplier ’s upstream Suppliers  are regarded as its agents,  for which the Supplier  is entirely 
liable.  
 
9.9. SIEMENS  ENERGY  may require the Supplier  either to immediately eliminate  defects identified 
within the above specified commercial guarantee validity  periods at the Supplier ’s expense on 
site, without any inconvenience to SIEMENS  ENERGY , or to provide replacement defect -free 
goods or services within the set deadline. SIEMENS  ENERGY  is entitled to claim all costs 
incurred in connection with the rectification of defects, which specifically includes the  costs of 
(dis)assembly  and removal , as well transport . The Supplier  shall without delay reimburse 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  for any inspection costs if an inspection has revealed defects. In the case 
of imminent danger, e.g. in order to avoid its own default, or if the Supplier  fails to rectify defects 
within a reasonable time, SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall be  entitled to acquire replacement defect -
free products , or ensure the provision of replacement services  from third parties, without prior 
notification and without prejudice to its commercial guarantee  claims against the Supplier  or to 
repair or have defective goods repaired at the Supplier ’s expense. The Supplier  shall fully 
reimburse SIEMENS  ENERGY  for the cost of such repairs, even if it exceeds the cost of repair 
made by the Supplier , without delay and following an invitation from SIEMENS  ENERGY . 
 
9.10. The Supplier is liable to SIEMENS ENERGY for legal defects in fulfilling the Supplier's 
obligations without any restrictions. With regard to legal def ects, SIEMENS ENERGY is entitled 
to (at its option):  
 1) request the Supplier to eliminate such defects , 
 2) demand a proportional reduction in the purchase price,  
 3) terminate the sales contract (if the termination does not occur by force of law),  
 4) claim damages  in any case.  
 The Supplier  shall indemnify and hold SIEMENS  ENERGY  harmless against disputes arising 
from any patent, copyright, trademark  or registered design,  etc., and guarantee SIEMENS  
ENERGY  the unrestricted use of the delivered product, without delay and following an invitation 
from SIEMENS  ENERGY . Without prejudice to other obligations, the Supplier  will indemnify and 
hold SIEMENS  ENERGY  harmless against any product liability claims raised by third parties 
against SIEMENS  ENERGY  as a result of defects in the products delivere d by the Supplier , 
without delay and following an invitation from SIEMENS  ENERGY . The Supplier  undertakes to 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   9                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
compensate SIEMENS  ENERGY  for costs incurred in connection with a defence against any 
such claim or in connection with an obligation to repair defective products, without delay and 
following an invitation from SIEMENS  ENERGY . The Supplier  will provide SIEMENS  ENERGY  
with ample proof that it has taken out adequate insurance to cover these risks.  
 
9.11. For a period of 11 years after the last delivery, the Supplier  shall provide SIEMENS  ENERGY  
upon the latter’s request with the names of the respective manufacturers, importers, upstream 
Supplier  without delay, not later however than two weeks after being requested to do so. 
Furthermore, the Supplier  will provide SIEMENS  ENERGY  immediately with appropriate 
evidence, such as production records and documents specifying production and delivery 
batches and/or the date of production and delivery to enable SIEMENS  ENERGY  to oppose 
product liability claims.  
 
9.12. Installations or products delivered by the Supplier  must have the required safety features and 
comply with the applicable safety standards (for installations or parts thereof in particular with 
those applicable at the place of destination). In any ca se, the currently valid technical regulations 
shall be complied with. In particular, the relevant EU directives, the Croatian General Product 
Safety Act and any provisions based thereon (as amended) as well as currently applicable 
versions of regulations governing  European standards, Croatian standards and similar bodies 
of rules must be complied with. Installations, systems or products delivered by the Supplier  must 
bear the CE markings required under the relevant EC directives and Croatian legislation. Upon 
delivery, the Supplier  shall provide SIEMENS  ENERGY  with EC declarations of conformity with 
short technical descriptions as well as installation instructions and installation requirements, if 
required. In addition, the Supplier  shall inform SIEMENS  ENERGY  about changes in materials, 
manufacturing procedures, Sub-supplier  parts and EC declarations of conformity in a timely 
fashion. When delivering equipment designed to be assembled by SIEMENS  ENERGY  or a 
third party, the Supplier  shall provide SIEMENS  ENERGY , to the extent necessary, with all 
documentation r equired by SIEMENS  ENERGY , including assembly schedules, data sheets, 
installation instructions, processing instructions, storage, operation and maintenance 
instructions, lists of spare and non -consumable parts etc. Delivered products have to be marked 
in Croatian and – upon SIEME NS ENERGY  ' request – in other languages as well. The operating 
requirements and instructions must be drawn up in duplicate in Croatian and - upon SIEMENS  
ENERGY  ' request - also in other languages.  
 
9.13.  The Supplier shall provide all necessary data and information in accordance with the EU Carbon 
Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) statutory regulations in a timely manner upon request 
of SIEMENS ENERGY  in order to meet the SIEMENS ENERGY’ s external obligations. CBAM 
latest developments as well as guidance can be accessed on the official Carbon Border 
Adjustment Mechanism Website; currently available under the following link:  Carbon Border 
Adjustment Mechanism (europa.eu) . 
 
9.14. SIEMENS  ENERGY  reserves the right to demand proof of the Supplier ’s quality control system 
and the Supplier ’s documentation of the quality tests executed, and to carry out audits on the 
Supplier ’s premises at any time.  The Supplier  shall compensate SIEMENS  ENERGY  for the 
costs of the audit if defects in the quality control system or errors of the documentation of quality 
tests are detected in the course of the audit.  
 
9.15. Before a necessary product warning the Supplier  will inform SIEMENS  ENERGY  immediately 
and directly in writing.  
 
9.16. SIEMENS  ENERGY  bares no responsibility for damages regarding health and safety, suffered  
by the employees of the Supplier or his Sub-suppliers , nor for the damages suffered  by the 
Supplier or damages caused to third persons by the Supplier, except in case of intent or gross 
negligence. The Supplier takes on full legal responsibility for applying all health and safety 
measures within the business frame of this Agreement.  The same applies to the Supplier's 
liability for works he subcontracted to his cooperants. The Supplier is obliged to perform all 
contracted works and activities in a way which prevents any and all reports or publications  at 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   10                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
the detriment of SIEMENS  ENERGY  and in a way which prevents disruption of the Supplier’s 
business reputation.     
 
9.17.   In case of termination of the Contract or any breach of contractual obligations, for which is 
SIEMENS ENERGY solely  responsible, SIEMENS ENERGY  is obliged to pay the Supplier all 
due amounts for the delivered contract equipment and duly performed works but is not obliged 
to reimburse any costs and / or damages incurred due to breach of contractual obligation or due 
to termination of the contract except in case of gross negligence or intent by SIEMENS 
ENERGY.  
 
9.18. Supplier is liable to SIEMENS ENERGY for every damage which could be related to this  
Contract  or could arise from it, and which incurred as the fault of the Supplier.  
 
 
10. Material provided by SIEMENS  ENERGY  
 
10.1. Material provided by SIEMENS  ENERGY  remains SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ property and is to be 
stored, labelled and managed separately free of charge.  Upon SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ request, 
the Supplier  shall confirm the receipt of material provided by SIEMENS  ENERGY . The Supplier  
may use such material only to execute orders from SIEMENS  ENERGY . The Supplier  shall 
compensate SIEMENS  ENERGY  for a diminution in value or loss. Claims for damages arising 
from the delayed provision of such material as well as any right of retention of the Supplier  shall 
be excluded.  
 
11. Special Conditions for Hardware and Software  
 
11.1. Unless otherwise agreed in the order, hardware and software always constitute a single product.  
 
11.2. If the Supplier  is to deliver software that has not been developed individually for SIEMENS  
ENERGY , the Supplier  will grant SIEMENS  ENERGY  the nonexclusive  right to use , transfer, 
utilize, distribute, copy, sublicence, edit and assign  such software  for the purpose of its  intended 
and contractually agreed use.  This right of use shall not be limited in duration in cases where 
the payment of a lump sum has been agreed for the use of such software. For software products 
which have been individually developed for SIEMENS  ENERGY , the Supplier  grants  SIEMENS  
ENERGY  an exclusive and transferable exploitation right for all usage categories that is 
unlimited in time and place and also excludes the Supplier  itself from using the software for any 
purpose. Unless otherwise agreed, the software shall be delivered together with the source code 
in its latest version. The Supplier  shall install the software  and provide a data carrier which can 
be disclosed on SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ system both in source code and object code form together 
with the related documentation (contents and structure of the data carrier, programme and data 
flow charts, test procedures, test programmes, error processing, etc.). Apart from this 
documentation, the Supplier  shall provide SIEMENS  ENERGY  with comprehensive written user 
documentation in Croatian and/or in any language selected by SIEMENS  ENERGY  and in a 
sufficient number of copies before acceptance.  
 
11.3. Software individually developed for SIEMENS  ENERGY  will be accepted explicitly in the form 
of a written acceptance protocol if it meets the agreed functional requirements specifications. 
Any repair to be performed by the Supplier  will be also included in the acceptance protocol. If 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  fails to accept delivery for four weeks after notification of readiness for 
acceptance by the Supplier , or if SIEMENS  ENERGY  denies acceptance without justification, 
the software will be deemed accepted after it has been tested free of charge for at least four 
weeks and such testing has shown satisfactory results and produced no error messages. In 
case of doubt, the mentioned period shall commence with the commercial use of the software 
by SIEMENS  ENERGY  or by SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ end customer, whichever comes last.  
 
11.4. The Supplier  undertakes to make available to SIEMENS  ENERGY  all subsequent programme 
versions in which errors have been eliminated (updates) free of charge within the commercial 
guarantee validity  period.  The Supplier  furthermore undertakes to offer SIEMENS  ENERGY  
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   11                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
software maintenance at competitive market prices for at least five years from the date of 
handover . Within the commercial guarantee validity  period, maintenance charges will be 
reduced accordingly.  
 
11.5. The Supplier  shall inform SIEMENS  ENERGY  - at the latest at the time of order confirmation - 
whether the products and services to be delivered contain open -source  components . In the 
context of this provision “ open -source  components” means any software, hardware or other 
information that is provided royalty -free by the respective licensor to any user on the basis of a 
license with the right to modify and/or to distribute  (e.g., GNU General Public License (GPL), 
the GNU Lesser GPL (LGPL), or the MIT License).  
Should the Supplier  not at all or too late inform that its products and services contain open 
source software, SIEMENS  ENERGY  is entitled to cancel the order. The Supplier  is then also 
obliged to indemnify and hold SIEMENS  ENERGY  harmless.  
 
11.6. Should the products and services delivered by the Supplier  contain open -source components, 
the Supplier  shall comply with all applicable open source  license terms and shall grant all those 
rights to SIEMENS  ENERGY  and provide all information which SIEMENS  ENERGY  needs in 
order to comply itself with the applicable license terms. In particular, the Supplier  must deliver 
to SIEMENS  ENERGY  promptly after the order is confirmed the following:  
 
• The complete source code of the relevant open source software, including scripts and 
information regarding its generating environment insofar as the applicable open source 
conditions require this.  
• A schedule of all open source files used, indicating the relevant license, its version and 
including a copy of the complete text of such license and including a reference to copyright 
and/or author -ship. Such schedule must have an understandable structure and contain a 
table of contents.  
 
11.7. The Supplier  shall inform SIEMENS  ENERGY  - at the latest at the time the order is confirmed - 
whether any open source licenses used by the Supplier  will – within their intended use - be 
subject to a “Copyleft Effect“ which will affect the products of SIEMENS  ENERGY . In the context 
of this provision, “Copyleft Effect“ means that the provisions of the open source license require 
that certain of the Supplier ’s products, as well as any products derived from these, may only be 
distributed further in accordance with the terms of the open source license e.g. only if the source 
code is disclosed.  
 
11.8. Should the Supplier  not indicate until receipt of the order that its products and services contain 
open -source components or whether the described “Copyleft Effect“ would occur, then 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  is entitled to cancel the order within 14 (fourteen) days upon receipt of this 
information.  
 
 
12. Special provisions for planning activities  
 
12.1. Any and all  documentation, such as plans, drawings, and models shall become the property of 
SIEMENS  ENERGY , even if the contract should be terminated prematurely and shall be handed 
over to SIEMENS  ENERGY  upon request.  The Supplier  shall grant to SIEMENS  ENERGY  an 
exclusive and transferable exploitation right for all usage categories that is unlimited in time and 
place and also excludes the Supplier  itself from using without claim for additional remuneration 
, same applies for works resulting from this contract. SIEME NS ENERGY  thus is entitled to 
exploit, by means of implementation of the respective plans, or otherwise use said plans and 
other documentation in their original form or after modification without any further participation 
or approval by the Supplier . 
 
 
13. Drawings, Tools, Auxiliary Devices, A uthorisations  
 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   12                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
13.1. Drawings and technical calculations shall be made available by the Supplier  free of charge, 
where necessary. Any tools, patterns, samples, models, profiles, drawings, standard 
specification sheets, printing templates and materials provided by the Supplier to SIEMENS  
ENERGY , as well as any materials derived therefrom, shall remain SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ 
property and shall not be made available to any third party nor be used for any other purposes 
than those contractually agreed, without SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ prior written approval.  Tools, 
patterns, etc., that have been produced at SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ expense, shall become its 
property upon payment.  
 
13.2. All tools and related auxiliary devices, in a broad er sense, shall be clearly marked as SIEMENS  
ENERGY ’ property and protected against unauthorised access or use, or maintained and 
repaired, if and where applicable.  They shall be returned either upon execution or cancellation 
of the order. Subject to any further rights, SIEMENS  ENERGY  may demand the return of such 
materials if the Supplier  violates the duties referred to above. The Supplier  has no right of 
retention.  
 
13.3. The Supplier  expressly states and warrants towards SIEMENS  ENERGY  that it is in possession 
of all industrial authorisations as well as any other authorisations  permits and/or licences  
necessary to ensure the performance of the services as agreed in the contract and that it will, 
upon SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ request, make available to SIEMENS  ENERGY  the respective 
documents.  Insofar as for the performance of the deliveries and services special regulatory 
approvals, authorisations or inspections are required, such approvals, permissions and 
inspections will be obtained by the Supplier  without entitlement to special remuneration in a 
timely manner.   
 
 
14. Place of Performance, Applicable Law, Place of Jurisdiction, Severability, Proviso  
 
14.1. The place of performance for deliveries or services shall be the place of destination. For 
payments, the place of performance shall be the Buyer’s seat.  
 
14.2.  Croatian law shall apply with the exception of  trading customs and practices, conflict of laws of 
the private international law and the rules of the Vienna (United Nations) Convention on 
Contracts for the International Sale of Goods of 1980.   
 
14.3. The resolving of any d isputes, in particular those relating to the implementation of contract or 
any arising claims, shall be under the exclusive jurisdiction of the competent court in Zagreb.  
However, SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall also be entitled to bring proceedings against the Supplier  
before any other court, e.g. before the Supplier ’s court of general  local jurisdiction.  
 
14.4. The Supplier  shall compensate SIEMENS  ENERGY  for any costs necessary to bring 
appropriate legal action, in particular for attorneys’ fees, and for any pre -trial expenses incurred 
by SIEMENS  ENERGY . 
 
14.5. Any individual provision of this General Terms, and/or agreements and/or other additional 
arrangements concluded in writing between SIEMENS ENERGY and the Supplier which is or 
becomes invalid, illegal or unenforceable under any law of any jurisdiction which affects the 
performance of the contract or any omission to provide for any subject matter shall not affect 
the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of and/or agreements and/or 
other additional arrangement s concluded in writing between SIEMENS ENERGY and the 
Supplier. In such cases, any invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision(s) shall be severed from 
the remainder of the contract and the parties shall seek effective solutions to replace invalid, 
illegal  or unenforceable provisions with the provision whose content shall be adjusted to the 
valid applicable provision, and shall as closely as possible approximate (in economic effect) to 
the purpose parties intended to achieve with the clause which shall be r eplaced.  
 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   13                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
14.6. SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall not be obligated to fulfil this agreement if such fulfilment is prevented 
by any impediments arising out of national or international foreign trade or customs 
requirements or any embargoes or other sanctions.  
 
 
15. Confidentiality, Data Protection  
 
15.1. The Supplier  undertakes to keep confidential information pertinent to SIEMENS  ENERGY  or 
the subject matter of the contract, which he has rightfully obtained in connection with the 
purchase order, unless this information has become generally known or known to the Supplier  
in another lawful manner. Furthermore, the Supplier  shall keep confidential the results or partial 
results obtained by the Supplier  in fulfilment of the purchase order and use them exclusively for 
the performance of the present purcha se order.  In the event that the Supplier  makes use of a 
third party for the performance of its contractual obligations, it shall make sure that such third 
party contractually commits itself to at least the same degree of confidentiality.  
 
15.2. The same applies to personal data relating to SIEMENS  ENERGY  or any third party, that the 
Supplier  has acquired in connection with the contract with SIEMENS  ENERGY . The Supplier  
shall protect such information against access by third parties and commit its employees  
(including employees, hired staff, freelancer)  dealing with contractually relevant tasks to the 
same level of confidentiality.  
 
15.3. The Supplier ’s data (commercial register data, address, telephone and facsimile number as well 
as other information required for correspondence following from modern communication tools, 
locations, contact persons, ordered goods, and supply volumes) which become known to 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  in connection with the respective business transaction will be automatically 
processed only for the execution of the contract, in particular, for administration and billing 
purposes. For technical reasons, it may be necessary to store such data on servers  of a 
company that is a member of the SIEMENS Energy group.  
 
15.4. The Supplier  expressly agrees that the data obtained from each business transaction and stored 
according to item 15.3 may be passed on to other companies affiliated to SIEMENS  ENERGY .  
 
15.5.  The protection of personal data is very important to SIEMENS  ENERGY . Therefore, SIEMENS  
ENERGY  processes personal data only in accordance with all applicable data protection and 
data security regulations. In the course of doing business with suppliers SIEMENS  ENERGY  
processes personal data of contact persons at the Supplier , at interested parties (potential 
suppliers) or at other business partners. Details to the categories of the processed data, the 
purposes of the processing and its legal grounds can be found in the Data Privacy Policy of 
Siemens  Energy – available in detail on the homepage   
https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/general/privacy -notice.html  
 
16. Information, Declaration of Materials, RoHS, Disposal, Packaging, Dangerous Goods , 
Purchase of Timber  
 
16.1. If the Supplier  delivers products that are subject to regulatory or other legal requirements with 
regard to  their placement on the market and further marketing in the European Economic Area, 
or comparable requirements in other countries of use named by SIEMENS  ENERGY , the 
Supplier  must ensure that the products fulfil these requirements in their version applicable at 
the time of acceptance (cf. 5.1). The Supplier  must further ensure that all documents and 
information necessary for proof of conformity of the products with the applicable requirements 
can be supplied to SIEMENS  ENERGY  immediately upon request.  
 
16.2. Notwithstanding any legal information duties, the Supplier  shall provide SIEMENS  ENERGY  
with all necessary and useful information pertinent to the goods and services to be delivered, in 
particular, information on proper storage as well as safety data sheets in accordance with EU 
regulative applicable at the time of conclusion of the contract . In addition, the Supplier  shall 
raise SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ attention to the possibility of hazardous waste or waste oils arising 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   14                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
from the goods delivered by the Supplier  and shall, in particular, advise SIEMENS  ENERGY  on 
their disposal.  Upon SIEMENS  ENERGY ’ request, the Supplier  shall take back, free of charge, 
any waste resulting from the ordinary use of the delivered goods or similar products, as defined 
in the applicable Waste Management Act. However, such obligations shall be limited to the 
amount delivered by the Supplier . Should the Supplier  refuse or should the Supplier  not be able 
to accept such waste, SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall be  entitled to dispose of it at the Supplier ’s 
expense.  
 
Waste generated during the execution of works must be collected separately, waste disposals 
must be arranged for the separate collection of non - dangerous waste (metal, sheet metal, 
wood) and be disposed of in the designated places for collection of certain type of waste. If 
occurrence of dangerous waste is predicted during the execution of the works, Supplier  is 
obliged to provide the containers for disposal of it, in accordance with the applicable regulations. 
Flammable waste must be in metal containers w ith lids and away from flammable sources.  
 
At the end of the work, it is the obligation of the Supplier  to clean the worksite, to dispose of any 
residual material and dispose waste in a legally prescribed manner  and submit evidence that 
the waste has been disposed, such as for example PL -O form, ONTO forms and other 
documentation in accordance with the Croatian Environmental Protection Law and the Wast 
Management Law . All costs for cleaning the construction site and eliminating or managing the 
waste is included in the agreed price. If Supplier  fails to fulfil this obligation or is late in 
performing of it, SIEMENS  ENERGY  is entitled to perform the work at the Supplier  's cost and 
will issue Invoice to Supplier  with payment terms equivalent to payment terms which SIEMENS  
ENERGY  has with Supplier  in certain case . 
 
16.3. The Supplier  ensures that deliveries under the order are RoHS –compliant and therefore in 
conformity with the EC Directive on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances 
in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (EU Regulations in the version applicable as of 
conclusion of the contract) at the time of delivery. In the event that deliveries fail to comply with 
this EC Directive, the Supplier  shall – without prejudice to any warranty claims SIEMENS  
ENERGY  may raise – compensate SIEMENS  ENERGY  for any damage arising from such non -
compliance.  
 
16.4. Should the Supplier  deliver legally permissible products, which are, however, subject to 
statutorily -imposed substance restrictions and/ or information requirements (e.g. REACH – 
Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), the Supplier  shall declare 
such substances in the web database BOMcheck ( www.BOMcheck.net ) or in a reasonable 
format provided by SIEMENS  ENERGY  no later than the date of first delivery of products. The 
foregoing shall only apply with respect to laws which are applicable at the registered seat of 
Supplier  or SIEMENS  ENERGY  or at the designated place of delivery requested by SIEMENS  
ENERGY . Furthermore, the Supplier  shall also declare all products, substances which are set 
out in the so -called “ List of declarable Substances” (www.bomcheck.net/ suppliers/restricted -
and-declarable -substances -list) applicable at the time of delivery in the manner described  
above.  
 
16.5. Should the delivery contain goods which – according to international regulations – are classified 
as dangerous goods, the Supplier  shall inform SIEMENS  ENERGY  hereof in a form agreed 
upon between Supplier  and SIEMENS  ENERGY , but in no case later than the date of order 
confirmation.  
 
16.6.  When providing goods and services, the Supplier  shall comply with all requirements of the EU 
Timber Regulation, which aim is to prohibit the placing of illegally harvested timber and timber 
products derived from such timber on the EU market. This includes e.g. all paper products, 
labels, brochures, etc . If nevertheless an import into the EU is seen as necessary the EU Timber 
Regulation Process Description applies.  
 
16.7.  The content of the provision of this article of the General Terms and Conditions is covered by 
the commercial guarantee of the Supplier.  
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   15                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
 
17. Legal Succession and third parties  
 
17.1.  SIEMENS  ENERGY  may, in its sole discretion, assign the Contract or Order or any part thereof 
or any of its contractual rights or obligations to any affiliate company of SIEMENS ENERGY . 
Such assignment shall be in effect after SIEMENS  ENERGY  informs the Supplier  about the 
assignment by a written notification. The Supplier  hereby gives its approval of such assignments 
of the Contract or any contractual rights or obligations in advance . 
 
18. Anti-corruption   
 
18.1.  The Supplier  shall notify SIEMENS  ENERGY  – at the latest upon submission of the Supplier ’s 
offer to SIEMENS  ENERGY  – in writing if the Supplier  or members of its management board 
have been sentenced by final judgement of a national court for corruption of a public officer 
within the last five years prior to the submission of the Supplier ’s offer to SIEMENS  ENERGY , 
and, without undue delay, if the Supplier  or members of its management board are charged with 
corruption of a public officer before a national court at any time between submission of th e 
Supplier ’s offer to SIEMENS  ENERGY  and acceptance of the supplies/services of the Supplier  
pursuant to Sect. 9.2. Such notification shall ensure compliance with the requirements laid down 
by the OECD Recommendation on Anti -corruption in relation to national export guarantees.  
 
 
19. Cybersecurity  
 
19.1. The Supplier  shall take appropriate organizational and technical measures to ensure the  
confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and availability of Supplier  Operations as well as products 
and services. These measures shall be consistent with good industry practice and shall include 
an appropriate information security management system consistent with standards such as 
ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable).  
 
19.2. “Supplier  Operations” means all assets, processes and systems (including information   
systems), data (including customer data), personnel, and sites, used or processed by the              
Supplier  from time to  time in the performance of this contract . 
 
19.3.  Should products or services contain software, firmware, or chipsets:  
• the Supplier  shall implement appropriate standards, processes and methods to prevent, 
identify, evaluate and repair any vulnerabilities, malicious code, and security incidents in 
products and services which shall be consistent with good industry practice and standards  
such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable);  
• the Supplier  shall continue to support and provide services to repair, update, upgrade and 
maintain products and services including the provision of patches to the Customer 
remedying vulnerabilities for the reasonable lifetime of the products and services;  
• the Supplier  shall provide to the Customer a bill of materials identifying all third -party 
software components contained in the products. Third -party  software shall be up -to-date at 
the time of delivery to the Customer;  
• the Supplier  shall grant to the Customer the right, but the Customer shall not be obliged, to 
test or have tested products for malicious code and vulnerabilities at any time, and shall 
adequately support the Customer;  
• the Supplier  shall provide the Customer a contact for all information security related issues 
(available during business hours).  
 
19.4.  The Supplier  shall promptly report to the Customer all relevant information security incidents  
occurred or suspected and vulnerabilities discovered in any Supplier  Operations, services and 
products, if and to the extent the Customer is or is likely to be materially affected.  
 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   16                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
19.5.  The Supplier  shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its subcontractors and Supplier s 
shall,  within a reasonable time, be bound by obligations similar to the provisions of this section 
19. 
 
19.6.  Upon the Customer’s request, the Supplier  shall provide written evidence of its compliance with 
this section 19 including generally accepted audit reports . 
 
20. Code of Conduct for Supplier s, Security in the Supply Chain  
 
20.1. Supplier  shall comply with the laws of the applicable legal system(s)  as well as the principles  
and requirements  of the “Siemens Energy Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Third  Party 
Intermediaries” attached herein as Appendix  1 (hereinafter: Code of Conduct)  and address 
these expectations to its own suppliers along its supply chain.  
In particular, the Supplier  shall not engage, actively or passively, directly or indirectly, in any 
form of bribery, violation of basic human  rights of employees or any child labour , and the 
Supplier shall observe the stipulations of the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence 
Obligations in Supply Chains (Lieferkettensorg - faltspflichtengesetz,  LkSG , to the extent 
applicable to the Supplier - and its own subsuppliers ). In the case of cross -border assignments 
of employees, the Supplier  has to observe all statutory regulations of the country of operation. 
Furthermore , the Supplier  shall fulfil all statutory wage  and minimum wage  requirements as well 
as the wage requirements from all collective bargaining agreements, shall fulfill his statutory 
obligations to  pay taxes and social insurance contributions, shall comply with all statutory and 
official requirements for work safety, and shall only use employees who have the necessary 
working permits and have proper social security and accident insurance.  
The Supplier shall provide a protected grievance mechanism for its own employees to report 
possible violations of this Code of Conduct. In case of involvement of third parties and/or 
involvement of further third parties involved by these third parties, the Supplier  equally ensures 
the compliance with these requirements  and make the best efforts to promote this Code of 
Conduct among its supplier s. Supplier shall  be obliged to duly document its compliance with the 
Code  of Conduct . Upon request ; the Supplier  has to provide to SIEMENS  ENERGY  with 
respective written proof of compliance with these obligations, by itself and the third party. The 
Supplier  shall fully indemnify and hold harmless SIEMENS  ENERGY  from and against claims 
based on the infringement of the obligations according to this article 20. by the Supplier  or third 
parties.  
 
20.2 The Supplier  shall act in accordance with the applicable environmental laws. He will take  
adequate measures to avoid the deployment of so -called conflict minerals and to create 
transparency over  the origin of raw materials and will use best efforts to promote this Code of 
Conduct among its suppliers.  
 
20.3. The Supplier  is obliged to comply with all legal requirements regarding the health and safety of 
its employees , and shall be responsible for health and safety of its employees.  It must ensure 
that the health and safety of its personnel as well as the personnel from his direct or indirect 
subcontractors employed to perform the deliveries and services and all other persons who are 
entitled to stay in the work area, is protected.  
 
20.4. The Supplier  shall provide the necessary organizational instructions and take measures, 
particularly with regard to the following security: premises security, packaging and transport, 
business partner, personnel and information - in order to guarantee the security in the supply 
chain according to the requirements of respective internationally recognized initiatives based on 
the WCO SAFE Framework of Standards (e.g. AEO, C -TPAT). The Supplier  shall protect the 
goods and services provided to SIEMENS  ENERGY  or provided to third parties designated by 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  against unauthorized access and manipulation. The Supplier  shall only 
deploy reliable personnel for those goods and services and shall obligate any subcontractors to 
take equivalent security measures.  
 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   17                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
20.5.  Without prejudice to other rights and remedies SIEMENS  ENERGY  may have, SIEMENS  
ENERGY  may terminate  the contract if in case of breach of any of these obligations  by the 
Supplier . If, however, the  Supplier ’s breach of duty is capable of remedy, SIEMENS  ENERGY  
may terminate the contract only if the  Supplier  has failed to comply with a period granted by 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  for remedying its breach of contract.  
 
20.6.  If requested by SIEMENS ENERGY , the Supplier  shall not more than once a year either – at its  
             option – provide SIEMENS ENERGY with (i) a written self -assessment in the form provided by  
             SIEMENS ENERGY , or (ii) a written report approved by SIEMENS  ENERGY describing the  
             actions taken or to  be taken by  the S upplier to assure compliance with the Code of Conduct.  
 
20.7.  SIEMENS ENERGY  and its authorized agents and representatives and/or a third party 
appointed by SIEMENS ENERGY  and reasonably acceptable to Supplier, shall be entitled (but 
not obliged) to conduct – also at suppliers' premises – inspections in order to verify suppliers' 
compliance  with the contractual obligations, in particular  with the Code of Conduct.  
 
Any such  inspection may only be conducted upon prior written notice of SIEMENS ENERGY , 
during regular business hours, in accordance with the applicable data protection law and shall 
neither unreasonably interfere with suppliers' business activities nor violate any of suppliers' 
confidentiality agreements with third parties. Supplier shall reasonably cooperate in any 
inspections conducted. Each party shall bear its expenses in connection with such inspection.  
Supplier shall immediately initiate any remedial actions if it detects any violation of the Code of 
Conduct by itself or its subcontractors and shall promptly inform Customer of any such violation 
and the remedial action if and to the extent such breach affects the contract.  
 
20.8.  In addition to any other rights and remedies SIEMENS ENERGY  may have, in the event of (i) 
supplier's material or repeated failure to comply with the Code of Conduct or (ii) supplier's denial 
of SIEMENS ENERGY ' right of inspection as provided for in article  20.7. , after providing the 
Supplier reasonable notice and a reasonable opportunity to remedy, SIEMENS ENERGY  may 
terminate this agreement and/or any purchase order issued hereunder without any liability 
whatsoever.  
 
Material failures include, but are not limited to, incidents of child labor, corruption and bribery, 
and failure to comply with the Code of Conduct's environmental protection requirements. The 
notice and opportunity to remedy provision shall not apply to v iolations of requirements and 
principles regarding of the child labor as set out in the Code of Conduct or willful failures to 
comply with the Code of Conduct’s environmental protection requirements.  
 
20.9. SIEMENS  ENERGY  is granted with the right of direct monetary remuneration by the Supplier , 
on the basis of an invoice due for payment within 7 days, in the amount determined by 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  at its sole discretion for each case of breach of the provisions of this Article 
by the Supplier . The Supplier  waives its right to contest such invoice issued by SIEMENS  
ENERGY . In the event of such breach, SIEMENS  ENERGY  is authorized to terminate the 
Contract and take any other measures, at its sole discretion. This right does not in any way 
affect SIEMENS  ENERGY  ' right to compensation for damages or any other right deriving from 
the Supplier 's behaviour contrary to the statutory or contractual health and safety provisions.  
 
 
21. Environmental  Health and Safety  
 
21.1. The Supplier  shall comply with all legal provisions on health and safety and shall make his best 
efforts a) to remove threats to the health and safety of persons employed by the Supplier  and 
Supplier ’s direct or indirect Sub-supplier  responsible for the performance of works (“personnel”) 
and b) to ensure that no person who is authorized to be on a construction site, including 
personnel, SIEMENS  ENERGY  personnel and visitors is injured.  
 
21.2.  Prior to the start of works, the Supplier  shall: 1) provide SIEMENS  ENERGY  with a risk 
assessment prepared for that specific site in written form that a) analyses any potential threats 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   18                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
to the health and safety of personnel which may arise from the performance of works and b) 
determines measures, deadlines and responsible persons to remove such threats; 2) provide 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  with a EHS Plan/Plan of work execution prepared for that specific site, in 
written form, in accordance with provisions of the relevant national bylaw. Both documents must 
cover all Contractor’s work activities (his own and his subcontractor’s).  
 
21.3. The Supplier  shall ensure that all personnel, prior to the start of works, participates in specific 
training organised for that construction site which must be documented in written form, and that 
the same personnel is equipped with appropriate personal protective equ ipment and other 
equipment. The Supplier  shall ensure that the personnel uses that personal protective 
equipment and other equipment and that the equipment is maintained in good condition at all 
times, have appropriate certificates and, i f necessary, replace them with new ones.  
 
21.4 In accordance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act,  Environment Act, and Fire 
Protection Act,  the Supplier is obliged to comply  with the regulations and the organisation of 
occupational health and safety on the joint construction site, regulating any mutual rights, 
obligations and responsibilities of the Buyer and the Supplier with respect to occupational health 
and safety.  
 
The Supplier undertakes:  
- to ensure the work of its foreign employees, with a work permit in accordance with existing 
legal regulations;  
- to conclude a Work Contract or Temporary Service Contract with each employee in writing;  
- to register its employees with the authorities regulating health, pension and disability 
insurance;  
- to pay a special contribution for employees in the event of a work -related injury or 
occupational disease in accordance with the Health Insurance Act;  
- that the employees assigned to jobs with specific working conditions meet the specific 
requirements in accordance with the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act 
and the Ordinance on Jobs with Specific Working Conditions;  
- that the employees are trained in workplace safety in accordance with the Occupational 
Health and Safety Act, and that they perform their work tasks and assignments with due 
care taking into account their own health and safety and the health and safety of other 
persons who may be endangered by their actions or misconduct;  
- to ensure that the resources, personal protective equipment and place of work used are at 
all times safe, maintained, adapted for work and in working condition, and the machinery 
and mechanical devices with an increased risk have been tested in accordance with the 
Occupational Health and Safety Act and the regulations adopted on the basis of the Act;  
- to organise and implement occupational health and safety prevention in all aspects of work 
organisation, work procedures, and workflow management, while organising the highest 
possible level of workplace health and safety, as well as determining the perfor mance of 
health and safety activities in accordance with risk assessment, the status of health and 
safety and the number of employees;  
- to implement all occupational health and safety measures, environmental protection 
measures and fire protection measures in force during the execution of works, in 
accordance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, Fire Protection Act, Environmental 
Protection Act and the related Ordinances.  
 
In addition to the aforementioned documents, the Supplier especially undertakes to deliver the 
following documents:  
 
- Risk assessment of workplaces at the temporary construction site ; 
- Employment documents: registration, work permits and residence permits for Croatia;  
- Medical certificates for jobs with specific working conditions – issued by an occupational 
health service in Croatia;  
- Evidence of workplace safety training for the jobs performed by the employees (certificate 
in theory and practice) – issued by an authorised organisation in Croatia  or by the employer 
if he has valid authorisation for such purpose ; 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   19                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
- Evidence of initial fire extinguishing training – issued by an authorised organisation in 
Croatia;  
- Evidence of first -aid training (1 per 20 employees , and  1 per every additional 50 employees ) 
– issued by the Red Cross or an occupational health service  or by the employer if he has 
valid authorisation for such purpose ; 
- Evidence of health and safety training for an authorised person (authorised person on a 
construction site) – issued by an authorised organisation in Croatia  or by the employer if he 
has valid authorisation for such purpose ; 
- Evidence of testing machinery (devices) with increased risk – issued by an authorised 
organisation in Croatia (if any)  ; 
- Type approval certificates and instructions for safe operation for any equipment used (kits, 
personal protective equipment, operating procedures).  
 
In the event of breach of the above clauses by the Supplier, the Buyer shall have the right to 
compensation for any damage which may arise thereto on the basis of administrative, criminal 
and civil liability, and shall constitute reasonable grounds for the  termination of the Contract by 
the Buyer, the completion of work by a different supplier at the expense of the Supplier under 
Contract, and compensation for any damage to the Buyer resulting from the termination of 
Contract due to the fault of the Supplie r. 
 
The Supplier shall comply with all the statutory provisions on occupational health and safety and 
shall make every effort to: a) eliminate the danger to the health and safety of the employees of 
the Contractor and the Contractor’s direct and indirect subco ntractors in charge of the execution 
of services (“staff”); and b) ensure that no person authorised to be on site, including the staff, 
the Buyer’s staff and visitors, is injured.  
 
Prior to the commencement of services, the Supplier will give the Buyer a written risk 
assessment which a) analyses all potential health and safety hazards that might result from the 
performance of services, and b) determines the measures to address such h azards.  
The Supplier will ensure that all staff receive training specific to their place of work and that the 
same staff, prior to the commencement of services, receive the appropriate personal protective 
equipment. The Supplier will ensure that staff use the pers onal protective equipment they 
receive and that they are kept in good condition at all times.  
 
21.5. SIEMENS  ENERGY  reserves the right, at its sole discretion and at any moment, to remove any 
personnel from the construction site and/or suspend the performance of works for health and 
safety reasons, in which case SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall bear no liability or any other 
consequences.  
  
21.6.     The S upplier  shall appoint an expert as its representative for environment, health and safety  
     and fire safety (“the Supplier ’s EHS representative”) and shall ensure that the Supplier ’s EHS     
     representative participates in discussions related to safety which will periodically be organized  
by SIEMENS  ENERGY . 
 
21.7. The Supplier  shall regularly monitor compliance with the legal provisions as well as provisions 
in the field of occupational health and safety, fire safety and environmental protection defined 
in the contract and in the internal rules of the End Customer. In addition,  Supplier  shall a) 
periodically conduct site visits, known as Safety Walk and Talk (hr: Sigurnosni obilasci i 
razgovori), b) ensure communication of Stop Work Authority rule in case of identified danger 
(hr: Pravo na obustavu rada u slučaju opasnosti), c) ensure communication of forbidden work 
regulations in areas for which Work Permit is not issued, d) communica te to all workers  that 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  must be informed about each Work order, i.e. the work activity must not 
start without prior approval by the SIEMENS  ENERGY  responsible person.  
 
 In due course, before conducting site visits, the Supplier  may invite SIEMENS  ENERGY  to 
participate in the visits. If the Supplier  finds non -compliance with the provisions on health and 
safety, compliance has to be established without delay and SIEMENS  ENERGY  has to be 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   20                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
informed on the findings and status of actions taken by the Supplier  in order to achieve 
compliance.  
 
21.8 The S IEMENS ENERGY  Zero Harm Framework  (“SE Zero Harm  Framework ”) promotes a 
culture where health, safety and environment are an integral part of SIEMENS 
ENERGY principles and behaviours at all levels of the organisation. The approach demonstrates 
that nothing is more important than making sure that SIEMENS ENERGY  does everything it can 
to protect the health and safety of its employees, contractors and to protect the environment. 
Supplier, c ontractors and subcontractors are required to support and engage with SE Zero Harm 
Framework at the work location and  with any initiatives or programs aimed at improving health, 
safety, the working environment and EHS performance standards. This may include, for 
example, participation and attendance at workshops, safety stand -down days, safe start 
induction, awareness tra ining, briefings, toolbox talks etc.  Notwithstanding the right to terminate 
the contract in accordance with Article 21.15, SIEMENS ENERGY  reserves the right to stop 
work and to suspend, exclude or ban from any S IEMENS ENERGY  site, any individual(s) for a 
violation of the EHS Plan, SE Zero Harm Framework, customer rules, contractor EHS 
requirements, site rules and / or local laws and regulations . 
The suspension, exclusion or ban will also apply to situations where verbal or written instructions 
issued by the Supplier  are determined by SEto be in conflict with any of the above.  
The suspension, exclusion or ban is valid for a period of time as determined by S IEMENS 
ENERGY , based on the findings of including an assessment on the extent of culpability of any 
individual(s), and actions to be undertaken by the Supplier  to correct the unwanted behaviour.  
 
21.9. Upon the request of SIEMENS  ENERGY , the Supplier  shall immediately allow SIEMENS  
ENERGY  to access the Supplier ’s documents which refer to health and safety, fire safety and 
environment protection, and relate to the works.  
 
21.10. In the event of an incident which leads to a) the death of any one member of personnel or b) 
serious injury which includes more than one day of incapacity to work of any one member of 
personnel or c) more than three workers put in hospitals, d) an injury t hat requires medical 
attention the Supplier  shall immediately notify SIEMENS  ENERGY  and shall, without delay, 1) 
provide first aid to injured persons and secure the location of the incident 2) conduct an analysis 
of the basic cause of the incident, 3) determine appropriate measures in order to prevent similar 
incidents in the future, 4) define time -limits and responsible persons for measures to be carried 
out and 5) submit a written report to SIEMENS  ENERGY  within one week from the incident 
which contains sufficient details on the basic cause of the incident, the measures determined 
and the time -limits defined. The Supplier  shall support any additional investigations that might 
be carried out by SIEMENS  ENERGY . 
 
21.11. SIEMENS  ENERGY  and its authorized persons and representatives and/or a third party 
designated by SIEMENS  ENERGY  have the right (but not the obligation) to perform – including 
at the Supplier ’s premises – an Audit to evaluate the Supplier ’s environmental, health and safety 
management system, including controls of appropriate documents and, in case of deficiencies 
classified as serious by SIEMENS  ENERGY , defining of remedial measures.  
 
 Such Audit may only be conducted by SIEMENS  ENERGY  with prior written notice, during 
regular business hours, in accordance with applicable data protection law, and shall not 
unreasonably interfere with Supplier ’s business activities or violate any vendor confidentiality 
agreement with third parties. The Supplier  undertakes to cooperate reasonably during each 
performed Audit.  
 
21.12. If the Audit is caused by serious incident described in clause 2 1.10 or by continuous or recurring 
environmental and occupational health and safety deficiencies, the cost of that Audit and any 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   21                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
delay in the provision of SIEMENS  ENERGY  services to the End Customer shall be borne by 
the Supplier . 
 
21.13. When SIEMENS  ENERGY  prepares a document related to health and safety on a construction 
site (“EHS Plan/Plan of work execution”), SIEMENS  ENERGY  will provide a copy of it for the 
Supplier . The Supplier  shall confirm the receipt of the document in writing and act in accordance 
with the provisions contained therein. The same applies to the amendments to the EHS 
Plan/Plan of work execution which SIEMENS  ENERGY  may carry out when deemed 
necessary. The Supplier  shall ensure that its direct or indirect Sub-suppliers , with which the 
Supplier  contracted works, commit to conduct in compliance with the EHS Plan/Plan of work 
execution and its amendments.  
 
21.14. The Supplier shall plan, prepare and implement operating procedures, as well as develop and  
implement operating technologies in a manner that does not compromise the health and safety 
of employees, taking into account the highest level of protection against occupational risk, in 
accordance with the rules of occupational health and safety and othe r regulations, and shall 
ensure that only the employees who have received the appropriate instructions shall have 
access to places where there are serious and specific hazards. The above obligations can also 
be fulfilled through a Work Plan, in order for t he Supplier to draft a work plan in accordance with 
the Occupational Health and Safety Act for the purpose of fulfilling and self -checking its 
obligations, regardless of the absence of the obligation.  
 
21.15. In addition to all other rights, SIEMENS  ENERGY  may, in the event the Supplier  violates legal 
and/or contractual provisions regarding health and safety or regularly performs works failing to 
comply with those provisions, including the provisions of this Section and the provisions of the 
EHS plan/Plan of work execution  and SE Zero Harm Framework  terminate this contract after 
the Supplier  fails to correct the identified violations within a reasonable time -frame or prohibit 
access to Supplier ’s employee s who frequently violate the rules, or suspend work until the non -
compliance is remedied. In that case, SIEMENS  ENERGY  shall have no liability to the Supplier  
or any other third party nor any other consequences regarding the termination of this contract.  
 
21.16. SIEMENS  ENERGY  is granted with the right of direct monetary remuneration by the Supplier , 
on the basis of an invoice due for payment within 7 days, in the amount determined by 
SIEMENS  ENERGY  at its sole discretion for each case of breach of the statutory or contractual 
health and safety provisions by the Supplier . The Supplier  waives its right to contest such 
invoice issued by SIEMENS  ENERGY . In the event of such breach, SIEMENS  ENERGY  is 
authorized to terminate the Contract and take any other measur es, at its sole discretion. This 
right does not in any way affect SIEMENS  ENERGY  ' right to compensation for damages or 
any other right deriving from the Supplier 's behaviour contrary to the statutory or contractual 
health and safety provisions.  
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   22                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
Siemens  Energy  Code  of Conduct  
for Suppliers  and Third -Party  Intermediaries  
This Code of Conduct defines the basic requirements placed on the suppliers and third -party 
intermediaries of Siemens Energy concerning their responsibilities towards their stakeholders 
and the environment. The supplier and/or third -party intermediary declares herewith to :  
 
Legal Compliance  
• Comply with the laws and regulations of the applicable legal systems.  
 
Human Rights  
To ensure respect of all internationally proclaimed human rights by avoiding causation of 
and complicity in  any human rights violations. Heightened attention shall be paid to ensuring 
respect of human rights of  specifically vulnerable rights holders, such as women, children 
or migrant workers, or of (indigenous)  communities.  
 
▪ Prohibition  of Forced  Labor  
• Neither use nor contribute to slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labor, oppression,  
exploitation  and human  trafficking.  
 
▪ Prohibition  of Child  Labor  
• Employ  no workers  under  the age of which  compulsory  schooling  ends  according  to the 
law of the place of employment, provided that the age of employment is not less than 15 
years or, in  those  countries  subject  to the developing  country  exception  of the ILO Convention  
138, employ  no workers  under the  age of 14. 
• Employ  no workers  under  the age of 18 for hazardous  work  according  to ILO Convention  
182. 
 
▪ Non-Discrimination  and Respect  in employment  
• Ensure equal treatment of employees, irrespective of skin color, race, nationality, 
ethnicity,  social background, health status, disabilities, gender, sexual identity and 
orientation, marital  status, political opinion, ideological or religious conviction, belief, or 
age, and promote their  equal  opportunities.  
• Refuse to tolerate any unacceptable treatment of individuals such as mental cruelty, 
sexual  harassment  or discrimination  including  gestures,  language  and physical  contact,  
that is sexual,  coercive,  threatening,  abusive  or exploitative.  
• Refrain from unnecessary restriction on freedom of movement, except for safety and 
security  requirements.  
 
▪ Freedom  of association  and collective  bargaining  
• Recognize the legal rights of workers to form or join trade unions and to engage in 
collective  bargaining; neither disadvantage nor prefer members of employee 
organizations or trade  unions.  
 
▪ Working  Hours  & Wages  for Employees  
• Adhere  to all applicable  working -hours  and rest breaks regulations.  
• Pay fair, at least  minimum,  wages  required  by applicable  law. 
• In the event  of cross -border  personnel  deployment  adhere  to all applicable  legal  
requirements.  
 
Code of Conduct Version 2.0, March 2023  
 
 
 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   23                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
▪ Life, Health  & Safety  of Employees  
• Act in accordance with the applicable statutory and international standards regarding 
occupational health  and safety and provide safe working conditions and, where 
applicable, adequate accommodation to  safeguard  health  and wellbeing  of employees.  
• Provide  training and  instruction to  ensure  employees  are educated  in health  and safety  
issues.  
• Establish  and apply  a reasonable  occupational  health  & safety  management  system¹.  
 
▪ Impact  on communities  
• Refrain  from unlawful eviction  and / or unlawful deprivation  of land, forests and  waters.  
 
▪ Security  Forces  
▪ When using private or state security forces, ensure that the human rights of employees and other 
rights holders are respected (in particular, no use of physical or psychological force, except in case 
of legitimate self -defense).  
 
Environmental and Climate Protection, Protection of Natural Resources  
• Act in accordance with the applicable statutory and international standards regarding the 
environment.  
• Minimize environmental pollution and make continuous improvements in environmental protection.  
• Establish a reasonable environmental management system¹.  
• Not cause harmful soil change, water pollution, air pollution, harmful noise emission or excessive 
water consumption, which significantly impairs the basic existential needs or harms the health of a 
person.  
• Reduce waste and ensure their proper treatment and disposal.  
  
Fair Operating Practices  
 
 Anti-Corruption and Bribery  
• Tolerate no form of and do not engage directly or indirectly in any form of corruption or bribery 
and do not grant, offer or promise anything of value to a government official or to a counterparty 
in the private sector to influence official action or obtain an improper advantage. This includes 
to renounce from giving or accepting improper facilitation payments.  
 
 Fair Competition, Anti -Trust Laws and Intellectual Property Rights  
• Act in accordance with national and international competition laws and do not participate in 
price fixing, market or customer allocation, market sharing or bid rigging with competitors.  
• Respect the intellectual property rights of others.  
 
 Conflicts of Interest  
• Avoid and/or disclose internally and to Siemens Energy all conflicts of interest that may 
influence business relationships, and to avoid already the appearance thereof.  
 
 Anti-Money Laundering, Terrorism Financing  
• Not directly or indirectly facilitate money laundering or terrorism financing.  
 
 Data Privacy and Cybersecurity  
• Process personal data confidentially and responsibly, respect everyone’s privacy and ensure 
that personal data is effectively protected and used only for legitimate purposes.  
• Commit to have an adequate Cybersecurity management framework established in its 
organization based on good industry practice, to ensure the confidentiality, authenticity, 
integrity, and availability of data, processes, products, systems and services.  
 
Code of Conduct Version 2.0, March 2023  
 
 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase                   24                                                            February 2025  edition  
Siemens Energy d.o.o . 
 
Unrestricted © Siemens Energy, 202 4                                                  Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  
 
 
 
 Foreign Trade Regulations  
Comply with the applicable export, import, customs and foreign trade regulations.  
 
 
Responsible Minerals Sourcing  
• Take reasonable efforts to avoid in its products the use of raw materials which originate from 
Conflict -Affected and High -Risk Areas and contribute to human rights abuses, corruption, the 
financing of armed groups or similar negative effects.  
 
Grievance Mechanism  
• Provide access to a protected mechanism for their employees to report possible violations of the 
principles of this Code of Conduct.  
• Ensure protection of reporters or whistleblowers against any kind of retaliation.  
 
Supply Chain   
• Take reasonable measures to make its suppliers comply with the principles of this Code of Conduct 
and to verify this on a risk basis.  
• Comply with the principles of non -discrimination with regard to supplier selection and treatment.  
 
1 https://www.siemens -energy.com/global/en/company/about/supply -chain -management/sustainability -in-the-supply -chain/ehs -
management - systeme.htm l  
 
Code of Conduct Version 2.0, March 2023  
 
  