  
 
General Terms and Conditions for Serv ice - Siem ens Energy  (Version 04.2021) 
 
    
© Siemens Energy 20 21   
 The present General Terms and Conditions for Service - 
Siemens Energy (GTCS) shall be binding if declared applicable 
in our tender/ order  confirmation or our report. Any conditions to 
the contrary stipulated by the customer shall be vali d only if 
expressly accepted by us in writing.  
A. DEFINITION S 
A.1 System : The hardware and software which are the 
subject of the Service Contract  or the Services Based on 
Time and Workload . The term “equipment” may be used 
as a synonym.  
A.2 Service s: Servi ces B ased on Service  Contract  
(Paragraph A.5) a long with  Services  Based on Time and 
Workload  (Paragraph A.3 ).  
A.3 Services B ased on Time and Workload : Services which 
we perform  on a time -and-workload  basis to maintain, 
restore or functionally upgrade  the operationa l readines s 
of a System (Paragraph B) . 
A.4 Service Contract : Individual section of the contract with 
the customer -specific details and agreements.  
A.5  Services  Based on Service Contract : Any services 
under the  Service Contract (Paragraph C) . 
A.6 Service S tand -By Ti me: Our accessibility and provision 
of suitable personnel and material resources for rapid and 
effec tive intervention in the event of a fault during the time 
agreed in the Service Contract.  
A.7 Normal Working Hours : Working days from Monday 
through Frida y, from 0800 to 1700 in each case, statutory 
public holi days as applying at our service location 
excluded.  
A.8 On-Call Service : The extension of our Service Stand -by 
Time beyond the Normal Working Hours.  
A.9 Service Call Desk : Our ce ntral poin t for the acceptance 
of fault reports and their forwarding to the responsible 
member of our personnel. The telephone and fax number, 
plus, where applica ble, the internet - or e-mail address of 
the Service Call Desk are listed in the Service Contr act. 
The t erm “Helpl ine” may be used as a synonym.  
A.10 Response Time : Period between customer’s call being 
received by the Service Call Desk until our first expert 
telephone support is provided during the Service Stand -
By Time.  
A.11 Intervention Time : Period bet ween custo mer’s call being 
received by the Service Call Desk until our first expert 
interven tion on the System via Remote Access or On -Site 
Access dur ing the Service Stand -By Time.  
A.12 Remote Access : Services for fault diagnosis, 
troubleshoot ing or monitoring  of the System, performed 
by our personnel from one of our support centers  or a 
mobile station via telecommuni cations facilities (inte rnet, 
telephone or data line).  
A.13 On-Site Access : Services performed by our personnel at 
the location of the Sys tem.   
A.14 Update : Corrected and / or further developed version of 
the System’s software without functional expansion.  
A.15 Upgrade : Corrected and / or further developed version of 
the System’s software or hardware with functional 
expansion.  
A.15 Force Ma jeure : Impediments we are unable to overcome 
in spite of taking the required care, whether affecting 
ourselves, the customer or any third party. Such 
impediments shall include government measures or 
omissions, riots, mobilization, war; la bour co nflicts, l ock-
outs, strikes, accidents and other material equipment 
interruptions, epidemics, or natural occurrences; ter rorist 
activities.  
 
 
 
 
 
 B. SERVICES BASED ON TIME AND WORKLOAD  
1.  Subject Matter  
1.1 We shall provide  – in the absence of a Service Contract – 
Services  Based on Time and Workload during N ormal 
Working Hours in accordance with the individual agreement 
between us and the customer. If possible  for us , we shall 
provide Services B ased on Time and Workload  outside 
Normal Working Hours as well; in thi s case, overtime and  
on-call surcharges  shall be  invoiced .  
2.  Costs  and Payment Terms  
2.1 We shall invoice the provided services on a time-and-
workload  basis  and any surcharges  according to  the rates  
in our price list that is applicable at the time of servi ce 
provisi on.  
2.2 Our invoices shall be due without cash discounts  and 
without any other deduction s within 30 days of the invoice 
date. The o ffsetting  of such claims  against counterclaims 
shall not be  allowed . 
2.3 Should  the customer fail to meet  the agre ed payment  
dates, he shall be in default without a payment reminder 
being issued  and shall pay a default interest of eight 
percent p.a. starting on  the 31st day after the invoice date .  
C. SERVICES BASED ON SERVICE CONTRACT  
If the customer has concluded a S ervice Contract 
(Parag raph A.4) with us, the provisions of this Paragraph C 
shall apply additionally:  
3. Subject Matter   
3.1 We shall be  available to provi de the Services Based on 
Service Contract during the Service Stand-By Time agreed 
in the Service Contract . 
3.2 The customer shall submit fault reports to the  Service Call 
Desk. Outside N ormal Working Hours, faults shall be 
reported by phone .  
3.3 We shall consult with the customer by phone within t he Re -
sponse Time agreed  upon  in the S ervice Contract, classif y 
the rece ived fault report and commence fault rectification  
within the Intervention Time agreed  upon  in the Service 
Contract.  
3.4 In case  we fail to meet jointly agreed -upon  times and 
deadlines by reason of our own fault , the customer shall be 
entitled to  a credit note to be  agreed  upon  in the Service 
Contract. The total of all c redit notes shall be  limited to a  
maximum of  ten percent of the annual  flat-rate service fee. 
Additional claims o n the part of  the customer  based on  
default , especially claims for damages , are exclude d. 
3.5 Defective system parts shall, at our discretion, be repair ed 
or replace d.  
3.6 We shall be entitled to invoice the customer separately for 
costs associated with fault location, if reported faults can 
neither be identified nor re produced, or are att ributable to 
causes outside the System.  
4. Additional Services Requested by the Customer   
4.1 Services requested by the customer which  go beyond  the 
scope agreed  upon  in the S ervice Contract must be agreed  
upon  in writing in advance. The provisions  in Paragr aph B. 
shall apply additionally  to such services . 
5. Duties and Obligations of the Customer  
5.1 The customer shall have all work on the System carried out 
exclusively by us or by third parties authorised by us  in 
advance . 
5.2 The customer shall obse rve the pe rtinent operating 
instructions a nd, in particular , comply with the 
environmental values approved for the S ystem.   
5.3 If we are unable to provide  the Services Based on Service 
Contract at the customer’s premises  in a timely or proper 
manner for r easo ns for  which he is responsible, we shall be 
entitled to charge him for the resultant costs.   
   
 
 
General Terms an d Conditions for Service - Siem ens Energy  (Version 04.2021) 
  
  
 
© Siemens Energ y 202 1  Seite 2 von 4 
 6. Service Fees, Indexing, Payment Conditions   
6.1 The flat -rate service fee shall be calculated from the 
agreed services in accordance with the Service  Contract.  
6.2 Flat-rate service fees do not cover  services which  are 
invoiced  on a time-and-workload basis , which  are 
provided additionally at the customer’s request 
(Paragraph C.4) or which  are provided to rectify a defect  
outside the system . 
6.3 We shall be entitled to adj ust flat -rate service fees if the 
wage index of Swissmem (formerly “ ASM, Association of 
Swiss Engineering Employers ”) changes or if changes 
occur in the scope of service s. 
6.4 Our invoices shall be due without cash discounts and 
without  any other  deduction s within 30 days of the invoice 
date. The offsetting of such claims against counterclaims 
shall not be allowed . 
6.5 Should the customer fail to meet the agreed payment 
dates, he shall be in default without a payment reminder 
being issue d and he s hall be liable to pay default interest 
at a rate of eight percent  p.a. Should the customer be 
more than three months in default , we shall be entitled to 
suspend performance of the Services. We expressly 
reserve the right of termination with immed iate effec t of 
the S ervice Contract.  
7. Term of Service Contract , Notice of Termination  
7.1 The Service Contract (incl. this GTCS ) shall come into 
force upon its legally valid signature by both contractual 
parties as at the date agreed in the Service Contrac t. We 
shall in all cases sign collectively in pairs.  
7.2 The S ervice Contract shall be concluded for the agreed -
upon  minimum period and thereafter – if a maximum 
period is not provided  in the Service Contract  – for an 
indefinite period.   
7.3 Each contractu al party s hall be en titled to give written 
notice of termination of the Service Contract (incl. this 
GTCS ), subject to a notice period of three months from 
the end a calendar year, but effective at the earliest from 
the end of the agreed minimum term, unle ss otherwi se 
agreed in the Service Contract.  
7.4 Each contractual party shall be entitled to give written 
notice of termination of the Service Contract (incl. this 
GTCS ) with immediate effect for good cause, which shall 
apply in particular:  (a) in the eve nt of culp able mater ial 
breach of contract by the other contractual party which is 
not fully rectified within a rea sonable period despite 
written warnings; or  (b) if the other con tractual party has a 
long-term inability to pay or if insolvency or probate  
proceedin gs are app lied for or initiated against the other 
party or dismissed due to insufficient assets.  
7.5 We shall be entitled to give written notice of termination of 
the Service Contract (incl. this GTCS ) with immediate 
effect if the System suffers serious da mage  or is rendered 
unusable as a result of improper treatment on the part of 
the customer or third parties or as a consequence of 
Force Majeure. The customer shall inform us of such an 
event without delay. In this case re muneration shall be 
calculated pr o rata tem poris. We reserve the right to 
institute claims for damages.  
7.6 After termination of the Service Contract (incl. this GTCS ), 
the customer shall be entitled to continue to use the last 
version of the software installed by us, in accorda nce with 
the pertine nt usage conditions.  
D. GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR SERVICES  
8. General Information  
8.1 Services shall be provided, at our discretion, via Remote 
Access, On-Site Ac cess or at our premises .  8.2 We shall be entitled to engage  subcontractors and  shall be 
liable for  their services like our own.   
8.3 Spare  parts shall be invoiced according to the relevant list 
price s. They  may be new or as good as new . If defective 
parts are replaced, we shall acquire ownership thereof . The 
spare parts shall become  the custo mer’s prop erty as soon 
as they are fully paid for . 
8.4 Hardware deliveries shall take place EXW, Zurich 
(Incoterms 20 20). 
8.5 Software and documentation shall be supplied on a 
suitable data carrier of our choice.  
8.6 The customer shall be oblige d to provid e us  with the 
informa tion and documentation necessary for the Services 
before commencement of their performance.   
8.7 The customer shall be responsible for the regular backup of 
his data himself.   
8.8 The customer shall obtain for us the Syste m access 
required for  performance of the Services, and shall make 
available the necessary transmission devices, network 
connections and workstations.   
8.9 The customer shall make a properly qualified  contact 
person available to us during the performance o f our 
Servi ces and in form us , without being requested to do so , 
of the safety regu lations applicable at that person’s  
premises .  
8.10 The customer recognizes our exclusive right of disposal in 
respect of such of our tools as are located at the site.   
9. Confidentiali ty and Dat a Protection  
9.1 We undertake to treat confidentially at all times, even after 
the performance of the Service s, as our own trade secrets, 
all documents and information received from the customer 
in relation to the Service s, including a ll copies o r recordin gs 
that may have been made thereof, as well as the object and 
purport of the tasks we have been entrusted with, and such 
documents and information as we shall elaborate or 
develop. We therefore shall not divulge without cause such 
docu ments or in formation within our business enterprise 
and shall not disclose them to any third parties – neither in 
full nor in part – except to subcontractors and then subject 
to paragraph D . 9.3 only. The obligation shall not apply for 
such documents and i nformation of w hich i t is 
demonstrated that  (a) they have beco me a matter of 
common knowledge without the obligation to observe 
confidentiality having been infringed, or  (b) they have been 
lawfully disclosed by third parties, without the obligation to 
obse rve confide ntiality h aving been infringed,  (c) they have 
been elaborated by us independently.  
9.2 Insofar as we process personal data when performing work 
in relation with the equipment or documentation, we shall 
comply with customer's instructions and cur rent Data 
Protection Acts; further, we shall take such measures as 
are necessary with a view to safeguarding such data 
against unauthorized access by third parties.  
9.3 Insofar as this should prove necessary, we shall be entitled 
to pass documents and info rmation on to subcont ractors, 
provided the latter, on their part, have previously agreed in 
writing to observe confidentiality within the meaning of this 
paragraph . 
9.4 In accordance with the above provisions the customer 
under takes to treat confidentiall y and not t o disclose  to any 
third party, all documents received from us and bearing the 
mention "vertraulich", "confidential", "Fabrik ations -
geheimnis" or "manufacturing secret", etc.  
 
 
 
   
 
 
General Terms an d Conditions for Service - Siem ens Energy  (Version 04.2021) 
  
  
 
© Siemens Energ y 202 1  Seite 3 von 4 
 10. Rights to Hardware and Software and Documentation  
10.1 Intellectual or industrial property r ights, irrespective of 
whether such rights are eligible for legal protection or not, 
of all the hardware and software, including associated 
changes, as well documentation, shall remain with us, or 
with our subcontractors or third party  suppliers,  as the 
case may be.  
10.2 The customer shall enjoy the right to use the supplied 
hardware and software and the documentation provided 
in accordance with the se GTCS and any  Service 
Contract, along with any license conditions also supplied. 
Stand ard softwar e and its documentation shall be 
exclusively subject to the pertinent conditions of supply 
and licensing of the respective suppliers.  
10.3 Unless otherwise expressly agreed, the cus tomer shall 
not be entitled to: ( a) reproduce or have reproduced  the 
hardware or part s thereof, (b) duplicate the software 
(except for backup purposes) or make it available to third 
parties,  (c) copy or pub lish the associated documentation, 
or have it copied or pub lished.  
10.4 Upon transfer of the System, these obli gations and  rights 
shall be assigned to the recipient.  
11. Warranty  
11.1 We do not warrant that the System maintained by us may 
be used in a fault -free manner and without interruption in 
all con figurations desired by the customer.  
11.2 We provide a warranty for a perio d of six m onths from the 
date of delivery for a spare part or an Upgrade; in the 
case of an Upgrade, the warranty shall apply exclusively 
to the functional extension of the System affected by the 
Upgrade.  
11.3 In the case of the provision of a Service or the supply  of 
an Updates, we provide a warranty for a period of three 
months after completion of the Service or after delivery of 
the Update in respect of proper and careful execution.  
11.4 In any case the warranty period shall end 9 months at the 
latest after begi nning of the o rdinary warranty period 
stipulated under Art. 11.2 respectively 6  months at the 
latest after begi nning of the o rdinary warranty period 
stipulated under Art. 11.3.  
11.5 We provide no warranty for wear and tear parts.  
11.6 Should the customer d iscover a fault or deficiency during 
the warranty period, it shall report this to the Service Call 
Desk without delay. We shall rectify the fault / deficiency 
by means of our choice within a reasonable period of 
time. Paragraph D. 8.3  shall apply  analogous ly.  
11.7 The terms “fault” / “deficiency” shall be taken to mean  
a)  in the case of the supply of hardware or software, 
non-conformances from the properties agreed in the 
respective specification, and  
 b)  in the case of Services, execution i n an impro per 
manner, or without due care and attention.   
11.8 If we are unable to repair  a fault/defect within a 
reasonable grace period, the customer shall be entitled to 
waive repair and to request a reasonable reduction of the 
costs  in the case of Services Based on Time and 
Workload or  of the service fee i n the case of the S ervice 
Contract. The reasonable reduction shall amount , at 
most,  to the costs paid by the customer for our Service s 
Based on T ime and Workload  in question  or, at most, to  
the annual  flat-rate service fee of the Service s Based on 
Service Contract for which we were unable  to provide  
warranty.  
 
 
 
 11.9 The warranty shall exclude all deficiencies and damage not 
demonstrably occurring as a result of faulty material or con -
struction , or imperf ection in the execution, such as 
depreciation due to ordinary wear and tear, or interference 
with equipment not supplied by us, or of inexpert 
intervention and modifications on the part of the customer 
or thir d parties not authorized by us.  
11.10 The custo mer shall have no rights and claims as a result of  
faults/ defects except for those set out explicitly in 
Paragraph D.11.  
12. Intellectual Property Rights and Third Party Claims  
12.1 We shall, to the extent that it is possible and reasonable 
that we recognize s uch a situ ation, make sure that the 
hardware and software supplied does not encroach upon 
the rights of third parties.  
If a third party should raise a legitimate claim arising from 
intellectual property rights (patents, etc.) or with respect to  
intellec tual proper ty rights relating to the delivery of 
hardware and software, we shall – at our discretion and 
expense – to exclu sion of any further claims, either  
a) obtain, from the person entitled to dispose of the 
intellectual property right conc erned, the right to u se 
this intellectual property right, or  
b) modify the parts that infringe intellectual property rights, 
or 
c) replace the parts that infringe intellectual property rights 
by parts that are not infringing, or  
d)  take back the parts aga inst restit ution of t he price paid 
by the customer.  
We shall be entitled to require appropriate restitution from 
the customer for use of the software.  
A claim is considered to be a legitimate claim only if it has 
either been acknowledged by us, or if it has been aw arded 
by a judicial decision not subject to appeal.  
12.2 The customer shall inform us immediately of any claim 
being raised against us on any legal ground by a third 
party. The customer shall not acknowledge any such 
claims. He shall assist us i n warding o ff such cl aims and 
support us in the con flict with the third party, in particular in 
a lawsuit, and he shall act in compliance with our written 
instructions. We shall refund to the customer all related 
expenses incurred by him to the extent the y are evide nced.  
13. Liability 
13.1 We shall be liable without limitation for personal damages 
for which we are responsible in accordance with the 
statutory provisions, and shall pay compensation for direct 
damage to tangible property for which we are responsi ble, 
up to an amount of CHF 1,000,000 (one million) per event, 
up to a maximum of CHF 2,000,000 (two million) per 
calendar year.  
13.2 In the event of loss of or damage to data and/or data 
storage media, we are not liable for cost relating to the 
restoratio n of lost o r damaged data.   
13.3 We shall not be liable if we are prevented, on grounds for 
which we are not responsible, from performing the Services 
in a timely or proper manner.  
13.4 Claims on the customer’s part extending beyond those 
expressly cited in these GTCS, in par ticular those 
stemming from warranty, delay, non -fulfilment and claims 
for damages – whatever their legal basis – and any liability 
for pecuniary damage, loss of profit, loss of use, production 
stoppages, operational interruption or th e rights of  third 
parties, and for all indirect or consequential damage shall 
be excluded, unless mandatory liability shall exist by virtue 
of unlawful intent or gross negligence.  
 
 
   
 
 
General Terms an d Conditions for Service - Siem ens Energy  (Version 04.2021) 
  
  
 
© Siemens Energ y 202 1  Seite 4 von 4 
 14. Disclosure of the Business Relationship and of Data 
and Information  
14.1 The custome r agrees that all data and information 
required for the business relationships or resulting from 
said relation ships, especially contractual documents and 
papers as well  as data and information necessary for the 
performance of the Service s of and a bout the  customer 
and their auxiliary persons (Hilfspersonen) may also be 
stored outside Switzerland. Furthermore, all this data and 
information may be disclosed to Siemens Energy  as well 
as to their associated companies for corresponding 
processing, especiall y for provi ding services, fulfilment of 
legal requirements or for Siemens -internal audit and/or 
supervisory requirements; this always in compliance with 
respectively applicable data protection laws.  
15. Compliance with Export Control  Regulations  
15.1 Siemens Ene rgy shall not be obligated to fulfil this 
agreement if such fulfilment  is prevented by any 
impediments arising out of  national or international foreign 
trade or customs requirements or any embargoes or other 
sanctions.  
15.2 If Purchaser transfers goods (ha rdware and/ or software 
and/ or techno logy as well as corresponding 
documentation, regardless of the mode of provision ) 
delivered by Siemens Energy or works and services 
(including all kinds of technical support) performed by 
Siemens Energy to a third part y worldwide, Purchaser 
shall comply wi th all applicable national and international 
(re-) export control regulations. I n any event Purchaser 
shall comply with the (re -) export control regulations of 
Switzerland, Germany, of the European Union and of the 
United States of America.  
15.3 If require d to conduct export control checks, Purchaser, 
upon request by Siemens Energy, sh all promptly provide 
Siemens Energy with all information pertaining to 
particular end customer, destination and intended use of 
goods, wo rks and services provided by Siemens E nergy, 
as well as any export control restrictions existing.  
15.4 Purchaser shall indem nify and hold harmless Siemens 
Energy from and against any claim, proceeding, action, 
fine, loss, cost and damages arising out of or  relating to 
any noncompliance with ex port control regulations by 
Purchaser, and Purchaser shall compensate Siemens 
Energy f or all losses and expenses resulting thereof, 
unless such noncompliance was not caused by fault of 
the Purchaser. This provision doe s not imply a change in 
burden of proo f. 
16. Concluding Provisions  
16.1 Any amendments and supplements  to these GTCS and to 
any Service Contract must be made in writing to be valid. 
This requirement may be waived  only in writing.  
16.2 We shall be entitled to assign  these GTCS and any 
Service Contract or any rights and duties thereunder to a 
company within our group o f companies .  
16.3 Should individual provisions of these GTCS or and 
Service Contract be or become ineffective in part or in 
whole, or should it pr ove impossible to i mplement them in 
the intended manner for legal reasons, this shall not 
affect t he validity  of the remaining contract provisions. 
The parties shall replace the ineffective provision with an 
effective provision that approximates the econom ic 
intention of the  ineffective provision as closely as is 
legally possible.   
 
 17. Applicable Law and Arbitral Tr ibunal  
17.1 These GTCS and any Service Contract are governed by 
Swiss substantive law. The application of the United 
Nations Convention on Contract s for the Internati onal Sale 
of Goods (the Vienna Law on the International Sale of 
Goods) of April  11, 1980, shall be excluded.  
17.2 Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or in 
relation to this contract, including the validity, invalidity, 
breac h or termination th ereof, shall be settled by arbitration 
in accordance with the Swiss Rules of In ternational  
Arbitration of the Swiss Chambers of Commerce in force on 
the date when the notice of arbitration is submitted in 
accordance with these Rules. The  number of arbitrat ors 
shall be three. The seat of the arbitration shall be in Zurich, 
Switzerland . The arbit ral proceedings shall be conducted in 
English.  