 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase – Siemens Energy (“Siemens Energy”)  (Version 05.2023) 
 
© Siemens  Energy  2021 
1. General  
1.1 Our orders shall be binding if they are placed in writing. Oral and 
telephone agreements are confirmed by us in writing. The same 
shall apply for all amendments, supplements, specifications, etc.  
1.2 Unless otherwise agreed in writing for particular cases the 
present terms and conditions shall prevail for all our orders 
placed. Terms and conditions stipulated by supplier  shall be 
binding upon us if and to the extent we have expressly accepted 
them in w riting.  
1.3 Should business transactions with any supplier be carried out 
mainly via EDI, the conditions to be applied shall previously be 
agreed upon in writing, specifying both the business partners and 
the respective business transactions.  
1.4 Third par ties within the meaning of these terms and conditions 
are also subsidiaries, holding and group companies.  
2. Rights of Use, Rights of Development Designs, Open 
Source Software  
2.1 Supplier shall grant us the worldwide, perpetual, non-exclusive, 
transferable right of use for the standard software included in the 
service. Supplier shall guarantee that it has the relevant rights of 
use and rights of sale at its own disposal and shall indemnify us 
from any claims of the third parties i n connection with 
infringements of those rights.  
2.2 As far as construction or development results emerge from the 
performance of the services, in case of a construction or 
development order, we shall hold property and exclusive use of 
all construction and  development results deriving there from. 
Without our express written consent the constructions and 
developments shall neither be made available to third parties in 
whole or in part nor used for own or other purposes.  
2.3 Supplier shall inform us - at the latest at the time the order is 
confirmed - whether the products and services to be delivered 
contain open source components.  
 In the context of this provision “open source components” means 
any software, hardware or other information that is provided 
royalty-free by the respective licensor to any user on the basis of 
a license with the right to modify and/or to distribute (e.g. GNU 
General Public License (GPL), the GNU Lesser GPL (LGPL), or 
the MIT License). Should the products and services delivered by 
supplier contain open source components, supplier shall comply 
with all applicable open source license terms and shall grant all 
those rights to us and provide all information which we need in 
order to comply himself with the applicable license terms. In 
particular, supplier must deliver to us promptly after the order is 
confirmed the following:  
- A schedule of all open source components used, indicating 
the relevant license, its version and including a copy of the 
complete text of such license and including a reference to 
copyright and/or authorship. Such schedule must have an 
understandable structure and contain a table of contents.  
- The complete source code of the relevant open source 
software, including scripts and information regarding its 
generating en vironment insofar as the applicable open 
source conditions require this.  
2.4  Supplier shall by the time of order confirmation at the latest 
inform us in writing whether any open source licenses used by 
supplier might be subject to a Copyleft Effect which could affect 
our products. In the context of this provision, “Copyleft Effect“ 
means that the provisions of the open source license require that 
certain of supplier’s products, as well as any products derived 
from such products, may only be redistributed in accordance with 
the terms of the open source license, e.g. only if the source code is disclosed. In case any open source licenses used by supplier 
are subj ect to a “Copyleft Effect” as defined above, then we are  
entitled to cancel the order within two weeks of receipt of this 
information.  
3. Documents and Auxiliary Material  
3.1 Documents (drawings; manufacturing, testing and delivery 
instructions; etc.) and other operating or auxiliary material 
(samples, models, etc.) we made available shall remain our 
property and shall be marked accordingly.  
3.2 Without our express written consent the abovementioned 
documents shall neither be copied nor made available to third 
parties and be used for no other purpose but completing our 
order. The documents and auxiliary material shall be returned to 
us intact any time upon our request, at the latest, however, upon 
delivery of the goods, or - if expres sly agreed - be stored by 
supplier  until revoked.  
3.3 Supplier  shall be liable for any damage to our property and thus 
obliged to store and treat the documents and auxiliary material 
appropriately, and to insure them, in agreement with us, against 
possible  damage.  
4. Prices and Terms of Payment  
4.1 The agreed prices are firm prices. Change in prices and 
respective other reservations shall only be binding if and to the 
extent they are expressly acknowledged by us in writing.  
4.2 Each delivery shall be invoic ed immediately upon shipping. A 
separate invoice shall be made out for each delivery indicating 
both VAT and our job order code. Invoices lacking this 
information are rejected. Registered c.o.d. consignments are not 
accepted.  
4.3 Our payments are effected irrespective of an examination of the 
goods upon receipt at their destination. Consequently, our 
payments or partial payments do not constitute acknowledgment 
of quantity, price and quality. Thus, we shall still be fully entitled 
to legal claims even after  payment of the goods.  
4.4 Unless provided otherwise, our payments shall be settled not 
later than on the 90th day counting from the date of the invoice.  
4.5 Assignment of claims against us as well as setting off against 
counterclaims is not permitted.  
5. Deliveries and Services of the Supplier  
5.1 The quantities specified in our orders shall be complied with. We 
reserve the right to place surplus parts at the disposal of supplier  
against full compensation of our expenses and in case of 
reduce d quantity to insist on the performance of the quantity 
ordered.  
5.2 Deliveries of supplier s and sub -contractors are object of our 
quality assurance system pursuant to ISO9001 / EN29001. Our 
suppliers and sub -contractors are appraised accordingly.  
5.3 Shou ld supplier deliver products, substances of which are set out 
in the so -called “List of Declarable Substances” 
(www.bomcheck.net/suppliers/ Unrestricted -and-declarable -
substances -list) applicable at the time of the order or which are 
subject to statutorily  imposed substance restrictions and/or 
information requirements (e. g. REACH, RoHS), supplier shall 
declare such substances in the web database BOMcheck 
(www.BOMcheck.net) no later than the date of first delivery of 
products.  
5.4 Should the delivery contain goods which – according to 
international regulations – are classified as dangerous goods, 
supplier will inform us hereof in a form agreed upon between 
supplier and us, but in no case later than the date of order 
confirmation.  
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase – Siemens Energy (“Siemens Energy”)  (Version 05.2023) 
 
© Siemens  Energy  2021 
6. Packing and Shipping  
6.1 Packing shall be adapted to the goods and the mode of 
transportation. Preference shall be given to environmentally 
friendly packaging material. Loss and damage of goods 
attributable to defective packing shall be at supplier 's expe nse. 
6.2 Each delivery / partial delivery shall contain a delivery note 
specifying our job order code, article no. and description of 
goods, net and gross weight and / or exact number of pieces. 
Partial deliveries shall be indicated as such.  
6.3 Each docum ent regarding the order shall at least specify our job 
order code.  
7. Dates and Periods of Delivery, Default in Delivery  
7.1 The dates and periods of delivery fixed by us shall be binding 
(also for partial deliveries). They shall be regarded as observed 
if the goods arrive at their destination prior to the expiration of the 
dates and periods fixed.  
7.2 Failure to observe the agreed dates and periods of delivery (also 
for partial deliveries) shall entitle us to waive performance of the 
service without granti ng an additional period of time, and to 
withdraw from the contract. Legal claims for damages shall be 
reserved.  
7.3 For deliveries that effected earlier than agreed, we shall reserve 
the right to pay the respective invoice at the agreed time of 
delivery.  
7.4 If a speedy dispatch (freight, express delivery, etc.) is necessary 
due to delayed delivery, the additional freight charges shall be 
borne by supplier . Additional expenses for not required express 
deliveries shall also be borne by supplier . 
8. Place of Performance, Passage of Benefit and Risk  
8.1 The place of performance for the delivery of goods is their 
destination, and for the payment it is our domicile.  
8.2 Upon delivery of the goods at their destination benefit and risk 
are passed to us.  
9. Examination, Warranty, Liability for Defects  
9.1 Supplier  shall examine the quantity and quality of the goods 
before they are shipped.  
9.2 Supplier  shall be  liable that the services according to the contract 
have no legal or physical defects and are both in perfect condition 
and made with high -quality raw materials fit for the intended use.  
9.3 The obligation of immediate examination and notification 
accordin g to Art 201 CO shall be waived. By the acceptance of 
our purchase order supplier  recognizes order notifications of 
defects without adherence to a notification period as obtained in 
time.  
9.4 The right to claims for rescission of sale, reduction in price, 
improvement or replacement and damages (Art. 205 et seq. and 
368 CO) is reserved. Furthermore, we reserve the right to retain 
the payment fully or partly until, (i) if we require replacement, 
supplier  has fulfilled his duty to deliver a faultless replaceme nt or 
(ii) the circumstances regarding any rescission of sale, reduction 
in price and damages have been settled bindingly.  
9.5 We do not accept reduction of the warranty periods provided by 
the law. In any case the warranty period shall be not less than 2 
years starting with receiving respectively acceptance on the 
occasion of a separately agreed formal acceptance test 
(whichever occurs later).  
10.  Product Liability  
 We will immediately notify supplier  of any defect in the product 
known to us, if the defect caused or could cause an accident 
resulting in death, personal injury or material damage, and discuss the steps to be taken together with supplier . Supplier  
shall support us in the dispute with the i njured and indemnify us 
against legitimate claims as well as for costs of any recall action 
attributable to defects in the goods for which supplier  is 
responsible.  
11. Liability  
 Supplier  shall fully indemnify us from any harm or claims in 
connection with services, as well as from any claims of third 
parties, regardless of their legal cause, be it warranty, default, 
product liability, infringement of industrial and intellectual 
property rights or any other cause.  
12. Confidentiality  
 Supplier shall not mak e available to any third party any 
information obtained from us or the present business 
relationship. Insofar as we agree to any subcontracting to a third 
party, such third party shall agree to such terms in writing.  
13. Disclosure of the Business Relation ship, Data and 
Information  
 Supplier  shall agree that all data and information required for the 
business relationships or resulting from said relationships, 
especially contractual documents and papers as well as data and 
information necessary for the perfo rmance of the contract of and 
about supplier  and their auxiliary persons (Hilfspersonen) may 
also be stored outside Switzerland. Furthermore, all this data and 
information may be disclosed to Siemens AG as well as to their 
associated companies for correspo nding processing, especially 
for providing services, fulfillment of legal requirements or for 
Siemens -internal audit and/or supervisory requirements; this 
always in compliance with respectively applicable data protection 
laws.  
14. Code of Conduct for Suppliers  
 Supplier  is obliged to comply with the laws of the applicable legal 
system(s). In particular, supplier  will not engage, actively or 
passively, nor directly or indirectly in any form of bribery, in any 
violation of basic human rights of employees  or any child labor. 
Moreover, supplier  will take responsibility for the health and 
safety of its employees, supplier  will act in accordance with the 
applicable environmental laws and will use best efforts to 
promote this Code of Conduct among its supplier s. In addition to 
other rights and remedies we may have, we may terminate the 
contract and/or any purchase order issued there under in case of 
breach of these obligations by supplier . However, provided that 
supplier’s breach of contract is capable of remed y, our right to 
terminate is subject to the proviso that such breach has not been 
remedied by supplier  within a reasonable grace period set by us.  
15. Cybersecurity  
15.1 Supplier shall take appropriate organizational and technical 
measures to ensure the c onfidentiality, authenticity, integrity and 
availability of Supplier Operations as well as products and 
services. These measures shall be consistent with good industry 
practice and shall include an appropriate information security 
management system consist ent with standards such as ISO/IEC 
27001 or IEC 62443 (to the extent applicable).  
15.2 “Supplier Operations” means all assets, processes and systems 
(including information systems), data (including Customer  data), 
personnel, and sites, used or processed by supplier from time to 
time in the performance of this contract.  
15.3 Should products or services contain software, firmware, or 
chipsets:  
15.3.1  Supplier shall implement appropriate standards, processes a nd 
methods to prevent, identify, evaluate and repair any 
vulnerabilities, malicious code, and security incidents in products 
and services which shall be consistent with good industry 
 
 
General Terms and Conditions of Purchase – Siemens Energy (“Siemens Energy”)  (Version 05.2023) 
 
© Siemens  Energy  2021 
practice and standards such as ISO/IEC 27001 or IEC 62443 (to 
the extent applicable);  
15.3.2  Supplier shall continue to support and provide services to repair, 
update, upgrade and maintain products and services including 
the provision of patches to us remedying vulnerabilities for the 
reasonable lifetime of the products and services;  
15.3.3  Supplie r shall provide to us a bill of materials identifying all third -
party software components contained in the products. Third -
party software shall be up -to-date at the time of delivery;  
15.3.4  Supplier shall grant to us the right, but we shall not be obliged,  to 
test or have tested products for malicious code and vulnerabilities 
at any time, and shall adequately support us;  
15.3.5  Supplier shall provide us a contact for all information security 
related issues (available during business hours).  
15.4 Supplier s hall promptly report to us all relevant information 
security incidents occurred or suspected and vulnerabilities 
discovered in any Supplier Operations, services and products, if 
and to the extent we are or are likely to be materially affected.  
15.5 Suppli er shall take appropriate measures to achieve that its 
subcontractors and suppliers shall, within a reasonable time, be 
bound by obligations similar to the provisions of this section 15.    
15.6 Upon our request, supplier shall provide written evidence of its 
compliance with this section 15 including generally accepted 
audit reports (e.g. SSAE -16 SOC 2 Type II).  
16. Export control and Foreign Trade Data Regulations  
16.1 For all Products to be delivered and Services to be provided 
according to this Agreement Supplier shall comply with all 
applicable export control, customs and foreign trade regulations 
(“Foreign Trade Regulations”) and shall obtain all necessary 
export lic enses, unless Buyer or any party other than Supplier is 
required to apply for the export licenses pursuant to the 
applicable Foreign Trade Regulations.  
Supplier  represents and warrants that none of its Products nor its 
Services provided under this Agreemen t contain products and/or 
services restricted for import under the Foreign Trade 
Regulations which, in any case, include the Council Regulations 
(EU) 833/2014, 692/2014, 2022/263 or 765/2006, each as 
amended, and import restrictions enforced by the U.S. Cu stoms 
and Border Protection .  
16.2 Supplier shall advise us in writing within  two weeks following the 
receipt of the order  - and in case of any change s without undue 
delay - of any information and data required by us to comply with 
all Foreign Trade Regulations in case of export and import as 
well as re -export , including without limitation : 
- All applicable export list numbers, including the Export 
Control Classification Numbe r according to the U.S. 
Commerce Control List (ECCN); and  
- the statistical commodity code according to the current 
commodity classification for foreign trade statistics and the 
HS (Harmonized System) coding; and  
- the country of origin (non-preferential origin); and upon our 
request: Supplier’s declaration for preferential origin (in case 
of European suppliers) or preferential certificates (in case of 
non-European suppliers).  
16.3 Supplier shall be liable for any expenses and/or damage i ncurred 
by Buyer due to any breach of the obligations according to 16.1 
to 16.3. 
 
17. Reservation Clause   We shall not be obligated to fulfill this agreement if such 
fulfillment is prevented by any impediments arising out of national 
or international foreign trade or customs requirements or any 
embargoes or other sanctions.  
18. Applicable Law  
 The present contractual relationship shall be governed by Swiss 
substantive law. The application of the United Nations 
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods of 
April 11, 1980 ("the Vienna Law on the International Sale of 
Goods") shall be excluded . 
19. Jurisdiction  
 Place of jurisdiction shall be Zurich. We reserve ourselves, 
however, the right to sue supplier at its seat.   
 