Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 GUIDANCE  
Guidance on requirements for substances 
in articles  
December  2015  
Version 3.0   
2 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
LEGAL NOTE  
 
This document aims to assist users in complying wit h their obligations under the REACH 
Regulation. However, users are reminded that the text of the REACH Regulation is the only 
authentic legal reference and that the information in this document does not constitute legal advice.  Usage of the information re mains under the sole responsibility of the user. The 
European Chemicals Agency does not accept any liability with regard to the use that may be made of the information contained in this document . 
  
Guidance on  requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 
  
Reference : ECHA-15-G-10-EN 
ISBN:  978-92-9247- 624-3 
Publ.date :  December 2015  
Language :  EN 
© European Chemicals Agency, 2015 
Reproduction is authorised provided the source is fully acknowledged in the form  
“Source: European Chemicals Agency, http://echa.europa.eu/”, and provided written notification 
is given to the ECHA Communica tion Unit ( publications@echa.europa.eu ). 
 
If you have questions or comments in relation to this document please send them (indicating the 
document reference, issue date, chapter and/or page of the document  which your comment 
refers to) using the Guidance feedback form. The feedback form can be accessed via the ECHA 
Guidance website or directly via the following link: 
https://c omments.echa.europa.eu/comments_cms/FeedbackGuidance.aspx  
European Chemicals Agency  
Mailing address: P.O. Box 400, FI -00121 Helsinki, Finland  
Visiting address: Annankatu 1 8, Helsinki, Finland  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 3 
 
Preface  
 
This guidance document is part of a series of gui dance documents that are aimed at helping 
stakeholders prepare for fulfilling their obligations under the REACH Regulation. These documents 
cover detailed guidance on a range of essential REACH processes as well as for some specific 
scientific and/or technical methods that industry or authorities need to make use of under REACH.  
The first version of this guidance document was drafted and discussed within a REACH Implementation Project (RIP) led by the European Commission services, involving all stakeholder s: 
Member States, industry and non- governmental organisations. The European Chemicals Agency 
(ECHA) updates this and other guidance documents following the 
Consultation procedure on 
guidance . These guidance documents can be obtained via the website of ECHA . Further guidance 
documents will be published on this website when they are finalised or  updated.  
This document relates to the REACH Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 18 December 20061 and its amendments as of 31 August 2011.  
 
 
 
  
                                           
1 Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 
concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), 
establishing a European Chemicals Agency, amending Directive 1999/45/EC and repealing Council 
Regulation (EEC) No 793/93 and Commission Regulation (EC) No 1488/94 as well as Council Directive 76/769/EEC and Commission Directives 91/155/E EC, 93/67/EEC, 93/105/EC and 
2000/21/EC (OJ L 396, 30.12.2006).  
4 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Document History  
 
Version  Changes  Date  
Version 1  First edition  May 2008 
Version 2.0  Second  edition  - revised structure and updated content  April 2011  
Version 3.0 Fast-track update to make “quick” corrections to the parts with 
references to the 0.1% limit that are no longer consistent with 
the co nclusions of the judgement  of the Court of Justice of 10 
September 2015 in case C -106/14. Reformatted to current 
ECHA corporate image.  Updated reference to toy safety 
directive (Directive 2009/48/EC).  December  
2015 
   
 
 
Note to the reader:  
 As indicated in the document history ab ove, the present Version ( 3.0) of t his guidance  is a 
temporary (fast-track) update from Version 2.0 f ollowing the judgement of the Court of Justice 
of 10 September 2015 in case C -106/14. The guidance will be subject to a further, fully -
consulted, update pr ocess during 2016.  Where examples which were present in Version 2.0 have 
been removed (pending replacement or update to align with the judgement) from a section still 
retained in the current document this is indicated in t he text.   
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 5 
 
1 Table of Contents 
1 GENERAL INTRODUCTION  7 
1.1 What is this guidance about and who is it for?  ................................ ...................  7 
1.2 Structure of the guidance  ................................ ................................ ................  9 
1.3 Topics covered by other guidance documents  ................................ ..................  10 
2 DECIDING WHAT IS AN ARTICLE UNDER REACH  11 
2.1 The function of an object  ................................ ................................ ..............  11 
2.2 The shape, surface and design of an object  ................................ .....................  11 
2.3 Packaging  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 12 
2.4 Deciding whether an object is an article or not  ................................ .................  13 
2.5 Documentation  ................................ ................................ ............................  17 
3 SUBSTANCES INTENDED TO BE RELEASED FROM ARTICLES  18 
3.1 Intended release of substances from articles  ................................ ...................  18 
3.2 Checking requirements for substances intended to be released from articles  ....... 20 
3.3 Registration of substances in articles  ................................ ..............................  22 
4 REQUIREMENTS CONCERN ING SUBSTANCES OF VE RY HIGH CONCERN  23 
4.1 Candidate List for authorisation  ................................ ................................ ..... 23 
4.2 Notification according to Article 7(2)  ................................ ...............................  24 
4.3 Obligations according to Article 33  ................................ ................................ . 25 
4.3.1  Communicating information accord ing to Article 33  26 
4.4 26 
4.5 Determining the total amount of a SVHC on the Candidate List from different 
articles in which it  is present at above 0.1% w/w  ................................ .............  27 
5 OBTAINING INFORMATION ON SUBSTANCES IN A RTICLES  28 
5.1 Information via the supply chain  ................................ ................................ .... 28 
5.1.1.  Standardised information from suppliers in the EEA  28 
5.1.2.  Requesting information up the supply chain  29 
5.2 Chemical analysis of substances in articles  ................................ ......................  31 
5.2.1  Difficulties of chemical analyses  32 
5.2.2  Planning chemical analyses of substances in articles  32 
6 EXEMPTIONS FROM REQU IREMENTS FOR SUBSTAN CES IN ARTICLES  34 
6.1 General exemption of substances from registration and notification  ....................  34 
6.2 Exemption from registration and notification of substances recovered  .................  34 
6.3 Exposure based exemption from notification  ................................ ....................  34 
6.3.1  Potential for release  35 
6.4 Exemption fr om registration and notification of substances already registered for a 
use ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  36 
6.4.1  Information sources to determine if a substance is already registered for a use  37 
APPENDIX 1.  BORDERLINE CASES OF SUBSTANCES/MIXTURES IN CONTAINERS OR 
CARRIER MATERIALS  39 
APPENDIX 2.  EXAMPLES OF SETTING THE BORDERLINE IN TH E SEQUENCE  OF 
PROCESSING NATURAL O R SYNTHETIC MATERIAL S INTO FINAL ARTICLE S 47 
APPENDIX 3. ILLUSTRA TIVE CASES FOR CHECKING IF REQUIREMENTS UNDER 
6 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
ARTICLE 7 AND ARTICLE 33 APPLY  60 
APPENDIX 4. INFORMAT ION SOURCES ON SUBST ANCES IN ARTICLES  65 
APPENDIX 5.  METHODS FOR THE SAMP LING AND ANALYSIS OF  SUBSTANCES IN 
ARTICLES  68 
APPENDIX 6.  OTHER LEGISLATION RE STRICTING THE USE OF  SUBSTANCES IN 
ARTICLES  72 
APPENDIX 7.  PARTS OF THE REACH R EGULATION OF PARTICULAR RELE VANCE  75 
 
Table of Contents -  Tables  
Table 1:      Obligations described in the present guidance ...........................................................8  
Table 2:      Summary of borderline cases described in Appendix 1 ............................................. 39 
Table 3:  Borderline cases of substances/mixtures in containers (continued in table 4) .............. 40 
Table 4:  Borderline cases of substances/mixtures in containers (continuation of table 3)  .......... 41 
Table 5:  Additional indicative questions for borderline cases of subs./mix tures in containers  ..... 43 
Table 6:  Borderline cases of substances/mixtures on carrier materials ................................... 44 
Table 7:  Applying indicative questions to pressure sensitive adhesive tapes  ............................ 45 
Table 8:  Applying additional indicative questions to pressure sensitive adhesive tapes  ............. 46 
Table 9:  Applying indicative questions to different stages of aluminium processing (part 1)  ...... 49 
Table 10:     Applying indicative questions to different stages of aluminium processing  (part 2) ...... 52 
Table 11:     Applying indicative questions to different stages of textile/non -woven processing  ....... 54 
Table 12:     Ap plying indicative questions to different stages of polymer processing  ..................... 57 
Table 13:  Applying indicative questions to different stages of paper processing  ......................... 59 
Table 14:  Information on D -limonene in the toys  ................................................................... 61 
 
Table of Figures  
Figure 1:General process of identifying obligations for substances in  articles according to Articles 7 and 33
 ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 9 
Figure 2: Decision -making on whether an object is an article or not  ............................................ 14 
Figure 3: Transition from bauxite to final aluminium products  .................................................... 48 
Figure 4: Transition from raw materials to final textile/non -woven products  .................................  53 
Figure 5: Transition from crude oil to plastic products  ............................................................... 56 
Figure 6: Illustrative example of the general transition point from wood to paper articles  .............. 58 
  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 7 
 
1 GENERAL INTRODUCTION  
This guidance interacts with several other REACH guidance documents. As a general principle, 
the current document will not repeat what is in other guidance documents, unless found 
absolutely necessary for the purpose of this guidance. Consequently, there are several 
references to other guidance documents and tools, which can be found on the website of ECHA . 
1.1 What is this guidance about a nd who is it for?  
This guidance document explains and illustrates the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 
(REACH Regulation) that apply to substances in articles2. It is aimed at:  
• Persons responsible for REACH compliance within companies producing, importing and/or 
supplying articles in the European Economic Area (EEA), in particular purchasing, 
production and sales managers.  
• Only Representatives3 of non -EEA companies producing and exporting articles to the EEA.  
• Experts from industry associations and  other stakeholder organisations informing 
companies about the requirements for substances in articles under REACH.  
The guidance particularly assists companies in deciding if they have to fulfil registration, 
notification and/or communication requirements related to substances in articles (these 
obligations are outlined in table 1). This might be the case for companies producing, importing 
and/or supplying articles, who, like industry in general, have the responsibility to determine 
their obligations under REACH.  
In this context, a company is an article producer4 if it produces articles within the EEA, 
regardless of how the articles are produced and where they are placed on the market. An 
article importer5 is any company located inside the EEA that imports a rticles from countries 
that are located outside the EEA. Article producers and importers (as well as other actors in the 
supply chain such as retailers) are also article suppliers6, if they place articles on the market 
in the EEA. Thus, the role of article  supplier is irrespective of whether the supplier produces the 
articles himself or whether he purchases them (inside or outside of the EEA).  
Please note that companies may have also other roles than those mentioned above 
and thus have further obligations t han those described in the present guidance (see 
also section 1.3). If an article producer, for example, purchases substances inside the EEA for 
use in the production process of his articles, he also has to fulfil downstream user requirements.  
  
                                           
2 article: means an object which during production is given a special shape, surface or design which 
determines its function to a greater degree than does its chemical composition (Article 3(3 )). 
3 Non-EEA producers of articles may appoint ‘Only Representatives’ to fulfil all REACH obligations of 
the importers of their articles in the EEA. The role and obligations of an Only Representative are 
explained in detail in section 1.5.3.4 of the Guidance on registration . 
4 producer of an article: means any natural or legal person who makes or assembles an article within 
the Community (Article 3(4)).  
5 importer: me ans any natural or legal person established within the Community who is responsible for 
import (Article 3(11)); import: means the physical introduction into the customs territory of the 
Community (Article 3(10)).  
6 supplier of an article: means any produce r or importer of an article, distributor or other actor in the 
supply chain placing an article on the market (Article 3(33)), including retailers (Article 3(14)).  
8 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
If the su bstances are instead purchased outside of the EEA, the article producer has the role of 
importer of substances along with the related obligations, such as registration. Therefore, in 
general, companies are advised to identify their obligations by running the Navigator  on the 
ECHA website. The Navigator helps industry to determine its obligations under REACH and find 
the appropriate guidance on how to fulfil these obligations.  
 
Table 1: Obligations described in the present guidance  
Obligation:  Registration  
of substances in 
articles  Notification  
of substances in 
articles  Communication  
of information  
on substances in 
articles  
legal basis  
in REACH Regulation  Article 7(1)  Article 7(2)  Article 33  
actors concerned  article producers  
and article 
importers  article producers  
and article 
importers  article suppliers  
substances 
concerned  substances intended  
to be released  
from articles  substances included  
in Candidate List of  
Substan ces of Very 
High Concern for 
authorisation  substances included  
in Candidate List of  
Substances of Very 
High Concern for 
authorisation  
tonnage threshold  1 tonne per year  1 tonne per year  - 
concentration  
in article threshold  - 0.1% (w/w)  0.1% (w/w)  
exem ption from obligation possible on the basis of:  
yes yes no  
no yes no  
 
  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 9 
 
1.2 Structure of the guidance  
The present document is structured along the following questions, whereas each chapter 
provides guidance for answering one of the questions.  
1. Do I need th is guidance? (see chapter 1)  
2. Do I have an article? (see chapter 2)  
3. Is there an intended release of substances from my article and what are the consequences of this (i.e. my obligations)? (see chapter 3)  
4. Does the composition of my article lead to particular  obligations? (see chapter 4)  
5. How can I obtain further information on the substances in my article? (see chapter 5)  
6. Can I benefit from any exemption from an obligation concerning substances in articles?  
(see chapter 6)  
The flowchart below gives an overview  of the major steps involved in identifying one’s 
obligations for substances in articles and directs the reader of the guidance to the corresponding chapters.  
 
Figure 1: General process of identifying obligations for substances in  articles 
according to Articles 7 and 33  Check if object
produced , imported and /or 
placed on the market
is an article (chapter 2)
Yes
insufficient
information
One or more obligations
for substances in articlesCheck if
- registration requirements (chapter 3),
- notification requirements and /or
- communication requirements (chapter 4)
apply .NoNo obligations
for substances in articlesObtain further information
on substances in articles 
(chapter 5)
Check if exemptions
from obligations apply
(chapter 6)Object
Yes
NoNo
exemptions apply
only to some of the requirements identifiedYesexemptions apply
to all requirements identified
10 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
1.3 Topics covered by other guidance documents  
Authorisation and restriction requirements do not only affect companies using substances for the 
production of articles, but downstream users in general. Therefore, detail ed guidance on these 
procedures is given in other guidance documents as outlined below.  
Substances being (an integral) part of imported articles cannot be subject to authorisation . 
This means that in order to import articles into the EEA an authorisation c annot be required.  
However, if an EEA -based producer of articles incorporates a substance as such or in a mixture7 
into these articles, that use of the substance may have to be authorised (if the substance is 
listed in REACH Annex XIV). If such a substance is acquired from the EEA market, the supplier 
has to give this information in Section 16 of the safety data sheet or via information according 
to Article 32. If the article producer imports such substances himself, he has to apply for 
authorisation in ord er to continue his use(s) of the substances. According to article 3(24) of the 
REACH Regulation, the production of an article is considered as a use. Details on the 
authorisation procedure and notifying the use of authorised substances can be found in chap ter 
8 of the Guidance for downstream users  and in the Guidance on application for authorisation . 
Furthermore, the content of substances in articles can be restricted or banned under the 
restrictions procedure. Therefore, article producers and importers have to follow the conditions 
outlined in Annex XVII of the REACH Regulation as amended8. Details on compliance with 
restrictions under REACH are given in chapter 8 of the Guidance for downstream users . Please 
note that other legislation concerning restrictions limiting the use of hazardous substances in 
articles still apply separately from REACH. Examples are the General Products Safety Directive 
2001/95/EEC and product specific legislation such as Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of 
the Use of Certain Hazardous Subst ances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS), 
Directive 2009/48/EC on toys or Directive 2000/53/EC on End of Life Vehicles (ELVs). A list of 
relevant legislation aside from REACH is provided in Appendix 6 of this guidance.  
 
                                           
7 Following the entry into force of the Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliame nt and 
of the Council of 16 December 2008 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and 
mixtures, amending and repealing Directives 67/548/EEC and 1999/45/EC, and amending Regulation 
(EC) No 1907/2006, the term “preparation” within the meani ng of Article 3(2) of REACH was 
replaced by the term “mixture”. Thus, the word “mixture” in this guidance document has the same meaning as the word “preparation” in other (older) guidance documents.  
8 Please note that the REACH Regulation can be changed th rough legal amendments and that all 
amending Regulations passed have to be taken into account when looking into the legal text. 
The Regulations amending the REACH Regulation can be found on ECHA’s website .  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 11 
 
2 DECIDING WHAT IS AN ARTI CLE UNDER REACH  
When determining if and which requirements apply, the first step is to check whether the 
objects9 produced, imported and/or placed on the market are considered to be articles 
under REACH or not.  
An article is generally understood to be an object composed of one or more substances or mixtures given a specific shape, surface or design. It may be produced from natural materials, such as wood or wool, or from synthetic ones, such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC). 
Objects  may be simple  articles , like a paper sheet  but can also be very complex, like a 
laptop computer, consisting of many articles . Most of the commonly used objects in 
private households and industries are articles, e.g. furniture, clothes, vehicles, books, 
toys, kitchen equipment and elec tronic equipment. Buildings are not considered to be 
articles, so long as they remain fixed to the land on which they stand
10. 
Article 3(3) of the REACH Regulation defines an article as “an object which during 
production is given a special shape, surface or  design whi ch determines its function to 
a greater degree than its chemical composition” . In order to determine whether or not an 
object fulfils the definition of an article under REACH, the object’s function and its characteristics need to be assessed.  
Please note that the definition of the status of objects under REACH does not affect 
legislation which is not based on the REACH definition of articles.  
2.1 The function of an object  
The term “function” in the article definition should be interpreted as meaning  the basic 
principle determining the use of the object rather than the degree of technical 
sophistication determining the quality of the result. In this sense, it may be helpful to look at the result of using an object and pay less attention to the quality  of the result. For 
example, the basic principle behind a printer cartridge is to bring ink onto paper. A higher 
degree of technical sophistication of the object “printer cartridge” may improve the 
functioning and the quality of the result but it does not change the function as such.  
2.2 The shape, surface and design of an object  
The shape, surface and design of an object represent its physical appearance and can be 
understood as other than chemical characteristics. Shape  means the three -dimensional 
form of an object, like depth, width and height. Surface  means the outermost layer of an 
object. Design  means the arrangement of the “elements of design” in such a way as to 
best accomplish a particular purpose. For example, the design of a textile may be determined by the twist of fibres in the yarn, the weave of threads in a fabric and the 
treatment of the surface of the textile.  
The shape, surface and design of an object are not to be confused with physical 
characteristics that result from the chemistry of the mate rial(s) the object is 
made of . Examples of such material characteristics or properties include: cleavage, 
density, ductility, electrical conductivity, hardness, magnetism, melting point, etc.  
  
                                           
9 The term “object” can in principle refer to any product in the supply chain.  
10  Buildings do not constitute articles under REACH so long as they remain fixed to the land on 
which they stand. The same applies to other (large) str uctures such as bridges, as well as 
smaller structures such as garden swings, etc., so long as they remain fixed to the land.  
12 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
 
Example 1: Blas ting grit  
 
Grit for abrasive blasting needs to  be hard and have sharp edges to be applied as 
blasting medium (e.g. for glass engraving or stone etching). The hardness and the 
cleavage properties of the materials used as blasting grit, such as corundum or steel, 
depend on the chemistry of these materia ls, and should not be confused with the shape, 
surface or design of an object.  
 
Furthermore it is to be noted that according to Article 3(3) of the REACH Regulation an 
article is an object which during production  is given a special shape, surface or design  
which determines its function to a greater degree than its chemical composition. This implies that the shape, surface or design must be deliberately determined and 
given during a production step . Articles that are assembled or joined together remain 
articles, as long as they keep a special shape, surface or design, or as long as they do not 
become waste.  
2.3 Packaging  
Substances, mixtures and articles can be contained inside of packaging, such as a carton, a plastic wrapping or a tin can. The packaging does not belong to the substance, 
mixture or article being packaged and is therefore to be considered as a separate article under REACH . Producers, importers and suppliers of packaging or of 
packaged substances, mixtures or articles have to fulfil the same requirements for that packaging as for any other article. Packaging with different functions needs to be 
considered separately (e.g. if an article is directly wrapped in plastic and then packed in a 
cardboard box, the plastic and the cardboard box should be cons idered separate articles).  
 
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 13 
 
2.4 Deciding whether an object is an article or not  
The workflow below provides guidance on deciding whether an object is an article or not.  
 Object
Step 1:
Identify the function
of the object
Object consists of
a substance or mixture
and an article  Check indicative questions 
under step 4Step 3:
Does the object contain a 
substance /mixture that can be 
separated from
the object ? Yes No
Check indicative questions 
under step 6
Object is an 
articleObject is
a substance
or mixtureMostly yesMostly yes Mostly yes Mostly noStep 2:
Are shape /surface /design 
more  relevant for the function 
than the chemical
composition ? Yes No
Not possible to unambiguously conclude yes or no
Check indicative questions 
under step 5Mostly no
Mostly no
14 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Figure 2: Decision -making on whether an object is an article or  not  
 
Step 1: Define the function of the object in line with section 2.1.  
Step 2: In many cases applying the REACH definition of an article is straightforward. The 
decision on whether an object is an article or not can then directly be made by comparing 
the importance of physical and chemical characteristics for achieving the object’s 
function. If you can unambiguously conclude that the shape, surface or design of 
the object is more  relevant for the function than its chemical composition, the 
object is an article. If the shape, surface or design is of equal or less importance 
than the chemical composition, it is a substance or mixture.  
 
Example 2: Wax crayon  
 
A wax crayon consists of paraffin wax and pigments and is used for colouring and 
drawing on paper. As its shape/surface/design are not more relevant for the function of 
the crayon (to bring pigment to paper) than its chemical composition, it is to be regarded 
as a mixture.  
 
If it is not possible to unambiguously conclude whether the object fulfils the 
REACH definition of an article or not, a deeper assessment is needed; for this 
proceed with step 3.  
Step 3: Determine if the object, which may be constructed in a very simple or highly 
sophisticated manner, contains a substance or mixture that can be physic ally separated 
from the object (e.g. by pouring or wringing out). The substance or mixture in question, 
which can be solid, liquid or gaseous, can be enclosed in the object (like e.g. the liquid in 
a thermometer or the aerosol in a spray can), or the objec t can carry it on its surface 
(like e.g. a wet cleaning wipe).  
If this applies to the object, proceed with step 4, otherwise proceed with step 6.  
Step 4: For determining whether the chemical content of the object is an integral part 
thereof (and therefore the object as a whole is an article as defined under REACH) or if it 
is a substance/mixture for which the rest of the object functions as a container or carrier 
material, the following indicative questions should be answered:  
Question 4a:  If the substance/ mixture were to be removed or separated from the object 
and used independently from it, would the substance/mixture still be capable in principle (though perhaps without convenience or sophistication) of 
carrying out the function defined under step 1?  
Question 4b: Does the object act mainly (i.e. according to the function defined under step 
1) as a container or carrier for release or controlled delivery of the 
substance/mixture or its reaction products?  
Question 4c:  Is the substance/mixture consumed (i.e. used up e.g. due to a chemical or 
physical modification) or eliminated (i.e. released from the object) during the use phase of the object, thereby rendering the object useless and 
leading to the end of its service life?  
If you can answer these questions predominantly with yes (i.e. 2 of 3) rather 
than no, then the object should be regarded as a combination of an article  
(functioning as a container or a carrier material) and a substance/mixture . 
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 15 
 
It is to be noted that an importer or supplier of such an objec t is also considered to be an 
importer or supplier of a substance/mixture. As such he might also have obligations other 
than those of importers and suppliers of articles described in this guidance document. 
This means that substances in a container or on a  carrier material might e.g. have to be 
registered, or be supplied with a safety data sheet. Importers and suppliers of a 
“combination of an article and a substance/mixture” therefore have to 
separately check if obligations for the article apply and if obl igations for the 
substance/mixture apply. Chapters 3 and 4 describe how to identify the obligations for 
the article; in order to identify the obligations for the substance/mixture (which is on the article's surface or enclosed in it) you are advised to run  the Navigator
. 
 
Example 3: Printer cartridge  
 
Answering the above indicative questions: 4a) if the toner/ink was moved from the 
cartridge, it would still be possible to bring it to paper, although with a loss of quality and 
convenience; 4b) the function of the cartridge is to hold the toner/ink in place inside a 
printer and it controls the speed and mode of release; 4c) the cartridge is disposed of 
without the toner/ink, which is consumed duri ng the service life of the cartridge. The 
answers to the questions allow the conclusion that a printer cartridge is a combination of 
an article (functioning as cont ainer) and a substance/mixture.  
 
Step 5: If the answers to the indicative questions under st ep 4 are mostly no, you should 
use the following questions to cross -check whether the object as a whole should indeed 
be considered as an article and not as a combination of an article (functioning as a 
container or a carrier material) and a substance/mixt ure.  
Question 5a:  If the substance/mixture were to be removed or separated from the object, 
would the object be unable to fulfil its intended purpose?  
Question 5b:  Is the main purpose of the object other than to deliver the 
substance/mixture or its reacti on products?  
Question 5c:  Is the object normally discarded with the substance/mixture at the end of 
its service life, i.e. at disposal?  
If you can answer these questions with yes rather than no, then the function of 
the object is likely to be determined ra ther by the physical properties shape, 
surface and design, than by the chemical composition. The object is then regarded as an article  with an integral substance/mixture (i.e. the 
substance/mixture forms an integral part of the article).  The substances (as such 
or in a mixture) that form an integral part of the article have only to be registered under 
the conditions described in section 3.2.  
 
Example 4: Thermome ter 
 
Answering the above questions: 5a) the empty thermometer would fail to show the 
temperature;  thus the object would no longer be useful; 5b) the main function of the 
thermometer is to show the temperature, this is not a delivery of a substance or mixture ; 
5c) the thermometer is normally disposed of together with its chemical content.  
So answering these questions leads to the conclusion that a thermometer is an article  
and the liquid within an integral part of it.  
Appendix 1  provides further examples of borderline cases of substances/mixtures in 
containers or on carrier materials.  
16 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Step 6: According  to the assessment made under step 3, the object does not contain 
a substance or mixture that can be physically separated. Deciding whether the object 
fulfils the REACH definition of an article or not may however still be  difficult in certain 
cases. Common  examples are raw materials and semi -finished products that are further 
processed to final articles, but other cases might exist.  In these cases, where making 
a decision is difficult, you may use the following indicative questions in order to better 
determ ine whether or not the object is an article. These questions can only be used to 
support the evaluation of the importance of the chemical composition versus the 
shape/surface/design in relation to the function and thus facilitate the application of the 
article definition.  
Question 6a: Does the object have a function othe r than being further processed?  
If the object predominantly has other functions (i.e. end -use functions), 
then this may be an indication that it is an article according to the definition of REACH.  
Question 6b: Does the seller place the object on the market and/or is the customer 
mainly interested in acquiring the object because of its 
shape/surface/design (and less becaus e of its chemical composition)?  
If the object is mainly put on the marke t or acquired because of its 
shape/surface/design, this is an indication that the object is an article.  
Question 6c:  When further processed, does the object undergo only “light processing”, 
i.e. no gross changes in shape?  
“Light processing”, such as drill ing, surface grinding or coating, may 
improve or modify an object’s shape, surface or design for carrying out a 
function and is thus frequently applied to objects which are already articles. 
Thus, if only “light processing” is applied, this is an indicatio n that th e 
object is an article.  
Processes leading to gross changes in shape, meaning changes of depth, 
width and height of an object, are not regarded as “light processing”. These 
can for example be primary shaping processes (such as casting or 
sintering)  or forming processes (such as extrusion, forging or rolling). If the 
object preserves at least one of its characteristic dimensions (depth, width 
and/or height) when further processed, the process can be regarded as 
“light processing”.  
Question 6d:  When f urther processed, does the chemical composition of the object 
remain the same?  
A change of the chemical composition in the next processing steps may 
indicate the object being a mixture. However, some treatments of an object which is an article may result in a change in its overall chemical 
composition, but not in the status of the object being an article. Examples are printing onto the surface, painting, applying coatings, dyeing etc.  
Not all questions may apply to all objects and the weight of evidence of  the answers to 
the questions may vary from case to case. However, in concluding whether the object is 
an article or not, the answer to various of the relevant indicative questions should be 
considered and not only the answer to one of them. Predominantly answering with 
yes to the questions indicates that the object is an article . Predominantly 
answering no to the questions indicates that the object is a substance or 
mixture . Appendix 2 illustrates how to apply these indicative questions and gives 
examples from four different industry sectors.  
 
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 17 
 
2.5 Documentation  
From Article 36(1)11 of the REACH Regulation it follows that downstream users (article 
producers are considered also as downstream users under REACH, if they use a 
substance or mixture in the production of their articles) have to keep available all the 
information they require to carry out their REACH obligations. But even if it has been 
identified that no obligations under REACH apply, these companies should consider 
documenting the results of their comp liance checking. This includes documenting the 
decision -making on whether certain products are articles, substances or mixtures as well 
as the checking if specific requirements apply for these. Documenting this is 
recommended to producers and importers of articles in general, as it facilitates 
demonstrating REACH compliance towards customers and 
(inspecting/enforcing) authorities.  
Checklists or other standardised tools developed by industry associations and other organisations can help companies to document  their REACH compliance checking.  
 
                                           
11 “Each manufacturer, importer, downstream user and distributor shall assemble and keep 
available all the information he requires to carry out his duties under this Regulation for 
a period of at least 10 years after he last manufactured, imported, supplied or used the 
substance or mixture […]”  
18 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
3 SUBSTANCES INTENDED TO BE RELEASED  
FROM ARTICLES  
3.1 Intended release of substances from articles  
Substances and mixtures may be released from articles under different circumstances. 
However, such a release of substances (wh ether the substance is released as such or as 
part of a mixture) is to be regarded as an intended release only in specific cases.  
A release of substances from articles is intended if it fulfils an accessory function  (to be 
differentiated from the main func tion according to section 2.1) which is deliberately 
planned and would not be achieved if the substance were not released. In the case of scented articles, for example, the fragrance substances need to be released in order for the article to be smelled. Consequently, substances that are released because of ageing of articles, because of wear and tear or as an unavoidable side -effect of the functioning of 
the article, are generally not intended releases, as the rel ease as such does not provide 
a function in itself.  
If the release of a substance from an object fulfils the main function of the object 
(defined according to section 2.1), the release is not regarded as “intended release” for 
the purpose of REACH. In this case the object u sually would be considered  as 
a combination of an article (functioning as a contain er or a carrier material) and 
a substance/mixture, and not as an article with intended release of a substance/mixture.  
An intended release of a substance from an article has furthermore to occur unde r 
(normal or reasonably foreseeable) conditions of use . This means that the substance 
release has to occur during the service life of the article. Hence, a substance release 
during the production or disposal phase of the article’s life cycle is not an inte nded 
release.  
Furthermore, the conditions of use during which the intended release occurs have to be 
“normal or reasonably foreseeable”.  Normal conditions of use  means the conditions 
associated with the main function of an article. They are frequently docu mented in the 
form of user manuals or instructions for use. Normal conditions of use for articles used by industrial or professional users may differ significantly from conditions that are “normal” for consumers. This may particularly be true for the frequ ency and duration of normal use 
as well as temperature, air exchange rates or conditions related to water contact. It is explicitly not a “normal condition of use” if the user of an article uses an article in a situation or manner that the supplier of the article has clearly recommended to avoid in 
writing, e.g. in the instructions or on the label of the article
12. Reasonably foreseeable 
conditions of use  mean conditions of use that can be anticipated as likely to occur 
because of the function and appearance  of the article (even though they are not normal 
conditions of use). For example when a small child does not know the function of an 
article but uses it for any purpose he associates with it, such as biting or licking it. In 
conclusion, a release which doe s not occur under normal or reasonably foreseeable 
conditions of use is not considered to be an intended release.  
                                           
12 Examples of the exclusion of specific conditions of use are care labels in textiles “do n ot wash 
above 30°C” and warning statements such as “keep out of children's reach” or “do not 
expose to high temperatures”.  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 19 
 
Example 5: Intended release of substances from articles  
In the case of a panty hose with lotion, the main function is to provide clothing. Th is 
main function is clearly unrelated to the lotion. The function of the lotion (skincare) is 
only an accessory function, which would not be achieved if the lotion were not released. 
As a consequence, the panty hose with lotion should be regarded as an art icle with an 
intended release.  
 
The following cases exemplify when a release of substances from an article is not 
considered to be an intended release:  
• A release occurs during processing of a semi -finished article, i.e. before marketing 
as a finished artic le.  
Example: a size13 is added to a fabric to improve its processability, whereas the size 
is released again during further wet processing of the textile.  
• A release occurs during use or maintenance of the article, but the released 
substances do not contrib ute to any function of the article.  
Example: washing of clothes by the consumer where remnants of different chemicals (dye, softener, starch, etc.) from processing are removed over some 
washing cycles.  
• A release of substances is an unavoidable side effect  of the functioning of the 
article, but the release does not contribute to the functioning of the article.  
Examples: wear and tear of materials under conditions of high friction, e.g. break 
linings, tyre; leakage of lubricant used to reduce the friction b etween two moving 
parts.  
• A release of substances formed during chemical reactions of any kind.  
Example: ozone released from copy machines, or release of combustion products 
from articles catching fire.  
• A release in an accident.  
Example: release of substa nces from a thermometer that drops and breaks.  
• A release caused by a long -term, extremely intensive use of an article.  
Example: release from a tool, which a consumer uses in disregard of the 
recommendations on operating time provided in the instructions o f use.  
  
                                           
13 A size is a chemical that is applied to a fabric to improve the strength and abrasion resistance 
of the yarn and reduce its hairine ss. After the weaving process the fabric is desized 
(washed).  
20 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
3.2 Checking requirements for substances intended to be 
released from articles  
Registration of substances in articles is required when all conditions listed under Article 
7(1) of the REACH Regulation are fulfilled:  
• The substance is intended to be rele ased under normal or reasonably foreseeable 
conditions of use14 (this can be established by applying the criteria in section 3.1).  
• The total amount of the substance present in all articles with intended release (i.e. including the amounts that are not intended to be released) produced or imported 
by one actor exceeds 1 tonne per year
15. 
Hence, in order to identify a possible obligation to register a substance in articles it needs 
to be checked if the 1 tonne per year threshold is exceeded. For this the identi ty and the 
tonnage of the actual substance do not always have to be known, as the 1 tonne per year threshold can initially be compared to:  
1. the total tonnage of all articles with intended release produced and/or imported, 
and to  
2. the total tonnage of all substances and mixtures intended to be released  
incorporated in these articles.  
If any of these tonnage values is equal to or remains under 1 tonne per year, the volume 
of individual substances intended to be released  incorporated in these articles will 
definitely also be below 1 tonne per year. Thus, registration of substances in these 
articles will clearly not be required. However, if the need to register cannot be excluded 
on the basis of these checks, the individual substances intended to be released  will have 
to be identified, and (unless you can benefit from an exemption from registration; see 
chapter 6) also their respective tonnage.  
The tonnage of a substance intended to be released contained in articles can be 
calculated using either of the following e quations:  
articlein subs articles subsmixturein subs articlein mixture articles article subs
Conc Vol VolConc Conc Number Weight Vol
. max .. max max .
⋅=⋅ ⋅ ⋅ =
 
Volsubs.: volume of a substance intended to be released  contained in articles [t/a].  
Weight article: weight of one article [t/article].  
Number articles: number of articles produced and/or imported per year [articles/a].  
Conc max mixture in article : maximum weight fraction of the mixture intended to be 
released  in the a rticle; value between 0 and 1 (50% = 0.5, 
25% = 0.25, 20% = 0.2, etc.).  
  
                                           
14 Both of the conditions must be met, i.e. the intention to be released and  the normal or 
reasonable foreseeable conditions of use.  
15 For a phase -in substance in articles that have been imported  or produced for at least three 
consecutive years, quantities per year shall be calculated on the basis of the average volume 
of this substance for the three preceding calendar years. Guidance on the calculation of 
yearly substance tonnages and examples can be found in section 1.6.2.3 of the Guidance on 
registration . 
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 21 
 
Conc max subs. in mixture : maximum weight fraction of the substance in the mixture 
intend ed to be released ; value between 0 and 1 (50% = 0.5, 
25% = 0.25, 20% = 0.2, etc.).  
Volarticles: volume of articles produced and/or imported per year [t/a].  
Conc max subs. in article : maximum weight fraction of the substance intended to be 
released  in the a rticle; value between 0 and 1 (50% = 0.5, 25% = 
0.25, 20% = 0.2, etc.).  
 
Example 6: Calculation of tonnage of a substance intended to be released  
 
A T-shirt contains a fragrance substance intended to be released.  
 
Assumption: The fragrance substance constit utes a maximum of 5% by weight of the T -
shirt, which is produced in an amount of 100 t/a. The fragrance substance is not 
contained in other articles of the same producer.  
 
atat
articlein subs articles subs Conc Vol Vol 5 05.0 100. max . =⋅= ⋅=  
 
Conclusion: The threshold of 1 t/a is exceeded; the producer  of the T -shirt must register 
the fragrance substance.  
 
When calculating the tonnage of a substance intended to be released contained in 
articles, the following points should be taken into account: 
• Not only the amounts intended to be released but the total  amount in the articles 
needs to be considered. Thus, if the substance is also part of the article matrix, 
these amounts have to be considered as well.  
• Only the amount of the substance that is actually in the final articles has to be 
considered,  
i.e. any a mount that is incorporated in the articles and then lost during further 
production steps (e.g. through evaporation or wash out) does not have to be 
considered.  
• If the same substance is intended to be released from different articles of one 
producer/import er, the substance volumes in all those articles have to be summed 
up16. 
Please note that according to Article 7(5), ECHA may decide that an article producer or 
importer must submit a registration for a substance contained in articles (unless already 
done un der Article 7(1)), if the amount of the substance exceeds 1 tonne per year and 
there is a suspicion that the substance is released from the articles resulting in risk to 
human health or the environment. This may apply also if the release of the substance 
from articles is not an intended release.  
                                           
16 Example: A company X imports three articles A, B, and C with 60 tonnes of a substance 
present in each . In article A the substance is not intended to be released, in article B 40 out 
of 60 tonnes are released under normal conditions and in article C 10 out of 60 tonnes are 
released under normal conditions. Thus company X will need to register the total volume of 
the substance in articles B and C, i.e. 120 tonnes, which is in the 100 to 1000 t/a band.  
22 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
3.3 Registration of substances in articles  
For a substance in articles that has to be registered, the producer/importer of the articles 
shall submit a registration dossier to ECHA. The requirements for the registration dossier 
are in general the same as for manufacturers and importers of the substance. However, if a chemical safety report is required as part of the registration dossier (volume > 10 t/a) 
and the substance is classified as dangerous or PBT/vPvB, the articl e producer/importer 
must cover in his exposure assessment and risk characterisation only the articles’ service 
life and the disposal of the articles. Apart from this, the same distinction between phase -
in substances and non -phase -in substances, the same re gistration deadlines as well as 
the same data sharing requirements apply to substances in articles as to substances on 
their own or in mixtures. Detailed guidance on registration and data sharing is provided in 
the Guidance on registration  and the Guidance on data sharing
. 
 
 
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 23 
 
4 REQUIREMENTS CONCERN ING SUBSTANCES  
OF VERY HIGH CONCERN  
Under REACH each producer, importer and supplier of articles bears responsibility for his 
articles’ safeness. This especially applies, if the articles contain substances that may have 
very serious effects on human health or the environment. In order to en sure a high level 
of protection from the use of such substances in articles as pursued by REACH, their 
presence in articles needs to be laid open and communicated in the supply chain, as this 
is a prerequisite for the identification and application of appr opriate risk management 
measures.  
4.1 Candidate List for authorisation  
Substances fulfilling one or more of the criteria defined in Article 57 of the REACH Regulation can be identified as “substances of very high concern” (SVHC) and put on the 
“Candidate List
 for authorisation”. These SVHC can be:  
• substances meeting the criteria for classification as  
carcinogenic, mutagenic or reprotoxic (CMR) category 1 or 2  
• persistent,  bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) substances or  
very persistent and very bioaccumulative (vPvB) substances  
• substances for which there is evidence for similar concern, such as endocrine 
disruptors  
The Candidate List  is available on the website of ECHA. It has been established according 
to the procedure described in Article 59 of the REACH Regulation. If a substance listed on the Candidate List is contained in articles,  this may trigger certain obligations for 
companies producing, importing or supplying these articles. These obligations are 
discussed further in the following sections. 
It should be noted that the Candidate List is regularly updated when more substances ar e 
identified as SVHC. On the website of ECHA a registry of intentions  is published. One of 
the aims of this registry is to allow interested parties to be  aware of substances which 
might be identified as SVHC before they are included in the Candidate List. This facilitates 
a timely preparation for complying with possible obligations that could result when a 
substance is finally put on the Candidate List. Th erefore article producers, importers and 
suppliers are advised to regularly check the registry of intentions on ECHA’s website.  
Where the time window gained by checking the registry of intentions is deemed 
insufficient, companies may proactively identify s ubstances used in their supply chain 
that have the potential to be included in the Candidate List. These substances, which 
have to fulfil at least one of the criteria for SVHC mentioned above, can be identified 
utilising for example the following sources o f information:  
• Lists of harmonised classification and labelling of hazardous substances contained in 
Tables 3.1 and 3.2 of Annex VI of the CLP Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 which is 
available from the website of the European Commission  
• Monographs Database  of the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC)  
• PBT Information System within the European chemical Substances Information 
System  (ESIS)  
• Commission Staff Working Document SEC(2007)1635  on the implementation of the 
“Com munity Strategy for Endocrine Disrupters”  
  
24 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
• List of Chemicals for Priority Action of the OSPAR Commission  
• SIN List database  of the International Chemical Secreta riat (ChemSec)  
• Trade Union Priority List  of the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC)  
It is important to notice that the legal obligations described in this chapter only apply to 
the substances included in the  Candidate List . Other sources of information such as those 
listed above provided here are just meant to help companies in identifying (if needed) 
substances that m ight potentially be included in the Candidate List.  
4.2 Notification according to Article 7(2)  
Notification of substances in articles is required of producers and importers of articles 
when all conditions of Article 7(2) are met:  
• The substance is included in t he Candidate List for authorisation.  
• The substance is present in articles produced and/or imported above a 
concentration of 0.1% (w/w).  
• The total amount of the substance present in all articles produced and/or imported, 
which contain more than 0.1% (w/w) o f the substance, exceeds 1 tonne per actor 
per year.  
The substance concentration threshold of 0.1% (w/w) applies to each article as produced or imported. This threshold applies to each article of an imported object made up of more than one article, which w ere joined or assembled together.  
In case of import , importers of an object which comprises one or more articles are 
importers of these articles and must collect information for each one of them .  The 
notification obligation rests on importers and producer s of articles. Therefore, the (EU) 
producer of an object made up of more than one article does not need to notify the se 
articles that he uses, because they have been notified upstream by the persons who imported or manufactured them . 
A notification is not required for a substance in articles which have been produced or 
imported before the substance has been included on the Candidate List for 
authorisation
17. Furthermore, in certain cases an exemption from the obligation to notify 
applies (see chapter 6).  
A notification of substances in articles shall be made at the latest 6 months after it has 
been included on the Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern for authorisation, 
but only starting from 1 June 2011. This means that for substances included in  the 
Candidate List before 1 December 2010, the notifications have to be submitted not later 
than 1 June 2011. For substances included in the Candidate List on or after 1 December 
2010, the notifications have to be submitted no later than 6 months after th e inclusion.  
The information to be notified according to Article 7(2) shall include the following items: 
• the identity and contact details of the producer or importer of the articles  
• the registration number for the substance, if available  
• the identity of the SVHC (this information is available from the Candidate List and the supporting documentation)  
                                           
17  This is due to fact that the notification obligation is linked not only to the presence of a SVHC in articles above certain c oncentrations and in 
certain v olumes, but also to the role of being an importer or producer of articles. Hence if the producer/importer no longer acts in t he role of 
being an importer or producer of articles at the time when the obligation starts to apply, he does not need to notify. 
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 25 
 
• the classification of the substance (this information is available from the Candidate 
List and the supporting documentation) 
• a brief description of the use(s) of the substance in the article(s) as specified in 
section 3.5 of Annex VI and of the uses of the article(s)  
• the tonnage range of the substance contained in the articles, i.e. 1 -10 tonnes, 10 -
100 tonnes, 100- 1000 tonnes or ≥1000 tonnes.  
More detailed information is given on how to provide this information within the notification in the Data Submission Manual for substances in articles notifications, 
available on the ECHA website,  
4.3 Obligations according to Article 33  
The aim of Article 33 is to ensure that sufficient information is communicated down the supply chain to allow the safe use of articles. 
A supplier of articles containing a SVHC included on the Candidate List for authorisation in 
a concentration above 0.1% (w/w) has to provide relevant safety information about this 
substance available to him to the recipients of these articles (Article 33(1)). If no particular information is necessary to allow safe use of the article containing a substance 
from the Candidate List, as a minimum the name of the substance in question has to be communicated to the recipients. The information is to be provided to the recipients automatically, i.e. as soon as the substance has been included on the Candidate List for 
authorisation. Note that the term “recipients” refers to industrial or professional users and 
distributors, but not to consumers.  
Upon request of a consumer, the sam e supplier of articles has to provide relevant safety 
information about the SVHC available to him also to this consumer (Article 33(2)). If no 
particular information is necessary to allow safe use of the article, as a minimum the 
name of the substance in q uestion has to be communicated to the consumer. The 
consumer has to be provided with this information within 45 calendar days of the request 
and free of charge. It is also to be noted that a retailer supplying articles, for example, 
does not comply with th is obligation just by referring the consumer to his own supplier, 
or the producer of the articles.  
As concerns the obligations to communicate information on substances in articles in 
general (i.e. communication with recipients and consumers), please note t hat: 
• The substance concentration threshold of 0.1% (w/w) applies to every article 
supplied. This threshold applies to each article of an object made up of more than one article, which we re joined or assembled together;   
• There is no tonnage trigger for thes e obligations (i.e. they also apply below 1 tonne 
per year) ; 
• The obligations also apply to articles which were produced or imported before the 
substance was included in the Candidate List and are supplied after the inclusion. 
Thus, the date of supply of th e article is the relevant date ; 
• The substance name to be communicated is the one appearing on the Candidate 
List for authorisation.  
  
26 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
4.3.1  Communicating information according to Article 33  
In order for an article supplier to determine what information he shall communicate  
according to Article 33, he has to consider:  
• what the downstream life -cycle stages of the article are up to final disposal  
(transport, storage, uses)  
• what the potential routes of exposure are during each of these life -cycle stages  
• what the haza rds of the SVHC are for human health and the environment  
• what types of exposure control / personal protection measures are likely to be 
appropriate during each of the life -cycle stages in order for the handling of the 
article to be considered safe  
These considerations are required in order to identify any risks arising from the SVHC in the article, and thus determine which information has to be provided to the user, in 
addition to the name of the SVHC, in order for him to control these risks. This means tha t 
the obligatory additional information depends on what a user needs to know to be able to 
use the article safely and not on how available this safety information is. It should not be 
assumed that simply providing the name of the substance will in every ca se be sufficient 
to allow safe use of the article.  
Information for any one article may differ regarding information type and detail according 
to who the recipient is. A professional user would, for example, normally not be informed 
that an article should b e kept out of reach of children, whereas such information would 
tend to be appropriate for consumers.  
The most appropriate format for provision of information  may also vary, depending 
on the content and the addressee of the information. Standard answering letters might 
be a suitable medium to inform consumers, whereas a professional user might be better 
informed through separate use instructions.  
REACH does not specify a format for providing information according to Article 33; possible formats could for ex ample be:  
• modification of existing documents, such as instructions for use and packaging  
• information on labels  
• link to a website with up -to-date information  
• standard communication formats developed by industry sector associations  
In any case, you must choo se a format that will ensure that the information is readily 
available to the recipient of the article or the consumer , always taking into account 
the particular situation of use.  
4.4   
[Please note that this sub -chapter and Example 7 have been removed from th e guidance 
following the judgement of the Court of Justice of 10 September 2015 in case C -106/14. 
This sub -chapter will be updated in the next version of this guidance after full 
consultation]   
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 27 
 
 
4.5 Determining the total amount of a SVHC on the Candidate 
List from different articles  in which it is present at above 
0.1% w/w  
It is possible that the concentration of a SVHC on the Candidate List is greater than 0.1% 
(w/w) in different article types produced and/or imported, e.g. plastic bag and plastic 
shower curta in. To find out if a notification is required, the total amount of the substance 
in each of these article types must be determined and summed up.  
To calculate the total amount of the SVHC in each article type produced and/or imported 
per year with a concen tration of the SVHC above 0.1% (w/w) use the following formula:  
[] [] ( )[] ( )[]a articles n articleg m Conc at Voltype articles type article type articlein SVHC type articleonein SVHC / 10 / 10% /6 2⋅⋅ ⋅⋅ =− −
 
The total amount of the SVHC in all articles produced and/or imported, which contain more than 0.1% (w/w) of the substance, is obtained by summing up the amounts 
calcula ted for each article type:  
[] [] [] []at Vol at Volat Volat Voln type articlein SVHC B type articlein SVHC A type articlein SVHC types articleallin SVHC / / / /...++ + =
 
Example 8: Calculation of the total amount of a SVHC in different articles  
 
[Please note that this example has been removed from the guidance following the 
judgement of the Court of Justice of 10 September 2015 in case C -106/14. New/updated  
examples will be re -inserted into the next version of this guidance after full 
consultation]  
 
 
28 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
5 OBTAINING INFORMATIO N ON SUBSTANCES IN 
ARTICLES  
Companies producing, importing or placing articles on the market, do not alwa ys have 
the information in house, which is necessary to establish whether the requirements for 
substances in articles apply. Producers and importers of articles with intended release of 
substances need to know the identity of all substances intended to be released  in these 
articles as well as the respective concentration in the articles. Furthermore, producers and importers of articles in general, as well as distributors of articles, need to know if and in what concentrations substances on the Candidate Lis t for authorisation are contained 
in their articles.  
The success of a company in obtaining this information will largely depend on whether it 
has a quality management system in place or not. Quality management systems can 
include product tests performed in -house, supplier audits and third party certifications. 
Normally these measures are routinely performed to achieve improvements in processes 
and products as well as customer satisfaction. If such routines are already in place, less 
effort will be needed to obtain the required information on substances in articles, whether 
this is done through communication in the supply chain or by means of chemical 
analyses.  
5.1 Information via the supply chain  
Identifying substances in articles and quantifying their amounts i s in many cases only 
possible if the respective information is made available by the actors in the supply chain. 
Supply chain communication is therefore the most important way of gathering the 
information needed in order to identify one’s obligations under REACH. This is due to the 
fact that chemical analysis, although a possible way to identify and quantify substances in articles, is time consuming, costly and difficult to organise. In this regard, establishing 
communication standards for the supply chain is an important task for the private sector 
in order to facilitate the implementation of REACH.  
5.1.1.  Standardised information from suppliers in the EEA  
Information needed to identify and comply with requirements for substances in articles 
can often be derived f rom standardised information that is obtained from suppliers based 
in the EEA. Suppliers of substances or mixtures , for instance, have to provide their 
customers with safety data sheets, or, where a safety data sheet is not required, with available and rel evant safety information and details on regulatory requirements (need 
for authorisation, restrictions imposed) according to Article 32. This obligation also applies when the substance or mixture is supplied in a container or on a carrier material.  
In case a substance requiring a safety data sheet has been registered in a quantity of 10 
t/a or more, recipients of this substance (on its own or in a mixture) are provided by their 
supplier with the relevant exposure scenarios in an annex to the safety data shee t. 
Exposure scenarios describe how a substance is used during its life cycle and recommend 
how to control exposure of humans and the environment. These exposure scenarios cover 
the incorporation of the substance in articles and the resulting life cycle sta ges of the 
substance, including the service life of the articles and the waste life cycle stage. 
Therefore the information contained in exposure scenarios can be useful particularly for 
article producers when preparing the information to be provided to cus tomers as required 
by Article 33.  
  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 29 
 
Unlike suppliers of substances and mixtures, suppliers of articles do not always have to 
provide standardised information to their customers. Only when the articles supplied 
contain a substance included in the Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern for 
authorisation in a concentration above 0.1% (w/w), they must provide available and 
relevant safety information according to Article 33, including, as a minimum, the name of that substance.  
5.1.2.  Requesting information up the supply chain  
Where the information received is not sufficient to check compliance with REACH, producers, importers and suppliers of articles may consider obtaining the necessary 
information by pro -active requests in the supply chain. The following p oints should be 
taken into consideration when requesting information from other actors in the supply 
chain:  
• It may be helpful to tell suppliers why the information is needed, which may be 
unknown, particularly to non- EEA suppliers. For this, several publications  are 
available on ECHA’s website, that explain the background and implications of 
REACH. Some of these documents are available in different languages helping to 
overcome language barriers.  
• To avoid requests having to be passed up complex supply chains via several 
distributors, the producers of articles, formulators and manufacturers of substances 
could be identified and addressed directly to obtain the information required.  
• In many cases the ex act composition of articles or mixtures is not needed to clarify 
whether requirements for substances in articles have to be fulfilled. Certainty in particular that no notification or communication obligations for substances in articles 
apply can also be ac hieved by excluding or limiting the presence of substances that 
are on the Candidate List of substances for authorisation. Suppliers could for 
example provide certificates which guarantee that certain substances are not used 
in the manufacture of their pro ducts or remain below certain concentrations in their 
products. A different approach would be to include respective criteria in supply 
contracts excluding or limiting the presence of certain substances in the products to 
be supplied.  
• It is recommended that requests in the supply chain are targeted and aim at 
excluding or limiting the presence of certain substances (e.g. those on the 
Candidate List for authorisation) instead of asking for the exact composition of 
articles or mixtures, which is more often con fidential information.  
• Substances intended to be released from articles are usually released as part of mixtures, the concentration of which in the articles is more often known than the concentration of the individual substances intended to be released . If the maximum 
content of the mixture intended to be released  in articles is known, critical levels for 
the concentration of substances in the mixture, above which a registration of substances in those articles might be required, can be calculated as shown i n 
section 5.1.2.1. Information requests up the supply chain should then be focused on 
substances exceeding the concentration calculated to be critical. 
Some industry sectors have developed information systems and tools that can be used to 
obtain and commun icate information on substances in articles within the supply  chain in 
an efficient manner. There may however be cases where supply chain communication will 
not be successful. In these cases other means of obtaining information on substances in articles ma y be used, such as a combination of branch knowledge, publicly available 
information sources (see appendix 4) and conclusions from chemical analysis (see 
appendix 5).  
30 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
5.1.2.1  Critical concentration level for substances in a mixture intended 
to be released  
The conc entration limit for a substance in a mixture intended to be released from articles , 
above which registration is necessary, can be calculated using the equation below. For 
this, the maximum concentration of the mixture incorporated in articles and the total  
production and import volume of these articles has to be known. This calculation is based 
on the assumption that the substance is only present in the articles as part of the mixture which is intended to be released.  
articlein mixture articlesat
mixturein subsConc VolConc
max. max1
⋅=  
Conc max subs. in  mixture : maximum weight fraction of the substance that can be in the mixture 
intended to be released  without triggering registration obligations;  
value between 0 and 1 (50% = 0.5, 25% = 0.25, 20% = 0.2, etc.).  
Volarticles: volume of articles produced and  imported [t/a].  
Conc max mixture in article : maximum weight fraction of the mixture intended to be 
released  in the article; value between 0 and 1 (50% = 0.5, 25% = 
0.25, 20% = 0.2, etc.).  
 
Example 9: Critical concentration level for substance in the mixtur e intended to 
be released  
 
A smelling toy contains a mixture of fragrances that is intended to be released during 
use. 
 
Assumption: The toy consists of a maximum  of 15% fragrances. A company imports 30 
tonnes of these toys every year. This importer does not import or produce other articles.  
22.015.0 301
. max =⋅=
atat
mixturein subs Conc  
Conclusion:  This means that registration is not necessary for substances contained in the 
fragrance mixture in a concentration of a maximum of 22% by weight. As this may not  
apply to all substances  in the fragrance mixture, further information has to be sought.  
The importer of the toys could thus ask the supplier whether the concentration of 22% is 
exceeded for any of the substances contained in the fragrance mixture.  
5.1.2.2  Evaluation of information received from suppliers  
When information is requested up the supply chain, suppliers often provide declarations 
of compliance  for their products. The content of these declarations needs to be carefully 
assessed in order to ensure they serve as evidence for the own compliance with REACH. 
In doing so the following aspects ought to be considered:  
• What is being declared? Is this relevant to the own compliance check?  
• Does the declaration clearly relate to the supplier and the products supplied?  
• Who is making the decl aration, and does the signer have the authority to sign on 
behalf of the supplying company?  
• Is there reason for concern over the validity of the declaration?  
If yes, access to any documentation supporting the declaration should be 
requested.  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 31 
 
Likewise it is  not advisable to trust blindly on the adequacy of scientific  test reports 
provided by suppliers. Such a report should be closely examined to make sure that it can 
indeed be used to demonstrate compliance. The following points should be taken into 
account when scientific test reports are used to document compliance checking.  
• A scientific test report should include the following elements:  
• Name and address the laboratory involved in the analysis  
• Date of receipt of the sample and date of performance of the tes t 
• Unique identification of the report (such as a serial number) and date of issue 
• Clear identification and description of the sample and the substance(s)  
for which testing was performed  
• Sample preparation methods and analytical methods used,  
including refe rences to the standards used and any deviations from them  
• The limit of detection (LOD) or limit of quantification (LOQ) of the test method  
• Results of the test (with unit of measurement) including uncertainty of the 
test results  
• Name and signature of the in dividual authorizing the report  
• It should be checked whether the concentration of a substance obtained in the test 
is really below  the relevant limit (e.g. below the 0.1% threshold or the critical 
concentration level for substances in a mixture intended to  be released ). 
• The raw materials and processing of a product can change over time, leading to alterations of the product batches supplied. Therefore it needs to be ensured that 
the test documented in the report was conducted with the relevant type of produ ct 
(i.e. the same type as the products supplied).  
• There should be some level of understanding of the methods used in the test. If the 
presentation of the methods is not clear then an explanation should be sought from 
the supplier to avoid confusion and pos sible non -compliance. 
5.2 Chemical analysis of substances in articles  
Substances contained in articles can be identified and their concentrations quantified by 
applying analytical methods. If other approaches to obtaining information fail or become too complic ated, conducting chemical analysis may thus be an option to obtain 
information on the composition of articles.  
For certain articles (e.g. toys, shoes) it is even common practice to perform chemical analyses of materials used in the production or of final products. Such analyses 
performed routinely for checking of compliance with other legislation or product quality 
control can also serve to obtain information needed for compliance with REACH.  
Although chemical analyses may be helpful in certain situations,  it is to be noted that 
they may yield ambiguous results and/or be very costly and are thus not recommended as the preferred instrument for obtaining information.  
 
 
32 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
5.2.1  Difficulties of chemical analyses  
Difficulties related to chemical analysis of substances i n articles will be faced relating to 
the following issues and have to be kept in mind in case chemical analyses are 
conducted.  
• It may be challenging  to create a representative sample for the analysis of an 
article.  
• Substances that are included in the artic le matrix may have to be extracted from 
it18. 
• This may result in chemical reactions that could “create” substances which do 
not exist in the article.   
• The extraction may not be exhaustive, thus the full content of substances in 
the matrix may not be obtain able. 
• Various analytical methods are available to screen for the existence and 
identification of different substances in a sample.   
• Measurements in most cases will identify the chemical constituents in the 
sample but not necessarily “the substance” which were originally used to 
produce the article. Note that substances may consist of several constituents (for more information please consult the 
Guidance on substance 
identification ).  
• Some methods may show the existence of certain elements (e.g. halogens) 
rather than the existence of substances.  
• If a high number of different substances are contained, several analyses may 
be needed to identify all substances, and it is particularly difficult to assign an 
appropriate method if it is not clear what is being searched.  
• The quantification of substances requires additional measurements.  
5.2.2  Planning chemical analyses of substances in articles  
Chemical analyses have to be planned carefully taking into account what information can 
be obtained with which methods. If an analysis is carried out, a strategy should be developed in collaboration with experienced laboratories and based on available methods. 
The testing strategy and interpr etation of results should take into account any other 
available information on the article which is being analysed e.g. from industry sector 
organisations, research institutions and accredited chemical analysis laboratories. There 
are no formal requirement s on which methods and laboratories to use; it is up to each 
company to judge the appropriateness of methods and laboratories. However, whenever 
possible and appropriate, existing standard methods and appropriate accredited 
laboratories should be used. Exa mples of standard methods for sampling and analysis of 
substances in articles can be found in appendix 5.  
  
                                           
18 Substances intended to be released from articles can in principle be separated from the 
articles without extraction or special methods, so taking respective samples for chemical 
analysis should normally be possible.  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 33 
 
The following steps are proposed, when planning chemical analyses:  
• Consult experts or sector information sources to narrow down which substances to  
look for (e.g. for many articles it can be excluded that gaseous substances are 
contained therein).  
• Develop a strategy for testing as a tiered process, i.e. broad screenings, narrow screenings and identification by e.g. semi -quantitative methods.  
• Identify  which part(s) of the article to analyse: liquids, gases or powders contained 
in the article, extracts from the article matrix, article parts likely to contain a 
particular SVHC, etc.  
• Perform the chemical analysis for the identification of substances.  
 
34 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
6 EXEMPTIONS FROM REQUIR EMENTS FOR SUBSTANCE S 
IN ARTICLES  
Obligations to register or notify substances in articles identi fied as described in chapters 
3 and 4 do not apply in certain cases. This chapter explains what you have to check to 
establish if  you are c overed by an exemption from registration or notification obligations 
related to substances in articles. However, no exemption is possible for the obligation to 
communicate information on substances in articles according to Article 33.  
6.1 General exemption of substances from registration and 
notification  
A number of substances are exempted in general (i.e. whether on their own, in mixtures 
or in articles) from registration and notification as sufficient information is known about 
these substances or registration and notification are simply deemed inappropriate or 
unnecessary (Article 2(7)(a) and (b)). Annexes IV and V of the REACH Regulation specify which substances these are. The Navigator
 on the E CHA website should be used to check 
if any exemption based on an entry in Annex IV or V applies and a registration or 
notification under Article 7 would therefore not be required.  
6.2 Exemption from registration and notification of substances 
recovered  
The REA CH Regulation exempts substances which are recovered in the EEA from 
registration and notification, provided a number of conditions are met (Article 2(7)(d)). 
Producers of articles made of recovered substances can therefore in principle benefit from 
this exemption. The conditions set by REACH which have to be respected in order to benefit from this exemption are described in section 1.6.4.5 of the 
Guidance on 
registrati on. 
6.3 Exposure based exemption from notification  
According to Article 7(3), notification is not required if the producer or importer of articles 
can exclude exposure to humans or the environment during normal or reasonably 
foreseeable conditions of use19, including disposal.  
Exposure to a substance in an article is possible even if the substance is not released from the article, but just on the surface of it. Therefore,  a producer/importer wanting 
to demonstrate ‘exclusion of exposure’ has to ensure that the SVHC on the 
Candidate List does not come into contact with humans or the environment , 
regardless of its dangerous properties. Note that all exposure routes at all life cycle stages have to be considered (service life of the article and waste stage).  
There is no requirement to submit documentation to ECHA that supports an exemption 
from notification. However, a justification of the exemption that demonstrates exclusion of exposure should be prepared so that it can be presented to enforcement authorities on 
request. Such a justification could include for example one or more of the following 
elements:  
• A proof that no emissions from the article take place even during its disposal.  
                                           
19 The terms “normal conditions of use” and “reasonably foreseeable conditions of use” are 
explained in section 3.1.  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 35 
 
• If the substance is contained in the article by technical means: a reasoning why the 
article is unlikely to be opened or to break leading to a release of the substance, in 
particular during the waste stage.  
• If the substance is embedded in the matrix of the article: a description of the 
stability of the article matrix and the bonds betw een the substance and the matrix 
during the different life cycle stages of the article.  
• A proof that the substance remains fully immobile inside the article and does not migrate out of it (e.g. due to the inherent physicochemical properties of the 
substance, or a special coating of the article).  
• A proof that the amounts of substance released from the article are contained by 
technical means or directly destroyed (e.g. during thermal treatment of waste).  
These arguments can be based on measurements (e.g. lea ching and migration tests), 
modelling, literature or other sources of information. Any justification should further 
include:  
• The substance name.  
• A description of the article, its normal and reasonably foreseeable conditions of use, 
and the disposal pathway s. 
• Information on the concentration of the substance in the article or its parts, including substance amounts in the article matrix and non- integrated (residual) 
amounts.  
Note that it may be more difficult and costly to demonstrate “no exposure” than makin g a notification. Some key notions on exposure assessment are described in 
section 6.3.1, for further guidance on how demonstrating that no exposure occurs please 
consult chapters R14 to R18 of the 
Guidance on information requirements and chemical 
safety assessment . 
6.3.1  Potential for release  
The potential for release of a substance from an article will depend on:  
• Physicochemical properties of the substance , like vapour pressure, water 
solubility, stability in contact with air, water, etc.  
• Structure and chemistry of the article matrix  including physicochemical 
parameters and the way in which the substance is incorporated in it (chemically 
bonded or not).  
• The conditions of use and disposal  of the article, such as:  
• Location of use (indoor or outdoor use, private homes, workplace, etc.).  
• Physical conditions at place of use (temperature, ventilation, etc.).  
• Whether or not articles are part of a comprehensive waste collection scheme.  
• The disposal technology.  
Some chemical substances are very firmly bound in the material, e.g. chromium in stainless steel, and the potential emission of chromium is therefore very low. Other 
substances are loosely incorporated in a matrix,  e.g. softening additives in PVC. Such 
substances, like phthalates, are continuously emitted from the surface of the article. An 
alternative way in which substances may be released is through normal wear and tear of 
articles (abrasion). In this case, the substances are released together with the article matrix, e.g. additives in car tyres or the outside surface coatings of a car underbody.  
36 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
6.4 Exemption from registration and notification of substances 
already registered for a use  
According to Article 7(6) a re gistration or notification of a substance in articles is not 
required, if the substance has already been registered for that use (i.e. the process by 
which the substance is included in the articles). This refers to any registration of that use 
of the subst ance in the same supply chain or any other supply chain.  
On the same basis a producer or importer of articles would be exempted from notification of a substance if he has already registered it for that use himself. In other words, in the 
particular case th at a producer or importer of articles has registration and notification 
obligations for the same substance in his articles, he would be exempted from the 
obligation to notify this substance, once he has registered it for that use.  
A substance has already b een registered for a particular use, if two conditions are 
fulfilled:  
• The substance in question is the same as a substance that has already been registered.  
• The use in question is the same as one of the uses described in a registration of this substance th at was already made.  
To ensure that the substance in question is the same as a substance that has already 
been registered, comparing names, and EINECS or CAS numbers of both substances may 
not always be sufficient. When deciding whether or not two substanc es can be regarded 
as the same, the “criteria for checking if substances are the same” given in chapter 5 of 
the Guidance on substance identification
 should be applie d. 
A potential registrant or notifier of a substance in articles would also have to check if the 
use of the substance in his articles is the same as one of the uses described in a 
registration of this substance that was already made. For this he has to des cribe the 
function of the substance in the article (e.g. pigment, flame retardant), the process by 
which the substance is included in the articles and into which type of article. This use 
description should be in line with the use descriptor system explain ed in chapter R.12 of 
the Guidance on information requirements and chemical safety assessment . The use 
descriptor system consists of five elements, sp ecifying the industry sector, the type of 
mixture, the environmental release, the process and the article category of a substance 
use. It also specifies whether a substance is foreseen to be intentionally released from an 
article or not. Please note that ( due to the generic architecture of the use descriptor 
system) using only the elements of the use descriptor system to describe a substance will not be sufficient to conclude on the sameness of two uses for the purpose of establishing 
whether an exemption o n the basis of Article 7(6) applies. Therefore, the use in 
question has to be described more in detail than just by using elements of the 
use descriptor system.  To come to a conclusion on whether the substance is 
considered as registered “for that use” or not, the potential registrant or notifier has to 
compare the description of his use with those uses already registered for the substance. 
The conclusion obtained and the considerations that led to it should be well documented 
in order to be able to demonst rate REACH compliance towards authorities, when required.  
Substances will be registered throughout the phas e-in scheme until 2018. Thus, 
a substance may not yet have been registered at the time a producer or importer of an 
article checks if his use has alr eady been registered.  
  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 37 
 
6.4.1  Information sources to determine if a substance is already 
registered for a use  
Article producers and importers seeking to apply the provisions of Article 7(6) are 
reminded that it is necessary to actively find out if the substance in their articles is 
already registered for their use before establishing that they do not need to register or 
notify it. It is not considered sufficient to simply assume that this is the case without 
documenting it for the purposes of checking by enforcem ent authorities. Different types 
of sources of information may be of use in determining whether a substance is already 
registered for a particular use.  
Safety data sheets  (SDS) contain information on uses of the substance or mixture as 
far as they are know n by the supplier. Where there are many possible uses, only the 
most important or common uses are listed. If a SDS in addition includes a registration 
number, it may be possible, depending on the detailedness of the use descriptions in the 
SDS, to conclude  that a particular use of this substance or mixture has already been 
registered. However, in case of doubt, confirmation of the sameness of both uses (i.e. the 
use of the substance in the articles and one of the uses registered) should be sought from 
the actual registrant up the supply chain.  
In case a substance requiring a safety data sheet has been  registered in a quantity of 
10 t/a or more, recipients of this substance (on its own or in a mixture) are provided by 
their supplier with the relevant exposure  scenarios  in an annex to the safety data 
sheet. If relevant to the recipients of this substance, these exposure scenarios also cover 
the uses by which the substance is incorporated in articles. Therefore the information 
contained in exposure scenarios can  be used by article producers to establish whether 
their use of the substance has already been registered up the supply chain.  
A supplier of a substance (on its own or in a mixture) might choose to provide details on uses for which this substance has been registered on his company website . Depending 
upon the information made available, it may be possible to check whether or not the 
substance has been registered for the use concerned.  
In most cases, if you need to find out for which uses a substance has been  registered, 
you will have to ask other actors up your supply chain. Alternatively you could identify 
and ask a manufacturer or importer of that substance from any supply chain for the uses 
he has registered this substance for, or whether he has registered  it for a particular use. 
Supply chain communication  can be initiated in different ways:  
• A good way to identify manufacturers and importers of a substance who might have 
registered it for a particular use, is to launch a corresponding request within the 
Substance Information Exchange Forum for this substance (SIEF), provided that 
you have pre -registered the substance and become a participant in that SIEF.  
• You may also contact trade associations, who might have information on the registration status of a par ticular substance and the uses the substance has been 
registered for.  
  
38 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
• As a downstream user, a producer of articles has the right to make the use by 
which he includes a substance (on its own or in a mixture) in his articles known to 
his supplier requestin g that his use becomes an identified use20. The supplier has 
several options to react to a use made known to him (further information is 
provided in chapter 8 of the Guidance for  downstream users ). However, in the 
course of the dialogue initiated with the supplier, the article producer may obtain 
the confirmation that the substance has been or will be registered for his use.  
 
The ECHA dissemination database for substance information, which can be accessed via 
the ECHA website: http://apps.echa.europa.eu/registered/registered -sub.aspx  contains 
information on registered substances provided by companies in thei r registration 
dossiers. It includes a variety of information on the substances which companies 
manufacture or import and may include information on the uses of the substance, unless 
the companies have claimed this information as confidential, including us e of the 
substance in articles. However, since the description of the use available here consists 
only of elements of the use descriptor system, the information will normally not be sufficient to conclude on the sameness of two uses for the purpose of esta blishing 
whether an exemption on the basis of Article 7(6) applies.  
 
                                           
20 Please note that this is not an option for importers of articles as they are not downstream 
users.  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 39 
 
Appendix 1.   Borderline cases of substances/mixtures in 
containers or carrier materials  
Section 2.3 of the guidance provides a workflow and explanation on how to distinguish 
between  
a) articles  with an  integral substance/mixture, and  
b) combinations of an article  (functioning as a contain er or a carrier material) and 
a substance/mixture .   
The following examples, the conclusions of which are summarised in the table below, illustrate how to apply the workfl ow and indicative questions in the main guidance and 
how to draw respective conclusions. Please note that the range of borderline cases included in this Appendix is not exhaustive. The examples should be applied to guide decisions on similar borderline cas es, e.g. writing materials would (in analogy with the 
printer cartridge) be considered as combinations of an article  (functioning as a container) 
and a substance/mixture . 
Table 2: Summary of borderline cases described in Appendix 1  
Object  Conclusion  
article  with an integral 
substance/mixture  combination of an article  
(functioning as a 
container  
or a carrier material)  
and a 
substance/mixture  
printer cartridge   x 
spray can  
with paint   x 
fireworks   x 
thermometer  
with liquid  x  
printer ribbon   x 
wet cleaning wipe   x 
wax tape for skis   x 
adhesive tape  
for fixing carpets  x  
battery  x  
desiccant bag   x 
detector tube  x  
candle   x 
40 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Table 3: Borderline cases of su bstances/mixtures in containers  
(continued in table 4)  
Object  Spray can  
with paint  Printer 
cartridge  Fireworks  Thermometer  
with liquid  
Function  Bring paint  
onto surface  Bring toner/ink  
onto paper  Explode,  
make light 
effects  Measure and  
indicate 
temperature  
Question 4a : If the 
substance/mixture 
were to be removed 
or separated from the 
object and used 
independently from 
it, would the 
substance/mixture 
still be capable in 
principle (though 
perhaps without 
convenience or 
sophistication) of 
carrying out the 
function?  YES, one could 
still make a 
painting even if 
the paint would 
be separated 
from the spray 
can. YES, if the 
toner/ink was 
removed and 
filled into any 
other type of 
printing or 
writing device, 
it could still 
execute its 
function.  YES, if the 
chemicals were 
removed, they 
could still 
explode an d 
make light 
effects.  NO, if the liquid 
was removed it 
could still 
expand and 
contract with 
changing 
temperatures, 
but would not 
measure and 
indicate the 
surrounding 
temperature.  
Question 4b : Does 
the object act mainly 
(i.e. according to the 
function) as a 
container or carrier 
for release or controlled delivery of 
the 
substance/mixture or 
its reaction products?  YES, the spray 
can is mainly 
intended to 
deliver the 
mixture in a 
controlled way (it controls 
speed and type 
of its release).  YES, the 
cartridge is  
mainly intended to deliver the 
toner/ink in a 
controlled way (it provides the 
fit to the printer 
and controls the 
release).  YES, the 
function is to 
bring the 
substances or 
their reaction 
products into the air, thus to 
deliver them.  NO, it is not the 
function of the 
object to deliver 
a substance or 
mixture.  
Question 4c : Is the 
substance/mixture 
consumed (i.e. used 
up e.g. due to a 
chemical or physical 
modification) or 
eliminated (i.e. 
released from the 
object) during the 
use phase of the 
object, thereby 
rendering the object 
useless and leading 
to the end of its 
service life?  YES, the spray 
can is normally 
disposed of 
separately from 
the paint.  YES, the 
toner/ink is 
normally 
consumed 
during use and 
the cartridge is 
disposed of 
separately.  YES, the 
explosive 
substances 
react and are 
separated from 
the container 
during use. Any 
containers or 
container parts 
remaining are 
disposed of 
separately.  NO, the liquid 
and the 
container are 
disposed of 
together.  
Conclusion  combination of an article  and a 
substance  
/mixt ure combination of an article  and a 
substance  
/mixture  combination of an article  and a 
substance  
/mixture  see table 5  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 41 
 
Table 4: Borderline cases of su bstances/mixtures in containers  
(continuation of table 3)  
Object  Battery  Desiccant  bag Detector tube21 
Function  Provide electric 
current  Absorb air humidity  Measure 
concentration of 
substances in air  
Question 4a : If the 
substance/mixture were to 
be removed or separated 
from the object and used 
independently from it, 
would the 
substance /mixture still be 
capable in principle 
(though perhaps without 
convenience or 
sophistication) of carrying 
out the function?  NO, the electrolyte 
and the electrode 
active materials as 
such cannot provide 
any electric current 
outside the battery.  
Housed in o ther 
containers without 
the specific design of 
a battery, they would 
also fail to provide 
energy. The 
‘container part’ of the 
battery, empty of the 
electrolyte, is also 
not able to fulfil its 
function.  However, 
there are different 
types of electrolytes 
which could be used 
in one battery casing.  YES, the desiccant 
substance would still 
absorb humidity.   NO, the printed scale 
on the detector tube 
is necessary to read 
the measured 
concentration.   
Question 4b: Does the 
object act mainly (i.e. 
according to the function) as a container or carrier for 
release or controlled 
delivery of the substance/mixture or its 
reaction products?  NO, the electrolyte 
and the electrode 
active materials are not released from the battery, thus the 
container does not 
have a functi on of 
‘delivering’ it and does not control its 
release.  NO, the desiccant is 
not released from the bag.   NO, it is not the 
intention to deliver a 
substance, because 
the intention of this 
object is that the chemical reaction takes place within 
the object.    
                                           
21 A detector tube is a glass tube containing chemical reagents in which a colour change may be 
produced when an air sample is drawn through it. The length of the stain produced, relative 
to a graduated scale on the tube, provides a measure of the concentration of a specified 
chemical agent in the air sample. The European Standard th at governs the requirements for 
detector tubes is EN 1231.  
42 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Object  Battery  Desiccant  bag Detector tube21 
Question 4c : Is the 
substance/mixture 
consumed (i.e. used up 
e.g. due to a chemical or 
physical modification) or 
eliminated (i.e. released 
from the object) during the 
use phase of the object, 
thereby rendering the 
object useless and leading 
to the end of its service 
life? YES, the electrolyte 
is predominantly 
consumed during the 
use phase of the 
object, as the battery 
does not provide 
electric current 
anymore at the end 
of its service life.  YES, the activity of 
the desiccant 
decreases with time; 
at the end of the 
service life of the 
object the desiccant 
does not adsorb 
humidity anymore.  YES, at the end of 
the object’s service 
life, i.e. after the 
substance has 
undergone the colour 
reaction, the 
substance is used up 
i.e. its useful 
properties are 
exhauste d.   
Conclusion   see table 5  combination of  
an article  and 
a substance/mixture  see table 5  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 43 
 
Table 5: Additional indicative questions for borderline cases of subs./mixtures 
in containers  
Object  Thermometer  
with liquid  Battery  Dete ctor tube  
Question 5a : If 
the 
substance/mixture 
were to be 
removed or 
separated from the 
object, would the 
object be unable to 
fulfil its intended 
purpose?  YES, the object will not 
function without the 
liquid.  YES, the mixtures 
need to be in a 
container ( each in a 
separate compartment 
with the necessary 
electrodes) in order to 
provide an electric 
current.  YES, without the 
chemical reagent in the 
tube no concentration measurements could be 
made.  
Question 5b: Is 
the main purpose 
of the object other 
than to deliver the 
substance/mixture 
or its reaction 
products?  YES, Delivering a 
substance/mixture is 
not the main function 
of the object. The 
thermometer contains 
the liquid and provides 
a shape to regulate its 
expansion, necessary 
to measure and to 
show the rig ht 
temperature. It is not 
the purpose to deliver 
the liquid.  YES, the main purpose 
is to provide electric 
current.  YES, the 
substance/mixture in 
the detector tube reacts 
inside the tube and is 
not meant to be 
dispensed by the tube.  
Question 5c : Is 
the obj ect 
normally discarded 
with the 
substance/mixture 
at the end of its service life, i.e. at 
disposal?  YES, the liquid and the 
container are disposed 
of together.  YES, when disposed, a 
battery still contains 
the mixtures.  YES, the detector tube 
still contains  the 
chemical reagent when 
disposed.  
Conclusion  article  with an integral 
substance/mixture  article  with an integral 
substance/mixture  article  with an integral 
substance/mixture  
44 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Table 6: Borderline cases of substances/mixtures on carrier materials  
Object  Printer ribbon  Wet cleaning wipe  Candle  
Function  Bring ink  
onto paper  Remove dirt  
from surfaces  Create a flame  
Question 4a : If the 
substance/mixture were 
to be removed or 
separated from the 
object and used 
independently from it , 
would the 
substance/mixture still 
be capable in principle 
(though perhaps without 
convenience or 
sophistication) of 
carrying out the 
function?  YES, the ink itself 
could still fulfil the 
function of bringing 
ink onto paper.  YES, the cleaning 
effect could 
generally be 
achieved by using 
the mixture itself 
though with less 
convenience.  NO, without the 
wick the mixture 
would not create a 
flame.  
Question 4b: Does the 
object act mainly (i.e. 
according to the 
function) as a container 
or carrier for release or 
controlled delivery of the 
substance/mixture or its 
reaction products?  YES, the main 
function is to deliver 
the ink to the paper.  NO, the main 
function of the 
object is to remove 
dirt from surfaces.  YES, the wick delivers the mixture 
in a controlled way to the flame.  
Question 4c : Is the 
substance/mixture 
consumed (i.e. used up 
e.g. due to a chemical or 
physical modification) or 
eliminated (i.e. released 
from the object) during 
the use phase of the 
object, thereby rendering 
the object useless and 
leading to t he end of its 
service life?  YES, when the 
ribbon is disposed, 
most of the ink has 
been consumed.  YES, the cleaning 
agents are 
predominantly 
consumed22 and the 
wipe is disposed of 
separately.  YES, the mixture is 
burnt during the use 
phase of the candle.  
Conclusion  combination of  
an article  and 
a substance/mixture  combination of  
an article  and 
a substance/mixture  combination of   
an article  and 
a substance/mixture  
                                           
22 This is regarded as true, although in reality a significant part of the cleaning agent may not 
actually be consumed, as its function  is to be released as far as practical.  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 45 
 
Table 7: Applying indicative questions to pressure sensitive adhesive t apes23 
Object  Wax tape for skis  
 
(example for adhesive tapes that 
deliver substances/mixtures onto a 
surface, whereas the carrier 
material serves only as a release 
liner and aid to easy application; 
the adhesive layer may change its 
shape upon application)  Adhesive tape  
for fixing carpets  
(example for adhesive tapes that 
do not deliver 
substances/mixtures onto a 
surface, and consist of adhesive 
layer(s) and a backing or internal 
reinforcement) 
Function  Bring wax onto ski surface  Hold two substrates together  
Question 4a : If the 
substance/mixture were to be 
removed or separated from the 
object and used independently 
from it, would the 
substance/mixture still be 
capable in principle (though 
perhaps without convenience or 
sophistication) of carrying out 
the function?  YES, the adhesive layer is 
capable of carrying out its 
intended purpose (which is not 
necessarily mainly to adhere!), 
though with less convenience.  NO, the function of the tape 
is determined by the 
interaction between the 
backing or reinforcement an d 
the adhesive.  
Question 4b: Does the object 
act mainly (i.e. according to the 
function) as a container or 
carrier for release or controlled 
delivery of the 
substance/mixture or its reaction 
products?  YES, the tape’s function is the 
controlled delivery of  a 
substance or mixture.  NO, the tape’s function is not 
to simply control the release or delivery of the adhesive layer.  
Question 4c : Is the 
substance/mixture consumed 
(i.e. used up e.g. due to a 
chemical or physical 
modification) or eliminated (i.e. 
released from the object) during 
the use phase of the object, 
thereby rendering the object 
useless and leading to the end of 
its service life?  YES, the adhering layer and 
the carrier material are 
disposed of separately at the 
end of their respective useful 
lives.   NO, the adhesive is not 
consumed or eliminated 
during the use phase of the 
adhesive tape.  
Conclusion   combination of an article  
and a substance/mixture  see table 8  
 
                                           
23 Terms used in the ta ble are defined according to EN 12481:  
Backing : flexible material such as fabric, foil or paper which can be coated with a pressure sensitive adhesive.  
Reinforcement : a material which strengthens the backing and/or the adhesive.  
Release liner : a removable material which protects the adhesive face or faces.  
Substrate : a surface or material to which the tape is applied.  
46 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
 
Table 8: Applying additional indicative questions to pre ssure sensitive 
adhesive tapes  
Object  Adhesive tape for fixing carpets  
Question 5a : If the 
substance/mixture were to be 
removed or separated from the object, would the object be 
unable to fulfil its intended 
purpose?  YES, the adhesive layer without the ba cking material or the 
reinforcement is not capable of carrying out the intended purpose of the tape.  
Question 5b: Is the main 
purpose of the object other 
than to deliver the 
substance/mixture or its re -
action products?  YES, the tape’s function is to adhe re to the substrate and to 
provide additional qualities through the backing or internal 
reinforcement.  
Question 5c : Is the object 
normally discarded with the 
substance/mixture at the end of 
its service life, i.e. at disposal?  YES, the adhesive remains on the tape at the end of its service 
life. 
Conclusion  article  with an integral substance/mixture  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 47 
 
Appendix 2.   Examples of setting the borderline in the 
sequence of processing natural or synthetic 
materials into final articles  
In section 2.3 the main guidance text contains explanations and indicative questions to 
support the evaluation of the importance of the chemical composition of objects versus 
their shape/surface/design in relation to the function. The indicative questions 6a to 6d 
can be used to determine the tra nsition point from a substa nce/mixture to an article for 
a raw material during its processing. This appendix illustrates the application of the article 
definition to different types of raw materials. It exemplifies how the indicative questions 6a to 6d cou ld be answered and how they could assist in deciding whether an object is to 
be considered an article.  
It should be noted that the borderline between substance/mixture and article may be 
different for very similar types of materials (e.g. there might not be one solution for all 
types of fibres). Thus, it should be avoided to draw conclusions on the status of the same type of a raw material in different sectors, as it may fulfil different functions. Thus, 
whether or not a raw material is an article must be decided case -by-case. However, 
industry sectors may develop further guidance based on section 2.3 in the guidance and 
this appendix.  
In the following, guidance on where and how to set the borderline during the refinement 
of raw materials and production of various final articles is given for four sectors: metals, 
textile (in cooperation with non -woven industry), paper and plastic. The examples are 
intended to illustrate the decision making process and it should be stressed that if in 
doubt, a careful examina tion in line with the indicative questions should be conducted. In 
line with this, the following examples should be applied with care taking into account the 
exceptions indicated in the text.    
 
 
48 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
1) Aluminium processing as an example of metal processing  
The example of aluminium processing shows the transition point in the processing of 
bauxite to final aluminium products. It should be noted that the processing of other 
metals (for example iron/steel) may show different transition points. The following fig ure 
shows the different processing stages and the respective status of the raw material.  
 
Figure 3: Transition from bauxite to final aluminium products  
 
The transition point from mixture24 to article is set between rolling ingots  and sheets, 
extrusion ingots and extrusion profiles and aluminium alloy and alloy cast pieces. The 
decision process as supported by the indicative questions 6a to 6d in the main guidance 
could be as follows.  
 
 
                                           
24  formerly termed “preparation” as in the figure.  Alumina Al2O3
Aluminium 
Aluminium alloyAluminium products
Mineral ore 
(bauxite )
substance
substance
(metal)extraction   
electrolysis 
addition of alloying elements
grinding , 
drilling , 
surface 
treatment …Natural raw
material
Extrusion 
ingots
Rolling and
further treatmentcasting intoshapes
Final aluminium
productRolling 
ingotscasting intoingots
Extrusion
Final aluminium
productSheet
(coils)
Final aluminium
productpreparations
Aluminium 
alloy cast pieceExtrusion 
profile
Cutting, forming,
coatingarticles
Cutting, forming, 
coating 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
   mixturesAlumina Al2O3
Aluminium 
Aluminium alloyAluminium products
Mineral ore 
(bauxite )
substance
substance
(metal)extraction   
electrolysis 
addition of alloying elements
grinding , 
drilling , 
surface 
treatment …Natural raw
material
Extrusion 
ingots
Rolling and
further treatmentcasting intoshapes
Final aluminium
productRolling 
ingotscasting intoingots
Extrusion
Final aluminium
productSheet
(coils)
Final aluminium
productpreparations
Aluminium 
alloy cast pieceExtrusion 
profile
Cutting, forming,
coatingarticles
Cutting, forming, 
coating 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
   mixtures
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 49 
 
Table 9:  Applying i ndicative questions to different stages of aluminium 
processing (part 1)  
Object  Rolling and  
extrusion Ingot  Coil / Extrusion 
profile  Final product,  
e.g. coated 
sheet/final product  
Question 6a : Does 
the object have a 
function other than 
being further 
processed?  NO, further processing 
such as cutting or 
stamping is required for 
achieving a definite 
function.  YES, aluminium 
extrusion profiles can 
often be directly used in 
construction work.  
Please note that other metal alloy coils may 
need considerable further processing and 
have no comparable end 
use. YES, the coated sheet 
could be used for 
construction of 
vehicles. Modified 
extrusion profiles could 
be used in several 
applications such as 
tubes or, when anodised, as door and 
window frames.  
Question 6b: Does 
the seller place the 
object on the market 
and/or is the 
customer mainly 
interested in acquiring 
the object because of 
its 
shape/surface/design 
(and less because of 
its chemical 
composition)?  NO, seller/buyer of 
rolling ingot 
offers/acquires a certain 
chem ical composition. 
The shape of the ingot 
determines the nature of 
the next processing step 
(rolling), but is not 
considered more 
important than the 
chemical composition.  Ambiguous.  YES, the shape, 
surface and design of 
the material are 
normally of more 
importance for the 
buyer than the 
chemical composition.  
Question 6c : When 
further processed, 
does the object only undergo only “light 
processing”, i.e. no 
gross changes in 
shape?  NO, before 
rolling/extruding, the 
ingots have no specific form. After the rolling/extrusion they are 
significantly enlarged and have a totally 
different shape, which is 
created deliberately 
during the process.  YES, the processing of 
coils to sheets and of 
extruded profiles to 
doors and window 
frames consists of “light 
processing” st eps (e.g. 
cutting, coating).  The 
materials have more or 
less the same shape 
before and after the 
process.  Not further  
processed.  
Question 6d: When 
further processed, 
does the chemical 
composition of the 
object remain the 
same?  NO, the chemical 
composition could be 
changed during further 
processing of the 
material (e.g. application 
of surface coating).  NO, the chemical 
composition of the sheet 
could be changed during 
further processing (e.g. 
application of surface 
coating).  Not further  
processed.  
Conclusi on substance/mixture  article  article  
 
  
50 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Raw material types in the form of metal and alloy semi -finished products similar to coils 
and profiles are: bars, blanks (e.g. cut, machined, pressed, etc), coil (coated and 
uncoated), extrusion profiles, films and filaments, foil and ribbons, forgings, plate, pipe 
and tube (cast, seamless and welded), pipe and tube fittings, sintered semi -finished and 
final products, sheet and strip (coated and uncoated), stampings, wire rod and wire 
(coated and uncoated).  
Below the  two ways of processing aluminium ingots shown in figure 3 are discussed with 
regard to the borderline between mixture and article status.  
 
Aluminium alloy – rolling ingots – coils 
Rolling ingots do not normally have an end use function indicating that the se would 
normally be mixtures. It is ambiguous and case dependent whether a coil has an end function in itself.  In any case a cutting or stamping process is required for achieving a 
definite function. As this would generally be considered as light processi ng, this question 
indicates towards the coil being an article.  
The interest of the buyer/seller in chemical composition versus shape/surface and design generally changes between the ingot and the coil/profile. Although the composition plays 
a role with re gard to the quality of the material, the buyer would primarily look for the 
form of the objects. In the case of the rolling ingots, the shape is considered important 
(determines the next processing step), but normally not more important than the 
chemical composition. This is an indication that the ingot is a mixture, whereas the coil is 
normally an article.  
Whereas the rolling ingots only determine into which type of processing the raw material 
is introduced next, the form of the coil already determines th at only sheets can be 
produced from it. The rolling process significantly changes the form of the ingots in many 
ways. The cutting/stamping and further processing of the coil only results in modification 
of the basic shape and can be regarded as light proc essing. ‘Light processing’ in the 
sector covers for example cutting, drilling, piercing, surface treatment, coating, etc. but 
excludes processes such as melting, extrusion, sintering, etc. where the formed shape is destroyed or significantly changed. This is an indication that the status of the raw 
material is changed in the process of rolling into sheets/coils.  
The basic chemical composition of the material (aluminium alloy) is not changed during 
the entire processing, although through coating or surface treatment (e.g. anodising) or 
lubrication (e.g. greasing, oiling, etc.) substances/mixtures may be added. This question is not a helpful indicator in this example, as it does not give clear indications on status of 
the raw material.  
Aluminium alloy – extru sion ingots – extrusion profiles  
Already the first question gives an unambiguous indication for the extrusion ingots having no end -use function and therefore indication for being mixtures, whereas the extrusion 
profiles, which can be used directly to fulfi l a distinct function, have a clear indication for 
being articles.  
The interest of the buyer/seller in chemical composition versus shape/surface and design 
generally changes between the ingot and the profile. The shape of the extrusion ingots is 
irrelevan t with regard to the extrusion profile, thus the buyer of the ingots would only be 
interested in the chemical composition of the material. This is a clear indication that the 
ingots are mixtures.  
  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 51 
 
The extrusion process significantly changes the form of th e ingots in many ways, whereas 
the processing steps carried out with the extrusion profiles only result in modifications of 
that basic shape.  This shows that the transition point of the material should be after the 
extrusion process.  
The basic chemical co mposition of the material (aluminium alloy) is not changed during 
the entire processing, although through coating or surface treatment (e.g. anodising) or 
lubrication (e.g. greasing, oiling, etc.) substances/mixtures may be added. Also in this 
case, the qu estion is not helpful in determining the transition point.  
 
52 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Table 10: Applying indicative questions to different stages of aluminium 
processing (part 2)  
Object  Alloy ingot for 
remelting  Alloy cast piece  Final aluminium 
product  
Question 6a : Does 
the object have a 
function other than 
being further 
processed?  NO. YES.  YES, aluminium final 
products are used in 
the construction of vehicles, domestic 
appliances and, when 
anodized, for 
architectural and 
building applications.  
Questio n 6b: Does 
the seller place the 
object on the market 
and/or is the 
customer mainly 
interested in acquiring 
the object because of 
its 
shape/surface/design 
(and less because of 
its chemical 
composition)?  NO, seller/buyer of alloy 
remelting ingots offers / 
acquires a certain 
chemical composition 
rather than a certain 
shape. The shape of the 
ingot does not determine 
the nature of next 
processing steps 
(melting and casting).  YES, the buyer of an 
alloy cast piece (casting) 
is interested in it having 
already the basic shape 
and design.  
The chemical 
composition is 
(normally) of less 
importance as compared 
with the 
shape/surface/design.   YES, the shape, 
surface and design of 
the material is normally 
of more importance for 
the buyer than the 
chemical composition.  
Question 6c : When 
further processed, 
does the object only 
undergo only “light 
processing”, i.e. no 
gross changes in 
shape?  NO, as the shape of 
alloy remelting ingots is 
entirely lost during the 
melting process, they 
have no specific form. 
After casting, a totally different shape is developed, which is 
created deliberately 
during the process.  YES, the processing of 
alloy cast pieces (castings) to finished 
products consists of e.g. 
grinding, drilling, surface 
treatment.  The 
materials have more or less the same shape 
before and after the 
process.  Not further  
processed.  
Question 6d: When 
further processed, 
does the chemical 
composition of the 
object remain the 
same?  NO, the chemical 
composition of the alloy 
ingot is not changed 
during remelting, but 
afterwards  the chemical 
composition of the alloy 
cast piece (casting) 
could be changed during 
further processing (e.g. 
anodizing).  NO, the chemical 
composition of the alloy 
cast piece (casting) 
could be changed during 
further processing (e.g. 
anodizing).  Not further  
processed.  
Conclusion  substance/mixture  article  article  
Raw material types similar to the aluminium alloy cast piece are: castings (e.g. 
centrifugal, die, investment, sand, etc.), continuous cast shapes (e.g. bars, billets, 
blooms, rounds, slabs). A cas e-by-case consideration should normally be done to make 
the final decision on a material’s status.  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 53 
 
2) Textile and non-woven processing  
Please note that this example cannot be directly applied for all types of (man -
made) fibres; there are, for example, great differences between man made mineral 
fibres and synthetic polymers. The figure shows the various processing steps and 
methods applied in the textile and non -woven industry. Irrespectively of the type of raw 
material (synthetic or natural material), the  processing stage ‘man -made textile and non -
woven fibres’ is regarded as an article. Thus, any further processing is seen as processing of articles.  
 
Figure 4: Transition from raw materials to final textile/non -woven products  

54 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Table 11: Applying indicative questions to different stages of textile/non -woven 
processing  
Object  Synthetic polymer  Man-made fibre  Tow-rope  
Question 6a : Does the 
object have a function 
other than being further 
processed?  NO. YES, m an-made fibres could 
for example be used as filling 
material for pillows or dental 
floss.  YES, tow -
ropes have 
various 
functions.  
Question 6b: Does the 
seller place the object on 
the market and/or is the 
customer mainly 
interested in acquiring the 
object because of its 
shape/surface/design (and 
less because of its 
chemical composition)?  NO, the interest in 
polymers is clearly in 
its chemical nature and 
not in its shape.  YES, the shape, surface and 
design of the material is 
normally more important for 
the person acquiring a man -
made fibre.  YES, the shape 
of the tow -rope 
is more 
important for 
the buyer than 
the chemical 
composition.   
Question 6c : When 
further processed, does 
the object only undergo 
only “light processing”, i.e. 
no gross changes in 
shape?  NO, the polymer does 
not yet have a specific 
form. By 
spinning/drawing fibres 
are produced which 
have a shape and design (‘diameter’) 
which are deliberately 
formed during 
processing.  YES, before the processing 
the fibres already have a 
specific form which i s further 
developed in the next 
processing steps, such as 
cutting, twisting, finishing. 
The fibre itself exists in the same state as before but has 
been ‘bundled’.  Not further  
processed.  
Question 6d: When 
further processed, does 
the chemical composition 
of the object remain the 
same?  NO, the composition is 
changed before 
extrusion (additives, 
cross- sectionalisation).  YES, the chemical 
composition of the man - 
made fibre may be changed in 
order to enhance its 
processability, or through 
dyeing. The basic com position 
of the fibre is however the 
same.  Not further  
processed.  
Conclusion  substance/mixture  article  article  
For the man -made fibre, for some applications the first question can be answered 
unambiguously, as the man- made fibres already have a function other than being further 
processed whilst for other applications the main function is the further processing. Thus 
the fibre in principle can be an article already. The same applies to the tow rope.  
The buyer of a man -made fibre is normally most intereste d in acquiring a material with 
a specific shape, rather than a certain composition. The fact that fibres with different 
composition can substitute each other is another indicator of the greater relevance of 
physical properties.  
The buyer of a tow -rope is u ndoubtedly more interested in the shape of the tow -rope 
than in its chemical composition.  
  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 55 
 
The type of extrusion/drawing determines the diameter of the fibre and therefore it is the 
processing step that deliberately forms the shape of the fibre. Further properties like 
strength, elongation and shrink are given to the fibres in this step as well. The man -made 
fibres are ‘assembled’ in different processes to form the final products, like the tow rope. These processes are mainly mechanical and do not change the base structure of the fibre, 
but simply ‘aggregate’ it to larger units.  
The basic chemical composition of the polymer may be changed after the extrusion/drawing through various types of processing (depending on th e type of further 
processing).  
The exa mple shows that the stage at which the function is determined by shape, surface 
and design may be very early in the raw materials processing. Furthermore, the design is the relevant physical property of the fibre, as its overall shape does not change significantly in the further processing.  
 
 
56 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
3) Polymer processing  
In the polymer processing industry, the transition point from mixture to article is defined 
after the conversion of polymer pellets. The conversion process is what transforms the 
mixture into an article. The figure shows one example product / process which can be 
regarded as typical for the polymer processing industry and therefore represents also 
other processes like calendaring, injection moulding, etc.  
 
Figure 5: Trans ition from crude oil to plastic products  
 Ethylene
PE pellets
PE packagingPE foilsPlastic products
Crude oil
Substance
(monomer )
Preparation(polymer )
article
articleRefinery
polymerisation
incorporationof additives
Film blowing
Cuttinggluing etc.Natural raw
material
Ethylene
PE pellets
PE packagingPE foilsPlastic products
Crude oil
Substance
(monomer )
Preparation(polymer )
article
articleRefinery
polymerisation
incorporationof additives
Film blowing
Cuttinggluing etc.Natural raw
material
Mixture
MixtureEthylene
PE pellets
PE packagingPE foilsPlastic products
Crude oil
Substance
(monomer )
Preparation(polymer )
article
articleRefinery
polymerisation
incorporationof additives
Film blowing
Cuttinggluing etc.Natural raw
material
Ethylene
PE pellets
PE packagingPE foilsPlastic products
Crude oil
Substance
(monomer )
Preparation(polymer )
article
articleRefinery
polymerisation
incorporationof additives
Film blowing
Cuttinggluing etc.Natural raw
material
Mixture
Mixture
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 57 
 
Table 12: Applying indicative questions to different stages of polymer 
processing  
Object  Polymer pellet  PE-foils  PE 
packaging  
Question 6a : Does the object have 
a function other than bein g further 
processed?  NO. YES, direct application 
as packaging possible, 
also without further 
processing.  YES, 
packaging.  
Question 6b: Does the seller place 
the object on the market and/or is 
the customer mainly interested in 
acquiring the object because  of its 
shape/surface/design (and less 
because of its chemical 
composition)?  NO, the converter 
selects polymer 
pellets according to 
their chemical 
composition. The 
shape is not relevant.  YES, the buyer of foils 
is most interested in its 
shape. For many 
functions foils of 
different chemical 
composition can be 
used.  YES. 
Question 6c : When further 
processed, does the object only undergo only “light processing”, i.e. 
no gross changes in shape?  NO, the conversion 
unit causes the 
deliberate formation 
of a shape of the polymer material, 
which determines its 
function.  YES, further processing 
doesn’t change the 
design but only 
modifies it.  Not further  
processed.  
Question 6d: When further 
processed, does the chemical 
composition of the object remain the 
same?  NO, before extrusion, 
additives are mixed 
into the raw material 
to obtain certain 
functionalities.  YES, the chemical 
composition of the foil 
itself does not change 
in the further 
processing steps, but it 
could be printed onto.  Not further  
processed.  
Conclusi on substance/mixture  article  article  
Whereas the polymer pellets do not have an end use function yet, the converted 
materials are likely to have one. In the example, the PE foil can directly be used for 
packaging and can also be used and modified in furth er processing.   
In the conversion unit, the structure and design of the polymer compounds is changed. In 
the resulting material the design and structure is kept during further processing.   
For the polymer sector, this means that processes including for e xample, but not limited 
to, pipe extrusion, film blowing, blow moulding, sheet forming, rotomoulding, foaming, compression moulding, fibre spinning or tape slitting calendaring, coating or injection moulding mark the ‘red line’ between mixture and article.    
 
58 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
4) Paper processing  
The transition point from mixture to article is between the stock and the dried paper.  
 
 
 
Figure 6: Illustrative example of the general transition point from wood to paper 
articles  
 
Integrated Paper Making  
Treatments  
Chipping   
 Pulping  
Stock  
preparation  
Convertin  
Final paper product  
Is an article  
Wood (natural 
raw material)  
Chips  
 Cellulose 
 
 is a natural substance  
(no registration)  
Paper  
is an article  
Post treated paper  
is an article  
Stock  
is a mixture  
Potential Input of s ubstances / mixtures 
ammixturepreparations  
Formation,  
dewatering, drying  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 59 
 
Table 13: Applying indicative questions to different stages of paper processing  
Object  Stock  Paper  Postcard  
Question 6a : Does the object have a 
function other than being further 
processed?  NO. YES, could be used 
e.g. for packaging.  YES. 
Question 6b: Does the seller place the 
object on the market and/or is the 
customer mainly interested in acquiring 
the object because of its 
shape/surface/design (and less because 
of its chemical composition)?  NO, stock is mostly 
liquid and thus does 
not have a shap e, 
surface or design, 
yet. YES, for the buyer the 
shape of the paper is 
most relevant.  YES. 
Question 6c : When further processed, 
does the object only undergo only “light processing”, i.e. no gross changes in 
shape?  NO, after 
dewatering/drying 
the stock is given a 
specific shape, 
surface and design 
for the first time.  YES, further 
processing (here: 
cutting, printing) does 
not change the basic 
design. Although 
shape & surface are 
modified, the 
properties of the 
‘paper’ already 
determine the function.  Not further  
processed.  
Question 6d: When further processed, 
does the chemical composition of the 
object remain the same?  NO, chemicals may 
be added.  YES, just surface 
treatment, gluing etc. 
may add substances.  Not 
further  
processed.  
Conclusion  substance/mix ture article  article  
The paper as obtained from the paper machine could already have an end use function, 
e.g. packaging of filling material. Although it is further processed to better fulfil a specific 
purpose, the paper already has a function apart from  being raw material for further 
processing.  
The dewatered paper is the first stage of the raw material, which does have a specific 
shape, surface and design. Any previous production stages of the raw material can 
therefore not represent an article status.   
The further treatment of paper may change the overall shape of paper significantly. 
However, the design is not changed.   
 
60 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Appendix 3.   Illustrative cases for checking if 
requirements under Article 7 and article 33 
apply  
 
1) Scented children’s toys  
Scented children ’s toys are articles with intended release. The case is chosen to illustrate 
the difficulties that an importer of articles may face if he cannot get any information on 
the substances contained in the imported article from his suppliers.  
The following is as sumed:  
• Import per year: 1 million scented toys  
• Weight of toy part containing the fragrance: 2 g  
• No information on content of substances to be released  
• No information on registration  
Substance identification  
In order to obtain information on the substanc es to be released from the scented toys the 
importer does the following analyses:  
1 Analysis on fragrances (24 in total) classified as sensitising by EU's Scientific 
Committee on Cosmetics (SCCNFP 1999). Toys with different smells, lemon and 
strawberry are e xamined. The analysis is carried out on the part containing the 
fragrance.  
2 The toy with lemon scent is examined in an emission test to analyse the release.  
3 Screening for extractable organic compounds by GC/MS.  
A total of 11 sensitising fragrance substance s are found in the analysis on fragrances; 
substance names and CAS numbers can be identified. During the emission test various 
compounds are detected and identified by substance name. Only one substance is 
identified by name in the screening for extractabl e compounds. The CAS numbers are 
searched in an online database for toxicological data (Thomson Microdex). Classification 
is searched for in lists from the Danish EPA . It is not possible to find the CAS number for  
all the identified substances using the available substance name.  
Information on concentration of the substance  
The concentration of D -limonene was determined for the part containing the fragrance. 
The classification was obtained from databases.  
 
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 61 
 
Table 14: Information on D -limonene in the toys  
Substance  CAS no.  Classification  Concentration in  
toy part containing 
the fragrance 
(mg/kg)  
D-limonene  5989- 27-5 R10 (Flam. Liq. 3; H226)  
Xi;R38 (Skin Irrit. 2; H315)  
R43 (Skin Sens. 1; H317)  
N;R50/53 (Aquatic Acute 1; 
H400  
- Aquatic Chronic 1; H410)  800 
Information on amount of substance used  
The quantity of D -limonene in the scented toys can be calculated as the amount in each 
toy (800 mg/kg × 0.002 kg/toy = 1.6 mg/toy) multiplied by the  amount of toys imported 
annually (1,000,000 toys/a). The annual amount of D -limonene in the toys imported is 
1.6 kg/a, which is below 1 t/a.  
It can also be calculated how many toys the importer can import before reaching the 
threshold of  1 t/a for D -limonene:  
a toystoyt toymg ConcNumberatat
articlew subsat
articles6
9
) /.(max 10625106.11
6.11 1⋅=⋅= = =− 
Number max articles : maximum number of articles that can be produced and imported per 
year 
without triggering registration obligations.  
Conc  subs. (w/article) : content of the substance in one article.  
The importer can import 625  million toys before reaching the threshold of 1 t/a for D -
limonene and trigger registration obligations.  
Illustration of the decision process  
 
Example: Toy with lemon scent (D -limonene)  
 
Are you the first EU producer or importer of the object?  
YES. 
Is you r object an article? (consult chapter 2)  
YES. The company imports toys which are articles, because the shape determines their 
function.  
Is there an intended release of substances from the article? (consult chapter 3)  
Substances are released during the use of the article. The release is an additional quality 
of the toy and the release is therefore intended, otherwise the article would not smell.  
Does the article contain a SVHC included in the Candidate List?  
(consult chapters 4 and 5) 
As the importer has no information except the results from the chemical analysis he could 
do the following:  
62 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
1)  Collect information on sector knowledge and typical content of substances in this 
type of article, standards like the toys directive etc. He would compare that 
informa tion with the Candidate List for authorisation and may have doubts whether 
he can exclude the presence of SVHC. He does not find information on the 
fragrances intended to be released.  
2)  Check the supply chain requesting if any of the substances on the C andidate List is 
included in the article or the substances/mixtures used to produce the article or 
receive confirmation that SVHC are not present in the article. Check the supply 
chain and ask if the supplier of the fragrance substances can be identified. If yes, 
the importer of toys may try to obtain a safety data sheet.  
3)  Plan and perform screening for substances on the Candidate List by analytical 
methods if no information is obtained from the suppliers and content of SVHC is 
likely (see results above ). 
4)  Check if identified substances are listed on the Candidate List (The emission test 
revealed the presence of compounds classified with R50/53 (Aquatic Acute 1; H400 
- Aquatic Chronic 1; H410) and R51/53 (Aquatic Chronic 2; H411). These 
compounds may potentially fulfil the criteria as PBT/vPvB substances, and thus be 
identified as SVHC).  
5)  Calculate the amount of substances identified in the screening analysis and assess 
whether the tonnage threshold for registration could be exceeded.   
Is the total  amount of the fragrance mixture > 1 t/a (all such articles in a 
company should be considered)?  
YES. The total volume of fragrance is approx. 2 t/a.  
Identify each substance intended to be released from the article.  
A total of 11 fragrance compounds were i dentified to be contained in the toy. During the 
emission test various compounds were detected and some of the detected compounds 
were identified with a CAS number and classification.  
The output from the analysis was the substance name only. The C&L inven tory to be 
established should be consulted in order to obtain a CAS number and classification.  
Further steps in this case are focused on D -limonene, which was identified in the chemical 
analysis.    
Substances exempted from registration?  
NO. 
Check for exi sting registration for that use.  
The substance has not been registered.  
Determine the amount of each substance intended to be released (all such 
articles in a company should be considered and summed up)  
Based on the chemical analysis, the content of D -limonene intended to be released is 
determined to be 800 mg/kg in the inner part of the toy. The content of D -limonene in 
the toy is 1.6 mg as the weight of the inner part was 2 g.  
Total amount > 1 t/a?  
It is assumed that this toy is the only article containi ng D-limonene and imported by the 
company. The annual amount of D -limonene is calculated to be 1.6 kg/a, which is below 
1 t/a.  
Registration of D -limonene in the toys is not required.  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 63 
 
 
Comments on the case  
The importer may import toys with several other fragrances, which also have to be 
examined. Each individual substance to be released has to be identified.   
Only 24 selected fragrances were analysed for content in the article. There are more 
substances present in the toy, therefore an emission test was al so done. In the emission 
test a range of volatile substances released into the air was identified. Here, only the release was analysed and not the content. The emission test did not include the fragrances.   
The analysis for fragrances and the emission tes t, where specific known compounds were 
searched for in the entire article (extraction of content of the toy) and in the substances released (emissions were captured and analysed) was supplemented by a GC -MS 
screening for extractable organic compounds, wher e any compound is detected and 
characterised by a spectrum. However, the compounds found in the emission test were not found in the GC -MS analysis, hence the content of the volatile substances could not 
be determined using this method.  
This case illustrate s how difficult it is to provide full documentation on substances to be 
released from the article based on chemical analysis. If possible, the documentation of the identity and quantity of substances to be released from the article should be based on compo sition of the formulation used for the article. In case of imported articles the 
documentation might include supporting documents as letters from the suppliers or by 
certificates stating e.g. the content of fragrances in the article.  
 
 
64 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
2) Clothes  
Please note that this example has been removed from the guidance following the judgement 
of the Court of Justice of 10 September 2015 in case C -106/14. New/updated  examples will 
be re -inserted into the next version of this guidance after full consultation]  
 
3) Aut omotive tyres  
Please note that this example has been removed from the guidance following the judgement 
of the Court of Justice of 10 September 2015 in case C -106/14. New/updated  examples will 
be re -inserted into the next version of this guidance after full  consultation]  
4) Inflatable sleeping mattress  
Please note that this example has been removed from the guidance following the judgement of the Court of Justice of 10 September 2015 in case C -106/14. New/updated  examples will 
be re -inserted into the next ve rsion of this guidance after full consultation]
 
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 65 
 
Appendix 4.   Information sources on substances in 
articles  
The non -exhaustive list below contains examples of available information sources on 
substances in articles. They provide various information, e.g. which substances to expect 
in certain types of articles, which substances can be ruled out of being present in certain 
articles, which type of substances can be expected to be released from articles, etc.  
Name  Source  Content  
Information sources on substances in misce llaneous articles  
Restrictions on the 
manufacture, placing 
on the market and use 
of certain dangerous 
substances, mixtures 
and articles (Annex 
XVII to the REACH 
Regulation (EC) No 
1907/2006 REACH 
Regulation, as 
amended)  http://echa.europa.eu/legislation/reac
h_legislation_en.asp  
 Restrictions on use and marketing 
of substances in various mixtures 
and articles, e.g. textiles and 
treated wood.  
ECHA's public database 
with information on 
registered substances  http://apps.echa.europa.eu/registered
/registered- sub.aspx  The information in this da tabase 
was provided by companies in their registration dossiers, such as e.g. information on the identified uses of 
substances, which include uses of 
substances in articles (please note 
that the database allows only 
searches for substances, not for 
article s). 
Substance -specific 
documents relating to 
Annex XIV 
Recommendations on 
ECHA’s website  http://echa.europa.eu/chem_data/aut
horisation_process/annex _xiv_rec/sub
st_spec_docs_en.asp  For each of the prioritised 
substances, documents providing 
further background information also 
on the uses of substances are 
accessible.  
News & Press Archive  
of ECHA  
 
 http://echa.europa.eu/news/archive_
en.asp  Press releases of ECHA on the 
addition of substances to the 
Candidate List for authorisation also contain information on potential 
uses of these substances that was 
submitted to ECHA in Annex XV 
dossiers by EU  Member States.  
Monographs Database 
of the International 
Agency for Research 
on Cancer (IARC)  http://monographs.iarc.fr  IARC Monographs on the Evaluation 
of Carcinogenic Risks to Humans 
also contain information on 
production and use of substances.  
66 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Name  Source  Content  
SIN List database of 
the International 
Chemical Secretariat 
(ChemSec)  http://www.chemsec.org/list/sin -
database  Database contains information on 
information on sub stance uses and 
allows searches for use and 
function.  
Series “Survey of 
Chemical Substances 
in Consumer Products” http://www.mst.dk/English/Publicatio
ns  Survey and health assessments of 
chemical subst ances in different 
consumer products, such as 
jewelleries, hobby products for 
children, headphones and hearing 
protection aids, artificial nails and 
nail hardeners, etc.  
Different Eco -labels:  
EU Eco -label “Flower”  
Nordic Eco -label 
Blue Angel Eco -label 
Austrian Eco -label 
Thai Green Label   
http://www.eco -label.com , 
http://www.ecolabel.eu   
http://www.svanen.nu  
http://www.blauer -engel.de  
http://www.umweltzeichen.at  
http://www.tei.or.th/greenlabel  Eco-label requirements limiting and 
excluding the use of certai n 
substances in consumer goods.  
 
ESD for biocidal 
products (or treated 
materials)  http://ecb.jrc.ec.europa.eu/document
s/Biocides/EMISSION_SCENARIO_DO
CUMENTS  Docume nts used to estimate the 
initial release of substances from 
biocidal products (or treated 
materials) to the environment.  
Emission Scenario  
Documents (ESD)  http://w ww.oecd.org/document/46/0,
3343,en_2649_34373_2412462_1_1_
1_1,00.html  
 Documents that describe the 
sources, production processes, 
pathways and use patterns of 
substances in selected industry 
sectors (e.g. industries of plastics, rubber, textiles, leather, metal, 
paper, etc.)  
Information sources on substances in child care products  
Standard EN 14350- 2 
“Child use and care articles - Drinking 
equipment - Chemical 
requirements and test 
methods”  European Standards (ENs) can be 
obtained from national members of  
CEN 
(http://www.cen.eu/cen/Members/Pa
ges/default.aspx ) Limits the release of certain 
substances from drinking equipment 
for children.  
Information sources on substances in construction mater ial 
AgBB evaluation scheme  http://www.umweltbundesamt.de/pro
dukte -e/bauprodukte/agbb.htm  
  Quality standards related to human 
health for building products for 
indoor use (e.g. exclusion of CMR)  
 
Information sources on substances in electrical and electronic equipment  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 67 
 
Name  Source  Content  
Restriction of the use 
of certain hazardous 
substances in electrical 
and electronic 
equipment  
(RoHS Directive 
2002/95/EC)  
 http://ec.europa.eu/environment/was
te/weee  http://www.rohs.gov.uk  Six substances are banned in 
electrical and electronic equipment: 
Pb, Hg, Cd, Cr VI, PBB and PBDE.  
Information sources on substances in food contact materials  
Recommendations of 
the German Federal Institute for Risk 
Assessment on Plastics 
Intended to Come into 
Contact with Food  http://kse.zadi.de/kse/faces/DBEmpfe
hlung_en.jsp  Recommendations for substances in 
polymers.  
Directive 2002/72/EC 
relating to plastic 
materials and articles 
intended to come into 
contact with foodstuffs  http://ec.europa.eu/food/food/chemic
alsafety/foodcontact/legisl_list_en.ht
m  Lists specifying substances for use 
in food contact materials of plastic 
and possible restrictions for us age. 
Directive 78/142/EEC  
relating to materials 
and articles which 
contain vinyl chloride 
monomer and are 
intended to come into 
contact with foodstuffs  http://ec.eu ropa.eu/food/food/chemic
alsafety/foodcontact/legisl_list_en.ht
m  Limits the content of vinyl chloride 
monomer in food contact materials.  
Information sources on substances in textiles  
Oeko-Tex Standard 
100 http://ww w.oeko -tex.com  Limit values for certain substances 
in textiles.  
Information sources on substances in vehicles  
Directive 2000/53/EC 
on end -of life vehicles 
(ELV)  
 
International Dismantling 
Information System 
(IDIS)  http://ec.europa.eu/environment/was
te/elv_index.htm  
 
 
http://www.idis2.com  Requirements regarding the 
substances in materials and 
components of vehicles and end- of 
life vehicles.  
The IDIS w as developed by the 
automotive industry to meet the 
legal obligations of the ELV Directive 
and provide information to 
dismantling companies about the 
content of the banned heavy metals 
in car components.  
68 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Appendix 5.   Methods for the sampling and analysis of 
substances in articles  
The non -exhaustive list below contains examples of sampling methods and analytical 
methods for substances in articles, and in particular methods for the determination of 
substances released from articles. Please note that the division of th e list into different 
parts based on different types of article is not strict. More methods for different sectors 
and products can be obtained on the websites of CEN and its national members . 
Name  Source  Content  
Methods for the sampling and analysis of substances in miscellaneous articles  
Standard ISO 14025 
“Environmental labels 
and declarations -  
Type III environmental 
declarations - 
Principles and 
procedu res” http://www.iso.org  Standardised test Methods for 
chemical analysis of potential 
emission from articles.  
ChemTest module of 
the EU Exposure 
Assessment Toolbox.  http://web.jrc.ec.europa.eu/eis-
chemrisks/toolbox.cfm  Exposure testing methods, e.g. 
to quantify emissions of volatile 
chemicals from consumer 
products.  
Collection of methods 
of the German Federal 
Office of Consumer 
Protection and Food 
Safety (BVL)  http://www.methodensammlung -bvl.de  Methods for sampling and 
analysis of different articles of 
daily use.  
Methods for the sampling and analysis of substances in electrotechnical products  
Standar d IEC/PAS 
62596  
“Electrotechnical 
products - 
Determination of 
restricted substances -  
Sampling procedure -  
Guidelines”  http://www.iec.ch  Strategies to obtain samples 
from electrotechnical products, 
electronic assemblies, 
electronic components that can 
be used for analytical testing to 
determine the levels of 
restricted substances.  
Standard IEC 62321  
“Electrotechnical products - 
Determination of levels 
of six regulated 
substances […]”  http://www.iec.ch
 Methods to determine the 
levels of lead (Pb), mercury 
(Hg), cadmium (Cd), hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)) 
contained in inorganic and 
organic compounds, and two types of brominated flame 
retardants, polybrominated 
biphenyls (PBB) and 
polybromina ted diphenyl ethers 
(PBDE) contained in 
electrotechnical products.  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 69 
 
Name  Source  Content  
Methods for the sampling and analysis of substances in child care products and toys  
Standards DIN V 
53160- 1 and DIN V 
53160- 2 
“Determination of the 
colourfastness of 
articles for common 
use” http://www.din.de  Methods to determine the 
release of substances from 
articles in contact with saliva 
(e.g. toothbrushes) or sweat.  
Standard EN 71 -3 
“Safety of toys -  
Migration of certain 
elements”  European Standards  (ENs) can be obtained 
from national members of CEN 
(http://www.cen.eu/cen/Members/Pages/d
efault.aspx ) 
 Method to measure the 
migration of heavy metals, 
inorganic and organic 
substances from articles in 
contact with saliva or gastric 
acid. 
Methods for the sampling and analysis of substances in food contact materials  
Directive 82/711/EEC  http://ec.euro pa.eu/food/food/chemicalsaf
ety/foodcontact/legisl_list_en.htm   Basic rules necessary for 
testing migration of the 
constituents of plastic materials 
and articles intended to come 
into contact with foodstuffs.  
Standard EN 1186- 1 
“Materials and articles 
in contact with 
foodstuffs - Plastics - 
Part 1”  European Standards (ENs) can be obtained 
from national members of CEN 
(http://www.cen.eu/cen/Members/Pages/d
efault.aspx ) 
 Guide to the selection of 
conditions and test methods for 
overall migration.  
Standard EN 13130- 1 
“Materials and articles 
in contact with 
foodstuffs - Plastics 
substances subject to 
limitation - Part 1”  European Standards (ENs) can be obtained 
from national members of CEN 
(http://www.cen.eu/cen/Members/Pages/d
efault.aspx ) 
 Guide to test methods for the 
specific migration of substances 
from plastics to foods and food 
simulants and the 
determination of substances in 
plastics and the selection of 
conditions of exposure to food 
simulants.  
Methods for the sampling and analysis of substances in plastic articles  
Standard EN 1122 
“Plastics - 
Determination of 
cadmium - Wet 
decomposition 
method”  http://www.din.de  Method for quantification of 
cadmium in plastic articles.  
Other analysis methods 
include:  
- NAA (neutron activation 
analysis) 
- AAS (atomic absorption 
spectros.)  
- XRF (x -ray fluorescence 
spectros.)  
Methods for the sampling and anal yses of substances in building products, furniture, textile 
and leather  
70 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Name  Source  Content  
German Federal Health 
Bulletin 10/91  
(p. 487 -483) http://www.bundesgesundheitsblatt.de  Test methods for the analysis 
of wood -based materials.  
VDI guideline 3485  
“Ambient air 
measurement; measurement of 
gaseous phenolic 
compounds; p -
nitroaniline method”  http://www.vdi.de  Method for the measurement of 
phenolic compounds emitted 
from articles.  
Stand ards EN 717 -1, 
EN 717- 2 and EN 717-
3 
“Wood -based panels -  
Determination of 
formaldehyde release”  European Standards (ENs) can be obtained 
from national members of CEN 
(http://www.cen.eu/cen/Me mbers/Pages/d
efault.aspx ) 
 Methods (chamber method, gas 
analysis method, flask method) 
to determine formaldehyde 
release from articles.  
Standard DIN 75201  
“Determination of the windscreen fogging characteristics of trim 
materials in motor 
vehicles”  
 
Standard ISO 6452 
“Determination of 
fogging characteristics 
of trim materials in the interior of 
automobiles”  http://www.din.de  
 
 
 
 
 
http://www.iso.org  Methods to determine the 
condensable emissions from 
leather parts in cars.  
Standards EN 14362- 1 
and EN 14362- 2 
“Textiles - Methods for 
determination of 
certain aromatic 
amines derived from 
azo colorants”  European Standards (ENs) can be obtained 
from national members of CEN 
(http://www.cen.eu/cen/Members/Pages/d
efault.aspx ) 
 Part 1 describes a method for 
detection of the use of certain 
azo colorants accessible 
without extraction.  
Part 2 describes a method to 
detect the use of cer tain azo 
colorants accessible by 
extracting the fibres.  
Standards ISO 14184-1 and ISO 14184- 2 
“Textiles - 
Determination of 
formaldehyde”  http://www.iso.org
 
 
These standards can also be obtained as 
European Standards (EN  ISO 14184- 1 and 
EN ISO 14184- 2) from national members 
of CEN (
http://www.cen.eu/cen/Members/Pages/d
efault.aspx ) Methods to determine the 
formaldehyde emission from 
padding materials and text iles. 
Water extraction method to 
determine free and hydrolyzed 
formaldehyde, and vapour 
absorption method to 
determine released 
formaldehyde.  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 71 
 
Name  Source  Content  
Standards ISO 16000-
5, ISO 16000- 9, ISO 
16000- 10 and ISO 
16000- 11 
“Indoor air -  
Determination of the 
emission of volatile 
organic compounds 
from building products 
and furnishing”  http://www.iso.org  
 
These standards can also be obtained as 
European Standards (EN ISO 16000- 5, EN 
ISO 16000- 9, EN ISO 16000- 10 and EN 
ISO 16000- 11) from national members of 
CEN (
http://www.cen.eu/cen/Members/Pages/d
efault.aspx ) Sampling, storage of samples 
and preparation of test 
specimens; determination with 
emission test chamber method 
and emission test cell method.  
72 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Appendix 6.   Other legislation restricting the use of 
substances in articles  
Instrument  Coverage  Conditions  Notes  
(Biocides) 
Directive 98/8/EC  Biocidal products  • Substances included in 
Annex I may be used as 
active substances in 
biocidal pr oducts, Annex 
I may contain substance 
specific conditions  
• Authorisation of biocidal 
products at national 
level • The use of certain 
biocides is restricted by Regulation (EC) 
No 1907/2006  
• Restrictions on non -
active substances 
should be under Regulation (EC) N o 
1907/2006  
Directive 94/62/EC  Packaging and 
packaging waste  • Concentration limits for 
heavy metal content in 
packaging materials   
Directive 
76/768/EEC  Cosmetics  • Lists of banned and 
permitted substances 
for use in cosmetic 
products   
Regulation (EC) No 
842/2006  Greenhouse gases  • Restrictions on 
fluorinated greenhouse 
gases   
(RoHS25) Directive 
2002/95/EC  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendment 2006/690/EC  
   
 
 
Amendment 
2006/691/EC  
 
 
 
 
Amendment 2006/692/EC  Electrical and 
electronic equipment falling under 
categories set in 
Annex I A to 
(WEEE
26) Directive 
2002/96/EC  
 The use of Pb in 
crystal glass in 
specific materials and components 
used in electrical and 
electronic equipment  
 
Exemptions for applications of Pb 
and Cd in electrical 
and electronic 
equipment  
 
Exemptions for 
applications  of Cr(VI) 
in electrical and 
electronic equipment  • New equipment may not 
contain Pb, Hg, Cd, Cr(VI), PBB, PBDE  
• Exemptions listed in an Annex  
 
 
 
• Exemptions for 
applications of Pb in 
crystal glass 
 
 
 
 
• Exemptions granted based on a review 
process  
 
 
 
• Exempted u ntil 
1/07/2007   
                                           
25  Restriction of Hazardous Substances 
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 73 
 
Instrument  Coverage  Conditions  Notes  
Directive 
89/106/EEC  
Directive 
89/686/EEC  
 
Directive 
93/42/EEC  
Directive 98/79/EC  
 
Directive 
90/385/EEC  Construction 
products  
Personal protective 
equipment  
Medical devices  
In vitro diagnostic 
medical devices  
Active implantable 
medical devi ces • Contain general 
provisions on the 
materials from which 
the products covered 
can be made, especially 
specifying that they 
should not affect health 
of users and not release 
toxic gases  
• Directive 90/385/EEC 
also has a provision on 
bioavailability of 
subst ances in the 
devices   
Directive 
2006/66/EC  Batteries and  
accumulators    
(ELV27) Directive 
2000/53/EC  Vehicles and  
end-of life vehicles  • The use of Pb, Hg, Cg 
and Cr(VI) is prohibited 
in vehicles and their 
components   
(GPS28) Directive 
2001/95/EEC  All consu mer 
products or aspects 
of those products 
that are not covered 
by specific European 
safety legislation  • A number of measures, 
including published standards and codes of 
good practice may be 
taken into account in 
assessing safety  • Products must 
provide levels  of 
safety that 
consumers can 
reasonably expect  
(Toys) Directive 
2009/ 48/EC Toys as defined in 
Article 1  • Limit values for 
bioavailability of metals 
resulting from the use 
of toys  • Use of certain 
substances in toys 
restricted by 
Regulation (EC) No 
1907/200 6 
Directive 
93/11/EEC  Elastomer or rubber 
teats and soothers  • List of permitted, 
authorised and banned nitrosamines and N-
nitrosatable substances 
in elastomer or rubber 
teats and soothers   
Directive 
89/107/EEC  Additives to be used 
in foodstuffs  • Positive l ist of 
substances (only these 
to be used in foodstuffs 
and only certain 
conditions specified 
therein)   
                                                                                                                                    
26  Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 
27  End-of-Life Vehicles  
28  General Product Safety  
74 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 – December 2015  
 
Instrument  Coverage  Conditions  Notes  
Regulation (EC) No 
1935/2004  
 Materials and articles 
intended to come 
into contact with 
foodstuffs  
 
 • In Annex I groups of 
materials and articles are lis ted which shall be 
subject to specific directives  • Aims to ensure that 
all materials and articles in their 
finished state that 
come in contact to foodstuffs do not transfer substances 
in quantities that 
endanger human health or bring an 
unacceptable change 
in the composition of 
the foodstuffs  
Directive 
2002/72/EC  
 Plastic materials and 
articles intended to 
come into contact 
with foodstuffs  
 
 • Positive lists with 
authorised substances 
which excludes all 
others from use in a 
certain application  
• Annex II ‘monom ers 
and other starting 
substances’  
• Information on 
impurities in substances 
and constituents of 
mixtures  
• Overall and specific 
migration limits  • The aim of a positive 
list of substances is 
to protect consumer 
against health risks 
due to exposure to 
substances migrating 
into food  
Directive 
84/500/EEC  
 Ceramic materials 
and articles intended to come into contact 
with foodstuffs  • Determining the symbol 
that may accompany 
materials and articles 
intended to come into 
contact with foodstuffs   
Directive 
78/142/EEC  Materials and articles 
which contain vinyl 
chloride monomer 
and are intended to 
come into contact 
with foodstuffs  • Migration limits for vinyl 
chloride monomer in 
food contact materials   
Directive 
93/10/EEC  Materials and articles 
made of regenerated 
cellulos e film 
intended to come 
into contact with 
foodstuffs  • Migration limits for 
cellulose in food contact 
materials   
Regulation (EC) No 
1895/2005  Certain epoxy 
derivatives in 
materials and 
articles intended to 
come into contact 
with food  • Contains list of 
permit ted substances  
Guidance on r equirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0  – December 2015  
 75 
 
Appendix 7.   Parts of the REACH Regulation of particular 
relevance  
The following parts of the REACH Regulation are of particular relevance for producers, 
importers and suppliers of articles:  
• Article 3(3)  provides the definition of an article for the purpose of the REACH 
Regulation.  
• Article 7 defines under which circumstances article producers and importers have 
to register or notify substances in articles.  
• Articles 23  and 28  specify the deadlines for pre -registration and registration of 
phase -in subst ances.  
• Articles 29 and 30 create the data sharing obligations of registrants and the 
obligation to participate in Substance Information Exchange Fora (SIEF).  
• Articles 57 and 59 contain the criteria for substances of very high concern (SVHC) 
and the procedu re for inclusion of substances in the Candidate List of Substances of 
Very High Concern for authorisation.  
• Article 33  defines the duty of article suppliers to communicate information on 
SVHC in their articles to recipients and consumers.  
• Annex XVII  lists conditions of restrictions, which may pertain to certain substances 
in articles.  
The REACH Regulation as well as the Regulations amending it can be accessed through 
the website of ECHA. 
 
76 Guidance on requirements for substances in articles  
Version 3.0 December  2015  
 
 European Chemicals Agency  
P.O. Box 400, FI -00121 Helsinki  
http:/echa.europa.eu  