Report created on: 26.01.2024
Report on the LkSG (Supply Chain
Due Diligence Act)
Reporting period from 01.01.2023 to 30.09.2023
Name of the organization: Siemens Energy
Address: Otto-Hahn-Ring 6, 81739 Munich
Table of contents
A.Strategy & anchoring 2
A1. Monitoring of risk management & responsibility of the management2
A2. Policy statement on the human rights strategy4
A3. Anchoring the human rights strategy within the organization11
B.Risk analysis and preventive measures 13
B1. Implementation, procedure and results of the risk analysis13
B2. Preventive measures in own business area21
B3. Preventive measures for direct suppliers26
B4. Preventive measures for indirect suppliers29
B5. Communication of the results32
B6. Changes in risk disposition33
C.Identification of violations and corrective measures 34
C1. Identification of violations and corrective measures in own business area34
C2. Identification of breaches and corrective actions at direct suppliers41
C3. Identification of breaches and corrective actions for indirect suppliers42
D.Complaints procedure 43
D1. Establishment of or participation in a complaints procedure43
D2. Requirements for the complaints procedure51
D3. Implementation of the complaints procedure56
E.Review of risk management 57
A. Strategy & anchoring
A1. Monitoring of risk management & responsibility of the management
What responsibilities were defined for monitoring risk management during the reporting period ?
Siemens Energy has adapted its existing risk management system to the requirements of the Supply
Chain Duty of Care Act, which came into force at the beginning of 2023.
The Managing Board of Siemens Energy ensures that human rights and environmental due
diligence obligations are observed in the context of global business activities. It has defined clear
responsibilities for this. Our Human Rights Officer, Dr. Anita Schieffer, monitors the observance of
and compliance with these due diligence obligations at Siemens Energy and reports to the
Executive Board on this topic regularly and as required.
Our Human Rights Officer is responsible for monitoring risk management in accordance with the
LkSG: reviewing the risk analysis, the appropriateness of remedial and preventive measures, the
functionality of the complaints procedure and the completeness and documentation, including
annual reporting.
Page 1

A. Strategy & anchoring
A1. Monitoring of risk management & responsibility of the management
Has the management established a reporting process that ensures that it isregularly - at least once a
year - informed about the work of the person responsible for monitoring risk management?
It is confirmed that the management has established a reporting process that ensures that it is
informed regularly - at least once a year - about the work of the person responsible for monitoring
risk management within the meaning of Section 4 (3) LkSG.
Confirmed
Describe the process that ensures reporting to management at least once a year or regularly with
regard to risk management.
Our Human Rights Officer monitors compliance with due diligence obligations and reports on this
topic regularly (quarterly as part of a Compliance Review Board meeting) and on an ad hoc basis
to the Management Board. Key content of the reporting includes the results of our risk analysis
relevant to human rights and the environment, findings from the review of complaints received
and information on the effectiveness of our preventive and remedial measures. The Human Rights
Officer is supported in her work by representatives from various functions. The implementation of
due diligence obligations, the reduction of any risks and the elimination of violations are carried
out by the respective functions.
Page 2

A. Strategy & anchoring
A2. Policy statement on the human rights strategy
Is there a policy statement that has been prepared or updated on the basis of the risk analysis carried
out during the reporting period?
The policy statement has been uploaded.
Siemens Energy Policy Statement
https://p3.aprimocdn.net/siemensenergy/29fcba73-c5dd-4c28-be93-b07a00ed0a39/Human-
Rights-Policy-Statement-pdf_Original%20file.pdf
Page 3

A. Strategy & anchoring
A2. Policy statement on the human rights strategy
Has the policy statement for the reporting period been communicated?
It is confirmed that the policy statement has been communicated to employees, the works
council if applicable, the public and the direct suppliers where a risk was identified in the risk
analysis.
Confirmed
Please describe how the policy statement was communicated to the relevant target groups.
The policy statement was communicated to employees internally via an intranet article and a
video. The General Works Council, represented by the Economic Committee, was involved before
the policy statement was published. The policy statement is available on the Siemens Energy
website in German and English, both internally and externally. The Siemens Energy policy
statement is communicated to identified high-risk suppliers as part of the risk validation process.
Page 4

A. Strategy & anchoring
A2. Policy statement on the human rights strategy
What elements does the policy statement contain?
Establishment of a risk management system
Annual risk analysis
Incorporating preventive measures in the company's own business area, with direct suppliers  and,
  if applicable, indirect suppliers and a review of their effectiveness
Corrective measures in own business area, at direct suppliers and, if applicable, indirect
suppliers and a review of their effectiveness
Provision of a complaints procedure in the company's own business area, with suppliers and
review of its effectiveness
Documentation and reporting obligations
Description of the priority risks identified
Description of human rights-related and environmental expectations of own employees and
suppliers
Page 5

A. Strategy & anchoring
A2. Policy statement on the human rights strategy
Description of possible updates during the reporting period and the reasons for them.
The policy statement was published for the first time at the Group company level (Siemens Energy AG).
Page 6

A.Strategy & Anchoring
A3. Anchoring the human rights strategy within your own organization
In which relevant departments/business processes was the anchoring of the human rights strategy
ensured during the reporting period?
Personnel/HR
Environmental Management
Occupational Safety & Occupational Health Management
Communication / Corporate Affairs
Purchasing/Procurement
Supplier Management
CSR/Sustainability
Legal/Compliance
Quality Management
Internal Audit
Economic Committee
Other: Accounting
Describe how responsibility for implementing the strategy is distributed within the various
specialist departments/business processes.
At least one person per department/function has been nominated to implement the LkSG. The
respective functions (specialist departments) are responsible for implementing the due diligence
obligations, reducing any risks and remediating any breaches. The functions work closely together
in a cross-functional team.
The Human Rights Strategy is managed by the Legal & Compliance function. Among other things, it
is responsible for the focus area of human rights. It monitors the risk analysis process, carries o u t
risk-based ad hoc risk analyses, e.g. for projects, is responsible for the complaints procedure and
processes reports of potential compliance violations. This includes reports on human rights
violations and environmental risks in connection with the business activities of Siemens Energy
and its suppliers.
The strategy is anchored in the HR function, as well as the Occupational Health and Safety, Quality
Management and Environmental Management (EQS) functions, primarily for the company's own
business area.
The Purchasing/Procurement and Supplier Management function is responsible for implementing
the strategy in the supply chain. This is done in close coordination with the Legal & Compliance
function.
page 7

The CSR/Sustainability function and Accounting are closely coordinated with other sustainability
and Group reporting.
The Corporate Communications function was involved in the publication of the policy statement
and the LkSG report.
The Internal Audit department was commissioned to review and evaluate the implementation of the
requirements of the LkSG.
Page 8

Describe how the strategy is integrated into operational processes and procedures.
The representatives of the above-mentioned functions reviewed the existing processes as part of the
introduction of the LkSG for conformity with the human rights strategy. Where necessary, the
processes were adapted.
Page 9

Describe which resources & expertise are provided for implementation.
A cross-functional team consisting of experts from the Legal/Compliance, Purchasing/Procurement,
Sustainability, HR and EQS (Occupational Safety, Quality, Environmental Protection) functions was
setup at Group level for implementation. This team of experts also received support from
external consultants. The central functions were supported by regional experts from the
aforementioned functions as required.
page 10

B.Risk analysis and Preventive measures
B1. Implementation, procedure and results of the risk analysis
Was a regular (annual) risk analysis carried out during the reporting period to identify, weight
and prioritize human rights and environmental risks?
Yes, for own business area
Yes, for direct suppliers
Describe the period in which the annual risk analysis was carried out.
Own business area: 30.03.2023 - 15.05.2023
Supply chain: 28.02.2023 - 31.07.2023
page 11

Describe the risk analysis procedure.
At Siemens Energy, the analysis of possible violations of the legal positions protected by the
LkSG consists of two areas: the company's own business area and direct suppliers.
A tool-based analysis is carried out annually with the help of an external provider for both the
company's own business area and the supply chain.
The annual analysis of our own business division is carried out across cross-departmental and is
structured in two stages. In the first step, the abstract risk analysis, country-specific data on all risk
topics of the LkSG is evaluated using tools (e.g. UN/ILO).
All countries in which Siemens Energy has employees are divided into risk priority levels
(low /medium /high /very high). In a second step, the concrete risk analysis, an individualized
questionnaire is sent to all countries with a high or very high priority level. These are answered across
departments as part of workshops or assessments. The risks identified are evaluated and appropriate
mitigation measures are implemented.
A tool-based analysis of the risk disposition of direct suppliers is carried out for our supply chain.
This includes 10 country- and sector-specific indicators for all risk topics of the LkSG and is
specified using internal data (e.g. procurement volume, material /service). Identified high-risk
suppliers are subjected to further, more detailed validation, including an on-site audit. This
procedure was common practice at Siemens Energy before the LkSG came into force.
Siemens Energy consolidates the results of the risk analysis annually in order to identify certain
patterns of possible violations of the legal positions protected by the LkSG and to be able to
initiate targeted preventive measures.
Page 12

B.Risk analysis and preventive measures
B1. Implementation, procedure and results of the risk analysis
Were event-driven risk analyses also carried out during the reporting period?
Yes, due to a significant change in the risk profile, for example as a result of new
products/projects/opening up new markets
Yes, due to other reasons: As a result of media reporting on possible human rights violations in
the production of renewable energy modules.
Describe the specific occasions.
Project application: Turnkey engineering, procurement and construction solution in the utility
sector.
page 13

Describe the findings of the analysis with regard to a significantly changed and/or expanded risk
situation.
The risk analysis indicated a potential risk that forced labor could be used by indirect suppliers.
For information on preventive measures for potential indirect suppliers, see B4.
Page 14

Describe the extent to which findings from the processing of reports/complaints have been
incorporated.
In the present case, no findings from the processing of reports/complaints were included because
there were no reports or complaints about the risk of forced labor at potential indirect suppliers via
the Siemens Energy reporting channels. See B4 for information on preventive measures for
potential indirect suppliers.
Page 15

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B1. Implementation, procedure and results of the risk analysis
Results of the risk assessment
What risks were identified in the risk analysis(es) in your own business area?
Prohibition of hiring or using private/public security forces that could lead to negative impacts due
tolack of instruction or control
Disregard for occupational health and safety and work-related health hazards
Unlawful violation of land rights
Page 16

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B1. Implementation, procedure and results of the risk analysis
Results of the risk assessment
What risks were identified in the risk analysis(es) for direct suppliers?
Disregard for occupational health and safety and work-related health hazards
Disregard for freedom of association - freedom of association & right to collective bargaining
Prohibition of unequal treatment in employment
Ban on child labor
Prohibition of withholding an appropriate wage
Page 17

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B1. Implementation, procedure and results of the risk analysis
Results of the risk assessment
What risks were identified in the risk analysis(es) for indirect suppliers?
Prohibition of forced labor and all forms of slavery
Other prohibitions: In some Asian countries, forced labor may be used in the production of
renewable energy modules down the supply chain.
Page 18

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B1. Implementation, procedure and results of the risk analysis
Were the risks identified in the reporting period weighted and, if applicable, prioritized and, if so,
on the basis of which appropriateness criteria?
Yes, based on the expected severity of the injury in terms of degree, number of people affected and
irreversibility
Yes, on the basis of own influence
Yes, based on the probability of occurrence
Yes, based on the nature and scope of the company's own business activities
Yes, based on the type of causal contribution
Describe in more detail how the weighting and prioritization process was carried out and what
considerations were made.
A tool-based analysis is carried out annually with the help of an external provider for both the
company's own business area and the supply chain.
This means that all Siemens Energy locations are assigned a risk priority level based on country-
specific data .If a country has a rating of "high" or "very high" for at least one LkSG risk area, this is
verified using an individualized questionnaire. The country-specific risks identified are assessed and
mitigation measures are taken accordingly.
For our supply chain, a tool-based analysis of the risk exposure of direct suppliers is carried out in
this way. This includes 10 country- and sector-specific indicators for all risk topics of the LkSG and
is specified using internal data. Identified high-risk suppliers, i.e. suppliers whose risk indicators
exceed a defined threshold in accordance with the LkSG, are subjected to further, more detailed
validation, including an on-site audit. This procedure was common practice at Siemens Energy
before the LkSG came into force.
Page 19

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B2. Prevention measures in own business area
Which risks were prioritized in your own business area during the reporting period?
None
If no risks have been selected, give reasons for your answer.
For the reporting period, all identified LkSG risks were included in their entirety, meaning that no
prioritization was necessary.
Page 20

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B2. Prevention measures in own business area
What preventive measures were implemented for the reporting period to prevent and minimize
the priority risks in your own business area?
Implementation of training courses in relevant business areas
Implementation of risk-based control measures
Implementation of training courses in relevant business areas
Describe the measures implemented and, in particular, specify the scope (e.g. number,
coverage/area of application).
Siemens Energy held various training courses and information events on the LkSG in the relevant
business units Legal and Compliance, Human Resources, Occupational Health and Safety &
Occupational Health Management and Purchasing/Procurement/Supplier Management. As part of
the annual "Integrity Week", the topic of human rights and the requirements of the LkSG,
including the possibility of reporting violations via the compliance complaints procedure, was
communicated to all Siemens Energy employees. Further training is planned.
Web-based mandatory training or dedicated instructions for employees, for example on potential
hazards in the workplace, occupational health and safety measures in their area of work, are
carried out on a regular basis.
A learning platform offers our employees worldwide access to e-learning and trainer-led learning
options in various languages. Various content is taught, such as occupational health and safety,
compliance, inclusion & diversity and labor law.
The Management Board is informed by the Human Rights Officer both in quarterly Compliance
Review Board meetings and in individual discussions.
The committees, such as the Economic Committee and the Supervisory Board, are informed on an
ongoing basis about the status of implementation of the LkSG requirements and the fulfillment of
due diligence obligations.
Further information on this can be found in the Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2023:
https://p3.aprimocdn.net/siemensenergy/d66ceb42-cf25-45d4-9cd1-b0cf00ce4ca9/Siemens-
Energy_Sustainability-Report-2023-pdf_Original%20file.pdf
Page 21

Describe the extent to which training to prevent and minimize priority risks is appropriate and
effective.
Siemens Energy has carried out preventive training independently of identified risks. The
relevant business units were informed about the importance of the LkSG and sensitized to
prevent potential risks. The preventive training courses are appropriate and effective, as they
were carried out in a short time and made available to all relevant employees in the
aforementioned business units. The content of the training courses is also available to employees
who were unable to attend through recordings.
The content was conveyed in a practical manner using examples from day-to-day business. The
specific LkSG risks identified as part of the risk analysis are significant for the further development of
existing preventive measures.
Page 22

Implementation of risk-based control measures
Describe the measures implemented and, in particular, specify the scope (e.g. number,
coverage/area of application).
As part of annual and risk-based audits, a systematic review of processes, activities and systems
and their implementation is carried out throughout the Group to check compliance with the
required standards, guidelines, norms and laws relating to occupational health and safety and
environmental protection.
Siemens Energy is subject to various audits:
-External certification audits (e.g. to ISO 14001 and ISO 45001) carried out by an
accredited certifier.
-Internal audits
-External audits such as supplier audits
Security forces are inspected on a risk-based basis and on an ad hoc basis in high-risk countries as
part of on-site security inspections. This involves checking compliance with the company's
internal binding guidelines for the deployment of security personnel, including compliance with
human rights norms/standards.
Page 23

Describe to what extent the measures to prevent and minimize the priority risks are appropriate
and effective.
Weaknesses or deviations can beidentified via the control measures in the Occupational Health
and Safety, Environmental Protection and Safety Forces department. Corrective measures are
identified and implemented accordingly in order to resolve problems and prevent future incidents. The
results and implementation of the measures are tracked and documented in a global tool.
Annual planning, the risk-based approach and local implementation enable control measures to be
implemented efficiently and effectively, adapted to the respective situation.
Page 24

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B3. Preventive measures for direct suppliers
Which risks were prioritized for direct suppliers during the reporting period?
None
If no risks have been selected, give reasons for your answer.
For the reporting period, all identified LkSG risks were included in their entirety, meaning that no
prioritization was necessary.
Page 25

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B3. Preventive measures for direct suppliers
What preventive measures were implemented for the reporting period to prevent and minimize
the priority risks at direct suppliers?
Obtain contractual assurance for compliance and implementation of expectations along the supply
 chain
Training and further education to enforce the contractual assurance
Agreement and implementation of risk-based control measures
Other categories:
selected:
Obtain contractual assurance for compliance and implementation of expectations along the supply
 chain
Training and further education to enforce the contractual assurance
Agreement and implementation of risk-based control measures
Describe to what extent the measures to prevent and minimize the priority risks are appropriate
and effective.
In accordance with our Group-wide purchasing strategy, our suppliers are obliged to recognize our
Code of Conduct (CoC) during the supplier registration process. Our Code of Conduct and our terms
and conditions of purchase (in the event of an order) include the risk topics of the LkSG. The CoC, a
brochure with explanations of the CoC, such as access to the Siemens Energy complaints procedures
and our terms and conditions of purchase are subject to continuous review to ensure that they are up
to date. These documents can be viewed and downloaded at any time on the supplier portal of the
global Siemens Energy website. No further adjustments (delivery times, purchase prices, contract
duration) were necessary.
Our procurement strategy, which has been in place for many years, requires suppliers to
recognize and comply with the requirements of our CoC. We also review these requirements as
part of a risk analysis. This is part of our supplier selection process. Furthermore, the CoC and
the order conditions form part of our purchase contracts.
During the qualification process, our suppliers are required to complete a sustainability self-
assessment. In addition, suppliers with a higher risk potential are specifically audited by an
independent company to ensure compliance with the contents of our CoC. In the event of
deviations, dedicated  measures are agreed that the supplier must implement within a specified
Page 26

period in or d e r  t o  meet the requirements. The focus on suppliers with higher risk potential (risk-
based approach) represents a timely and cost-effective measure for the affected suppliers and
potentially helps them to identify weaknesses at an early stage and to eliminate them sustainably.
The employees in our procurement department were trained worldwide in several training
sessions on the requirements derived from the LkSG. The training sessions were designed to raise
the awareness of the mandated employees in our procurement department for the risks and
requirements in day-to-day business, which serves to balance risk minimization and effort.
page 27

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B4. Preventive measures for indirect suppliers
Which risks were prioritized based on the event-related risk analysis for indirect suppliers?
None
If no risks have been selected, give reasons for your answer.
For the reporting period, all identified LkSG risks were included in their entirety, meaning that no
prioritization was necessary.
page 28

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B4. Preventive measures for indirect suppliers
What preventive measures were implemented forthe reporting period to prevent and minimize
priority risks at indirect suppliers?
Development and implementation of suitable procurement strategies and purchasing practices
Other/further measures: Potential contractual agreements on traceability
Describe the measures implemented and, in particular, specify the scope (e.g. number,
coverage/scope).
 The corresponding negotiations had not yet been concluded during the reporting period.
page 29

Describe to what extent the measures to prevent and minimize the priority risks are appropriate
and effective.
In individual cases, we will request reliable information from our direct suppliers about the
origin and production sites of our indirect suppliers in order to ensure that the products are
manufactured in an ethical and environmentally friendly manner. In the event of risks or violations,
we can take remedial action against our direct suppliers. However, there is still a risk that local
regulations may conflict with these measures.
Page 30

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B5. Communication of the results
Were the results of the risk analysis(es) for the reporting period communicated internally to relevant
decision-makers?
It is confirmed that the results of the risk analysis(es) for the reporting period have been
communicated internally to the relevant decision-makers, such as the Executive Board, the
management or the purchasing department, in accordance with Section 5 (3) LkSG.
Confirmed
Page 31

B. Risk analysis and preventive measures
B6. Changes to the risk disposition
What changes have occurred  with regard to priority risks compared to the previous reporting
period?
2023 is being reported for the first time. For this reason, there is no basis for comparison with the
previous period.
Page 32

C. Identification of violations and corrective measures
C1. Identification of violations and corrective measures in own business area
Were any breaches identified in your own business area during the reporting period?
No
Describe which procedures can be used to detect violations in your own business area.
Violations in our own business area can be reported via the Siemens Energy complaints
 procedures. For details on the complaints procedures, see the "Complaints procedure" section.
Page 33

C. Identification of violations and corrective measures
C2. Identification of violations and corrective actions at direct suppliers
Were any violations identified at direct suppliers during the reporting period?
Yes
Describe the basis on which the identified violations were weighted and prioritized and what
considerations were made.
This relates to an identified violation by a supplier in India of the ban on disregarding applicable
occupational health and safety regulations with regard to working hours. This was classified as
plausible and investigated immediately. As this was a single violation, it did not have to be weighted
or prioritized.
Page 34

In which areas were violations identified at direct suppliers?
Disregard for occupational health and safety and work-related health hazards
Enter the number of
1
Page 35

Describe the appropriate remedial action you have taken.
An internal investigation was carried out after the possible violation was reported. Discussions
were held with the relevant persons and documents were examined, in particular attendance lists of
the supplier's employees were checked.
The following remedial measures were agreed and implemented: warning to the responsible
site manager, clarification and communication regarding the obligation to comply with applicable
labor law.
Page 36

Describe what considerations were made with regard to the selection and design of the measures
as part of the corresponding follow-up concepts for termination and minimization
In cooperation with the regional management, a plan was developed to remedy the identified
deficits, which the supplier was asked to implement. The implementation of the agreed measures and
compliance with human rights and environmental due diligence obligations was verified by the
regional company.
Page 37

Describe how the effectiveness of the corrective measures is verified.
The supplier documentation was randomly checked over a period of six months and no deficiencies
were subsequently identified. However, the contractual relationship with the supplier was
terminated for other reasons.
Page 38

Have the remedial measures led to the cessation of the injury?
Yes
Explain.
Random checks have not revealed any deficiencies. The supplier has fulfilled its obligation to
comply with local labor laws and regulations and the well-being of its employees. Awareness
was raised, communicated and all relevant site managers were reminded about legal
working conditions and the duty and responsibility to ensure that employees (internal and external)
work in accordance with local labor law requirements.
Page 39

Have you analyzed the extent to which the identified violation is an indication of a possible
Adaptation/supplementation of existing prevention measures? Describe the process, results and
effects.
The identified violation was reported using the existing complaints procedure and clarified as part of
the existing investigation procedures. It was an isolated incident. We have come to the
conclusion that our existing occupational health and safety prevention measures do not need to be
revised and that our existing processes have proven to be effective. No systemic violations or control
weaknesses were identified and therefore no adjustments to risk management were necessary.
Page 40

C.Identification of violations and remedial measures
C3. Identification of violations and corrective actions for indirect suppliers
Were any violations identified at indirect suppliers during the reporting period?
No
page 41

D. Complaints procedure
D1. Establishment of or participation in a complaints procedure
In what form was a complaints procedure offered for the reporting period?
In-house complaints procedure
Describe the company's own process and/or the process in which your company participates.
The web-based whistleblower portals "Speak Up" (Siemens Energy) and "Integrity Hotline"
(Siemens Gamesa) are available for receiving information on compliance violations. For reasons of
simplification, the term "Siemens Energy reporting channel" is used throughout this report, as the
complaints processes at Siemens Energy and Siemens Gamesa are the same.
Any internal and external persons such as (former) employees, suppliers and their employees,
customers, non-governmental organizations and other potentially affected persons can report violations
of the law and compliance, including human rights and environmental violations in connection with
Siemens Energy and its supply chain via various reporting channels.
Whistleblowers can contact the responsible compliance unit anonymously if they wish. The
whistleblower can communicate confidentially and anonymously with the responsible
compliance unit via a digital mailbox. The Siemens Energy reporting channel is accessible at any
time and in various languages via the global Siemens Energy or Siemens Gamesa website or by
telephone.
Our Code of Procedure ensures that complaints are dealt with systematically. We process all
incoming reports of possible human rights violations and breaches of environmental obligations in our
own business area and in our supply chain objectively and independently in a binding company-
wide procedure. Siemens Energy does not tolerate any punishment or discrimination against
whistleblowers. If allegations of reprisal become known, the compliance organization investigates
and evaluates the information received and, if necessary and possible, t a k e s  appropriate measures.
Secondly, potentially affected persons can contact an external compliance ombudsperson
responsible for the entire Group. As a lawyer, she is subject to a duty of confidentiality and may
not pass on any information to third parties - however, with the consent of the reporting person,
she can initiate the appropriate steps within Siemens Energy.
page 42

D. Complaints procedure
D1. Establishment of or participation in a complaints procedure
Which potentially involved parties have access to the complaints procedure?
Own employees
Communities in the vicinity of own locations
Employees at suppliers
External stakeholders such as NGOs, trade unions, etc.
Other: The complaints procedure is available to all external and internal persons.
How is access to the complaints procedure ensured for the various groups of potentially involved
parties?
Publicly accessible rules of procedure in text form
Information on accessibility
Information on responsibility
Information on the process
All information is clear and understandable
All information is publicly accessible
Publicly accessible rules of procedure in text form
Optional: Describe.
-
page 43

Information on accessibility
Optional: Describe.
-
Page 44

Information on responsibility
Optional: Describe.
-
Page 45

Information on the process
Optional: Describe.
-
Page 46

All information is clear and understandable
Optional: Describe.
-
Page 47

All information is publicly accessible
Optional: Describe.
-
page 48

D. Complaints procedure
D1. Establishment of or participation in a complaints procedure
Were the rules of procedure for the reporting period publicly available?
The file has been uploaded.
The Rules of Procedure:
Siemens Energy Rules of Procedure for the Processing of Notices:
https://p3.aprimocdn.net/siemensenergy/f19de269-c455-433a-a3f8-b050013dbfce/Complaint-
Handling-Rules-of-procedure-pdf_Original%20file.pdf
Siemens Gamesa rules of procedure for handling of complaints:
https://www.siemensgamesa.com/en-int/-
/media/siemensgamesa/downloads/en/sustainability/compliance/rules-procedure-handling-
complaints.pdf?la=en-bz&hash=222410E079A61110E670666C456C5E085ABA6C1E
page 49

D. Complaints procedure
D2. Requirements for the complaints procedure
Indicate the person(s) responsible for the procedure and their function(s).
In principle, the Siemens Energy Compliance Organization is the designated recipient of
information from the reporting channels. The Compliance Organization is responsible for
processing and, if necessary, further investigating the information received as a result of a report.
At Siemens Gamesa, the compliance organization and the associated reporting chain are available
accordingly.
To implement the complaints procedure, the Compliance Organization is independent of instructions
and reports directly to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of Siemens Energy via
Dr. Anita Schieffer (Group Compliance Officer). The Group Compliance Officer ensures that the
employees of the Compliance Organization are subject to a special duty of confidentiality, are
impartial and have the necessary expertise in dealing with complaints.
It is confirmed that the criteria contained in Section 8 (3) LkSG are met for the responsible
parties , i.e. that they offer the guarantee of impartial action, are independent and not bound
by instructions and are obliged to maintain confidentiality
Confirmed
Page 50

D. Complaints procedure
D2. Requirements for the complaints procedure
It is confirmed that precautions were taken during the reporting period to protect those potentially
involved from being disadvantaged or penalized as a result of a complaint.
Confirmed
Describe what precautions have been taken, in particular how the complaints procedure ensures
the confidentiality of the identity of whistleblowers.
Reports can be submitted anonymously if desired. This should preferably be done viathe Siemens
Energy reporting channel, as this  provides an anonymous reporting channel with the option
of anonymous contact in the event of queries. However, Siemens Energy will also accept any
anonymous report via one of the other reporting channels specified in the Rules of Procedure.
If a whistleblower wishes to disclose his or her identity, Siemens Energy will treat it
confidentially. Protecting the confidentiality of a whistleblower's identity is a top priority for Siemens
Energy. Only persons who are required to receive and process the report will be informed or
become aware of it, whereby a strict "need-to-know" principle applies. The identity of the persons
named in the report, other affected parties and the content of the report are alsotreated
confidentially.
Page 51

Describe what precautions have been taken, in particular what other measures are in place to
protect whistleblowers.
The Siemens Energy reporting channel offers whistleblowers the opportunity to submit their
complaints anonymously.
If a whistleblower wishes to disclose his or her identity, the protection of confidence is ensured by a
strict "need to know" principle regarding the identity of the whistleblower as well as the persons named
in the report , other affected parties and the content of the report.
Siemens Energy does not tolerate retaliation (such as harassment, intimidation, hostility or other
retaliation) against whistleblowers who report in good faith and to the best of their knowledge. This
prohibition applies to any action that could directly or indirectly affect the whistleblower, including,
but not limited to, the whistleblower's employment, earning potential, career development or other
work or business-related interests.
If the Siemens Energy Compliance Organization receives a report of ongoing or imminent
retaliation, it will evaluate the allegation accordingly and - to the extent factually, procedurally and
legally possible - handle or sanction it.
page 52

D.Complaints procedure
D3. Implementation of the complaints procedure
Did you receive any information about the complaints procedure during the reporting period?
Yes
Provide details on the number, content, duration and outcome of the procedures.
Several complaints were received in the reporting period, of which fewer than ten were classified
asrelevant. The complaints concerned allegations of human rights violations, in particular disregard for
occupational health and safety in relation to working hours at suppliers. Only one complaint concerned the
company's own business area (in the form of a customer project).
The complaints related, in particular, to non-European countries (e.g. Brazil and India).
All allegations were investigated, starting with plausibility checks and - where possible -
contacting the whistleblower and the corresponding further investigations, which included
interviews with the parties involved and document checks. All investigations were completed
within a reasonable period of time.
In the majority of cases, the allegations were not confirmed, but necessary (preventive) measures
were taken in individual cases.
In one case, the allegations were confirmed and corrective measures were taken and implemented
(see Chapter C2 - Violations and corrective measures).
No systemic violations or control weaknesses were identified and therefore no adjustments to
risk management were necessary.
page 53

On which topics have complaints been received?
Disregard for occupational health and safety and work-related health hazards
Disregard for freedom of association - freedom of association & right to collective bargaining
Page 54

Describe what conclusions have been drawn from the complaints/reports received and to
what extent these findings have led to adjustments in risk management.
No adjustments to risk management were necessary, as the risk management processes
function as intended. No indications of systemic (compliance) violations or control
weaknesses were identified.
Page 55

E. Review of risk management
Is there a process in place to review the appropriateness and effectiveness of risk management across
the board?
In which of the following areas of risk management is the appropriateness and effectiveness
checked?
Risk analysis and prioritization process
Preventive measures
Remedial measures
Complaints procedure
Documentation
Describe how this audit is carried out for the respective area and what results it has led to,
particularly with regard to the prioritized risks.
Siemens Energy's Group-wide risk management generally provides for various processes to review
appropriateness and effectiveness. The basis for this is the "Three Lines of Defense" model. Based
on risk assessment and taking into account internal Group requirements, the operational managers
(first line) implement measures and controls. The second line (monitoring) defines specific
requirements for risk-relevant topics and monitors the effectiveness of the measures and controls.
The third line (audit and auditing) carries out independent audits of risk management by the first and
second lines.
Page 56

E. Review of risk management
Are there processes or measures in place to ensure that the interests of your employees, the
employees within your supply chains and those who may otherwise be directly affected in a
protected legal position by the economic activities of your company or by the economic activities of
a company in your supply chains are adequately taken into account when establishing and
implementing risk management?
In which areas of risk management do processes or measures exist to take into account the
interests of those potentially affected?
Resources and expertise
Preventive measures
Remedial measures
Complaints procedure
Describe the processes and measures for the respective area of risk management.
A cross-functional project team was set up from the relevant functions at the global level (Legal and
Compliance, Purchasing/Procurement/Supplier Management, HR, Occupational Health and
Safety, Environmental Management CSR/Sustainability) in order to incorporate resources and
expertise from different perspectives. The global team is supported by regional teams.
Preventive and corrective measures were reviewed and adjusted forcompleteness and effectiveness
following the annual risk analysis.
Siemens Energy committees such as the Works Council, the Supervisory Board and the Economic
Committee were informed of all due diligence obligations.
The complaints procedure is available to both internal and external employees within the supply
chain as well as other parties affected by our business activities and enables anonymized reports to be
made if required.
Page 57
