Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022 – SASB IndexPage 1Topic Accounting Metric Code Reference Explanation
Energy Management Total energy consumed RT-EE-130a.1  Sustainability Report 2022:  p. 35
Percentage grid electricity
Percentage renewable  Sustainability Report 2022:  p. 3 3
Hazardous Waste Management Hazardous Waste Management RT-EE-150a.1  Sustainability Report 2022:  p. 46
Number and aggregate quantity of 
reportable spills, quantity recoveredRT-EE-150a.2  Sustainability Report 2022:  p. 48 We are reporting significant environmental incidents. During the fiscal year 2022, there were two significant environmental incidents 
related to Siemens Energy (fiscal year 2021: two). One was related to an oil spill from a transformer that had been caused by an act 
of vandalism, and the second was the release of a moderate amount of SF6 due to the failure of an instrumentation device during 
equipment testing.
Product Safety Number of recalls issued, total units 
recalledRT-EE-250a.1 not applicable "By continually analyzing our products, solutions and services, quantifying their impacts and determining areas of improvement, we 
are building the foundation for deriving and implementing measures contributing to a circular economy. Product stewardship at 
Siemens Energy follows the key standards of the ISO 14000 series, with individual approaches for each Division. The approach is 
centrally supported by the respective Global Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) departments. It is also an integral part of our 
Zero Harm approach, which aims to prevent adverse effects to health and the environment due to our business and operational activi -
ties. Product safety and product quality topics are also addressed via defined circulars, reporting lines and organizational structures. 
Customers, developers and manufacturers are provided with user and service manuals that describe the safe use of products, func -
tionality and product maintenance requirements.
The new GP product safety system was implemented in October 2021 and is valid for all GP Units. The system focuses on both the 
technical and organizational aspects of product safety. The technical aspect ensures that the products developed, manufactured and/
or sold by GP are safe and do not cause any unacceptable risk to the life, health or property of third parties. In fiscal year 2022 
internal controls were defined and implemented. These controls focus on the company obligation toward product monitoring and 
internal and external product warnings."
Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with product safetyRT-EE-250a.2Siemens Energy – Sustainability Report 2022:
SASB Index
Siemens Energy Sustainability Report 2022 – SASB IndexPage 2Topic Accounting Metric Code Reference Explanation
Product Lifecycle Management Percentage of products by revenue 
that contain IEC 62474 declarable 
substancesRT-EE-410a.1 We are currently not reporting products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 declarable substances. However, Siemens Energy uses 
globally standardized materials and substances registers for restricted and declarable substances and products. The lists identify any 
substances that need to be declared for each product and are updated every six months according to current directives from the 
European Chemicals Agency. As part of the Siemens Energy supplier assessment and qualification process, suppliers are required to 
identify whether any of their products or components contain substances that need to be declared according to the specific legisla -
tion. Suppliers then need to provide a detailed declaration should any such substances be used within their design and manufactur -
ing activities. We encourage our suppliers to use the industry substance management platform BOMCheck to share declarations for 
substances of very high concern (SVHC) and link this information to our IT systems. In this way, we can proactively manage risks relat -
ed to substance restrictions. This year we continued the implementation of the reporting requirement SCIP (Substances of Concern In 
Products), a database established under the EU’s Waste Framework Directive that registers products containing SVHC. 
Percentage of eligible products, by 
revenue, that meet ENERGY STAR® 
criteriaRT-EE-410a.2
Revenue from renewable energy RT-EE-410a.3  Sustainability Report 2022:  p. 30/31 We are disclosing revenue, capital expenditure and operating expenses in line with EU Taxonomy criteria. 
Materials Sourcing Description of the management of 
risks associated with the use of 
critical materialsRT-EE-440a.1  Sustainability Report 2022:  p. 51/52, 54, 57
Business Ethics Description of policies and practices 
for prevention of:  
(1) corruption and bribery and  
(2) anti-competitive behaviorRT-EE-510a.1
Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with bribery or corruptionRT-EE-510a.2
Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with anticompetitive behavior 
regulationsRT-EE-510a.3
Activity Metric Number of units produced by product 
categoryRT-EE-000.A To get an understanding of our company structure, please refer to  Sustainability Report 2022:  Siemens Energy at a glance, p. 9
Number of employees RT-EE-000.B  Sustainability Report 2022:  p. 72