TECH CORNER
DRY GAS SEALS
GAUTAM CHHIBBER  leads the 
Proposals team for Siemens 
Energy’s Industrial Applications 
business. He can be reached at 
gautam.chhibber@ siemens.com
MATT LEWIS  is a proposal engineer 
for Siemens Energy’s Industrial 
Applications business. 
He can be reached at 
matthew.lewis@ siemens.com
RANDY MOORE  is the head of the 
Dry Gas Seals team for Siemens 
Energy’s Industrial Applications 
business. He can be reached at 
moore.randy@ siemens.comTHE AUTHORfugitive emissions while improving 
compressor performance.  
DGS vs. wet oil seals
All centrifugal compressors feature seals 
installed around the rotating shaft, which 
prevent process gas from escaping the 
compressor casing. Wet seals use circulating 
oil as a barrier and were utilized extensively 
up until the 1990s. Since then, dry gas seals 
have been installed on virtually every newly 
manufactured compressor. These seals offer 
Centrifugal compressor end-users 
across the oil and gas industry 
face a host of challenges in today’s 
environment. Chief among these include a 
growing need to conserve costs and reduce 
carbon emissions simultaneously. 
Historically, fugitive emissions from 
centrifugal compressors in natural gas 
applications have been accepted as a 
normal part of operation, particularly in 
the midstream and downstream markets. 
However, with increasing pressure to 
decarbonize, many regulatory agencies 
worldwide are proposing new limits on 
fugitive emissions. Canada leads this charge 
with new federal compressor methane limits 
set to take effect in 2023. Other markets, 
including the United States and the European 
Union, are implementing new and more 
stringent policies. 
Today, nearly all new centrifugal 
compressor installs feature dry gas seals 
(DGS). While these units exhibit leakage 
rates across seals that comply with virtually 
every region’s current regulations and 
most, but not all, proposed (i.e., future) 
regulations, there are still thousands of 
legacy compressors in operation across 
the midstream sector that predate DGS 
technology and utilize wet oil seals. With 
fugitive emissions rates as high as 200 
cfm (5.6 m3/min), these compressors are at 
significant risk of non-compliance [1].
This article looks at how this problem can 
be addressed through either a DGS retrofit 
and/or recompression. Both options require 
a relatively low up-front CAPEX investment 
and represent the lowest possible emissions 
approach to reduce (and even eliminate) A dry approach to 
centrifugal compressor 
emissions mitigation
Dry gas seal retrofits, 
recompression help 
legacy compressors 
comply with current, 
future regulations. 
ByMatt Lewis, 
Randy Moore and 
Gautam Chhibber
REPRINTED FROM COMPRESSORTECH2
MARCH 2021
TECH CORNER
DRY GAS SEALS
NO PARASITIC POWER LOSSES  Oil circulation 
equipment, such as pumps, require power 
to run. Electricity consumption can be as 
high as 100 kW per hour, depending on the 
size of the compressor. This is an order of 
magnitude higher than the electrical load for 
a DGS system (around 5 to 6 kW).  NO OIL INGRESS  With dry gas seals, there 
is no oil ingress risk across the seal into 
the process gas. Thus, the potential for 
contamination is eliminated and product 
quality can be maintained. 
DGS retrofit
Given the inherent drawbacks of wet seal 
systems, particularly regarding fugitive 
emissions, an increasing number of 
centrifugal compressor end-users have 
begun looking at options to upgrade their 
legacy units. 
While replacing a new compressor unit 
equipped with a DGS system would be 
preferable, it is not a viable option for many 
across the oil and gas industry whose capital 
budgets have been slashed amidst the 
sustained low-price environment. For these 
operators, a DGS retrofit is a more economical 
option.
Siemens Energy has been manufacturing 
and installing API 692-compliant DGS for 
decades and offers a suite of DGS upgrade 
solutions for centrifugal compressors. 
Solutions apply to any compressor OEM/
nameplate. They are suitable for inlet 
pressures of up to 3626 psi (250 bar) and numerous technical advantages over wet 
seal systems, including:
REDUCED EMISSIONS  Although wet and dry 
seals exhibit similar leakage rates across 
the seal face (typically between 2 to 6 cfm 
[0.05 to 0.16 m3/min]), wet seals generate 
significantly higher emissions when 
circulating oil is degassed. In compressors 
with dual wet seals, fugitive emissions rates 
between 40 to 200 cfm (1.1 to 5.6 m3/min) 
are not uncommon. The exact rate is mostly 
a function of the seal size and operating 
pressure. 
IMPROVED RELIABILITY, LESS MAINTENANCE   
Compressors with wet seals require ancillary 
systems and equipment to circulate and 
treat oil. These systems are often old and 
need extensive maintenance. If the oil 
circulating system does fail, the compressor 
must be taken offline. Catalyst/oil 
changeouts can also contribute to outages. 
This is not an issue with dry gas seals, as 
complex electro-mechanical systems are not 
required to support them. The result is fewer 
failure points and higher uptime. 
>
FIGURE 11  Nearly all of today’s centrifugal compressor installs use dry gas seals. 
FIGURE 22 
Siemens Energy’s RF compressor family offers 
high efficiency and a wide operating range, 
helping midstream operators reduce fuel 
consumption and lower emissions output.
REPRINTED FROM COMPRESSORTECH2 
MARCH 2021
TECH CORNER
DRY GAS SEALS
temperatures from -175°F to 482°F (-115°C to 
250°C) [maximum seal gas temperature of 
320°F (160°C)]. 
To ensure retrofit compatibility for 
installed compressors, the DGS cartridge is 
designed to fit any casing cavity using site 
tooling. DGS panels and boosters can also 
be upgraded to meet the latest industry 
standards. As part of the retrofit, advanced 
analytics that can assist with diagnostics 
and digital simulation of the DGS are offered.
At the heart of the DGS system is a pair 
of rings. A stationary ring is held against a 
rotating ring by spring pressure. The rotating 
ring’s contact face incorporates unique 
fill-riding geometries in the form of groves 
or tapered lands on the outer portion [2]. The 
seals are available in multiple configurations, 
including:
SINGLE DGS - for restrictive applications
DOUBLE DGS - for lower pressure applications 
where zero-emissions operation is required.
TANDEM DGS - When a lower emission and 
high-pressure tolerant solution is needed 
(optional without intermediate labyrinth). 
Siemens Energy’s tandem DGS upgrade can 
achieve emissions rates as low as 2 cfm 
(0.05 m3/min). 
CARBON RING SEPARATION SEAL - for protecting 
dry gas seals from bearing oil ingress
CARBON RING PROCESS SEAL - for minimizing 
clean gas flow and for maintaining a clean 
process side environment.
Double and tandem DGS upgrades ensure 
compliance with all current and proposed 
emissions regulations, including Europe 
and the Americas. In certain countries, 
re-bundling of internals (i.e., re-aero) of 
existing compressors are considered a 
new installation, and previously established 
emissions limits are no longer valid. In this 
case, end-users need to replace the DGS to 
meet the latest regulatory requirements.
Driving toward zero emissions
Except for a double DGS configuration, 
additional measures must be employed to 
eliminate fugitive emissions from centrifugal 
compressors. Although this is currently 
not a requirement in many markets, it is 
relevant for operators who have made commitments to achieve carbon neutrality 
and decarbonization. 
In such cases, recompression via 
an electric motor-driven reciprocating 
compressor can be used to capture any 
amount of leakage across seals. The 
recovered gas can then be injected back 
into the process stream at the suction 
or discharge header. This solution is OEM 
agnostic and applies to greenfield and 
brownfield installations.
In cases where a gas turbine is used 
nearby, either as a direct drive for the 
compressor or electricity generation, 
the gas can be injected into the fuel 
inlet. Another potential application is fuel 
heating. The process gas volume and flow 
rate will ultimately dictate the size of the 
reciprocating compressor unit needed for the 
recompression system. 
In all cases, recompression enables 
zero-emissions compressor operation. It 
also offers the added benefit of capturing 
blowdown emissions from station 
depressurization or scheduled maintenance 
activities. During these events, process gas 
between isolation valves must be vented 
to the atmosphere or flared. Depending 
on the compression system, a single 
depressurization could result in thousands of 
standard cubic feet of methane emissions. 
It is not uncommon for this to take place 
multiple times per year. 
Additionally, recompression offers 
scalability. A single system can be used 
to capture emissions from more than one compressor, making it a highly cost-
effective option for applications with 
multiple legacy compressors operating 
in the same service. A stand-by motor-
reciprocating compressor can be installed 
for redundancy purposes. 
Conclusion 
Historically, conversations surrounding 
carbon emissions regarding compression 
trains have focused on those generated 
from combustion processes, such as 
burning fuel in gas turbines or gas engines. 
Blowdown/venting has also been a key 
area of interest. However, as regulations 
tighten and operators look to decarbonize 
voluntarily, fugitive emissions are coming 
under increased scrutiny. 
Whenever possible, end-users should 
simplify their upgrade projects by engaging 
with vendors that can handle a large portion 
of the supply scope. Sole-source provisioning 
streamlines interface management by 
enabling one point of contact for critical 
components, including the DGS system, the 
recompression system and other ancillary 
mechanical and electrical systems. It also 
ensures that synergy and optimization 
opportunities are identified to minimize 
costs and emissions to the greatest possible 
extent. CT2
REFERENCES:
https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2016-06/
documents/ll_ wetseals.pdf
https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/offerings/
industrial-applications/oil-gas/services/dry-gas-seals.html
FIGURE 33  Greenhouse gas / fugitive emissions recovery via an integrated recompression solution. 
If you enjoyed this article, subscribe to the COMPRESSORTECH2 magazine.  
www.compressortech2.com/subscribe
REPRINTED FROM COMPRESSORTECH2MARCH 2021