Rugged Performer
Designed to API-618 specifications,the 
HHE-VG is available in standard stroke sizes 
from 8 to 15 inches (203-381 mm) with up  
to 10 throws.
For long-lasting reliability, the HHE-VG 
frame is engineered to the highest 
standards. The fine-grain, cast iron frame 
provides maximum stability through the use 
of internally ribbed walls and integral cross-
member bearing saddle supports located 
between each crankthrow. The frame’s rigid 
design is further enhanced with precision 
spacer blocks and tie rods at each bearing 
point. This greatly reduces distortion caused 
by gas and inertia forces. To ensure precise 
bearing alignment, the bearing saddles are 
bored in a single set-up.Optimized Design, Precision-Built
Every HHE-VG is built with optimized crank 
angles and a minimum number of crank 
throws, resulting in minimal unbalanced 
forces and moments on the foundation. 
Available with up to ten throws, the design 
flexibility doesn’t limit the HHE to an even 
number of crank throws. The result of this 
variable crank angle design is a compressor 
that requires minimum foundation size and 
expense, reduced drive-train torsional 
stresses, and reduced motor current 
pulsation and power costs. The crankshaft is 
forged from high tensile strength alloy steel 
that is fully stress-relieved and heat-treated. 
All journals and crankpins are precision-
ground and polished to exacting tolerances.Our first HHE-class compressor  
was installed more than  
50 years ago. Continuous 
advancements in technology have 
allowed us to enhance the HHE’s 
reputation as a highly reliable, 
heavy-duty process compressor. 
With more than 3,000 units serving 
in applications around the world, 
the HHE process compressor has 
proven to be an outstanding 
choice for a variety of 
applications.
Dresser-Rand HHE-VG
Reciprocating Process Compressor
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressors
Rugged, precision-machined tri-metal 
main and crankpin bearings are 
generously sized and micro-babbit 
coated for best run-in and long-lasting 
service. Bearings are provided on both 
sides of each crankthrow and doubled 
on the drive end. All bearings are forced-
lubricated per API-618 specifications. 
Connecting rods are die-forged steel 
with rifle-drilled passages for positive 
lubrication of the crosshead pin and 
bearings.
The flanged crosshead is designed for 
error-free assembly, ensuring maximum 
reliability through the hydraulic pre-
stressing of the critical piston-to-
crosshead bolting. Hydraulic tensioning 
reduces labor and maintenance 
downtime while increasing safety and 
reliability. The crosshead flange is firmly 
secured to the piston rod by a 
hydraulically tensioned nut and the 
flange is then attached to the crosshead 
using six hydraulically tensioned studs. 
The design employs an adjusting ring on 
the nose of the crosshead to facilitate 
adjustment of piston rod run-out 
without having to re-shim the crosshead 
shoes. A spacer provides a simple, 
one-time adjustment of piston-to-
cylinder end clearance. The hydraulics 
are located in the tensioning tool instead 
of the piston nut where an O-ring failure 
might otherwise necessitate torching 
through the rod to disassemble the joint. 
An air-motor driven hydraulic pump, 
tensioning devices and piston rod 
alignment tools are provided.
All frame and distance piece inspection 
and service openings are extra large to 
permit easy access. Bolting for frame-to-
frame extension, and distance piece-to-
cylinder is external, making tensioning 
easy and accurate.
Outstanding Cylinder  
Design and Selection
Each cylinder is designed with the 
capability of loading the frames 
maximum allowable continuous rod load. All cylinder bolting, piston nut, and 
valve differential pressures meet this 
design criteria. This will permit future 
flexibility if process conditions change or 
the compressor is reapplied for another 
application.
With experience in virtually every type 
of service, our cylinders provide 
outstanding service and reliability. Our 
engineering expertise will ensure that 
each cylinder built for your application 
will provide maximum performance and 
reliability with minimum maintenance cost. Cylinder materials include nodular 
iron, cast steel, fabricated carbon or 
stainless steel, and forged steel. Most 
cylinders are available for either 
lubricated or non-lubricated service.
Dimensions
Dimensions provided are typical,  
basis API Type B distance pieces. For 
Types C & D distance pieces, add  
32 inches (81 cm) to the width 
dimension and 16 inches (41 cm) to  
the rod removal distance.ROD  
REMOVAL  
DISTANCE
96in. 
(244 cm)338 in. 
(859 cm)52in. 
(132 cm)L
Published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry 
4400 N Alafaya Trail 
Orlando, FL  32826 
USA
 
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry 
Siemenspromenade 9 
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Specifications
Maximum HP 13,125 (9,787 kW)
Standard strokes 8 to 15 inch (203 to 381 mm)
Number of throws Up to 10
Cylinder bore range 5 to 42.5 inch (127 to 1,080 mm) max bore
HHE-VG Typical Length (L) Dimension
Throws  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Inches 69 95 122 149 175 202 228 254 281 308
Centimeters 174 241 309 377 445 512 579 646 714 781