Rugged Performer
The HHE-VB offers a sizable solution to a 
majority of process requirements. Designed 
to API-618 specifications, the HHE-VB is 
available in standard stroke sizes of 8.5, 10, 
11, or 12 inches (216, 254, 279, or 305 mm) 
with up to six throws.
For long-lasting reliability, the HHE-VB frame 
is engineered to the highest standards. The 
fine-grain, cast iron frame provides 
maximum stability through the use of 
internally ribbed walls and integral cross-
member bearing saddle supports located 
between each crankthrow. The frame’s rigid 
design is further enhanced with precision 
spacer blocks and tie rods at each bearing 
point. This greatly reduces distortion caused 
by gas and inertia forces. To ensure precise 
bearing alignment, the bearing saddles are 
bored in a single set-up.Optimized Design, Precision-Built
Every HHE-VB is built with optimized crank 
angles and a minimum number of crank 
throws, resulting in minimal unbalanced 
forces and moments on the foundation. 
Available with up to six throws, the HHE-VB 
frame is designed with intergral frame 
extension crosshead guides. The design 
flexibility does not limit the HHE-VB to an 
even number of crank throws. The result of 
this variable crank angle design is a 
compressor that requires minimum 
foundation size and expense, reduced 
drive-train torsional stresses, and reduced 
motor current pulsation and power costs. 
The crankshaft is forged from high tensile 
strength alloy steel that is fully stress-
relieved and heat-treated. All journals and 
crankpins are precision-ground and polished 
to exacting tolerances.Our first HHE-class compressor  
was installed more than  
50 years ago. Continuous 
advancements in technology have 
allowed us to enhance the HHE’s 
reputation as a highly reliable, 
heavy-duty process compressor. 
With more than 3,000 units serving 
in applications around the 
world, the HHE process 
compressor has proven to  
be an outstanding choice for  
a variety of applications.
Dresser-Rand HHE-VB
Reciprocating Process Compressor
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressors
Rugged, precision-machined, tri metal 
main and crankpin bearings are 
generously sized and micro-babbit 
coated for best run-in and long-lasting 
service. Bearings are provided on both 
sides of each crankthrow and doubled at 
the drive end. All bearings are forced-
lubricated per API-618 specifications. 
Connecting rods are die-forged steel 
with rifle-drilled passages for positive 
lubrication of the crosshead pin and 
bearings.
The nodular iron crosshead is equipped 
with adjustable top and bottom 
aluminum shoes which are babbit 
coated to facilitate proper run-in. To 
reduce unbalanced primary forces, 
balance weights can be added. The 
crosshead utilizes a multi-bolt torque 
nut to properly tension the piston rod to 
the crosshead. This permits tightening 
without the need for large slug 
wrenches. 
All frame and distance piece inspection 
and service openings are extra large to 
permit easy access. Bolting for frame-to-
frame extension, frame extension-to-
distance piece, and distance piece-to-
cylinder is external, making tensioning 
easy and accurate.
Outstanding Cylinder  
Design and Selection
Each cylinder is designed with the 
capability of loading the frames 
maximum allowable continuous rod 
load. All cylinder bolting, piston nut,  
and valve differential pressures meet 
this design criteria. This will permit 
future flexibility if process conditions 
change or the compressor is reapplied 
for another application.With experience in virtually every type 
of service, our cylinders provide 
outstanding service and reliability. Our 
engineering expertise will ensure that 
each cylinder built for your application 
will provide maximum performance and 
reliability with minimum maintenance 
cost. Cylinder materials include nodular 
iron, cast steel, fabricated carbon or 
stainless steel, and forged steel. Most 
cylinders are available for either 
lubricated or non-lubricated service.Dimensions
Dimensions provided are typical, and  
are basis API Type B distance pieces.  
For API Types C & D distance pieces, 
add 26.6 inches (68 cm) to the width 
dimension and 13.3 inches (34 cm)  
to the rod removal distance .
ROD  
REMOVAL  
DISTANCE
80in. 
(203 cm)270 in. 
(686 cm)41in. 
(104 cm)L
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Industrial Applications  
15375 Memorial Drive, Suite 700  
Houston, TX 77079  
USA
For more information, please contact  
Phone: +1 832-679-8500
Article No. PGOG-B10025-00-7600  
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a  trademark licensed by Siemens 
AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Industrial Applications  
Freyeslebenstraße 1  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Specifications
Maximum HP 5,000 (3,729 kW)
Standard strokes 8.5 to 12 inch (216 to 305 mm)
Number of throws Up to 6
Cylinder bore range 5 to 38.5 inch (127 to 978 mm) max bore
HHE-VB Typical Length (L) Dimension
Throws  1 2 3 4 5 6
Inches 63 84 105 125 146 166
Centimeters 161 213 266 318 370 423