Versatility and Performance
The PHE is a horizontally opposed, two-
throw, reciprocating compressor designed 
for long-term, process gas service. Designed 
to API-618 specifications. It can handle a 
variety of drivers with either direct or  
V-belt connections and can be fitted  
with either lubricated or non-lubricated 
cylinders ranging from 1.625 to 19 inches  
(41 to 483 mm) in bore diameter.Like all Dresser-Rand business reciprocating 
process compressors, the PHE is engineered 
to our high standards, ensuring long-lasting 
reliability. It offers a versatile alternative to 
larger, more costly compressors, providing 
an economic solution for requirements that 
demand full-time performance in lower 
volume service.The Dresser-Rand PHE 
reciprocating process 
compressor provides an 
economical solution where 
full-time, medium volume 
service is a requirement. Its 
proven performance, balanced 
design, and wide range of 
cylinder selections make the 
PHE an excellent choice for a 
variety of applications.
Dresser-Rand PHE
Reciprocating Process Compressor
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressors

Designed and Built With Precision
With its fine-grain, cast iron frame, the  
PHE is engineered to provide maximum 
support for the running gear and related 
components. The rigid frame design and 
balanced crankshaft minimize vibration  
and provide for low moments and 
minimal foundation requirements. 
Forged from high tensile strength alloy 
steel, the crankshaft is fully stress 
relieved and heat-treated. The bearing 
journals and crankpin are precision 
ground and polished to exacting 
tolerances.
Rugged, precision-machined aluminum 
main and crankpin bearings are 
generously sized for best run-in and 
long-lasting service. All bearings are 
force-lubricated per API-618 
specifications. Connecting rods are 
die-forged steel with rifle-drilled 
passages for positive lubrication of the 
crosshead  
pin and bushing. A shoe-less aluminum 
crosshead is standard and requires no 
adjustment.ROD  
REMOVAL  
DISTANCE
60in. 
(152 cm)180 in. 
(457 cm)30in. 
(76 cm)L
Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL  32826  
USA
 
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.Outstanding Cylinder  
Design and Selection
With experience in a wide variety  
of services, our cylinders provide 
outstanding service and reliability.  
Our engineering expertise ensures  
that each cylinder provides maximum 
performance and reliability with 
minimum maintenance cost. Cylinder 
materials include cast iron, nodular iron, 
cast steel, fabricated carbon or stainless 
steel, and forged steel. Most cylinders 
are available for either lubricated or 
non-lubricated service.Dimensions
For API-type distance pieces add  
18 inches (457 mm) to the width 
dimension and 9 inches (229 mm) to  
the rod removal distance.Specifications
Maximum HP 240 (179kW)
Standard strokes 7 inch (178 mm)
Number of throws 2 
Cylinder bore range 1.625 to 19.0 inches (41 to 483 mm)