 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Gas Field Policy, GFP2 
Februar y, 2021 
 
Gas Field Policy 2:  Compressor Performance Policy 
 
It is the responsibility of the Reseller to quote and sell Siemens Energy compressors only for conditions of 
service that are within the limits of the compressor. It is also the responsibility of the Reseller to design and 
manufacture their package so that the Siemens Energy  compressor is protected from having any of its 
limitations exceeded, at any time, while operating at any normal or upset condition (including relief valve 
discharge pressure). 
 
Orders can be accepted only if no compressor limitati on outlined below is exceeded at any time except for those 
specifically approved by Siemens Energy HSRC Group. 
 
 
COMPRESSOR PERFORMANCE LIMITATIONS 
 
Siemens Energy HSRC Group will review the guarantee poi nt performance and any off-design performance, of 
new Siemens Energy compressors, calculated using the latest version of t he Siemens Energy HSRC 
sizing/performance program, during t he quote stage or at the time of the order, at no additional charge.  
Siemens Energy HSRC Group will advise the Reseller of any limitations exceeded, special construction 
required, or any other problems or concerns. As a part of this review, Siemens Energy HSRC Group will check the internal gas and combined rod loads at the suction and discharge pressures that result in the highest rod 
loads, adding the margins listed below to the discharge pressure to allow for a reasonable margin between the 
compressor load limits and protective devices.  These l oads will be checked and confirmed for all speeds within 
the range of the driver. 
 
Stage Discharge 
Pressure (PSIG ) Margin Above 
Dischar ge Pressure Stage Discharge 
Pressure (PSIG ) Margin Above 
Dischar ge Pressure 
-14.7 to 150 15 PSI 2501 to 3500 8% 
151 to 2500 10% 3501 to 6000 6% 
 
Based on the various criteria contained herein, Siemens Energy HSRC Group must be satisfied that the internal 
gas load does not exceed the Maximum Allowable Cont inuous Gas Load (MACGL) and the combined rod load 
does not exceed the Maximum Allowable Continuou s Combined Rod Load (MACCRL) at any time. 
 Additional criteria and limitations to be considered wh en reviewing compressor performance are as follows: 
 
•  Maximum Allowable Working Pressure (MAWP) s hall not exceed that as defined by the cylinder 
rating. 
 
•  Horsepower/Throw shall not exceed that defined by the frame (except as specifically approved 
by DR HSRC Marketing) 
. 
• Discharge Volumetric Efficiencies shall not fall below 10%. 
 
•  Adiabatic Discharge Temperature (for pressures less than 4000 PSIG) shall not exceed 300°F 
(149°C). For pressures greater than 4000 PSIG, see additional information herein. 
 
• Predicted Actual Discharge Temperatur es shall not exceed 350°F (177°C). 
 
•  Alarm on Discharge Temperature should be set at 25°F higher than predicted actual discharge 
temperature. 
 
•  Rod Reversal shall exceed 40°. 
  
• The ratio of tension load to compression load or vice-versa, shall exceed 20%. 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Gas Field Policy, GFP2 
Februar y, 2021 
 
 
• The recommended maximum allowable RPM of compressors operating at high discharge 
pressure and / or heavy mole weight gases can be found on the following curves. See Figures 1 
& 2. 
 
1. Use the discharge pressure (psig) to  determine the maximum allowable adiabatic 
discharge temperature. 
 
2. Divide the Molecular Weight (MW) by the lowest encountered compressibility (Z) to 
determine MW / Z. 
 3. Find the "Maximum Speed Factor" limitati on from Figure 1 based on both the Pressure 
(top curve) and MW / Z (bottom curve), and use whichever is lower. 
 
4. Find the Maximum Allowable Speed for a frame from Figure 2 using the "Maximum 
Speed Factor". 
 
Example 1 -  For a discharge pressure of 4000 ps ig and MW/Z of 20, the Maximum Speed Factor is 
12 and the maximum allowable adiabatic disc harge temperature is 300 degree F. For a 
6" stroke frame the Maximum Allowable Speed is 1200 RPM. 
 
Example 2 -  For a discharge pressure of 2000 ps ig and a MW/Z of 50, the Maximum Speed Factor 
is 9 and the maximum allowable adiabatic discharge temperature is 300 degree F. For 
a 4" stroke frame the Maximum Allowable Speed is 1350 RPM.  
 
Example 3 -  For a discharge pressure of 6000 ps ig and a MW/Z of 20, the Maximum Speed Factor 
is 9 and the maximum allowable adiabatic discharge temperature is 270 degree F. For a 3.5" stroke frame the Maxi mum Allowable Speed is 1543 RPM. 
 
Any application outside these recommended limits should be approved by Siemens Energy HSRC Group prior 
to quoting. 
 
 
SPECIAL APPLICATION REVIEW 
 
Siemens HSRC Group should also review and approve any applications with any of the following parameters 
before Resellers quote them:  
• Discharge pressures 6000 PSIG or greater. 
 
• Differential pressures greater than 3000 PSIG for a given stage. 
 
• Predicted actual discharge temperatures of 325° F or greater. 
 
• All Non-Lubricated applications. 
 
• Heavy gas applications (ie MW >40). 
 
• Applications involving process gases i.e., hy drogen, oxygen, chlorine, carbon monoxide, etc. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Gas Field Policy, GFP2 
Februar y, 2021 
 
 
Speed Restrictions for HSRC Compressors 
  
 
 
Figure 1 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 

 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Gas Field Policy, GFP2 
Februar y, 2021 
 
 
Figure 2  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Gas Field Policy, GFP2 
Februar y, 2021 
 
CAPACITY CONTROL OPTIONS 
 
Acceptable methods of capacity control are listed below: 
A.  SPEED CONTROL - The preferred method of redu cing compressor  capacity is speed reduction, 
where variable speed drivers are employed. 
 
B. FLOW REDUCTION BY ADDING CLEARANCE - Clearance may be added to the head end of 
cylinders with manual variable-volume clearanc e pockets, or to the head end with pneumatic 
fixed-volume clearance pockets, clearance bottl es, and/or split-valve-yokes. Any time clearance 
is added, care must be taken to insure that t he discharge volumetric efficiency for any cylinder 
end is ten percent (10%) or more, for proper valve operation and so that temperature 
pyramiding does not occur. With special "Pi peline" or "Storage" cylinders, pneumatic fixed 
volume clearance pockets may be also added to crank end. 
 
C.  TOTAL UNLOADING OF CYLINDER ENDS - T he preferred method is suction valve removal. 
Normally the head end is unloaded first to avoid cross-head non-reversal problems. The 
minimum number of degrees of rod reversal (40 degrees) and ratio of minimum combined load 
to maximum combined load (>20 percent) must be met. This must be checked throughout the operating RPM range. 
 
D.  TOTAL CYLINDER END UNLOADING BY PNEUMA TIC UNLOADERS - When it is not possible 
to shut down, vent and purge the compressor and  system to remove the suction valve(s), 
pneumatically-operated "plug" or "port" unloader s may be furnished. (Finger type unloaders are 
no longer recommended.) As above, the head-end of  the cylinder must be unloaded before the 
crank-end, unless otherwise approved by Siemens Energy HSRC Group, after a review of the 
entire operating range of the compressor. When  end unloading is required, please consult 
Siemens Energy HSRC Group for guidance and approval. Normally cylinders should not be 
completely unloaded with pneumatic unloaders except for very brief periods at startup. 
Pneumatic unloaders reduce valve lift areas and de crease cylinder efficiency. They should be 
used only when absolutely required. 
 
E.  SIEMENS ENERGY RECOMMENDS THAT A PULSATION STUDY OF THE PIPING SYSTEM 
BE PERFORMED WHENEVER IT IS ANTICI PATED THAT THE COMPRESSOR WILL BE 
OPERATED WITH ANY CYLINDER END(S)  TOTALLY UNLOADED BY ANY METHOD. 
 
F.  BYPASS - A bypass from final discharge to init ial suction, through a throttling valve, may be 
used either as a sole means of capacity control or, more commonly, in conjunction with other 
methods. Since the cooling effect of ex pansion across a throttling valve is normally not enough 
to remove the heat of compression, capacity c ontrol using a throttling bypass usually requires 
taking gas downstream of the aftercooler, or providing cooling for the bypass, to prevent heat 
buildup through the system. The opposite case of  too much cooling across the valve can also 
be a problem because of a potential for freezing of  the throttling valve due to localized cooling 
due to expansion. Maximum differential across the valve will depend on operating temperature, 
ambient temperature, and gas composition. St eps to prevent freeze-up include multi-step 
throttling and heat tracing of the valve. Please note:  Any cooled bypass, whether for throttling 
or for start-up, should be returned to the inlet si de of the unit upstream of the separator element 
due to the potential of entrained moisture being carried into the inlet gas stream. 
 
 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Gas Field Policy, GFP2 
Februar y, 2021 
 
 
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE POLICY 
 
Siemens Energy will guarantee the design point performance of its new (unused) compressors, when the 
performance has been reviewed and approved by Siemens Energy HSRC Group in accordance with procedures 
outlined above. This review affords Siemens Energy the opportunity to detect possible input errors, and / or the 
exceeding of compressor design limitations which may have been overlooked during the proposal stage. 
 
Siemens Energy guarantees the compressor flow an d horsepower, independently, within a tolerance of 3%, 
subject to the following conditions: 
 
1.  All cylinders must be double-acting. (Singl e-acting cylinders may be used for off-design 
conditions, as outlined above). 
 
2. The compressed gases must be delivered to the suction flange of each cylinder with 99.9%, by 
weight, of all entrained solid and liquid part icles, ten microns and larger, removed. 
 
3.  Performance falls within RPM guidelines spec ified in above. If it falls outside the guidelines, 
guarantee tolerance becomes 6%. 
 
4.  Suction pressure of all stages and/or services  is higher than 10 PSIG. If pressure is less than 10 
PSIG, guarantee tolerance becomes 6%. 
 
Any field performance test must be in accordance with the following: 
 
1.  The test must be performed in accordance with ISO 1217.  
2.  The test must be performed within 60 days of initial start-up. 
 
3. The compressor owner shall ensure that all equipmen t is in "as-new" condition at the time of the 
test. 
 4.  The extrapolation from guarantee point to actual test point, if necessary, will be done by 
Siemens Energy, utilizing Siemens Energy form ulas and computer performance prediction 
programs. Suction and discharge pressures ar e measured at the respective compressor 
cylinder suction and discharge flanges. 
 
5.  A pulsation study of the process pi ping system must have been performed. 
 
6. The compressor driver must have been performan ce tested at the driver manufacturer's factory. 
 
7. The charges for Siemens Energy servicemen, te chnicians and /or engineers, to verify the field 
testing procedures and / or results, if required,  will be in accordance with the applicable service 
rates and conditions in effect at the time of the verification. 
 
        
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. Gas Field Policy, GFP2 
Februar y, 2021 
 
PERFORMANCE CURVE POLICY 
 
1.  Basic Performance Curves can be generated fr om the latest version of the Siemens Energy 
HSRC Sizing/Performance Program. 
 
2. Special Performance Curves required to  be generated by Siemens Energy HSRC Group will be 
priced upon request with full definition of the number and scope required. Pricing will depend 
upon the estimated engineering hours required to generate the Performance Curves. This 
applies to both new and used compressors. 
 
3.  As noted above, Siemens Energy's policy is  to guarantee only one Design Point performance 
on new compressors. Performance is not guar anteed on used compressors. All performance 
will be generated with the latest version of t he Siemens Energy HSRC Sizing/Performance 
Program using the most accurate cylinder data available. 
 