 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 12 
Februar y, 2021 
 
Gas Field Policy 12:  Acid Gas Application 
 
Acid Gas Compressor Applications typically involve the compression of flare gas from oil field amine 
regeneration systems, but these Guidelines can be app lied to any similar gas stream. Normally "Acid Gas" 
contains 50 - 100% H2S and CO2 with minor amounts of other common gas field gases and is saturated with 
water vapor. It is important to have an accurate gas analysis and definition of the full range of operation 
pressures and temperatures. Also see: GFP-16 Car bon Dioxide Service (With H20) and GFP-18 Sour Gas 
Service. 
 
The following guidelines must be met before a Siemens Energy Compressor can be offered for an Acid Gas 
Application.  
1.  All sizing and performance must be reviewed and approved by Siemens Energy HSRC Group prior to 
quoting.  
 
2.  Due to the high specific gravity of Acid Gas,  rotative speeds 90% or less than design RPM are 
preferred. 
 
3.  Gas cooled cylinders are preferred but water-co oled designs are acceptable. If a circulating water 
system is utilized, care must be taken to k eep temperature at least 10 deg. F above inlet gas 
temperatures. 
 
4.  Siemens Energy standard cast iron and nodular  iron cylinder materials (ASTM A278 Class 40 (Gray 
Iron) and ASTM A536 (Ductile Iron) Grade 65-45-12 or ASTM A395 (Ductile Iron) Grade 60-40-18 are 
acceptable up to rated pressures.  Forged steel cylinders must use "s our gas" billets. Non-lubricated 
applications are limited to < 1000 PSIG max. 
 
5.  All pressure packing and wiper packing cases should be of purged design.  
 
6.  Packing rings should be DW173 with CI pr essure breaker and backup rings as necessary. Non-
lubricated cylinders should use PEEK pa cking rings. All piston rings and/or rider rings  should be DW173 
material. 
 
7.  HOS and HOSS compressors may require an extra long distance piece. MOS cylinders require an 
added distance piece. All distance pieces must be  sealed and either purged or vented to a safe area. 
Slingers may be provided which will require extra-long distance pieces. 
 8.  Please refer to GFP-16 for special consi deration with regard to cylinder lubrication.  
 
9.  Compressor valve springs should be Elgiloy. Wh ere steel valve seats and guards are standard, they 
should be changed to stainless steel. A "Dynamic Valve Analysis" is recommended to ensure proper 
valve action on each application. Valve lifts reduced from standard may be required. Valve seat gaskets 
should be soft iron or aluminum. 
 
10. Piston rods should be age hardened 17-4 PH stai nless steel with full length TC3 coating through the 
packing and scraper rings. 
 
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 12 
Februar y, 2021 
 
 
11.  VVCP, FVCP, etc. are acceptabl e methods of capacity regulation. Any vents should be piped to a safe 
place. 
 
12.  Other optional features that should be considered: 
 
a.  Stainless steel LO piping downstream of frame LO filter. 
b.  Sour gas studs and nuts for components in gas stream. c.  Torsional analysis of compressor/motor driver system. 
d.  Compressor flywheel if required by torsional analysis. 
 
13.  In addition to the compressor itself, there are many special requirements for the packaged unit 
components for Acid Gas Compressor Applications. 
 