 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 21 
Februar y, 2021 
 
Gas Field Policy 21:  Torsional Vibration Analysis 
 
TORSIONAL VIBRATION ANALYSIS OF SIEMENS ENERGY HSRC 
COMPRESSORS AND DRIVING MACHINERY  
 
Siemens Energy, upon request, will act as a consultant and perform a torsional vibration analysis of the 
separable drive system. Please refer to the appropri ate price page for the cost of this service. 
 
Siemens Energy’s responsibility is limited to providing a proper engineering torsional analysis. The responsibility 
for engineering of the system components (other than t he compressor), and the supply of these components 
must remain with others. 
 
The analysis will either confirm satisfactory torsional operat ion of the system as submi tted, or it will recommend 
the changes that need to be made to the shafting system fo r satisfactory operation over the conditions specified 
by the customer. 
 The torsional vibration analysis is not intended to chec k or give approval to the transmission shafting in such 
areas as sensitivity to misalignment or any other engi neering aspect connected with the selection, mounting, 
and operation of a separable compressor and its drivi ng machinery. The responsibility for satisfactory 
engineering in these areas is outside Si emens Energy’s scope of responsibility. 
 
The following guidelines are to better define when a torsional analysis is required:  
I. Torsional Analysis  Study Requirement 
 
A. A torsional study is required when a separabl e compressor is driven; by a turbine or 
engine through a gear; or by any motor. 
 
B. A Siemens Energy HSRC compressor directly coupled to an engine driver does not 
require a torsional analysis if the coupling is selected based on the maximum BHP capability of the compressor or engine frame, whichever is less (rather than the 
maximum BHP of the specific compressor app lication). In this case the mass elastic 
properties of the system will be suffi cient to provide torsional stability. 
 
C. If the coupling is selected for less than the maximum BHP capability of both the 
compressor and engine frame and the compressor is directly coupled to an engine, then a torsional study will be required if the operating conditions of the unit fit into one 
or more of the following criteria: 
 
1. Discharge pressure is higher than 1400 psig 
2. Compression ratio is less than 1.8 
3. Single acting cylinder is used for any condition 4. Two-in-one cylinder configuration is used 
5. The ratio of tension and compression frame loads is more than 2.5 or less than 0.4 
6. Large rod load and small BHP applications, where RLR (Rod Load Ratio) - HPR  
 (Horsepower Ratio) is greater than or equal to 35. 
 
 
 

 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 21 
Februar y, 2021 
 
If no torsional analysis is required, the coupling select ion can be based on the maximum BHP of the specific 
compression application. In this case, WR 2 is provided by the engine manufacturer's standard flywheel. 
 
If a torsional analysis is required, the coupling selection and required flywheel WR 2, if any, will be determined 
by Siemens Energy at the time of the analysis.  
The coupling used in any engine-compressor drive system must be torsionally stiff but be able to 
accommodate some axial misalignment. A suitable coupling is Thomas or equivalent.  
II. Data Required By Siemens Energy For The Torsional Analysis 
 
A. The complete operating performance envelope of the compressor including speed ranges and 
unloaded conditions. 
 
B. The complete description of the drive train,  including name of manufacturer(s), model numbers 
and diameters for the gear reducer and engine sha fts, plus the tentative coupling selections. 
 
C. The WR
2 of the motor rotor, and shaft drawings of the driver and gear reducer rotating parts. 
The driver shaft drawing must include the keyway dimensions, including radius, and shaft 
material including ultimate tensile strength. 
 
D. The method of unloading the compressor for st art-up. (If bypass, pipe sizes are required.) 
 
E. All information of the driver and shaft syst em must be supplied by the customer to Siemens 
Energy. A completed "Torsional Analysis Informat ion" form (see GFP-1) must be a part of the 
order. 
 
III. SCOPE OF TORSIONAL ANALYSIS  
A. The scope of Siemens Energy’s analysis  is to select the proper flywheel WR
2 (if required) and 
coupling stiffness, to ensure safe unit operation. Turbine or engine driven unit operation will be 
investigated, over the customer's specified sp eed range, for the presence of any critical speed 
at which the unit operation would be unsafe. 
 
B. The torsional analysis studies the effects of th e compressor torque on the mass-elastic system 
of the entire drive system. It is not intended to stud y vibrations (lateral or torsional), within the 
gears or between the gear reducer and turbine, generated by gear irregul arities, since these 
types of vibration must be investigated by the gear manufacturer, during the design stage. 
 
C. Shutdown of the unit under no-load and vented conditions is permissible in any system, and is 
therefore not a part of this study. 
 
D. For direct drive motor units, the vibratory stress in the moto r shaft will be evaluated to check 
that it is in a safe range according to Siemens Energy standards. 
 IV. MOTOR DRIVER RECOMMENDATIONS: 
 
A. Motor shaft diameter should be as large as possible with the minimum acceptable diameter 
(anywhere on the shaft) determined by the following formula: 
 
B. The ultimate tensile strength of the motor shaft material should be 75,000 PSI minimum. 
 

 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 21 
Februar y, 2021 
C. If the above motor shaft recommendations are not followed, and the analysis determines that 
the submitted shaft is not suitable, additional charges for further study will be applicable. 
 
D. The motor manufacturer must be advised that  the motor will be driving a reciprocating 
compressor which is a severe duty and must be designed suitable for the following vibratory 
torques: 
 
2 throw compressor   +/- 200% Motor nameplate torque 
4 throw compressor   +/- 175% Motor nameplate torque 
6 throw compressor   +/- 150% Motor nameplate torque 
 
This means that for a motor driving a 2 thro w compressor the motor must be suitable for a 
torque variation within each revolution of a mean torque equal to nameplate torque,maximum 
torque equal to positive 300% of nameplate torque and minimum torque equal to negative 100% nameplate torque. 
 
E.  The motor shaft should be designed without a keyw ay. If the shaft is designed with a keyway full 
details of the design must be included with the shaft information supplied to Siemens Energy. 
 
F. The prime mover HP must include allowance fo r the tolerance on compressor BHP (See GFP2). 
Failure to adhere to this practice may prohibit unit operation at full load. It is further 
recommended that prime movers be selected in accordance with ISO-13631: 2002 Section 8. 
 
G. Adherence to these guidelines may reduce the need for a flywheel under certain conditions of 
service, or possible rejection of the motor. 
 
H. For reference, motor suppliers should use the following inertia values when determining 
breakaway torque requirements. This data r epresents the highest inertia that could be 
encountered for the given frame. 
 
Compressor Size & Type Inertia (lb-ft2)   Compressor Size & Type Inertia (lb-ft2)  
5 - MOS 2 60  7 - HOS 2 165 
5 - MOS 4 95  7 - HOS 4 290 
5 - MOS 6 135  7 - HOS 6 370 
6 - MOS 2 85  5 - HOSS 2 210 
6 - MOS 4 135  5 - HOSS 4 315 
6 - MOS 6 185  5 - HOSS 6 400 
7 - MOS 2 115  6 - HOSS 2 270 
7 - MOS 4 185  6 - HOSS 4 400 
7 - MOS 6 250  6 - HOSS 6 505 
5 - HOS 2 115  7 - HOSS 2 345 
5 - HOS 4 175  7 - HOSS 4 505 
5 - HOS 6 230  7 - HOSS 6 635 
6 - HOS 2 135    
6 - HOS 4 215    
6 - HOS 6 285    
 
 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 21 
Februar y, 2021 
 
V.  TORSIONAL ANALYSIS REPORT 
 When Siemens Energy performs a Torsional Vibrat ion Analysis, the standard report will contain the 
following information: 
 
A.  Compressor crank effort 
 
B.  First and second mode critical speeds 
 
C. Resonant speeds for first and second node mode of vibration 
 
D. Mass elastic information 
 
E. Mass elastic curve for first and second node mode of vibration 
 
F. Vibratory stress vs. speed curve 
 
G.  Forced vibration analysis 
 
H. Current pulsation analysis (electric motor drive only) 
 
I. Selection of coupling and flywheel (lb-ft
2, if flywheel is required) 
 
J.  The following disclaimer: 
 
The recommendations and predictions contained herein represent Siemens Energy’s best 
Engineering judgement, based on the information ava ilable to Siemens Energy. In offering these 
recommendations, no warranties or guarantees of any nature are expressed or implied. Any 
decisions made and/or work performed as a result of said recommendations shall be at the entire 
risk of the user. 
 
Siemens Energy shall in no event be liable to the Purchaser, any successors in interest or any 
beneficiary of an order or contract for any conseque ntial, incidental, indirect, special or punitive 
damages arising out of the contract  or any breach thereof, whether or not such loss or damage is 
based on contract, warranty, negligence, i ndemnity, strict liability or otherwise. 
 
The liability of Siemens Energy with respect to an order or contract shall not exceed an amount 
equal to the contract pric e paid by the Purchaser. 
 
 
 