 
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Gas Field Policy, GFP 28 
Februar y, 2020 
 
Gas Field Policy 28:  Quality Control/Qualit y Assurance Procedures 
 
Siemens Energy standard QC/QA procedures includes a vi sual and dimensional inspection and material content 
reviewed for all major components. Inspection procedur es are per Siemens Energy standard manufacturing 
specifications and all records for t he standard procedures listed below ar e maintained at the Siemens Energy 
Painted Post Plant. All frame and running gear with cylinders  normally mounted are mechanically run tested with 
a shop driver and cylinders are hydro-tested. Material test  reports and certificates are kept at the supplier's 
location. 
 
Siemens Energy standard compressor assembly record (QAF-262, form available in the Packager Guidelines) 
included with each compressor Instruction Book consists of: 
• Run test documentation. 
• Frame and running gear assembly clearances. 
• Cylinder and piston measurements. 
• Piston rod runout. 
• Piston ring clearances. 
• FE and OE clearance measurements. 
• Balance information. 
 
Siemens Energy standard cylinder hydrot est record (QAF14) is included with each compressor Instruction Book. 
 The following checks are made to major components: 
 
FRAME AND RUNNING GEAR: (No documentation is provided) 
Frame - A frame leak test is performed. 
All frames are electronically measured on a Coordinate Measuring Machine (or wire aligned) - Chemical and 
physical properties confirmed. 
 
Crankshaft - Chemical and physical properties confir med. Magnetic particle and ultra-sonic tests made. 
 
Connecting Rods - Chemical and physical properties confirmed. 
 Connecting Rod Bolts - Chemical and physical prop erties confirmed. Magnetic particle tests made. 
 
Crossheads - Chemical and physical properties confirmed.  
Crosshead Pins - Chemical and physical properties confirmed. Magnetic particle tests made. 
 Distance Pieces - Chemical and physical properties confirmed. 
 
CYLINDER: (No documentation is provided other than QAF14) 
Cylinder barrel - 1/2 hour hydrot est at 1.5 times MAWP, QAF14. 
Chemical and physical properties confirmed. 
 Piston Rods - Chemical and physical properties  confirmed. Magnetic particle tests made. 
 
Valving - Leak tested. 
 
NOTE: Over 90% of Siemens Energy HSRC orders require only Siemens Energy standard QC/QA Procedures. Any QC/QA 
additions to the above, such as material certifications, additi onal tests, and/or customer witness of any of the tests, etc. ca n 
be provided at an additional cost. Any additional non-standard QC/QA requirement must be confirmed at time of order 
to ensure that adequate time is allotted for extra  QC/QA material information procurement, witness test 
notifications, additional tests performed so that the all required information can be gathered from the pertinent 
sources.  
 
 