      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Compressor Gas Piping 
2020, Rev. #0 
Packager Guidelines 
Section 7: Compressor Gas Piping 
 
7-0.  GENERAL 
 We cannot overemphasize the necessi ty for thoroughly cleaning the inside of all piping before running the 
unit, whether during shop test or after installation in the field. Most package rs use welded carbon steel 
piping, which often contains mill scale and other debris. It is particularly important that the cylinder intake 
piping and start-up bypass lines be thoroughly clean. If me tal shavings, pipe scale, rust, welding beads, 
dirt and all other foreign materials are not carefully and thoroughly removed, the gas flow will loosen this 
material and carry it into the compressor cylinders causing damage and/or excessive wear. Piping should 
be fabricated using good shop practice and inspected and cleaned in accordance with industry standards. 
 Piping should be installed so that there is no stress on attachment points. Once in place, all flange 
fasteners should be removed to confirm that piping fits without being forced into place. It is important that 
all piping be properly braced to avoid hanging excessive weight from cylinder connections. 
 
All flanged cylinder connections are closed for shipmen t. Do not remove these closures until the mating 
piping is ready for assembly. If plugs or covers on any of the compressor connections, or other openings, 
have become loosened or lost in transit, the inside of the component must be thoroughly wiped out to 
remove any dirt. 
 
7-1 Cylinder Flange Inlet and Discharge Studs 
 
Cylinders are supplied with Inlet and Discharge (I&D) st uds and nuts.  Cylinder I&D thread projection is 
dependent on the style of the cylinder  and associated flange size/rating.  Unless specified otherwise by 
the order, the following methods are used to determine the minimum full thread projections. 
 1.  Cast Cylinders with standard ANSI FF Flange and size ratings 
a. I&D thread projections are based on the sum of the industry standard ANSI RF flange 
thickness, the raised face, the supplied nut height, an additional 5/8” (15.875 mm) (to account 
for 2 gaskets at 1/8” (3.175 mm) and 1 orifice plate at 3/8” (9.525 mm), and an additional 1/4” 
(6.4 mm).  This should leave at least one ex posed thread on each I&D stud after the nut is 
torqued. 
2. Forged Steel Cylinders with RTJ (Ring Type Joint) flanges 
a.  I&D thread projections are based on the sum of the industry standard ANSI RTJ flange 
thickness, the corresponding oval style ring height, the supplied nut height, an additional 3/8” 
(9.252 mm) to account for the plate thickness in  a 1-piece ring and orifice plate assembly, and 
an additional 1/4” (6.4 mm).  This should leav e at least one exposed thread on each I&D stud 
after the nut is torqued. 
3. Forged Steel Cylinders with 3.00” (76.2 mm)-6000# (26.69 kN) Special Lens Ring Joint 
a. I&D Special RF Weld Neck Flanges and special lens ring gaskets are supplied.  The thread 
projection is based on the sum of the flange thic kness, 1/4” (6.4 mm) raised face, gasket gap, 
supplied nut height, and an additional 1/4” (6.4 mm).  This should leave at least one exposed 
thread on each I&D stud after the nut is torqued.   If the application requires an orifice based 
on the pulsation analysis, it can be incorporated into the lens ring gasket machining upon 
request. 
4. Application on Specific Cylinders with Special Flanges 
a. Occasionally, non-standard, application specific cylinders a nd/or flanges are designed and 
the I&D thread projection will be comm unicated via Project Engineering. 
b. 26-28” (660.4-711.2 mm) HOS/HOSS Cylinders have special rectangular I&D flanges due to 
the geometry.  The I&D thread projection will be communicated via Project Engineering. 
 
      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Compressor Gas Piping 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
7-2. Cylinder Inlet and Discharge Gasket Recommendations 
 
Siemens Energy offers the following recommendations for gaskets on cast iron cylinders with AISI FF 
Inlet and Discharge flange connections: 
 1. For Class 600 and below, use Flexitalli c® (or equivalent) Style CG gaskets 
2. For Class 900 and above, use Flexita llic® (or equivalent) Style CGI gaskets 
 7-3.  Gas Inlet Piping 
 
The gas must be clean and dry before it enters the comp ressor. Scrubbers or separators of suitable size 
are often used for this purpose. Carefully arrange the suction or intake piping to prevent loops or pockets 
in the line. This will avoid the collection of con densate or distillate, which could be drawn into the 
compressor cylinder and cause serious damage to the unit. Use of suction screens during start-up to filter 
out pipeline debris and dirt is essential. In some applications, more elaborate filtration systems, even 
coalescers, may be necessary.  
On multi-stage installations precautions should be  taken to prevent condensate carry over to the 
subsequent cylinders. Scrubbers or separators shou ld be provided in the suction piping of second and 
subsequent stage cylinders. 
 
7-4.  Discharge Piping 
 
The discharge line between the compressor and receiver or aftercooler should drain away from the 
cylinder, and should be as short as possible, avoiding short bends and fittings.   
A bypass with proper valving should be located between the compressor discharge line and intake line to 
aid in starting and stopping the unit. With such a by pass installed around the cylinder and the valves 
properly manipulated, the bypass opening will reduce  load on the unit and allow starting or stopping the 
unit against minimal load.  If the unit is using a bypass valve for capacity control,  the suction scrubbers or 
separators must be suitable to clean the gas along with removing the lubricator oil that is entrained in the 
gas after the last stage of compression. 
 Relief valves should be installed in the interstage and discharge lines. The setting should be less than or 
equal to the lowest maximum allowable working pressure of any pressure-containing component in the 
system being protected. 
 
Install a drain valve at the lowest point in the discharge line to permit periodic draining of liquids that may 
accumulate.  
7-5.  Temporary Suction Screens 
 
WARNING 
The packager should ensure that the operator 
has installed a temporary start-up screen. This is 
required to catch any dirt, chips, or other foreign material that may have been left in the pipe. The 
pipe must be cleaned first, however, as 
dependence on the temporary line filter alone is 
not sufficient. 
 
If there is any possibility that the gas being compressed contains dust, sand, or other abrasive particles, a 
gas scrubber must be installed permanently and then regularly serviced to keep it clean.  
 
      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Compressor Gas Piping 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
Even though the previous cleaning procedure has b een carefully followed on the compressor piping, a 
temporary screen should be installed in the intake li ne to remove particles 0.009 inch (0.23 mm) (230 
microns) in diameter or larger. Provision must also be made in the piping to check the pressure drop 
across the screen and to permit removal of the scre en for cleaning. If the pressure drop across the screen 
exceeds 5% of the upstream line pressure, remove t he screen, clean it thoroughly, and reinstall it. The 
screen should be removed and left out only when the inlet line is completely free of welding beads, pipe 
scale, and other extraneous matter.  These screens are not intended for permanent installation. We 
recommend that the screen be installed in a horizontal r un of piping to facilitate cleaning out any material 
that collects on the upstream side. 
 
7-6.  Safety Valves 
 
The compressor must be fitted with safety valves to  limit suction pressure, interstage pressure and final 
discharge pressure to a safe maximum. For this application, the term "safety valve" refers to an 
automatic, pressure-relieving device that is actuated by the static pressure upstream of the valve and 
characterized by full opening pop action; these are also  often referred to as "pop safety valves." 
 
 
CAUTION 
Always install a safety valve capable of passing 
the full-load capacity of the compressor cylinder, 
or cylinders, between the cylinder and the first 
line valve. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES is a shutoff valve to be installed in any discharge line 
before the safety valve. 
 
 
When a bypass is furnished, a suction pressure sa fety valve should be installed immediately downstream 
of the bypass valve, on the inlet scrubber, or suction piping.  This valve must be between the line suction 
valve and the unit. 
 For recommended safety settings, see chart below: 
 
Relief Valve Settings 
 
Rated Discharge Gauge Pressure 
(Each Sta ge) Minimum Relief Valve Set 
Pressure Margin Above Rated 
Dischar ge Gau ge Pressure 
PSIG (kg/cm2) PSIG (kg/cm2) 
≤150 (10.5) 15 (1.1) 
>150 to 2500 (10.5 to 175.8 ) 10% 
>2500 to 3500 (175.8 to 246.1 ) 8% 
>3500 to 5000 (246.1 to 351.3 ) 6% 
>5000 (351.5 ) See Footnote A 
a) For rated discharge gauge pressures above 5000 psig (351.5 kg/cm2), 
the relief valve shall be a greed on b y the purchaser and the vendor. 
  
NOTE 
The pressure at which any safety valve is set to 
operate must include the e ffects of static head and 
constant back pressure. Safety valves are selected 
for the required pressure setting and also for 
expected gas characteristics and temperature. 
 
      
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Compressor Gas Piping 
2020, Rev. #0 
 
NOTE 
Rupture discs may be used in place of, or 
supplementary to, safety valves on certain applications. These are special cases where the 
proper action of a safety valve might be questionable 
because of corrosion or deposits caused by the process, where a loss of valuable material by leakage 
should be avoided, or w here contamination of the 
atmosphere by leakage of noxious gases must be 
avoided. 
 
Safety valves must be constructed, located and install ed so that they are readily accessible for inspection 
and repair and so that they cannot be readily rendered  inoperative. They must also meet any Federal and 
state or local regulations. 
 
Discharge lines from safety  valves must be designed to facilitate dr ainage, and such lines must lead to a 
safe place of discharge. The size of the discharge line must be such that any back pressure that may 
exist or develop will not reduce the relieving capacity of the safety valve below that required to properly 
protect the compressor. 
 Further information pertaining to the selection, pressu re settings, installation and piping of safety valve 
and other relief devices will be found in  one of the pressure vessel codes. 
 
7-7. Intercooler, Aftercooler, Scrubber and Frame 
 
7-7.1.  Intercooler 
 
Intercooling will condense moisture or vapor out of the gas. This moisture must be drained from 
the cooler to prevent its passing into the high- pressure cylinder where it would interfere with 
lubrication. It is important that a schedule is established whereby the intercooler is regularly 
drained as determined by the local conditions , or proper scrubbing equipment is installed. 
 
Intercoolers used on gas field separable applicatio ns are generally the fin-fan type (gas to air), 
using a heat exchanger in conjunction with a f an drive and, possibly, louvers controlled by a 
shutterstat. See the applicable manufacturer's liter ature for a description and service procedures. 
 
7-7.2.  Aftercooler  
For some compressor applications, it is desirabl e to have an aftercooler to cool the discharge 
gases and to condense any moisture carried by the gas. This prevents the moisture from condensing later in the lines where it might freez e, cause water hammer, or gives other trouble. 
 
7-7.3.  Scrubber  
Skid-mounted scrubbers are not normally adequat e for proper cleanup of extremely wet or 
contaminated field gas. Siemens Energy recommends all scrubbers have automatic dumps as well as manual dump connections. Siemens Ener gy also recommends all scrubbers have sight 
glasses. Gas having these proper ties almost always will cause maintenance problems with the 
compressor or driver. It is recommended that an of f-skid mounted scrubber be installed if such 
conditions exist. 
 
7-7.4.  Frame 
 
If the compressor is located inside a building and pumping explosive or toxic gas, the frame 
should be vented to the outside of the building. 
 