     
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.   Packager Guidelines, Instrumentation 
2020, Rev, #0 
Packager Guidelines 
Section 8: Instrumentation 
 
8-1.  GENERAL 
 1.  Oil Pressure Shutdown Device. The oil pressure device should be sensing the oil pressure at 
the farthest point away from the oil pump as possible. On the HOSS, HOS and MOS, there is a 
cast-in oil header and the pressure should be ta ken there at the drive end of the frame.  
 
On all frames, the low oil pressure shutdown set point may differ. To find the correct shutdown 
point for each particular frame, refer to the Service Manual. 
 
2. Low Frame Oil Level Regulator. All frames have a connection for a frame oil level controller. 
This device should keep the frame full of oil. The oil level regulator should have a built-in 
shutdown device which will shut the machine down should the frame oil level fall below a safe 
operating range. 
 
The oil level must be adjusted so the center of the oil level in the shutdown device is on the same 
plane as the center of the sight glass in the frame. 
 
3. Lubricator Low Oil Level Regulator. Frames which have suction type lubricator pumps must 
have a low lubricator oil level regulator/shutdown de vice. This device mounts in the lubricator box 
and the external oil feed line connects to it. There is  a built-in float to maintain proper oil level. 
When the float drops, oil will be introduced into t he lubricator box. In t he event the oil supply goes 
dry, the float will drop and shut the machine down. 
 
4.  Vibration Transmitter/Switch. All frames should have a vibration transmitter/switch mounted on 
the frame. This device should be mounted per t he Manufacturer's instructions but in such a 
manner that it would shut down t he machine if any abnormal vibrat ion is sensed. Most of these 
devices are adjustable and should be adjusted per the Manufacturer's instructions.  
Transmitters/switch should be mounted on a flat ma chined surface on the crankshaft centerline.  
A spotface may be required to ensure the transmitter/switch has proper contact to reduce errors 
in readings. 
 
5.  Pressure Sensors. All packages should be equipped with a connection on the suction and 
discharge vessels of each cylinder as close to each cylinder flange as possible for sensing the 
inlet and discharge gas pressure. 
 
6.  Temperature Sensors. All packages should be equipped with a connection on the suction and 
discharge vessels of each cylinder as close to each cylinder flange as possible for sensing the 
inlet and discharge gas temperature. 
 