Stepless Capacity Control
The HVVCP hydraulic variable volume 
clearance pocket manufactured by Siemens 
can be applied to virtually any reciprocating 
gas compressor. Mounted in the outer head, 
it controls capacity of the head end of the 
cylinder by adjusting the clearance volume.The HVVCP provides stepless capacity 
control capabilities that respond rapidly to 
changes in process demand, all while the 
compressor is running under load. This is a 
replacement for the handwheel-operated 
variable volume clearance pocket.With decades of experience  
our innovative HVVCP capacity 
control technology is safer than 
handwheel-operated variable 
volume clearance pockets, and 
allows automatic capacity 
adjustments while the compressor 
is running under load.
Handwheel-operated variable volume clearance 
pocket.Hydraulic-operated variable volume clearance 
pocket.HVVCP
Hydraulic Variable Volume Clearance Pocket
siemens-energy.com/reciprocating-compressors

Published by  
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry  
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826
USA
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by 
Siemens AG. Published by  
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation of Industry  
Siemenspromenade 9  
91058 Erlangen  
GermanySubject to changes and errors. The information given 
in this document only contains general descriptions 
and/or performance features which may not always 
specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested 
performance features are binding only when they are 
expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All 
product designations may be trademarks or product 
names of Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or 
other companies whose use by third parties for their 
own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.HVVCP Application
HVVCPs are applicable for process machines, gas field machines, heavy/light gases, 
lube/non-lube, clean/dirty service, and sour gas applications.
Features Benefits
“Bolt-on” adaptability •  Allows direct replacement for any head mounted handwheel-operated pockets
• Does not require modification to the compressor cylinder
Manual, automatic, or remote 
control•  Provides fully adjustable capacity control on head end within limits set by pocket volume (~100% - 55%)
•  Allows safe and reliable capacity adjustment while the compressor is running under load
• Provides operational cost savings 
• Reduces horsepower consumption and energy costs compared to bypass
Vent and purge capability • Reduces fugitive emissions
No compressor speed limitation • Can be applied to virtually any reciprocating compressor
Self-contained hydraulic system• Requires no external hydraulic reservoir or power supply 
• Utilizes standard hydraulic components
Proven OEM design • Achieves optimum reliability for reduced maintenance and downtimePRESSURE RA TIOCYLINDER FL OW %
1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00100
90
80
70
60
50HVVCP