gascompressionmagazine.com | JULY  2024In the upstate New York village of Painted Post, Siemens Energy operates 
a modern, purpose-built 44-acre plant where reciprocating gas com -
pressors are designed, manufactured, and serviced. It produces impellers and rotors and assembles brownfield footprint centrifugal compressors, too. It is also where workers machine and assemble aftermarket parts and upgrades for a large installed base of compressors and integral gas engines across North America and internationally. The facility is a strate -
gic center to the company’s worldwide compression business.
Once owned by the Dresser-Rand Company that Siemens Energy ac -
quired in 2015, the plant houses a global Engineering Center of Com -
petence for “recips” and a Training Center for customers and partners. With a history dating back to 1898, its facilities and the 450 employees working there are playing a pivotal role in the world’s critical energy transition to a net-zero decarbonized future.   
LINKING INDUSTRY’S PAST AND FUTURE
According to Brian Guske, part of Siemens Energy’s compression busi -
ness strategy team, the Painted Post plant serves as a vital link between 
the past (oil and gas) and future (energy transition): 
“The compressor systems we build and service through Painted Post 
can not only serve the traditional downstream markets but also help ex -
isting power and industrial plants, especially heavy industries, to mitigate the carbon dioxide emissions from their use of fossil fuels or biomass energy sources by converting to hydrogen feedstock.”   
He adds that modernization and upgrades to existing compressor sys -
tems, such as the integral gas engines used in pipelines, will also help industrial customers comply with the Good Neighbor Plan issued by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 
Clean hydrogen production growing.  A significant application for re -
ciprocating compressors is in clean hydrogen production, transport, and utilization, an area where Siemens Energy and the Painted Post plant already have experience. “Today our installed base of reciprocating com -
pressor used on hydrogen services goes back nearly 100 years,” Guske says. To this, he explains: “Traditional hydrogen ap -
plications in refineries and petrochemicals re -
main a core business, but recent years have seen a steady growth in deployments of our recipro -
cating compressors to safely move hydrogen to support the energy transition. In fact, hydrogen applications now comprise the largest percent -
age of our year-over-year orders.
“So, at the same time we’re engineering and 
building new reciprocating compressors for tra -
ditional process and high-speed applications, we’re poised to deliver much of the muscle in -
dustry needs to safely utilize hydrogen as it be -
comes a key enabler for decarbonizing our en -
ergy use today and in years to come.”
Multiple businesses under one roof.  Guske em -
phasizes that the vast Siemens Energy Painted Post plant not only manufactures new process and high-speed reciprocating compressors but also their aftermarket parts. PAINTED POST, A GLOBAL EPICENTER FOR GAS COMPRESSION 
ENGINEERING, MANUFACTURING, AND SERVICING
Opened in 1898, the fully modern -
ized Siemens Energy plant in Paint -
ed Post, New York, now covers 44 acres, housing multiple distinct but interrelated businesses providing new unit and full lifecycle service and support.
SIEMENS ENERGY 
PAINTED POST PLANT BY THE NUMBERS
• 44 acres• 450,000 square feet machining• 94,000 square feet assembly
• 280,000 square feet storage
• 73,000 square feet offices• 450 employees

“These include cylinders, pistons, rods, valves for reciprocating 
compressors and impellers, rotors, and bundles for centrifugal com -
pressors, as well as modernization and upgrade solutions for compres -
sors,” he says. 
Centrifugal compressor impellers and rotors are also manufactured 
at the Painted Post plant. With brownfield electrification and upgrades 
being a critical focus for customers, assembly of footprint compres -
sors is a core service. The plant’s compressor experts serve a global fleet of centrifugal compressors, with a high concentration dedicated to the North American installed base. The engineering staff conducts ongoing modernization and upgrades required to solve reliability and change performance enhancements for legacy centrifugal compressor designs, which helps extend service lifecycles, provide efficiency en -
hancements, and reduce emissions. 
“Our Painted Post plant provides the roof for these distinct but in -
terrelated businesses relating to gas compression.”
COLOR-BLIND COMPRESSORS 
FOR THE ENERGY TRANSITION 
Now based in Houston and a 30-year veteran of the energy industry, 
Guske has watched its evolution accelerate toward decarbonization, especially the growing trend in hydrogen use. “In the past, most of what our equipment compressed was grey hydrogen used in down -
stream applications,” he says. 
But that’s changing fast. “Today, we’re seeing more industries out -
side of those traditional ones putting hydrogen to work as feedstocks for steel mills, cement plants, and others that haven’t used hydrogen before,” he says. “And they need their hydrogen resources no matter where it comes from, whether grey, blue, or green, to be delivered safely and reliably. To achieve that, our Painted Post plant’s manufac -
turing and engineering capabilities are ready and able to build the com -
pressors our customers require.”
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT AND MODERNIZATION, 
KEYS TO SAFETY AND QUALITY
As head of site functions at the Siemens Energy Painted Post plant 
with over 20 years of experience, Dan Meisner has led a steady pace of continuous improvement and modernization initiatives that employ lean manufacturing and integrated Total Quality Management princi -
ples and best practices.  
The gains benefit customers in several ways. In the past year, for 
example, the plant reconfigured one of its high-volume, manufacturing cells to reduce the journey of a part from 2000 to 400 feet. “Making such a radical change in our floor layout without disrupting our overall production schedule or putting our delivery commitments at risk took major planning and carefully timed execution,” Meisner says. 
“For our customers,” he adds, “this improvement in our production 
floor configuration reduced our cycle times and delivery lead times while adding production capacity and flexibility to accommodate rush orders.”  
Safety and quality, top priorities.  Throughout the Painted Post plant, 
safety and quality are always top priorities. Several operations under the plant roof have achieved unblemished, multiyear safety records. Meis -
ner considers safety and quality intertwined with customer satisfaction: “When you have discipline around safety and quality, then timely deliv -
ery, performance, and reliability will follow. It all plays together.”
Meisner also foresees increasing technology digitalization within the 
plant and its compressor products. “Inside the plant, we’re looking at using digitalization for data transparency and ad -
vanced networking and sensors to improve the op -
erating visibility of our fleets of machine tools and work-in-progress,” he says. 
“All of that will help us improve our efficiency, 
troubleshoot issues much faster, and align mainte -
nance with operating conditions. We are also elimi -
nating paper processes as quickly as we can to make procurement easier, faster, and more error-free for our customers and do the same for our internal processes.”
Both Guske and Meisner agree that the ultimate 
goal of all the Siemens Energy Painted Post plant’s continuous improvement and modernization ef-forts is to ensure its compressor products provide the many decades of reliable performance custom -
ers require for their diverse applications. “Even after we transition to a fully decarbonized world years from now, industries of all kinds will need the compression we offer,” Guske says. “And we plan to be here to deliver to their specifications in the future along with superior service and support — just as we do today.”       SIEMENS ENERGY 
PAINTED POST CAPABILITIES
Complete Reciprocating 
Compressors• Process• High SpeedReplacement Parts• Reciprocating Compressor• Turbo Compressor• Compressor Valves• Integral Gas EngineModernization/Upgrades
• Efficiency Improvements
• Emissions Reductions
• ReapplicationEngineeringTestingTrainingTechnical SupportService
Centrifugal Compressors
• Modernization/Upgrade Engineering
•  A ssembly Of Brownfield Footprint Com -
pressors
• Impellers & Rotors• Technical Support• Service
Reprinted from the July 2024 issue of Gas Compression Magazine . Copyright Third Coast Publishing Group. www.gascompressionmagazine.com