siemens-energy.com/generatorsSGen-3000W  
water-cooled  
generator series
for gas and steam power applications  
from 540–1,300 MVA
SGen-3000W© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2The SGen-3000W generator series integrates proven 
design and manufacturing technologies to deliver world-
class performance, reliability and customer value. It 
expands our modular approach to high output levels 
requiring efﬁcient hydrogen cooling. Our modular 
“building block” approach allows Siemens Energy 
 generators to share many features and components 
across the portfolio. With a water-cooled stator, the 
SGen-3000W series provides high operational flexibility 
and outstanding component robustness.Key Benefits
• High output capability
• Operational fl exibility
• High reliability
• Small footprint
• Proven features and 
components
• ISO class zone-A
17
65
43
2
1 Stator: Fleet-proven design of water-cooled stator 
bars with hollow stainless steel conductors
2 Rotor: 10,000 start / stop cycles without rotor removal 
during operational life cycle
3 Generator frame with integral coolers: easy service 
and maintenance of axial coolers
4 Shaft sealing: low maintenance gland seals with 
operational track record 5 Simple ventilation : 1-stage axisymmetric blower with 
radially cooled rotor and stator
6 Smaller footprint:  ~15% lower foundation loads
7 Stator core: low complexity due to common assembly 
across generator products
SGen-3000W© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 3Simple installation:
• Arrives on site with rotor and coolers in-stalled
• Footprint requires minimal space
• Bolt-on static excitation system
• Full line of user-friendly auxiliaries
High operational flexibility:
• Design supports high ramp–up / down rates, frequent 
start / stops with low ther-mal mechanical stresses in 
stator windings
• Closed-loop water cooling less sensitive to water 
 chemistry (no contact to copper)
• Automated auxiliaries with redundanciesEasy maintenance:
• Common components across portfolio im-prove 
 availability of spare parts
• Digitalization packages available to equip and monitor 
generator health
• Easy generator access for any required maintenance  
or service
Our water- / hydrogen-cooled generators provide the flexi -
bility and durability to operate in today’s fluctuating grid 
environment. They can be coupled to other OEM turbines 
and meet environmental requirements as well as your 
individual needs.• Steam plants: flexible integration into steam power 
plant applications or steam tailing applications
• Large simple or combined cycle power plants: suitable 
for peak, intermediate or base load duty, as well as 
cogeneration applications
SGen-3000W generator series:  
simple installation, flexible operation and easy maintenanceSGen-3000W generator series  
for reliable gas and steam power generation
Technical specifications for the SGen-3000W generator series
Frequency Apparent power EfficiencyDesign  
power  factorTerminal 
voltageDesign 
 insulation class Approx. weight
SGen5-3000W 50Hz up to 1,300 MVA Up to 99% 0,8 Up to 27kV Class F Up to 425 t
SGen6-3000W 60Hz up to 1,300 MVA Up to 99% 0,85 Up to 26kV Class F Up to 390 t
Published by and copyright © 2021 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Freyeslebenstrasse 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA
For more information, please visit our website:
www.siemens-energy.com/generators
E-Mail: sales.generator.energy@siemens-energy.com
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and / or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.