Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Munich , September 9, 2021  
Power from shore solution will help Equinor 
reduce offshore platform emissions in the 
North Sea  
•  Siemens Energy will provide equipment for the partial electrification of Troll B and full 
electrification of the Troll C semi -submersibles  
•  Equinor estimates that reducing the power from gas turbines on Troll B and C will reduce 
annual carbon emissions by  approximately 500,000 tonnes  
  
Siemens Energy received a contract from Aker Solutions to supply the complete packages for the 
electrical transmission, distribution, and power management system (PMS) for the Troll West 
electrification project in the North  Sea. The Troll field is operated by Equinor and contains 
considerable oil and gas reserves.   
 
A key objective of the Troll West electrification project is to reduce NOx and CO 2 emissions by 
replacing existing gas turbine -driven generators and compressors  on the Troll B and C facilities with 
power from shore. The plan is to supply electrical power to Equinor’s Troll B and Troll C semi -
submersibles with a 40 -mile (65 -kilometer), 150 -megawatt  subsea transmission cable from the 
Kollsnes natural gas processin g plant on the island of Ona.  
 
Equinor has communicated that they estimate that reducing the power from the gas turbines on the 
Troll B and Troll C facilities will reduce annual carbon emissions by approximately 500,000 tonnes – 
an amount equivalent to about 1% of all emissions from Nor way. In addition, NOx emissions from 
the field will also be reduced by an estimated 1,700 tonnes per year.  
 
Siemens Energy’s scope of supply for the project includes a range of electrical equipment, including 
transformers, reactors, and switchgears. Sieme ns AG is also part of the project consortium and will 
provide static frequency converter systems, large -scale drive trains, and special frequency 
converters, which will allow power to flow bi -directionally for normal and island operation. The PMS Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
provided by Siemens Energy will help maintain a safe balance between power demand and 
consumption, thus ensuring overall grid stability.  
 
“Siemens Energy has been working in the Troll Field for more than two decades and is proud to 
support Norway’s ambitions to red uce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% through 2030 and by 80 -
95% through 2050,” said Jennifer Hooper, Senior Vice President, Industrial Applications Solutions 
for Siemens Energy. “Our ability to provide a large portion of the equipment package for this 
proje ct, coupled with our electrification experience on other offshore platforms operated by 
Equinor, including Martin Linge, Johan Sverdrup, and Goliat , were key factors in the contract award 
and will ultimately reduce project execution risks.”  
 
Installation and commissioning of the electrical equipment for the Troll West project are scheduled 
for 2022 – 2023.         
 
                    
Photo:  Siemens Energy will provide the complete packages for the electrical transmission, 
distribution, and power management system  for the Troll West electrification project in the North  
Sea. 
 
Contact for journalists  
Janet Ofano  
Phone:  +1 803 -389-6753  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
E-mail:  janet.ofano@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture  are available at : https://bit.ly/2Vk1Zpz  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more  sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,   
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy  (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 9 0 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 