As you can see in the picture above, the transformation of the 
transportation industry, from one heavily dependent on fossil fuel 
to an, at least, CO2neutral industry requires all kinds of different 
technologies and solutions, for example eMethanol, which can 
replace ship fuel as one of the worst fossil-based fuels in use today. 
The clients of the big logistic carriers are already demanding a 
change, to a climate friendly alternative to transport their goods. So, 
the precondition for the transformation of the shipping industry was 
never better than before, even though there is still a long way to go. 
The Pulp & Paper industry can play an important role by using their 
biogenic CO2 emissions to support this transformation.HHow can you make more out of How can you make more out of 
                            your biogenic CO                            your biogenic CO 22??
Engelbert Schrapp, Principal Corporate Account Manager, Siemens Energy
Production from water, green electricity, and biogenic waste 
gases 
eMethanol is produced by chemically combining CO2 
and hydrogen. First, hydrogen is produced by an electrolyzer. 
The hydrogen is converted into methanol in a reactor by catalysis 
with carbon dioxide (CO2). To produce ‘green’ (i.e. carbon-
neutral) eMethanol, hydrogen from renewable energy is used, in 
combination with biogenic CO2 . PAPERTECHNOLOGYINTERNATIONAL
INTRODUCTION:  
The answer to this question, which is asked inside the Pulp & Paper Industry more and more frequently, is given by Siemens Energy 
and Liquid Wind, who partnered up to use renewable energy and biomass based (biogenic) CO2 to produce eMethanol for e.g., the shipping 
industry.
Methanol synthesis, based on green hydrogen and CO2 from biomass-based fl  ue gas, raises the prospect of a carbon-neutral 
industrial system. As a fuel for mobility applications and feedstock for the chemical industry, green methanol can decisively drive the 
de-fossilization of the shipping industry and other industry sectors. At the same time, integrating green methanol production into existing 
industrial facilities, such as pulp mills or combined heat and power plants, creates an opportunity to re-use a valuable resource like 
biomass-based CO2.

The potential of this method lies in the fact that the biogenic 
CO2 emitted from e.g. biomass-based boilers or a lime kiln, can be 
obtained via a carbon-capture process. This process avoids the 
emission of further climate-damaging carbon dioxide and uses it as 
a valuable resource and raw material for a new green energy carrier, 
like eMethanol, a sustainable energy. 
In addition, methanol synthesis produces water, oxygen 
(from the electrolyzers), and waste heat, which in turn can be used 
within a closed-loop system in the pulp mills. Oxygen is a valuable 
raw material in the pulp and paper industry for e.g. the bleaching 
process, wastewater treatment, or effi  ciency increase of other 
processes. The oxygen must be either produced on site with a high 
energy expenditure, or must be bought as a raw material from the 
market. Demineralized water from the Pulp & Paper process can be 
used in the electrolysis process, where it serves as feedstock for 
further hydrogen production. 
Last, but not least, modern pulp mills are producing, due to 
highly effi  cient process and state of the art technologies, much more 
electrical energy than needed for the pulp production itself. Today 
the surplus is either used in integrated pulp and paper mills (board 
and paper production at the same location as the pulp mill), or sold 
on the energy market for sometimes more, sometimes less profi  t. 
This happens already e.g. in Uruguay, where a signifi  cant amount of 
modern pulp mills went into operation during the last couple of years 
(and therefore the market price for electrical power is rather low). 
Integration of eMethanol production into the pulp production would 
be even more effi  cient in such cases. The picture below shows an 
example of how it could be integrated:Production on an industrial scale
Against the background of energy transition and national/
international climate targets, a worldwide, concentrated, expansion 
of capacity for renewable energy is not only to be expected, but 
essential. Effi  cient solutions that store renewable energy seasonally 
in large quantities are vital, given the natural fl  uctuations in the 
production of wind and solar power. 
The production of eMethanol on an industrial scale offers 
a promising and economical solution to this challenge. Electrolysis 
from sustainable energy sources produces hydrogen, which is 
converted into methanol by reaction with carbon dioxide. Like 
gasoline or diesel, the liquid eMethanol is comparatively easy to 
store, transport and use.
The fi  rst pilot plants for this purpose, particularly in Iceland, 
have now been in operation for several years.
Proven “Power to X” portfolio from Siemens Energy
The technologies required for all process steps in the 
industrial production of eMethanol are already available and well-
proven. In recent years, Siemens Energy has been developing 
customized “Power to X” solutions for the decarbonization of various 
industries, and established partnerships with the world’s leading 
suppliers of e-fuel synthesis technologies. From wind power, green 
hydrogen, and e-fuels production, to carbon-free re-electrifi  cation, 
Siemens Energy benefi  ts from many years of experience in the oil 
and gas industry, so that most of the relevant plant components 
have been available, are proven in use and been established for 
years. With the “Proton Exchange Membrane” (PEM) electrolysis, 
Siemens Energy is a leading supplier for the most promising 
Electrolyzer technology for sustainable hydrogen production. This 
PEM-technology, in comparison to the classical Alkaline Technology, 
matches perfectly to cope with the highly volatile renewable energy 
market, and just needs power and water, and no additional toxic 
chemicals, for the production of green hydrogen.PAPERTECHNOLOGYINTERNATIONAL

PAPER TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL
Siemens Energy has been a leading supplier for 
Electrification, Automation, and Digitalization solutions in the pulp 
and paper industry for decades, is well connected in the landscape 
of the global pulp and paper community, and therefore is a perfect 
match for the add on of Power2X or eFuel projects, such as Liquid 
Wind, into existing or new pulp and paper mills. Beyond this, 
Siemens Energy is also implementing for the Liquid Wind project 
the same Automation System, PCS7, the same drives, motors, 
transformers, switchgears, and other electrification equipment as 
has been used for years in countless pulp and paper mills around 
the world. Also, COMOS will play a significant role as the backbone 
of the entire Liquid Wind approach: implementing the Data Digital 
Twin, SIMIT, and other simulation tools, will help to generate the 
Process Digital Twin for the entire production chain of eMethanol. In 
addition, a Digitalization toolbox will prepare the production facilities 
for Autonomous Operations and Predictive/Remote maintenance 
services.
Global roll-out of a model project
Liquid Wind, a Swedish power-to-fuel development 
company, is currently planning the worldwide first large-scale 
industrial roll-out of eMethanol production facilities. The first plants 
will be built in Sweden, with additional plans to roll out the so-called 
Flagship facilities in Europe and on a global scale, in partnership 
with pulp and paper mills and CHP plants. The eMethanol produced 
can be used to power all kinds of ships, and replace marine fuel oil. 
Ten Flagships, with an annual production volume of a 
minimum 50,000 metric tons of eMethanol each are to be built 
by 2030. The company is planning to scale rapidly, targeting the 
development and implementation of 500 plants worldwide by 2050. 
The production facilities will use Siemens Energy’s Electrolyzer of 
the newest generation, Silyzer 300, which is highly adaptive and 
matching the requirements of the specific value chains.
This scaling is made possible thanks to a standardized and 
modular facility model, based on the latest digitalization technology, 
for the efficient replication of eMethanol facilities. The entire planning 
and integration are carried out with the help of licensing, a so-called 
Digital Twin, for data (COMOS), process and operations, which is 
also provided by the Siemens Ecosystem. This means that all plants 
can be planned, tested, and efficiently operated via Digital Twin 
implementations. This offers great development opportunities for 
scaling up in countries that are rich in renewable energy and, with 
the synthesis from hydrogen and CO2, meet the growing demand for 
green methanol.Closed production cycles
Liquid Wind’s first eMethanol plant, FlagshipONE, will be co-located 
with a combined heat and power plant (CHP) from Övik Energy 
in Örnköldsvik, north-east Sweden, making use of biogenic CO2, 
sustainable energy, and other utilities. The biomass-based flue 
gases will form the green raw material for a carbon neutral fuel. In 
the process, the CO2 for the methanol synthesis is captured from 
the plant’s biomass-based flue gas. The purified water is used 
for the hydrogen electrolysis, as is the water produced as a by-
product during the methanol synthesis. The waste heat is used to 
concentrate the CO2. 
The pulp and paper industry is an ideal industry partner for the 
production of eMethanol for several reasons:
1. The oxygen produced can be returned to the pulp mill 
or CHP.
2. Mills can use the on-site eMethanol to replace diesel 
for trucks, fork lifters or caterpillars in their distribution 
chain to further reduce CO2 emissions.
Each Liquid Wind facility will produce 50,000 tons of 
eMethanol per year. To achieve this, 75 MW of renewable energy 
from wind power will be used to produce green hydrogen, and 
70,000 tons of industrial CO2 will be upcycled. 
Four Siemens Silyzer 300 units will be used as Electrolyzers 
for producing hydrogen. Siemens Energy is also responsible for the 
plant-wide electrification, instrumentation & automation, including 
engineering and services, as well as digitalization with Digital Twin 
implementation, Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), analytics, and AI 
applications. Production from FlagshipONE in Sweden is scheduled 
to start at the beginning of 2024. 

PAPER TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL
eMethanol, a green alternative for marine propulsion and 
industry
eMethanol is a sustainable fuel option, especially for 
ship propulsion systems, that are predominantly operated using 
so-called ‘marine diesel’ (heavy fuel oil). Due to marine diesel’s 
poor ecological assessment, its use cannot be reconciled with 
international climate targets. 
Of the approximately 98 million metric tons of methanol 
produced worldwide each year, around 85% is used as a feedstock 
in the chemical industry, for synthesis, or as a solvent. Several 
countries, for example Taiwan, import large quantities of methanol 
for their chemical industry. At the same time, it is those countries 
with few raw materials that are investing heavily in renewable 
energy, such as photovoltaics and wind power. The synthesis of 
methanol, based on hydrogen and CO2, offers these markets the 
opportunity to substitute the demand for their own industry.
Fair competition needs fair conditions
The integration of eMethanol production can already be 
made economically profitable in many industrial areas. Furthermore, 
all technologies are available at the required scale and have 
been proven over many years, as the Siemens Energy portfolio 
proves, from technical applications to the complete digital toolset. 
Research and development costs are therefore limited to optimizing 
existing technologies, achieving an even higher level of integrated 
operations, and maximizing the use of Digitalization tools. 
The widespread success of eMethanol as a raw material and 
energy carrier essentially depends on whether it can be offered at 
competitive market conditions. Above all, this requires appropriate 
legal and fiscal framework conditions for carbon-neutral methanol. 
To date, synthetic fuels have generally been more expensive for the 
consumer than fossil or oil-based energy sources and fuels. Fossil fuels are subsidized to a large extent, and 
have historically been offered tax breaks. For example, the 
environmentally harmful marine diesel is not subject to CO2 tax and 
can be used tax-free, in accordance with Section 27 of the German 
Energy Tax Act (EnergieStG).tax breaks. 
To make lower-carbon and zero-carbon alternatives 
attractive, and help the corresponding technologies achieve a 
breakthrough, economic incentives and tax relief are needed, as the 
example of successful wind power subsidies shows.
Solutions to climate policy challenges
In the short and medium term, the production of eMethanol 
from renewable energy offers the opportunity to establish new, 
largely carbon-neutral economic cycles. 
In the long term, the conversion of renewable energy 
reserves into eMethanol, hand in hand with other application-
specific technologies, such as hydrogen, and an expansion of 
power grids, raises the prospect of an energy economy that is no 
longer dependent on fossil fuels. Not only will this avoid greenhouse 
gas emissions, it will in fact also absorb CO2 as a raw material for 
applications in industry, mobility, and energy.
A methanol economy, based on renewable energies, 
therefore creates the solutions for many environmental challenges 
which, although already addressed in some way today, require a 
better conceived and far more integrated approach. 
Figure 1: FlagshipONE Visualisation, Örnsköldsvik, Sweden