Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page 1 of 2 
 
 
Ontario, Canada , July 12,  2022  
Siemens Energy to power the world ’s lowest -
emission LNG facility  
• Woodfibre LNG will be powered by clean, renewable hydroelectric power , reducing its 
greenhouse gas emissions by more than 80%  
• Siemens Energy will provide motors, variable speed drives, and the main refrigerant compressors 
for the Woodfibre LNG project  
• Once operational, Woodfibre LNG will provide over 100 jobs for the lifetime of the project  
 
Siemens Energy announced today tha t it was selected as the single solution supplier for the all -
electric Woodfibre LNG project  near Squamish, in British Columbia , Canada . The environmentally  
friendly LNG facility will be located at the site of a former pulp and paper operation. It will be sized 
for 2.1 million tonnes per annum and utilize clean, renewable hydroelectricity, reducing its 
greenhouse gas emissions by more than 80%.  
 
Siemens Energy’s scope includes all equipment associated with  the main refrigeration trains , 
including compressors, synchronous motors, variable speed drives, converter transformers, 
harmonic filters , and numerous powerhouses. The main refrigeration compressor trains are one of 
the components of the liquefaction process that produces the LNG that  will eventually be stored in 
tanks and then transported to LNG tankers for shipping abroad.  
 
“LNG will play an essential role in a more sustainable future  as we continue looking at ways to  
decarbonize the natural gas chain ,” said Thorbjörn Fors, Executive Vice President, Industrial 
Applications at Siemens Energy. ” This project is important , because it will help support the journey 
toward global decarbonization with exports to Asian economie s currently driven by coal .” 
 
“Woodfibre LNG is working to incorporate a sustainable approach into as many aspects of our 
project’s engineering and design as possible,” said company president Christine Kennedy. “This 
includes using safe, efficient equipmen t for the LNG refrigeration process  – like that which Siemens 
Energy will supply  – to build what will become the world’s lowest -emission LNG export facility.”  Press release  

Press release  
Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page 2 of 2 
 
 
The project is expected to  reach substantial completion in 2027 and begin  commercial operation by  
September of that year.   
 
 
Above:  Woodfibre LNG will be powered by clean, renewable hydroelectric power.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Janet Ofano  
Phone:  +1 (803) 389-6753  
E-mail:   janet.ofano@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release and a press picture is available at https://bit.ly/3P8ZPiW  
For more information about our integrated LNG solutions , visit https://bit.ly/3RguOLN  
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy  
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value cha in – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worl dwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs 
around 91,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of €28.5  billion in fiscal year 2021. 
www.siemens -energ y.com .  
