60 DECEMBER 2017 / WorldOil.com
Data-driven remote condition monitoring  
optimizes offshore maintenance, reduces costsOFFSHORE TECHNOLOGYA case study shows how 
advanced condition-monitoring technologies—plus analytical expertise—can optimize maintenance  
of mission-critical equipment in offshore environments, while lowering costs and improving safety.
ŝŝ MORTEN ILEBY, Aker BP ;  
and EDMUND KNUTSEN, Siemens
As the world’s oil and gas industry 
strives to expand margins by reducing 
production costs wherever possible, ad -
vanced capabilities enabled by the inte-gration and digitalization of upstream operations can help in substantial ways. One prime example is remote condition monitoring (CM) of well-site equipment, 
especially offshore. CM is the data-driven process of 
tracking performance parameters of 
equipment. The data are then used to identify any changes from baseline per -
formance benchmarks that could indi -
cate a developing fault in that equipment 
or their components, such as motors, 
drives, pumps, gearboxes, rotating shafts and tables.  
While used in other industries for 
years, CM is an emerging trend in oil and gas E&P , as a means to reduce opex costs, increase regularity, and improve opera -
tional safety. In fact, those were the objec -
tives behind the 2013 decision by Det 
norske oljeselskap, now Aker BP (the re-
sult of a 2016 merger with BP Norge), to deploy remote CM on the offshore plat -
form that it built to develop Ivar Aasen field in the North Sea, Fig. 1. 
With reserves estimated at some 200 
MMboe, the platform is situated in the North Sea’s far northern reaches, about 180 km off the Norwegian coast and 725 km south of the Arctic Circle. Wa -
ter depths average 110 m. First oil com-menced on Christmas Eve, Dec. 24, 2016. 
The acceleration of operational stabil -
ity was helped in great part by the digital infrastructure—which includes a stimu-lated process simulator being used to train 
personnel—and finding good control 
loop parameters before start-up. Related to that was extensive onshore factory-ac -
ceptance testing of all third-party systems prior to final assembly. T oday, the plat -
form produces at a maximum capacity of 60,000 bopd from seven wells.  
Given the company’s publicly stated 
goal of driving production costs to under $7/bbl, digitalization of its operations is 
strategically important to achieving that 
target, despite the extreme challenges and costs of working in treacherous North Sea weather conditions. 
REMOTE CONDITION 
MONITORING
Condition-based maintenance (CBM) 
supported by remote CM is especially suit -ed for distant offshore applications, par -
ticularly when operating in the North Sea. 
For starters, the North Sea’s cold, harsh 
marine environment is among the world’s 
most demanding. The platform’s equip -
ment is exposed constantly to penetrat -
ing, corrosive sea air. That’s in addition to 
the typical, yet severe, mechanical stresses 
that all platform equipment endures dur -
ing day-to-day E&P operations, which 
makes maintenance all the more critical to uptime and productivity.
With digitalization, planners and en-
gineers chose to take a state-of-the-art maintenance approach using, as guid -
ing principles, both the concepts and implementation of CM and CBM in the design, engineering, construction and, 
later, the operational scheme of the Ivar 
Aasen platform. 
For the operator, CM’s logic is as com-
pelling as its economics. Why perform maintenance according to a strict calen-
dar schedule, when CM can show the ac -
tual state of the monitored equipment? If 
equipment is operating well and displays no indication that maintenance is needed, why not extend the maintenance interval and reduce associated costs? 
On the other hand, if CM identifies 
potential trouble before the scheduled maintenance interval, the operator can perform preventive maintenance on the indicated equipment to help avoid the 
higher costs and consequences of un-
planned downtime or production slow -
downs. With a CBM model in place, the company aims to conduct maintenance in well-planned, timelier ways, helping to 
minimize costly helicopter transports and 
equipment downtime. 
SUPPORT FOR LOW-MANNING 
PLATFORM OPERATIONS
CBM is a contributor to the low-man-
ning platform objective, enabling the op -
erator to reduce manpower offshore and 
optimize equipment maintenance sched -
ules. In addition, CBM helps to optimize 
the platform’s inventories of spare parts, Fig. 1. Aker BP deployed remote CM on 
its offshore platform, built to develop Ivar 
Aasen field in the Norwegian North Sea, 
in an effort to reduce opex costs, increase regularity and improve operations safety.
Originally appeared in  World Oil® DECEMBER 2017 issue, pgs 60-62 . Posted with permission.
World Oil® / DECEMBER 2017  61      
OFFSHORE TECHNOLOGYmaintaining inventory levels with greater 
precision and less “just-in-case” stocks. This frees capital that might otherwise be 
tied up by the latter approach. 
Notably, the operator’s decision to 
completely rethink maintenance early in 
the design stage shows how its engineers chose to combine advancements from 
many diverse technologies—in this case, 
sensors and fiber optics, plus data collec -
tion, storage and analytics, among many others—to achieve much more than just doing faster and cheaper maintenance. Instead, they were able to apply the con-
cepts of CM and CBM to the platform’s 
offshore requirements to do maintenance better and smarter, by not waiting for fail -
ures to occur and fix but, instead, to pre-dict and prevent them from happening in 
the first place.
For assistance with this digitalization 
project, which would span the platform’s 
entire operational life, Siemens was en-gaged. The actual scope of work was 
broader than CM-enabled CBM, as the 
operator wanted to sole-source a fully integrated package of electrical, instru-mentation, control and telecom (EICT) functionality—essentially the platform’s 
nervous system. Unifying the EICT 
helped to significantly minimize project risk by reducing the number of vendors involved, along with their different EICT interfaces. It also simplified and stream-lined procurement, integration, testing 
and support.
As the prime EICT contractor, Sie-
mens worked closely with the engineer -
ing team in the design, engineering, 
fabrication, integration, testing, com-
missioning and support of this EICT so -
lution, while assuming responsibility for 
the integration of hardware and software packages from 20 third-party suppliers. Project management, administration, 
procurement and technical lead engi -
neers for the EICT project execution 
were stationed in Oslo, Norway, where Siemens has staffed a dedicated team of offshore oil and gas experts. 
The EICT package design linked the 
platform’s plant and process designs to the commissioning phase. By integrating the engineering of the design and layout at the basic design stage, Siemens made it easier to identify critical issues and their 
solutions much earlier in the project. This 
virtual approach helped optimize design and engineering early on, which preempt -
ed later changes. This saved time and improved quality in subsequent project phases. It also created additional savings through better interface coordination and 
standardization. 
In addition, all platform components, 
modules and systems were standard -
ized as much as possible, to reduce spare 
parts requirements and maintenance 
expenses over the platform’s 20-year life-
cycle. With multiple vendors, interfaces would have proliferated and complicated an already challenging task of training maintenance staff. Therefore, instead of having to learn several different human-
machine interface (HMI) and program-
ming systems, the maintenance staff only had to learn one.
GLOBAL COLLABORATION
Project work spanned the globe. The 
Oslo-based EICT engineering team worked on the basic EICT design, while 
Siemens Center of Competence in Mum-
bai, India, completed detailed engineering for the HMI systems. Field instrumenta -
tion was developed by Siemens’ team in Karlsruhe, Germany. Siemens also was 
responsible for the standardization and 
delivery of all low-voltage motors and switchgear to a yard in Singapore, where the platform’s entire 15,000-ton topside was fabricated.
The platform’s fully integrated EICT 
package was built on the Siemens SIMAT -
IC PCS 7 process control system with proven oil and gas software code libraries, field instruments, systems for electrical distribution, and telecommunications. 
The software stack includes the OSI -
soft PI Asset Framework application for real-time operational data gathering from hundreds of CM sensing points connected to rotating equipment, valves, 
process monitors, electrical equipment, 
and instrumentation and automation controls, Fig. 2. 
Two identical control rooms were 
built, one offshore on the platform, and 
the other onshore in T rondheim, Norway, 
1,000 km away from the platform. The twin control rooms are linked via redun-dant, highly secure connections over the T ampnet subsea fiber-optic network that serves the North Sea’s E&P operators. 
Cybersecurity was a paramount concern, 
addressed by a layered, defense-in-depth approach according to ISA/IEC 62443 and ISO 27001 and 27002, the world’s foremost data security standards. 
Now in full operation, the platform’s equipment is co-monitored from the 
T rondheim onshore organization, which 
can use their normal office facilities where the dashboard solutions bring detailed in-formation to the different stakeholders, providing CBM oversight and engineer -
ing support. Also, vendors can get access to this solution and support maintenance work. Aboard the platform, the dual con-trol room facilitates visibility, communi -
cations and interactions between onboard technicians, who do more hands-on work, 
and their onshore counterparts, who sup -
port them in managing the CM. The jobs 
of the onshore technicians are much the same as if they were aboard the platform, except they aren’t subject to its weather 
and relative privations. 
The platform’s CM data analytics 
use the identical real-time and histori -
cal CM data. Data from hundreds of CM 
telemetric signals are analyzed using 
Siemens analytic software. Performance 
metrics, both individual signals and combinations of signals, are compared to baselines for indications of anomalous behavior, such as vibration patterns that 
deviate from what they should be. More-
over, with a huge installed base of auto -
mation systems and electrical compo -
nents deployed in industries worldwide, 
Fig. 2. Siemens’ software stack includes the 
OSIsoft PI Asset Framework application for 
real-time operational data gathering from 
hundreds of CM sensing points connected to rotating equipment, valves, process 
monitors, electrical equipment, and 
instrumentation and automation controls. A complete list of monitored functions is 
listed here.
Conditions monitored remotely at the Aker BP Ivar Aasen platform
Rotating equipment
   Vibration/temperature monitoring
   Performance monitoring (pumps/compressors)
Valves
   Valve monitoring (movement/operations)
   PSV monitoring
   Valve leakages
   Partial stroke
   Shutdown analysis
   Control valve monitoring
Process
   Control loop monitoring
   Heat exchanger
Electrical equipment
   UPS: Performance/batteries
   Transformers: Winding temp/hot spot/load
   VSD: Temperatures/fans/max-min current
   HV Switchgear: Gas condition/unbalance/temperatures/currents
   LV Switchgear: Earth fault/phase loss/current unbalance/wear
   HV/LV Breaker: Unbalance/breaking current/number of operations
Instrument and automation
   Instrument diagnosis (Hart)
   Transmitter monitoring
   ICSS diagnosis: loops, modules, power supplies, servers
   Computer monitoring
   Network monitoring: switches/cables
   Cabinet monitoring: temperatures/MCBs/power supplies/fans
   Telecom systems monitoring
   Computers 
62 DECEMBER 2017 / WorldOil.com
 OFFSHORE TECHNOLOGYSiemens has a vast library of established 
baseline operating signatures for its port -
folio of products.
TIME-STAMPING  
PERFORMANCE EVENTS
Time stamping of performance-re-
lated events is a unique Siemens tech-
nology deployed inside the CM-based 
CBM model. Conventional CM meth-
ods sample time intervals (e.g., every third second). The problem is, time sam-pling might catch one anomaly but miss another, especially if multiple events are 
recorded in one sample. With two or 
more events occurring in a single sample, it’s impossible to know their sequence and, therefore, determine any cause  
and effect. 
With time stamps, however, the se-
quence of an event series can be seen clearly, making it easier to identify and distinguish correlation and causation. This can accelerate troubleshooting by making data analysis more precise, reliable and in-
sightful. For example, the CM algorithms 
for On/Off valves monitor the trends in traveling time and can identify early on if a valve starts moving more slowly.
The platform’s CBM system also helps 
the company comply with the Norwegian government’s regulations regarding the maintenance of the platform’s oil and gas metering system. Annual calibration is re-quired, because this equipment is used in 
part to determine the revenue split among 
the platform’s partners, as well as taxes owed. With the system consisting of 280 instruments, manual calibration—as done in the past—would consume approximate-ly 40% of an engineer’s time each year. Instead, with CM in place, the com-
pany is working with regulators to show them how much it improves the pre-cision, accuracy and efficiency of the 
metering system’s instrumentation. As 
a result, the company aims to perform the manual calibration once every three years, instead of annually, which allows its engineers to focus on other value-
added tasks.
EXPANDING MARGINS,  
DESPITE FLAT MARKET PRICES
Ultimately, Aker BP envisions normal -
ly unmanned, fully automated, onshore-
monitored platforms to drive production 
costs even lower in a not-too-distant fu-
ture. T o this end, the company and Sie-mens will continue working together to improve platform performance, while also refining their CM-based CBM model 
for use in other E&P platform projects. 
The Ivar Aasen platform’s high-fidelity process twin that was created during the design and engineering phases will stay viable for the platform’s entire lifecycle, and will enable engineers to test ideas for 
enhancements before committing them 
to deployment. 
This digital lifecycle approach to off -
shore production assets is now called T opsides 4.0, and allows Siemens to 
help E&P operators reduce project cycle 
times, minimize unplanned downtime, and reduce offshore manning for opera -
tions and asset monitoring. Underpinned by highly secure communications and 
centered around core modules of com-
pression, power generation, power dis -
tribution and automation, T opsides 4.0 offers a model that was proven in the Ivar Aasen platform’s deployment and opera -
tion. This model can transform offshore production, with significant upside po -
tential for profit margins, even if prices re-main “lower for longer,” as many industry analysts anticipate.
Concurring with digitalization’s po -
tential for E&P operators is DNV GL, the world’s largest technical consultancy to onshore and offshore energy compa -
nies. It estimates that the full digitaliza -
tion of their operations can enable these companies to become at least 20% more efficient than they are today. This payoff will derive from digitalization, provid -
ing greater and sometimes unexpected 
insights that can predict failures ahead 
of time, so that operators can time inter -
ventions more efficiently. 
MORTEN ILEBY leads 
maintenance and support for 
automation and telecom systems on the Ivar Aasen platform. After joining Aker BP in 2012, he led the development within automation and 
condition monitoring for the Ivar Aasen project. Previously, Mr. Ileby held similar positions at Sevan Marine, Siemens and Eni. Throughout his 30-year career in the oil and gas industry, Mr. Ileby has worked on offshore projects in the UK, Brazil, South Korea and Norway.
EDMUND HENRY KNUTSEN is 
product lifecycle manager for digitalization at Siemens Oil & Gas Offshore. He has an MS degree in power electrics from the Technical University of Trondheim (NTNU). With more 
than 30 years of industry experience, Mr. Knutsen has extensive knowledge related to the design and engineering of automation solutions. He lead digitalization of the Ivar Aasen Project from its early design stages through development and implementation. Additionally, he is a member of the IEC Work Group for Condition Monitoring.
Article copyright © 2017 by Gulf Publishing Company. All rights reserved. Printed in the US.
Not to be distributed in electronic or printed form, or posted on a website, without express written permission of copyright holder.