“The challenges that onshore and offshore 
industries face are very similar, however, 
there are some notable differences.” 
CHRISTIAN SCHÖCK, CEO of Siemens BrazilTAKE FIVE
CHRISTIAN SCHÖCK
equipment solutions and the application of 
digital technologies will play an essential 
role in addressing this challenge. Together, 
they are enabling operators to push the 
limits of what is possible when it comes to 
increasing efficiency, reducing emissions 
and, ultimately, improving sustainability. 
HOW DOES THE OFFSHORE MARKET COMPARE TO 
ITS COUNTERPARTS ON LAND?  
The challenges that onshore and offshore 
industries face are very similar, however, 
there are some notable differences. In 
onshore operations, there are often more 
opportunities to leverage hybrid power 
solutions that incorporate renewables. 
Operators also have easier access to 
alternative fuels, such as hydrogen. The 
development of hydrogen-powered gas 
turbines is an area that Siemens has been 
pioneering. 
Digitalization can be applied similarly to 
onshore and offshore facilities. However, in 
the offshore environment, there is typically 
more potential for OPEX and safety gains. 
Tools such as digital twins and advanced 
Natural gas, oil vital 
to future energy mix.  
By DJ Slaterlocalization developments, Schöck managed 
local content and managed Siemens’ 
infrastructure in several countries, such as 
Brazil, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and the United 
Arab Emirates and led the development of 
local content worldwide. He also served as 
a project director in Brazil, the United States 
and other locations on several large-scale 
projects. 
COMPRESSORTECH2 discussed the current 
state of the offshore market with Schöck and 
how it will continue to evolve as the energy 
mix continues to diversify. 
WHAT IS THE ATMOSPHERE OF THE OFFSHORE 
MARKET TODAY?
The offshore market is undergoing a 
dramatic transformation. We see significant 
investments to exploit abundant oil and gas 
reserves, particularly in places like the North 
Sea and offshore Brazil. These investments 
present tremendous opportunities for 
operators, their suppliers and regional 
economies, but they also come with 
challenges. 
One of the critical dilemmas the industry 
faces is how it can reduce its environmental 
footprint through decarbonization. Increased 
electrification, high-efficiency rotating Changes tend to be abundant in 
most industries as the calendar 
transitions to the next decade. The 
offshore sector of the oil and gas industry 
is not immune to these changes. Digital 
technologies and decarbonization have, 
and continue to, play a prominent role in the 
sector’s evolution, one that Christian Schöck, 
CEO of Siemens Brazil, has had a front seat to 
for several years. 
Schöck’s career 
in the oil and 
gas industry 
dates back to 
2001, when 
he served 
as the global 
localization 
director and pre-
salt replicantes 
project director 
with Dresser-Rand 
Brazil. During Offshore industry 
poised for “dramatic 
transformation”
Siemens 
Topsides 4.0 
offers a digital 
lifecycle solution 
to offshore 
production 
facilities
52 | COMPRESSORTECH2 | MAY 2020
WHAT PROJECT ARE YOU MOST PROUD OF? WHY? 
There are several exciting projects I have 
been fortunate enough to be involved with, 
both onshore and offshore. Siemens Brazil, 
for example, recently built a combined cycle 
power generation plant in the Amazon region, 
replacing diesel production with gas-powered 
turbines. The plant provides the third-largest 
city in the Amazon state with a cleaner, more 
reliable source of energy. 
In the offshore arena, one challenging 
project that I am especially proud of included 
supplying 80 compression trains for eight 
Petrobras FPSOs with high local content 
requirements. In 2011, when the project was 
initiated, Dresser-Rand (part of Siemens) 
had no facility in Brazil to manufacture the 
equipment, nor the staff or certified suppliers 
to execute the project. Our team rose to the 
challenge by building a more than US$30 
million facility in Brazil.
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING IN THE 
FUTURE FROM THE OFFSHORE MARKET?
I think it will be fascinating to see the next 
generation of FPSOs being deployed in the 
coming years. Brazil is observing several new 
assets entering operation with new players 
and new technologies. This is also the case 
globally. Many exciting trends are emerging, 
including the use of combined cycle power 
solutions, integrated field exploration, subsea 
power grids and compression equipment, 
unmanned vessels, drone utilization, virtual 
reality, hydrogen applications and more. Let’s 
observe how the market exits the health 
crisis currently underway and other themes, 
but hopefully, it reestablishes the projections 
from some weeks ago. CT2Siemens is continually working on 
improving these technologies and developing 
new concepts to enhance topside efficiency 
capabilities. 
SIEMENS HAS A LOT OF EXPERIENCE IN BRAZIL. 
HOW DOES BRAZIL COMPARE TO THE GLOBAL 
OFFSHORE MARKETS? 
It is an exciting time to work in oil and gas in 
Brazil, especially considering I am Brazilian. 
After a period with low investment in offshore 
assets, the forecast is encouraging. Pre-
salt areas are being developed in record 
time, flaring policies are changing and 
infrastructure is being built to bring gas from 
offshore, avoiding millions of dollars per 
day of reinjection that can be monetized. 
As a result, more operators are investing in 
offshore concessions, which makes Brazil the 
front runner country for offshore oil and gas 
projects. 
On top of it, onshore development is also 
expected to expand as regulations change 
rapidly and Petrobras’ privatizes assets. With 
more than 170 years in Brazil and with several 
local facilities for engineering, products, 
and services, Siemens plans to support 
the industry’s development, growth and 
decarbonization.TAKE FIVE
CHRISTIAN SCHÖCK
MAY 2020 | COMPRESSORTECH2 | 53   analytics based on artificial intelligence (AI) 
are becoming more commonplace across 
the entire industry. Still, they are proving 
particularly advantageous offshore, where 
costs and risks are higher.  
HOW VITAL IS OFFSHORE PRODUCTION TO THE 
ENTIRE ENERGY LANDSCAPE? 
A significant portion of current oil and gas 
production comes from offshore fields and 
this will continue to be the case for the 
foreseeable future. Numerous studies have 
been published around this subject, many of 
which point to increasing offshore production 
through 2040. This is precisely why the oil 
& gas industry is focused on increasing 
efficiency and long-term sustainability.
HOW HAS THE OFFSHORE GAS COMPRESSION 
MARKET EVOLVED SINCE YOU FIRST GOT 
INVOLVED IN THE BUSINESS?
The offshore market is always pushing the 
limits of what is technologically possible. This 
has allowed us to exploit reserves in ultra-
deep waters at competitive costs. Exploration 
of the pre-salt layer in Brazil, for example, 
only commenced 11 years ago, and it already 
represents approximately 55% of the 
country’s total oil production. The injection 
pressure on such fields is considerably 
higher than a decade ago.
In recent years, compressors’ efficiency 
and tolerance to abrasive gases have 
improved considerably, while maintenance 
levels remained similar. The use of ultra-sonic 
compressors and subsea compressors is 
also increasing. Hydrogen-powered FPSOs 
could become feasible in the midterm 
and adopt solutions from onshore. Digital 
capabilities will continue to develop faster 
than the market is implementing the 
solutions.
An aerial view of 
the Dresser-Rand 
(Siemens) plant 
in Santa Barbara, 
Brazil. The plant 
supplies gas 
compressors to 
the area, as well 
as offers repair 
services for power 
equipment. 