gascompressionmagazine.com | APRIL  2024 32Maintenance plays an important role in a compressor’s total 
cost of ownership. Too often, however, operators view 
maintenance only as an expense, without considering its return 
on investment (ROI). While this mindset may be appropriate 
for reactive maintenance, preventative maintenance strategies 
can generate savings (i.e., by avoiding unplanned downtime) that 
far outweigh the actual cost of repairs and service. 
Developing and implementing a preventative maintenance 
approach for a compressor is a complex undertaking that re -
quires the evaluation of many different variables. No two facili -
ties or applications are the same. Maintenance concepts need 
to be tailored and optimized to ensure maximum compressor 
performance, efficiency, and uptime.  
THE ADVANTAGES OF REMOTE DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES
Siemens Energy has a long history of developing long-term 
service programs designed to meet the unique needs of our 
customers’ compression equipment, including both turbo-
compressors and reciprocating compressors. Depending on 
the requirements, these service programs can incorporate ad -
vanced digital monitoring tools, like remote diagnostic services 
(RDS), that enable enhanced visibility. 
Many compressor end users today are already using condi -
tion monitoring in combination with data analytics based on ad -
vanced technologies like artificial intelligence (AI) and machine 
learning. While the value these tools provide is not in question, 
it is important that they not be viewed as a direct replacement 
for original equipment manufacturer (OEM) expertise. Analytics are highly effective for flagging certain anoma -
lies in data that may indicate a potential problem. However, 
maximizing the predictive window and determining the best 
course of action ultimately requires operational context.
RDS provides this by establishing a collaborative, data-shar -
ing model between the plant operator and compressor OEM. 
The OEM receives data from the unit(s). With full transpar -
ency, dedicated engineers can then act as a natural extension of 
the customer team by providing advanced troubleshooting and 
24/7 remote support, along with recommendations for correc -
tive maintenance — without having to be physically onsite. 
The objective is to establish an early warning system that 
alerts plant operators to performance anomalies before a 
breakdown occurs. Data analytics tools can continue to be 
used for decision support, for example, on how best to man -
age degrading performance until the next planned mainte -
nance outage. Other advantages of RDS include:
•  OEM can screen false positives and forward only true-
positive identifications of abnormal behavior.
•  Allows for comparisons between actual as-is and as-de -
signed performance parameters, via the equipment design 
software packages.
•  Provides operators with access to as-build knowledge of 
equipment, which only the OEM has access to.
•  OEM can provide recommendations to extend mid-life 
and full-life overhauls and improve train availability. 
•  In certain cases, it may be possible to eliminate the need 
for spare trains and their associated capital and operat -
ing expenses. TRANSITIONING FROM REACTIVE 
TO PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE: 
A LOOK INTO SIEMENS ENERGY’S LONG-TERM COMPRESSOR SERVICE PROGRAMS SPONSORED CONTENT
SPONSORED CONTENT
Figure 1. RDS Offering Overview
BY HUI KUANG AND ANDREW FORD
SINGLE SHAFT TURBO-COMPRESSORS
With the largest compressor installed fleet worldwide, Sie -
mens Energy’s turbo-compressors are found in a wide range 
of industries and process applications. Our long-term service 
programs for single-shaft units include the following:
Level 1: Periodic Site Inspection With RDS  — Visual in -
spection of the compressor, auxiliary systems, special tools, 
and spare parts, along with a check of operational records, 
alarms, and event logs. 
Level 2: Minor Overhaul — Minor overhaul includes in -
spection of bearings, barrier and dry gas seals, and couplings. 
Instrumentation function and alignment checks are also per -
formed. Components are replaced based on their condition.  
Level 3: Onsite Overhaul — Complete disassembly of 
compressor bundle, including bearings and seals. Inspection, 
cleaning, and replacement of components based on condition, 
along with open/close wearables. Includes a coupling inspec -
tion and alignment check. 
Level 3: Bundle Exchange — Complete swap of the bun -
dle and disassemble, clean, inspection, and assemble (DCIA) 
of the old bundle (performed in the service shop). By swap -
ping the bundle onsite, Siemens Energy can reduce downtime 
by as much as six days. 
INTEGRALLY GEARED (I.E., MULTI-SHAFT) TURBO-COM -
PRESSORS
Siemens Energy built the world’s first integrally geared com -
pressor (IGC) in 1948. Today, we have more than 2200 units 
installed in a wide range of industries and process applications, 
including carbon dioxide service.
Our customized line of IGCs can accommodate up to four 
pinion shafts with up to eight impellers. Compressors can 
be designed according to API 617 or API 672 and customer 
specifications. Driver options depend on process and energy 
resources and can be electric motor, steam turbine, or gas 
turbine and are suitable for direct turbine-drive or even inte -
grated expansion turbine configurations.
Level 1 and Level 2 maintenance activities for IGCs are very 
similar to those for single-shaft units. The major differences 
for Level 3 activities are outlined below:
Level 3: Onsite Overhaul — Complete disassembly of 
the compressor gear set, including bearings, carbon seals, 
and oil seals/labyrinth seals. Components are cleaned, in -
spected, and replaced if needed. Couplings are inspected and 
alignment is checked. Level 3: Gear Set Exchange — Change of pinion shafts, 
bull gear, bearings, and all seals, along with refurbishment of 
replaced components. 
RECIPROCATING COMPRESSORS
Siemens Energy reciprocating units range from medium- to 
high-speed separable units driven by engines or electric mo -
tors, to large, slow-speed, motor-driven machines. Like tur -
bo-compressors, maintenance activities on our reciprocating 
units are typically separated into three different levels.
Level 1: Periodic Inspection — Components visually in -
spected for the compressor, auxiliary systems, special tools, 
and spare parts, along with a check of operational records, 
alarms, and event logs.
Level 2: Minor Overhaul — Check web defection, con rod, 
main bearings, thrust bearings, clearance, piston, and piston 
rods. Compressor valves are changed out as needed. Oil filters 
and open/closed wearables are replaced. Inspection of frame 
for debris and oil condition, as well as inspection of cylinder 
gas packages.
Level 3: Major Overhaul — Perform minor scope. Remove 
pistons and piston rods, inspect cylinders, replace rings, riders, 
and packing. Change out compressor valves and bearings. Flush 
lube oil system. 
“DIGITAL READY” COMPRESSION TRAINS
Virtually all OEMs today equip new compressor units with 
the requisite hardware and software to enable digital condition 
monitoring. However, in most cases, monitoring services are 
offered as an “add on” feature, and thus come at a cost to the 
end user.
OEMs can do their part to accelerate digital adoption by 
making “digital readiness” part of the standard offering on new 
compressor packages. This is an approach Siemens Energy has 
adopted for most of its turbo-compressors and drivers. 
At no additional cost through the warranty period, operators 
can access the health of their compression train remotely via 
our myHealth mobile app. myHealth aims to provide operators 
with a transparent and easy way to manage performance logs 
and planned outages, and to browse all the notifications issued 
for their compression trains. The data connection is included 
with the compressor train. However, it can easily be disabled de -
pending on the operator’s preferences. Depending on customer 
needs, more advanced capabilities, like RDS, can be added to the 
service package. 
gascompressionmagazine.com | APRIL  202433SPONSORED CONTENT
SPONSORED CONTENT
Figure 2. Exemplary 
Maintenance Schedule 
For A Compressor