Pushing 
sustainability  
for transformersTRANSFORMER  
AND ENVIRONMENT Christina IOSIFIDOU
94    www.transformers-magazine.com   95         TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Volume 11, Issue 4  |  2024
How do you evaluate how green the energy 
infrastructure we need to build is?
It’s all about making faster advancements to-
wards sustainability goals with high-quality 
solutions. We couldn’t just hang around and 
wait for progress. 
– Mohammad Shah, Team Lead, Energy Systems at DNVWe must ensure transformers are as green as possible from cradle to 
grave, and, ideally, back to cradle againto become more environmentally 
friendly. That means a more sustainable 
use phase, end-of-life management, 
and a greener supply chain for that 
infrastructure, i.e., raw materials and 
manufacturing. But how do you eval-
uate how green the energy infrastruc-
ture we need to build is? Just relying on 
a manufacturer’ s self-assessment is not 
sufficient. W e need a solution.
Evaluating a transformer’s 
sustainability 
A prime example is power transformers.  
With the global grid expected to 
double in size by 2040,  hundreds of 
thousands of new power transformers 
for the TSO grid will have to be in-Today, when we look at the 
world’ s energy infrastructure, 
we see a lot of “more”: more 
solar panels, wind turbines, 
transmission lines, substations, trans-
formers, grid control stations, energy 
storage facilities—you name it. 
One key driver is the global need to de-
carbonize electricity, enabling decen-
tralized energy generation. However, 
transitioning to a green future requires 
more than sustainable energy sources. 
The energy infrastructure itself needs 
senkrupp Electrical Steel. “They also 
want to be sure they can trust those 
numbers. ” 
T oday, we don ’t have standards to de-
fine what makes a transformer “green-
er” . Merely examining the transformer’ s 
operational carbon footprint is insuf-
ficient, as it neglects its embodied car -
bon, supply chain, environmental im-
pact, and social and economic factors. 
T o illustrate this, the embodied carbon 
of a 300 MV A transformer is estimated 
to be the equivalent of approx. 3.5 t of 
CO2e per ton transformer; of that, 91% 
accounts for materials and just 9% for 
manufacturing and transportation.
Stakeholders need to work 
together
This has to change, and not just because 
we must keep anthropogenic glob-
al warming under 1.5º centigrade. It’ s 
also good business. In its most recent 
report on World Energy Investment, the International Energy Agency (IEA) 
estimates total energy investments to 
exceed $3 trillion in 2024, with $2 tril-
lion expected to go toward clean tech-
nologies. This also means that today, 
investors and customers take a compa-
ny’ s sustainability into account before 
making substantial business decisions. 
These decisions would be easier if they 
could consider not just an asset’ s (such 
as a transformer’ s) performance but 
also its supply chain. 
T o remedy the situation, standardizing 
transformers’ Life Cycle Assessments 
(LCAs), defined by different Key Per -
formance Indicators (KPIs), is neces-
sary. This will help manufacturers, cus-
tomers, and regulatory entities reliably 
compare and assess transformers and 
identify best practices to reduce envi-
ronmental impacts. However, stake-
holders must work together to usher in 
such a new, robust standard.
Providing a basis for more 
effective communication
Luckily, efforts are underway to en-
hance sustainability transparency 
through standardization. At the 2022 
T ransformer Magazine conference, 
Siemens Energy Grid Technolo-
gies co-initiated the Joint Industry 
Project (JIP) with DNV  to develop a 
standardized transformer LCA with 
industry partners (OEMs, suppliers, 
and customers).  The result is a soon-
to-be-published report, Recommend-
ed Practice for Power T ransformer 
Sustainability. “It’ s all about making 
faster advancements towards sustain-
ability goals with high-quality solu-
tions, ” said Mohammad Shah, T eam stalled, resulting in the use of millions 
of tons of steel and copper and a large 
carbon footprint. 
Given these numbers, we must ensure 
transformers area as green as possible 
from cradle to grave and, ideally, back 
to cradle again. However, to do that, 
we need standards to evaluate sus-
tainable practices. It’ s in everybody’ s 
interest. “Customers not only want to 
know how green a transformer is, ” said 
Marcel Hilgers, Vice President at thys-
Industry collaboration: T o get ahead on 
the path to net zero, it’ s not just electric-
ity generation we need to decarbonize; 
energy infrastructure itself needs to 
become greener. That’ s particularly true 
for transformers. Y et, to this day, there 
is no established standard to evaluate 
their sustainability. Not for much longer. 
W orking groups at DNV and CIGRE 
are developing a framework to define a 
robust sustainability standard and, with 
it, best practices to reduce transformers’ 
environmental impacts.
 
Christina Iosifidou, Head of Sustainability Grid Technologies at Siemens Energy“Customers not only 
want to know how 
green a transformer 
is, they also want to 
be sure they can trust 
those numbers”
– Marcel Hilgers, 
VP Customers, Mar-
kets & Technology, 
thyssenkrupp Elec-
trical Steel Group
96    
www.transformers-magazine.com   97         TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Volume 11, Issue 4  |  2024TRANSFORMER  
AND ENVIRONMENT
Emission credits should be created annually, and EPDs for a grey prod -
uct line should not include emissions reductions sold through a green 
product lineSiemens Energy is committed to becoming climate-neutral in its opera-
tions by 2030, shifting to 100% green electricity, preventing processes 
that emit greenhouse gases, and reducing energy consumption overall
dardization . For example, future data 
quality assessment should be based on 
EN 15804, a European environmental 
product declaration (EPD) standard. 
While this standard mainly applies to 
the construction business, it also ap-
plies to the energy industry’ s solution 
business and the products it uses. 
In addition, the report suggests rules 
to ensure the harmonization and re-carbon intensity of the network, etc.) 
are also included. For example, it pro-
vides procedures for suppliers to assess 
the carbon footprint of raw materials 
such as steel or copper. 
Making real-world impact
The report also suggests scenarios to 
reduce data variation, providing a more 
straightforward path towards stan-Lead, Energy Systems at DNV . “W e 
couldn ’t just hang around and wait for  
progress. ” 
The report provides a basis for more 
effective communication and consul-
tation with and between power trans-
former stakeholders on sustainability 
parameters, terminology, data quality, 
and life cycle assessment. Influential 
aspects (e.g., recyclability, load factors, 
(Council on Large Electric Systems) 
in a Joint Working Group A2 / C3: 
LCA for Transformers led by Myles 
Margot, Senior Key Expert for Grid 
T echnologies at Siemens Energy. The 
goal is to go beyond DNV’ s JIP report 
in understanding and unpacking the 
entire life cycle and establish standard-
ized evaluations, scoring systems, and 
KPIs of the transformers’ environmen-
tal impact. The group started its work 
in 2024 and is happy to welcome new 
members, as only the collective exper -
tise of stakeholders will create the best 
comprehensive and practical frame-
work possible. 
Y et, the CIGRE working group is not 
expected to finish a report for approxi-
mately another two years. In the mean-
time – aside from joining the CIGRE 
group – what can you do? As an exam-
ple (and for orientation), let’ s look at 
how Siemens Energy has improved its 
transformers’ environmental footprint 
through sustainable and circular prac-
tices.
Self-assessments are not 
enough
As it is, Siemens Energy’ s transformers 
are fairly sustainable. They feature a 
compact design built to last up to 40 
years, using CO2-reduced materials, e.g., bluemint® Steel by thyssenkrupp 
for Amprion’s Ultranet Project. Over 
95% of our transformers’ total weight 
can be fully recycled end of life; we can 
also design transformers fully to scrap. 
Regarding manufacturing, Siemens 
Energy is committed to becoming  
climate-neutral in its operations by 
2030, shifting to 100% green electric-
ity, preventing processes that emit 
greenhouse gases, and reducing energy 
consumption overall. The transform-
ers have high-performance efficiency.  
Finally, their expected lifetime fulfills 
the EU’s EcoDesign Directive at a 
minimum and can easily exceed it.
And yet, as laudable as this effort may 
be, self-assessments won ’t be enough 
in the future. T ake, for example, the 
EcoDesign Directive. In the near fu-
ture, it will expand its scope, e.g., re-
quire digital product passports and 
focus not just on performance but also 
on material efficiency, durability, envi-
ronmental footprint, etc. For that, we 
need a robust standard as soon as pos-
sible. Once we have it, it will not only 
provide a reliable basis for comparison 
and evaluation for manufacturers, cus-
tomers, and regulatory entities. It will 
help us identify best practices to reduce 
transformers’ environmental impacts. 
That’ s what it is about in the end – cut-
ting emissions on the way to net zero.liability of using mass balancing in 
materials environmental accounting 
and declarations across a global supply 
chain and minimize the risk of double 
counting and general greenwashing. 
For example, emission credits should 
be created annually, and EPDs for a 
grey product line should not include 
emissions reductions sold through a 
green product line. Finally, the report 
also focuses on the end-of-life process 
to bring the industry closer to a holistic  
cradle-to-cradle approach and prepare 
circularity in the HV industry.
In the future, all this should enhance 
the tendering process, enabling more 
accurate comparisons and informed 
decision-making. “It was a no-brainer 
to participate in this working group, ” 
said Dr. Ghazi Kablouti, Global Portfo-
lio Sustainability Leader at Hitachi En-
ergy T ransformers. “W e need to drive 
the required changes across the value 
chain and collaborate with our partners 
on making real-world impact. ”
Happy to welcome new 
members
The DNV Industry recommendation 
is now being continued at CIGRE  
Author  
Christina Iosifidou is the Head of Sustainability 
Grid T echnologies at Siemens Energy. In this role, she 
drives the decarbonization of products, solutions and 
services across the value chain. She holds a Masters 
degree in business engineering from the T echnical 
University of Berlin. She started her carreer at Siemens 
Energy as PLM for Large Power T ransformers, where 
she later worked as Global Innovation Sales Manager 
and gained valuable experiences in Austria and Brazil too. She strongly 
believes that decarbonization is not a choice; it is a must to protect our 
planet for future generations. Achiving net zero is possible only by join-
ing hands together, and for this goal, she involves all the relevant stake-
holders to discuss strategies and, most importantly, to act.
“It was a no-brainer 
to participate in this 
working group. We 
need to drive the re -
quired changes across 
the value chain and 
collaborate with our 
partners on making 
real-world impact”
– Dr. Ghazi Kablouti,  
Global Portfolio 
Sus  tainability Lead -
er, Hitachi Energy 
Transformers
98    
www.transformers-magazine.com   99         
TRANSFORMERS  MAGAZINE  |  Volume 11, Issue 4  |  2024TRANSFORMER  
AND ENVIRONMENT