1. Subsea Transformer
The subsea transfo rmer is the main interface 
between a subsea transmission line and a subsea 
power distribution system. As a her metically 
sealed, fluid-fill ed and pressure-compensated 
unit, the subsea transformer enables long step-
outs, providing  the right voltage level to a wide 
range of consumer s, like subsea swi tchgears, 
subsea compressors and subsea pumps. Its 
natural-convection cooling reduces mai ntenance 
requirements and  provides excellent reliability.
Siemens Energy sub sea transformer design can 
be implemented i n a wide power range. The 
electrical desi gn is based on tradi tional onshore 
distribution transformers, but with an enhanced 
insulation system. All materials have been tested 
for pressure and fluid compatibil ity in an 
extensive qualifi cation program. In addition, the 
design was verifi ed using a prototyp e 
throughout extensive tests in factory and in 
shallow water conditions, performed  in Norway.
The subsea transfo rmer has also an in tegrated 
condition and mo nitoring system that is 
seamlessly integrated in the Siemens Energy 
subsea power control system and can easily be 
integrated with th ird party systems. This 
provides the operator with excel lent 
transparency into the equipment and  the status 
of its integrity, enabling optimization operation 
for enhanced performance and safety.An integrated sensor and monitoring system can 
be seamlessly connected with Siemens Energy 
Subsea Power Control system. This provides the 
operator with a continuous status display of the 
transformer integrity, and the ability to optimize 
operations for enhanced safety.
Key features Subsea Transformer
•Voltages up to 145 kVac
•Power rating up to 100 MVA
•Pressure-compensated design
•Robust enclosure design with optimi zed 
natural cooling  properties
•Biodegradable and  environmentally friendly 
MIDEL 7131® fluid filling
•Flexible interfaces (dry or wet-mate 
connections)
•Advanced condition monitoring system
•Qualified for 3,000 meters water depth siemens-energy.com/subsea
Subsea Transformer
Supporting the factory on the seabed:  The next 
generation of subsea transformers
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 1
Figure  1 Subsea Transformer illustration
In 2021, the Siemens Energy Subsea Tran sformer was successfully operated  in shallow water (Trondheim, Norway )
For more inform ation, please visit our websi te: siemens-energy.com/ subsea
Subject to change s and errors. The information gi ven in this document   only contains general descriptions  and/or performance features 
which may not al ways specifical ly reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further devel opment of 
the products.  The requested performance features are bindi ng only when they are expressly agree d upon in the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy  is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Trans formation o f Industry
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen
Germany
For the US Published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Trans formation o f Industry
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, F L 32826
USA