1.Subsea  Power Control
The Subsea Power Control system is a very 
important component of the Subsea Power Grid. 
It ensures several important functions in the 
subsea power  distribution: 
Direct transfer of every command given in the 
topside control system to the respective subsea 
control module using open standard interfaces 
(Profinet, OPC-UA, IEC 61850) 
Integration of the respective subsea modules 
like variable-speed drive (VSD) and switchgear 
to the topside control system using open 
standard communication interfaces 
Delivery of standardized interfaces (SIIS to other 
subsea located systems, Profinet/MDIS/IEC 
61850 to other topside systems). 
Delivery of a transparent communication 
channel from topside all the way to the subsea 
VSD. This enables configuration of the VSD, 
update of VSD software, as well as diagnostics 
and service being done the same way as with a 
topside VSD. 
Delivery of an extensive set of high quality 
condition data from the subsea power system. 
The datasets realizes full operational digital 
twins for all the subsea power assets. The Subsea Power Control system is connected 
with topside contro l via an embedded optic 
fiber in the subsea power umbilical. The fiber is 
terminated and connected to a subsea 
electronic power control unit (EPCU) - the 
“brain” of the Siemens Energy Subsea Power 
Grid. This controller unit processes commands 
and information and generates the correct 
commands locally to the respective subsea 
modules like VSD and switchgear. All data flow 
subsea is sent to and from the respective units 
via a remote termination unit (RTU) in an 
Ethernet data network. siemens-energy.com/subsea
Subsea Power Control
Supporting the factory on the seabed:
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 1
Figure  1 Subsea Power Control
For more inform ation, please visit our websi te: siemens-energy.com/ subsea
Subject to change s and errors. The information gi ven in this document   only contains general descriptions  and/or performance features 
which may not al ways specifical ly reflect those described, or which may undergo modification in the course of further devel opment of 
the products.  The requested performance features are bindi ng only when they are expressly agree d upon in the concluded contract.
Siemens Energy  is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 2
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Trans formation o f Industry
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen
Germany
For the US Published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Trans formation o f Industry
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, F L 32826
USA