1.Connect/Control
Subsea DigiGRID™  is a qualified generic control, 
safety, and Digital Twin system(s) intended for 
and used to control  any part in a subsea process 
setup. The main intention for a subsea DigiGRID  
implementation is to extend the interfaces for a  
regular topside Safety and Automation Setup 
(SAS) and Digital  twin system(s) to the seabed. A 
good example for  such an application is a subsea 
factory setup, including, pumps,  water treatment  
systems, separators, and electrical  power  
distribution.
Different requirements exist regarding types of 
(electrical and functional) interfaces for subsea 
connected equipment than for topside 
automation equipment. The interfaces for 
subsea connected  equipment and requirements  
for operating temperature range and  mechanical 
shock and vibration makes it not feasible to put  
regular topside interface units/boxes on the 
seabed. This is the reason for making and 
qualifying specialized components  and interface  
cards for subsea usage. Subsea DigiGRID™ design 
philosophy is to  build subsea systems consisting  
of small and flexible iRIO (Intelligent Remote IO) 
units with standard interfaces both  towards 
subsea connected  equipment and existing  
topside installed equipment.
Several types of  iSubsea DigiGRID™ usage.  
Available interface cards cover the use of  
different types  of serial ports, RS-485 and CAN  
buses, and discrete analogue and dig ital input 
and outputs.Subsea DigiGRID™ is a subsea control system 
based on open industrial communication 
standards that allows co-existence of Subsea  
Control Modules (SCM) and instrumentation  
from different vendors and of different  
generations of technologies. 
Biggest benefit of Subsea DigiGRID™ is the 
capability to act as an Integrated Solution in  
already existing topside installation.
Subsea DigiGRID™ may act as traditional I/O 
units providing inputs and outputs to SAS 
system and Digital twins located topside, and/or 
act as a stand alone control system on the 
seabed.
Subsea DigiGRID™  expands existing topside  
automation and Digital Twin interfaces to the 
seabed, eliminating data translation or protocol  
conversion.siemens-energy.com /subsea
Subsea DigiGRIDTM 
Connect/Control
A qualified generic control, safety and Digital 
Twin System(s)
© 2021 Siemens Energy Page 1Published by
For more inform ation, please visit our websi te: 
siemens-energy. com/ subsea
Subject to change s and errors. The information gi ven in this document   
only contains general  descripti ons and/or performance features whi ch 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of  the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agree d upon in the concl uded contract.
Siemens Energy  is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Transformation o f Industry
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen
GermanyFor the US Published by 
Siemens Energy, Inc. 
Trans formation o f Industry
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826
USA