siemens-energy.com/subsea
DigiTRON3
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 11.The World's first compact cost
effective 3kV subsea connector
Our DigiTRON range of connectors have a 
proven track record to provide trusted  quality 
and reliability. 
At Siemens Energy Subsea, we have developed, 
qualified and manufactured a new
 DigiTRON 
connector for single phase long step-out and 
higher voltage applications.
DigiTRON3 has extensive commonality with the 
trusted DigiTRON range, which makes this 
connector compact, therefore reducing  the 
impact on subsea structures and installations. 
With an improved design DigiTRON3 is a subsea
connector that has no recorded partial 
discharge (PD) level @ 1.73Uo(3.1kV) and 
2.5Uo(4.5kV), ensuring long-term integrity and 
reliability that minimises operational costs.2.Key features and benefits
•Compact connector size reduces impact on        
subsea structures therefore reducing client 
operating costs.
•A key new additi on to tour trusted DigiTRON 
range.
•An onerous manufacturing test prog ram 
providing quality and reliabili ty. 
•Enhanced design  and cable management 
resulting in the connector having no recorded PD 
levels @1.73 Uo(3.1kV) and 2.5Uo (4.5kV).
•Common interface with DigiTRON to al low 
interchangeability on existing struc tures.
•Modularity shared  with DigiTRON and 
qualification progr am conducted to  the latest 
industry standard s. 
•An engineered solution supporting today's 
increasing fiel d challenges. 
© 2022 Siemens Energy Page 2DigiTRON3siemens-energy.com /subsea
Specification
DigiTRON3  has improved  upon  the reliable 
DigiTRON design  to allow  further  qualification 
for higher voltage  applications: 
•Qualified to a  combination of  industry
specifications:  TR2390 Statoil (controls) & SEPS
SP-1001 (power)
•IEC voltage class: 1.8 / 3 (3.6) kV AC
•Frequency: 50 -  60 Hz
•Max. Continuous Current rating  in Seawater: 30
Amps
•Minimum breakdown voltage (<6Uo):  10.8kV
•Number of contacts (pins): 4
•Design Life: 30  years
•Maximum water depth: 4000m
•Working Temperature: -5°C to +60°C
Qualification Data  
Based on industry input and combinin g the 
requirements  of  controls and power specifications, 
we have used industry wide standards, TQP-02 in 
accordance with SEPS-SP-1001. This combined 
industry specification, along with our own vigorous 
testing, has produced excellent results in the  tests 
listed below:
•HV Breakdown
•Turbid Tank Wet  Mating
•Flooded Connector Back-End
•Long Term Flood ed Connector Back-End
•Flooded Connector Front-End
•Jumper Assembly PD
•Flooded Jumper  Assembly PDThe future for  DigiTRON3 - The 
reliability of the 'First Away'  connector
DigiTRON3 has endless capabilities to support  the 
customer’s future subsea connectivity 
requirements.  We understand our clients need  for 
the highest rel iability on  their fixed assets. The 
option  to implement a triple barrier solution at the 
umbilical termination combined with having no 
recorded (PD)  at 1.73Uo (3.1kV) gives DigiTRON3 
unprecedented factors of safety and reliability  
where it’s needed most. We’re  offering our clients a  
common ‘first away’ umbilical terminated connector 
for all  their controls systems.
As well as the increased mechanical and electrical 
ratings  the DigiTRON3 connector has the capability 
to become DC  qualified. Therefore, DigiTRON3 will 
have the capability for  DC power across control 
system,  enabling operators to save  significantly on 
installation costs.
Subject to changes  and errors. The information given  in this document only contains general descriptions and/or performance features 
which may not always specifically reflect those described, or whic h may undergo modification in the course of further developmen t of 
the products. The requested performance features  are binding only  when they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract.  Published by 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG 
Industrial Applications 
Freyeslebenstraße  1
91058 Erlangen
GermanyFor the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Transformation of Industry
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, F L 32826
USA
Siemens Energy is a trademark licen sed by Siemens AG.For more informati on, please contact: Phone:  +44 1229 580500  Email:  ulverstont echnicalcontrols.gb@siemens-energy.com