Steam turbines Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Reliable steam turbines for improved efficiency Tailormade and manufactured with passion Steam turbines from 10 kW to 1,900 MW Welcome to our steam turbine world. We, as your trusted heat and steam experts, bring over a century of experience and innovation in steam turbine technology. With more than 120,000 steam turbines successfully delivered globally, we stand as a testament to reliability, expertise, and unwavering commitment. Our steam turbines, built with precision and passion, serve as both generator drives and mechanical drives for compressors or pumps. They form the heart of numerous combined cycle and cogeneration plants and countless industrial applications. This showcases our proficiency in steam turbine technology and our dedication to promoting turbine efficiency. Contact us Utility Steam Turbines Proven utility steam turbines up to 1,900 MW Utility steam turbines with a power output  from 90 to 1,900 MW are used in conventional steam power plants as well as in combined cycle power plants. With more than 8,000 steam turbines in service worldwide we provide proven technology. Explore our portfolio Download the product brochure here Industrial Steam Flexibel industrial steam turbines up to 250 MW As a market leader for industrial steam turbines, we offer a comprehensive range of reliable and versatile steam turbines for the power output range from 2 to 300 MW. Our industrial steam turbines are designed for easy constructability, fast start-up and economical operation. Explore our portfolio Download our product brochure here Small Steam Turbines A comprehensive range of API turbines Whatever the requirements are, we provide either bare steam turbine drivers to OEMs, or we supply complete packages including gears, lube oil systems and controls. The Dresser-Rand steam turbines cover a range from <10 kW up to 25 MW. Explore our portfolio Download our product brochure here Solutions for nuclear power plants Find out more about our steam turbines for nuclear power plants. Visit website Our service offerings Maintenance and overhaul Read more Modernizations and upgrades Read more Spare parts Read more Modernization of small steam turbines Read more Revolutionizing decarbonization with reliable steam turbines The  industry has witnessed a remarkable shift towards decarbonization,  driven by advancements in steam power technology, process optimization, and heat management. Enhancing steam turbine performance and efficiency has improved efficient heat utilization and overall energy efficiency, leading to a significant reduction in carbon emissions. These developments have not only bolstered the utilization of renewable energy sources but have also underscored the industry's commitment to environmental responsibility. Decarbonization has three levers For us, decarbonization has three levers: fuel shift, process optimization in the industrial sector, and increase of efficiency. Our solutions can support to tackle these three levers. How? Watch the video to learn more about our impactful approach Fuel shift - renewables Dubai’s new CSP plant is designed to collect heat from the sun and store it in molten salt or convert it directly into electricity via a steam generator set. Read the full story here Energy efficiency BASF's modernized power plant is now 10% more efficient and emits a more than 16 percent lower volume of greenhouse gases such as CO₂. Read the full story here Process optimization Waste Heat Recovery (WHR) can be a good pathway to net-zero in the cement sector  by utilising waste heat to produce electrical power. Read the full story here The heart of every power plant Siemens Energy Steam Turbines are an essential piece of turbomachinery to many power plants worldwide. They are applied either as a generator drive or a mechanical drive for pumps and compressors. The modular design concept of all steam turbines ensures high flexibility, availability and a reduction of time-to-market. Steam turbine manufacturing The implementation of tailor-made steam turbine technology and optimized turbine efficiency ensures efficient and reliable industrial processes. Through extensive consultancy and analysis of your water-steam cycles, we deliver customized steam turbines that precisely fit our customers' needs, setting them on the pathway to decarbonization with enhanced turbine steam path technology. Our steam turbines reliably serve as mechanical drives or as backpressure and condensing steam turbines your power generation. Power Generation Mechanical drives Back-pressure turbine Condensing turbine Continous technological development Thermal-mechanical longterm storage Compressed air energy storage (CAES) is a comprehensive, proven, grid-scale energy storage solution. We support projects from conceptual design through commercial operation and beyond. Our CAES solution includes all the associated above ground systems, plant engineering, procurement, construction, installation, start-up services and long term service support. Learn more here SeaFloat – Floating steam turbines Floating power plants’ unique characteristic is the ability to deliver them in one piece; almost completely pre-installed following a smart plug & play philosophy. Our new SeaFloat floating power plant concepts can be utilized for mobile and/or permanent installation to alleviate energy shortages for national grid or industrial application. Mobility, flexibility, decentralized power generation, shorter construction time, reliable technology, robust design, optimization for easy maintenance bring benefits and increase your added value. Learn more Modernization for ammonia syngas trains with steam turbine drives Modernization options for ammonia syngas trains can meet a wide range of plant requirements for uptime, efficiency, costs, and footprint. As operators seek to extend the life of facilities, syngas trains have become atarget of modernization projects due to their significant impact on overall plant efficiency, production capacity, and operating expenses. Learn more and read the deep dive article here Energy intensive industries Efficient energy systems in industries like pulp and paper or chemical production are critical for reducing costs and emissions. Key strategies include process optimization for enhanced productivity, and effective heat management for energy efficiency. Steam turbine performance is vital within this, as improved efficiency reduces energy use and boosts overall operational effectiveness. Moreover, integrating renewable energy into industrial processes can further increase energy efficiency and lower emissions. Thus, through strategic heat utilization, steam turbine efficiency, and renewable energy use, industries can achieve significant cost and emission reductions. Energy for Fiber industries We have been proving our expertise in the global fiber industry for decades. Based on our comprehensive experience in automation, electrification, and power generation and in the paper production domain, our solutions help ensure your success in the competitive fiber market. Read more Combined heat and power plants Siemens Energy offers record-breaking solutions for industrial and communal combined heat and power trains to full turnkey installations. Read more Energy from biomass An age-old fuel put to new use. Watch our video for a quick overview Read more Energy from sun power Siemens Energy steam turbines are the most often used power generation product in solar thermal power plants. Our tailored steam turbines are reliably operating in all common concentrated solar power (CSP) plant types. Read more References Oberhausen, Germany Chemical park in Oberhausen, Germany Customer: Oxea GmbH Scope: SST-600 turbogenerator set, power output: 12 MW Oxea GmbH installed a modern, high-efficiency turbine-generator unit to replace an historical 63-year-old radial steam turbine from Siemens that has clocked 400,000 operating hours Read more Beni Suef, Egypt Burullus, a combined cycle power plant: Customer: Egyptian Electricity Holding Co. (EEHC) Power output: 3 x 4.8 GW (14.4 GW total) Efficiency: > 60 % net Scope: 12 x SCC5-8000H (2x1), each with 2 x SGT5-8000 gas turbines, 1 x SST5-5000 steam turbine, 3 x SGen5-2000H generator, SPPA-T3000 I&C system, HRSG Chaiyaphum, Thailand Power and heat management for a Thai sugar plant Customer: Mitr Phol Bio Power Co., Ltd Power output: 45 MW Scope: 2 x SST-300 steam turbines, PCS7 I&amp;C system, 2 x SST-300 turbogenerator set Brochures Dresser Rand steam turbines PDF (6 MB) Download Industrial steam turbines PDF (7 MB) Download Utility steam turbines PDF (4 MB) Download Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025