siemens-energy.com/generatorsSGen-100A-4P 
air-cooled generator 
series
For gas and steam power applications from 25-85 MVA
1 Welded casing
5 Cooler  
Implemented either in totally enclosed 
water-to-air, closed air-to-air or direct air-
cooling systems2 Stator winding and insulation  
are form wound coils featuring Siemens 
Energy epoxy-mica insulation technology
6 Brushless exciter set  
With or without Permanent Magnet 
Generator (PMG)3 Salient-pole rotor  
With solid pole shoes
4 Stator coreProven four-pole air-cooled generators from our SGen-100A-4P series, are 
the answer for turbine generators in industrial plants. Our air-cooled gener -
ators are developed by using state-of-the-art methods. By working with 
special computer programs for calculation, design, and production, we can 
optimally match the generators to our customers’ needs. 
4
2
3
6
15
SGen-100A-4P
2
Technical specifications SGen-100A-4P 
FrequencyApparent  
power EfficiencyTerminal  
voltage 
SGen5-100A-4P 50 Hz 25-85 MVA up to 98.5% 6.0 - 15.75 kV 
SGen6-100A-4P 60 Hz 25-80 MVA up to 98.5% 6.0 - 15.75 kV 
Key
benefitsHigh  
efficiency
High  
serviceability
Long  
service lifeHigh reliability 
and avail -
ability
Low installation 
and commission 
costs
SGen-100A-4P
3
Applications
Gas & steam power generation
• Our air-cooled generators are designed to fit all Siemens 
Energy steam and gas turbines, offering maximum 
flexibility for industrial steam power.
• With hydrogen powered turbines, a complete decarbon-
ization of the power generation can be achieved.  
Oil and gas application
• Special explosion protection solutions are offered for a 
broad variety of applications and the highest operational  
safety.
• Oil and gas power applications require generators with 
lowest possible weight, explosion protection solutions 
and stringent electrical standards.Installation, operation &  
maintenance
Installation
• low installation costs
• short installation time
• footprint requires minimal space  
Operation
• operational safety due to special explosion protection
• stator end winding system allows for thermal expansion 
and contraction during operation
• remains stable during load changes or flexible operation  
Maintenance
• easy generator access to all relevant components for any 
required maintenance and service
• maintenance-free global vacuum pressure impregnated 
stator core and winding
SGen-100A-4P
4
Published by and copyright © 2024
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
Freyeslebenstrasse 1  
91058 Erlangen  
Germany  
For the U.S. published by
Siemens Energy, Inc.  
4400 N Alafaya Trail  
Orlando, FL 32826  
USA 
For more information, please visit our website:  
siemens-energy.com/generators  
Email: sales.generator.energy@siemens-energy.com
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance features which 
may not always specifically reflect those described, or which may 
undergo modification in the course of further development of the 
products. The requested performance features are binding only when 
they are expressly agreed upon in the concluded contract. All product 
designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens Energy 
Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties 
for their own purposes could violate the rights of the owners.
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.