THYRIPART® -S
Omnivise Electrical Solutions 
Compound Excitation Systems
www.siemens -energy.com
The Task
Sooner or later, the existing excitation system 
will reach the end of its service life. This may be 
because some modules have been discontinued, 
or simply because they can no longer operate 
economically. This is the case if, for example, 
spare parts are only available at high prices, or 
grid operators impose new requirements for 
control dynamics which the systems are unable 
to meet, or for some other reason the statistical 
risk of failures exceeds beyond acceptable 
levels. 
What is then required is a solution that perfectly 
fits the existing situation in the plant and 
ensures reliable, continuous operation based on 
innovative technology.
Our Solution
CES is a tried -and-tested solution for synchro -
nous generators of any manufacturer and can 
be used both as a static excitation system for 
generators and for excitation of rotating 
excitation machines. Over 300 installations in 
operation have demonstrated the unconditional 
reliability and robustness for years.Compound excitation systems (CES)
are excitation systems for synchronous generators and emergency diesel generators. They are suitable for lower and upper perf ormance classes 
with a generator power of up to approximately 50 MVA in hydroelectric, gas, steam and nuclear plants (emergency diesel) and a re character -
ized by maximum safety and absolute availability. CES excitation systems are available as load dependent static and brushless vers ions.
The solution adapts to the conditions in 
each individual power plant regardless of 
the available footprint, which generator is 
used and which power supply and control 
system is available. 
CES have been designed to meet the highest 
demands without compromising on safety 
and reliability. This concept is unique in the 
market: It is essentially based on the use of 
the Harz Circuit with a resonant circuit, thus 
reducing the number of components 
required to operate the excitation to a 
minimum. Basic excitation is ensured even 
in the event of controller failure by using 
purely passive components. This also 
complies with the demands of emergency  
diesel generators in nuclear plants.
CES uses only proven, tried -and-tested 
industry standard components and can be 
integrated into the existing plant without 
any problems. 
Of course, Siemens Energy ensures a 
smooth transition, encompassing everything 
from project planning and commissioning to 
ongoing service support for CES. 
Your Benefits
▪Uncompromisingly high 
safety and absolute reliability 
of the excitation system due 
to the unique safety concept
▪Low maintenance costs 
through the use of proven 
industry components and 
modular structure
▪Simple exchange of the      
existing excitation system in          
minimum time and without 
interface problems
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG Unrestricted

Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Gas Services
Siemenspromenade 9
91058 Erlangen, Germany
Siemens Energy, Inc.
Gas Services
4400 N Alafaya Trail
Orlando, FL 32826, USA
For more information, please contact
Email : electrical -solutions@siemens -energy.com
© Siemens Energy, 2023
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this 
document only contains general descriptions and/or performance 
features which may not always specifically reflect those described, or 
which may undergo modification in the course of further 
development of the products. The requested performance features 
are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. 
All product designations may be trademarks or product names of 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose 
use by third parties for their own purposes could violate the rights of 
the owners.