  
As a global leader in power 
transmission technology and a long-standing, trusted partner of public entities and private enterprises, such as utilities and grid operators, we have always 
been in the vanguard of 
technical development. We look back on a long history of trendsetting in power transmission projects around the world that have proven time and time again the reliability and outstanding quality of our products, solutions and services.  
Energy ecosystems around the 
world are in a state of profound change. Reliable electricity is a basic requirement for societies. While details may vary from country to country, and even from supply area to supply area, there are challenges for grid op-erators and power producers. Underdeveloped or weak grids, mature and ageing infrastruc-
ture and liberalized markets in-
cluding a growing share of al-ternative energy sources, lead-ing to the associated disruption to business models.    
 Modern challenges for a  legacy power grid  
 
Increasingly decentralized en-ergy systems and the associated fluctuating power flows pose new challenges for the existing, mature grid infrastructure. Thermal overloads in the lines and a growing number of cases in which frequency and voltage come quickly critically close to acceptable range limits, or even exceed them, threaten grid sta-bility and the transmission infra-structure, and often require  costly redispatch intervention to deal with current and voltage factors.   
 UPFC PLUS (Unified Power Flow Controller) - The missing 
piece to the puzzle  
 To effectively manage the trans-mission system and provide the stability and resilience required means operators must better utilise existing assets. This can be achieved by employing the dynamic load flow manage-
ment solution with UPFC PLUS which is extremely faster to control and can manage both series and parallel compensa-tion to keep lines within the n-1 criterion and the electricity flowing.   
UPFC PLUS  
 
Fast, efficient and future-proof stabilization of AC grids  

The UPFC
 PLUS can balance load 
flow in the AC grid, rapidly by-
pass overloaded line sections, provide reactive power and dy-namic voltage control, and uti-lise assets safely closer to physi-cal limits. 
The UPFC PLUS is arranged as 
two voltage sources. One in parallel that controls voltage and one in series connected to the AC line. It provides reactive power compensation, voltage 
control at shunt and active 
power load flow control at the series side in one unit. 
Compared to traditional station-
ary power flow controllers, UPFC PLUS controls the load flow in just milliseconds. UPFC PLUS thus stabilizes the AC grid even when critical situations de-velop suddenly (Grid Code n-1). That means UPFC PLUS lets you get the most from your existing grid capacity while maintaining maximum protection, reducing the risk of power failures, and minimizing redispatch costs. 
Technical Advantages 
Dynamic 
With a 
response time of  
milliseconds, the UPFC PLUS re-acts much faster as conven-tional solutions 
Functional  
UPFC PLUS offers additional 
functionality beside load flow control for example reactive 
power compensation 
Flexible  
All system voltages can be ad-
dressed up to 500kV 
Efficient  
Lower investment compared to 
other solutions that combine all functionalities. Lower losses and less harmonic emissions than comparable solutions 
Powerful  
Controlled power range is multi-
ple of installed power depend-ing on UPFC PLUS installation Summary of UPFC benefits  
The UPFC PLUS applies the fea-tures and advantages of the well proven compact multi-level Voltage Sourced Converter (VSC) technology with its ad-vanced control, high availability and reduced costs due to sys-tematic standardization. 
It provides answer to today's ur-
gent challenges to keep the grid stable. UPFC PLUS can easily be implemented in an existing grid and allows fast reaction times for an efficient load flow man-agement. With this option and the high dynamic control assets can be operated closer to physi-cal limits. Thus, UPFC is an innovative so-lution to comply with the grow-ing requirements to the grid with dynamic load flow man-agement that adapts easily to changing infeed from renewa-ble sources by fluctuating con-sumption, even in case of faults in the infrastructure. 
Siemens Energy opens the door 
to a new era in power supply by 
adapting our mature in-house technology. 
For more information, please 
contact: 
factsinfo.energy@siemens ‐
energy.com  
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG.
Technical  Advantages  
Benefits 
