Press release  
Restricted  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  1 of 3 
 
Orlando, January 28, 2021  
Siemens Energy wins its first black -start 
battery storage project for power generation 
in the U.S.  
• Contract for engineering, procurement and construction work at Marsh Landing facility (Antioch, 
CA) will allow the plant to quickly restart and facilitate grid re -energization in the event of an 
outage  
• Project will provide critical reliability service to the Bay Area and improve grid stability  
 
Siemens Energy announced today that it will de sign, build and commission a black -start system at 
Clearway’s Marsh Landing Generating Station near Antioch, California (“Marsh Landing”).  Black -
start capabilities will allow the station to restart the flow of electricity to the facility’s auxiliary 
syste ms without the support of an external power supply in the case of an outage or blackout 
situation.  Siemens Energy will engineer and build a customized battery energy storage system 
(“BESS”) that can support up to three attempts to restart a unit at Marsh Landing within one hour.   
 
Traditional emergency back -up systems run on diesel generators or small, fossil fuel industrial 
turbines.  By contrast, the BESS -based black -start system operates in a carbon -neutral way to start 
one of the plant’s four combusti on turbine generator units.  In addition to the BESS, the project will 
involve transformers to increase voltage, switch gear to integrate the BESS into the broader Marsh 
Landing system, electrical, civil and structural engineering and control system modifi cations.   
 
“Battery storage systems like this one are capable of fully restarting power on a highly expedited 
basis,” said Laura Anderson, senior vice president, Controls and Digitalization for Siemens Energy .  
“We are excited to lead this p roject at Marsh Landing because it will not only help to restore power 
quickly in the event of an outage, but it will reduce emissions over traditional back -up systems.  It 
will also improve grid reliability in the Bay Area.”  
 
The Marsh Landing Generating Station is a four -unit simple -cycle plant and was one of Siemens 
Energy’s first “Flex -Power” plants, which are capable of fast starts that minimize emissions while Press release  

Press release  
Restricted  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  2 of 3 
 
ramping up to full power in only 12 minutes .  It entered commer cial operation in 2013 and can 
provide 720 megawatts of electricity to the California grid, enough to serve up to 650,000 homes.  
Siemens Energy supplied the four gas turbines, four generators, the SPPA -T3000 distributed control 
system and auxiliary and se condary systems for the plant.  
 
 “Battery storage will play an increasingly important role in both  securing the power grid and 
enabling  renewable energy generation,” said Chad Plotkin, chief financial officer at Clearway 
Energy. “We are excited to work wit h Siemens Energy on this strategically important project at 
Marsh Landing to deliver long -term grid resilience and continue to act as a source of reliable power 
supply to the Bay Area.”  
 
Work on the project has already begun, with the project scheduled to commence in early -summer 
2021.  
 
Contact for journalists  
Stacia Licona  
Phone:  281-721-3402  
E-mail:  stacia.licona@siemens -energy.com  
 
This press release is available at www.siemens -energy.com/press   
 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_energy   
Press release  
Restricted  Siemens Energy AG  
Communications  
Head: Robin Zimmermann  Otto -Hahn -Ring 6  
81739 Munich  
Germany  
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.  Page  3 of 3 
 
Siemens Energy  is one of the  world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers 
and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its 
portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens En ergy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power 
generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology,  
such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and powe r generators and transformers. 
More than 50  percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens 
Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimat ed 
one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs  
more than 90,000  people worldwide in more than 90  countries and generated revenue of around €27.5  billion  
in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens -energy.com . 