 
       sheet 1 of 8 
 
 
  
siemens -energy.com  SIPREC  C 
Thyristor  Controller Upgrade - HV Power Supply for 
Electrostatic Precipitator ESP  

 
       sheet 2 of 8 SIPREC C Technical Description  
The upgrade of existing ESP thyristor controller is typically carried out when:  
 
• Due to missing functionality of the existing controller the maximum required ESP collecting 
efficiency cannot be reached  
• No energy management available to reduce the operating costs  
• No services provided by the OEM  
• No spare parts available  
• No possibility f or bus coupling to subordinated control systems (PLC/DCS) with additional 
diagnostic data for ESP operation  
• The required availability cannot be ensured any more 
 
SIPREC C is a thyristor controller upgrade set for the retrofit of existing thyristor control ler of different 
brands. The existing control cubicle with all power components (fused disconnector/circuit breaker, 
main contactor, SCR -thyristor stack, CT) and peripheral components (interface relays, terminals etc.) 
are reused.  
In case the power components are already obsolete with increasing failure rate or when the cubicle is 
worn down , it is recommended to install new thyristor control cubicles.  
The effort of the upgrade depends on the design (OEM, type), the condition of the equipment, the peripheral connections and installation type of the HV power supplies. In case the power components 
of the control cubicle and the transformer rectifier set ( TR set) can be reused, essentially only the 
control components in  the control cubic le and inside the TR set junction box needs to be exchanged.  
To achieve highest electromagnetic compatibility optical fiber cables are installed for the signal 
exchange between thyristor controller (control cubicle) and TR set. In case no optical fiber ca bles are 
installed with the previous installation and the installation of new optical fiber cables is not possible , 
then the existing signal cables can be reused for the signal exchange.  
Based on the circuit diagrams of the existing HV power supplies, opt imized solutions for the retrofit 
and signal exchange in conjunction with the new available controller functions, are suggested and defined. For this purpose, the SIPREC controller consist of sufficient number of configurable digital and 
analogue in- /outpu ts.   
Typically, nowadays only the safety signals are hardwired where all other control, signal and diagnosis 
signals are communicated via bus. For highest EMC standard all SIPREC controller provide the optical 
PROFIBUS interface. Special optical link modu les, converter and gateways enable the easy networking 
to existing PLC/DCS with the required bus protocol.  
 
       sheet 3 of 8  
 
 
SIPREC C Installation 
Thyristor control cubicle 
     Typically, the new SIPREC controller (PIC 167 controller board) will 
be installed inside the control cubicle and the new SITOUCH operating panel in the control cubicle front door.  
 For the retrofit of previous thyristor controller type COROMATIC -F / 
SIFUPIC F installed in a box (PICBOX) at the cubicle door, the 
controller is replaced with installation of a new PICBOX.  
For the retrofit of previous thyristor controller type COROMATIC -F / 
SIFUPIC F installed in a mounting rack, the rack will be reused for 
the installation of the SIPREC controller board.  
 

 
       sheet 4 of 8 If not already existing, the optical fiber cable can be laid during plant operation. This saves plant down 
time when the upgrade shall be done during operation. The existing optical fiber cable can be reused 
with original CORO MATIC -F / SIFUPIC F installations.  
Depending on plant configuration the SIPREC installation can be carried out one by one with electrostatic 
precipitator in operation or during a plant down time.  
The following installation steps are typically carried out at the control cabinet:  
     
   
   Remove of old controller ( e.g.  EFST, COROMATIC C/R/F, FSR6x, 
PROFIMAT, TH S3 -6, ELIN, SCHRACK,  ……)  and non- reusable 
controller components and cables  
 
 Installation of the new SIPREC PIC167 controller board depending on 
type of installation (see above)  
 Remove existing operating panel/displays. Carry out cubicle door 
cut-out and installation of the new SITOUCH operating touch panel.  
 Installation of new EFIP 167 thyristor firing board closed to the SCR 
(thyristor stack)  
 Installation of the SITOP 24V DC power module for the SIPREC PIC167 
controller board and  SITOUCH operating panel  
 
 
 
 
 Installation for optional components:  
Isolation amplifier  
• For integration of analogue process signals (like process load 
conditions, ESP gas temperature, emission value, …)  
• For r emote trending of the analogue signals for ESP voltage / 
current  
• SIPREC PIC167 analogue input for ESP voltage/current signal in 
case the optical fiber cable is not or cannot be installed  

 
       sheet 5 of 8  Coupling re lays 
• For the control of rapper motors  
• For integration of additional signals as e.g. calibration 
emission monitoring system, WESP protection, monitoring 
main contactor, remote acknowledgement etc .  
 Execute of cable connections for the 24V DC power supply, for the 
control of the thyristors, fo r all analogue and  digital in -/outputs of 
the  SIPREC PIC167 controller board, for the isolation amplifier and 
the current transformer . 
  Installation of optical fiber cables and optical link modules for 
PROFIBUS coupling to PLC/DCS and SIPREC ODS.  
 
 
Examples for realized thyristor controller upgrades:  
   
 
 
PIC167 installed at 
cubicle mounting plate  PIC167 installed at existing 
controller rack  PIC167 /  SITOUCH operating 
panel  installed in controller 
box at cubicle front door  
  
  

 
       sheet 6 of 8 HV Transformer rectifier set ( TR set)  
Old TR set may not be equipped with an internal or external HV divider for the measurement of the 
secondary voltage. As this is required for the operation of today’s thyristor controller, the installation of 
a new TR set is recommended rather than the cost intensive installation of a separate HV divider.  
Available analogue signal cables for the secondary voltage and current 
measurement and the binary TR set protection signals may be reused. For highest electromagnetic c ompatibility however,  it is recommended to use 
the standard solution with optical fiber cables and HV acquisition unit. 
With the optical fiber cable beside the TR set analogue signals also the 
binary signals of the TR set protection device(s) are transmitted to the SIPREC controller. Therefore, beside the power cable and the optical fiber 
cable no other cable is required between TR set and control cubicle.  
The following modifications are carried out at the TR  set junction box:  
Reuse of the existing analogu e signals and 
cables:  Depending on the analogue signal value the existing 
shunt modules at TR set junction box and isolation 
amplifiers at the control cubicle may be exchanged.  
Transmission of TR set signals via optical 
fiber cable:  
 
     Installation of the SIPREC  HS-230 HV acquisition unit 
and exchange of the shunt module and surge arrestors.  
No modifications are required for the retrofit of the 
COROMATIC -F / SIFUPIC F controller with optica l fiber 
cable connectors type DUPLEX.  
 
 
In general: When a HV cable is installed for the HV supply to the ESP field, a high voltage damping resistor 
must be installed at the cable end on ESP side.  
 
Addon: SIPREC ODS  
The SIPREC ODS program based on WINDOWS operating system supports the S IPREC HV  power supply 
systems for the central operation, visualization, data archiving of measured operating values, for 
optimization of the ESP operation  and diagnostic purposes.  
SIPREC ODS optimize s the ESP collecti ng efficiency at lowest power consumption. The extensive 
diagnostic functions enable beside the fault analysis , the evaluation of the ESP operating process and 
provide information for the predictive maintenance. Furthermore, the diagnostic functions also f orm the 
basis for the fast and inexpensive Siemens Energy remote service.  
 

 
       sheet 7 of 8  
 
 
For further information please see our separate SIPREC ODS brochure . 
 
Time Frame  
The installation  / commissioning must be carried out only by special qualified personal. The time required 
for the installation/commissioning work depend s on the type of controller upgrade, the additional 
peripheral connections to be installed and the condition of the installation (one by one during operation 
or during plant down -time).  
The installation  / commissioning of the first TR set of course takes longer compared to the next sets. The 
upgrade of four thyristor controller takes typically 5 working days carried out by two of our experienced 
specialists. This estimation is based on a typical installation excluding works for cable installation (optical 
fiber cable).  
The time required for the technical instructions (customer training) depends on number of employees 
to be trained and the availability of the attendees. Suggested is to  do the training already during the 
installation and commissioning period.  

 
       sheet 8 of 8 
Take advantage from our experience  
 
We are looking forward answering your questions concerning the modernization of ESP high voltage 
power supplies, the data exchange to the PLC / DCS, the possible increase in ESP collecting efficiency, 
potential for power savings or other questions related to the ESP operation.  
Just g et in contact with us . 
 
 
 
        
Published by  
 
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG  
SE GP G IC DE Electrostatic Precipitator  
Freyeslebenstrasse 1,  
91058  ERLANGEN, Germany  
For more information, please visit our website:  
www. siemens -energy.com  
Or sent an email to :  siprec.energy@siemens -energy.com  
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document 
only contains general descriptions and/or performance  
features which may not always specifically reflect those  
described,  or which may undergo modification in the course of  
further development of the products. The requested performance  
features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in  
the concluded contract.  
 
Siemens Energy is a registered trademark licensed by Siemens AG.    
   