siemens -energy.com/ sensproductsAdded transparency, enhanced productivity and 
advanced intelligenceSensgear ® 
Born connected 

Introduction
Transmission equipment is always positioned at critical nodes 
in the grid. It candeliver a lot of information if sensors used 
get connected. While monitoring equipment can provide a lot 
of information already, the focus of Sensgear ® is more than 
sheer asset management, it supports active management of 
the grid.
Just imagine: Gas -insulated switchgears or circuit breakers let 
you know their current status in near -real time via an online 
application. This means you can take better decisions, 
optimize the management of your grid, which results in more 
flexibility and more economic operation. 
Enhance productivity with health index, health index 
prediction, and a reduction of unplanned downtime.
Additionally, Sensgear ® will come with F -gas reporting
functionality, meaning operators can reduce costs to comply 
with regulations. They also obtain a notification even before a 
critically low alarm level –good for the environment and the 
operator, as penalties can be avoided. Thanks to its artificial 
intelligence powered data analytics, Sensgear ® increases the 
efficiency and sustainability of your assets and operations.Beneficial applications 
•Preventive detection of suspicious & critical assets thereby 
reducing the risk of unplanned outages
•Early warning and push notification on mobile devices 
before it gets critical
•Reduced manhours on equipment with less costs & time for 
travel and SF6controlling at site
•Cost savings for unplanned SF6leakage repairs
•Less risk contingencies and penalties for SF6emissions
•Mechanical lifetime trending and projection
•Fleet coverage in a unified manner
•Artificial intelligence powered analysis
•Comprehensive visualization tools to support further 
decision making
Sensgear are part of the Sens -Family and are easily 
connectable to Sensarrester , Sensformer and Sencoil .
IoT deviceConnectivityFrom data collection to value and performance increase
© Siemens Energy, 2021                    Page 2Diagram 1 Sensgear ®  system overviewData collection on devices
Sensgear Advanced OverloadSensgear ® Born connected 
Sensgear
Notification appCloud platform
*upcoming for 8VN1 Blue GIS 145 kVBasic KPIs
 Fleet view
 Status manager
AI gas alarm 
prediction
Mechanical life -
time trend
F-gas inventory 
& reports
Circuit breaker 
idle time
Overload 
management*
Data 
download 
Runs on desktop 
& mobile devices
Sensgear Advanced Trending
Auxiliary / limit switch
+monitoring of switching 
position and mode condition
+counting of operation cycles 
Gas density
+monitoring actual gas density 
and remote gas alarming 
+gas density trending
Cabinet temperature
+cabinet condition monitoring: 
functioning of anti -conden -
sation & low -temperature 
heater 
Ambient temperature
+temperature range 
adherence
GPS / GSM antenna
+fleet view 
(GPS based mapping)
+weather information

Sensgear ® hardware and sensors
Sensgear ® equipment is delivered pre -equipped with all
necessary hardware. The IoT gateway is pre -configured and 
pre-installed on the device. It comes with GPS and local 
weather information, as well as the following measurement: 
gas density, temperature, circuit breaker counter and position 
& readiness.
Hardware and sensors have the renowned reliability of
Siemens Energy products: sensors are well -proven, integrated
and reduced to the essentials; there is no local analytics
hardware. Furthermore, the connectivity is based on a “read -
only” concept without any influence on the protection and 
control of the device.
All connectivity levels are based on the same platform, so 
that a fleet can consist of basic Sensgear ® equipment, as well 
as Sensgear ® with advanced features (see diagram 1).
Sensgear ® features at a glance
Sensgear ® comprises the following transmission products:
•Gas-insulated switchgear, circuit breakers and instrument 
transformers
•Connectivity via GSM (GPRS/EDGE/3G) or LAN/WAN
•Data transmission with 1min/batch with up to 1 sample per 
second
•Cybersecurity concept designed considering the various 
security standards such as NERC -CIP, ISO and IEC 27001
•Web and mobile interface, providing instant information 
like equipment details, fleet location, trend visualization, 
alarm information, etc.
•Open platform for co -creation of software applications/ 
customer use cases
•Secure cloud -based data storage with SHA1 based integrity 
checks and 2 -level user authentication
•Compliant with all relevant standards ( e.g. EMC Directive 
2014/30/EU, IEC/EN 60529 and IEC/EN 61010 IEC/EN 
61000, IEC/EN 60068) (see diagram 1).Sensgear ® Advanced next level of 
our digital portfolio 
The basic Sensgear ® portfolio provides additional remote 
transparency for operators, service and asset management.
Sensgear ® advanced now upgrades this functionality to 
enhance productivity using a digital twin. Moreover, the 
upgrade offers the chance to benefit from advanced
intelligence by using artificial intelligence.
The main features of Sensgear ® Advanced  are as follows:
F-gas reports –just one mouse -click away
SF6as the strongest greenhouse gas and widely used, 
requires special attention. Operators are obliged to 
frequently visit the equipment and report on inventory and 
emissions. Emissions are more and more connected to 
penalties. 
The reporting requirements and costs rise continuously.
Sensgear ® advanced products, such as SF6-gas-insulated 
switchgear (GIS) and SF6-gas-circuit -breakers now offer
an integrated F -gas reporting, providing remote inventory
measurement per gas -compartment, SF6-and CO2emission 
calculation, reporting periods and summaries.
Gas density trending & prediction applying 
artificial intelligence to optimize gas 
monitoring
Conventional trending models require long data history 
(weeks) before performing linear interpolation. Faster and 
more accurate gas trending is achieved by applying neural 
networks to compensate sensor data with regard to weather 
influences. The AI model requires less historical data (days).
Circuit breaker idle time and mechanical
life trending
Electrical switching equipment are designed to withstand a 
specific number of mechanical operations and to operate 
without any faults as long as the mechanical switching 
capacity is not exhausted.
Sensgear ® advanced provides a record of the executed 
mechanical switching operations and calculate the remaining 
mechanical switching capacity (in units and years). The used 
and remaining mechanical switching capacity is shown in an
comprehensive way to enable further decision making.
© Siemens Energy, 2021                    Page 3
Sensgear ® Born connected 
In addition, Sensgear ® advanced keeps track of the circuit 
breaker idle time, provide a status of switching readiness, and 
make a recommendation on when to conduct the next 
switching operation.
Additional features
•Raw data download 
•Runs on desktop and mobile devices
•Notifications 
•Alarms and warnings before it gets critical
Increase power transmission by active
overload management based on digital twins
The grid and operators of the 21stcentury face new 
challenges: fluctuating power generation by renewables and 
increasing and fluctuating electricity demand, require
a grid and products which are flexible to avoid congestions. 
Current and voltage are the key physics to be managed. 
Current causes conductor temperature rise depending on the 
resistance of the material. The limiting factor is the absolute 
temperature of the used materials. 
Therefore, the knowledge and influencing of the material 
temperatures are key.
Mechanical, electrical, and thermal digital twins are used to 
optimize product design, testing, production and operation. 
Until today, those digital twins are not actively used in 
operation. 
Sensgear ® advanced now combines operational data with
the digital twin operation from development, virtual 
operation simulation and factory testing to manage 
congestions actively. This enables grid operators to transmit 
additional power through higher current for a certain period 
of time depending on ambient temperature.The principles of the thermal digital twin are described on the 
example of a GIS: For each GIS -module the original 3D digital 
twin with the respective geometrical, chemical/physical and 
thermodynamic properties is generated. A 3D power loss 
simulation is done for each module and combination of 
modules.
The simulated module combinations are built in real and 
validated in a temperature rise -type test with temperature 
sensors on all critical parts. Additional short time overload 
tests were performed to validate the overload approximation 
of the thermal grid method. The measurement and the 
simulation show high conformance.
Benefits for the grid operators are  higher performance and 
more transmitted power:
•Transparency on thermal 
utilization of the switchgear and 
its modules based on digital 
thermal twin and ambient 
temperature: virtual sensors
•Indication of temporary overload 
current capabilities without 
reducing reliability and lifetime
•More transmitted power through 
temporary overload current
•Prediction of temporary overload 
current capabilities based on 
ambient temperature prediction 
deducted from weather forecast
•Cost reduction potential re -
dispatch
Data handling and security
We fully understand the importance of the ever increasing
cybersecurity requirements. As one of the main founders of 
the Charter of Trust we ensure that we comply with state -of-
the-art security and encryption technologies such as ISO / IEC 
27001. For data transmission to cloud storage, an end -to-end 
encryption is used. Each Sensgear ® product has a unique ID,
which is also used for encryption. The transmission is via 
HTTPS with 256 -bit TSL encryption. 
We also comply with state -of-the-art data handling and 
management guidelines to ensure that data from different 
customers is strictly separated and secured in the cloud.
“We are leveraging the power of a cloud 
platform and data in a substation 
environment. The next step for Sensgear is to 
enhance intelligence with digital twin 
operation. This will allow operators to 
actively overload switchgear, based on real 
and virtual sensor information .”
Dr. Ulf Katschinski, Siemens Energy’s Vice President
of the Switching Products & Systems business unitSensgear ® Born connected 
© Siemens Energy, 2021                    Page 4
Sensgear ® Born connected 
Published by
Siemens Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG
Freyeslebenstraße 1 
91058 Erlangen
Germany 
For more information, please visit our website:
siemens -energy.com/ sensproducts
or contact us:
support.energy@siemens -energy.com 
circuit -breakers@siemens -energy.com 
© Siemens Energy, 2021
Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. 
Subject to changes and errors. The information given in this document only contains general 
descriptions and/or performance features which may not always specifically reflect those described, 
or which may undergo modification in the course of further development of the products. The 
requested performance features are binding only when they are expressly agreed upon in the 
concluded contract. All product designations may be trademarks or product names of Siemens 
Energy Global GmbH & Co. KG or other companies whose use by third parties for their own purposes 
could violate the rights of the owners.
