Eliminating SF6 Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications April 20, 2021 6 min read For the love of nature: Eliminating SF6 by Nils Lindstrand Story Strengthen electrical grids Tens of thousands of times stronger at trapping heat than carbon dioxide, sulfur hexafluoride continues to be used as an insulation gas in switchgears worldwide. But now one Norwegian energy provider is leading a charge to eliminate it. A few years ago it might have been in your running shoes, your window insulation or in your tires: sulfur hexafluoride or SF 6 – the most potent greenhouse gas in the world, with a potential for global warming around 23,500 times greater than carbon dioxide. While manufacturers have since pulled SF 6 from shoes, windows and tires, tons of it are still being used to insulate high-voltage switchgear in substations around the world. In Norway, however, BKK Nett, the country’s second largest power grid owner with 245,000 customers is spearheading a shift to eliminate the gas from their substations. The company became the first to commission a Siemens Energy SF 6 -free gas-insulated switchgear (GIS) that replaces the greenhouse gas with treated air, called “clean air”, a pure mixture of nitrogen and oxygen with zero potential for global warming. “Our interest in SF 6 -free switchgear technology comes from a genuine commitment to sustainability and the practical need to avoid problems in the future,” says Jens Skår, Division Manager at BKK Nett. “Someone has to take the first step.” “ We didn’t want to make a decision today that would embarrass us two years down the line. Jens Skår Division Manager, BKK Nett Curbing environmental impact BKK Nett’s decision came about due to another progressive project to provide renewable energy to cruise ships in Bergen Port. Bergen, the largest city in Western Norway, with colorful wooden houses, islands dotting the North Sea at its coast and massive mountains all around, has become an attraction for cruise ships – ships that would run their diesel engines while docked more or less round the clock to power their electrical systems. As the number of ships increased, the engines generated more and more air pollution; smog formed and lingered around the mountains. The City of Bergen made the decision to invest in their regional power grid so cruise ships could use clean power. To provide the necessary grid infrastructure, BKK Nett had to upgrade its Koengen transformer substation in Bergen from 45-kilovolts to a 132-kilovolts operating level. “When we started the project to rebuild the Koengen transformer substation, we knew of several suppliers developing environmentally-friendly technology,” says Skår, who has been in the energy industry for more than 30 years. “When evaluating all the offers, we stressed environmental impact –  and Siemens Energy came out best.” In the Koengen substation in Bergen, Norway, this gas-insulated switchgear uses vacuum interrupters for switching functions and treated air, known as "clean air", as the insulating medium, eliminating the need for sulfur hexafluoride. Coming sulfur hexafluoride restrictions and penalties With an abundance of natural energy resources and a relatively small population, Norway has one of the most decarbonized power sectors – and ambitious climate targets. “Norway has a green heart,” says Andreas Albert, Senior Project Manager at Siemens Energy , “and we need people with green hearts to get new sustainable technology established in the market.” Albert also points out that, despite initial costs, changing to a new technical solution often saves time and money. BKK Nett already benefits from no longer having to account and report SF 6 at any of their substations using the SF 6 -free GIS, and maintenance will be easier and more cost efficient with only air to consider during servicing. Moreover, “the costs for technology that harms the environment will almost certainly rise,” says Albert. “We anticipate that SF 6 will eventually be banned or burdened by restrictions and penalty fees,” says Jens Skår. “So when making investments in capacity and substations in and around Bergen, we opted to eliminate SF 6 from the equation – because we want to move towards sustainability and,” Skår adds, “we didn’t want to make a decision today that would embarrass us two years down the line.” The installation of an SF6-free GIS in the picturesque town of Bergen is part of a larger plan to bring clean energy to cruise ships docked in Bergen Port. Potential for removing SF6 around the world Today, two of BKK Nett’s substations have been rebuilt with the SF 6 -free GIS, with more to come. In Norway altogether, a total of ten substations are using the new switchgear. But there are still thousands of high-voltage substations around the world using millions of kilograms of SF 6 . As these facilities reach the end of their lifetimes and need rebuilding, or when entirely new facilities are being planned, they could benefit from the new technology. “Why use SF 6 ,” says Albert, “when SF 6 -free switchgear performs the same function and reduces your impact on the environment?” The SF 6 -free GIS, with zero global-warming potential, is a development based on upgraded switching and insulation technology that has long been proven in practice. And thanks to digital technology and the use of more flexible low-power instrument transformers (LPIT) rebuilds like the one in Bergen can be made in the same space as the old equipment. “We managed to make the change in Bergen,” says Skår, “despite having restricted space in our substations. The station has now been in operation for a year, and the experience is what we expected: problem-free.” Over the next years, Siemens Energy will implement their clean air technology at higher voltages as well. “We’re putting a lot of money and effort into this project”, says Albert. “There are safety considerations and technical challenges to handle. But we’ll get there. Green technology is moving forward with increasing speed, and make no mistake, it’s the future.” April 20, 2021 Nils Lindstrand is a business and technology writer based in Stockholm, Sweden. His work has been published in a number of Swedish and international magazines. Combined picture and video credits: Ilja Hendel; Teaser video: Getty images Read more November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey July 18, 2024 8 min read Mastering grid upgrades: the impact of decarbonizing supply chains July 2, 2024 8 min read Investing in grids to accelerate the energy transition March 26, 2024 6 min read Gas turbine plant as guarantor for grid stability See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025