Revamp: Rotor Replacement Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications July 29, 2020 2 min read Reference: Rotor Replacement for more Availability Reference Transform conventional power Keep your turbine safe and available Product line: BBC Steam Turbine Project type: Turbine Revamp Year of completion: 2018 Project Description The customer's paper factory was founded in the 19th century. Currently, way more than 100.000 tons of paper are produced every year. The energy- and process supply needed for paper production is generated by a BBC steam turbine since 1986. After over 20 years of production, several damages to the turbine were detected in 2008. These damages were repaired on site, which led to modifications of the original turbine design. Strategically foresighted for future refurbishments, the actual design of the turbine was documented by 3D scan and laser measurements. In order to increase the availability of the turbine and guarantee operational safety, the customer decided in 2014 to revamp their turbine. Solution Because of the technical expertise, the customer decided in 2014 to invest in state-of-the-art rotor and stator from Siemens to achieve the goal. Based on the data measured in 2008, the components were designed and adapted to the actual turbine design with reverse engineering and manufactured accordingly. The components should be installed during the major overhaul in the summer of 2018. Customer Value After the Revamp project had been successfully completed, the customer was able to increase both the availability and operational safety of his turbine as desired with new rotor and stator parts. In addition, the CO 2 emission of the turbine was minimized by reducing the steam consumption at the same power output. Related links Siemens Energy steam turbines Mods & Ups Siemens Energy myAdvisor.com Read more November 29, 2020 2 min read Reference: More Power and Reliability with a SST-400 revamp September 4, 2020 2 min read Reference: SST-600 Footprint turbine November 22, 2024 2 min read A Field Engineer's Career Journey See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025