I&C Monitors and Advisors Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications I&C Monitors and Advisors Powerful insight and improved visibility for optimized plant performance Today's world is driven by data. To maintain a competitive edge, companies must ensure their data provides powerful insight and market advantages. The control room, the brain of the power plant, is where digital transformation brings new ways to help maximize plant availability, reliability and profitability. Download brochure about I&C Monitors and Advisors PDF (3 MB) Download Unlocking your plant’s potential Big data makes it possible to understand what is happening within a power plant. Massive amounts of data have been generated by these plants for decades, yet it remains largely underutilized. With I&C Monitors and Advisors, part of the Omnivise Digital Services suite we are able to leverage this data to generate insights that can be transformed into tangible action. Optimize and operate your plant Achieve operational transparency with data visualization via interactive dashboards Employ cloud-based analytics with Siemens Energy's industry-leading expertise Access free key performance indicators via our Customer Portal Receive performance and management recommendations from Siemens Energy experts based on site-specific, current and archival data Turning operational data into useful information to improve availability and security for your plant. To operate as efficiently as possible, power generation businesses need to make the true condition of their plant, their assets and every individual component fully transparent and easy to understand. Given the size and complexity of a large plant, this is an extremely difficult requirement. In addition, as human expertise becomes scarcer, more in demand and, therefore, more costly, business leadership needs access to best practice insights and advice, even if they cannot afford to maintain these skills in-house. The Siemens Energy Instrumentation & Controls Monitors and Advisors (ICMA) service adds value to a company’s investment in its DCS by turning high volume, rich data flows into actionable intelligence. We do this by Monitoring data on a 24 hour basis, Analyzing these data against targets and KPIs, and then Advising customers by making recommendations for optimization and remedial actions, according to the scope of work within the agreed service parameters. Download the whitepaper I&C Archive – Reduce Alerts to Increase Efficiencies I&C Archive enables you to work smarter by quickly pinpointing areas of improvement and consolidating alert flooding. With this you can quickly and precisely reduce the alert load by up to 80 %, and with this, the need for manual action. Operators can then focus on critical process alarms. Advanced algorithms identify the root-causes of the most frequent alerts and provide recommendations to reduce them. The result is a clear view of your alert load, as well as defined actions you can take to optimize your alert system. The solution also provides the ability to compare your plant’s alert load key performance indicators to similar type of power plants and fleets. I&C Archive can help, improve efficiency, cut costs, and unlock significant value from your system. Based on Siemens Energy’s best-in-class know-how and experience, site-specific recommendations are displayed, giving you the confidence to make more informed decisions. I&C Condition - Monitor Conditions and Plant Performance to Reduce Downtime I&C Condition helps to ensure preventive maintenance and avoid unscheduled downtime. By monitoring your plant control system equipment, the solution helps ensure components and software remain at peak availability. In a daily health check, live parameters from components are monitored to detect abnormal system behavior and identify weak points. I&C Condition then provides recommendations around maintenance and repair works to enable them to be planned more easily and in time to prevent unscheduled downtime. I&C Condition continuously supports the operator in the decision-making process to keep the system current and up-to-date.  It also detects system and security relevant updates and patches tailored to the monitored system and gives recommendations for actions. I&C Security - Protect Your Plant and Future to Gain Peace-of-Mind Find peace of mind knowing your plant is protected in a world of persistent cyber threats. I&C Security combines cutting-edge technology and Siemens Energy’s legacy of innovation to minimize exposure to potential risks. Regular scans help to ensure your security-relevant software is current and safe. When system deviations are detected, you receive an alert and recommendation on how to potentially address the problem. With I&C Security, you can better respond to security breaches to better protect your endpoints, and thus move faster to detect threats. This proven solution can help protect both your plant and performance. I&C Lifecycle – Overview of Product Lifecycles to Timely Plan Replacement Solutions I&C Lifecycle enables you to timely plan replacement solutions for your I&C components to increase the availability of your plant. It analyzes the component lifecycles, thus providing its status and spare parts availability. With I&C Lifecycle, you will be able to optimize your spare parts management and save valuable time. Weekly e-mail notification services give you the changes of your product lifecycles from active to phase-out or from phase-out to obsolete thus ensuring a reliable plant operation of your products and systems. I&C Process Optimization – Optimization potential for more efficient and stable plant operation with reduced emissions The cloud-based Process Optimization Monitor and Advisor use thermodynamic analysis of flue gas data to indicate optimization potential for efficient and stable plant operation with reduced CO/NOx emission and excess O2. Free dashboards provide a quick overview of plant health and benchmark position. With our premium services, you receive an analysis of your plant data and recommendations for improved operation, for example setpoints as well as the optimization potential. The Data Journey - From Powerful Insight to Profitable Action How can we support you? For your questions or other requests please contact us Contact us Read more 3 min read GKS Schweinfurt, Germany: Optimized plant operation through 1:1 simulation 3 min read Landsvirkjun, Iceland: State-of-the-art controls and electricals for high availability and grid support See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025