Siemens Energy Takes Next Step to Protect Critical Infrastructure Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy Takes Next Step to Protect Critical Infrastructure Press release July 21, 2022 Washington, DC Siemens Energy joins the AWS Partner Network as a Technology Partner to provide customers with industrial cybersecurity, analytics, and storage solutions Siemens Energy’s AI-driven Managed Detection & Response (MDR) solution is a first of a kind security offering available in AWS Marketplace built for energy and utilities, by an integrated energy technology company focused across the entire energy value chain MDR’s monitoring and detection insights provide scalable protection against disruptive cyberattacks in the energy sector using innovative artificial intelligence Company Joins AWS Partner Network to Provide Customers with Industrial Cybersecurity Solution to Ensure Reliable Electricity and Fuel Supplies Siemens Energy Inc, one of the world’s leading energy technology companies, announces it is joining the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Partner Network (APN), a global community of partners that leverage programs, expertise, and resources to build, market, and sell customer offerings. This expanded relationship includes listing Siemens Energy’s Managed Detection and Response (MDR) industrial cyber security solution in AWS Marketplace, a digital catalog that makes it easy for customers to find, compare, and immediately start using the software and services that run on AWS. This MDR security offering in AWS Marketplace is built for energy and utilities, by an integrated energy technology company focused across the entire energy value chain. As energy companies strive to protect physical infrastructure from escalating cyber threats, Siemens Energy’s MDR on AWS reduces the cost and technical barriers to achieving strong, fast, comprehensive cyber defense. Expanding access to state-of-the-art cybersecurity is essential to ensuring reliable electricity and fuel supplies. Cyber risks to infrastructure are escalating amid the ongoing transition toward renewable and low-carbon energy sources and the accompanying expansion of digital devices in the energy sector. Siemens Energy’s MDR will help customers leverage analytics to secure their infrastructure while reducing costs, improving efficacy, and reducing emissions. Siemens Energy’s industrial monitoring and detection solution defends critical infrastructure against cyberattacks, helping protect communities around the world from supply chain disruptions. AWS’s capabilities allow MDR’s technology to quickly collect and analyze large volumes of data to monitor for cyber threats, giving energy sector chief information security officers (CISOs) the power to detect and uncover attacks before they execute. Secure cloud capabilities that can integrate digital applications and leverage sensitive data – such as real-time monitoring and detection – add an important and cost-effective tool to the defensive arsenal for CISOs and industrial security analysts. “The energy transition relies on seamlessly connecting physical assets with digital technologies to foster innovation, reduce emissions, and improve efficiency, but this future depends on strong cybersecurity across the whole supply chain,” said Leo Simonovich, Vice President and Global Head of Industrial Cyber, Siemens Energy. “Siemens Energy’s AI-driven industrial cyber monitoring and detection platform is purpose-built to help CISOs identify, prevent, and mitigate cyber threats to the energy sector’s digital business model. Energy companies at every scale can now access and integrate advanced cyber threat detection across their operating environment, leveraging AWS’s secure cloud platform to build and defend the foundation of a digital energy ecosystem.” “Cloud is accelerating innovation across the energy value chain and a key enabler to more resilient energy infrastructure,” said Jeff Miers, Director of Partners and Alliances, Energy & Utilities Business Unit at AWS. “With the convergence we are seeing across operational technology (OT) and information technology, we are excited to expand our relationship with Siemens Energy through the AWS Partner Network to provide OT cybersecurity solutions purpose built for the energy and utilities market.” Links Siemens Energy Managed Detection & Response Contact Stacia Licona Siemens Energy stacia.licona@siemens-energy.com +1 (281) 721-3402 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (118 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €28.5 billion in fiscal year 2021. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025