From a bird’s-eye view: multi-sensor system and artificial intelligence ensure secure power supply Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications From a bird’s-eye view: multi-sensor system and artificial intelligence ensure secure power supply Press release May 30, 2022 Munich Inspection of approximately 4,000 km of high-voltage power lines Artificial intelligence for automated condition detection CO2 emissions decreased by reducing helicopter flights Digital twin for accelerating digital grid expansion planning The German grid operators Schleswig Holstein Netz AG and Bayernwerk Netz GmbH have commissioned Siemens Energy to inspect almost 4,000 kilometers of high-voltage overhead lines. The inspection will be conducted by a helicopter equipped with a high-tech multi-sensor system using the "SIEAERO" service concept. Developed by Siemens Energy, the system collects all the necessary data during the flight, which can later be evaluated with the help of artificial intelligence and analyzed by other software tools. In the near future, this kind of holistic inspection of overhead power lines can also be performed with large drones. Siemens Energy attaches a multisensor system to the underside of a helicopter to inspect the power lines. As soon as the respective legal situation permits, the inspection of power lines could be carried out using drones instead of helicopters. It’s more environmentally friendly and quieter than a helicopter, and critical locations could be approached in a more targeted manner. A single helicopter flight feeds artificial intelligence For the inspection, Siemens Energy attaches SIEAERO's multi-sensor system to the underside of a helicopter. Equipped with 19 cameras and state-of-the-art 3D laser scanning sensors, it captures all relevant inspection data in a single flight over the power line, resulting in up to 12,000 images and detailed 3D data per kilometer of power line. The SIEAERO’s software, which uses artificial intelligence, can evaluate the images in just a few hours, whereas a human would need a few days. The artificial intelligence was previously trained with over two million images of European and North American grids to automatically detect faults in the images. This allows potential risks like trees growing too close to the line to be detected earlier. During the flights, the surface temperature of the individual components is also measured, among other things. The digital data obtained provides a precise and detailed overview of the condition of the operating equipment, and it can be combined with existing data from the grid for other evaluations. "The use of artificial intelligence is an important advance in the inspection of power lines. The high data quality makes us more precise and more cost-efficient, and it also allows us to conduct the inspection more safely. What's more, with conventional measurement and inspection techniques, the lines would have to be flown over several times to get the same results. Each flight saved over the distance of 4,000 kilometers saves 74 tons of CO2 emissions. This is another way that we’re making an important contribution to the environment, while supporting our customers to maximize the reliability of the transmission grids," says Milena Ramos Subires, Vice President Transmission Service at Siemens Energy. From data mountain to digital twin Every kilometer of line flown generates 300 gigabytes of data. The SIEAERO system uses this data to create a digital twin, a highly accurate image of the network infrastructure being inspected, including poles, lines, terrain, and vegetation. With the digital twin, network operators can simulate extreme events like a tree falling on a line and causing it to fail and take the appropriate preventive measures. To guarantee a continuous power supply during the energy transition, the power grids need to be expanded. With comprehensive 3D models of the grid, the necessary expansion and modification measures can be planned and implemented more quickly. Drone instead of helicopter? In the future, drones could once again significantly simplify and improve the inspection of power lines. Siemens Energy has already successfully performed several test flights with a drone equipped with the SIEAERO system. Using a drone has a number of advantages: It’s more environmentally friendly and quieter than a helicopter, and critical locations could be approached in a more targeted manner. Currently, however, most countries still prohibit the use of unmanned aerial vehicles beyond the visual range. As soon as the legal situation permits in these countries, Siemens Energy will also offer SIEAERO as a drone service. Further information on the transmission network: Roughly 1.8 million kilometers of power lines run like veins through the German energyinfrastructure, ensuring that electricity reaches every socket. The high-voltage lines in thetransmission grid are especially important: They ensure that large amounts of electricity can first betransported quickly over long distances to conurbations, and then the electricity can be distributedto consumers via the lower-voltage networks. Regular checks by grid operators of the high-voltagelines – which in Germany extend over some 37,000 kilometers – are essential to ensuring anuninterrupted supply of electricity. At the same time, the growing share of renewable energies is putting a strain on the grid: A total of more than 7,500 kilometers in the German transmission grid will need to be optimized, reinforced, or newly built in the next few years. Links Further information on SIEAERO Contact Christina Huemmer Siemens Energy christina.huemmer@siemens-energy.com + 49 152 07158923 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (104 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €28.5 billion in fiscal year 2021. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025