Siemens Energy wins contract for first grid stabilization project in Baltic states Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy wins contract for first grid stabilization project in Baltic states Press release December 16, 2020 Erlangen Three synchronous condenser plants to be installed in Estonia Project will help the grid meet the challenges of the energy transition Estonian transmission system operator Elering AS awarded Siemens Energy with a contract to build three synchronous condenser plants in Estonia. It is the first Flexible Alternating Current Transmission System (FACTS) Siemens Energy will install in the Baltic States. The three synchronous condensers will help stabilizing the grid and managing the ongoing integration of renewable energy generation. “While moving forward along our pathway to a greener energy landscape, the grid infrastructure needs to become more resilient, more sustainable, and better equipped to integrate renewable energy sources on a large scale. Grid stabilization projects like the three synchronous condenser plants for Estonia are gaining in importance,” says Beatrix Natter, Executive Vice President Transmission at Siemens Energy. “Our proven technology will help Elering AS boost stability and resilience of the Estonian grid.” Siemens Energy is responsible for design, supply and installation of the three 330 kilovolt (kV) synchronous condenser plants, that will be located at Püssi, Viru and Kiisa in the north of Estonia. By means of its rotating mass the synchronous condensers will provide short-circuit power and inertia for stable operation of the Estonian grid while also providing or absorbing reactive power. Due to the intermittency and volatile nature of renewable energies grid stabilization technologies play an increasingly important role for a successful energy transition. According to Taavi Veskimägi, Chairman of the Management Board of Elering, the synchronous condensers are the primary technical capacity to be operated from Elering’s network control centre in order to ensure the operation of the power system after cut-off from Russia. “Without the inertia provided by this equipment, the hazard for the unexpected shutting off of the power system and leaving consumers without power would be very high. This is a vital investment in order to create the first ‘defensive barrier’ for the power system,” explained Veskimägi. The synchronous condenser solution comprises a horizontal synchronous generator connected to the high-voltage transmission network via a step-up transformer. Each of the three plants will be able to provide the grid with reactive power of 50/+50 mega volt-ampere reactive and up to 1,750 megawatt-seconds of inertia. They will have a short-circuit capability of more than 900 mega volt-ampere. The plants will be commissioned successively between April 2023 and May 2024. For further information on Siemens Energy FACTS please see https://www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/solutions-services/product-offerings/flexible-ac-transmission-systems.html Links Website: Flexible AC Transmission Systems Contact Siemens Energy Media Relations mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025