Natural Gas-Fired Power Plants I Energy Transition Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Gas-fired power plants fuel the energy transition Gas-fired power plants can deliver a fast path to low-carbon energy systems today – plus, they can be fully decarbonized The energy demand is rising. Growing economies, electrification and digitalization are driving the need for more power. At the same time, however, the world needs to respond to climate change. While renewable energy is increasing worldwide, there are still challenges in ensuring affordable, reliable, and sustainable power around the clock. This is where gas-fired power plants, usually operated as natural gas power plants, come in as a key energy transition strategy . Already today, gas-fired power plants generate 23 percent of the world’s electricity, providing essential services for the energy transition. They help replace coal and oil power, with new gas-fired power plants reducing CO2 emissions by up to 65 percent compared to existing coal plants and up to 60 percent compared to oil plants. Whether as peaker plants operating when there is high demand or as combined-cycle power plants (CCPPs) that add a steam turbine to generate up to 50 percent more electricity, gas-fired power plants step in on days with little or no sun or wind, producing much-needed residual load. They also stabilize the grid with their rotating masses, bringing ancillary services and resilience to the grid while supporting the expansion of solar and wind power. Moreover, gas-fired power plants can be fully decarbonized using sustainable fuels like hydrogen or carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS). In short, gas turbines don’t just build a bridge to a decarbonized future – they are part of it. The replacement of a coal-fired plant with a gas-fired combined cycle power plant leads to a reduction of CO2 emissions by 65% Whitepaper: Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines Learn why gas turbines are urgently needed in the future energy landscape.  What sustainable gaseous and liquid fuels are available for gas turbines. And how carbon capture technologies can be combined with gas turbines. Download whitepaper Benefits of natural gas power plants There are several key reasons why natural gas power plants push the energy transition forward. Here are the three most important: Gas-fired power plants enable the coal phase-out, they stabilize grids for further renewable energy expansion, and they come with the potential to be fully decarbonized themselves. 1. Shifting away from coal and oil One of the most effective, fast and cheap ways to reduce CO2 emissions in an economy is to replace coal or oil power with highly efficient natural gas power plants. When displacing an older coal plant, a new natural gas power plant can reduce CO2 emissions by between 60 and 65 percent. This is because natural gas has a lower carbon content than coal (between 45 and 50 percent lower) and today’s CCPPs have a much higher efficiency – 64 percent compared to around 40 percent in the case of older coal-fired power plants. Similar gains are made by replacing older oil-fired power plants: A new CCPP, for example, can reduce CO2 emissions by between 40 and 60 percent, depending on the efficiency of the oil-fired plant being replaced. What’s more, gas-fired power generation also offers greater operational flexibility. Natural gas plants can ramp up and down more quickly than coal plants, making them an ideal complement to intermittent renewable energy sources like wind and solar. As a technology leader in gas turbines, we are the partner of choice for both greenfield power plants and the conversion of existing coal-fired power plants into highly efficient CCPPs. This approach not only reduces CO2 emissions by up to 65 percent, it also reduces capital expenditure (Capex) by up to 30 percent. Since 2010, the switch from coal to gas has already saved around 500 million tons of CO2. This is equivalent to putting an extra 200 million electric vehicles on the road in the same period. Leaving coal behind: Stadtwerke Leipzig, Germany Municipal energy supplier Stadtwerke Leipzig wanted to break away from coal-based power and heat to provide the city with entirely climate-neutral heating by 2038. But they needed a solution flexible enough to offset fluctuations in renewables and quickly respond to changing spot market demands. They opted for a combined heat and power plant with two SGT-800 turbines . Already capable of running on 30 percent hydrogen, the plant’s turbines are pre-equipped for retrofitting, making them 100 percent hydrogen-ready. Operating now on natural gas, they’ll gradually make the switch to hydrogen over the next few years, when the fuel becomes available and competitive. Learn more 2.	Rotating turbine masses enable renewables integration Yes, expanding wind and solar power reduces generation costs and CO2 emissions, but it also comes with two major challenges. They are not available 24/7. And they do not provide grid stability . When there is no wind or sun, natural gas power plants can provide dispatchable power. While demand-side management (DSM) and energy storage solutions such as batteries or pumped hydropower can also reduce residual load demands, they usually only work for a matter of hours. Gas turbines are crucial to covering residual loads for longer periods of time. And eventually gas turbines running on green hydrogen produced from surplus renewable energy will enable a closed loop for deep decarbonization of electricity production . Traditionally, the stability and resilience of our power grids comes from conventional power plants with synchronous generators that supply indispensable grid ancillary services, like inertia, voltage control and provision of short-circuit power. In most cases, renewable energy cannot provide these services, but the rotating masses of turbine generator sets can, adding rotating inertia, stabilizing power grid voltage levels with reactive power, and strengthening the system with short-circuit power. As more large coal-fired power plants are retired, gas-fired plants will need to provide these ancillary grid services. With an optional synchronous condenser mode, generators can remain connected to the grid year-round, even if the gas or steam turbine (in a CCPP) isn’t providing active power. A flywheel can also be added to increase inertia. The more inertia these rotating masses give to the grid, the more renewables can be connected, pushing the boundaries of renewable energy penetration. Keeping it stable: Moneypoint, Ireland Irish energy company ESB wanted to transform the country’s last coal-fired power plant Moneypoint Power Station into a green energy hub for the future, including offshore wind farms and green hydrogen production. The critical first step was the installation of a Siemens Energy synchronous condenser with the world’s largest flywheel . Together they provide essential inertia and reactive power to help integrate renewable energy into Ireland's grid once its coal-fired turbines are shut down. Learn more 3.	Natural gas power plants can be decarbonized While natural gas-fired power plants are a cleaner, better choice than coal plants in terms of emissions, they still run on fossil fuels. This is the case for now, but the industry is setting the stage for a decarbonized future. This can be done either through the use of sustainable fuels or through carbon capture and storage (CCS). For example, green hydrogen produced from renewable energy offers huge potential to decarbonize the power sector. And other forms of sustainable hydrogen, classified by color, such as blue, turquoise or pink hydrogen, to indicate production methods, can help decarbonize residual power with gas turbines. Already today, we make turbines capable of operating on hydrogen as well as hydrogen-ready power plants that are pre-equipped for a later retrofit to 100 percent hydrogen. Other sustainable fuels that could be used in the future include biofuels produced from organic matter or hydrogen derivatives like ammonia or methanol. Alternatively, CCS is increasingly recognized as a method that can help electricity production reach close to net zero. CCS can be paired with gas turbines as well as coal and biomass power plants to remove CO2 emissions from flue gas. With strategic partnerships, we are driving the development of CCS and CCUS technologies to intercept greenhouse gases where they are generated. Local conditions will ultimately determine which decarbonization technology is the most suitable and economical for a given project. Paving the way for hydrogen: Hillabee, US Constellation Energy, the United States’ foremost clean energy producer, achieved a record for hydrogen by co-firing a 38 percent blend of hydrogen with natural gas in an SGT6-6000G gas turbine at their Hillabee power plant in Alabama during a test in the spring of 2023. In a commercial application, this blend rate would reduce the plant’s carbon emissions by approximately 270,000 metric tons annually. Constellation is aiming to achieve 100 percent carbon-free electricity by 2040. Learn more Gas power’s decarbonization in action Gas turbines are a tool for many parts of the energy transition. They’re efficiency giants, especially when used in a CCPP . They have the ability to step in and provide residual power in a system where renewables come first, and they can stabilize the grid with ancillary services provided through the generator or a synchronous condenser. In case of a blackout, gas turbines can quickly restart the grid. And they provide a bridge to a fully decarbonized electricity production with the use of sustainable fuels or CCS technology. Highly efficient gas turbines Our advanced turbines are engineered to deliver exceptional efficiency for natural gas power plants, with world-class fast cold start and hot restart capabilities. Models like the SGT5-9000HL achieve combined cycle efficiencies exceeding 64 percent, significantly reducing fuel consumption and emissions. Explore our gas turbine portfolio CCPPs and CHPs Our CCPPs maximize energy output while minimizing fuel consumption and emissions. They can also cogenerate heat for industrial steam or district heating demand, supporting the global transition to sustainable energy solutions. For instance, the SGT-800 gas turbine is ideal for combined cycle or cogeneration installations with its excellent efficiency and outstanding steam-raising capability. Learn more about our power plant solutions Decarbonization pathways for gas turbines We also provide a roadmap for the decarbonization of our gas turbines. Through the use of sustainable fuels, such as biofuels or hydrogen and its derivatives methanol and ammonia, or by coupling gas-fired power plants with carbon capture solutions that can remove more than 90 percent of a power plant’s CO2 emissions. Learn more about our hydrogen power plants “ Gas turbines aren’t a bridge to a decarbonized energy system – they are an integral part of it. Karim Amin Executive Board Member, Siemens Energy Towards a fully decarbonized power system Our customers operate an existing infrastructure of around 7,400 large gas and steam turbine units – and our fleet continues to grow and evolve. We have best-in-class gas turbines and are technology leaders with our HL-class, F-class, and SGT-800 turbines. With our solutions for gas-fired power, we’re actively steering a path toward a decarbonized future. Get answers: FAQs on gas-fired power plants What is a natural gas power plant? Natural gas power plants use the energy from natural gas combustion to drive turbines and generators that produce electricity. These plants are much cleaner than coal, offering flexible operation and the ability to ramp up quickly, making them key in supporting renewable energy. How does a natural gas power plant work? In the gas turbine of a natural gas power plant, air is compressed, mixed with fuel, and ignited to produce high-energy gases that expand through the expansion turbine. This rotation drives a generator, creating electricity. CCPPs harness the exhaust heat from the gas turbine for steam production, which is used in a separate steam turbine to produce additional electricity, enhancing overall efficiency. What are the types of natural gas power plants? There are three main types of natural gas power plants: simple cycle, combined cycle, and cogeneration. Simple cycle plants use just gas turbines for quick power generation, while combined cycle plants add a water-steam cycle to produce steam from the gas turbine´s hot exhaust and convert it to additional electricity in a steam turbine, increasing efficiency. Cogeneration plants provide both power and heat (steam or hot water) and can be built in either simple or combined cycle configuration. How much does it cost to build a natural gas power plant? The construction cost of a natural gas-fired power plant varies based on factors such as plant type, capacity, technology, location, and project-specific requirements. Is a power generation plant based on natural gas eco-friendly? Natural gas power plants are more eco-friendly than coal or oil power plants since they are much more efficient and emit significantly less carbon dioxide (CO2) and other pollutants like nitrogen oxides (NOx) or particulate matter. Their flexibility allows them to quickly adjust to fluctuations in renewable energy output, providing backup during periods when wind or solar are insufficient. This helps in the transition toward more renewable-dominated energy systems. By using a sustainable fuel such as hydrogen, they can also be fully decarbonized. Are methane emissions from gas-fired power plants an issue? Methane (the main component of natural gas) is a greenhouse gas and unburned emissions need to be avoided. While gas-fired power plants have negligible methane emissions, attention needs to be paid to upstream emissions from gas fields and pipelines. Programs are enacted to minimize these emissions across the natural gas value chain. The switch from coal to natural gas helps to reduce greenhouse gases as coal mines are also significant producers of methane emissions. Have you read? Cooling the way to peak gas turbine performance in Iraq July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition 5 min read Morrow Repower Project, USA: Forward-thinking power generation July 2, 2024 8 min read Investing in grids to accelerate the energy transition June 18, 2024 3 min read Keadby2 Power Station: the future of power generation in the UK Go to story hub Explore our news September 15, 2023 Berlin 250,000 tons less CO2 thanks to renewable hydrogen: Siemens Energy delivers electrolyzers to Normandy May 9, 2023 Munich Fuel cell projects are the “wave” of the future in decarbonizing the maritime sector Go to media hub Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025