SGT-750 Industrial gas turbine Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications SGT-750 gas turbines Flexible, reliable with best-in-class performance With maximized uptime, top-class performance, and a low environmental footprint, the SGT-750 offers you high lifetime profitability. It is a perfect choice for the oil and gas industry as well as for industrial power generation. The SGT-750 is a lightweight industrial gas turbine designed and developed to incorporate the size and weight advantages of the aeroderivative gas turbine while maintaining the robustness, flexibility and longevity of the traditional heavy-duty industrial gas turbine. Explore our interactive gas turbine portfolio template-360-siemens Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us The SGT-750 gas turbine product video A new standard for efficiency, emission and reliability, watch the video. Highlights of the SGT-750 gas turbine Highest efficiency with high power The SGT-750 has the highest efficiency and power in its class combined with Dry Low Emissions (DLE). As a result, you can expect lowest lifecycle operating costs and the best possible return on investment. Even running on part load, the SGT-750 keeps the highest efficiency and at the same time an increased time between overhauls, with guaranteed emissions of 9 ppm NOₓ. Lowest emissions, single-digit NOₓ capability The combustor and burner designs provide you with a world-class emission performance over a wide load range and are capable of single-digit NOₓ emission levels. The SGT-750 can guarantee 9 ppm NOₓ down to a 20% load. Designed to reduce environmental impact, the SGT-750 gas turbine will help you meet even the strictest emission regulations worldwide. Designed for oil and gas, and industrial power generation The SGT-750 is the perfect option for power generation and offers a wide range of solutions, from stand-alone installations to complete power plants, industrial or oil and gas, onshore or offshore. The fast start-up and cycling capabilities support intermediate to continuous operation. Lightweight and compact design allows for quick installation and easy maintenance. Designed for mechanical drive applications We offer a full range of extended scope and turnkey solutions for mechanical drive applications. With decades of experience, we are able to design and implement any application, whatever the requirements are: Compressor applications (e.g., gas injection, gas processing, LNG, FLNG and pipelines) Pump applications (water injection and fluid transmission projects) Outstanding serviceability and maximized uptime The SGT-750 features a specifically service-friendly design: Rollout for 24-hours gas generator swap Easy on-site or off-site maintenance designed for only 14 maintenance days in 17 years All components feature a modular design with best accessibility Easy access for borescope inspection IR cameras for early detection of possible deviations Operational flexibility The SGT-750 offers broad operational flexibility to satisfy your individual, market-specific requirements. With a twin-shaft design and a generic driver, you can use the SGT-750 in power generation or mechanical drive, onshore or offshore. For example: Highest performance at extreme conditions, from arctic to desert conditions, fast start capability, quick load variations like load rejections or instant loading, wide fuel range, roll-and-pitch capability and free power turbine are just some of the operational benefits. Core engine Package solutions Power plants Service Fuels Emissions Ingenious design to the core The SGT-750 gas turbine is designed to meet high demands for efficiency, reliability, uptime, and environmental compatibility. Its features include: A 13-stage axial air compressor with an EB-welded rotor and two variable guide vanes for optimized performance even in extreme conditions. A combustion system with 8 cans and 8 transition ducts, suitable for both liquid and gaseous fuels, designed for ease of maintenance and exchangeability without casing disassembly. A free 2-stage power turbine with a nominal shaft speed of 6,100 rpm, offering flexibility for mechanical drive at speeds ranging from 50 to 105%. Optimization for all ambient conditions, from cold to hot climates. Proven design principles thanks to profound experiences The SGT-750 combines proven technology and state-of-the-art materials. Compact design meets all customer demands The SGT-750 gas turbine is designed as a robust and compact indutrial gas turbine combined with aero engine performance. SGT-750 package The SGT-750 is delivered as a complete package, carefully designed to integrate supporting systems and customized solutions, ensuring a secured return on investment. Its modular build-up allows for swift disassembly and parts replacement, with a 24-hour engine swap time to minimize downtime. All package options are available as single lift and share the same driver for mechanical drive and power generation, enhancing operational reliability. SGT-750 for power generation The SGT-750's fast start-up and cycling capabilities support both intermediate and continuous operation with improved turndown capability. SGT-750 for mechanical drive With its twin-shaft configuration, the SGT-750 is driving compressors or pumps either onshore or offshore. Minimized starting power needed. Offshore: roll and pitch Small footprint due to compact design and highest availability – these are the best prerequisites for offshore applications as FLNG or FPSO. The SGT-750 fires up With maximized uptime, top-class performance, and a low environmental footprint, the SGT-750 industrial gas turbine offers you a high lifetime profitability and is a perfect choice for the oil and gas industry as well as industrial power generation. Fast start-up and cycling capabilities support both intermediate and continuous operation. We offer a wide range of solutions for power generation, from stand-alone installations to complete power plants for industrial and onshore or offshore power generation, and the oil and gas industry. A scope to fit your needs for flexibility Fast start-up and cycling capabilities support you from intermediate to continuous power generation. Excellent combined cycle and combined heat and power efficiency The SGT-750 is your perfect choice for combined cycle power plants for base load, standby power and peak lopping as well as cogeneration applications with heat load and district heating schemes. 14 maintenance days in 17 years Our comprehensive service portfolio ensures low life cycle costs and optimal performance throughout the SGT-750's life cycle: Long Term Programs (LTP) overhaul service field service spare parts service exchange remote diagnostic service modernization and upgrades Serviceability and maximizing uptime were top priorities during the SGT-750's development. The SGT-750 offers the highest operational availability with 68,000 equivalent operating hours (EOHs) to first major overhaul and a service plan requiring only 14 maintenance days in 17 years. Planned service can be executed on-site or off-site without the need for special workshops, and the time between overhauls can be easily extended when operating on lower loads. Additionally, all SGT-750 models are monitored with infrared cameras during scheduled inspections and engine delivery tests. Easy on-site maintenance The enclosure is equipped with a traveling overhead crane allowing for easy offloading or loading on a truck. Off-site maintenance with 24-hour core swap capability For maximized availability, the gas generator can be swapped in less than 24 hours. It can be rolled out with standard maintenance tools. Maximum fuel capability with minimum environmental impact The fourth-generation DLE burner allows for excellent fuel flexibility. Your SGT-750 will operate on gases with high content of inert gases, hydrogen or heavy hydrocarbons as required, without any impact on maintenance or emission levels. The engine is capable to burn up to 40 vol% of hydrogen (H2). The SGT-750 offers dual-fuel capability for all applications. It is designed to meet your individual operating criteria, including a reliable start, and changeover between fuels. The automatic changeover from gaseous to liquid fuel, and back again, can be executed at any load. Can combustors with DLE burners Dry low emission technology allows for maximum fuel flexibility. Dual-fuel capability The SGT-750 has dual-fuel and on-load fuel changeover capabilities. Emissions as low as 9 ppm NOₓ – down to 20% load The SGT-750 is equipped with a fourth-generation Dry Low Emissions (DLE) system for clean combustion over a wide load range, ensuring a small environmental footprint. With this gas turbine you will comply with both global and regional regulations. The absence of burner staging allows for rapid load changes and the system is suitable for both liquid and gaseous fuels. The design gives a world-class emission performance over a wide load range with single-digit NOₓ capability. DLE burners for single-digit emissions Emission requirements are meeting operational criteria including flexible fuel operation and reliable starting. State-of-the-art combustion technology Can combustors with double skin-cooled design are suitable for both liquid and gaseous fuels. Technical data Simple cycle power generation Combined cycle power generation Mechanical drive Physical dimensions Performance data for simple cycle power generation The SGT-750 can be configured to any power rating from 38.9 to 41.1 MW. Gross power output 41.1 MW(e) 38.9 MW(e) Fuel¹ Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Frequency 50/60 Hz 50/60 Hz Gross efficiency 40.5% 40.3% Gross heat rate 8,884 kJ/kWh (8420 Btu/kWh) 8,933 kJ/kWh (8467 Btu/kWh) Turbine speed 6,100 rpm 6,100 rpm Pressure ratio 25.6 : 1 24.9 : 1 Exhaust mass flow 118.0 kg/s(260,4 lb/s) 116 kg/s(255,7 lb/s) Exhaust temperature 468 °C (874 °F) 457 °C (855 °F) NOₓ emissions² < 9 ppmvd < 7 ppmvd All performance values are based on standard design, ISO ambient conditions and natural gas fuel. No intake or exhaust loss. | ¹Natural gas, other gases within specification, liquid fuel (Diesel No. 2) and dual fuel (gas and liquid) | ²NOₓ emissions at 15% O₂ on fuel gas (with DLE) SCC-750: Performance data for combined cycle power plant SCC-750 1x1 SCC-750 2x1 Gross power output 53.9 MW(e) 108.1 MW(e) Gross plant efficiency 54.1% 54.3% Gross heat rate 6,656 kJ/kWh (6,309 Btu/kWh) 6,633 kJ/kWh (6,287 Btu/kWh) Number of gas turbines 1 2 All combined cycle performance is based on 2 pressure, no reheat. Performance data for mechanical drive The SGT-750 can be configured to any power rating from 40 to 42.2 MW. Gross power output 42.2 MW 40.0 MW Fuel¹ Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Natural gas, liquid fuel, dual fuel Gross efficiency 41.7% 41.5% Gross heat rate 8,642 kJ/kWh (8191 Btu/kWh) 8,681 kJ/kWh (8510 Btu/kWh) Drive shaft speed 3050-6405 rpm 3050-6405 rpm Pressure ratio 25.6 : 1 24.9 : 1 Exhaust mass flow 118.1 kg/s(260,4 lb/s) 116 kg/s(255,7 lb/s) Exhaust temperature 468 °C (874 °F) 457 °C (855 °F) NOₓ emissions² < 9 ppmvd < 7 ppmvd Maintenance interval (TBO) 30 kOH / 60 kOH 36 kOH / 68 kOH All performance values are based on standard design, ISO ambient conditions and natural gas fuel. No intake or exhaust loss. | ¹Natural gas, other gases within specification, liquid fuel (Diesel No. 2) and dual fuel (gas and liquid) | ²NOₓ emissions at 15% O₂ on fuel gas (with DLE) Physical dimensions and weight Power generation package Mechanical drive package Approx. weight 175,000 kg (385,809 lb) 76,000 kg (167,551 lb) Length 20.3 m (66.6 ft) 12.8 m (40.4 ft) Width 4.8 m (15.8 ft) 4.3 m (14.1 ft) Height 4.1 m (13.5 ft) 4.1 m (13.5 ft) The above dimensions exclude inlet filter housing and exhaust stack. For power generation, an AC generator is included. For mechanical drive, driven equipment is excluded. The SGT-750 is suitable for the following applications and industries: Find out more about our gas turbine offerings Find brochures, technical papers and more in our download section, or contact us directly for specific inquiries Gas turbine portfolio (interactive PDF) PDF (18 MB) Download SGT–750 poster PDF (463 KB) Download Gastech News LNG article PDF (153 KB) Download Satisfied customers worldwide: SGT-750 reference highlights The SGT-750 has a track record of proven and verified results after years in operation and satisfied customers in both power generation and mechanical drive applications such as pipeline and liquefied natural gas (LNG). Johan Castberg,  Norway (2025) Customer: Equinor Scope: 1 x SGT-750 gas turbine and two DATUM compressors Floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel located in Barents Sea Read more Petromidia, Romania (2023) Customer: Rompetrol Rafinare S.A Scope: 2 x SGT-750, outdoor package CHP plant for refinery, supply power (70 Mwe) and heat (190 MWth) Read more Encana Pipestone, Canada (2020) Customer: Encana Corporation Scope: 1 x SGT-750 Gas Turbine + Tandem DATUM Compressors with Gearbox and WHRU First North American SGT-750 gas processing plant application Read more El Encino, La Laguna, Mexico (2020) Customer: Comision Federal de Electridad Scope: 1 x SGT-750 gas turbine and STC-SV compressor Pipeline compression station Kaltex Altamira, Mexico (2014) Customer: Energia MK KF, S.A. de C.V. (Grupo Kaltex) Scope: 1 x SGT-750 gas turbine Cogeneration plant to produce own electricity and steam for the textile industry Greifswald Wingas, Germany (2013) Customer: WINGAS GmbH / E.ON Energy Projects GmbH Scope: 1 x SGT-750 gas turbine, automation & control for landfall station Electricity generated: 38 MW Do you have a question regarding our products, solutions and services? Contact us Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025