World’s first large-scale direct air capture plant to use Siemens Energy equipment Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications World’s first large-scale direct air capture plant to use Siemens Energy equipment Press release March 6, 2023 Houston, TX Siemens Energy compressors will be used at Occidental’s first large-scale Direct Air Capture (DAC) plant in Texas’ Permian Basin developed by 1PointFive, a subsidiary of Occidental. The two compressor packages will enable the plant to capture up to 500,000 metric tons of CO2 per year when fully operational. The announcement was made today by Siemens Energy President and CEO Christian Bruch and Occidental President and CEO Vicki Hollub at the 41st annual CERAWeek energy conference hosted in Houston, TX, USA. Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven 13,000 horsepower (hp) fully modular wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven 8,500 hp dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. The equipment will compress the captured CO2 for additional processing and pressurize the final product into a pipeline for injection into underground reservoirs. 1PointFive’s plant is expected to provide practical solutions that hard-to-decarbonize industries can use to help achieve net zero. Captured carbon dioxide can be safely sequestered deep underground in saline formations or used to produce hydrocarbons to enable lower-carbon or net-zero transportation fuels and in products like chemicals and building materials. Siemens Energy President and CEO Christian Bruch commented on the collaboration saying, “We are honored to be part of such an important project. Technologies to effectively capture and sequester CO2 will be a necessity if we want to achieve our climate goals. Close partnerships with partners like Occidental are the base to scale up innovative solutions.” “We are leveraging Oxy’s core competence in carbon management to capture and sequester atmospheric carbon dioxide to help meet the goals of the Paris Agreement and reduce emissions globally,” said Vicki Hollub, President and CEO, Occidental. “Our first Direct Air Capture plant will advance industrial-scale carbon capture to provide a solution to help Oxy and others accelerate their respective paths to net zero.” Policy incentives, such as the Inflation Reduction Act, are accelerating DAC technology as a climate solution to help organizations reduce their CO2 emissions. Forward-Looking Statements This news release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including those relating to Occidental’s and its subsidiaries' deployment and use of DAC technology, which are based on Occidental’s current expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates, and forecasts. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements for purposes of federal and state securities laws. Words such as “will,” “may,” “expect,” “plan,” or similar expressions that convey the prospective nature of events or outcomes are generally indicative of forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this news release. Unless legally required, Occidental does not undertake any obligation to update, modify, or withdraw any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. These statements are not guarantees of future performance as they involve assumptions that may prove to be incorrect and risks and uncertainties, including those that are beyond Occidental’s control. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements include Occidental’s ability to access necessary technology, to develop and employ existing or new technology on a commercial scale, to access capital, to collaborate with third parties and customers, and to receive approvals from regulatory bodies, as well as market conditions, geopolitical events, and scientific developments. Additional factors that may affect Occidental’s and its subsidiaries' ability to deploy DAC technology can be found in Occidental’s public disclosure and its filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which may be accessed at Occidental’s website at oxy.com or the SEC’s website at sec.gov. Information included herein is not necessarily material to an investor in Occidental’s securities. Contact Jake Rubin Siemens Energy jake.rubin@siemens-energy.com (202) 227-0321 Contact Eric Moses Oxy eric_moses@oxy.com (713) 497-2017 Contact Neil Backhouse Oxy neil_backhouse@oxy.com (713) 366-5604 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (210 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 92,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €29 billion in fiscal year 2022. www.siemens-energy.com . Occidental is an international energy company with assets primarily in the United States, the Middle East, and North Africa. We are one of the largest oil producers in the U.S., including a leading producer in the Permian and DJ basins, and offshore Gulf of Mexico. Our midstream and marketing segment provides flow assurance and maximizes the value of our oil and gas. Our chemical subsidiary OxyChem manufactures the building blocks for life-enhancing products. Our Oxy Low Carbon Ventures subsidiary is advancing leading-edge technologies and business solutions that economically grow our business while reducing emissions. We are committed to using our global leadership in carbon management to advance a lower-carbon world. Visit oxy.com for more information. Read more Read less Read more February 14, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy addresses the shortage of U.S. power transformers and invests in new factory March 16, 2023 Berlin Bringing wind energy to homes – for tomorrow's greener generation December 15, 2022 Berlin How the U.S. energy transition is rewriting the history of electricity August 23, 2022 Berlin Siemens Energy and Duke Energy’s gas power plant achieves GUINNESS WORLD RECORDS™ title See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025