Sensformer and cyber security Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications May 21, 2019 3 min read Sensformer® and cyber security Reference Strengthen electrical grids The Sensformer® IoT device allows key transformer data such as oil temperature, oil level and inductor current to be securely sent to a cloud service with the help of automatic registration and cryptographically secured communication between the device and the cloud service. The challenge of secure registration and data transfer Sensformer® is a new product class of connected transformers. Sensors installed on the transformer measure key performance data such as oil level, oil temperature and inductor current. The data can then be transmitted from the Sensformer® IoT device on the transformer to Siemens Energy’s cloud service where it can be visualized and evaluated via dashboards or correlated with environmental data such as weather information. The transmitted data can be used to optimize operation and act as an eye to the grid for the transmission grid operator. When dealing with this kind of sensitive data, cyber security is of utmost importance. While the registration of the Sensformer® IoT devices with the cloud service needs to be user-friendly, it must be ensured that the transfer of customer data from the Sensformer® IoT device to the cloud service is secure at all times. Encrypted TLS connection As one of the main founders of the Charter of Trust initiative, cyber security is fundamental for Siemens Energy. In order to securely connect Sensformer® IoT devices to the cloud service, the devices are equipped with device specific private keys and corresponding certificates during production. These certificates are issued by Siemens Energy’s Product PKI Services, which are hosted in Siemens Energy’s highly secure Trust Center. Streamlined processes ensure that the issued certificates, which confirm that the device is a specific Siemens Energy device with a dedicated serial number, are provided to the correct devices. The device’s private key is used for client authentication when establishing a secure TLS (Transport Layer Security) connection between the Sensformer® IoT device and the cloud service. In addition, it’s possible to automatically register the devices at the cloud service. After successful registration and client authentication with the device’s private key, communication between device and Siemens Energy cloud service is TLS protected and can therefore be neither spoofed nor modified during transmission. A high level of security for Sensformer® customers Solution design allows automatic registration of Sensformer® IoT devices with the cloud solution. The registration process is cryptographically protected by key material that is securely introduced into devices as part of the production process. The certificates for the utilized public key based mechanisms are issued by Siemens Energy’s Product PKI Services which are securely operated in the Siemens Energy Trust Center. After authentication with device specific keys communication between devices and cloud infrastructure is TLS protected which ensures confidentiality and integrity of transmitted data. „The Sensformer® is the next generation transformer portfolio, which comes born connected and only needs to be registered by the operator. As a trusted partner to the industry for decades, we place a strong emphasis on providing robust cyber security to protect our customer’s data“, Dr. Beatrix Natter, CEO of Siemens Energy Transmission Products. Siemens Energy Transmission Products Transmission products play a vital role in the energy value chain. Siemens Energy Transmission Products offers all key elements including power transformers, gas-insulated and / or air-insulated switchgear and components, individually or bundled, with related engineering. With our global factory network and leading innovations we provide the highest level of quality and reliability to support our customers in achieving their objectives. Read more 3 min read Naturgy, Spain: Monitoring and controls for renewables with SCADA 3 min read Uniper, UK: Repurposing retired generators to provide essential grid stability services July 24, 2024 5 min read North Sea’s blueprint for the energy transition July 2, 2024 8 min read Investing in grids to accelerate the energy transition See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025