Siemens Energy invests in new digital platform for on-demand additive manufacturing services Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy invests in new digital platform for on-demand additive manufacturing services Press release March 1, 2022 Munich Joint venture with ZEISS and financial/venture capital investors Extended use of on-demand additive manufacturing for prototypes as along with a spare-part supply Additive manufacturing (AM) has taken on a major role in the development and production of components and spare parts for Siemens Energy in recent years. In addition to setting up its own AM production lines and acquiring AM service provider Materials Solutions in 2016, the company is now expanding its commitment in this area with its investment in the start-up MakerVerse. MakerVerse is a joint venture initiative between industry-leaders Siemens Energy, ZEISS, and financial/venture capital investors, including 9.5 ventures. The new company combines cutting-edge industry expertise with profound knowledge in digital venture-building. The new venture is creating a one-stop fulfillment platform that connects industrial clients with a global network of certified additive manufacturing suppliers for projects like design prototypes and producing on-demand spare parts. MakerVerse covers the full technological service spectrum, starting with core 3D printing/additive manufacturing technologies in the initial launch phase and expanding into further relevant on-demand technologies such as CNC and injection molding in the near future. The platform offers features including instant quoting, automated manufacturability checks, streamlined supplier and quality management, and industrial-level quality assurance. MakerVerse will be based in Berlin, with its initial focus on the European market. The public launch of the platform is planned for early mid-2022. Siemens Energy has one the of the largest fleets of metal additive manufacturing printers worldwide and is in full serial production of dedicated gas turbine parts: for example, combustion components and turbine vanes. Additive manufacturing is also used to repair highly complex and stressed turbine blades and burner tips and to accelerate a variety of development programs. Siemens Energy’s AM facilities in Berlin (Germany) and Finspang (Sweden) and the Materials Solutions branches in Worcester (UK) and Orlando (U.S.) are primarily using laser-power bed fusion technology (L-PBF). Siemens Energy is also constantly looking for new methods and new partners to optimize its supply chains of spart parts and specialized tooling for its customer base. This is how an industrial-scale digital platform like MakerVerse can help extend the range of additively manufactured parts to new technologies and materials like polymers. The goal of reducing inventories while ensuring fast deliveries is another driver for investing in new digital supply chains. Links Further information on Siemens Energy’s AM services Contact Sabine Sill Siemens Energy sabine.sill@siemens-energy.com +49 173 7196 783 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (97 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs around 91,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of €28.5 billion in fiscal year 2021. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025