AM Projects at Werner-von-Siemens-Centre Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications AM projects at the Werner-von-Siemens Centre for Industry & Science Focussing on change in production technology Two new AM research projects, High Temperature Applications (HTA) 2.0 and Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) 2.0, have been officially kicked-off in summer 2020 and, besides all odds of the pandemic crisis, are successfully reporting the first milestones already. Project goals The R&D projects address key developments on AM for new designs of gas turbine components and hybrid blade repair. HTA Phase II Aim of the research project: Development of new additive manufacturing processes and components for high-temperature components in large gas turbines, taking into account sustainable product development. Scope The technology fields of the project include various additive processes and materials, as an extension of the 1st phase, as well as the consideration of the efficient post-processing of AM components, e.g., robot-supported. The developed Design for Additive Manufacturing method will also be supplemented by the other AM processes and integrated into a software environment. In addition, there is a strong focus on sustainable manufacturing, whereby ecological aspects, in terms of life cycle analyses, are considered as early as the design of the components and along the value chain up to their use, thus guiding decisions for future components in the field of energy supply. Learn more MRO Phase II Phase II continues to be focused on "Upgrade instead of classic repair" and aims to completely connect the digitized process steps developed in phase I in order to optimize the gas turbine refurbishment process chain and offer our customers tailor-made solutions. Phase II also focuses on human-machine interaction and the sustainability of our powder and sourcing routes. In the area of additive manufacturing, we are now focusing on the automatic repair of large turbine blades using robot-assisted Wire Arc AM (WAAM). Learn more High-Temperature Application HTA 2.0 has the focus on new designs, material qualification and L-PBF processes for highly efficient turbine components and is supported by eight partners from R&D and Small and Medium Enterprises from the German Berlin and Brandenburg area. Learn more Maintenance, Repair & Overhaul MRO 2.0 focusses on upgrade instead of classical repair. By combining standardized manufacturing with state-of-the-art technologies such as AM, advanced simulation tools for new materials and digitization (e.g. digital twin), we are able to digitize and automate production and to offer customers tailored solutions with increased value. Learn more The projects are funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025