Leipzig Süd Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications 3 min read Leipziger Stadtwerke, Germany: 100% hydrogen-ready CHP plant Gas turbines Combined heat and power Leipziger Stadtwerke is leading the way to decarbonize district heating and power supply with its 100% hydrogen-ready Leipzig Süd combined heat and power plant. Contact us Facts & figures - watch the video: Customer challenge: Break away from coal and embrace renewable energy As part of the city's objective to offer climate-neutral heating solutions by 2038, Leipziger Stadtwerke wanted to transform its Leipzig Süd district heating facility. The transition involved moving away from lignite-based power and heat production and embracing carbon-neutral energy sources. Simultaneously, the facility had to exhibit great flexibility in order to counterbalance the fluctuation of renewable energy and respond promptly to the changing demands of the spot market. The solution: Step-by-step decarbonization by building 100% hydrogen readiness The newly built Leipzig Süd district heat and power station has everything needed to provide Leipzig's residents with cleaner heat and power. Equipped with two Siemens Energy SGT-800 gas turbine packages , the plant is fully capable of running on hydrogen. Our FlexLTP service program will ensure the reliable operation of the gas turbines at flexible maintenance intervals. Our scope of supply also comprises SIESTART battery energy storage systems for blackstart support, as well as transformers and ancillary systems. The plant is currently operating on natural gas and then gradually switching to hydrogen beginning in 2025. Learn more about the SGT-800 gas turbine Siemens Energy is the first company worldwide to receive the TÜV certification for its “H2-Ready” power plant concept for the SGT-800 gas turbine. SGT-800 gas turbine The benefits: cleaner heat and power at increased fuel efficiency The hydrogen-ready power plant utilizes advanced gas turbine technology, offering a climate-neutral fuel solution. Moreover, its efficient CHP configuration achieves 94% fuel utilization with a capacity to generate 125MW electrical power and 163MW thermal power. With its extremely low emissions, Leipzig Süd is one of the cleanest power stations in the world. In addition, a thermal storage tank decouples heat and power production from heat demand to maximize revenue streams. Moreover, the plant can reach its full generation capacity in just 15 minutes. This ability to quickly respond to grid fluctuations can improve its competitiveness on the spot market and aid in balancing the grid. About Leipziger Stadtwerke Leipziger Stadtwerke is a municipal energy supply company in Central Germany. The company promotes an environmentally friendly energy production system: it produces electricity and heat using efficient combined heat and power systems , like its gas and steam turbines or biomass power plants, as well as wind power and photovoltaics. Contact us Read more January 28, 2025 2 min read “Jump in with both feet“ – in manufacturing career January 19, 2025 8 min read From coal to gas, from gas to hydrogen 5 min read Morrow Repower Project, USA: Forward-thinking power generation March 26, 2024 6 min read Gas turbine plant as guarantor for grid stability See all stories Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025