Siemens Energy to power Saudi housing megaproject Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens Energy to power Saudi housing megaproject Press release June 29, 2021 Riyadh Siemens Energy to supply reliable power to community of more than 30,000 homes in Saudi Arabia’s capital city Riyadh One of the largest transmission contracts in the country Siemens Energy will strengthen the transmission network in Saudi Arabia’s capital, Riyadh, bringing power to more than 30,000 homes in ROSHN’s first residential community in Riyadh, which spans across 20 million square meters. The Kingdom’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) officially launched ROSHN as one of its four megaprojects in 2020 with the aim of developing communities in major cities across the Kingdom, to increase the rate of Saudi home ownership to 70%, and support job creation as per Vision 2030. ROSHN’s Riyadh community will comprise of mosques, shops, cafes, parks, schools, and leisure and entertainment facilities. It is the first of many communities to be developed by ROSHN. “This contract will enable Siemens Energy to create more jobs for Saudi talents and will provide homes to meet the needs of Saudi families. One of our main values as Siemens Energy is to care for the communities where we live and so it is an honor for us to be able to contribute to such a great project,” said Mahmoud Sulaimani, Managing Director of Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia. The grid project will boost transmission capacity and feed power to the new integrated urban community project. Siemens Energy will provide engineering, supply, construction, installation, and commissioning of grid stations which connect the residential community to the Saudi National Grid. “Siemens Energy will help deliver electricity to this sustainable urban community, ensuring the safety, reliability and security of the power supplies to resident and visitors,” said Mahmoud Hanafy, Vice President, Grid Stabilization, Middle East. “The project reiterates our commitment to enable more resilient, reliable and greener power grids.” Siemens Energy will break ground on the project in July. Work is expected to be energized by May 2023 and completed by August 2023. Due to the rapidly accelerating development plans, Saudi Arabia is emerging as one of the largest markets worldwide for power transmission and grid projects. The government is committed to invest in new infrastructure projects. Today, almost 30 percent of the power transmitted in the Kingdom relies on Siemens Energy’s technology. Contact Asma Alsharif Siemens Energy asma.alsharif@siemens-energy.com +966567635359 Download Press Release PDF Download (EN) PDF (98 KB) Download PDF Download (AR) PDF (289 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Read more March 12, 2025 Dammam Siemens Energy secures USD 1.6 billion project to advance Saudi Arabia’s energy transition with new power plants June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply April 2, 2024 Dubai Siemens Energy appoints Dietmar Siersdorfer Managing Director of Africa June 28, 2021 Cairo Egypt’s First Graduates of the Trainer Incubator Programme (TIP) Ready to Enter Workforce See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025