Gas turbines from Siemens Energy are providing Leipzig with a climate neutral power supply Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Gas turbines from Siemens Energy are providing Leipzig with a climate neutral power supply Press release November 19, 2020 Munich Stadtwerke Leipzig receives two cutting-edge gas turbine packages New district heating power plant has a fuel efficiency of 93 percent Goal to operate with up to 100 percent hydrogen in the long term Siemens Energy is supplying two cutting-edge gas turbine packages for the Leipzig Süd district heating power plant in Germany. The new plant will contribute to the decarbonization of the power supply in two ways: First, the investment will make Stadtwerke Leipzig independent of district heat from the Lippendorf lignite-fired power plant. Secondly, the plant is expected to operate with 30 to 50 percent green hydrogen only a few years after start of commercial operation. The long-term goal is to operate the facility with 100 percent hydrogen. Commissioning is scheduled for the end of 2022. Siemens Energy has the long-term target to increase the hydrogen firing capability of its SGT-800 gas turbine up to 100 percent. The new gas power plant with combined heat and power technology will be built on Stadtwerke Leipzig’s existing site on Bornaische Strasse and produce electricity and district heat for the city. It will have an electrical capacity of approximately 125 megawatts (MW) and a thermal capacity of around 163 MW. The plant’s maximum fuel efficiency will be 93 percent, thanks to the district heat production. The order from Stadtwerke Leipzig covers the supply of two SGT-800 gas turbines, each with a maximum efficiency of 41 percent. The turbines are expected to be fired with natural gas, starting in late 2022, and be successively converted to the combustion of ever greater proportions of hydrogen. The long-term goal is to operate the plant with 100 percent green hydrogen, which can be produced from wind or solar energy by electrolysis. This will permit completely CO 2-free and climate-neutral plant operation. “By investing in a new cutting-edge district heating power plant, we’re not only ensuring that the City of Leipzig will be supplied with electricity and heat in the coming decades,” said Karsten Rogall, Managing Director of Stadtwerke Leipzig. “We are also getting ready to actively pursue decarbonization. The ability to flexibly increase the share of hydrogen in the fuel is an excellent prerequisite for a sustainable and reliable power supply for Leipzig.” “Our SGT-800 not only achieves the lowest emissions in its class, it is also outstanding with its high fuel flexibility and lower lifecycle costs,” said Karim Amin, Executive Vice President of Generation at Siemens Energy. “We’re pleased to be working with Stadtwerke Leipzig to further promote thetransition towards a new level of decarbonized energy mix in Germany.” Siemens Energy will provide two SGT-800 gas turbine packages, including two SGen-100A generators. The scope of supply includes a SIESTART battery solution, which ensures that the plant can perform a black start. As a result, the power plant can start up on its own without an external power supply in the unlikely event of a widespread blackout. Siemens Energy will also install and commission the equipment. More information about Siemens Energy can be found at: https://www.siemens-energy.com/en/company/about.html More information about combined heat and power can be found at: www.siemens.com/chp Contact Kerstin Schirmer Siemens Energy Freyeslebenstr. 1 91058 Erlangen Germany kerstin.schirmer @siemens.com +49 172 2669588 Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (214 KB) Download Siemens Energy is one of the world’s leading energy technology companies. The company works with its customers and partners on energy systems for the future, thus supporting the transition to a more sustainable world. With its portfolio of products, solutions and services, Siemens Energy covers almost the entire energy value chain – from power generation and transmission to storage. The portfolio includes conventional and renewable energy technology, such as gas and steam turbines, hybrid power plants operated with hydrogen, and power generators and transformers. More than 50 percent of the portfolio has already been decarbonized. A majority stake in the listed company Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy (SGRE) makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable energies. An estimated one-sixth of the electricity generated worldwide is based on technologies from Siemens Energy. Siemens Energy employs more than 90,000 people worldwide in more than 90 countries and generated revenue of around €27.5 billion in fiscal year 2020. www.siemens-energy.com. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025