Plant Software as a Service (Plant-Saas) Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Plant Software as a Service (Plant-SaaS) Revolutionize your plant engineering with Siemens Energy Plant-SaaS - the game-changing engineering solution designed to reduce complexity, minimize time-to-market and optimize asset value. Plant-SaaS augments the established engineering software COMOS by integrating process industry-specific content and workflows, allowing you to focus on the most valuable parts of your engineering, without the need for time-consuming customization. Additional software modules for scoping and costing as well as 3D visualization complete the Plant-SaaS environment. The software as a service approach makes it easy to scale according to need in each project phase and the software comes fully maintained . Subscribe to Plant-SaaS to benefit from Siemens Energy’s extensive engineering expertise and years of experience in applying standards like KKS and RDS-PP in your new energy and process industries. Rely on our experts to train your teams and contractors , ensuring optimal utilization of your engineering capabilities. Invite your equipment and solution providers to work directly in your Plant-SaaS environment, significantly reduce handover costs and create a living, as-built engineering twin of your plant . This strategic asset, as valuable as the physical plant itself, will build the ideal foundation to enable your growth journey. Sign up for free trial What can Plant-SaaS do for you? COMOS and Walkinside are powerful engineering and visualization tools, but it takes big efforts to customize them to the industry needs. That is why we as Siemens Energy created Plant-SaaS, an engineering environment that is ready-to-use for process industries and power-to-x and includes workflows that will save you precious time. Watch the demo video or schedule a meeting via the form below to see for yourself. Contact us for live demo! Who benefits from Plant-SaaS? Project developers Let contractors and EPCs work on your  Plant-SaaS environement and keep your knowledge in house Owner / Operators Enjoy easy commissioning and lifelong data access to enable mobile worker solutions, CMMS and asset integrity management. EPCs Use our fully maintained engineering solution and focus on valuable engineering. Save time and cost with predefined, reusable work-breakdown-structures. Discover key benefits of our integrated engineering solution Asset management Lifelong access to all plant information as digital information Evaluation and optimizing asset value Project collaboration tools Scoping and costing management Integrated engineering: process flow diagrams (PFD), process and instrumentation diagrams (P&ID) electrical instrumentation and control (E&IC), software and hardware configuration for distributed control system (DCS) Globally distributed collaboration Building information modelling (BIM) – ready All documents and reports in one system: bill of materials (BOM), maturity reports, project status, health reports, quality reports, loop diagrams, cable lists, cable drum reports, cabinet layout drawings, wiring diagrams, terminal diagrams, connection diagrams, bus / network diagrams, hook-up drawings, data sheets, assembly plan, power consumption, signal lists, switchgears, etc. 3D virtual construction Education and training 3D virtual training Scalable solution Easy to fit to actual needs Ready-to-use templates Guided engineering workflows Multi-user engineering fully trackable with working layers Cloud hosted, scalable and maintained Training, support, and engineering services easily available Pre-configured solution Re-use/multiplication of plant engineering Equipment catalog prepared for ISO 10628-2 and IEC 62424-compliant P&ID engineering and IEC 60617-DB-compliant E&IC engineering Standards: Kraftwerk-Kennzeichensystem (KKS) and reference designation system for power plants (RDS-PP VGB-S-823) PCS 7 libraries Rulebased working with functional module types (FMT), control module types (CMT) and equipment module types (EMT) Interlock matrix System control diagrams (SCD) compliant with IEC 63131 Operation Faster commissioning and easy factory acceptance test (FAT) Engineering data twin Mobile worker ready Contact us for more! We love to transform the industry Startups looking to scale up to become full-grown project developers like Liquid Wind choose Plant-Saas as their engineering platform for a reason. Liquid Wind is a leading developer of eFuel facilities with a vision to reduce the world’s dependency on fossil fuels. The company plans to deliver more than 10 eFuel facilities in the Nordics by 2027. “Plant-Saas is removing obstacles in engineering and enables us to focus on our mission to develop multiple eMethanol plants and help the shipping industry to transition to a sustainable future” - Benny Mai, CTO at Liquid Wind Get a 30-day free trial Contact us via the form below to apply for a 30-day free trial! Contact us! How can we support you? For your questions, demo trial or other request please contact us via E-mail Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025