Siemens supports Berlin with climate-friendly energy supply Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens supports Berlin with climate-friendly energy supply Press release June 3, 2020 Munich Electricity and district heating for eastern part of the capital city From Berlin for Berlin: Gas turbine from Siemens plant in Moabit Highest efficiency through cogeneration Maximum fuel efficiency of 92 percent Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG today officially commissioned the Berlin-Marzahn combined heat and power (CHP) plant, which was built by Siemens Gas and Power as general contractor. The Governing Mayor of Berlin, Michael Müller, and the Vice President of the German Bundestag, Petra Pau, visited the natural gas-fired combined cycle plant with district heating extraction. Together with Tanja Wielgoß, CEO of Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG, and Jochen Eickholt, member of the Managing Board of Siemens Energy, they inaugurated the new power plant. The combined heat and power plant is one of the most efficient in Europe and makes an important contribution to Berlin's climate-neutral energy supply. The heart of the plant is a gas turbine manufactured at the Siemens plant in Berlin-Moabit. The new combined heat and power plant uses cogeneration and not only provides electricity for up to approximately one million inhabitants but can also supply around 150,000 Berlin households with environmentally friendly district heating. Together with the gas-fired plant in Klingenberg, it will form the backbone of the district heating supply in the eastern part of Berlin with a total of 450,000 households. The plant in Marzahn has an electrical capacity of approximately 260 megawatts (MW), a thermal capacity of around 230 MW and a maximum fuel efficiency of 92 percent. "Normally we deliver our gas turbines all over the world. Today, however, we are pleased to be able to commission a gas turbine from Berlin for Berlin," said Jochen Eickholt, member of the Managing Board of Siemens Energy. "Siemens Energy is also at home here in Berlin and we are an important employer here. With the new combined heat and power plant, almost a quarter of a million tons of CO2 are avoided each year, which corresponds to the typical emissions of around 125,000 cars. This is how we support the capital on its individual path to climate neutrality." "With the symbolic commissioning of the Marzahn power plant, we have taken a big step toward meeting the Paris climate protection goals by 2030 with the city of Berlin," explained Tanja Wielgoß, CEO of Vattenfall Wärme Berlin AG. “At the same time, a CHP plant like the one in Marzahn can play an important role in the currently hotly debated hydrogen strategy for Germany. The truth here, however, is that a lot of research and development still has to be done so that this technology is actually future-proof for both heating and power supply.” Contact Media Relations mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (111 KB) Download Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens group, which has been working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands of industry and society for more than 150 years. With planned stock listing, Siemens’ energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future. It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a comprehensive portfolio for utilities, independent power producers, transmission system operators, the oil and gas industry, and other energy-intensive industries. With its products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central and distributed thermal power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the energy transformation, including storage and sector-coupling solutions. The majority stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future-oriented portfolio. With its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, Siemens Energy will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers on their path to a more sustainable future. With around 90,000 employees worldwide, Siemens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and tomorrow. www.siemens.com . Read more Read less Read more February 25, 2025 Berlin Less CO 2 : Siemens Energy is supporting Taiwan’s energy transition July 25, 2024 Berlin Siemens Energy wins contract for large-scale hydrogen project from German utility EWE June 24, 2024 Berlin 1.5 billion US-Dollar order for Siemens Energy in Saudi Arabia: Efficient combined cycle power plants for the country's energy supply May 7, 2024 Berlin German businesses are taking a clear stand for diversity, openness and tolerance See all press releases Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025