Siemens HVDC power bridge will connect Crete with mainland Greece Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Siemens HVDC power bridge will connect Crete with mainland Greece Press release June 10, 2020 Munich Attica-Crete interconnection will ensure a more secure power supply and increase integration of renewable energy HVDC project will reduce half a million tons of CO2 emissions in first year of operation Total order volume for Siemens-led consortium €370 million A consortium led by Siemens Gas and Power (Siemens Energy) has been awarded a turnkey contract for two converter stations for the Greek high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) link that will connect Crete, Greece’s largest and most populous island, with the mainland of Greece. The project will enable an exchange of electricity of up to 1,000 megawatts (MW) to enhance reliability of the power supply and facilitate integration of renewable energy sources in the power grid. Customer is Ariadne Interconnection S.P.S.A., a wholly owned entity of the Greek independent power transmission operator IPTO. Commissioning of the interconnector is scheduled for mid-2023. Total order volume for the consortium is €370 million. Siemens will cooperate in a consortium with one of the leading construction companies in Greece, TERNA S.A. (Member of GEK TERNA Group). The EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) turnkey contract comprises of design, supply and installation of a 1,000 MW converter system at a direct-current voltage of ± 500 kilovolts, a gas-insulated switchgear (GIS) substation on Crete including 10-year service contracts for the GIS and Control and Protection systems of both the HVDC stations. The two converter stations – one located in the Attica region near Athens and the other near Damasta in the north of Crete – will be linked by a 330-kilometer-long direct-current (DC) power cable. Terna will be responsible for the HV distribution systems, the entire civil works and the erection of all equipment of the HVDC project. Currently, Crete’s energy supply mainly relies on outdated fossil-fueled power plants, that will be shut down by the end of 2022. The interconnector will facilitate the transmission of energy from renewable resources generated on the Greek mainland to the island. Thus, the interconnector will reduce carbon emissions by 500,000 tons in its first full year of operation. “The Attica-Crete interconnector is another example of the added-value that Siemens Energy can offer customers to advance the global energy transition. I’m very proud that our proven state-of-the-art HVDC technology will enable an increased integration of renewable energy, reduce reliance on fossil fuel, and enhance grid security," said Beatrix Natter, CEO of the Transmission Division at Siemens Energy. Both converter stations will use HVDC Plus voltage-sourced converters in a modular multilevel converter arrangement (VSC-MMC) that converts alternating current (AC) to direct current and DC back to AC on the other side of the link. The system combines the advantages of HVDC transmission with benefits like AC voltage control, black-start capability, minimized power transmission losses, grid stabilization and high availability. For further information on HVDC, please see HVDC Transmission Solutions Contact Siemens Energy Media Relations Team mediarelations@siemens-energy.com Download Press Release PDF Download PDF (268 KB) Download Siemens Gas and Power GmbH & Co. KG is the global energy business of the Siemens group, which has been working with its customers on solutions for the evolving demands of industry and society for more than 150 years. With planned stock listing, Siemens’ energy business will operate independently as Siemens Energy in the future. It will offer broad expertise across the entire energy value chain, along with a comprehensive portfolio for utilities, independent power producers, transmission system operators, the oil and gas industry, and other energy-intensive industries. With its products, solutions, systems, and services, Siemens Energy will address the extraction, processing, and transport of oil and gas as well as power and heat generation in central and distributed thermal power plants, and power transmission and technologies for the energy transformation, including storage and sector-coupling solutions. The majority stake in Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy will round out its future-oriented portfolio. With its commitment to leading the way in decarbonization of the global energy system, Siemens Energy will be a partner of choice for companies, governments, and customers on their path to a more sustainable future. With around 90,000 employees worldwide, Siemens Energy will help shape the energy systems of today and tomorrow. Read more Read less Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025