Integrally Geared Compressors Energy transition Five strategies Expand renewables Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Circuit breakers Compressors Control systems Disconnectors Electrical solutions Electrolyzer Energy storage FACTS Gas-insulated switchgear Gas turbines Generators Grid automation HVDC HV substations Offshore grid connections Overhead line solutions Power plants Rotating grid stabilizers Steam turbines Subsea Surge arresters Transformers Services Control system services Consultancy and advisory services Digital services Installation and commissioning Modernization and upgrade solutions Repairs and maintenance Service programs Spare Parts Sustainability certification Trainings Solutions by industry Renewables Power and heat generation Power transmission Oil and gas Pulp and paper Marine Data centers Solutions by use case Air separation Biomass Brownfield transformation Decarbonisation of power Distributed power generation Power-to-x Energy Storage Company About us Executive board Supervisory board Working with us Sustainability Innovations Compliance Publications Integrally geared compressors Proven, reliable and highly efficient integrally geared centrifugal compressors well suited to a wide range of applications From its invention in 1948, we have perfected the design and manufacture of integrally geared compressors. Today, more than 2,200 units have been installed globally proving their worth with a wide reference base in a wide range of industries and applications such as air separation and CO2 compression. Integrally geared compressor overview Integrally geared compressors are multi-shaft machines. Several pinion shafts with one or two impellers each are arranged around a central bull gear. For each pinion shaft a perfect combination of shaft speed and impeller size can be realized. All impellers are of overhung design and can be fitted with adjustable inlet guide vanes in front of each impeller. Inter-stage cooling of the gas stream can be done after each impeller discharge. The combination of these features allows for high volume flows, outstanding energy efficiency even under part load, all in a compact design. For small to medium size compressors, we offer a package design. The package can include the compressor, driver, process gas coolers, lube oil console, process piping, and all tubing and wiring. The package design leads to significantly reduced on-site installation time. For large-size units all main train components are delivered separately to site to be installed on a concrete foundation. Watch our webinar series Geared for success - Exploring integrally geared compressors In this webinar series our experts discuss integrally geared compressors and their applications, providing you with a deeper understanding of this compression technology and the advancements shaping the industry. Watch our webinar - IGCs & MVR - Powering the future of decarbonized heat Discover the newest advancements in integrally geared compressors for Mechanical Vapor Recompression (MVR) systems through our upcoming session, crafted for industry professionals and eager learners looking to stay informed about compression technology trends. On demand viewing here Integrally geared compressors overview webinar Integrally geared compressors for CO2 applications Maintaining integrally geared compressors Customized compressors Our customized line of integrally geared machines can accommodate up to four pinion shafts with up to eight impellers total resulting in impressive pressure ratios which can be achieved in a compact design. Compressors can be designed according to API 617 or API 672 and customer specifications. Driver options depend on process and energy resources and can be electric motor, steam turbine or gas turbine and are suitable for direct turbine-drive or even integrated expansion turbine design. Customized compressors with integrated radial expansion turbine A variant of the customized integrally geared compressor allows the integration of a single- or two-stage radial expansion turbine as a direct drive option for the compressor. This allows the direct recovery and conversion of energy from pressurized high temperature process gas streams into kinetic energy driving the compressor. Depending on the amount of available energy, this drive option can serve as sole drive, or as drive in combination with other drive options such as electric motor or steam turbine. Features Technical data Applications Features Outstanding impeller technology for high capacity and high efficiency Capability for combination of multiple processes Design options for any kind of gas Designed according to API 617, API 672 and customer specifications Up to eight impellers / stages Inter-cooling between stages All gear components designed and manufactured within our own supply chain Comprehensive driver options Gear options for cost optimized motor driver speed Technical data Volume flow rates up to 1,000,000 m³/h / 590,000 cfm Discharge pressure up to 250 bar / 2,900 psi Gear box ratings up to 85,000 kW / 87,000 hp Applications Air Separation Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage Compressed Air Energy Storage (CAES) Fertilizer Fuel Gas Heat Pumps and Refrigeration Metallurgy Petrochemicals Refining Synthetic fibers (PTA, DMT, Caprolactam) Standardized compressors Our standardized designs come with up to two pinion shafts with one or two impellers each. Standardized integrally geared machines come in two groups of frame sizes for 10,000-100,000 and 120,000-400,000m3/h capacity. These product lines are standardized versions of the customized integrally geared compressor series, the trusty workhorse of the air separation and process industry. The high degree of standardization results in lower capital costs and shorter delivery times as compared with fully customized compressors. The first group is available in nine frames (sizes 10-100) for volume flow rates between 10,000 and 100,000m 3 /h and can be packaged as compact single-lift units. The second group extends the available range of volume flow rates to between 120,000–400,000m3/h capacities with additional five frame sizes (165-400). Eighty percent of the machine is pre-engineered for consistency and repeatability. 20 percent of the machine can be customized for specific customer process needs. Frame sizes 10 - 100 Frame sizes 165 - 400 Frame sizes 10 - 100 Features Features Compact, single-lift unit Maximum performance due to predesigned gears, highest efficiency impellers, tailored aerodynamics, and predefined auxiliaries Up to four impellers Technical data Technical data Flow rates from 3,600 to 120,000 m³/h (2,120 to 70,680 cfm) Pressure ratio up to 20 Electric motor drive (fixed speed) Applications Applications Air separation Plant air Nitrogen (up to GC 50) Frame sizes 165 - 400 Features Features Efficiencies are comparable with customized series by use of same well proven flow components High flexibility derived from large number of fixed options Technical data Technical data Flow rates from 120,000 to 400,000 m³/h (70,680 to 235,600 cfm) Pressure ratio up to 6.5 Electric motor drive (fixed speed) Applications Applications Air separation (main air compressor) Single stage centrifugal compressors Our single stage centrifugal compressor is the perfect fit for atmospheric air compression at low pressure ratios. It covers a large flow range from small to very high volumes of up to 1.000.000 m3/h. This compressor uses well proven components from our integral geared compressor line and is designed in accordance with API 617. State-of-the-art aerodynamic parts allow a compact, single stage design. If necessary, an external gear box is used to match the driver speed. This modular design offers the advantage of an unchanged compressor design irrespective whether the machine is driven by a steam turbine, gas turbine or electric motor. Design Our single stage overhung compressor boasts a simple and robust design with well referenced components, smaller dimensions and less weight at the highest efficiency level, and low maintenance requirements. In case of higher pressure ratio requirements, the configuration comprises two single stage overhung machines driven by a double-ended steam turbine drive between the compressors. Features Technical data Applications Features Large flow range Simple, robust design in accordance with API 617 High efficiency Highest reliability due to well referenced components Low service intensity Easy maintenance Small dimensions Low weights Low spare part costs Technical data Volume flow rates up to 1,000,000 m³/h / 590,000 cfm Pressure ratio up to ~3 (up to ~6.5 in case of 2 units) Suitable for electric motor, steam turbine or gas turbine drive Applications Regeneration air applications in PDH (Propane DeHydrogenation) plants Blast furnace blowers (2 units) Fluid Catalytic Cracking (2 units) Main Air Compressor for Air Separation units (2 units) Integrally geared compressors for CO2 compression in CCUS applications - a whitepaper In this paper, we compare various CO2 compression technologies and highlight the advantages integrally geared compressors (IGCs) provide in terms of efficiency, costs, flexibility, reliability, and footprint. Download our white paper Decarbonized heat - Innovative technologies for decarbonizing industrial processes Steam Compression The technology that we apply for steam compression is integrally geared compressors. Read more in the article here. Decarbonizing industrial process heat through steam compression Turbo Heater Our Turbo Heater technology is specifically designed to deliver high-temperature process heat at industrial scale without combustion of fossil fuels. Download the flyer here. Rotating Olefins Cracker (ROC) The Rotating Olefins Cracker (ROC), jointly developed by Siemens Energy and Technip Energies, introduces a brand-new approach to olefins production - a game changing approach to decarbonize the olefin production process. Download the flyer here Mechanical Vapor Recompression (MVR) cycles open a new pathway for decarbonization Looking for an efficient and cost-effective way to recover waste heat in your industrial processes? For waste heat temperature levels from approximately 70°C (i.e. mid-temperature levels), MVR cycles provide an alternative to closed loop heat pumps for recovering waste heat, to produce low, medium, or high-pressure steam. MVR cycles use advanced compression technology to extract heat from industrial processes and convert it into usable energy. This technology is particularly useful for the downstream oil and gas, chemicals, pulp and paper, food and beverage, and aluminum industries, where waste heat is a byproduct of many processes. With MVR cycles, thermal energy from a mid-temperature waste stream is used to directly evaporate feedwater. The steam is then compressed to the required temperature and pressure level of the process. The entire latent heat for evaporation is provided by the free-of-charge waste heat. Only the sensible heat, which is significantly lower than the latent/evaporation heat, is provided in the form of compression. The steam can then be used for industrial purposes, either as a feedstock or as a heating medium, e.g. in the chemical industry or in pulp and paper. For application cases in which waste steam is present at lower than desired pressure levels, the steam can simply be compressed up to higher pressure and temperature levels, with the use of our multi-stage integrally geared steam compressors. Benefits: The MVR cycle can be applied for waste heat sources at temperatures as low as ~70°C and does not require the use of a refrigerant, which is often either fluorinated, flammable, or toxic. Compared to a closed loop heat pump, the MVR system can be designed in a very lean and compact way – oftentimes eliminating the need for an expansion valve, the flash tank, the refrigerant condenser, and some ancillary piping. COPs (Coefficients of Performance) of more than 7.0 are possible. This means only one seventh of the final heat output needs to be given in the form of electricity for the compressor drive; the remaining six sevenths are provided in the form of waste heat. With the use of our proven Integrally Geared Compressor (IGC) technology, CAPEX, OPEX and footprint can be optimized. Our IGCs can handle large volumetric flows up to 2.4 million m3/hr in one machine, enabling applications with 100+ MWth final heat output with only one machine. Final steam pressures up to 60 bar and temperatures up to 330°C are possible. Higher temperatures are possible as well with the use of a small downstream superheater. We have extensive steam know-how and experience inhouse via 10,000+ steam turbine references. Latest articles Delivering on the promise of CCUS CCUS will play a crucial role in driving a successful energy transition by enabling decarbonization of industries that are difficult to fully electrify or that rely heavily.... Read more Compressors for Large-Scale Direct Air Capture Plant Siemens Energy will supply a motor-driven STC-GV(40-5) 13,000-hp (9698-kW), fully modular, wet gas compressor package and a motor-driven STC-GV(2-6-H), 8500-hp (6341-kW), dry gas compressor for the DAC plant. Read more The 'Green New Era' for Turbomachinery Carbon capture utilization, and storage technologies are set to play a diverse role in net-zero emissions goals. Read more Compression Down Under As the world's largest exporter of LNG, and a hub for renewable energy, Australia is in a....... Read more Old Technology, New Application Historically, axial compressors have been the technology of choice for meeting high-flow..... Read more Compressors are hydrogen 'colour blind' Modern reciprocating compressors can reach a given compression ratio in fewer stages than..... Read more Get answers: FAQs on integrally geared compressors What are integrally geared compressors? Integrally geared compressors are centrifugal turbo compressors where the stages are arranged around a central bull gear. Each stage operates at its optimal speed, which improves efficiency and performance. What are the disadvantages of an integrally geared compressor? The disadvantages of an integrally geared compressor include a higher number of seals as each impeller requires one seal, which can increase costs for complex seal requirements. Furthermore, integrally geared compressors emit more noise compared to single shaft compressors, due to the high tip speeds. What are the advantages of an integrally geared compressor? Integrally geared compressors offer a high power density and efficiency resulting from their optimization of impeller speed and possibility for intercooling. This offers an OPEX and an CAPEX advantage in several key applications of compression. What is the pressure ratio for an integrally geared compressor? The pressure ratio for an integrally geared compressor varies depending on the specific design and application, but generally the compressor offers higher-pressure ratios compared to single shaft turbo compressors. Get in touch with us For information and questions, our support team is available 24/7 to assist you in English, Spanish, and German. First name Last name Email Phone number Company name Country/region Country/region Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Ascension Island Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius & Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Channel Islands Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Congo Congo, Democratic Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curacao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic East Timor Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See / Vatican City Honduras Hong Kong, China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Côte d’Ivoire Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Korea, Democratic People's Rep Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macau, China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Islands Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia/South Sandwich South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka St. Barts St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Martin St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and Grenadines Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands Eswatini Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine Union of the Comoros United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay US Minor Outlying Islands USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands (British) Virgin Islands (U.S.) Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Job role Job role Corporate Engineering Operations/maintenance Procurement/purchasing Administrative Business development/sales Consulting Finance Human resources IT Legal Marketing Media/communication Product management Production Project management Quality assurance Research/student Sustainability Facility management Investor relations/analyst Other Is your inquiry related to installed equipment? Yes No Industry (Select up to three) Industry (Select up to three) Automotive Banking, financial institutions, and insurances Buildings and construction Cement Ceramic and glass Chemicals Chemicals - biochemicals Chemicals - petrochemicals Chemicals - rubber and plastics Conventional power generation Data center Food and beverage Healthcare Industrial gases and air separation Maritime Mining, metals and minerals Mobility and transport infrastructure Oil and gas downstream Oil and gas midstream Oil and gas upstream Other Power distribution Power transmission Power-to-X and e-fuels Public sector Pulp and paper Renewable power generation Research and education Rubber and plastics Semiconductor Water and wastewater management Please let us know how we can help you Marketing consent I would like to receive marketing information from Siemens Energy based on my personal interests and give my consent as described in detail here. Send Stay in Touch Energy Transition Five strategies Expand renewables​ Transform conventional power Strengthen electrical grids Drive industry decarbonization Secure supply chains Products and Services Products Services Solutions by industry Solutions by usecase Trainings Company​ About us Executive Board Supervisory Board Working with us Sustainability Innovation Compliance Publications Career Supplier Contact Reporting channels Subscribe to our newsletter Siemens Energy stories Siemens Gamesa Harness the power of wind with our wind power business Siemens Gamesa. Visit website Corporate information Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Use U.S. Legal Notice Siemens Energy is a trademark licensed by Siemens AG. © Siemens Energy, 2025